{"id": "57125214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57125214", "title": "A Dialogue on Personal Identity and Immortality", "text": "A Dialogue on Personal Identity and Immortality\n\nA Dialogue on Personal Identity and Immortality is a book by the philosopher John Perry.\nIt has been translated into Spanish, Chinese, Persian and Korean.\n\nIt deals with standard problems in the theory of personal identity in the form of a dialogue between a terminally ill university professor at a small Midwestern college, Gretchen Weirob, and her two friends, Sam Miller and Dave Cohen. The views represented include those of Bernard Williams, John Locke, and Derek Parfit. The format of associating different philosophical positions with different characters in a dialogue recalls David Hume's \"Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion\". \n\n"}
{"id": "2755291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2755291", "title": "Acotyledon", "text": "Acotyledon\n\nAcotyledon is used to refer to seed plants or spermatophytes that lack cotyledons, such as orchids and dodder. Orchid seeds are tiny with underdeveloped embryos. They depend on mycorrhizal fungi for their early nutrition so are myco-heterotrophs at that stage.\n\nAlthough some authors, especially in the 19th century and earlier, use the word acotyledon to include plants which have no cotyledons because they lack seeds entirely (such as ferns and mosses), others restrict the term to plants which have seeds but no cotyledons.\n\nFlowering plants or angiosperms are divided into two large groups. Monocotyledons or monocots have one seed lobe, which is often modified to absorb stored nutrients from the seed so never emerges from the seed or becomes photosynthetic. Dicotyledons or dicots have two cotyledons and often germinate to produce two leaf-like cotyledons. Conifers and other gymnosperms lack flowers but may have two or more cotyledons in the seedling.\n"}
{"id": "1091312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1091312", "title": "Al-Musta'sim", "text": "Al-Musta'sim\n\nAl-Musta'sim Billah (full name: al-Musta'sim-Billah Abu-Ahmad Abdullah bin al-Mustansir-Billah; ; 1213 – February 20, 1258) was the last Abbasid Caliph in Baghdad; he ruled from 1242 until his death.\n\nAl-Musta'sim succeeded his father in late 1242.\n\nHe is noted for his opposition to the rise of Shajar al-Durr to the Egyptian throne during the Seventh Crusade. He sent a message from Baghdad to the Mamluks in Egypt that said: \"If you do not have men there tell us so we can send you men.\" However, Al-Musta'sim had to face the greatest menace against the caliphate since its establishment in 632: the invasion of the Mongol forces that, under Hulagu Khan, had already wiped out any resistance in Transoxiana and Khorasan. In 1255/1256 Hulagu forced the Abbasid to lend their forces for the campaign against Alamut.\n\nIn 1258, Hulagu invaded the Abbasid domain, which then consisted of only Baghdad, its immediate surroundings, and southern Iraq. In his campaign to conquer Baghdad, Hulagu Khan had several columns advance simultaneously on the city, and laid siege to it. The Mongols kept the people of Abbasid Caliphate in their capital and executed those who tried to flee.\n\nBaghdad was sacked on February 10 and the caliph was killed by Hulagu Khan soon afterward. It is reckoned that the Mongols did not want to shed \"royal blood\", so they wrapped him in a rug and trampled him to death with their horses. Some of his sons were massacred as well; one of the surviving sons was sent as a prisoner to Mongolia, where Mongolian historians report he married and fathered children, but played no role in Islam thereafter.\n\n\"The Travels of Marco Polo\" reports that upon finding the caliph's great stores of treasure which could have been spent on the defense of his realm, Hulagu Khan locked him in his treasure room without food or water, telling him \"eat of thy treasure as much as thou wilt, since thou art so fond of it.\"\n\nThe Mamluk Sultans and Syria later appointed an Abbasid Caliph in Cairo, but they were even more symbolic than the by-now marginalized Abbasid Caliphs in Baghdad. Even though they kept the title for about 250 years more, other than installing the Sultan in ceremonies, these Caliphs had little importance. After the Ottomans conquered Egypt in 1517, the Abbasid Caliph of Egypt, Al-Mutawakkil III was transported to Constantinople, and Sultan Selim I announced himself to be a Caliph.\n\n"}
{"id": "42390595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42390595", "title": "Alfred the Gorilla", "text": "Alfred the Gorilla\n\nAlfred the Gorilla ( – 9 March 1948) arrived in Bristol Zoo, in England, in 1930 and became a popular attraction and animal celebrity. His fame grew to international proportions during World War II and after his death he remained an important mascot for the city of Bristol.\n\nAlfred's distinct personality led to his popularity amongst younger visitors and he quickly became one of the zoo's main attractions. His profile was further increased during World War II when visiting soldiers took images and stories of Alfred back to their home countries with articles about him appearing in the US and Australian press. After Alfred died in 1948, his taxidermic form was put on display in Bristol City Museum and Art Gallery where he continued to act as a mascot for the city. Alfred's form was stolen from the museum in 1956 and was missing for a weekend before he was discovered and returned, a mystery that remained unsolved until the death of one of the perpetrators in 2010. He remains on display in Bristol today and served as part of the inspiration for the popular Wow! Gorillas trail in 2012.\n\nBristol's connection with gorillas dates back to the first gorilla bones ever brought to Britain. After being sent to Liberia as a missionary in 1836, the American naturalist Dr. Thomas Savage wrote to Professor Richard Owen in London, declaring,\n\n\" 'I have found the existence of an animal of extraordinary character in this locality, and which I have reason to believe is unknown to the naturalist. As yet I have been unable to obtain more than a part of a skeleton.' \"\n\nThe letter included a sketch of a skull which Savage speculated might be related to a chimpanzee. Savage also wrote to Samuel Stutchbury of the Bristol Institution, a forerunner of the Bristol Museum and Art Gallery. Stutchbury had more remains sought out and in 1847 Captain George Wagstaff obtained three skulls from the Gabon River in West Africa. When these arrived in Bristol, Stutchbury sent them to Owen who published a paper, on the specimens proposing to call the species Troglodytes Savagei after Thomas Savage. By the time the full paper was published in 1849, however, Dr. Jeffries Wyman of Harvard had already published a description of the bones with Savage's own preferred name of \"Troglodytes gorilla\". The skulls were returned to Stutchbury and can be found in Bristol Museum's collection today.\n\nThe first living gorilla reached Europe in the 1880s, although a ‘very unusual chimpanzee’ exhibited by a travelling showman in England in 1860 was later thought to be gorilla. Most of the early gorillas sent to Europe died within a couple of years, often from lung disease. One of the longest lived resided at Breslau Zoo and reached the age of seven. The first living gorilla to reach Bristol Zoo, purchased for £75, arrived in 1900 but died after a short period.\n\nAlfred was initially found by an Expedition from the American Museum of Natural History, New York and Columbia University in 1928 in what was then Belgian Congo. The expedition members were told that a pair of gorillas had been shot for ‘raiding’ a farmer's field for food, afterwards a baby was discovered and suckled by a local woman. The baby gorilla was later sold to a Greek merchant and taken to the town of Mbalmayo in modern-day Cameroon, where the expedition encountered him playing in the streets. He was described by the Expedition as ‘the liveliest specimen of his kind we had ever seen’.\n\nIn 1930 Alfred was sold to an Italian who, after bringing him to Europe, sold him on to an animal dealer. Bristol Zoo, already successful in rearing chimpanzees, acquired Alfred for £350. Alfred spent a few months housed in Rotterdam in 1930 before continuing to Bristol Zoo. Alfred was named after Alfred Mosely, Companion of Honour,a benefactor of the zoo, it was his gift to the Nation Although during his life he was thought to be a mountain gorilla, it is more likely that he was a western lowland gorilla.\n\nAlfred arrived at Bristol Zoo on 5 September 1930, which was thereafter celebrated as his birthday. His cage was positioned just inside one of the entrances and this prominent position, alongside his vibrant personality, meant that he quickly became one of the Zoo's main attractions. During his first two years at the zoo, Alfred regularly took walks around the grounds with his keeper Frank Guise. He did this on the end of a long collar and chain and was well known for wearing woollen jumpers.\n\nDuring his third year at the zoo Alfred had grown to weigh eight stones. His increasing strength had become a concern to his keepers and when he broke a photographer's tripod during his birthday celebrations, his walks around the zoo were curtailed. Alfred also caught whooping cough during these early years but received medical help. This remained the only significant illness that he contracted until the end of his life.\n\nDespite being confined to his enclosure Alfred continued to be a popular attraction and he was featured beating his breast on a radio broadcast from the zoo in 1937. Alfred became the oldest gorilla to survive in captivity in 1938 and later that year visitors were invited to guess his weight on a specially constructed machine. The closest guess the public managed was 20 stones, with Alfred actually coming in at 26 stones, four pounds. His diet was completely vegetarian which was an innovation in the practice of keeping captive gorillas and cost the zoo just £3 a week.\n\nAlfred's status at the zoo led to him becoming something of a local celebrity with visitors, especially with children. Their recollections often refer to Alfred as having a number of distinct character traits and quirks that made up his personality. On occasion he would approach the children who stood around his cage and make what they perceived as friendly gestures and conversations with them.\n\nAlthough Alfred's habits could occasionally be perceived as offensive by some of the zoo's visitors, many of the children who saw him regularly formed a deep bond with him. One visitor even going as far as to say that because of Alfred's ruder habits, he both ‘loved and hated him’ at the same time. Others recall simply enjoying the gorilla's company and would sit beside the cage for hours just to be close to him. His status as one of the zoo's man in attractions is reflected by the fact that many of them recall that rather than ‘going to the zoo’, they would often think of their visits as ‘going to see Alfie’.\n\nOther visitors made regular trips to the zoo on their way through Bristol to other destinations. One woman from the West Midlands recalls that they would drop in on the gorilla every year on their way to a campsite in Somerset. She also notes Alfred's habit of wearing a large hessian sack like a holiday maker wearing a handkerchief on their head which always amused her.\n\nAlfred was allegedly offended by Rosie the Elephant being allowed to walk past his enclosure which would cause him to sulk. He also allegedly harboured a dislike of bearded men, double decker buses and aeroplanes. This stood in contrast for the affection he reciprocated towards his early keepers Frank Guise and Bert Jones, as well as to the sparrows who visited his enclosure to pick at breadcrumbs. He would sometimes be tickled by his keeper and a crowd would gather to watch. As fascism rose in Europe Alfred acquired the nickname, the ‘Dictator of Bristol Zoo’.\n\nAlfred was also fond of making and throwing snowballs. At the age of three years he can be seen doing just that in the company of two young children in a photo from January 1931. His expertise at throwing however, was not limited to snowballs. Alfred, one visitor recalled, 'used to express his opinion of the human race by picking up large lumps of his droppings and hurling them accurately at the spectators in front of his cage. It was a delight for small schoolboys to be able to act as cheerleaders to this somewhat one-sided contest’. Alfred also had a habit of urinating on visitors after climbing the bars of his cage. One child was beckoned over by the gorilla and when she approached he urinated on her head, the story is still remembered by her grandchildren today who often ask to see the gorilla who ‘did a wee on great grandma’ when they visit the museum. Another writer described how Alfred was her favourite animal at the zoo and she has many memories but her favourite is of her aunt eating plums in front of Alfred. He kept asking her for some and when she simply laughed at him he went to the back of his cage and threw his dung at her. She continued to laugh and not feed him so he climbed the bars of his cage and urinated on her. The writer got in trouble for telling her aunt that the incident was her fault and she should have given Alfred the plums. Alfred was also fond of playing hide and seek with visitors. One visitor recalled how she once got her head stuck in the bars of Alfred's cage when she was ten. She was later rescued by a St. Johns ambulance worker. ‘How did Alfred react to my dilemma’, she recounted, ‘he just sat in the corner of his cage clapping his hands loudly and laughing’. She now tells the story to her grandchildren when they visit the zoo.\n\nAlthough some animals were moved from the zoo during the war years, Alfred remained in Bristol. His diet of fruit and vegetables became stretched however, and the zoo took to seeking sponsors in order to feed its animals. Alfred was sponsored by Albert Glisten, Fellow of the Zoological Society and Chairman of Southend United Football Club. The presence of US Army troops in Bristol allowed Alfred's popularity to spread further as soldiers sent images and stories featuring the gorilla across the Atlantic. Articles concerning Alfred were reproduced in American newspapers and he retained his celebrity status throughout the war. One visitor to the museum recalled that her late great-great-uncle Bill was Alfred's keeper in the 1940s. Alfred was fond of Bill and would comb his keeper's hair and eat chocolate from his teeth. Bill would occasionally be picked up and taken to the zoo on his days off as Alfred would sometimes not go into his night cage without him. She also noted the gorilla's dislike of bombs and anti aircraft guns.\n\nThe Home Guard of the 11th Battalion, Gloucestershire Regiment was based in the zoo's cafeteria during World War Two. One member based at the zoo recalled how they were not allowed to march and parade in front of Alfred's cage lest he become aggressive. At the time the troops discussed the causes of this, musing that it might be that their uniforms reminded Alfred of other primates. On reflection, as the keepers also wore uniforms, the writer concluded that it was more likely the marching itself which upset the gorilla. He also recalled how night watch at the zoo was his scariest experience during his time in the Home Guard. On the one hand, he was worried about Germans appearing out of the dark but he was equally concerned that if a bomb dropped near the zoo the animals might escape from their cages. ‘Often, 17 year olds like myself exchanged our fears about what one would do if, spare the thought, in such an event the monstrous form of Alfred were to lumber forward out of the darkness’, he recalled, ‘probably run towards the enemy!’ he concluded.\n\nIn 1946 Alfred became sluggish and overweight before being diagnosed with thyroid deficiency. He recovered from the illness after treatment however, and later returned to his former strength.\n\nAlfred died on 10 March 1948. The press at the time speculated that ‘his pet hate got him in the end’, linking Alfred's dislike of aeroplanes with the passage of one over the zoo shortly before his death. The actual cause of his demise was tuberculosis which he contracted a year before and despite his keepers best efforts, he had been unable to recover. His death was mourned by many of the regular visitors to the zoo, some of whom were even inspired to compose poems in his honour.\n\nAfter Alfred's death gorillas were kept almost continuously at the zoo until the mid-1990s. An article in the Western Daily Press noted the departure of two gorillas in 1995 breaking this pattern of keeping gorillas at the zoo. The departing gorillas were named Diana and Jeremy, aged 23 and 12 respectively. They were sent to London Zoo to live with another female named Zaire. The author noted that the conditions in Bristol's ape house had been criticised, prompting a £5 million redevelopment of the building in order for it to house small animals. A new ape house, the article declared, was not likely to appear for at least four years and the gorillas were unlikely to return, much to the disappointment of the keeper Mike Colbourne.\n\nFollowing his death Alfred was mounted by the taxidermists Rowland Ward of London in a pose representing him on all fours. He was returned to Bristol City Museum and was put on display near the heavily frequented museum cafe. His bones and organs were sent to the Anatomy Department at Bristol University.\n\nAt first, Alfred's interpretation in the museum was very minimal, detailing only a few key pieces of information about the gorilla. Despite this, his position near the cafe, combined with the fame he had been accorded during his life, made him one of the most visited and celebrated exhibits. Many of those who saw Alfred in the zoo as children continued to visit him once he became an exhibit in the museum. The feelings that they had for him when he was alive often carried over into his second ‘life’ as an exhibit, maintaining and sustaining his fame. Later encounters with his taxidermic form were particularly memorable for those who could remember Alfred from his time at the zoo. One visitor, for example, encountered the gorilla unexpectedly when visiting her granddaughter at Bristol University more than forty years after Alfred's demise.\n\nAlfred was moved in 1988 to the World Wildlife gallery on the museum's first floor where his exhibit was now positioned alongside a number of different specimens and displays. His interpretation was expanded during this move and he began to appear more and more on publicity material for the museum in photographs as well as in cartoon form. These moves allowed Alfred's form to become a part of a larger narrative on biology and conservation whilst retaining his status as a celebrated local mascot and historical object.\n\nIn 1956 Alfred went missing from the museum after being stolen by a group of students as a prank. After three days he was found and returned to his case although the full story surrounding the theft took more than fifty years to come to light.\n\nIn 1993 people were asked to send in their memories about Alfred as part of a competition to win four free tickets to Bristol Zoo. This was part of the celebrations held to mark the fiftieth anniversary of Alfred's death which also included a series of talks and tours at the museum. The letters that were received added a great deal of anecdotal information about Alfred to the museum's archive\n\nAlfred's eightieth birthday was celebrated at the museum in 2010 with a series of activities and events. Children drew him birthday cards showing the gorilla's continuing public appeal as part of the history of Bristol and as a curiously for younger visitors to the museum. A bust of Alfred's head is also on display at Bristol's M Shed museum after formerly being displayed at the entrance to the gorilla enclosure at Bristol Zoo.\n\nAlfred remains a prominent figure in the museum's collection appearing regularly in guides, trails and children's events. Alfred has also featured in a several films and plays. Tom Kelpie's award-winning short film spoof Who Stuffed Alfred the Gorilla as well as the original footage filmed by the American exhibition who first discover him playing the streets of Mbalmayo. Nick Jones and Toby Lucas also made a short documentary on Alfred in 2008.\n\nAlfred featured in Peter Nichols’ 1979 light comedy Born in the Gardens. One of Alfred's kidnappers, Ron Morgan, also allegedly wrote a play about the incident.\n\nAlfred's life and status are also often still used to promote discussion regarding the history and evolution of conservation techniques and the practice of keeping primates in captivity.\n\nAlfred's status as a mascot for Bristol was further cemented in 2011 when the Wow! Gorillas project was launched across the city to raise awareness about the extinction crisis facing primates. The project was also held to mark the 175th anniversary of Bristol Zoo and raised over £420,000 for charity.\n"}
{"id": "2275708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2275708", "title": "Authoritarian personality", "text": "Authoritarian personality\n\nAuthoritarian personality is a state of mind or attitude characterized by belief in absolute obedience or submission to someone else’s authority, as well as the administration of that belief through the oppression of one's subordinates. It usually applies to individuals who are known or viewed as having an authoritarian, strict, or oppressive personality towards subordinates.\n\nTheodor W. Adorno, Else Frenkel-Brunswik, Daniel Levinson, and Nevitt Sanford theorized in their 1950 book, \"The Authoritarian Personality\", about a personality type that involved the \"potentially fascistic individual\". They labeled it the \"authoritarian personality\" based on earlier writings by Erich Fromm that used this term. Because the historical influences for their theory included the rise of fascism in the 1930s, World War II, and the Holocaust, a main component of the \"authoritarian personality\" is being susceptible to antisemitic ideology and anti-democratic political beliefs. Their large body of research (known as the Berkeley studies) focused mainly on prejudice within a psychoanalytic/psychosocial theoretical framework (i.e., Freudian and Frommian).\n\nAdorno et al. (1950) viewed the authoritarian personality as having a strict superego that controls a weak ego unable to cope with strong id impulses. The resulting intrapsychic conflicts cause personal insecurities, resulting in that person's superego to adhere to externally imposed conventional norms (conventionalism), and to the authorities who impose these norms (authoritarian submission). The ego-defense mechanism of projection occurs as indicated when that person avoids self-reference of the anxiety-producing id impulse, by displaying them onto \"inferior\" minority groups in the given culture (projectivity), with associated beliefs that are highly evaluative (power and toughness), and rigid (stereotypy). Additionally, there is a cynical view of humanity and a need for power and toughness resulting from the anxieties produced by perceived lapses in society's conventional norms (destructiveness and cynicism). Other characteristics of this personality type are a general tendency to focus upon those who violate conventional values and act harshly towards them (authoritarian aggression), a general opposition to subjective or imaginative tendencies (anti-intraception), a tendency to believe in mystic determination (superstition), and finally, an exaggerated concern with promiscuity.\nIn regards to child development, the formation of the authoritarian type occurs within the first few years of the person's life, strongly shaped by the parents and family structure. \"Hierarchical, authoritarian, exploitative\" parent-child relationships may result in this personality type (Adorno et al., 1950, pp. 482–484). Parents who have a need for domination, and who dominate and threaten the child harshly, and demand obedience to conventional behaviors with threats, foster the characteristics of this personality. In addition, the parents have a preoccupation with social status, and communicate this to the child in terms of rigid and externalized rules. The child then suffers from suppressed feelings of resentment and aggression towards the parents, who are instead, idealized with reverence.\n\nAlfred Adler provided another perspective, linking the \"will to power over others\" as a central neurotic trait, usually emerging as aggressive over-compensation for felt and dreaded feelings of inferiority and insignificance. According to this view, the authoritarian's need to maintain control and prove superiority over others is rooted in a worldview populated by enemies and empty of equality, empathy, and mutual benefit.\n\nThese researchers' most noteworthy measurement for authoritarianism is the \"F-scale\", designed to tap a set of beliefs thought to be associated with authoritarianism without the need for specific out-groups indicated. Kirscht and Dillehay (1967) outlined several problems with the Berkeley studies, including response bias. Response bias results from the F scale being uniformly worded in a confirming direction. Hence, if one tends to respond in agreement with items, regardless of their content, one is rated as an authoritarian by such a test. Several studies have shown that more variance of the F scale can be explained by response bias than the content of the items (Kirscht & Dillehay, 1967).\n\nActual assessment of 16 Nazi criminals at Nuremberg trials (reported in Zillmer, \"et al.\", 1995) conducted by clinicians using the Rorschach inkblots, and in one study, the F scale for authoritarianism, found that these ex-Nazis score high on three dimensions (anti-intraception, superstition and stereotyping, and projectivity), but not all nine dimensions as the theory predicted.\n\nOne of the first applications of the authoritarian scales in academia was by Stern and colleagues, in the early 1950s, at the University of Chicago (as reported in Wiggins, 1980). The hypothesized prediction was that \"authoritarian\" students would have difficulty in the sciences and humanities, and use of an attitudinal scale was a successful predictor.\n\nSoon after the publication of \"The Authoritarian Personality\", the theory became the subject of many criticisms. Theoretical problems involved the psychoanalytic interpretation of personality, and methodological problems focused on the inadequacies of the F-scale. Another criticism is that the theory of the Berkeley group insinuates that authoritarianism exists only on the right of the political spectrum. As a result, some have claimed that the theory is corrupted by political bias. Kreml found that although there were stylistic similarities between authoritarians and anti-authoritarians (dogmatism, rigidity, etc.), construct variables like a) the relative need for order, b) the relative need for power, c) rejection or acceptance of impulse, and d) extroversion versus introversion, differentiated the two types and could underpin a full-spectrum psycho-political theory.\n\nWiggins provided an insightful explanation of how the authoritarian construct is an example of the synthetic approach to personality assessment. In short, in the synthetic approach, the assumption is that those with authoritarian personality characteristics are assessed with researcher's intuitive model of what characteristics fit the criterion role requirements of the predicted situation (support of Fascism). Hence, it is not a completely empirical approach to prediction, but rather based on \"arm chair\" situational analysis of the criteria, and intuited psychological characteristics to be assessed that fit the situation. More recently, Jost, Glaser, Kruglanski, and Sulloway (2003) have presented how the traditional research in authoritarianism or conservatism has confounded the psychological variables (e.g., personality characteristics) with the political criteria (conservative attitudes). Hence the scales measuring individual differences on authoritarianism often include the criteria attitudinal statements of political ideologies.\n\nAlthough the authoritarian is a personality construct, Adorno et al. (1950) proposed that the social environment influenced the expression of prejudice expressed, based upon the \"climate of opinion\" that exists at the time. Hence, ideological beliefs created within the culture and other social forces shape the prejudices of the given authoritarian individual. However, as noted by Taylor (1998), this hypothesized interaction of society and the individual is lost to most of the subsequent research that implemented the F scale in differential psychological studies. Given the science of personality assessment, the variety of methods Adorno, \"et al.\" used are now unsupported, and might explain that lack of empirical studies using the F scale or the other scales developed by Adorno \"et al.\" in subsequent research. An example of the social environment impact is presented by Gibb (1969) in his critique of personality traits and leadership, where a study by Katz suggested that the social situation can override personality differences. In the study, groups of black and white students were formed. Some mixed racial groups had students scoring high authoritarian F scores, and in other mixed groups, low F score students. Comparisons of high authoritarian white students to those not scoring authoritarian indicated that the former student type were more cooperative and less willing to endorse stereotypes towards blacks. Situational norms against prejudicial perceptions might have influenced authoritarian students to act less prejudicial in order to conform to the prescribed norm.\n\nAfter extensive questionnaire research and statistical analysis, Canadian psychologist Bob Altemeyer found in 1981 that only three of the original nine hypothesized components of the model correlated together: authoritarian submission, authoritarian aggression, and conventionalism. Almeyer added: \"The reader familiar with the matter knows that most these criticisms [of the \"Authoritarian Personality\"] are over 25 years old, and now they might be considered little more than flaying a dead horse. Unfortunately the flaying is necessary, for the horse is not dead, but still trotting around—in various introductory psychology and developmental psychology textbooks, for example.\n\nBob Altemeyer conducted a series of studies on what he labeled right-wing authoritarianism (RWA), and presents the most recent analysis of this personality type. The focus of RWA research is political preferences as measured through surveys, that suggest three tendencies as noted in attitudinal clusters. These are: 1) submission to legitimate authorities; 2) aggression towards sanctioned targeted minority groups; and 3) adherence to values and beliefs perceived as endorsed by followed leadership. McCrae & Costa (1997) report that the big 5 dimension of openness to experience is negatively correlated to RWA (r=-0.57) as measured by the NEO-PI-R Openness scale.\n\nLater, Jost, Glaser, Kruglanski, and Sulloway (2003) have proposed that authoritarianism, RWA and other similar constructs of political conservatism are a form of motivated social cognition. These researchers propose that conservatism has characteristics similar to those of authoritarianism, with resistance to change, and justification for inequality as the core components. In addition, conservative individuals have needs to manage uncertainty and threat with both situational motives (e.g., striving for security and dominance in social hierarchies) and dispositional motives (e.g., terror management and self-esteem). Despite its methodological deficiencies, the theory of the authoritarian personality has had a major influence on research in political, personality, and social psychology.\n\nThe research on social cognition and motivation is continued by John Duckitt and Chris Sibley. They distinguish two different aspects of world views that lead to two different kinds of authoritarianism. A view of the social world as dangerous and threatening leads to right wing authoritarianism, while the view of the world as a ruthlessly competitive jungle in which the strong win and the weak lose leads to social dominance orientation.\n\nA recent reinterpretation called regality theory is based on evolutionary psychology. Regality theory sees the authoritarian attitude as a reaction to perceived collective danger. It is argued that this theory adds an evolutionary level of analysis and avoids the political bias that authoritarianism theory is often accused of.\n\n"}
{"id": "35911445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35911445", "title": "Bio Base Europe", "text": "Bio Base Europe\n\nBio Base Europe is an innovation and training center for the biobased economy. It is a platform that supports the development of sustainable, biobased products such as bio-chemicals, bio-plastics, bio-materials, bio-detergents, bio-energy, etc. from renewable biomass resources. Its mission is to stimulate sustainable development and economic growth by facilitating R&D and training for biobased process development. It consists of a Pilot Plant for the biobased economy located in the port of Ghent (Belgium), and a Training Center for the biobased economy in Terneuzen (Netherlands).\n\nOn December 12, 2008, Europe, Flanders and the Netherlands have allocated €21 million to the Interreg IV project Bio Base Europe. Bio Base Europe is the largest Interreg project ever granted to the Dutch-Flemish border region. The founding fathers are Ghent Bio-Energy Valley and Bio Park Terneuzen. In 2009, Bio Base Europe has been awarded the Sail of Papenburg prize for best innovative project by the Association of European Border Regions (AEBR).\n\nBio Base Europe Pilot Plant is a pilot test facility for the biobased economy, built with the aim to close the gap between scientific feasibility and industrial application. It operates from kg to ton scale. The pilot plant hosts a range of process equipment to scale up biobased processes to industrial scale. Tests done in the pilot plant enable to assess operating costs, specific strengths and weaknesses of new biobased processes before costly, large-scale investments in production plant facilities are made. Bio Base Europe Pilot Plant has no industrial shareholders, and operates according to the open innovation service model. Companies and research centres throughout the world that are active in the biobased economy can access these facilities for their technological developments.\n\nThe processes done in the pilot plant can be divided into the following categories\n\n1. Biorefining: Biomass fractionation and pretreatment\n\n2. Industrial biotechnology\n\n3. Green chemistry\n\n4. Downstream processing\n\nIn the biorefining operations, biomass can be fractionated in its various parts. These operations involve a.o. milling and pulping, dispersion, homogenizing, physical separation such as centrifugation and decantation, filtration including dead end particulate filtration and cross flow membrane filtration,… Biomass can also be pretreated prior to enzymatic hydrolysis, involving pulping and homogenisation reactions, jet cooking, acid or alcaline treatment, steam explosion, etc. \nWhite or industrial biotechnology processes involves the use of microorganisms and their enzymes in so-called fermentation processes or biocatalytic reactions. Fermentations can be performed from 1 to 15.000 litre scale and involve both batch, fed batch or continuous operations. Reactors for enzymatic reactions are present that can be used with either water of organic solvents.\nGreen chemistry is performed in explosion proof installations such as glass-lined chemical reactors (1 - 6.000 l scale) that are suited to perform under vacuum or under pressure. The Bio Base Europe Pilot Plant is also equipped with filter dryers for solvent extraction of liquids and solids.\nDownstream processing for the recovery of pure products after biochemical or chemical conversion involves various equipment for extraction, evaporation, demineralization, ion exchange, carbon treatment, crystallization, spray drying, lyophilisation, etc.\n\nContinuous process lines can be built up by connecting unit operations with mobile positive and centrifugal pumps, heat exchangers, dosing pumps, flexible and fixed piping and instrumentation.\n\nThe Bio Base Europe Training Center is an education, network and exhibition center promoting the development of a sustainable biobased economy. It offers general and company-specific training and connects closely with the market demand.\n\nThe Bio Base Europe Training Center works according to the one-stop-shop concept. The training center offers companies a wide range of trainings for their process operators and technical staff. For example, a training portfolio can be used by logging into a web-based learning management system. Furthermore, specific training and a full training program for technical staff are offered and support in hiring new process operators can be obtained. In addition, the Bio Base Europe Training Center is developing dynamic process simulators which can be used for the training of operators.\n\n"}
{"id": "4816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4816", "title": "Biosphere", "text": "Biosphere\n\nThe biosphere (from Greek βίος \"bíos\" \"life\" and σφαῖρα \"sphaira\" \"sphere\") also known as the ecosphere (from Greek οἶκος \"oîkos\" \"environment\" and σφαῖρα), is the worldwide sum of all ecosystems. It can also be termed the zone of life on Earth, a closed system (apart from solar and cosmic radiation and heat from the interior \nof the Earth), and largely self-regulating. By the most general biophysiological definition, the biosphere is the global ecological system integrating all living beings and their relationships, including their interaction with the elements of the lithosphere, geosphere, hydrosphere, and atmosphere. The biosphere is postulated to have evolved, beginning with a process of biopoiesis (life created naturally from non-living matter, such as simple organic compounds) or biogenesis (life created from living matter), at least some 3.5 billion years ago.\n\nIn a general sense, biospheres are any closed, self-regulating systems containing ecosystems. This includes artificial biospheres such as Biosphere 2 and BIOS-3, and potentially ones on other planets or moons.\n\nThe term \"biosphere\" was coined by geologist Eduard Suess in 1875, which he defined as the place on Earth's surface where life dwells.\n\nWhile the concept has a geological origin, it is an indication of the effect of both Charles Darwin and Matthew F. Maury on the Earth sciences. The biosphere's ecological context comes from the 1920s (see Vladimir I. Vernadsky), preceding the 1935 introduction of the term \"ecosystem\" by Sir Arthur Tansley (see ecology history). Vernadsky defined ecology as the science of the biosphere. It is an interdisciplinary concept for integrating astronomy, geophysics, meteorology, biogeography, evolution, geology, geochemistry, hydrology and, generally speaking, all life and Earth sciences.\n\nGeochemists define the biosphere as being the total sum of living organisms (the \"biomass\" or \"biota\" as referred to by biologists and ecologists). In this sense, the biosphere is but one of four separate components of the geochemical model, the other three being \"geosphere\", \"hydrosphere\", and \"atmosphere\". When these four component spheres are combined into one system, it is known as the Ecosphere. This term was coined during the 1960s and encompasses both biological and physical components of the planet.\n\nThe Second International Conference on Closed Life Systems defined \"biospherics\" as the science and technology of analogs and models of Earth's biosphere; i.e., artificial Earth-like biospheres. Others may include the creation of artificial non-Earth biospheres—for example, human-centered biospheres or a native Martian biosphere—as part of the topic of biospherics.\n\nThe earliest evidence for life on Earth includes biogenic graphite found in 3.7 billion-year-old metasedimentary rocks from Western Greenland and microbial mat fossils found in 3.48 billion-year-old sandstone from Western Australia. More recently, in 2015, \"remains of biotic life\" were found in 4.1 billion-year-old rocks in Western Australia. In 2017, putative fossilized microorganisms (or microfossils) were announced to have been discovered in hydrothermal vent precipitates in the Nuvvuagittuq Belt of Quebec, Canada that were as old as 4.28 billion years, the oldest record of life on earth, suggesting \"an almost instantaneous emergence of life\" after ocean formation 4.4 billion years ago, and not long after the formation of the Earth 4.54 billion years ago. According to biologist Stephen Blair Hedges, \"If life arose relatively quickly on Earth ... then it could be common in the universe.\"\n\nEvery part of the planet, from the polar ice caps to the equator, features life of some kind. Recent advances in microbiology have demonstrated that microbes live deep beneath the Earth's terrestrial surface, and that the total mass of microbial life in so-called \"uninhabitable zones\" may, in biomass, exceed all animal and plant life on the surface. The actual thickness of the biosphere on earth is difficult to measure. Birds typically fly at altitudes as high as and fish live as much as underwater in the Puerto Rico Trench.\n\nThere are more extreme examples for life on the planet: Rüppell's vulture has been found at altitudes of ; bar-headed geese migrate at altitudes of at least ; yaks live at elevations as high as above sea level; mountain goats live up to . Herbivorous animals at these elevations depend on lichens, grasses, and herbs.\n\nLife forms live in every part of the Earth's biosphere, including soil, hot springs, inside rocks at least deep underground, the deepest parts of the ocean, and at least high in the atmosphere. Microorganisms, under certain test conditions, have been observed to survive the vacuum of outer space. The total amount of soil and subsurface bacterial carbon is estimated as 5 × 10 g, or the \"weight of the United Kingdom\". The mass of prokaryote microorganisms—which includes bacteria and archaea, but not the nucleated eukaryote microorganisms—may be as much as 0.8 trillion tons of carbon (of the total biosphere mass, estimated at between 1 and 4 trillion tons). Barophilic marine microbes have been found at more than a depth of in the Mariana Trench, the deepest spot in the Earth's oceans. In fact, single-celled life forms have been found in the deepest part of the Mariana Trench, by the Challenger Deep, at depths of . Other researchers reported related studies that microorganisms thrive inside rocks up to below the sea floor under of ocean off the coast of the northwestern United States, as well as beneath the seabed off Japan. Culturable thermophilic microbes have been extracted from cores drilled more than into the Earth's crust in Sweden, from rocks between . Temperature increases with increasing depth into the Earth's crust. The rate at which the temperature increases depends on many factors, including type of crust (continental vs. oceanic), rock type, geographic location, etc. The greatest known temperature at which microbial life can exist is (\"Methanopyrus kandleri\" Strain 116), and it is likely that the limit of life in the \"deep biosphere\" is defined by temperature rather than absolute depth. On 20 August 2014, scientists confirmed the existence of microorganisms living below the ice of Antarctica. According to one researcher, \"You can find microbes everywhere — they're extremely adaptable to conditions, and survive wherever they are.\"\n\nOur biosphere is divided into a number of biomes, inhabited by fairly similar flora and fauna. On land, biomes are separated primarily by latitude. Terrestrial biomes lying within the Arctic and Antarctic Circles are relatively barren of plant and animal life, while most of the more populous biomes lie near the equator. \n\nExperimental biospheres, also called closed ecological systems, have been created to study ecosystems and the potential for supporting life outside the earth. These include spacecraft and the following terrestrial laboratories:\n\nNo biospheres have been detected beyond the Earth; therefore, the existence of extraterrestrial biospheres remains hypothetical. The rare Earth hypothesis suggests they should be very rare, save ones composed of microbial life only. On the other hand, Earth analogs may be quite numerous, at least in the Milky Way galaxy, given the large number of planets. Three of the planets discovered orbiting TRAPPIST-1 could possibly contain biospheres. Given limited understanding of abiogenesis, it is currently unknown what percentage of these planets actually develop biospheres.\n\nBased on observations by the Kepler Space Telescope team, it has been calculated that provided the probability of abiogenesis is higher than 1 to 1000, the closest alien biosphere should be within 100 light-years from the Earth.\n\nIt is also possible that artificial biospheres will be created during the future, for example on Mars. The process of creating an uncontained system that mimics the function of Earth's biosphere is called terraforming.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31437122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31437122", "title": "Bullying in information technology", "text": "Bullying in information technology\n\nAs a result of advances in technology, information technology has become a highly important economic sector. Although it is relatively new, this industry still experiences many of the workplace culture problems of older industries. Bullying is common in IT, leading to high sickness rates, low morale, poor productivity and high staff turnover. Deadline-driven project work and stressed-out managers take their toll on IT professionals.\n\nBullying in IT is most commonly downwards hierarchical (such as manager to employee) but can also be horizontal (such as employee to employee) or upwards hierarchical (such as employee to manager).\n\nIn 2002, a survey of UK staff by Mercer Human Resource Consulting found that 21% of respondents in the IT industry have been bullied once or more in the past year. Seven per cent claimed to have suffered chronic bullying.\n\nIn 2005, the Chartered Management Institute conducted a survey of IT managers finding that more than three out of 10 managers have been bullied during the last three years.\n\nIn 2008, the Chartered Management Institute conducted a survey of IT managers finding that 61% witnessed bullying between peers and 26% had witnessed subordinates bullying their managers.\n\nIn 2008, a survey carried out by trade union Unite of IT professionals showed 65% believed they had been bullied at work, and 22% had taken time off work because of stress caused by bullying.\n\nIn 2014 IDG Connect conducted research which showed that 75% of 650 IT professionals surveyed claimed to have been bullied at work, while 85% said they had seen others bullied. This report formed part of an extensive series of articles conducted by the editor.\n\nThe press release stated: “These results in no way prove that things are worse in IT than elsewhere and are weighted by the self-selecting nature of the study. However, via a blend of new statistics, detailed feedback from over 400 in-depth testimonials, along with insight from a range of industry experts, this report paints a pretty comprehensive picture of a seemingly endemic problem.” \n\nImpacts of a bullying culture can include:\n\nVictims reported:\n\nComments from victims and researchers include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "95926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=95926", "title": "Burotu", "text": "Burotu\n\nIn the Melanesian mythology of Fiji, Burotu is the paradise-underworld. Newly dead souls are judged by Degei, and a few go to Burotu. The rest go to Murimuria.\n\n"}
{"id": "1009199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1009199", "title": "Callus (cell biology)", "text": "Callus (cell biology)\n\nPlant callus (plural \"calluses\" or \"calli\") is a growing mass of unorganized plant parenchyma cells. In living plants, callus cells are those cells that cover a plant wound. In biological research and biotechnology callus formation is induced from plant tissue samples (explants) after surface sterilization and plating onto tissue culture medium in vitro (in a closed culture vessel such as a Petri dish). The culture medium is supplemented with plant growth regulators, such as auxins, cytokinins, and gibberellins, to initiate callus formation or somatic embryogenesis. Callus initiation has been described for all major groups of land plants. \n\nPlant species representing all major land plant groups have been shown to be capable of producing callus in tissue culture. A callus cell culture is usually sustained on gel medium. Callus induction medium consists of agar and a mixture of macronutrients and micronutrients for the given cell type. There are several types of basal salt mixtures used in plant tissue culture, but most notably modified Murashige and Skoog medium, White's medium, and woody plant medium. Vitamins are also provided to enhance growth such as Gamborg B5 vitamins. For plant cells, enrichment with nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium is especially important. Plant callus is usually derived from somatic tissues. The tissues used to initiate callus formation depends on plant species and which tissues are available for explant culture. The cells that give rise to callus and somatic embryos usually undergo rapid division or are partially undifferentiated such as meristematic tissue. In alfalfa, \"Medicago truncatula\", however callus and somatic embryos are derived from mesophyll cells that undergo dedifferentiation. Plant hormones are used to initiate callus growth. \nSpecific auxin to cytokinin ratios in plant tissue culture medium give rise to an unorganized growing and dividing mass of callus cells. Callus cultures are often broadly classified as being either compact or friable. Friable calluses fall apart easily, and can be used to generate cell suspension cultures. Callus can directly undergo direct organogenesis and/or embryogenesis where the cells will form an entirely new plant. This process is known as callus culture\n\nCallus can brown and die during culture, but the causes for callus browning are not well understood. In \"Jatropha curcas\" callus cells, small organized callus cells became disorganized and varied in size after browning occurred. Browning has also been associated with oxidation and phenolic compounds in both explant tissues and explant secretions. In rice, presumably, a condition which is favorable for scutellar callus induction induces necrosis too.\n\nCallus cells are not necessarily genetically homogeneous because a callus is often made from structural tissue, not individual cells. Nevertheless, callus cells are often considered similar enough for standard scientific analysis to be performed as if on a single subject. For example, an experiment may have half a callus undergo a treatment as the experimental group, while the other half undergoes a similar but non-active treatment as the control group.\n\nPlant calluses derived from many different cell types can differentiate into a whole plant, a process called regeneration, through addition of plant hormones to the culture medium. This ability is known as totipotency. Regeneration of a whole plant from a single cell allows transgenics researchers to obtain whole plants which have a copy of the transgene in every cell. Regeneration of a whole plant that has some genetically transformed cells and some untransformed cells yields a chimera. In general, chimeras are not useful for genetic research or agricultural applications.\n\nGenes can be inserted into callus cells using biolistic bombardment, also known as a gene gun, or \"Agrobacterium tumefaciens\". Cells that receive the gene of interest can then be recovered into whole plants using a combination of plant hormones. The whole plants that are recovered can be used to experimentally determine gene function(s), or to enhance crop plant traits for modern agriculture.\n\nCallus is of particular use in micropropagation where it can be used to grow genetically identical copies of plants with desirable characteristics.\n\nHenri-Louis Duhamel du Monceau investigated wound-healing responses in elm trees, and was the first to report formation of callus on live plants.\n\nIn 1908, E. F. Simon was able to induce callus from poplar stems that also produced roots and buds. The first reports of callus induction \"in vitro\" came from three independent researchers in 1939. P. White induced callus derived from tumor-developing procambial tissues of hybrid \"Nicotiana glauca\" that did not require hormone supplementation. Gautheret and Nobecourt were able to maintain callus cultures of carrot using auxin hormone additions.\n\n"}
{"id": "32889197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32889197", "title": "Capital punishment in the Middle East", "text": "Capital punishment in the Middle East\n\nCapital punishment is legal in most countries of the Middle East. Much of the motivation for the retention of the death penalty has been religious in nature, as the Qur'an allows or mandates executions for various offences.\n\nAlmost all death penalties were abolished by legislation in 1954 except for serious crimes committed during wartime. The last execution to ever take place in Israel was that of Adolf Eichmann, who was convicted for his role in the Holocaust, in 1962. A moratorium has since been placed on all further execution.\n\nIn 2018 January 2018, Knesset passed a bill introducing death penalty for terrorism.\n\nIn Turkey, capital punishment was fully abolished in 2004 for all crimes. \n\nIn Lebanon in 2008, then-Justice Minister Ibrahim Najjar introduced a draft law to Parliament which would abolish the death penalty. While the law failed to pass, he continued to advocate for the abolition for the rest of his time in office.\n\nFarouk Ksentini, chairman of Algeria's National Advisory Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights (CNCPPDH), stated in 2010 that he would advocate for the abolition of the death penalty. This aroused opposition from Islamist groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "32850351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32850351", "title": "Cell (Dragon Ball)", "text": "Cell (Dragon Ball)\n\nAfter Kazuhiko Torishima, Toriyama's former editor during \"Dr. Slump\" and early \"Dragon Ball\", expressed dissatisfaction with first Androids #19 and #20 and later Androids #17 and #18 as villains, Toriyama created Cell. Toriyama has expressed some kind of regret regarding the design of Cell, calling it tedious to draw all the little spots on his body. In addition, he did not initially plan for the character to be able to transform, but gave him this ability after his then-current editor Yū Kondō described Cell as \"ugly.\" Toriyama intended for Cell's second form to last longer than it did; Kondō found the form to be silly and urged him to hasten the first appearance of the next transformation.\n\nCell originally evolves from a cicada-like form into his form, which is still insect-like in appearance. Both his first form and his second form have a long tail that ends in a stinger-like appendage and allows it to absorb other organisms. The tail recedes under his wings in his final form, although he then uses it to spawn , minuscule childlike versions of himself. After his supposed death, Cell returns even stronger, in a form often called or .\n\nCell is an artificial life form (referred to as a \"Bio-Android\") created by Doctor Gero's supercomputer from the cells of the universe's strongest warriors, possessing the genetic information of Goku, Vegeta, Piccolo, Frieza, and King Cold in an underground complex beneath Gero's secret laboratory. Cell is designed to evolve into the \"perfect\" being by absorbing two of Gero's previous creations, #17 and #18. The Cell that appears as the primary antagonist of his titular arc is from the future, awakening after his development is complete to find that the Androids have been destroyed by Trunks. After he kills Trunks, Cell uses his time machine while regressing into an egg to travel back four years, to before the androids appeared, arriving in the present timeline. After hatching and metamorphosing from his larval, cicada-like form into his insect-like Imperfect form, Cell kills off thousands of people and absorbs them to increase his power in preparation to absorb the Androids. After he's managed to absorb the energy of entire cities of people, Cell finds Android #17 during his fight with Piccolo, defeating the both of them easily before Android 16 holds him off. However, he is able to make an opening to absorb #17 and evolves into a larger, more human-like form. This form, Semi-Perfect Cell, quickly dispatches 16, but he is unable to absorb #18 thanks to the intervention of Tien Shinhan, who holds him back at the cost of his own life force before being rescued by Goku, along with a surviving Piccolo.\n\nCell tracks Android #18, destroying islands to intimidate her into showing herself, but before he can destroy the island that #18 is hiding on, Vegeta appears and quickly defeats him. Before he can be killed, Cell talks Vegeta into letting absorb Android #18 so he can give him a better fight, and upon doing so, he assumes his final form, which is much more human like and eloquent. In this form, Cell easily defeats Krillin, Vegeta, and Trunks, but spares all of them so that they can come to his own fighting tournament, the to find a worthy opponent to face him, intending to destroy Earth when he wins and wanting to enjoy the fear he causes in others.\n\nA week later, in the first round of the Cell Games, he quickly defeats Mr. Satan before moving onto Goku, who quits upon realizing Cell is stronger than him. Goku then nominates his son, Gohan, as Cell's next opponent, to everyone's surprise. Though Gohan puts up a good fight and proves himself his father's superior, Cell easily takes the upper hand due to his pacifistic nature. Wanting to avoid killing Cell if he can help it, Gohan warns Cell that if he is pushed too far, he will lose control of his anger and kill him, which only drives Cell to torment him further, excited to see this power. He spawns , miniature versions of himself who begin to fight the heroes, causing Gohan's rage to slowly swell. It is only when Cell mercilessly kills Android #16 after he had encouraged Gohan to fight that Gohan snaps, transforming into a Super Saiyan 2. Gohan effortlessly, violently kills all the Cell Juniors, and then proceeds to effortlessly overpower Cell, aiming to prolong his suffering, dealing so much damage that Cell regurgitates Android #18 and reverts to his previous form. In desperation, Cell tries to self-destruct and destroy the Earth, but Goku sacrifices himself to ensure that Cell detonates elsewhere.\n\nHowever, Cell is able to survive thanks to his unique physiology, which allows him to regenerate from a special nucleus in his head and grow more powerful whenever he has almost been killed, returning to his Perfect form even stronger than before. He easily kills Trunks, and when Vegeta attacks him in retaliation, he easily swats him aside. Before he can kill him, Gohan takes the blast in his place, which breaks his arm. With victory in his grasp, Cell decides to destroy the planet with one last \"Kamehameha\", claiming he has the power to destroy the entire Solar System. Assisted by his father in spirit, Gohan retaliates with his own \"Kamehameha\", ultimately overpowering Cell with Vegeta's help, destroying his cell nucleus and killing him once and for all. Mr. Satan, however, takes credit for the victory and becomes a hero.\n\nUpon being resurrected by the Dragon Balls and returning to the future, Trunks destroys Androids #17 and #18, and is confronted by the Cell of his timeline, who plans to kill Trunks and use his time machine in the same way his alternate self had. However, Trunks showcases his newfound power and easily kills him, finally bringing peace to the future.\n\nIn filler episodes of the anime, Cell makes numerous cameo appearances, usually as comic relief. Cell tries absorbing two siblings, but is prevented from doing so by Krillin, giving chase to the three and nearly killing Krillin before he notices Piccolo and Tien Shinhan on the way and escapes. In his posthumous appearances, he is shown causing trouble in Hell along with Frieza, King Cold and the Ginyu Force. He is defeated by Goku and Pikkon and sent to prison, and is later seen watching Goku's battle with Majin Boo on a crystal ball, openly wondering why Goku quit against him and then went on to fight Boo, whom he acknowledges to be a stronger opponent than himself.\n\nA few years later, Goku imagines Cell in a training sequence, defeating him with a blow to the head. When he travels back to the past again, Trunks reacts in confusion to seeing Goku alive as he remembers his death from Cell's self-destructing and not long after, Bulma is revealed to have retained the Time Capsule that Cell had stolen from Trunks to return to the present timeline. Cell is remembered by Trunks when he notes the differences between Gohan as a child, in particular when he fought Cell, and him as an adult upon meeting him for the first time in years. An illusion of Cell appears in the Forest of Fear to Krillin and Goku, attacking the pair and growing in size before Krillin concentrates and dispels the illusion by confronting his fear.\n\nIn \"Dragon Ball GT\", after Goku is sent to Hell by accident, he confronts both Cell and Frieza, whose bodies have been rendered temporarily immortal due to the upset in the balance between the two worlds. Though Cell and Frieza trap Goku with their new joint attack and freeze him using a witch below them, they too are frozen after foolishly venturing down to gloat at him, and due to being dead, they cannot thaw out like Goku did. Goku accidentally breaks the ice Cell and Frieza are trapped within to pieces, implying that Cell and Frieza have been erased from existence. However, in a future scene, Frieza and Cell are seen being taken away in a jail cell with tape over their mouths. Cell and Frieza also appear in the GT live action show, with new forms.\n\nCell appears in a TV ad for \"\", questioning why he is not in the film while Frieza brags that he is, Cell then remarks that Frieza only has a non-speaking appearance.\n\nCell appears in a number of video games as a boss and playable character, most notably the \"Budokai\", \"Budokai Tenkaichi\" and \"Raging Blast\" series. He is also a playable character in the \"\". In several games, Cell has forms that have been created specifically for the installment.\n\nIn the 1995 game \"Dragon Ball Z: Super Battle\", after Goku defeats Cell, he gives him a Senzu Bean and allows him to live, Cell promising to return and win.\n\nIn \"\", Cell has a nightmare where he accidentally absorbs Krillin and becomes , with the form leaving him weaker. In the 2003 game \"Dragon Ball Z: Budokai 2\", Cell is revived by Bobbidi and becomes a Majin, his appearance being altered with the letter \"M\" on his forehead alongside black lining appearing under his eyes. This form is short-lived, as Majin Boo terminates Bobbidi, with Cell being absorbed afterward by Boo.\n\nIn the 2005 video game \"Dragon Ball Z: Budokai Tenkaichi\", Cell defeats Gohan and confronts Super 17, defeating him when the two conflict over a shared interest in killing Goku.\n\nIn the 2015 game \"\", Cell appears as a mentor for the player, teaching the \"Perfect Kamehameha\", \"Perfect Shot\", \"All Clear\" and \"Gravity Impact\" to the player. Within the context of the game's story mode, Cell defeats Gohan until the player intervenes in their fight, and the version of the character from Trunks' timeline is able to reach his Perfect form thanks to Towa's strengthening, though he is destroyed by the player and Trunks.\n\nIn the 2016 game \"Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2\", Cell shows up in his Perfect Form and fights Trunks, also meeting Android 16 for the first time and fighting alongside him. Cell is able to reach his Perfect form after defeating both Piccolo and #16 and absorbing #17 and #18 at the same time. When an empowered Android #17 fights Piccolo, Trunks warns the player Cell that succeeding in absorbing him would mean an even larger power boost than in the main timeline. Cell himself shows up empowered, easily dominating Android #16. Cell later fights alongside the corrupted Cell Juniors, and welcomes Metal Cooler to the Cell Games.\n\nIn the 2018 game \"Dragon Ball FighterZ\", Cell defeats Android 18 and is confronted by Goku and Krillin while aiming a beam at her and Android 21. After being defeated, Cell uses the \"Solar Flare\" to escape. Cell laments his lack of power before being confronted by Frieza, who offers him a deal where the two divulge information to each other. The player becomes connected to Cell after Goku is shot by Android 21, and fights Android 21 while controlling Cell's body. Cell escapes from Android 21 with another \"Solar Flare\", and the player returns to Goku from the strain on Cell's body\n\nCell is also a playable character in the crossover fighting game \"Battle Stadium D.O.N.\", as well as a support character in the Shonen Jump crossover \"Jump Ultimate Stars\".\n\nNorio Wakamoto is the Japanese voice of Cell and revealed that when he voiced the forms of Cell, the first form is monster-like, he used a raspy voice which he said was a pain. He toned it down for the second, and by the final form he was able to perform comfortably.\n\nIn the English Funimation dub, Cell is voiced by Dameon Clarke. Clarke considers Cell one of his more \"fun and entertaining\" characters. Sometime around the release of \"\", in which Frieza returned, Clarke said he began receiving questions about a film featuring Cell's return, which he himself supported.\n\nCell is among one of the most powerful antagonists of the original manga. Possessing the genetic material of the some of the world's strongest fighters, he is a master martial artist with superhuman strength, endurance, and speed. He can fly, create energy beams and forcefields using his \"ki\", a form of energy derived from his own life force, and with his stinging tail, he can absorb others, either stabbing them with the tail to dissolve them or engulfing them within it to consume them. It is by absorbing others that he increases his own power.\n\nCell has access to the abilities of those whose cells he was created from, including the \"Kamehameha\", Goku's signature technique, Tien Shinhan's \"Solar Flare\", Vegeta's \"Galick Gun\" and Frieza's \"Death Beam\". Thanks to his Namekian cells, Cell can regenerate portions of his body shortly after they have been destroyed, which he demonstrates during his battles with Android #16, Vegeta, Goku, and Gohan. In the manga, Cell states that he can regenerate so long as a nucleus in his head remains intact, though this is contradicted by an earlier scene in which Cell regenerated after having the top half of his body, head included, destroyed. This is retconned in the Funimation dub, in which Cell states that he can regenerate from just a single cell. After his near-death experience, he gains the ability to use \"Instant Transmission\", another technique of Goku's, which allows him to teleport by placing his fingers to the center of his head and thinking of his intended destination.\n\nCell's strength progresses over the course of his self-titled story arc; at the beginning of the arc, in his Imperfect state, he is outmatched by Piccolo and is too weak to absorb the Androids. However, after he absorbs thousands of humans using his tail, his power grows to the point that he is easily able to best Piccolo and Android #17, absorbing the latter to progress into his next form, which quickly dispatches Android #16, an opponent equal in power to his previous state. This power is in turn eclipsed by his final, Perfect form. In this state, Cell easily toys with and defeats Vegeta, who had similarly overpowered his Semi-Perfect form, without even approaching anything near his full power. At full power, Cell is far stronger than even Goku and Gohan after the year they spent in the Room of Spirit and Time, with only Super Saiyan 2 Gohan proving capable of defeating him. After nearly being killed by his own self-destruction, Cell's Saiyan biology greatly boosts his power once more, allowing him to break Gohan's arm with a single blast and match his final Kamehameha with his own. In this form, he compares his power to that of a Super Saiyan 2 and claims to have enough power to destroy the Solar System.\n\nThrough his tail, Cell is able to create minuscule, childlike versions of himself known as , which are also colored differently from him. They have a portion of Cell's power, as they were able to overwhelm most of the Z Fighters, as Cell would, but had trouble with Piccolo, Vegeta, and Trunks.\n\nIn 2004, fans of the series voted Cell the fourteenth most popular character for a poll in the book \"Dragon Ball Forever\". In 2015, Jacob Yothment ranked Cell No. 3 on his list \"Top 10 Villains of the Dragon Ball Franchise\", Shawn Saris of IGN ranked Cell No. 7 on the list \"Top 13 Dragon Ball Z Characters\", and Otakukart.com ranked Cell No. 2 on the list \"Top 10 Dragon Ball Villains\". In 2016, Cell was ranked No. 6 on the saikoplus.com list \"10 Most Popular Characters in Dragon Ball Z\".\n\nMichael Zupan assessed Cell as the \"Dragon Ball\" villain with the most buildup, writing, \"The Z Fighters throw everything they have at this character, and just when you think he's beat... he transforms into something more powerful.\" Dennis Amith of J!-ENT described Cell as \"the toughest enemy that the team has fought yet\" and liked how the efforts of the other characters trying to stop Cell is the main focus of that part of the series. J. Steiff and T. D. Tamplin used Cell as an example of the concept of \"leveling up\" in anime and believed Cell follows this concept well.\n\nThe concept of the Cell Games and its execution were criticized. D. F. Smith of IGN criticized Cell's decision to hold a fighting tournament instead of destroying Earth as a sign of the author having run out of ideas. Reviewer Josh Begley had disapproval toward the tournament as he believed it would feature \"endless fighting and no real plot progression.\" Luke Ryan Baldock took issue with the tournament based season for its lack of plot and high amount of action.\n"}
{"id": "7810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7810", "title": "Church of the Holy Sepulchre", "text": "Church of the Holy Sepulchre\n\nThe Church of the Holy Sepulchre ( \"Kanīsatu al-Qiyāmah\"; \"Naos tes Anastaseos\"; \"Surb Harut'yan tač̣ar\"; ; , \"Knesiyat ha-Kever\"; also called the Church of the Resurrection or Church of the \"Anastasis\" by Orthodox Christians) is a church in the Christian Quarter of the Old City of Jerusalem. The church contains, according to traditions dating back to at least the fourth century, the two holiest sites in Christianity: the site where Jesus of Nazareth was crucified, at a place known as \"Calvary\" or \"Golgotha\", and Jesus's empty tomb, where he is said to have been buried and resurrected. The tomb is enclosed by the 19th-century shrine, called the Aedicule (Edicule). The \"Status Quo\", a 150-year-old understanding between religious communities, applies to the site.\n\nWithin the church proper are the last four (or, by some definitions, five) Stations of the Via Dolorosa, representing the final episodes of Jesus' Passion. The church has been a major Christian pilgrimage destination since its creation in the fourth century, as the traditional site of the Resurrection of Christ, thus its original Greek name, Church of the Anastasis.\n\nToday, the wider complex accumulated during the centuries around the Church of the Holy Sepulchre also serves as the headquarters of the Greek Orthodox Patriarch of Jerusalem, while control of the church itself is shared among several Christian denominations and secular entities in complicated arrangements essentially unchanged for over 160 years, and some for much longer. The main denominations sharing property over parts of the church are the Greek Orthodox, Armenian Apostolic and Roman Catholic, and to a lesser degree the Coptic Orthodox, Syriac Orthodox and Ethiopian Orthodox. Meanwhile, Protestants, including Anglicans, have no permanent presence in the Church. Some Protestants prefer The Garden Tomb, elsewhere in Jerusalem, as a more evocative site to commemorate Jesus' crucifixion and resurrection.\n\nC. 135 AD, the Roman emperor Hadrian ordered that the cave, wherein Jesus is thought to have been buried, be filled in order to create a flat foundation, and built a temple dedicated to Jupiter or Venus. The temple, usually referred to as \"Jupiter Capitolinus\", remained until the early 4th century, when Constantine the Great converted to Christianity, signed the Edict of Milan legalising the religion, and made new plans for the Temple Mount.\n\nThe first Christian emperor, Constantine ordered in about 326 that Hadrian's temple be replaced by a church. After the old temple was torn down and its ruins removed, the soil was removed from the cave, revealing a rock-cut tomb that Helena and Macarius identified as the burial site of Jesus.\nConstantine's church was built as separate constructs over the two holy sites: the great basilica (the \"Martyrium\" visited by Egeria in the 380s), an enclosed colonnaded atrium (the \"Triportico\") with the traditional site of Calvary in one corner, and across a courtyard, a rotunda called the \"Anastasis\" (\"Resurrection\"), where Jesus is believed to have been buried.\n\nThe church was consecrated on 13 September 335. Each year, the Eastern Orthodox Church celebrates the anniversary of the consecration of the Church of the Resurrection (Holy Sepulchre) on 13 September.\n\nIn the centre of the rotunda is a small building called the \"Kouvouklion\" in Greek or the \"Aedicula\" in Latin, which encloses the tomb.\nHowever, there are several thick window wells extending through the marble sheath, from the interior to the exterior that are not marble clad. They appear to reveal an underlying limestone rock, which may be part of the original living rock of the tomb.\n\nThis building was damaged by fire in May of 614 when the Sassanid Empire, under Khosrau II, invaded Jerusalem and captured the True Cross. In 630, the Emperor Heraclius restored it and rebuilt the church after recapturing the city. After Jerusalem came under Arab rule, it remained a Christian church, with the early Muslim rulers protecting the city's Christian sites. A story reports that the Caliph Umar ibn al-Khattab visited the church and stopped to pray on the balcony; but at the time of prayer, he turned away from the church and prayed outside. He feared that future generations would misinterpret this gesture, taking it as a pretext to turn the church into a mosque. Eutychius added that Umar wrote a decree prohibiting Muslims from praying at this location. The building suffered severe damage due to an earthquake in 746.\n\nEarly in the ninth century, another earthquake damaged the dome of the Anastasis. The damage was repaired in 810 by Patriarch Thomas. In the year 841, the church suffered a fire. In 935, the Orthodox Christians prevented the construction of a Muslim mosque adjacent to the Church. In 938, a new fire damaged the inside of the basilica and came close to the rotunda. In 966, due to a defeat of Muslim armies in the region of Syria, a riot broke out, which was followed by reprisals. The basilica was burned again. The doors and roof were burnt, and the Patriarch John VII was murdered.\n\nOn 18 October 1009, Fatimid caliph Al-Hakim bi-Amr Allah ordered the complete destruction of the church as part of a more general campaign against Christian places of worship in Palestine and Egypt. The damage was extensive, with few parts of the early church remaining. Christian Europe reacted with shock and expulsions of Jews (for example, Cluniac monk Rodulfus Glaber blamed the Jews, with the result that Jews were expelled from Limoges and other French towns) and an impetus to later Crusades.\n\nIn wide-ranging negotiations between the Fatimids and the Byzantine Empire in 1027–28, an agreement was reached whereby the new Caliph Ali az-Zahir (Al-Hakim's son) agreed to allow the rebuilding and redecoration of the Church. The rebuilding was finally completed with the financing at a huge expense by Emperor Constantine IX Monomachos and Patriarch Nicephorus of Constantinople in 1048. As a concession, the mosque in Constantinople was re-opened and the khutba sermons were to be pronounced in az-Zahir's name. Muslim sources say a by-product of the agreement was the recanting of Islam by many Christians who had been forced to convert under Al-Hakim's persecutions. In addition, the Byzantines, while releasing 5,000 Muslim prisoners, made demands for the restoration of other churches destroyed by Al-Hakim and the re-establishment of a Patriarch in Jerusalem. Contemporary sources credit the emperor with spending vast sums in an effort to restore the Church of the Holy Sepulchre after this agreement was made. Despite the Byzantines spending vast sums on the project, \"a total replacement was far beyond available resources. The new construction was concentrated on the rotunda and its surrounding buildings: the great basilica remained in ruins.\" The rebuilt church site consisted of \"a court open to the sky, with five small chapels attached to it.\" The chapels were to the east of the court of resurrection, where the wall of the great church had been. They commemorated scenes from the passion, such as the location of the prison of Christ and of his flagellation, and presumably were so placed because of the difficulties of free movement among shrines in the streets of the city. The dedication of these chapels indicates the importance of the pilgrims' devotion to the suffering of Christ. They have been described as 'a sort of Via Dolorosa in miniature'... since little or no rebuilding took place on the site of the great basilica. Western pilgrims to Jerusalem during the eleventh century found much of the sacred site in ruins.\" Control of Jerusalem, and thereby the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, continued to change hands several times between the Fatimids and the Seljuk Turks (loyal to the Abbasid caliph in Baghdad) until the arrival of the Crusaders in 1099.\n\nMany historians maintain that the main concern of Pope Urban II, when calling for the First Crusade, was the threat to Constantinople from the Turkish invasion of Asia Minor in response to the appeal of Byzantine Emperor Alexios I Komnenos. Historians agree that the fate of Jerusalem and thereby the Church of the Holy Sepulchre was of concern if not the immediate goal of papal policy in 1095. The idea of taking Jerusalem gained more focus as the Crusade was underway. The rebuilt church site was taken from the Fatimids (who had recently taken it from the Abassids) by the knights of the First Crusade on 15 July 1099.\nThe First Crusade was envisioned as an armed pilgrimage, and no crusader could consider his journey complete unless he had prayed as a pilgrim at the Holy Sepulchre. Crusader Prince Godfrey of Bouillon, who became the first crusader monarch of Jerusalem, decided not to use the title \"king\" during his lifetime, and declared himself \"Advocatus Sancti Sepulchri\" (\"Protector [or Defender] of the Holy Sepulchre\"). By the crusader period, a cistern under the former basilica was rumoured to have been the location where Helena had found the True Cross, and began to be venerated as such; although the cistern later became the \"Chapel of the Invention of the Cross,\" there is no evidence of the rumour before the 11th century, and modern archaeological investigation has now dated the cistern to 11th century repairs by Monomachos.\n\nAccording to the German clergyman and orient pilgrim Ludolf von Sudheim, the keys of the Chapel of the Holy Sepulchre were in hands of the \"ancient Georgians\" and the food, alms, candles and oil for lamps were given them by the pilgrims in the south door of the church.\n\nWilliam of Tyre, chronicler of the Crusader Kingdom of Jerusalem, reports on the renovation of the Church in the mid-12th century. The crusaders investigated the eastern ruins on the site, occasionally excavating through the rubble, and while attempting to reach the cistern, they discovered part of the original ground level of Hadrian's temple enclosure; they decided to transform this space into a chapel dedicated to Helena (the Chapel of Saint Helena), widening their original excavation tunnel into a proper staircase. The crusaders began to refurnish the church in a Romanesque style and added a bell tower. These renovations unified the small chapels on the site and were completed during the reign of Queen Melisende in 1149, placing all the Holy places under one roof for the first time. The church became the seat of the first Latin Patriarchs, and was also the site of the kingdom's scriptorium. The church was lost to Saladin, along with the rest of the city, in 1187, although the treaty established after the Third Crusade allowed for Christian pilgrims to visit the site. Emperor Frederick II (r. 1220–50) regained the city and the church by treaty in the 13th century while he himself was under a ban of excommunication, with the curious consequence that the holiest church in Christianity was laid under interdict. The church seems to have been largely in Greek Orthodox Patriarch Athanasius II of Jerusalem's hands, c. 1231–47, during the Latin control of Jerusalem. Both city and church were captured by the Khwarezmians in 1244.\n\nSometime in the fourteenth century, a marble sheath was placed to envelop the remains of Christ's tomb, probably to prevent pilgrims from laying their hands on the original rock or taking small pieces as souvenirs.\n\nThe Franciscan friars renovated it further in 1555, as it had been neglected despite increased numbers of pilgrims. The Franciscans rebuilt the Aedicule, extending the structure to create an ante-chamber. After the renovation of 1555, control of the church oscillated between the Franciscans and the Orthodox, depending on which community could obtain a favorable \"firman\" from the \"Sublime Porte\" at a particular time, often through outright bribery, and violent clashes were not uncommon. There was no agreement about this question, although it was discussed at the negotiations to the Treaty of Karlowitz in 1699. In 1767, weary of the squabbling, the \"Porte\" issued a \"firman\" that divided the church among the claimants.\n\nA fire severely damaged the structure again in 1808, causing the dome of the Rotunda to collapse and smashing the Aedicule's exterior decoration. The Rotunda and the Aedicule's exterior were rebuilt in 1809–1810 by architect Nikolaos Ch. Komnenos of Mytilene in the then current Ottoman Baroque style. The fire did not reach the interior of the Aedicule, and the marble decoration of the Tomb dates mainly to the 1555 restoration, although the interior of the ante-chamber, now known as the \"Chapel of the Angel,\" was partly rebuilt to a square ground-plan, in place of the previously semi-circular western end. Another decree in 1853 from the sultan solidified the existing territorial division among the communities and set a \"status quo\" for arrangements to \"remain forever,\" causing differences of opinion about upkeep and even minor changes, including disagreement on the removal of the \"Immovable Ladder\", an exterior ladder under one of the windows; this ladder has remained in the same position since then.\nThe cladding of red marble applied to the Aedicule by Komnenos has deteriorated badly and is detaching from the underlying structure; since 1947 it has been held in place with an exterior scaffolding of iron girders installed by the British authorities. A careful renovation is undergoing, funded by a $4 million gift from King Abdullah II of Jordan and a $1.3-million gift from Mica Ertegun.\n\nThe current dome dates from 1870, although it was restored between 1994–1997, as part of extensive modern renovations to the church which have been ongoing since 1959. During the 1970–1978 restoration works and excavations inside the building, and under the nearby Muristan, it was found that the area was originally a quarry, from which white \"meleke\" limestone was struck. To the east of the \"Chapel of Saint Helena\", the excavators discovered a void containing a 2nd-century drawing of a Roman ship, two low walls which supported the platform of Hadrian's 2nd-century temple, and a higher 4th-century wall built to support Constantine's basilica. After the excavations of the early 1970s, the Armenian authorities converted this archaeological space into the Chapel of Saint Vartan, and created an artificial walkway over the quarry on the north of the chapel, so that the new Chapel could be accessed (by permission) from the \"Chapel of Saint Helena\".\n\nIn 2016, restoration works were performed in the Aedicule. For the first time since at least 1555, marble cladding which protected the estimated burial bed of Jesus from vandalism and souvenir takers was removed. When the cladding was first removed on 26 October, an initial inspection by the National Technical University of Athens team showed only a layer of fill material underneath. By the night of 28 October, the original limestone burial bed was revealed intact. This suggested that the tomb location has not changed through time and confirmed the existence of the original limestone cave walls within the Aedicule. The tomb was resealed shortly thereafter.\n\nThe courtyard facing the entrance to the church is known as the parvis.\n\nLocated around the parvis are a few smaller structures.\n\nSouth of the parvis, opposite the church:\n\nOn the eastern side of the parvis, south to north:\nNorth of the parvis, in front of the church façade or against it:\n\nA group of three chapels is bordering the parvis on its west side. They originally formed the baptistery complex of the Constantinian church. The southernmost chapel was the vestibule, the middle chapel the actual baptistery, and the north chapel the chamber in which the patriarch chrismated the newly baptized before leading them into the rotunda north of this complex. Now they are dedicated as (from south to north)\n\nThe church's bell tower is located to the left of the façade. It is currently almost half its original size.\n\nThe entrance to the church, a single door in the south transept—through the crusader façade—is found past a group of streets winding through the outer Via Dolorosa, by way of a local souq in the Muristan. This narrow way of access to such a large structure has proven to be hazardous at times. For example, when a fire broke out in 1840, dozens of pilgrims were trampled to death.\n\nThe \"Immovable Ladder\", in its latest incarnation, stands beneath a window on the façade.\n\nHistorically, two large, arched doors allowed access to the church. However, only the left-hand entrance is currently accessible, as the right door has long since been bricked up. These entrances are located in the parvis of a larger courtyard, or plaza.\n\nJust inside the church is a stairway climbing to Calvary (Golgotha), traditionally regarded as the site of Jesus' crucifixion and the most lavishly decorated part of the church. The exit is via another stairway opposite the first, leading down to the ambulatory. The Golgotha and its chapels are just south of the main altar of the Catholicon.\n\nOn the ground floor, underneath the Golgotha chapel proper, are the Chapel of Adam and the Treasury of the Greek Orthodox Patriarchate, holding many relics including an alleged fragment of the Holy Cross.\n\nThe raised Chapel of the Calvary, or Golgotha Chapel, contains the apex of the Rock of Calvary (12th Station of the Cross). It is split into two halves, one Greek Orthodox and one Catholic, each one with its own altar. The northern half with the main altar belongs to the Greek Orthodox. The rock can be seen under glass on both sides of the altar, and beneath the altar there is a hole in the rock, said to be the place where the cross was raised. Due to the significance of this, it is the most visited site in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre along with the Tomb of Jesus. The Roman Catholic (Franciscan) Chapel of the Nailing of the Cross (11th Station of the Cross) stretches south of it. Between the Catholic and the Orthodox altar, there is a statue of Mary, believed by some to be miraculous. It marks the 13th Station of the Cross, where Jesus' body was removed from the cross and given to his family and disciples.\n\nBeneath the Calvary and the two chapels there, on the main floor, there is the Chapel of Adam. According to tradition, Jesus was crucified over the place where Adam's skull was buried. According to some, at the crucifixion, the blood of Christ ran down the cross and through the rocks to fill the skull of Adam. The Rock of Calvary appears cracked through a window on the altar wall, with the crack traditionally claimed to be caused by the earthquake that occurred when Jesus died on the cross, while some scholars claim it to be the result of quarrying against a natural flaw in the rock.\n\nJust inside the entrance to the church is the Stone of Anointing (also Stone of the Anointing or Stone of Unction), which tradition believes to be the spot where Jesus' body was prepared for burial by Joseph of Arimathea. However, this tradition is only attested since the crusader era (notably by the Italian Dominican pilgrim Riccoldo da Monte di Croce in 1288), and the present stone was only added in the 1810 reconstruction.\n\nThe wall behind the stone is defined by its striking blue balconies and tau cross-bearing red banners (depicting the insignia of the Brotherhood of the Holy Sepulchre), and is decorated with lamps. The modern three-part mosaic along the wall depicts the anointing of Jesus' body, preceded on the right by the Descent from the Cross, and succeeded on the left by the Burial of Jesus.\n\nThe wall was a temporary addition to support the arch above it, which had been weakened after the damage in the 1808 fire; it blocks the view of the rotunda, separates the entrance from the Catholicon, sits on top of the now-empty and desecrated graves of four 12th-century crusader kings—including Godfrey of Bouillon and Baldwin I of Jerusalem—and is no longer structurally necessary. There is a difference of opinion as to whether it is to be seen as the 13th Station of the Cross, which others identify as the lowering of Jesus from the cross and locate between the 11th and 12th stations on Calvary.\n\nThe lamps that hang over the Stone of Unction, adorned with cross-bearing chain links, are contributed by Armenians, Copts, Greeks and Latins.\n\nImmediately to the left of the entrance is a bench that has traditionally been used by the church's Muslim doorkeepers, along with some Christian clergy, as well as electrical wiring. To the right of the entrance is a wall along the ambulatory containing, to the very right, the staircase leading to Golgotha. Further along the same wall is the entrance to the Chapel of Adam.\n\nThe Rotunda is located in the centre of the Anastasis, beneath the larger of the church's two domes. In the center of the Rotunda is the chapel called the Aedicule, which contains the Holy Sepulchre itself. The Aedicule has two rooms, the first holding the Angel's Stone, which is believed to be a fragment of the large stone that sealed the tomb; the second is the tomb itself. Possibly due to the fact that pilgrims laid their hands on the tomb or to prevent eager pilgrims from removing bits of the original rock as souvenirs, a marble plaque was placed in the fourteenth century on the tomb to prevent further damage to the tomb.\n\nUnder the \"status quo\", the Eastern Orthodox, Roman Catholic, and Armenian Apostolic Churches all have rights to the interior of the tomb, and all three communities celebrate the Divine Liturgy or Holy Mass there daily. It is also used for other ceremonies on special occasions, such as the Holy Saturday ceremony of the Holy Fire led by the Greek Orthodox Patriarch (with the participation of the Coptic and Armenian patriarchs). To its rear, in a chapel constructed of iron latticework upon a stone base semicircular in plan, lies the altar used by the Coptic Orthodox. Historically, the Georgians also retained the key to the Aedicule.\n\nFrom May 2016 to March 2017, the Aedicule underwent restoration and repairs after the Israel Antiquities Authority declared the structure unsafe. Much of the $3 million project was funded by the World Monuments Fund.\n\nWest of the Aedicule, to the rear of the Rotunda, is a chapel (see \"Syriac Chapel with Tomb of Joseph of Arimathea\") located in a Constantinian apse and containing an opening to a rock-cut ancient Jewish tomb. This chapel is where the Syriac Orthodox celebrate their Liturgy on Sundays.\n\nTo the right of the Sepulchre on the northwestern edge of the Rotunda is the Chapel of the Apparition, which is reserved for Roman Catholic use (see \"Franciscan area north of the Aedicule\").\n\n\nEast of this is a large iconostasis demarcating the Orthodox sanctuary before which is set the throne of the Greek Orthodox Patriarch of Jerusalem on the south side facing the throne of the Greek Orthodox Patriarch of Antioch on the north side. \n\n\nFurther to the east in the ambulatory are three chapels (from south to north):\n\n\n\n\nIt is accessed from the Rotunda, by a door west of the Aedicule. On the far side of the chapel is the low entrance to an almost complete 1st-century Jewish tomb, initially holding six \"kokh\"-type funeral shafts radiating from a central chamber, of which two are still exposed. Although this space was discovered recently and contains no identifying marks, many Christians believe that Saints Joseph of Arimathea and Nicodemus were buried here.\n\nSince Jews always buried their dead outside the city, the presence of this tomb proves that the Holy Sepulchre site was outside the city walls at the time of the crucifixion.\n\nSouth of the Aedicule is the \"Place of the Three Marys\", marked by a stone canopy and a large modern wall mosaic. From here one can enter the Armenian monastery which stretches over the ground and first upper floor of the church's southeastern part.\n\nThe Sultan's firman (decree) of 1853, known as the \"status quo\", pinned down the now permanent statutes of property and the regulations concerning the roles of the different denominations and other custodians.\n\nThe primary custodians are the Greek Orthodox, Armenian Apostolic, and Roman Catholic Churches, with the Greek Orthodox Church having the lion's share. In the 19th century, the Coptic Orthodox, the Ethiopian Orthodox and the Syriac Orthodox acquired lesser responsibilities, which include shrines and other structures in and around the building. Times and places of worship for each community are strictly regulated in common areas. The Greek Orthodox act through the Greek Orthodox Patriarchate as well as through the Brotherhood of the Holy Sepulchre. The Roman Catholics act through the Franciscan Custody of the Holy Land.\n\nThe establishment of the 1853 status quo did not halt controversy and sometimes violence, which continues to break out occasionally. On a hot summer day in 2002, a Coptic monk moved his chair from its agreed spot into the shade. This was interpreted as a hostile move by the Ethiopians, and eleven were hospitalized after the resulting fracas.\n\nIn another incident in 2004, during Orthodox celebrations of the Exaltation of the Holy Cross, a door to the Franciscan chapel was left open. This was taken as a sign of disrespect by the Orthodox and a fistfight broke out. Some people were arrested, but no one was seriously injured.\nOn Palm Sunday, in April 2008, a brawl broke out when a Greek monk was ejected from the building by a rival faction. Police were called to the scene but were also attacked by the enraged brawlers. On Sunday, 9 November 2008, a clash erupted between Armenian and Greek monks during celebrations for the Feast of the Cross.\n\nA less grave sign of this state of affairs is located on a window ledge over the church's entrance. A wooden ladder was placed there at some time before 1852, when the \"status quo\" defined both the doors and the window ledges as common ground. This ladder, the \"Immovable Ladder\", in its latest incarnation, remains to this day, in almost exactly the same position it occupied in century-old photographs and engravings, as it must be replaced whenever it falls apart. An engraving by David Roberts in 1839 also shows the same ladder in the same position.\n\nNo one controls the main entrance. In 1192, Saladin assigned door-keeping responsibilities to the Muslim Nuseibeh family. The wooden doors that compose the main entrance are the original, highly carved doors. The Joudeh Al-Goudia family were entrusted as custodian to the keys of the Holy Sepulchre by Saladin in 1187.\n\nDespite occasional disagreements, the religious services take place in the Church with regularity and coexistence is generally peaceful. An example of concord between the Church custodians is the recent (2016–17) full restoration of the Aedicule.\n\nIn late February 2018 after a tax dispute over 152 million euros of uncollected taxes on church properties the Church had closed until further notice. The city hall stressed that the Church of the Holy Sepulchre and all other churches are exempt from the taxes, with the changes only affecting establishments like \"hotels, halls and businesses\" owned by the churches. NPR had reported that the Greek Orthodox Church calls itself the second-largest landowner in Israel, after the Israeli government.\n\nThere was a lock in protest against an Israeli legislative proposal which would expropriate church lands that had been sold to private companies since 2010, a measure which church leaders assert constitutes a serious violation of their property rights and the status quo. In a joint official statement the church authorities protested what they considered to be the peak of a systematic campaign in\n'a discriminatory and racist bill that targets solely the properties of the Christian community in the Holy Land,' adding, 'This reminds us all of laws of a similar nature which were enacted against the Jews during dark periods in Europe.'\n\nThe 2018 Taxation affair does not cover any church buildings or religious related facilities (because they are exempt by law), but commercial facilities such as the Notre Dame Hotel which was not paying the arnona tax, and any land which is owned and used as a commercial land. The church hold the rights to land where private homes have been constructed, and some of the disagreement had been raised after the Knesset had proposed a bill that will make it harder for a private company not to extend a lease for land used by homeowners. According to the JPost 'The stated aim of the bill is to protect homeowners against the possibility that private companies will not extend their leases of land on which their houses or apartments stand.' The church leaders have said that such a bill will make it harder for them to sell church owned lands.\n\nThe site of the Church had been a temple of Venus before Constantine's edifice was built. Hadrian's temple had actually been located there because it was the junction of the main north-south road with one of the two main east-west roads and directly adjacent to the forum (which is now the location of the (smaller) Muristan); the forum itself had been placed, as is traditional in Roman towns, at the junction of the main north-south road with the (other) main east-west road (which is now El-Bazar/David Street). The temple and forum together took up the entire space between the two main east-west roads (a few above-ground remains of the east end of the temple precinct still survive in the Alexander Nevsky Church complex of the \"Russian Mission in Exile\").\n\nFrom the archaeological excavations in the 1970s, it is clear that construction took over most of the site of the earlier temple enclosure and that the \"Triportico\" and \"Rotunda\" roughly overlapped with the temple building itself; the excavations indicate that the temple extended at least as far back as the Aedicule, and the temple enclosure would have reached back slightly further. Virgilio Canio Corbo, a Franciscan priest and archaeologist, who was present at the excavations, estimated from the archaeological evidence that the western retaining wall of the temple itself would have passed extremely close to the east side of the supposed tomb; if the wall had been any further west any \"tomb\" would have been crushed under the weight of the wall (which would be immediately above it) if it had not already been destroyed when foundations for the wall were made.\n\nOther archaeologists have criticized Corbo's reconstructions. Dan Bahat, the former city archaeologist of Jerusalem, regards them as unsatisfactory, as there is no known temple of Aphrodite matching Corbo's design, and no archaeological evidence for Corbo's suggestion that the temple building was on a platform raised high enough to avoid including anything sited where the Aedicule is now; indeed Bahat notes that many temples to Aphrodite have a rotunda-like design, and argues that there is no archaeological reason to assume that the present rotunda was not based on a rotunda in the temple previously on the site.\n\nThe New Testament describes Jesus's tomb as being outside the city wall, as was normal for burials across the ancient world, which were regarded as unclean. Today, the site of the Church is within the current walls of the old city of Jerusalem. It has been well documented by archaeologists that in the time of Jesus, the walled city was smaller and the wall then was to the east of the current site of the Church. In other words, the city had been much narrower in Jesus' time, with the site then having been outside the walls; since Herod Agrippa (41–44) is recorded by history as extending the city to the north (beyond the present northern walls), the required repositioning of the western wall is traditionally attributed to him as well.\n\nThe area immediately to the south and east of the sepulchre was a quarry and outside the city during the early 1st century as excavations under the Lutheran Church of the Redeemer across the street demonstrated.\n\nThe church is a part of the UNESCO World Heritage Site Old City of Jerusalem.\n\nThe Christian Quarter and the (also Christian) Armenian Quarter of the Old City of Jerusalem are both located in the northwestern and western part of the Old City, due to the fact that the Holy Sepulchre is located close to the northwestern corner of the walled city. The adjacent neighbourhood within the Christian Quarter is called the Muristan, a term derived from the Persian word for hospital—Christian pilgrim hospices have been maintained in this area near the Holy Sepulchre since at least the time of Charlemagne.\n\nFrom the 9th century, the construction of churches inspired in the Anastasis was extended across Europe. One example is Santo Stefano in Bologna, Italy, an agglomeration of seven churches recreating shrines of Jerusalem.\n\nSeveral churches and monasteries in Europe, for instance, in Germany and Russia, and at least one church in the United States have been modeled on the Church of the Resurrection, some even reproducing other holy places for the benefit of pilgrims who could not travel to the Holy Land. They include the of Görlitz, constructed between 1481 and 1504, the New Jerusalem Monastery in Moscow Oblast, constructed by Patriarch Nikon between 1656 and 1666, and Mount St. Sepulchre Franciscan Monastery built by the Franciscans in Washington, DC in 1898.\n\n\nFootnotes\nCitations\n\n\nCustodians\n"}
{"id": "2507173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2507173", "title": "Communalness", "text": "Communalness\n\nCommunalness, as suggested by Robert A. Freitas Jr., is a level of an emergent phenomenon which originates from electronic sentience, and represents a broader mode of thinking than just normal consciousness. While consciousness is limited to the individual, communalness describes a complex organization of numerous individuals which on a higher level is tightly connected to each other. Such an organization would maybe have the same intimate awareness of its own existence as a whole as people have consciousness of their own bodies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5161585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5161585", "title": "Coop (Charmed)", "text": "Coop (Charmed)\n\nCoop is a fictional character who appeared in the American television supernatural drama \"Charmed\", which aired on the WB Television Network (the WB) from 1998 to 2006. The character was created by executive producer Brad Kern and was portrayed by Victor Webster. Coop is depicted as a Cupid, a magical being associated with love, who is over two centuries old. He appeared in the last seven episodes of the final season of \"Charmed\", and appears in canonical works from the expanded universe material, such as the series' comic book adaptation.\n\nCupids are a race of magical beings associated with love. Coop was sent by the Elders to help Phoebe with her love life. He gave her advice, and took her to the past to see her past loves (Cole Turner, Dex Lawson, etc.), allowing her to love again.\n\nLater in the series, they fall in love (Coop falls first and Phoebe falls for Michael, whom Coop was manipulating Phoebe to love), although it was forbidden for a Cupid to fall in love with a human, similar to how it was forbidden for Whitelighters to date, marry, or have children with their charges. Only later in the series does Phoebe begin to admit her feelings for Coop.\n\nIn the show's finale, the future adult Wyatt exclaims \"Uncle Coop!\" upon seeing him, which accidentally lets slip that Coop is Phoebe's husband and thus his and Chris' uncle. While Chris immediately hits Wyatt to hush him up since he has revealed the unknown future, Phoebe seems freaked out at this idea, since she knows about the forbidden nature of this romance. After he tries to talk to her and reassure her to no avail, he finds himself attacked by Billie's manipulative demon friend Dumain for his ring's time travel ability. Also in the finale, Piper uses his ring to travel through time to save Phoebe and Paige.\n\nWhen Phoebe's calls for him fail, Wyatt and Chris reveal that their love is given a blessing (and was the main underlying reason he was actually sent down) by the Elders to make up for all the events they put her through as a Charmed One. In the exact words of Wyatt, \"It wasn't, and it will not be, a forbidden love.\" In addition to that, she was able to bring him to her by simply thinking of him due to their connection. The Charmed Ones are able to use Billie's Projection power to travel back in time, and after they vanquish the Triad and Piper vanquishes Dumain, Paige retrieves his ring from Christy and Piper gives it back to him upon their return to the present.\n\nThe same episode, which depicts the futures of the Charmed Ones, shows their wedding and the three daughters they eventually have.\n\nIn season 3, Phoebe is told that an apple peel in water will take the form of the first letter of the name of her true love. It is a \"C,\" which at that time was meant to imply Cole. This prediction does come to pass though, as Coop is revealed to be her true love. Also noteworthy is the fact that Phoebe became briefly infatuated with the unnamed Cupid that the sisters aided in the Season 2 episode, \"Heartbreak City\". The Cupid in that episode also told Phoebe that her heart was closed to the men in her life, and that she was falling for him because she loved the idea of love.\n\nIn 2010, \"Charmed\" gained an officially licensed continuation in the form of a comic book, which is often billed as \"\". The series is published monthly by Zenescope Entertainment. Set eighteen months after the series finale, Coop is seen living a happy, demon-free life with his wife Phoebe and their first daughter, who is named Prudence Johnna Halliwell and nicknamed P.J. by Grams.\n\nIn the 14th issue of the comic, \"Cupid's Harrow\", after he expressed grief over the fact that he never got to know his family, Phoebe arranged for him to meet his distant relatives, the Coopersmiths. In Issue #20 of the comic, \"The Old Witchero\", Coop and Phoebe welcomed their second daughter, Parker Halliwell.\n\nActor Victor Webster has said of his character, \"I think he just loves life, he loves love. I think he's very charming and easy-going and lighthearted. I think he just generally enjoys being around people and really helping people.\" He says he was chosen for the part because he displays many of those traits himself. However, he also claimed that playing \"the perfect guy\" was something of a struggle, \"Coop is extremely confident. He knows all about love and relationships, and the problem with a guy who's so sure of himself is that you can play him very cocky and arrogant, and that can be somewhat off-putting.\" The actor explains that falling in love takes a great deal of humility, and that required him to bring a self-deprecating quality to his performance: \"you learn about your faults and how to overcome them if the relationship means that much to you.\"\n\nVictor Webster has admitted that his biggest fear in playing the role of Cupid was the chance that he would have to wear diapers, and has joked, “If that was the case, then I was going to ask for at least one million dollars per episode!” One of his first questions before accepting the part was, \"Am I going to be naked the whole time?\" When asked if he would be wearing Cupid's iconic diaper and wings, Webster quipped, \"Big safety pins down the side,\" before explaining that he would in fact be \"dressed very dapper – suits, button-down shirts, sports coats.\"\n\nDiscussing the challenges of playing a mythological character, the actor says that his approach was to make Coop a \"real person\". He explains, \"If you get into the mythological character and you start playing it otherworldly, it just comes off weird. I think he would just be a regular guy. He'd be very charming. He'd be very confident. Let's say he wasn't Cupid, let's say he's a master of love, what would he have? That's how I start looking at it. I think he'd have a great sense of humor, sense of style. He can probably dance and cook and tell good jokes, be a lot of fun, have a lot of positive energy, want to lift you up. Obviously he would take great care of himself. He would look immaculate the whole time.\"\n\nAll of Coop's powers, with the exception of telekinesis, immortality, beaming, sensing, and regeneration, were shown to derive from his ring. However, in earlier seasons, cupids did require their rings to teleport. Coop has used these additional powers via his ring:\n\nBesides his ring, Coop also owns a Cupid's Bow, which was introduced in Issue #11 of the comic, \"Last Witch Effort\".\n"}
{"id": "2582448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2582448", "title": "Cosmic pluralism", "text": "Cosmic pluralism\n\nCosmic pluralism, the plurality of worlds, or simply pluralism, describes the philosophical belief in numerous \"worlds\" (planets, dwarf planets or natural satellites) in addition to Earth (possibly an infinite number), which may harbour extraterrestrial life.\n\nThe debate over pluralism began as early as the time of Anaximander (c. 610 – c. 546 BC) as a metaphysical argument, long predating the scientific Copernican conception that the Earth is one of numerous planets. It has continued, in a variety of forms, until the modern era.\n\nIn Greek times, the debate was largely philosophical and did not conform to present notions of cosmology. Cosmic pluralism was a corollary to notions of infinity and the purported multitude of life-bearing worlds were more akin to parallel universes (either contemporaneously in space or infinitely recurring in time) than to different solar systems. After Anaximander opened the door to an infinite universe, a strong pluralist stance was adopted by the atomists, notably Leucippus, Democritus, and Epicurus. While these were prominent thinkers, their opponents—Plato and Aristotle—had greater effect. They argued that the Earth is unique and that there can be no other systems of worlds. This stance neatly dovetailed with later Christian ideas and pluralism was effectively suppressed for approximately a millennium.\n\nMany medieval Muslim scholars endorsed the idea of cosmic pluralism. Imam Muhammad al-Baqir (676–733) wrote \"Maybe you see that God created only this single world and that God did not create humans besides you. Well, I swear by God that God created thousands and thousands of worlds and\nthousands and thousands of humankind.\"\n\nFakhr ad-Din ar-Razi (1149–1209), in dealing with his conception of physics and the physical world in his Matalib, rejects the Aristotelian and Avicennian notion of the Earth's centrality within the universe. Instead he argues that there are \"a thousand thousand worlds (alfa alfi 'awalim) beyond this world such that each one of those worlds be bigger and more massive than this world as well as having the like of what this world has.\" To support his theological argument, he cites the Qur'anic verse, \"All praise belongs to God, Lord of the Worlds,\" in surah fatiha emphasizing the term \"Worlds.\"\n\nTwo Qur'anic verses support the idea of God being Lord of multiple worlds: 1:2 and 41:09. Qur'an 16:8 says \"He has created other things of which ye have no knowledge.\"\n\nCosmic pluralism was depicted in fictional Arabic literature. \"The Adventures of Bulukiya\", a tale from the \"One Thousand and One Nights\" (\"Arabian Nights\"), depicted a cosmos consisting of different worlds, some larger than Earth and each with their own inhabitants.\n\nEventually the Ptolemaic-Aristotelian system was challenged and pluralism reasserted, first tentatively by scholastics and then more seriously by followers of Copernicus. The telescope appeared to prove that a multitude of life was reasonable and an expression of God's creative omnipotence; still powerful theological opponents, meanwhile, continued to insist that although the Earth may have been displaced from the center of the cosmos, it was still the unique focus of God's creation. Thinkers such as Johannes Kepler were willing to admit the possibility of pluralism without truly supporting it.\n\nGiordano Bruno introduced in his works the idea of multiple worlds instantiating the infinite possibilities of a pristine, indivisible One. Bruno (from the mouth of his character Philotheo) in his \"De l'infinito universo et mondi\" (1584) claims that \"innumerable celestial bodies, stars, globes, suns and earths may be sensibly perceived therein by us and an infinite number of them may be inferred by our own reason.\"\n\nTeaching this was among the charges the Inquisition made against him.\n\nDuring the Scientific Revolution and the later Enlightenment, cosmic pluralism became a mainstream possibility. Bernard Le Bovier de Fontenelle's \"Entretiens sur la pluralité des mondes\" (\"Conversations on the Plurality of Worlds\") of 1686 was an important work from this period, speculating on pluralism and describing the new Copernican cosmology. Pluralism was also championed by philosophers such as John Locke, astronomers such as William Herschel and even politicians, including John Adams and Benjamin Franklin. As greater scientific skepticism and rigour were applied to the question it ceased to be simply a matter of philosophy and theology and was properly bounded by astronomy and biology.\n\nThe French astronomer Camille Flammarion was one of the chief proponents of cosmic pluralism during the latter half of the nineteenth century. His first book, \"La pluralité des mondes habités\" (1862) was a great popular success, going through 33 editions in its first twenty years. Flammarion was one of the first people to put forward the idea that extraterrestrial beings were genuinely alien, and not simply variations of earthly creatures.\n\nIn the late nineteenth and twentieth centuries the term \"cosmic pluralism\" became largely archaic as knowledge diversified and the speculation on extraterrestrial life focused on particular bodies and observations. The historic debate continues to have modern parallels, however. Carl Sagan and Frank Drake, for instance, could well be considered \"pluralists\" while proponents of the Rare Earth hypothesis are modern skeptics.\n\nModern Islamic scholars like Abdullah Yusuf Ali point to the Qur'an (42:29) to argue for life on other planets: \"And among His Signs is the creation of the heavens and the earth, and the living creatures that He has scattered through them\". The verses uses the word \"da’bbah\", which denotes living creatures on the surface of a planet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8286938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8286938", "title": "Cynthia Kenyon", "text": "Cynthia Kenyon\n\nCynthia Jane Kenyon (February 21, 1954) is an American molecular biologist and biogerontologist known for her genetic dissection of aging in a widely used model organism, the roundworm \"Caenorhabditis elegans\" and professor at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF).\n\nCynthia Kenyon graduated valedictorian in chemistry and biochemistry from the University of Georgia in 1976. She received her PhD in 1981 from MIT where, in Graham Walker's laboratory, she looked for genes on the basis of their activity profiles, discovering that DNA-damaging agents activate a battery of DNA repair genes in E. coli. She then did postdoctoral studies with Nobel laureate Sydney Brenner at the MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology in Cambridge, England, studying the development of \"C. elegans.\"\n\nSince 1986 she has been at the University of California, San Francisco (UCSF), where she was the Herbert Boyer Distinguished Professor of Biochemistry and Biophysics and is now an American Cancer Society Professor. In 1999 she co-founded Elixir Pharmaceuticals with Leonard Guarente to try to discover and develop drugs that would slow down the process that makes people age.\n\nIn April 2014, Kenyon was named Vice President of Aging Research at Calico, a new company focused on health, well-being, and longevity. Prior to that, she served as a part-time advisor beginning in November 2013. Kenyon will remain affiliated with UCSF as an emeritus professor.\n\nHer early work led to the discovery that Hox genes, which were known to pattern the body segments of the fruit fly (\"Drosophila\") also pattern the body of \"C. elegans\". These findings demonstrated that Hox genes were not simply involved in segmentation, as thought, but instead were part of a much more ancient and fundamental metazoan patterning system.\n\nMichael Klass discovered that lifespan of \"C. elegans\" could be altered by mutations, but Klass believed that the effect was due to reduced food consumption (caloric restriction). Thomas Johnson later showed that the 65% life extension effect was due to the mutation itself rather than due to caloric restriction. In 1993, Kenyon's discovery that a single-gene mutation (Daf-2) could double the lifespan of \"C. elegans\" and that this could be reversed by a second mutation in daf-16m, sparked an intensive study of the molecular biology of aging, including work by Leonard Guarente and David Sinclair. Kenyon's findings have led to the discovery that an evolutionarily-conserved hormone signaling system influences aging in other organisms, perhaps also including mammals.\n\nKenyon has received many honors, including the King Faisal Prize for Medicine, the American Association of Medical Colleges Award for Distinguished Research, the Ilse & Helmut Wachter Award for Exceptional Scientific Achievement, and La Fondation IPSEN Prize, for her findings. She is a member of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. She was President of the Genetics Society of America for 2003. She is also one of featured biologists in the 1995 science documentary Death by Design / The Life and Times of Life and Times.\n\nKenyon's research prompted her to make personal dietary changes.\n\nIn 2000, when she discovered that putting sugar on the worms' food shortened their lifespans, she stopped eating high glycemic index carbohydrates and started eating a low-carbohydrate diet.\n\nShe briefly experimented with a calorie restriction diet for two days, but couldn't stand the constant hunger.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9138", "title": "Davros", "text": "Davros\n\nDavros is a character from the long-running British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". He was created by screenwriter Terry Nation, originally for the 1975 serial \"Genesis of the Daleks\". Davros is a major enemy of the series' protagonist, the Doctor, and is the creator of the Doctor's deadliest enemies, the Daleks. Davros is a genius who has mastered many areas of science, but also a megalomaniac who believes that through his creations he can become the supreme being and ruler of the Universe. The character has been compared to the infamous dictator Adolf Hitler several times, including by the actor Terry Molloy, while Julian Bleach defined him as a cross between Hitler and the renowned scientist Stephen Hawking.\n\nDavros is from the planet Skaro, whose people, the Kaleds, were engaged in a bitter thousand-year war of attrition with their enemies, the Thals. He is horribly scarred and disabled, a condition that various spin-off media attribute to his laboratory being attacked by a Thal shell. He has one functioning hand and one cybernetic eye mounted on his forehead to take the place of his real eyes, which he is not able to open for long; for much of his existence he depends completely upon a self-designed mobile life-support chair in place of his lower body. It would become an obvious inspiration for his eventual design of the Dalek. The lower half of his body is absent and he is physically incapable of leaving the chair for more than a few minutes without dying. Davros' voice, like those of the Daleks, is electronically distorted. His manner of speech is generally soft and contemplative, but when angered or excited he is prone to ranting outbursts that resemble the hysterical, staccatissimo speech of the Daleks.\n\nDavros first appeared in the 1975 serial \"Genesis of the Daleks\", written by Terry Nation. Nation, creator of the Dalek concept, had deliberately modelled elements of the Daleks' character on Nazi ideology, and conceived of their creator as a scientist with strong fascist tendencies. The physical appearance of Davros was developed by visual effects designer Peter Day and sculptor John Friedlander, who based Davros' chair on the lower half of a Dalek. Producer Philip Hinchcliffe told Friedlander to consider a design similar to the Mekon from the \"Eagle\" comic \"Dan Dare\", with a large dome-like head and a withered body.\n\nCast in the role of Davros was Michael Wisher, who had previously appeared in several different roles on \"Doctor Who\" and had provided Dalek voices in the serials \"Frontier in Space\", \"Planet of the Daleks\" and \"Death to the Daleks\". Wisher based his performance as Davros on the philosopher Bertrand Russell. In order to prepare for filming under the heavy mask, Wisher rehearsed wearing a paper bag over his head. Friedlander's mask was cast in hard latex, with only the mouth revealing Wisher's features; make-up artist Sylvia James shaded the mask's tones and blackened Wisher's lips and teeth to hide the transition.\n\nIn the \"Destiny of the Daleks\", Davros is played by David Gooderson using the mask Friedlander made for Wisher after it was split into intersecting sections to get as good a fit as possible. When Terry Molloy took over the role in \"Resurrection of the Daleks\", a new mask was designed by Stan Mitchell.\n\nThe Fourth Doctor (Tom Baker) first encountered Davros (Michael Wisher) in \"Genesis of the Daleks\" when he and his companions were sent to Skaro to avert the creation of the Daleks. As chief scientist of the Kaleds and leader of their elite scientific division, Davros devised new military strategies in order to win his people's thousand-year war against the Thal race that also occupies Skaro. When Davros learned his people were evolving from exposure to nuclear and biological weapons used in the war, he artificially accelerates the process to his design and stores the resulting tentacle creatures in tank-like \"Mark III travel machines\" partly based on the design of his wheelchair. He later names these creatures \"Daleks\", an anagram of Kaleds.\n\nDavros quickly becomes obsessed with his creations, considering them to be the ultimate form of life compared to others. When other Kaleds attempted to thwart his project, Davros arranges the extinction of his own people by using the Thals, whom he mostly killed with the Daleks later. Davros then weeds out those in elite scientific division who are loyal to him so he can have the Daleks eliminate the rest. However, the Daleks ultimately turn on Davros, killing his supporters before shooting him when he tries to halt the Dalek production line.\n\nIn \"Destiny of the Daleks\", it is revealed that Davros (now played by David Gooderson) was not killed, but placed in suspended animation and buried underground. The Daleks unearth their creator to help them break a logical impasse in their war against the android Movellans. However, the Dalek force is destroyed by the Doctor, and Davros is captured and imprisoned in suspended animation by the humans, before being taken to Earth to face trial.\n\nIn the Fifth Doctor story \"Resurrection of the Daleks\", Davros (Terry Molloy) is released from his space station prison by small Dalek force aided by human mercenaries and Dalek duplicates. The Daleks require Davros to find an antidote for a Movellan-created virus that has all but wiped them out. Believing his creations to be treacherous, Davros begins using mind control on Daleks and humans, ultimately releasing the virus to kill off the Daleks before they can exterminate him. Davros expresses a desire to build a new and improved race of Daleks, but he apparently succumbs to the virus himself before he can escape, his physiology being close enough to that of the Daleks for the virus to affect him.\n\nBut in the Sixth Doctor story \"Revelation of the Daleks\", Davros goes into hiding as \"The Great Healer\" of the funeral and cryogenic preservation centre Tranquil Repose on the planet Necros. There, creating a clone of his head to serve as a decoy while modifying his body to fire electric bolts and his chair able to hover, Davros uses the frozen bodies to engineer a new variety of white armoured Daleks loyal to him, but he is captured by the original Daleks and taken to Skaro to face trial.\n\nDavros appears as the Emperor Dalek in \"Remembrance of the Daleks\", with his white and gold Daleks now based on Skaro and termed \"Imperial Daleks\", fighting against the grey \"Renegade Dalek\" faction. By this time, Davros has been physically transplanted into a customised Dalek casing. He is only revealed as the Emperor in the final episode. Both Skaro and the Imperial Dalek mothership are apparently destroyed (in the future) when the Seventh Doctor tricks Davros into using the Time Lord artefact known as the Hand of Omega which makes Skaro's Sun go supernova. However, a Dalek on the bridge of Davros' ship reports that the Emperor's escape pod is being launched and a white light is seen speeding away from the ship moments before its destruction, leaving a clear route to bring Davros back in the future.\n\nDuring the revived series, Davros was referred to in the episode \"Dalek\" (2005) by the Ninth Doctor (Christopher Eccleston), who explains that the Daleks were created by \"a genius... a man who was king of his own little world\", and again by the Tenth Doctor (David Tennant) in the episode \"Evolution of the Daleks\" (2007), where he refers to the Daleks' creator as believing that \"removing emotions makes you stronger\". Davros makes his first official appearance in the episode \"The Stolen Earth\" (2008), portrayed by Julian Bleach. The episode reveals that Davros was thought to have died during the first year of the Time War, when his command ship \"flew into the jaws of the Nightmare Child\" at the Gates of Elysium despite the Doctor's failed efforts to save him. But Davros was pulled out of the time lock of the war by Dalek Caan (voiced by Nicholas Briggs), using his own flesh to create a \"new empire\" of Daleks who place him in the Vault as their prisoner to make use of his knowledge. Under Davros' guidance, the Daleks steal 27 planets, including Earth, and hide them in the Medusa Cascade, one second out of sync with the rest of the universe.\n\nIn the follow-up episode \"Journey's End\" (2008), it is revealed that the stolen planets are required as a power source for Davros' ideal final solution: the reality bomb, which produces a wavelength that would cancel out the electrical field binding atoms to reduce all life outside the Crucible into nothingness in both his universe and countless other realities. But Davros learns too late that Dalek Caan, who came to the realisation of his race's atrocities as a consequence of saving his creator, used his prophecies and influence to ensure the Daleks' destruction while manipulating events to bring the Tenth Doctor and Donna Noble (Catherine Tate) together for the role the latter would play. Though the Doctor attempts to save him, having earlier taunted the Doctor for turning his companions into killers and being the cause of the deaths of countless people during his travels, Davros furiously refuses the Doctor's help and accuses him of being responsible for the destruction while screaming: \"Never forget, Doctor, you did this! I name you forever: \"You\" are the Destroyer of Worlds!\" Thus the Doctor is forced to leave Davros to his fate as the Crucible self-destructs.\n\nDavros returns in the two-part Series 9 opening \"The Magician's Apprentice\" and \"The Witch's Familiar\" (2015), having escaped the Crucible's destruction and ending up on a restored Skaro with his life being prolonged by the Daleks. But when the aged Davros' health begins to fail, he remembers his childhood self, played by Joey Price, meeting the Twelfth Doctor (Peter Capaldi) during the Kaleds' thousand-year war prior to \"Genesis of the Daleks\". The young Davros finds himself lost on the battlefield and surrounded by handmines, with the Doctor throwing his sonic screwdriver to the boy with the intent to save him before learning his name and leaving the child to his fate. Davros, seeking a final revenge on the Doctor, employs Colony Sarff (Jami Reid-Quarrell) to bring him to Skaro. When it appears that the Doctor has lost his companion Clara Oswald (Jenna Coleman) to the Daleks, Davros manages to trick the Doctor into using his regeneration energy to heal him, extending his own life while infusing every Dalek on Skaro with the energy. But the Doctor reveals Davros' scheme has also revitalised the decomposing Daleks left to rot in Skaro's sewers, causing them to revolt and destroy the city. The Doctor then discovers the Daleks have a concept of mercy and are allowed to have the word in their vocabulary when he encounters Clara having disguised herself in a Dalek's robotic chassis. The Doctor and Clara escape, the former having an epiphany as to how Davros somehow put a sliver of compassion into the Daleks. He then returns to the battlefield in Davros' childhood, using a Dalek gun to destroy the handmines with the one bit of compassion in Davros' life instilled in the Daleks' design to ensure Clara being saved.\n\n\"Doctor Who Magazine\" printed several comics stories involving Davros. The first, \"Nemesis of the Daleks\" (#152–155), with the Seventh Doctor, features an appearance of a Dalek Emperor. Speaking with the Emperor, the Doctor addresses him as Davros, but the Emperor responds \"Who is Davros?\" The Doctor initially assumes Davros' personality has been totally subsumed, but in the later strip \"Emperor of the Daleks\" (#197–202) this Emperor is shown as a different entity from Davros. Set prior to \"Remembrance of the Daleks\" in Davros' timeline, but after in the timeline of the Doctor, the latter, accompanied by Bernice Summerfield, together with help from the Sixth Doctor, ensures that Davros will survive the wrath of the Daleks so that he can assume the title of Emperor, allowing history to take its course. \"Up Above the Gods\" (#227), a vignette following up on this, features the Sixth Doctor and Davros having a conversation in the TARDIS.\n\nTerry Molloy has reprised his role as Davros in the spin-off audio plays produced by Big Finish Productions, mostly notably \"Davros\" (taking place during the Sixth Doctor's era), which, through flashbacks, explored the scientist's life prior to his crippling injury, which is attributed to a Thal nuclear attack (an idea that first appeared in Terrance Dicks' novelisation of \"Genesis of the Daleks\").\n\n\"Davros\", which does not feature the Daleks, apparently fills in the gaps between \"Resurrection of the Daleks\" and \"Revelation of the Daleks\", and has the scientist trying to manipulate the galaxy's economy into a war footing similar to Skaro's. The Sixth Doctor manages to defeat his plans, and Davros is last heard when his ship explodes, an event obliquely mentioned in \"Revelation\". However the Doctor thinks he has survived. Davros also mentions he will work on a plan to combat famine, tying into Revelation of the Daleks.\n\n\"The Davros Mission\" is an original audio adventure (without the Doctor) available on the Complete Davros Collection DVD box set. It takes place directly after the television story \"Revelation\", while leaving the planet Necros and beginning Davros' trial. At the end of \"Davros Mission\", he turns the tables on the Daleks, forcing them to do his bidding. The Big Finish miniseries I, Davros, also features trial scenes, but mostly explores his early life. In those four stories, his journey is seen from his boyhood, to just before \"Genesis of the Daleks\".\n\n\"The Curse of Davros\" begins with Davros and the Daleks working together to try and alter the outcome of the Battle of Waterloo using technology that Davros has created that allows him to swap peoples' minds, with matters becoming more complicated when the Sixth Doctor uses the device to swap bodies with Davros in an attempt to subvert the Daleks' plans from the inside. At the end, Davros and the Doctor are returned to their original bodies with the aid of the Doctor's new companion Flip Jackson, and Davros is left with an army of Daleks who have had their minds wiped. These Daleks presumably become the \"Imperial Daleks\", first seen in \"Remembrance of the Daleks\".\n\nIn \"The Juggernauts\", Davros is on the run from the original Daleks. He hatches a plan to add human tissue to robotic Mechanoids, using them, along with his own Daleks, to destroy the originals. At the end of the story, the self-destruct mechanism of Davros' life-support chair explodes, destroying an entire human colony. It is not clear how Davros survives to become the Dalek Emperor as seen in \"Remembrance\". However, in the DVD, the Davros Connections, director Gary Russell points out that the explosion of Davros' life-support chair leaves the listener to believe there is little of Davros left. This fits chronologically the fact that in \"Remembrance\" Davros is seen as a head inside the Emperor Dalek.\n\nIn \"Daleks Among Us\", Davros returns to Azimuth, a planet that was invaded by the Daleks long ago, presenting himself as a victim of Dalek enslavement to infiltrate an underground movement against the repressive government- so desperate to prevent riots about individual actions during the Dalek occupation that official policy is now that the Dalek invasion never happened- seeking the remnants of an old experiment he carried out on the planet. This experiment is revealed to be Falkus, a clone of Davros's original body that was intended to be a new host for his mind, with Falkus having evolved an independent personality since the Daleks left Azimuth. Falkus attempts to acquire the Persuasion Machine, a dangerous device that the Seventh Doctor has been tracking with his companions Elizabeth Klein and Will Arrowsmith, but the Doctor is able to trick Falkus into using the reprogrammed Persuasion Machine to destroy himself and his Daleks, while Davros flees in an escape pod. Davros is last shown trapped on the planet Lamuria, faced with the spectral former residents of the planet who sought to punish all criminals in the universe. \n\nBy the time of the Eighth Doctor audio play \"Terror Firma\" (set after \"Remembrance\"), Davros is commanding a Dalek army which has successfully conquered the Earth. His mental instability has grown to the point where \"Davros\" and \"the Emperor\" exist within him as different personalities. His Daleks recognise this instability and rebel against Davros. By the story's end the Emperor personality is dominant, and the Daleks agree to follow him and leave Earth.\n\n\"Terror Firma\" may contradict the events of the Eighth Doctor Adventures novel \"War of the Daleks\" by John Peel, in which an unmerged Davros is placed on trial by the Dalek Prime, a combination of the Dalek Emperor and the Dalek Supreme. In the novel the Dalek Prime claimed that the planet Antalin had been terraformed to resemble Skaro and was destroyed in its place. A subterfuge to destroy Daleks aligned to Davros; both on Skaro (Antalin) and those that remained hidden within Dalek ranks on Skaro (original). Despite finding evidence of threat to Skaro via evidence found on 22nd century earth of Davros' mission to 1960s Earth and seeing the event via time-tracking equipment, the Dalek Prime allowed the destruction of Skaro to destroy Daleks allied to Davros. Dalek Prime also claimed that the Dalek/Movellan war (and indeed most of Dalek history before the destruction of \"Skaro\") was actually faked for Davros' benefit; in fact another ruse designed to bait Davros into giving evidence against himself (as he does in his trial.) Skaro is later seen to be intact and undamaged, and one character notes that it is quite possible the Dalek Prime is lying in order to weaken Davros' claim to leadership of the Daleks, while using foreknowledge of events to destroy and entrap Davros and his allies.\n\n\"War of the Daleks\", like the comic strips and audio plays, is of uncertain canonicity when it comes to the television series. At the conclusion of \"War\", Davros was seemingly disintegrated by a Spider Dalek on the order of the Dalek Prime. However, Davros had previously recruited one of the Spider Daleks as a sleeper agent for just such an eventuality, and even he was not certain in the end if he was being disintegrated or being teleported away to safety, leaving the possibility open for his return.\n\nPaul Cornell's dark vignette in the \"Doctor Who Magazine\" Brief Encounters series, \"An Incident Concerning the Bombardment of the Phobos Colony\" occurs sometime between \"Resurrection of the Daleks\" and his assumption of the role of Emperor.\n\nIn 1993, Michael Wisher, the original Davros, with Peter Miles, who had played his confederate, Nyder, reprised the role in an unlicensed one-off amateur stage production, \"The Trial of Davros\". The plot of the play involved the Time Lords putting Davros on trial, with Nyder as a witness.\n\nTerry Molloy played Davros in the remounting of the play, again with Miles, for another one-off production in 2005. During the production, specially shot footage portrayed Dalek atrocities.\n\nIn 2008, Julian Bleach appeared live as Davros at the Doctor Who Prom, announcing that the Royal Albert Hall would become his new palace, and the audience his \"obedient slaves\".\n\nBBC staff have traditionally created parodies of its own programming to be shown to colleagues at Christmas events and parties. The BBC's 1993 Christmas tape parodied the allegedly robotic, dictatorial and ruthless management style of its then Director-General, John Birt, by portraying him as Davros taking over the BBC, carrying out bizarre mergers of departments, awarding himself a bonus and singing a song to the tune of I Wan'na Be Like You describing his plans.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn 26 November 2007, a DVD boxset was released featuring all of the Davros stories from the shows original run, including \"Genesis of the Daleks\", \"Destiny of the Daleks\", \"Resurrection of the Daleks\", \"Revelation of the Daleks\", and \"Remembrance of the Daleks\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15016661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15016661", "title": "Elia Abu Madi", "text": "Elia Abu Madi\n\nElia Abu Madi (also known as Elia D. Madey; \"\") (15 May 1890 – 23 November 1957) was a Lebanese poet.\n\nAbu Madi was born in the village of Al-Muhaydithah, now part of Bikfaya, Lebanon, in 15 May 1890 in a Christian family. At the age of 11 he moved to Alexandria, Egypt where he worked with his uncle.\n\nIn 1911, Elia Abu madi published his first collection of poems, \"Tazkar al-Madi\". Shortly after, he was exiled by the Ottoman Turkish authorities and he left Egypt for the United States, where he settled in Cincinnati, Ohio. In 1916 he moved to New York and began a career in journalism. In New York Abu Madi met and worked with a number of Arab-American poets including Kahlil Gibran. He married the daughter of Najeeb Diab, editor of the Arabic-language magazine \"Meraat ul-Gharb\", and became the chief editor of that publication in 1918. His second poetry collection, \"Diwan Iliya Abu Madi\", was published in New York in 1919; his third and most important collection, \"Al-Jadawil\" (\"The Streams\"), appeared in 1927. His other books were \"Al-Khama'il\" (\"The Tickets\")(1940) and \"Tibr wa Turab\" (posthumous, 1960).\n\nIn 1929 Abu Madi founded his own periodical, \"Al-Samir\", in Brooklyn. It began as a monthly but after a few years appeared five times a week.\n\nHis poems are very well known among Arabs; poet, author, and journalist Gregory Orfalea wrote that \"his poetry is as commonplace and memorized in the Arab world as that of Robert Frost is in ours.\"\n\nSee also a photo of Elia Abu Madi as a member of al-Rabita (Pen League).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5975230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5975230", "title": "Ethnic bioweapon", "text": "Ethnic bioweapon\n\nAn ethnic bioweapon (\"biogenetic weapon\") is a type of theoretical bioweapon that aims to harm only or primarily people of specific ethnicities or genotypes.\n\nOne of the first modern fictional discussions of ethnic weapons is in Robert A. Heinlein's 1942 novel \"Sixth Column\" (republished as \"The Day After Tomorrow\"), in which a race-specific radiation weapon is used against a so-called \"Pan-Asian\" invader.\n\nIn 1997, U.S. Secretary of Defense William Cohen referred to the concept of an ethnic bioweapon as a possible risk. In 1998 some biological weapon experts considered such a \"genetic weapon\" plausible, and believed the former Soviet Union had undertaken some research on the influence of various substances on human genes.\n\nIn its 2000 policy paper Rebuilding America's Defenses, think-tank Project for the New American Century (PNAC) described ethnic bioweapons as a potentially \"politically useful tool\". PNAC went on to provide substantial staffing for the Bush Jr administration.\n\nThe possibility of a \"genetic bomb\" is presented in Vincent Sarich's and Frank Miele's book, \"\", published in 2004. These authors view such weapons as technically feasible but not very likely to be used. (page 248 of paperback edition.)\n\nIn 2004, \"The Guardian\" reported that the British Medical Association (BMA) considered bioweapons designed to target certain ethnic groups as a possibility, and highlighted problems that advances in science for such things as \"treatment to Alzheimer's and other debilitating diseases could also be used for malign purposes\".\n\nIn 2005, the official view of the International Committee of the Red Cross was \"The potential to target a particular ethnic group with a biological agent is probably not far off. These scenarios are not the product of the ICRC's imagination but have either occurred or been identified by countless independent and governmental experts.\"\n\nIn 2008, the US government held a congressional committee, ‘Genetics and other human modification technologies: sensible international regulation or a new kind of arms race?’, during which it was discussed how “we can anticipate a world where rogue (and even not-so-rogue) states and non-state actors attempt to manipulate human genetics in ways that will horrify us”.\n\nIn 2012, \"The Atlantic\" wrote that a specific virus that targets individuals with a specific DNA sequence is within possibility in the near future. The magazine put forward a hypothetical scenario of a virus which caused mild flu to the general population but deadly symptoms to the President of the United States. They cite advances in personalized gene therapy as evidence.\n\nIn 2016, \"Foreign Policy\" magazine suggested the possibility of a virus used as an ethnic bioweapon that could sterilize a \"genetically-related ethnic population.\"\n\nIn November 1998, \"The Sunday Times\" reported that Israel was attempting to build an \"ethno-bomb\" containing a biological agent that could specifically target genetic traits present amongst Arab populations. \"Wired News\" also reported the story, as did \"Foreign Report\".\n\nMicrobiologists and geneticists were skeptical towards the scientific plausibility of such a biological agent. The \"New York Post\", describing the claims as \"blood libel\", reported that the likely source for the story was a work of science fiction by Israeli academic Doron Stanitsky. Stanitsky had sent his completely fictional work about such a weapon to Israeli newspapers two years before. The article also noted the views of genetic researchers who claimed the idea as \"wholly fantastical\", with others claiming that the weapon was theoretically possible.\n\nA planned second installment of the article never appeared, and no sources were ever identified. Neither of the authors of the \"Sunday Times\" story, Uzi Mahnaimi and Marie Colvin, have spoken publicly on the matter.\n\nIn May 2007, a Russian newspaper \"Kommersant\" reported that the Russian government banned all exports of human biosamples.\nThe report claims that the reason for the ban was a secret FSB report about on-going development of \"genetic bioweapons\" targeting Russian population by Western institutions. The report mentions the Harvard School of Public Health, American International Health Alliance, Department of Medical Biotechnology of Jagiellonian University, United States Department of Justice Environment and Natural Resources Division, Institute of Genetics and Biotechnology Warsaw University, and United States Agency for International Development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9619", "title": "Extremophile", "text": "Extremophile\n\nAn extremophile (from Latin ' meaning \"extreme\" and Greek ' () meaning \"love\") is an organism that thrives in physically or geochemically extreme conditions that are detrimental to most life on Earth. In contrast, organisms that live in more moderate environments may be termed mesophiles or neutrophiles.\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, biologists found that microbial life has great flexibility for surviving in extreme environments—niches that are acidic or extraordinarily hot, for example—that would be completely inhospitable to complex organisms. Some scientists even concluded that life may have begun on Earth in hydrothermal vents far under the ocean's surface.\n\nAccording to astrophysicist Steinn Sigurdsson, \"There are viable bacterial spores that have been found that are 40 million years old on Earth—and we know they're very hardened to radiation.\" Some bacteria were found living in the cold and dark in a lake buried a half-mile deep under the ice in Antarctica, and in the Marianas Trench, the deepest place in Earth's oceans. Some microorganisms have been found thriving inside rocks up to below the sea floor under of ocean off the coast of the northwestern United States. According to one of the researchers, \"You can find microbes everywhere—they're extremely adaptable to conditions, and survive wherever they are.\" A key to extremophile adaptation is their amino acid composition, affecting their protein folding ability under particular conditions.\n\nThere are many classes of extremophiles that range all around the globe, each corresponding to the way its environmental niche differs from mesophilic conditions. These classifications are not exclusive. Many extremophiles fall under multiple categories and are classified as polyextremophiles. For example, organisms living inside hot rocks deep under Earth's surface are thermophilic and barophilic such as \"Thermococcus barophilus\". A polyextremophile living at the summit of a mountain in the Atacama Desert might be a radioresistant xerophile, a psychrophile, and an oligotroph. Polyextremophiles are well known for their ability to tolerate both high and low pH levels.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAstrobiology is the study of the origin, evolution, distribution, and future of life in the universe: extraterrestrial life and life on Earth. Astrobiology makes use of physics, chemistry, astronomy, solar physics, biology, molecular biology, ecology, planetary science, geography, and geology to investigate the possibility of life on other worlds and help recognize biospheres that might be different from that on Earth. Astrobiologists are particularly interested in studying extremophiles, as their habitats may be analogous to conditions on other planets. For example, analogous deserts of Antarctica are exposed to harmful UV radiation, low temperature, high salt concentration and low mineral concentration. These conditions are similar to those on Mars. Therefore, finding viable microbes in the subsurface of Antarctica suggests that there may be microbes surviving in endolithic communities and living under the Martian surface. Research indicates it is unlikely that Martian microbes exist on the surface or at shallow depths, but may be found at subsurface depths of around 100 meters.\n\nRecent research carried out on extremophiles in Japan involved a variety of bacteria including \"Escherichia coli\" and \"Paracoccus denitrificans\" being subject to conditions of extreme gravity. The bacteria were cultivated while being rotated in an ultracentrifuge at high speeds corresponding to 403,627 g (i.e. 403,627 times the gravity experienced on Earth). \"Paracoccus denitrificans\" was one of the bacteria which displayed not only survival but also robust cellular growth under these conditions of hyperacceleration which are usually found only in cosmic environments, such as on very massive stars or in the shock waves of supernovas. Analysis showed that the small size of prokaryotic cells is essential for successful growth under hypergravity. The research has implications on the feasibility of panspermia.\n\nOn 26 April 2012, scientists reported that lichen survived and showed remarkable results on the adaptation capacity of photosynthetic activity within the simulation time of 34 days under Martian conditions in the Mars Simulation Laboratory (MSL) maintained by the German Aerospace Center (DLR).\n\nOn 29 April 2013, scientists at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, funded by NASA, reported that, during spaceflight on the International Space Station, microbes seem to adapt to the space environment in ways \"not observed on Earth\" and in ways that \"can lead to increases in growth and virulence\".\n\nOn 19 May 2014, scientists announced that numerous microbes, like \"Tersicoccus phoenicis\", may be resistant to methods usually used in spacecraft assembly clean rooms. It's not currently known if such resistant microbes could have withstood space travel and are present on the \"Curiosity\" rover now on the planet Mars.\n\nOn 20 August 2014, scientists confirmed the existence of microorganisms living half a mile below the ice of Antarctica.\n\nOn September 2015, scientists from CNR-National Research Council of Italy reported that \"S.soflataricus\" was able to survive under Martian radiation at a wavelength that was considered extremely lethal to most bacteria. This discovery is significant because it indicates that not only bacterial spores, but also growing cells can be remarkably resistant to strong UV radiation.\n\nOn June 2016, scientists from Brigham Young University conclusively reported that endospores of \"Bacillus subtilis\" were able to survive high speed impacts up to 299±28 m/s, extreme shock, and extreme deceleration. They pointed out that this feature might allow endospores to survive and to be transferred between planets by traveling within meteorites or by experiencing atmosphere disruption. Moreover, they suggested that the landing of spacecraft may also result in interplanetary spore transfer, given that spores can survive high-velocity impact while ejected from the spacecraft onto the planet surface. This is the first study which reported that bacteria can survive in such high-velocity impact. However, the lethal impact speed is unknown, and further experiments should be done by introducing higher-velocity impact to bacterial endospores.\n\nNew sub-types of -philes are identified frequently and the sub-category list for extremophiles is always growing. For example, microbial life lives in the liquid asphalt lake, Pitch Lake. Research indicates that extremophiles inhabit the asphalt lake in populations ranging between 10 to 10 cells/gram. Likewise, until recently boron tolerance was unknown but a strong borophile was discovered in bacteria. With the recent isolation of \"Bacillus boroniphilus\", borophiles came into discussion. Studying these borophiles may help illuminate the mechanisms of both boron toxicity and boron deficiency.\n\nThe thermoalkaliphilic catalase, which initiates the breakdown of hydrogen peroxide into oxygen and water, was isolated from an organism, \"Thermus brockianus\", found in Yellowstone National Park by Idaho National Laboratory researchers. The catalase operates over a temperature range from 30 °C to over 94 °C and a pH range from 6–10. This catalase is extremely stable compared to other catalases at high temperatures and pH. In a comparative study, the \"T. brockianus\" catalase exhibited a half life of 15 days at 80 °C and pH 10 while a catalase derived from \"Aspergillus niger\" had a half life of 15 seconds under the same conditions. The catalase will have applications for removal of hydrogen peroxide in industrial processes such as pulp and paper bleaching, textile bleaching, food pasteurization, and surface decontamination of food packaging.\n\nDNA modifying enzymes such as \"Taq\" DNA polymerase and some \"Bacillus\" enzymes used in clinical diagnostics and starch liquefaction are produced commercially by several biotechnology companies.\n\nOver 65 prokaryotic species are known to be naturally competent for genetic transformation, the ability to transfer DNA from one cell to another cell followed by integration of the donor DNA into the recipient cell's chromosome. Several extremophiles are able to carry out species-specific DNA transfer, as described below. However, it is not yet clear how common such a capability is among extremophiles.\n\nThe bacterium \"Deinococcus radiodurans\" is one of the most radioresistant organisms known. This bacterium can also survive cold, dehydration, vacuum and acid and is thus known as a polyextremophile. \"D. radiodurans\" is competent to perform genetic transformation. Recipient cells are able to repair DNA damage in donor transforming DNA that had been UV irradiated as efficiently as they repair cellular DNA when the cells themselves are irradiated. The extreme thermophilic bacterium \"Thermus thermophilus\" and other related \"Thermus\" species are also capable of genetic transformation.\n\n\"Halobacterium volcanii\", an extreme halophilic (saline tolerant) archaeon, is capable of natural genetic transformation. Cytoplasmic bridges are formed between cells that appear to be used for DNA transfer from one cell to another in either direction.\n\n\"Sulfolobus solfataricus\" and \"Sulfolobus acidocaldarius\" are hyperthermophilic archaea. Exposure of these organisms to the DNA damaging agents UV irradiation, bleomycin or mitomycin C induces species-specific cellular aggregation. UV-induced cellular aggregation of \"S. acidocaldarius\" mediates chromosomal marker exchange with high frequency. Recombination rates exceed those of uninduced cultures by up to three orders of magnitude. Frols et al. and Ajon et al. hypothesized that cellular aggregation enhances species-specific DNA transfer between \"Sulfolobus\" cells in order to repair damaged DNA by means of homologous recombination. Van Wolferen et al. noted that this DNA exchange process may be crucial under DNA damaging conditions such as high temperatures. It has also been suggested that DNA transfer in \"Sulfolobus\" may be an early form of sexual interaction similar to the more well-studied bacterial transformation systems that involve species-specific DNA transfer leading to homologous recombinational repair of DNA damage (and see Transformation (genetics)).\n\nExtracellular membrane vesicles (MVs) might be involved in DNA transfer between different hyperthermophilic archaeal species. It has been shown that both plasmids and viral genomes can be transferred via MVs. Notably, a horizontal plasmid transfer has been documented between hyperthermophilic \"Thermococcus\" and \"Methanocaldococcus\" species, respectively belonging to the orders \"Thermococcales\" and \"Methanococcales\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11486336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11486336", "title": "Green Boots", "text": "Green Boots\n\nGreen Boots is the name given to the unidentified corpse of a climber that became a landmark on the main Northeast ridge route of Mount Everest. Though his identity has not been officially confirmed, he is believed to be Tsewang Paljor, an Indian climber who died on Mount Everest in 1996. The term \"Green Boots\" originated from the green mountaineering boots the body wore. All expeditions from the north side encountered the body curled in the limestone alcove cave at . In 2006, a different climber, David Sharp, died during a solo climb in what is known as \"Green Boots' Cave\".\n\nIn May 2014, Green Boots was reported missing, presumably removed or buried. In 2017, as a greater number of climbers returned, according to 2-stage hearsays he was noticed again at the same altitude and may have simply been covered with a few stones.\n\nThe first recorded video footage of Green Boots was filmed on 21 May 2001 by French climber Pierre Paperon. In the video, Green Boots is shown lying on his left side, facing toward the summit. According to Paperon, Sherpas told him that it was the body of a Chinese mountaineer who had attempted the climb six months earlier.\n\nOver time, the corpse became known both as a landmark on the north route and for its association with the death of David Sharp. However, in May 2014, Green Boots' body was reported to be missing from view, presumably removed or buried. A body was discovered hanging alongside a tent and other debris on the side of a cliff-face in 2017, which some have speculated to be the transported body of \"Green Boots\".\n\nGreen Boots is commonly believed to be Indian climber Tsewang Paljor, who was wearing green Koflach boots on the day he and two others in his party summited in 1996, although it is possible the body may instead have been that of his team member Dorje Morup. The Everest disaster of 1996 saw the deaths of eight climbers, which included five climbers from the Adventure Consultants and Mountain Madness expeditions on the southeast route, and three fatalities on the northeast route. These were the climbers from the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) expedition from India. The expedition was led by Commandant Mohinder Singh and was the first Indian ascent of Everest from the east side.\n\nOn 10 May 1996, Subedar Tsewang Samanla, Lance Naik Dorje Morup, and Head Constable Tsewang Paljor were caught in the blizzard, just short of the summit. While three of the six-member team turned back down, Samanla, Morup, and Paljor decided to go for the summit. At around 15:45 Nepal Time, the three climbers radioed to their expedition leader that they had arrived, a claim that was subsequently disputed by Jon Krakauer, who based on an analysis of an interview given by a later Japanese team, believes they may have stopped short of the topmost point but been confused by poor visibility. They left an offering of prayer flags, khatas, and pitons. Here, the leader Samanla decided to spend extra time for religious ceremonies and instructed the other two to move down.\n\nThere was no radio contact after that. Back at the camps below, team members saw two headlamps moving slightly above the Second Step — at . None of the three managed to come back to high camp at .\n\nControversy later arose over whether or not a team of Japanese climbers from Fukuoka had seen and potentially failed to assist the missing Indian climbers. The group had left their camp at at 06:15 Beijing time, reaching the summit at 15:07. Along the way, they encountered others on the trail. Unaware of the missing Indians, they believed these others, all of whom were wearing goggles and oxygen masks under their hoods, were members of a climbing party from Taiwan. During their descent, begun at 15:30, they reported seeing an unidentifiable object above the Second Step. Below the First Step, they radioed in to report seeing one person on a fixed rope. Thereafter, one of the climbers, Shigekawa, exchanged greetings with an unidentifiable man standing nearby. At that time, they had only enough oxygen to return to C6.\n\nAt 16:00, the Fukuoka party discovered from an Indian in their group that three men were missing. They offered to join the rescue but were declined. Forced to wait a day due to bad weather, they sent a second party to the summit on the 13th. They saw several bodies around the First Step, but continued to the summit.\n\nInitially, there were some misunderstandings and harsh words regarding the actions of the Fukuoka team, which were later clarified. According to Reuters, the Indian expedition had made claims that the Japanese had pledged to help with the search but instead had pressed forward with their summit attempt. The Japanese team denied that they had abandoned or refused to help the dying climbers on the way up, a claim that was accepted by the Indian-Tibetan Border Police. Captain Kohli, an official of the Indian Mountaineering Federation, who earlier had denounced the Japanese, later retracted his claim that the Japanese had reported meeting the Indians on 10 May.\n\nWhile it is commonly believed that Green Boots is the body of Head Constable Tsewang Paljor, a 1997 article, titled \"The Indian Ascent of Qomolungma by the North Ridge\", published by P. M. Das, deputy leader of the expedition in \"Himalayan Journal\", raises the possibility that it could instead be that of Lance Naik Dorje Morup. Das wrote that two climbers had been spotted descending by the light of their head-torches at 19:30, although they had soon been lost from sight. The next day the leader of the second summit group of the expedition radioed base camp that they had encountered Morup moving slowly between the First and Second Steps. Das wrote that Morup \"had refused to put on gloves over his frost-bitten hands\" and \"was finding difficulty in unclipping his safety carabiner at anchor points.\" According to Das, the Japanese team assisted in transitioning him to the next stretch of rope.\n\nThe Japanese group discovered the body of Tsewang Samanla above the Second Step later on. On the return trip, the group found that Morup was still making slow progress. Morup is believed to have died in the late afternoon on 11 May. Das states that Paljor's body was never found.\n\nA second ITBP group also came across the bodies of Samanla and Morup on their return from the summit. Das wrote that they encountered Morup \"lying under the shelter of a boulder near their line of descent, close to Camp 6\" with intact clothing and his rucksack by his side.\n\nGreen Boots joined the ranks of roughly 200 corpses remaining on Everest by the early 21st century. It is unknown when the term \"Green Boots\" entered Everest parlance. Over the years it became a common term, as all the expeditions from the north side encountered the body of the climber curled up in the limestone alcove cave. The cave is located at 27,890 feet (8,500 m) and is littered with oxygen bottles. It is located below the first step on the path. \n\nAnother fallen climber who earned a nickname, \"Sleeping Beauty\", is Francys Distefano-Arsentiev, who died in 1998 during an unsuccessful descent from Everest after summiting. Her body remained where she fell and visible until 2007, when it was ceremonially hidden from view. \n\nAdditional bodies are located in \"rainbow valley\", an area below the summit strewn with corpses wearing brightly colored mountaineering apparel. Yet another named corpse is that of Hannelore Schmatz, who, with a prominent position on the south route, earned the moniker \"the German woman\"; she summited in 1979 but died at 8,200 m altitude during her descent. She remained there for many years but was eventually blown further down the mountain.\n\nIn 2006, British mountaineer David Sharp was found in a hypothermic state in Green Boots' Cave, by climber Mark Inglis and his party. Inglis controversially continued his ascent without offering assistance, and Sharp died of extreme cold some hours later. Approximately three dozen other climbers would have passed by the dying man that day; it has been suggested that those who noticed him mistook Sharp for Green Boots and therefore paid little attention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "100239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=100239", "title": "Hanuman", "text": "Hanuman\n\nHanuman (; IAST: \"Hanumān\", Sanskrit: हनुमान्) is an ardent devotee of Lord Rama and one of the central characters in the various versions of the epic \"Ramayana\" found in the Indian subcontinent and Southeast Asia. As one of the Chiranjivi, he is also mentioned in several other texts, such as the \"Mahabharata\", the various Puranas and some Jain, Buddhist, (although scholar-Buddhists find no trace of the name in the Buddhist canon) and Sikh texts. Several later texts also present him as an incarnation of Shiva. Hanuman is the son of Anjana and Kesari and is also son of the wind-god Vayu, who according to several stories, played a role in his birth.\n\nHis theological origins in Hinduism are unclear. Alternate theories include him having ancient roots, being a non-Aryan deity who was Sanskritized by the Vedic Aryans, or that he is a fusion deity who emerged in literary works from folk Yaksha protector deities and theological symbolism.\n\nWhile Hanuman is one of the central characters in the ancient Hindu epic \"Ramayana\", the evidence of devotional worship to him is missing in the texts and archeological sites of ancient and most of the medieval period. According to Philip Lutgendorf, an American Indologist known for his studies on Hanuman, the theological significance and devotional dedication to Hanuman emerged about 1,000 years after the composition of the \"Ramayana\", in the 2nd millennium CE, after the arrival of Islamic rule in the Indian subcontinent. Bhakti movement saints such as Samarth Ramdas expressed Hanuman as a symbol of nationalism and resistance to persecution. In the modern era, his iconography and temples have been increasingly common. He is viewed as the ideal combination of \"strength, heroic initiative and assertive excellence\" and \"loving, emotional devotion to his personal god Rama\", as Shakti and Bhakti. In later literature, he has been the patron god of martial arts such as wrestling, acrobatics, as well as meditation and diligent scholarship. He symbolizes the human excellences of inner self-control, faith and service to a cause, hidden behind the first impressions of a being who looks like a monkey.\n\nBesides being a popular deity in Hinduism, Hanuman is also found in Jainism and Buddhism. He is also a legendary character in legends and arts found outside the Indian subcontinent such as in Myanmar, Thailand, Cambodia, Malaysia and Indonesia. Outside India, Hanuman shares many characteristics with the Hindu versions in India, but differs in others. He is heroic, brave and steadfastly chaste, much like in the Sanskrit tradition, but not celibate. He marries and has children in other cultures, as is the case in a few regional versions in India. Hanuman is stated by scholars to be the inspiration for the allegory-filled adventures of a monkey hero in the \"Xiyouji\" (Journey to the West) – the great Chinese poetic novel influenced by the travels of Buddhist monk Xuanzang (602–664 CE) to India.\n\nThe meaning or the origin of word \"Hanuman\" is unclear. In the Hindu pantheon, deities typically have many synonymous names, each based on the noble characteristic or attribute or reminder of that deity's mythical deed. Hanuman has many names like Maruti, Pawansuta, Bajrangbali, Mangalmurti but these names are rarely used. Hanuman is the common name of the vaanar (semi-ape, semi-man) god.\n\nOne interpretation of the term is that it means \"one having a jaw (\"hanu\") that is prominent (\"mant\")\". This version is supported by a Puranic legend wherein baby Hanuman mistakes the sun for a fruit, attempts to heroically reach it, is wounded and gets a disfigured jaw.\n\nA second, less common interpretation is that the name derives from the Sanskrit words \"Han\" (\"killed\" or \"destroyed\") and \"maana\" (pride); the name implies \"one whose pride was destroyed\". This epithet resonates with the story in the \"Ramayana\" about his emotional devotion to Rama and Sita. He combines two of the most cherished traits in the Hindu bhakti-shakti worship traditions: \"heroic, strong, assertive excellence\" and \"loving, emotional devotion to personal god\".\n\nA third conjecture is found in Jain texts. This version states that Hanuman spent his childhood on an island called \"Hanuruha\", which served as the origin of his name.\n\nLinguistic variations of \"Hanuman\" include \"Hanumat\", Anuman (Tamil), Hanumantha (Kannada), Hanumanthudu (Telugu). Other names of Hanuman include:\n\n\nOutside the Indian subcontinent, though his iconography and the details of his legends vary, his names are phonetic similar to the Indian version:\n\n\nThe earliest mention of a divine monkey, interpreted by some scholars as the proto-Hanuman, is in hymn 10.86 of the \"Rigveda\", dated to between 1500 and 1200 BCE. The twenty-three verses of the hymn are a metaphorical and riddle-filled legend. It is presented as a dialogue between multiple characters: the god Indra, his wife Indrani and an energetic monkey it refers to as \"Vrisakapi\" and his wife \"Kapi\". The hymn opens with Indrani complaining to Indra that some of the soma offerings for Indra have been allocated to the energetic and strong monkey, and the people are forgetting Indra. The king of the gods Indra responds by telling his wife that the living being (monkey) that bothers her is to be seen as a friend, and that they should make an effort to coexist peacefully. The hymn closes with all agreeing that they should come together in Indra's house and share the wealth of the offerings.\n\nThis hymn, which includes an explicit discussion of sex and differences between species, has been interpreted in a number of ways by contemporary scholars. R.N. Dandekar states that it may metaphorically refer to another fertility god, while Wendy Doniger compares it to a horse sacrifice. Stephanie Jamison states that the hymn mentions a bull-monkey, a euphemism for a horse and fertility ritual, very different from the later era Hanuman. According to Philip Lutgendorf, there is \"no convincing evidence for a monkey-worshipping cult in ancient India\".\n\nThe orientalist F. E. Pargiter (1852-1927) theorized that Hanuman was a proto-Dravidian deity. According to this theory, the name \"Hanuman\" derives from the Tamil word for male monkey (\"ana-mandi\"), first transformed to \"Anumant\" – a name which remains in use. \"Anumant\", according to this hypothesis, was later Sanskritized to \"Hanuman\" because the ancient Aryans confronted with a popular monkey deity of ancient Dravidians coopted the concept and then Sanskritized it. According to Murray Emeneau, known for his Tamil linguistic studies, this theory does not make sense because the Old Tamil word \"mandi\" in Caṅkam literature can only mean \"female monkey\", and Hanuman is male. Further, adds Emeneau, the compound \"ana-mandi\" makes no semantic sense in Tamil, which has well developed and sophisticated grammar and semantic rules. The \"prominent jaw\" etymology, according to Emeneau, is therefore plausible.\n\nHanuman is mentioned in both the Hindu epics, \"Ramayana\" and \"Mahabharata\". A twentieth-century Jesuit missionary Camille Bulcke, in his \" Ramkatha: Utpatti Aur Vikas\" (\"The tale of Rama: its origin and development\"), proposed that Hanuman worship had its basis in the cults of aboriginal tribes of Central India.\n\nHanuman is mentioned in the Puranas. A medieval legend posited Hanuman as an avatar of the god Shiva by the 10th century CE (this development possibly started as early as in the 8th century CE). Hanuman is mentioned as an avatar of Shiva or Rudra in the medieval era Sanskrit texts like the \"Mahabhagvata Purana\", the \"Skanda Purana\", the \"Brhaddharma Purana\" and the \"Mahanataka\" among others. This development might have been a result of the Shavite attempts to insert their ishta devata (cherished deity) in the Vaishnavite texts.\n\nOther mythologies, such as those found in South India, present Hanuman as a being who is the union of Shiva and Vishnu, or associated with the origin of Ayyappa. The 17th century Odia work \"Rasavinoda\" by Dinakrishnadasa goes on to mention that the three gods – Brahma, Vishnu and Shiva – combined to take to the form of Hanuman.\n\nIn Valmiki's \"Ramayana\", estimated to have been composed before or in about the 3rd century BCE, Hanuman is an important, creative character as a simian helper and messenger for Rama. The character evolved over time, reflecting regional cultural values. It is, however, in the late medieval era that his profile evolves into more central role and dominance as the exemplary spiritual devotee, particularly with the popular vernacular text \"Ramcharitmanas\" by Tulsidas (~ 1575 CE). According to scholars such as Patrick Peebles and others, during a period of religious turmoil and Islamic rule of the Indian subcontinent, the Bhakti movement and devotionalism-oriented Bhakti yoga had emerged as a major trend in Hindu culture by the 16th-century, and the \"Ramcharitmanas\" presented Rama as a Vishnu avatar, supreme being and a personal god worthy of devotion, with Hanuman as the ideal loving devotee with legendary courage, strength and powers.\n\nHanuman evolved and emerged in this era as the ideal combination of shakti and bhakti. Stories and folk traditions in and after the 17th century, began to reformulate and present Hanuman as a divine being, as a descendent of deities, and as an avatar of Shiva. He emerged as a champion of those religiously persecuted, expressing resistance, a yogi, an inspiration for martial artists and warriors, a character with less fur and increasingly human, symbolizing cherished virtues and internal values, and worthy of devotion in his own right. Hindu monks morphed into soldiers, and they named their organizations after Hanuman. This evolution of Hanuman's character, religious and cultural role as well as his iconography continued through the colonial era and in post-colonial times.\n\nAccording to Hindu legends, Hanuman was born to Anjana and father Kesari. Hanuman is also called the son of the deity Vayu (Wind god) because of legends associated with Vayu's role in Hanuman's birth. One story mentioned in Eknath's \"Bhavartha Ramayana\" (16th century CE) states that when Anjana was worshiping Shiva, the King Dasharatha of Ayodhya was also performing the ritual of Putrakama yagna in order to have children. As a result, he received some sacred pudding (payasam) to be shared by his three wives, leading to the births of Rama, Lakshmana, Bharata, and Shatrughna. By divine ordinance, a kite snatched a fragment of that pudding and dropped it while flying over the forest where Anjana was engaged in worship. Vayu, the Hindu deity of the wind, delivered the falling pudding to the outstretched hands of Anjana, who consumed it. Hanuman was born to her as a result.\n\nSome believe that Lord Hanuman was born in a cave in Anjani Kund (or Anjani Parbat) in what is now southern Gujarat's tribal-dominated Dangs district.\n\nAccording to Valmiki's Ramayana, one morning in his childhood, Hanuman was hungry and saw the rising red colored sun. Mistaking it for a ripe fruit, he leapt up to eat it. In one version of the Hindu legend, the king of gods Indra intervened and struck his thunderbolt. It hit Hanuman on his jaw, and he fell to the earth as dead with a broken jaw. His father, Vayu (air), states Ramayana in section 4.65, became upset and withdrew. The lack of air created immense suffering to all living beings. This led lord Shiva, to intervene and resuscitate Hanuman, which in turn prompted Vayu to return to the living beings.As the mistaken done by god Indra,he grants Hanuman a wish that his body would be as strong as Indra's Vajra,where as his Vajra can also not harm him.Along with Indra other gods have also granted him wishes such as God agni granted hanuman a wish that fire won't harm him,God Varuna granted a wish for hanuman that water won't harm him,God Vayu granted a wish for hanuman that he will be as fast as wind and the wind won't harm him.Lord Brahma has also granted hanuman a wish that he can move at any place where he cannot be stopped at anywhere,Lord Vishnu also grants hanuman a weapon for Hanuman which is named as \"Gada\".Hence this wishes makes Hanuman a immortal,who has unique powers and strong. \n\nIn another Hindu version of his childhood legend, which Lutgendorf states is likely older and also found in Jain texts such as the 8th-century \"Dhurtakhyana\", Hanuman's Icarus-like leap for the sun proves to be fatal and he is burnt to ashes from the sun's heat. His ashes fall onto the earth and oceans. Gods then gather the ashes and his bones from land and, with the help of fishes, from the water and re-assemble him. They find everything except one fragment of his jawbone. His great-grandfather on his mother's side then asks Surya to restore the child to life. Surya returns him to life, but Hanuman is left with a disfigured jaw. Hanuman said to have spend his childhood in Kishkindha.\n\nSome time after this event, Hanuman begins using his supernatural powers on innocent bystanders as simple pranks, until one day he pranks a meditating sage. In fury, the sage curses Hanuman to forget the vast majority of his powers. \n\nThere is quite a lot of variation between what happens between his childhood and the events of the \"Ramayana\", but his story becomes much more solid in the events of the Ramayana. After Rama and his brother Lakshmana, searching for Rama's kidnapped wife, Sita, arrive in Kishkindha, the new king, and Rama's newfound ally, the monkey king Sugriva, agrees to send scouts in all four directions to search for Rama's missing wife. To the south, Sugriva sends Hanuman and some others, including the great bear Jambavan. This group travels all the way to the southernmost tip of India, where they encounter the ocean with the island of Lanka (modern day Sri Lanka) visible in the horizon. The group wishes to investigate the island, but none can swim or jump so far (it was common for such supernatural powers to be common amongst characters in these epics). However, Jambavan knows from prior events that Hanuman used to be able to do such a feat with ease, and lifts his curse. \n\nThe curse lifted, Hanuman now remembers all of his godlike powers. He is said to have transformed into the size of mountain, and flew across the narrow channel to Lanka. Upon landing, he discovers a city populated by the evil king Ravana and his demon followers, so he shrinks down to the size of an ant and sneaks into the city. After searching the city, he discovers Sita in a grove, guarded by demon warriors. When they all fall asleep, he meets with Sita and discusses how he came to find her. She reveals that Ravana kidnapped her and is forcing her to marry him soon. He offers to rescue her but Sita refuses, stating that her husband must do it (A belief from the time of ancient India). \n\nWhat happens next differs by account, but a common tale is that after visiting Sita, he starts destroying the grove, prompting in his capture. Regardless of the tale, he ends up captured in the court of Ravana himself, who laughs when Hanuman tells him that Rama is coming to take back Sita. Ravana orders his servants to light Hanuman's tail on fire as torture for threatening his safety. However, every time they put on an oil soaked cloth to burn, he grows his tail longer so that more cloths need to be added. This continues until Ravana has had enough and orders the lighting to begin. However, when his tail is lit, he shrinks his tail back and breaks free of his bonds with his superhuman strength. He jumps out a window and jumps from rooftop to rooftop, burning down building after building, until much of the city is ablaze. Seeing this triumph, Hanuman leaves back for India.\n\nUpon returning, he tells his scouting party what had occurred, and they rush back to Kishkindha, where Rama had been waiting all along for news. Upon hearing that Sita was safe and was awaiting him, Rama gathered the support of Sugriva's army and marched for Lanka. Thus begins the legendary Battle of Lanka.\n\nThroughout the long battle, Hanuman played a role as a general in the army. During one intense fight, Lakshmana, Rama's brother, was fatally wounded and was thought to die without the aid of an herb from a Himalayan mountain. Hanuman was the only one who could make the journey so quickly, and was thus sent to the mountain. Upon arriving, he discovered that there were many herbs along the mountainside, and did not want to take the wrong herb back. So instead, he grew to the size of a mountain, ripped the mountain from the Earth, and flew it back to the battle. This act is perhaps his most legendary among Hindus.\n\nIn the end, Rama revealed his divine powers as the incarnation of the God Vishnu, and slew Ravana and the rest of the demon army. Finally finished, Rama returned to his home of Ayodhya to return to his place as king. After blessing all those who aided him in the battle with gifts, he gave Hanuman his gift, who threw it away. Many court officials, perplexed, were angered by this act. Hanuman replied that rather than needing a gift to remember Rama, he would always be in his heart. Some court officials, still upset, asked him for proof, and Hanuman tore open his chest, which had an image of Rama and Sita on his heart. Now proven as a true devotee, Rama cured him and blessed him with immortality, but Hanuman refused this and asked only for a place at Rama's feet to worship him. Touched, Rama blessed him with immortality anyways, which according to legend, is set only as long as the story of Rama lives on. \n\nCenturies after the events of the Ramayana, and during the events of the Mahabharata, Hanuman is now a nearly forgotten demigod living his life in a forest. After some time, his half brother through the god Vayu, Bhima, passes through looking for flowers for his wife. Hanuman senses this and decides to teach him a lesson, as Bhima had been known to be boastful of his superhuman strength (at this point in time supernatural powers were much rarer than in the Ramayana but still seen in the Hindu epics). Bhima encountered Hanuman lying on the ground in the shape of a feeble old monkey. He asked Hanuman to move, but he would not. As stepping over an individual was considered extremely disrespectful in this time, Hanuman suggested lifting his tail up to create passage. Bhima heartily accepted, but could not lift the tail to any avail. \n\nBhima, humbled, realized that the frail monkey was some sort of deity, and asked him to reveal himself. Hanuman revealed himself, much to Bhima's surprise, and the brother's embraced. Hanuman prophesied that Bhima would soon be a part of a terrible war, and promised his brother that he would sit on the flag of his chariot and shout a battle cry that would weaken the hearts of his enemies. Content, Hanuman left his brother to his search, and after that prophesied war, would not be seen again. \n\nHanuman has many attributes:\n\n\n\nThe Sundara Kanda, the fifth book in the Ramayana, focuses on Hanuman. Hanuman meets Rama in the last year of the latter's 14-year exile, after the demon king Ravana had kidnapped Sita. With his brother Lakshmana, Rama is searching for his wife Sita. This, and related Rama legends are the most extensive stories about Hanuman.\n\nNumerous versions of the \"Ramayana\" exist within India. These present variant legends of Hanuman, Rama, Sita, Lakshamana and Ravana. The characters and their descriptions vary, in some cases quite significantly.\n\nThe \"Mahabharata\" is another major epic which has a short mention of Hanuman. In Book 3, the Vana Parva of the \"Mahabharata\", he is presented as a half brother of Bhima, who meets him accidentally on his way to Mount Kailasha. A man of extraordinary strength, Bhima is unable to move Hanuman's tail, making him realize and acknowledge the strength of Hanuman. This story attests to the ancient chronology of the Hanuman character. It is also a part of artwork and reliefs such as those at the Vijayanagara ruins.\n\nApart from Ramayana and Mahabharata, Hanuman is mentioned in several other texts. Some of these stories add to his adventures mentioned in the earlier epics, while others tell alternative stories of his life. The \"Skanda Purana\" mentions Hanuman in Rameswaram.\n\nIn a South Indian version of \"Shiva Purana\", Hanuman is described as the son of Shiva and Mohini (the female avatar of Vishnu), or alternatively his mythology has been linked to or merged with the origin of Swami Ayyappa who is popular in parts of South India.\n\nThe 16th-century Indian poet Tulsidas wrote \"Hanuman Chalisa\", a devotional song dedicated to Hanuman. He claimed to have visions where he met face to face with Hanuman. Based on these meetings, he wrote \"Ramcharitmanas\", an Awadhi language version of Ramayana.\n\nHanuman appears with a Buddhist gloss in Tibetan (southwest China) and Khotanese (west China, central Asia and northern Iran) versions of Ramayana. The Khotanese versions have a Jātaka tales-like theme, but are generally similar to the Hindu texts in the storyline and character of Hanuman. The Tibetan version is more embellished, and without attempts to include a Jātaka gloss. Also, in the Tibetan version, novel elements appear such as Hanuman carrying love letters between Rama and Sita, in addition to the Hindu version wherein Rama sends the wedding ring with him as a message to Sita. Further, in the Tibetan version, Rama chides Hanuman for not corresponding with him through letters more often, implying that the monkey-messenger and warrior is a learned being who can read and write letters.\nIn the Sri Lankan versions of Ramayana, which are titled after Ravana, the story is less melodramatic than the Indian stories. Many of the legends recounting Hanuman's bravery and innovative ability are found in the Sinhala versions. The stories in which the characters are involved have Buddhist themes, and lack the embedded ethics and values structure according to Hindu dharma. According to Hera Walker, some Sinhalese communities seek the aid of Hanuman through prayers to his mother. In Chinese Buddhist texts, states Arthur Cotterall, myths mention the meeting of the Buddha with Hanuman, as well as Hanuman's great triumphs. According to Rosalind Lefeber, the arrival of Hanuman in East Asian Buddhist texts may trace its roots to the translation of the Ramayana into Chinese and Tibetan in the 6th-century CE.\n\nIn both China and Japan, according to Lutgendorf, much like in India, there is a lack of a radical divide between humans and animals, with all living beings and nature assumed to be related to humans. There is no exaltation of humans over animals or nature, unlike the Western traditions. A divine monkey has been a part of the historic literature and culture of China and Japan, possibly influenced by the close cultural contact through Buddhist monks and pilgrimage to India over two millennia. For example, the Japanese text \"Keiranshuyoshu\", while presenting its mythology about a divine monkey, that is the theriomorphic Shinto emblem of Hie shrines, describes a flying white monkey that carries a mountain from India to China, then from China to Japan. Many Japanese shrines and village boundaries, dated from the 8th to the 14th centuries, feature a monkey deity as guardian or intermediary between humans and gods.\n\nThe Jātaka tales contain Hanuman-like stories. For example, the Buddha is described as a monkey-king in one of his earlier births in the \"Mahakapi Jātaka\", wherein he as a compassionate monkey suffers and is abused, but who nevertheless continues to follow dharma in helping a human being who is lost and in danger.\n\n\"Paumacariya\" (also known as \"Pauma Chariu\" or \"Padmacharit\"), the Jain version of Ramayana written by Vimalasuri, mentions Hanuman not as a divine monkey, but as a Vidyadhara (a supernatural being, demigod in Jain cosmology). He is the son of Pavangati (wind deity) and Anjana Sundari. Anjana gives birth to Hanuman in a forest cave, after being banished by her in-laws. Her maternal uncle rescues her from the forest; while boarding his vimana, Anjana accidentally drops her baby on a rock. However, the baby remains uninjured while the rock is shattered. The baby is raised in Hanuruha, his great-uncle's island kingdom, from which Hanuman gets his name. Hanuman's strength is not his own achievement, but attributed to his mother's asceticism. In Jain texts, Hanuman is depicted as the 17th of 24 Kamadevas, the one who is ultimately handsome.\n\nIn the Jain version, Hanuman is not celibate, Rama is a pious Jaina who never kills anyone, and it is Lakshamana who kills Ravana. Hanuman is a sexually active personality in the Jain versions, marries princess Anangakusuma, the daughter of Kharadushana and Ravana's sister Chandranakha. Ravana also presents Hanuman one of his nieces as a second wife. After becoming an ally of Sugriva, Hanuman acquires a hundred more wives. Hanuman becomes a supporter of Rama after meeting him and learning about Sita's kidnapping by Ravana. He goes to Lanka on Rama's behalf, but is unable to convince Ravana to give up Sita. Ultimately, he joins Rama in the war against Ravana and performs several heroic deeds. Later Jain texts, such as \"Uttarapurana\" (9th century CE) by Gunabhadra and \"Anjana-Pavananjaya\" (12th century CE), tell the same story.\n\nIn several versions of the Jain \"Ramayana\" story, there are passages that explain to Hanuman, and Rama (called Pauma in Jainism), that attachment to women and pleasures are evil. Hanuman, in these versions, ultimately renounces all social and material life to become a Jain ascetic.\n\nIn Sikhism, the Hindu god Rama has been referred to as Sri Ram Chandar, and the story of Hanuman as a \"siddha\" has been influential. After the birth of the martial Sikh Khalsa movement in 1699, during the 18th and 19th centuries, Hanuman was an inspiration and object of reverence by the Khalsa. Some Khalsa regiments brought along the Hanuman image to the battleground. The Sikh texts such as \"Hanuman Natak\" composed by Hirda Ram Bhalla, and \"Das Gur Katha\" by Kavi Kankan describe the heroic deeds of Hanuman. According to Louis Fenech, the Sikh tradition states that Guru Gobind Singh was a fond reader of the \"Hanuman Natak\" text.\n\nDuring the colonial era, in Sikh seminaries in what is now Pakistan, Sikh teachers were called \"bhai\", and they were required to study the \"Hanuman Natak\", the Hanuman story containing \"Ramcharitmanas\" and other texts, all of which were available in Gurmukhi script.\n\nSri Guru Granth Sahib, the primary Sikh Scripture, outright rejects the validity of supremacy of Hanuman. Bhagat Kabir, a prominent writer of the scripture explicitly states that the being like Hanuman does not know the glory of the divine.\n\nThe non-Indian versions of Ramayana, such as the Thai \"Ramakien\", mention that Hanuman had relationships with multiple women, including Svayamprabha, Benjakaya (Vibhisana's daughter), Suvannamaccha and even Ravana's wife Mandodari. According to these versions of the Ramayana, Macchanu is the son of Hanuman borne by Suvannamaccha, daughter of Ravana. The Jain text \"Paumacariya\" mentions that Hanuman married Lankasundari, the daughter of Lanka's chief defender Bajramukha.\n\nAnother legend says that a demigod named Matsyaraja (also known as Makardhwaja or Matsyagarbha) claimed to be his son. Matsyaraja's birth is explained as follows: a fish (\"matsya\") was impregnated by the drops of Hanuman's sweat, while he was bathing in the ocean. According to \"Parasara Samhita\", Hanuman married Suvarchala, the daughter of Surya (the Sun God).\n\nThe Hanuman in southeast Asian texts differs from the north Indian Hindu version in various ways in the Burmese Ramayana, such as \"Rama Yagan\", \"Alaung Rama Thagyin\" (in the Arakanese dialect), \"Rama Vatthu\" and \"Rama Thagyin\", the Malay Ramayana, such as \"Hikayat Sri Rama\" and \"Hikayat Maharaja Ravana\", and the Thai Ramayana, such as \"Ramakien\". However, in some cases, the aspects of the story are similar to Hindu versions and Jaina or Buddhist versions of Ramayana found elsewhere on the Indian subcontinent.\n\nHanuman became more important in the medieval period and came to be portrayed as the ideal devotee (bhakta) of Rama. Hanuman's life, devotion, celibacy and strength inspired wrestlers in India.\nAccording to Philip Lutgendorf, devotionalism to Hanuman and his theological significance emerged long after the composition of the \"Ramayana\", in the 2nd millennium CE. His prominence grew after the arrival of Islamic rule in the Indian subcontinent. He is viewed as the ideal combination of shakti (\"strength, heroic initiative and assertive excellence\") and bhakti (\"loving, emotional devotion to his personal god Rama\"). Beyond wrestlers, he has been the patron god of other martial arts. He is stated to be a gifted grammarian, meditating yogi and diligent scholar. He exemplifies the human excellences of temperance, faith and service to a cause.\n\nIn 17th-century north and western regions of India, Hanuman emerged as an expression of resistance and dedication against Islamic persecution. For example, the bhakti poet-saint Ramdas presented Hanuman as a symbol of Marathi nationalism and resistance to Mughal Empire.\n\nHanuman in the colonial and post-colonial era has been a cultural icon, as a symbolic ideal combination of shakti and bhakti, as a right of Hindu people to express and pursue their forms of spirituality and religious beliefs (dharma). Political and religious organizations have named themselves after him or his synonyms such as \"Bajrang\". Political parades or religious processions have featured men dressed up as Hanuman, along with women dressed up as \"gopis\" (milkmaids) of god Krishna, as an expression of their pride and right to their heritage, culture and religious beliefs. According to some scholars, the Hanuman-linked youth organizations have tended to have a paramilitary wing and have opposed other religions, with a mission of resisting the \"evil eyes of Islam, Christianity and Communism\", or as a symbol of Hindu nationalism.\n\nHanuman's iconography shows him either with other central characters of the \"Ramayana\" or by himself. If with Rama and Sita, he is shown to the right of Rama, as a devotee bowing or kneeling before them with a Namaste (Anjali Hasta) posture. If alone, he carries weapons such as a big Gada (mace) and thunderbolt (\"vajra\"), sometimes in a scene reminiscent of a scene from his life.\n\nIn the modern era, his iconography and temples have been common. He is typically shown with Rama, Sita and Lakshmana, near or in Vaishnavism temples, as well as by himself usually opening his chest to symbolically show images of Rama and Sita near his heart. He is also popular among the followers of Shaivism.\n\nIn north India, aniconic representation of Hanuman such as a round stone has been in use by yogi, as a means to help focus on the abstract aspects of him.\n\nHanuman is often worshipped along with Rama and Sita of Vaishnavism, sometimes independently. There are numerous statues to celebrate or temples to worship Hanuman all over India. In some regions, he is considered as an avatar of Shiva, the focus of Shaivism. According to a review by Lutgendorf, some scholars state that the earliest Hanuman murtis appeared in the 8th century, but verifiable evidence of Hanuman images and inscriptions appear in the 10th century in Indian monasteries in central and north India.\n\nTuesday and Saturday of every week are particularly popular days at Hanuman temples. Some people keep a partial or full fast on either of those two days and remember Hanuman and the theology he represents to them.\n\nMajor temples and shrines of Hanuman include:\n\n\nHanuman is a central character in the annual Ramlila celebrations in India, and seasonal dramatic arts in southeast Asia, particularly in Thailand; and Bali and Java, Indonesia. Ramlila is a dramatic folk re-enactment of the life of Rama according to the ancient Hindu epic \"Ramayana\" or secondary literature based on it such as the \"Ramcharitmanas\". It particularly refers to the thousands of dramatic plays and dance events that are staged during the annual autumn festival of Navratri in India. Hanuman is featured in many parts of the folk-enacted play of the legendary war between Good and Evil, with the celebrations climaxing in the Dussehra (Dasara, Vijayadashami) night festivities where the giant grotesque effigies of Evil such as of demon Ravana are burnt, typically with fireworks.\n\nThe Ramlila festivities were declared by UNESCO as one of the \"Intangible Cultural Heritages of Humanity\" in 2008. Ramlila is particularly notable in the historically important Hindu cities of Ayodhya, Varanasi, Vrindavan, Almora, Satna and Madhubani – cities in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh.\n\nHanuman's birthday is observed by some Hindus as Hanuman Jayanti. It falls in much of India in the traditional month of Chaitra in the lunisolar Hindu calendar, which overlaps with March and April. However, in parts of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, Hanuman Jayanthi is observed in the regional Hindu month of Margazhi, which overlaps with December and January. The festive day is observed with devotees gathering at Hanuman temples before sunrise, and day long spiritual recitations and story reading about the victory of good over evil.\n\nHanuman is a revered heroic figure in Khmer history in southeast Asia. He features predominantly in the Reamker, a Cambodian epic poem, based on the Sanskrit Itihasa Ramayana epic. Intricate carvings on the walls of Angkor Wat depict scenes from the Ramayana including those of Hanuman.\nIn Cambodia and many other parts of southeast Asia, mask dance and shadow theatre arts celebrate Hanuman with Ream (same as Rama of India). Hanuman is represented by a white mask. Particularly popular in southeast Asian theatre are Hanuman's accomplishments as a martial artist and as an amorous seducer of women, in interpolated plays that are missing from most versions of the Indian \"Ramayana\".\n\nHanuman is the central character in many of the historic dance and drama art works such as Wayang Wong found in Javanese culture, Indonesia. These performance arts can be traced to at least the 10th century. He has been popular, along with the local versions of \"Ramayana\" in other islands of Indonesia such as Java.\n\nIn major medieval era Hindu temples, archeological sites and manuscripts discovered in Indonesian and Malay islands, Hanuman features prominently along with Rama, Sita, Lakshmana, Vishvamitra and Sugriva. The most studied and detailed relief artworks are found in the Candis Panataran and Prambanan.\nHanuman, along with other characters of the \"Ramayana\", are an important source of plays and dance theatre repertoire at Odalan celebrations and other festivals in Bali.\n\nHanuman has been a historic and popular character of Ramakien in Thai culture. He appears wearing a crown on his head and armor. He is depicted as an albino white, strong character with open mouth in action, sometimes shown carrying a trident. In \"Ramkien\", Hanuman is a devoted soldier of Rama. Unlike in Indian adaptations, he is not celibate, and he is presented as a ladies man, according to Paula Richman. He meets the mermaid Suvannamaccha and the couple have a son. Hanuman plays a dominant role in the Thai version of the \"Ramayana\" epic.\n\nAs in the Indian tradition, Hanuman is the patron of martial arts and an example of courage, fortitude and excellence in Thailand.\n\nHanuman was mentioned in the 2018 Marvel Cinematic Universe film, \"Black Panther\", where he is shown to be the central deity of a complex Indo-African religion followed by the Jabari tribe from the fictional African nation of Wakanda. The “Hanuman” reference was removed in India.\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "10889976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10889976", "title": "Henry FitzRoy (d. 1158)", "text": "Henry FitzRoy (d. 1158)\n\nHenry FitzRoy (born c. 1100-1104, died 1158) was an illegitimate son of Henry I of England by Nest, daughter of Rhys ap Tewdwr, last king of Deheubarth (d. 1093), and his wife, Gwladys ferch Rhiwallon ap Cynfyn.\n\nHenry FitzRoy held lands from his royal father in Narberth and Pebidiog. Upon his death in battle against the Welsh Prince in 1158, his lands passed to his oldest son, Meilyr, later Lord Chief Justice of Ireland for his cousin, King Henry II. Amabilis, daughter of Henry FitzRoy, married Walter de Riddlesford. Her husband Walter, along with Amabilis's uncles, her nephews and the Geralds were active in Irish affairs as well as holding large grants of land there.\n\nIn 1158 Henry FitzRoy led a naval expedition in an attempt to 'assault' the Welsh under Owain Gwynedd, King of Gwynedd 'on both land and sea', on behalf of his Norman cousin, King Henry II. When FitzRoy's army landed at Ynys Môn, he torched the churches of Llanbedrgoch and Llanfair Mathafarn Eithaf. During Owain's men gathered together and the next morning fought and defeated the Norman army and killed Henry FitzRoy by a \"shower of lances\".\n\n"}
{"id": "58505733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58505733", "title": "Hussain Umarji", "text": "Hussain Umarji\n\nHussain Umarji was a cleric from the city of Godhra in the western Indian state of Gujarat accused of being the 'key conspirator' of the Aman Guest House conspiracy which led to the arson of the Sabarmati Express at the Godhra railway station on 27 February 2002. He was later acquitted by the courts for lack of evidence.\n\nA graduate from Darul Uloom Deoband, Hussain was a prominent leader of the Deobandi-Tableegh Jamaat movement in the Godhra region.\n\nHussain was a prosperous timber merchant married to Shabira and had six children, two daughters Fatima and Afsa, and four sons, two of whom are Amin and Saeed.\n\nHussain was a philanthropist, active in delivering humanitarian aid to victims of 1993 Latur earthquake,\n2001 Gujarat earthquake and 2002 Gujarat riots.\n"}
{"id": "5679463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5679463", "title": "Indefinite lifespan", "text": "Indefinite lifespan\n\nIndefinite lifespan (also known as indefinite life extension or bio-indefinite) is a term used in the life extension movement and transhumanism to refer to the hypothetical longevity of humans (and other life-forms) under conditions in which ageing is effectively and completely prevented and treated. Their lifespans would be \"\" (that is, they would not be \"\"), because protection from the effects of aging on health does not guarantee survival. Such individuals would still be susceptible to death by disease, starvation, accidents, or deliberate killing, but not death from aging. Semantically, \"indefinite lifespan\" is more accurate than \"immortality\" which, especially in religious contexts, implies an inability to die.\n\nLongevity escape velocity is a term used in the life extension movement. It is a hypothetical situation in which life expectancy is being increased faster than time is being expended. For example, in a given year in which longevity escape velocity would be maintained, technological advances would increase life expectancy more than that year took away by passing by.\n\nThe terms \"immortality\" and \"eternal youth\" are often used as synonyms for \"indefinite lifespan\", but they carry connotations from their other contexts which science has deemed to be impossible. That is, \"immortal\" means \"incapable of dying\". \"Eternal\" implies guaranteed existence for eternity, and in this context is also implausible because of entropy. Even if cures were found for all the degenerative diseases, and effective treatments were developed for all the processes of aging, so that bodies could be maintained as easily as cars can be repaired, people would still be killed in accidents, slain in wars, choose to die, etc.\n\nThe term indefinite lifespan represents a more achievable state of affairs, because it merely implies freedom from death by aging or infirmity.\n\nThe use of the term is also sometimes favored for reasons of linguistic aesthetics, in the same way that the term birth control is preferred to \"\"birth prevention\" or \"birth elimination\"\" which both imply, as does 'immortality', that the choice is one-time only and has permanent consequences. Whereas the point of 'indefinite lifespan', like the point of 'birth control', is to gain the opportunity to lead one's life in a more conscious and deliberate manner.\n\nThis question is twofold. On the one hand it can be interpreted to mean, \"Will a cure (or program of effective treatments) for aging ever be developed?\" while on the other hand it could mean \"Will the effective treatment of aging become available soon enough for those alive today to take advantage of it?\" The answer to the first question is conditional on medical advancement: if medical science continues to advance in the fields of biogerontology and bioengineering, then some people hope the answer is \"yes, that it will happen eventually, except if some event or series of events were to prevent the further advance of biological science\" (\"see\" Risks to civilization, humans and planet Earth \"and the\" Doomsday Clock). Many scientists researching this area at the moment do not agree. They see a problem in not just individual diseases but in failure of repair mechanisms alluded to above in the discussion of thermodynamic considerations.\n\nWhile science is constantly advancing and technology is becoming ever more sophisticated, the human body and mind are only evolving very slowly, and the aging process has not, in that time, become any more damaging (\"which, in short, is why we live three times as long on average in the twenty-first century as we did ten thousand years before\").\n\nThe answer to the second question depends on two factors: the first being \"how fast\" medical science advances, and the second being \"how well\" each person takes care of themself (such as utilizing the best available life extension technology or not, and generally eating and behaving in a healthful and non-degrading way), both of which may affect whether or not a given person is still alive when the cure (or set of treatments) becomes available. This strategy is captured in the subtitle \"Live Long Enough to Live Forever\" of the life extension book \"Fantastic Voyage\", by Ray Kurzweil and Terry Grossman.\n\nThe second factor to the second question hinges on the first factor - no amount of healthy living will enable somebody alive today to reach the point of indefinite lifespan if medical science is curtailed significantly, or if aging turns out to be massively more complex than currently believed. However, if biomedical gerontology continues to improve, if somatic genetic engineering becomes safe and effective (and is not banned by opponents) within the relatively near future, it may be conceivable for some of those now alive to attain indefinite lifespans.\n\nStrategies for Engineered Negligible Senescence is a proposed research program for repairing all types of age-related damage.\n\nCalorie restriction has been presented as a piece of the puzzle of reaching actuarial escape velocity. Other proposed techniques include genetic engineering, telomere extension, organ regeneration, nanotechnology, and even mind uploading.\n\nOn the theory that the primary cause of aging is DNA damage [see DNA damage theory of aging and DNA damage (naturally occurring)], there are, in principle, two ways of reducing DNA damage in cells, and thus allowing indefinite extension of lifespan. These are:\n\nThere is a large body of literature on antioxidant phytochemicals that reduce the occurrence of oxidative DNA damage. However, when intervention trials were carried out using these antioxidants as dietary supplements and cancer as the endpoint, the results generally proved disappointing.\n\nOn the other hand, there seems to be evidence that certain dietary components stimulate repair of DNA damage, and protect against cancer as an endpoint. One of these is chlorogenic acid, a major component of, and absorbable from, coffee. Coffee is protective against colorectal cancer, and chlorogenic acid and its metabolites increase the protein expression levels of two DNA repair enzymes: Pms2 and PARP. Another compound that protects against the early stages of cancer is naringenin, a citrus flavonoid. Naringenin was shown to increase the mRNA expression levels of two DNA repair enzymes, DNA pol beta and OGG1.\n\n"}
{"id": "26145500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26145500", "title": "Kaya (Mauritian musician)", "text": "Kaya (Mauritian musician)\n\nJoseph Réginald Topize (10 August 1960 – 21 February 1999) professionally known by his stage name Kaya was a Mauritian musician and the creator of \"seggae\". \"Seggae\" is a fusion of Mauritian sega and reggae; two of the most popular music genres in Mauritius.\n\nTopize was born in Roche-Bois in Port Louis on August 10, 1960, from a family of five children. He was left under the supervision of an uncle as his father, a fisherman, was unable to support his education. Topize did not have a very happy childhood. Being a Mauritian Creole person , he was a young victim of racism and found himself left on his own to find odd jobs at the age of 8 years. At 16, he began to learn the guitar. He played hits from artists such as Mike Brant, Santana, Deep Purple, etc., and hosted dances and weddings with his first band, \"Wind and Fire\".\n\nTopize adopted the name 'Kaya' soon after discovering Bob Marley and reggae music in homage to Marley's album of the same name. Kaya revered Marley and was heavily influenced by him both musically and politically.\n\nKaya decided to move away from his former music style covering pop-rock groups and became dedicated to both interpret and imitate the music of Bob Marley. Spotted for his talents as a guitarist, he joined the group 'Lélou Menwar'. It was with them that Kaya performed in his first real concert and recorded his first studio album 'Letan lenfer'.\n\nAfter touring with Lélou Menwar, Kaya gather some friends from his hometown, Roche-Bois, to create the group 'Racinetatan'; named after a Malagasy prince exiled in Mauritius. Kaya and Racinetatan incorporated many of Marley's hits into their performances along with heavily influenced reggae compositions of their own. However, over time Kaya began to question this with the concept of \"roots & culture\" in mind. Kaya began to see that though he loved reggae and Jamaican culture, this did not fit his reality in Mauritius. In 1986, fueled by his new thought process, Kaya began to mix reggae music in with the local music, Sega.\n\nKaya also campaigned for the rights of the Mauritian Creole people.\n\nOn February 16, 1999, the Republican movement organised a free concert for the decriminalization of cannabis along Edward VII Street at Rose Hill. Five groups were playing, including Kaya.\n\nRama Valayden, a Republican later to become Minister of Justice, opened the festivities with a speech in favor of the decriminalization of soft drugs, saying: \"mo pou amène dépénalisation, sinon mo pas pou dans gouvernement\" as reported by the local press. Valayden then asked the crowd for a show of hands in support of resolutions calling for the decriminalization and appealed to Prime Minister Navin Ramgoolam for those imprisoned for possession of marijuana to be amnestied. At the time, about 2000 people or 75% of the prison population were imprisoned for soft drugs offences, with sentences ranging from several months to two years.\n\nThe crowd was composed of roughly 2000 participants and had a playful and peaceful atmosphere. However, many young people became overexcited and began to smoke marijuana openly. At the time there was no police intervention.\n\nTwo days after the event, police forces identified five people for smoking or encouraging the smoking of marijuana during the concert and had them reprimanded for questioning. Kaya was among those arrested and admitted to smoking the night of the concert. He was immediately imprisoned in a part of the Barracks Line prison named \"Alcatraz\", a detention center in Port-Louis usually reserved for the large quantity load drug dealers.\n\nThe police issued a request of 10,000 rupees (a considerable amount for the average Mauritian) for the release of the artist. Kaya's wife, aided by his fellow musicians and members of the MR (not Valayden), managed to raise the sum. However, due to various blunders of the lawyers involved and especially a lack of political support for the MR, Kaya was not released on the expected date, February 20. Since this then led on to a weekend, his release date would be postponed until the Monday. This was too late for Kaya and he was found dead in his cell on the morning of Sunday, February 21, 1999.\n\nThe official records state that Kaya, suffering from drug withdrawal, threw himself against the walls of his own cell and broke his skull in the process. A coroner from the neighbouring island of Reunion, Dr. Ramstein, contradicted this statement with his examination which claimed Kaya had been beaten to death.\n\nRiots followed soon after causing a major social upheaval in Mauritius resulting in the 1999 Mauritian riots.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21547644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21547644", "title": "List of motor vehicle deaths in Thailand by year", "text": "List of motor vehicle deaths in Thailand by year\n\nThis is a list of motor vehicle deaths in Thailand by year. fifty-four percent of motor vehicles in Thailand were two or three-wheeled vehicles. These vehicles were involved in 73 percent of fatalities. A fatality is defined as a death within 30 days of a crash. There were 212,060 km of roads in 2006: 61,747 km of highways, 313 km of motorways, 42,500 km of rural roads, and 107,500 km of local roads under local administration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1579569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1579569", "title": "List of victims of Nazism", "text": "List of victims of Nazism\n\nThis is a list of victims of Nazism who were noted for their achievements. Many on the lists below were of Jewish and Polish origin, although Soviet POWs, Serbs, Catholics, Roma and dissidents were also murdered. This list includes people from public life who, owing to their origins, their political or religious convictions, or their sexual orientation, lost their lives as victims of the Nazi regime. It includes those whose deaths were part of the Holocaust as well as individuals who died in other ways at the hands of the Nazis during World War II. Those who died in concentration camps are listed alongside those who were murdered by the Nazi Party or those who chose suicide for political motives or to avoid being murdered.\n\nThe list is sorted by occupation and by nationality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16289428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16289428", "title": "Lonesome George", "text": "Lonesome George\n\nLonesome George (c. 1910 – June 24, 2012) was a male Pinta Island tortoise (\"Chelonoidis abingdonii\") and the last known individual of the species. In his last years, he was known as the rarest creature in the world. George serves as an important symbol for conservation efforts in the Galápagos Islands and throughout the world.\n\nGeorge was first seen on the island of Pinta on November 1, 1971, by Hungarian malacologist József Vágvölgyi. The island's vegetation had been devastated by introduced feral goats, and the indigenous \"C. abingdonii\" population had been reduced to a single individual. It is thought that he was named after a character played by American actor George Gobel. He was relocated for his safety to the Charles Darwin Research Station on Santa Cruz Island, where he spent his life under the care of Fausto Llerena, whom the tortoise breeding center is named after.\n\nIt was hoped that more Pinta tortoises would be found, either on Pinta or in one of the world’s zoos, similar to the discovery of the Española male in San Diego. George was then penned with two females of a different subspecies. Although eggs were produced, none hatched. Unfortunately, no other Pinta tortoises were found. The Pinta tortoise was pronounced functionally extinct as George was in captivity.\n\nOver the decades, all attempts at mating Lonesome George had been unsuccessful. This prompted researchers at the Darwin Station to offer a $10,000 reward for a suitable mate.\n\nUntil January 2011, George was penned with two females of the species \"Chelonoidis becki\" (from the Wolf Volcano region of Isabela Island), in the hope his genotype would be retained in any resulting progeny. This species was then thought to be genetically closest to George's; however, any potential offspring would have been hybrids, not purebreds of the Pinta subspecies.\n\nIn July 2008, George mated with one of his female companions. Thirteen eggs were collected and placed in incubators. On November 11, 2008, the Charles Darwin Foundation reported 80% of the eggs showed weight loss characteristic of being inviable. By December 2008, the remaining eggs had failed to hatch and x-rays showed they were inviable.\n\nOn July 23, 2009, exactly one year after announcing George had mated, the Galápagos National Park announced one of George's female companions had laid a second clutch of five eggs. The park authority expressed its hope for the second clutch of eggs, which it said were in perfect condition. The eggs were moved to an incubator, but on December 16, it was announced the incubation period had ended and the eggs were inviable (as was a third batch of six eggs laid by the other female).\n\nIn November 1999, scientists reported Lonesome George was \"very closely related to tortoises\" from Española Island (\"C. hoodensis\") and San Cristóbal Island (\"C. chathamensis\"). On January 20, 2011, two individual \"C. hoodensis\" female partners were imported to the Charles Darwin Research Station, where George lived.\n\nOn June 24, 2012, at 8:00 am local time, Galápagos National Park director Edwin Naula announced that Lonesome George had been found dead by Fausto Llerana, who looked after him for 40 years. Naula suspected that the cause of death was cardiac arrest. A necropsy confirmed that George died from natural causes. The body of Lonesome George was frozen and shipped to the American Museum of Natural History in New York City to be preserved by taxidermists. The preservation work was carried out by the museum's taxidermist George Dante, with input from scientists.\nAfter a short display at the museum, it was expected that Lonesome George would be returned to the Galápagos and displayed at the Charles Darwin Research Station on Santa Cruz Island for future generations to see. However, a dispute broke out between an Ecuadorean ministry and the Galápagos Islands over where the preserved body of a Galapagos giant tortoise should be housed. The Ecuadorean government wanted him to be shown in the capital, Quito, but the Galápagos local mayor said Lonesome George was a symbol of the islands and should return home.\n\nOn February 17, 2017, Lonesome George flew back to the Galápagos Islands and is currently on display in an exhibit completely dedicated to him at the Charles Darwin Research Station. Most sources state Lonesome George was more than 100 years old, though others such as David Attenborough said he was probably in his 80s or possibly even younger. Even 100 is not especially old for a Galápagos tortoise.\n\nIn November 2012, in the journal \"Biological Conservation\", researchers reported identifying 17 tortoises that are partially descended from the same subspecies as Lonesome George, leading them to speculate that related purebred individuals of that subspecies may still be alive.\n\nIn December 2015, it was reported that the discovery of another species, \"Chelonoidis donfaustoi\", by Yale researchers had a 90% DNA match to that of the Pinta tortoise and that scientists believe this could possibly be used to resurrect the subspecies. This could mean that he is not the last of his kind.\n\n\n "}
{"id": "29135763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29135763", "title": "Management of acute coronary syndrome", "text": "Management of acute coronary syndrome\n\nManagement of acute coronary syndrome is targeted against the effects of reduced blood flow to the afflicted area of the heart muscle, usually because of a blood clot in one of the coronary arteries, the vessels that supply oxygenated blood to the myocardium. This is achieved with urgent hospitalization and medical therapy, including drugs that relieve chest pain and reduce the size of the infarct, and drugs that inhibit clot formation; for a subset of patients invasive measures are also employed (coronary angiography and percutaneous coronary intervention). Basic principles of management are the same for all types of acute coronary syndrome. However, some important aspects of treatment depend on the presence or absence of elevation of the ST segment on the electrocardiogram, which classifies cases upon presentation to either ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) or non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome (NST-ACS); the latter includes unstable angina and non-ST elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI). Treatment is generally more aggressive for STEMI patients, and reperfusion therapy is more often reserved for them. Long term therapy is necessary for prevention of recurrent events and complications.\n\nAcute coronary syndromes are caused by sudden and critical reduction of blood flow in one of the coronary arteries, the vessels that supply oxygenated blood to the myocardium (heart muscle), typically by a blood clot. The principal symptom is typically chest pain, known as angina pectoris; people who present with angina must prompt evaluation for possible acute coronary syndrome.\n\nAcute coronary syndromes are classified to two major categories, according to the patient's electrocardiogram, and specifically the presence or absence of persistent (>20 min) ST segment elevation (or left bundle branch block). Patients with acute coronary syndrome and ST elevation are said to suffer from ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) and they tend to have one of their coronary arteries totally blocked. Damage is reversible for approximately 20-30 minutes after complete obstruction of blood flow; thereafter myocardial cell death ensues and progresses as time passes. Therefore, complete and sustained restoration of blood flow must be as prompt as possible to ensure maximum salvage of functional myocardium, a principle expressed in the maxim \"time is muscle\". This is achieved with reperfusion therapy, which is based on invasive reopening of the afflicted coronary artery with primary percutaneous coronary intervention, or non-invasive breaking up of the responsible blood clot with a thrombolytic drug.\n\nPatients without ST segment elevation are said to suffer from non-ST-elevation acute coronary syndrome and tend not to have full occlusion of a coronary artery. If there is evidence of myocardial cell death (especially elevated cardiac biomarkers) they are considered to have a non-ST-elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI); otherwise they are classified as suffering from unstable angina. Their management is based on the estimation of their risk for adverse events. Patients at low risk can be adequately treated with medical therapy, in many ways similar to the one used for STEMI (but excluding thrombolytics). Those at moderate to high risk benefit from an early invasive strategy, which includes coronary angiography and, if necessary, revascularization with percutaneous coronary intervention or coronary artery bypass surgery.\n\nMedical therapy for acute coronary syndromes is based on drugs that act against ischemia and resultant angina and limit the infarct size (i.e., the area of myocardium that is affected), as well as drugs that inhibit clot formation. The latter include antiplatelet agents, which block the activation and aggregation of platelets (cellular blood components that contribute to clot formation), and anticoagulant agents (which attenuate the coagulation cascade). Long-term therapy in acute coronary syndrome survivors is targeted against recurrence and long term complications (secondary prevention).\n\nWomen are taken less seriously than men when they have a heart attack leading to higher mortality among women.\n\nBecause of the relationship between the duration of myocardial ischemia and the extent of damage to heart muscle, public health services encourage people experiencing possible acute coronary syndrome symptoms or those around them to immediately call emergency medical services. Patients with known coronary artery disease who have been prescribed nitroglycerin should promptly take one dose, and call emergency medical services if their symptoms do not improve within 2–5 minutes. Patients should not be transported to hospital by private vehicles instead of an ambulance, unless evacuation by land or air ambulance is impossible (e.g., dangerous weather in a very remote area), and if they must be, it should be done if possible with someone trained in cardiac first aid. Chewing non−enteric-coated aspirin is encouraged (unless there are contraindications).\n\nHealth care professionals are responsible for teaching their patients at risk of acute coronary syndrome what the symptoms of this condition are, and that it is imperative to seek urgent medical attention in case they present.\n\nEmergency Medical Services (EMS) Systems vary considerably in their ability to evaluate and treat patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction. Some provide as little as first aid and early defibrillation. Others employ highly trained paramedics with sophisticated technology and advanced protocols. Paramedic services are capable of providing oxygen, IV access, sublingual nitroglycerine, morphine, and aspirin. Some advanced paramedic systems can also perform 12-lead ECGs. If a STEMI is recognized the paramedic may be able to contact the local PCI hospital and alert the emergency room physician, and staff of the suspected AMI. Some Paramedic services are capable of providing thrombolytic therapy in the prehospital setting, allowing reperfusion of the myocardium.\n\nWith primary PCI emerging as the preferred therapy for ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction, EMS can play a key role in reducing door-to-balloon intervals (the time from presentation to a hospital ER to the restoration of coronary artery blood flow) by performing a 12-lead ECG in the field and using this information to triage the patient to the most appropriate medical facility. In addition, the 12-lead ECG can be transmitted to the receiving hospital, which enables time saving decisions to be made prior to the arrival of the patient. This may include a \"cardiac alert\" or \"STEMI alert\" that calls in off duty personnel in areas where the cardiac cath lab is not staffed 24 hours a day. Even in the absence of a formal alerting program, prehospital 12-lead ECGs are independently associated with reduced door to treatment intervals in the emergency department.\n\nIn patients with symptoms typical of myocardial ischemia an electrocardiogram must be immediately obtained - e.g., within 10 minutes from first contact with medical or paramedical personnel, including prehospital setting; the electrocardiographic findings will guide the subsequent management. Patients with elevation of the ST segment (or presumed new left bundle branch block) are treated based on guidelines for ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) and must undergo reperfusion therapy as soon as possible. Serum cardiac biomarkers are routinely obtained and their elevation is necessary for confirming diagnosis of myocardial infarction; however, reperfusion must not be delayed by waiting for the results. Patients without the above findings are initially classified as suffering from non ST elevation acute coronary syndrome, and subsequent cardiac biomarker results will differentiate between true non ST elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) and unstable angina.\n\nRelief of the pain of angina is of paramount importance, not only for humane reasons but because the pain is associated with sympathetic activation that causes vasoconstriction and increases the workload of the heart. The pain of myocardial ischemia is likely to respond to any intervention that improves the relationship between oxygen demand and supply, like nitrates, beta blockers and oxygen.\n\nNitrates, like nitroglycerin, dilate blood vessels, which is beneficial against myocardial ischemia in two ways: By increasing blood flow in the coronary arteries and the amount of oxygen that arrives to heart muscle; and by relaxing all blood vessels in the body, thereby reducing the workload that heart needs to produce against them and the oxygen it consumes. The preferred mode of administration is sublingually. By relaxing blood vessels nitrates also reduce blood pressure, which must be carefully monitored; they must not be used if hypotension is present. They must also be avoided in patients who have taken sildenafil or other phosphodiesterase type 5 inhibitors (used for erectile dysfunction) within the previous 24–48 hours, as the combination of the two could cause a serious drop in blood pressure. Intravenous nitrates are useful in patients with hypertension or pulmonary edema.\n\nBy reducing sympathetic stimulation of the heart, beta blockers decrease heart rate, blood pressure and cardiac output, and hence heart oxygen consumption. Beta-blockers alleviate ischemic pain, and have also been proved to reduce the size of infarcted heart muscle, the risk of arrhythmias, and the proportion of patients with acute coronary syndrome who actually evolve STEMI. However, they have also been shown to increase the risk of acute heart failure. Their early use is contraindicated if there are signs of congestive heart failure (e.g., Killip class II or above) or hypotension, along with other contraindications to beta blockers (slow heart rate, atrioventricular block); in the absence of contraindications beta blocker therapy should begin in the first 24 hours. It may be prudent to prefer oral rather than intravenous forms.\n\nInitial administration of oxygen to all patients with acute coronary syndrome is common practice; however, there is no evidence to support or refute that supplemental oxygen might be harmful or beneficial for cardiac patients who do not need it. It is currently recommended to give oxygen only to breathless patients or when blood oxygen saturation is low, e.g. <90%.\n\nAnalgesic agents that are most commonly used are opioids, and especially morphine, which is considered the analgesic of choice in patients with ST elevation. Along with its pain-controlling properties, morphine also reduces the work of breathing, alleviates breathlessness, reduces anxiety and has favorable action on hemodynamic parameters and cardiac oxygen consumption. However, in patients presenting without ST elevation, morphine has been shown to have adverse events potential, and its use is considered acceptable only after inadequate pain relief by medication specific against angina. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are contraindicated for both categories of patients.\n\nAll patients with acute coronary syndrome must immediately receive antiplatelet therapy, including aspirin and generally a second oral antiplatelet agent. Bleeding is the most important side-effect of antiplatelets.\n\nAspirin inhibits platelet aggregation and formation of blood clots. It is effective across the entire spectrum of acute coronary syndromes, and it actually has been shown to reduce the rate of death in patients with STEMI and in patients presenting without ST elevation. Aspirin is contraindicated in patients with documented allergy or known platelet disorder. Patients who have had gastrointestinal symptoms while on long-term aspirin therapy are usually able to tolerate aspirin in the short term. For patients with true intolerance to aspirin clopidogrel is recommended. Lower doses need days to achieve full antiplatelet effect, therefore a loading dose is necessary for patients who are not already on aspirin.\n\nAside of aspirin, three antiplatelet agents taken by mouth have been approved for use in acute coronary syndromes, clopidogrel, ticagrelor and prasugrel; all reduce platelet aggregation by inhibiting the P2Y receptor, a type of adenosine phosphate receptor, on the surface of platelets. Not all three of them are equally indicated in all types of acute coronary syndromes. In patients with ST elevation the choice of P2Y inhibitor depends on reperfusion strategy; for patients undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention ticagrelor and prasugrel are considered superior to clopidogrel, as they are more potent and have more rapid onset of action, at the cost of some increase in bleeding risk; for STEMI patients who are treated with fibrinolysis and those who do not undergo reperfusion treatment only clopidogrel is indicated. Prasugrel must not be given to patients with a history of ischemic stroke or aged 75 years or older. In patients with non-ST elevation acute coronary syndrome current guidelines also recommend immediate administration of dual antiplatelet therapy upon diagnosis; clopidogrel and ticagrelor are indicated in this setting, with ticagrelor considered superior for patients undergoing early invasive strategy (see later). However, emerging evidence questions this strategy. As with aspirin, it is necessary to administer a loading dose.\n\nGlycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors are a class of intravenous antiplatelet agents used in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention, consisting of abciximab, eptifibatide and tirofiban. Patients presenting with ST elevation that will be reperfused with percutaneous coronary intervention may receive one of the above agents at the time of catheterization, or perhaps before. Administering eptifibatide or tirofiban may also be reasonable in patients presenting with NST-ACS who are considered of intermediate or high risk and are treated with early invasive strategy.\n\nAnticoagulants in acute coronary syndrome are targeted against the coronary blood clot, as well as towards prevention of thrombotic complications, like formation of blood clots in the ventricles, stroke, pulmonary embolism or deep vein thrombosis. Patients undergoing PCI also need an anticoagulant to prevent catheter thrombosis. Options include unfractionated heparin, enoxaparin (a low molecular weight heparin), fondaparinux (a pentasaccharide antagonist of factor Xa) and bivalirudin (a direct thrombin inhibitor); all the above agents are given parenterally (subcutaneously or intravenously). Unfractionated heparin has the disadvantage of requiring dose adjustment based on a laboratory exam, activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT). In STEMI patients choice depends on the reperfusion strategy used (see below); bivalirudin is used when PCI is employed only, while in the same case fondaparinux is not preferred. Similarly, in Non-STE ACS bivalirudin too is only used when an early invasive strategy is chosen.\n\n The concept of reperfusion has become so central to the modern treatment of acute myocardial infarction, that we are said to be in the reperfusion era. Patients who present with suspected acute myocardial infarction and ST segment elevation (STEMI) or new bundle branch block on the 12 lead ECG are presumed to have an occlusive thrombosis in an epicardial coronary artery. They are therefore candidates for immediate reperfusion, either with thrombolytic therapy, percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) or when these therapies are unsuccessful, bypass surgery.\n\nIndividuals without ST segment elevation are presumed to be experiencing either unstable angina (UA) or non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI). They receive many of the same initial therapies and are often stabilized with antiplatelet drugs and anticoagulated. If their condition remains (hemodynamically) stable, they can be offered either late coronary angiography with subsequent restoration of blood flow (revascularization), or non-invasive stress testing to determine if there is significant ischemia that would benefit from revascularization. If hemodynamic instability develops in individuals with NSTEMIs, they may undergo urgent coronary angiography and subsequent revascularization. The use of thrombolytic agents is contraindicated in this patient subset, however.\n\nThe basis for this distinction in treatment regimens is that ST segment elevations on an ECG are typically due to complete occlusion of a coronary artery. On the other hand, in NSTEMIs there is typically a sudden narrowing of a coronary artery with preserved (but diminished) flow to the distal myocardium. Anticoagulation and antiplatelet agents are given to prevent the narrowed artery from occluding.\n\nAt least 10% of patients with STEMI do not develop myocardial necrosis (as evidenced by a rise in cardiac markers) and subsequent Q waves on EKG after reperfusion therapy. Such a successful restoration of flow to the infarct-related artery during an acute myocardial infarction is known as \"aborting\" the myocardial infarction. If treated within the hour, about 25% of STEMIs can be aborted.\n\nAdditional objectives are to prevent life-threatening arrhythmias or conduction disturbances. This requires monitoring in a coronary care unit and protocolized administration of antiarrhythmic agents. Antiarrhythmic agents are typically only given to individuals with life-threatening arrhythmias after a myocardial infarction and not to suppress the ventricular ectopy that is often seen after a myocardial infarction.\n\nCardiac rehabilitation aims to optimize function and quality of life in those afflicted with a heart disease. This can be with the help of a physician, or in the form of a cardiac rehabilitation program.\n\nPhysical exercise is an important part of rehabilitation after a myocardial infarction, with beneficial effects on cholesterol levels, blood pressure, weight, stress and mood. Some patients become afraid of exercising because it might trigger another infarct. Patients are encouraged to exercise, and should only avoid certain exerting activities. Local authorities may place limitations on driving motor vehicles. In most cases, the advice is a gradual increase in physical exercise during about 6–8 weeks following an MI. If it doesn't feel too hard for the patient, the advice about exercise is then the same as applies to anyone else to gain health benefits, that is, at least 20–30 minutes of moderate exercise on most days (at least five days per week) to the extent of getting slightly short of breath.\n\nSome people are afraid to have sex after a heart attack. Most people can resume sexual activities after 3 to 4 weeks. The amount of activity needs to be dosed to the patient's possibilities.\n\nCocaine associated myocardial infarction should be managed in a manner similar to other patients with acute coronary syndrome, except that beta blockers should not be used and benzodiazepines should be administered early. The treatment itself may have complications. If attempts to restore the blood flow are initiated after a critical period of only a few hours, the result may be a reperfusion injury instead of amelioration.\n\nIn wilderness first aid, a possible heart attack justifies evacuation by the fastest available means, often meaning the initiation of a MEDEVAC. The suspicion or provisional diagnosis of an MI means that it is inappropriate for the patient to walk out of the wilderness setting and will require them to be carried or conveyed in a vehicle. Aspirin, nitroglycerin, and oxygen can all be given with relative ease in a wilderness setting and should be administered as soon as possible in suspected cases of MI. Wilderness management of cardiac arrest differs slightly from that carried out in an urban setting in that it is generally considered acceptable to terminate a resuscitation attempt after 30 minutes if there has been no change in the patient's condition.\n\nCertified personnel traveling by commercial aircraft may be able to assist an MI patient by using the on-board first aid kit, which may contain some cardiac drugs (such as glyceryl trinitrate spray, aspirin, or opioid painkillers), an AED, and oxygen. Pilots may divert the flight to land at a nearby airport. Cardiac monitors are being introduced by some airlines, and they can be used by both on-board and ground-based physicians.\n\n"}
{"id": "30686010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30686010", "title": "Maria Brizzi Giorgi", "text": "Maria Brizzi Giorgi\n\nMaria Brizzi Giorgi (7 August 17757 January 1812 in Bologna) was an Italian organist, composer and pianist noted for her improvisational ability. She was born in Bologna into a musical family, and began to perform in public at an early age. She served as organist and choral director from 1787–89 with the Sisters of St. Bartholomew in Ancona, and then returned to Bologna where she continued her studies in music.\n\nBrizzi married Luigi Giorgi in 1793 and opened a salon, continuing to perform as a pianist in Europe. She was admired as a performer, and Haydn, Muzio Clementi and Leopold Kozeluch dedicated works to her. A military march composed by Brizzi was performed for Napoleon when he passed through Bologna in 1807. She taught music and was member of the Accademia Filarmonica di Bologna. She died in Bologna after childbirth at the age of 36.\n"}
{"id": "14139752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14139752", "title": "Marian Hooper Adams", "text": "Marian Hooper Adams\n\nMarian \"Clover\" Hooper Adams (September 13, 1843 – December 6, 1885) was an American socialite, active society hostess, and arbiter of Washington, DC, and an accomplished amateur photographer.\n\nClover, who has been cited as the inspiration for writer Henry James's \"Daisy Miller\" (1878) and \"The Portrait of a Lady\" (1881), was married to writer Henry Adams. After her suicide, he commissioned the famous Adams Memorial, which features an enigmatic androgynous bronze sculpture by Augustus Saint-Gaudens, to stand at the site of her, and his, grave.\n\nAfter Clover's death, Adams destroyed all the letters that she had ever written to him and rarely, if ever, spoke of her in public. She was also omitted from his \"The Education of Henry Adams\". However, in letters to her friend Anne Palmer Fell, he opened up about his 12 years of happiness with Clover and his difficulty in dealing with her loss.\n\nShe was born in Boston, Massachusetts, the third and youngest child of Robert William Hooper (1810 - April 15, 1885) and Ellen H. Sturgis (1812-November 3, 1848). Her siblings were Ellen Sturgis \"Nella\" Hooper (1838–1887), who married professor Ephraim Whitman Gurney (1829–1886); and Edward William \"Ned\" Hooper (1839–1901). The Hooper family was wealthy and prominent. Clover's birthplace and childhood home in Boston, was at 114 Beacon Street, Beacon Hill. When she was five years old, her mother, a Transcendentalist poet, died and she became very close to her physician father. She was privately educated at a girls school in Cambridge, which was run by Elizabeth and Louis Agassiz.\n\nClover Hooper volunteered for the Sanitary Commission during the Civil War. She defied convention by insisting on watching the review of William Tecumseh Sherman and Ulysses S. Grant's armies in 1865. In 1866, she traveled abroad, where she is said to have met fellow Bostonian Henry Adams in London. Her father and she were living at their home in Beverly, Massachusetts, in July 1870.\n\nOn June 27, 1872, Adams and she were married in Boston, and spent their honeymoon in Europe. Upon their return, he taught at Harvard and their home at 91 Marlborough Street, Boston, became a gathering place for a lively circle of intellectuals. In 1877, they moved to Washington, DC, where their home on Lafayette Square, across from the White House, became a popular place for socializing.\n\nClover remained close to her father, writing him regularly. In June 1880, Dr. Hooper was living at his household on Beacon Street in Boston. Her gossipy letters to her father, other family members, and friends, reveal her to be a gifted reporter and provide an insightful view of the Washington and politics of the day, while the ones she wrote from Europe are not ordinary travel letters, but shrewd reflections on character and society, revealing a critical and sprightly mind.\n\nFrom her reports written in letters, it was widely speculated that actually Clover Hooper Adams was the \"anonymous\" author of \"\" (1880), which was not credited to her husband until 43 years later.\n\nIn 1883, Clover became active in photography and was one of the earliest portrait photographers. Familiarizing herself with the chemicals, she did all her own developing.\n\nHer photographs, which reveal an extraordinary eye, consist of formal and informal portraits of politicians, family friends, various members of the Adams and Hooper families, family pets, and still lifes of interior and exterior locales, including photographs of Washington, Bladensburg, Maryland, Old Sweet Springs, and the Adams family homes in Quincy and Beverly Farms, Massachusetts.\n\nThese images provide insights into 19th-century America and a woman's place in it. Besides the images, Clover also left behind a great deal of information about her photography, including meticulous chronological notes she kept while working in her darkroom, listing photographs and commenting on exposures, lighting, etc., and the references in her letters.\n\nHer work was widely admired, although her husband apparently would not allow her to become professional and discouraged any publication of her photographs.\n\nThe Adams' letters reveal their household to be a normal and happy one. In the beginning, he confessed himself \"absurdly in love,\" and she spoke again and again of Henry's \"utter devotion.\"\n\nClover and her husband hired architect H.H. Richardson and were in the process of having a new home built on Lafayette Square, which was adjacent to the Richardson-designed house being built for John Hay, when her adored father died on April 13, 1885. After Dr. Hooper's death, she sank into bouts of overwhelming depression.\n\nWhile awaiting the completion of the house, they rented one nearby on H Street. Clover documented the construction of the houses with her camera.\n\nWhile alone in her bedroom on a Sunday in early December, 1885, she swallowed potassium cyanide, which she used in developing her photographs.\n\nClover Hooper Adams died at age 42 at her temporary home on H Street in Washington, DC, and was found by her husband lying on the rug before her bedroom fire. The evening newspaper reported that she had suddenly dropped dead from paralysis of the heart.\n\nHer husband commissioned sculptor Augustus Saint-Gaudens and architect Stanford White to create a memorial to mark her grave in Rock Creek Cemetery. The haunting Adams Memorial is probably the most famous of all monuments in the cemetery and is generally considered to be Saint-Gaudens' most famous sculpture.\n\nIn a letter of December 5, 1886, to Clover's friend Anne Palmer Fell, Henry Adams wrote: \"During the last eighteen months I have not had the good luck to attend my own funeral, but with that exception I have buried pretty nearly everything I lived for.\"\n\nIn a letter to Henry Adams, John Hay wrote, \"Is it any consolation to remember her as she was? That bright, intrepid spirit, that keen, fine intellect, that lofty scorn for all that was mean, that social charm which made your house such a one as Washington never knew before and made hundreds of people love her as much as they admired her.\" In a letter to a friend Henry James wrote, \"poor Mrs. Adams found, the other day, the solution of the knottiness of existence.\"\n\nThe Massachusetts Historical Society in Boston houses the photograph collection of Clover Adams and other materials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22140979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22140979", "title": "Nonkilling", "text": "Nonkilling\n\nNonkilling refers to the absence of killing, threats to kill, and conditions conducive to killing in human society. Even though the use of the term in the academic world refers mostly to the killing of human beings, it is sometimes extended to include the killing of animals and other forms of life. This is also the case for the traditional use of the term \"nonkilling\" (or \"non-killing\") as part of Buddhist ethics, as expressed in the first precept of the Pancasila, and in similar terms throughout world spiritual traditions. (See ). Significantly, \"nonkilling\" has also been used recently in the \"Charter for a World without Violence\" approved by the 8th World Summit of Nobel Peace Laureates.\n\nIn analysis of its causes, nonkilling encompasses the concepts of peace (absence of war and conditions conducive to war), nonviolence (psychological, physical, and structural), and ahimsa (noninjury in thought, word and deed). Not excluding any of the latter, nonkilling provides a distinct approach characterized by the measurability of its goals and the open-ended nature of its realization. While the usage of terms such as \"nonviolence\" and \"peace\" often follow the classical form of argument through abstract ideas leading to passivity, killing (and its opposite, nonkilling), it can be quantified and related to specific causes by following a public health perspective (prevention, intervention and post-traumatic transformation toward the progressive eradication of killing).\n\nOn the other hand, nonkilling does not set any predetermined path for the achievement of a killing-free society in the same way as some ideologies and spiritual traditions that foster the restraint from the taking of life do. As an open-ended approach it appeals to infinite human creativity and variability, encouraging continuous explorations in the fields of education, research, social action and policy making, by developing a broad range of scientific, institutional, educational, political, economic and spiritual alternatives to human killing. Also, in spite of its specific focus, nonkilling also tackles broader social issues.\n\nIn relation to psychological aggression, physical assault, and torture intended to terrorize by manifest or latent threat to life, nonkilling implies removal of their psychosocial causes. In relation to killing of humans by socioeconomic structural conditions that are the product of direct lethal reinforcement as well as the result of diversion of resources for purposes of killing, nonkilling implies removal of lethality-linked deprivations. In relation to threats to the viability of the biosphere, nonkilling implies absence of direct attacks upon life-sustaining resources as well as cessation of indirect degradation associated with lethality. In relation to forms of accidental killing, nonkilling implies creation of social and technological conditions conducive to their elimination.\n\nIn a broad conception, nonkilling opposes aggression, assassination, autogenocide, contract killing, corporate manslaughter, cultural genocide, capital punishment, democide, domestic killings, ethnic cleansing, ethnocide, femicide, feticide, gendercide, genocide, honor killing, ritual killings, infanticide, linguicide, mass murder, murder–suicide, omnicide, policide, politicide, regicide, school shootings, structural violence, suicide, terrorism, thrill killing, tyrannicide, violence, war, and other forms of killing, direct, indirect or structural.\n\nIn his book \"Nonkilling Global Political Science\", Glenn D. Paige estimated that less than 0.5 percent of all humans that ever existed actually killed other humans. Also, anthropological evidence points out that in certain societies and cultures killing is down to statistically insignificant levels. As humans lived exclusively as hunter-gatherers — a form of existence that epitomizes the attributes of a nonkilling society — for 99 percent of their existence, it is also apparent that levels of violence and killing have also been very low during most of the history of \"Homo sapiens sapiens\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "628920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=628920", "title": "Philip I, Count of Auvergne", "text": "Philip I, Count of Auvergne\n\nPhilip of Burgundy (November 10, 1323 – August 10, 1346) was Count of Auvergne and Boulogne (as Philip I) in right of his wife and was the only son and heir of Odo IV, Duke of Burgundy, and of Joan III, Countess of Burgundy. His mother was the daughter of King Philip V of France and of Joan II, Countess of Burgundy.\n\nHe married Joan I, Countess of Auvergne and Boulogne, in c. 1338.\n\nIn 1340, he fought with his father who defended the city of Saint-Omer against the assaults of Robert III of Artois. In 1346, he participated in the siege of Aiguillon, led by John, Duke of Normandy (the future John II of France). It was during this siege that he died, after falling from his horse.\n\nHis widow Joan remarried in 1349, her second husband being King John II of France. Since Philip had no other sons from his marriage to Joan, the future of the House of Burgundy was then placed in the hands of his young son Philip (1346–61), who died childless. After the death of the younger Philip, the dukedom of Burgundy became a part of the French crown, and was granted by John II of France to his youngest son (and the previous Duke’s stepbrother), Philip the Bold.\n\nHis daughter, Joan (134411 September 1360), was betrothed to Amadeus VI, Count of Savoy from 1347 to 1355, and was raised at his court. When she was released from the engagement at age 10, she entered a convent at Poissy, where she remained for her final years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "348597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=348597", "title": "Pokémon Crystal", "text": "Pokémon Crystal\n\nOn January 26, 2018, \"Pokémon Crystal\" was released worldwide for the Nintendo 3DS Virtual Console.\n\nThe gameplay of \"Pokémon Crystal\" is largely the same as in \"Gold\" and \"Silver\", although it holds new features. Along with \"Gold\" and \"Silver\", it is one of the first Pokémon games to allow players to choose the sex of their character, while previously the character was always male. Pokémon have animated sprites; for example, when a Cyndaquil enters battle, the flames on its back flicker. This feature was absent in \"Pokémon Ruby\" and \"Sapphire\" and \"Pokémon FireRed\" and \"LeafGreen\", but has appeared in all subsequent games starting with \"Pokémon Emerald\". In addition, a couple of subplots were added, one involving the legendary Pokémon Suicune, featured on the front cover of the game, and the other involving the Unown. The game's biggest addition was the Battle Tower, a new building which allows players to participate in \"Pokémon Stadium\"-like fights. The Japanese edition of the game was exclusively bundled with the , a device that allowed for connecting with other players via mobile phone.\n\nThe setting and plot remains largely the same as \"Pokémon Gold\" and \"Silver\".\n\n\"Pokémon Crystal\" was received well by critics, although many commented that there were just not enough new additions and features to significantly set it apart from \"Pokémon Gold\" and \"Silver\". Craig Harris of IGN gave the game an \"outstanding\" 9 out of 10 stating, \"The final (hopefully) Game Boy Color edition is definitely the version to get if you aren't already one of the upteenth billion owners of the previous games, with \"Crystal\"s slight updates to the design and graphics. But there's not much in this edition that makes it a \"must buy\" for folks who already own a copy or two of the previous editions\". In Japan, \"Famitsu\" magazine scored the game a 34 out of 40.\n\nIt was the second best selling Game Boy Color game in Japan, with 1,871,307 copies sold.\n\n"}
{"id": "30445746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30445746", "title": "Princess Marie of Baden (1782–1808)", "text": "Princess Marie of Baden (1782–1808)\n\nMarie of Baden (\"Marie Elisabeth Wilhelmine\"; 7 September 1782 – 20 April 1808) was a Duchess consort of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel and Brunswick-Oels. She was married to Frederick William, Duke of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel, and was the daughter of Charles Louis, Hereditary Prince of Baden, and Landgravine Amalie of Hesse-Darmstadt.\n\nMarie was born in Karlsruhe. At the time of the war against France, she stayed at Prenzlau. In 1806, her father-in-law fled from the troops of Napoleon to Altona, where he died of the wounds he sustained in the war against France. Marie and her mother-in-law, Princess Augusta of Great Britain, came to see him at his sick-bed, but when the French army headed toward Hamburg, they were advised by the British ambassador to flee, and left shortly before his death. They were both invited to Sweden by Marie's brother-in-law king Gustav IV Adolf of Sweden. Augusta preferred to stay with her niece, Louise Augusta of Denmark in Augustenburg, but Marie accepted the offer and joined the king and queen of Sweden with her children at Malmö, were the royal family stayed without the royal court at the time to be close to the war during the difficult situation. Her spouse was granted permission by the emperor to stay in Altona.\n\nHer brother, the Hereditary Prince of Baden, was married to Stephanie de Beauharnais, and an ally of Napoleon, and joined the emperor in Berlin at the same time. Napoleon refused to see Marie's consort but said that he would like to see her, and Marie's brother wrote to her and asked her to come to Napoleon in Berlin as the ambassador of Brunswick to speak on behalf of her husband. She accepted the suggestion and travelled alone toward Berlin, but was stopped in Stralsund on the order of her husband, as it was believed at the time that Napoleon had plans to marry her to his brother Jérôme Bonaparte. Her husband was reportedly genuinely fond of her and visited her incognito in Sweden two times, despite the fact that Sweden was considered enemy territory by Napoleon.\n\nDuring her stay in Sweden Marie lived with the royal family in Malmö, where they stayed informally during her stay, rather than in state in Stockholm. She was reportedly used to an informal interaction with her ladies-in-waiting and felt restricted in the household of her strict and temperamental brother-in-law the king, whom she found it difficult to get along with. In May 1807, her sister, Queen Frederica, was leaving Malmö and returning to the court at Stockholm to give birth, and asked Marie to come with her, but her husband demanded her to return to Germany, which she did.\n\nOn 1 November 1802, in Karlsruhe, Marie married Frederick William, Duke of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel. Marie had three children before she died at Bruchsal of puerperal fever four days after giving birth to a stillborn daughter.\n\n"}
{"id": "11549406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11549406", "title": "Quality control and genetic algorithms", "text": "Quality control and genetic algorithms\n\nThe combination of quality control and genetic algorithms led to novel solutions of complex quality control design and optimization problems. Quality control is a process by which entities review the quality of all factors involved in production. Quality is the degree to which a set of inherent characteristics fulfils a need or expectation that is stated, general implied or obligatory. Genetic algorithms are search algorithms, based on the mechanics of natural selection and natural genetics. \n\nAlternative quality control (QC) procedures can be applied on a process to test statistically the null hypothesis, that the process conforms to the quality requirements, therefore that the process is in control, against the alternative, that the process is out of control. When a true null hypothesis is rejected, a statistical type I error is committed. We have then a false rejection of a run of the process. The probability of a type I error is called probability of false rejection. When a false null hypothesis is accepted, a statistical type II error is committed. We fail then to detect a significant change in the process. The probability of rejection of a false null hypothesis equals the probability of detection of the nonconformity of the process to the quality requirements.\n\nThe QC procedure to be designed or optimized can be formulated as:\n\n\"Q\"(\"n\",X\")# \"Q\"(\"n\",X\") #...# \"Q\"(\"n\",\"X\") (1)\n\nwhere \"Q\"(\"n\",\"X\") denotes a statistical decision rule, \"n\" denotes the size of the sample S, that is the number of the samples the rule is applied upon, and X denotes the vector of the rule specific parameters, including the decision limits. Each symbol \"#\" denotes either the Boolean operator AND or the operator OR. Obviously, for \"#\" denoting AND, and for \"n\" < \"n\" <...< \"n\", that is for S formula_1 S formula_1 ...formula_1 S, the (1) denotes a \"q\"-sampling QC procedure.\n\nEach statistical decision rule is evaluated by calculating the respective statistic of a monitored variable of samples taken from the process. Then, if the statistic is out of the interval between the decision limits, the decision rule is considered to be true. Many statistics can be used, including the following: a single value of the variable of a sample, the range, the mean, and the standard deviation of the values of the variable of the samples, the cumulative sum, the smoothed mean, and the smoothed standard deviation. Finally, the QC procedure is evaluated as a Boolean proposition. If it is true, then the null hypothesis is considered to be false, the process is considered to be out of control, and the run is rejected.\n\nA quality control procedure is considered to be optimum when it minimizes (or maximizes) a context specific objective function. The objective function depends on the probabilities of detection of the nonconformity of the process and of false rejection. These probabilities depend on the parameters of the quality control procedure (1) and on the probability density functions (see probability density function) of the monitored variables of the process.\n\nGenetic algorithms are robust search algorithms, that do not require knowledge of the objective function to be optimized and search through large spaces quickly. Genetic algorithms have been derived from the processes of the molecular biology of the gene and the evolution of life. Their operators, cross-over, mutation, and reproduction, are isomorphic with the synonymous biological processes. Genetic algorithms have been used to solve a variety of complex optimization problems. Additionally the classifier systems and the genetic programming paradigm have shown us that genetic algorithms can be used for tasks as complex as the program induction.\n\nIn general, we can not use algebraic methods to optimize the quality control procedures. Usage of enumerative methods would be very tedious, especially with multi-rule procedures, as the number of the points of the parameter space to be searched grows exponentially with the number of the parameters to be optimized. Optimization methods based on the genetic algorithms offer an appealing alternative. \n\nFurthermore, the complexity of the design process of novel quality control procedures is obviously greater than the complexity of the optimization of predefined ones. \n\nIn fact, since 1993, genetic algorithms have been used successfully to optimize and to design novel quality control procedures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25984", "title": "Ray Kurzweil", "text": "Ray Kurzweil\n\nRaymond Kurzweil ( ; born February 12, 1948) is an American inventor, and futurist. He is involved in fields such as optical character recognition (OCR), text-to-speech synthesis, speech recognition technology, and electronic keyboard instruments. He has written books on health, artificial intelligence (AI), transhumanism, the technological singularity, and futurism. Kurzweil is a public advocate for the futurist and transhumanist movements, and gives public talks to share his optimistic outlook on life extension technologies and the future of nanotechnology, robotics, and biotechnology.\n\nKurzweil received the 1999 National Medal of Technology and Innovation, the United States' highest honor in technology, from President Clinton in a White House ceremony. He was the recipient of the $500,000 Lemelson-MIT Prize for 2001, the world's largest for innovation. And in 2002 he was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame, established by the U.S. Patent Office. He has received 21 honorary doctorates, and honors from three U.S. presidents. PBS included Kurzweil as one of 16 \"revolutionaries who made America\" along with other inventors of the past two centuries. \"Inc.\" magazine ranked him #8 among the \"most fascinating\" entrepreneurs in the United States and called him \"Edison's rightful heir\".\n\nKurzweil has written seven books, five of which have been national bestsellers. \"The Age of Spiritual Machines\" has been translated into 9 languages and was the #1 best-selling book on Amazon in science. Kurzweil's book \"The Singularity Is Near\" was a \"New York Times\" bestseller, and has been the #1 book on Amazon in both science and philosophy. Kurzweil speaks widely to audiences both public and private and regularly delivers keynote speeches at industry conferences like DEMO, SXSW, and TED. He maintains the news website KurzweilAI.net, which has over three million readers annually.\n\nKurzweil has been employed by Google since 2012, where he is a \"director of engineering\".\n\nRay Kurzweil grew up in the New York City borough of Queens. He attended NYC Public Education Kingsbury Elementary School PS188. He was born to secular Jewish parents who had emigrated from Austria just before the onset of World War II. He was exposed via Unitarian Universalism to a diversity of religious faiths during his upbringing. His Unitarian church had the philosophy of many paths to the truth – the religious education consisted of studying a single religion for six months before moving on to the next. His father, Fredric was a concert pianist, a noted conductor, and a music educator. His mother, Hannah was a visual artist. He has one sibling, his sister Enid.\n\nKurzweil decided he wanted to be an inventor at the age of five. As a young boy, Kurzweil had an inventory of parts from various construction toys he’d been given and old electronic gadgets he’d collected from neighbors. In his youth, Kurzweil was an avid reader of science fiction literature. At the age of eight, nine, and ten, he read the entire Tom Swift Jr. series. At the age of seven or eight, he built a robotic puppet theater and robotic game. He was involved with computers by the age of 12 (in 1960), when only a dozen computers existed in all of New York City, and built computing devices and statistical programs for the predecessor of Head Start. At the age of fourteen, Kurzweil wrote a paper detailing his theory of the neocortex. His parents were involved with the arts, and he is quoted in the documentary \"Transcendent Man\" as saying that the household always produced discussions about the future and technology.\n\nKurzweil attended Martin Van Buren High School. During class, he often held onto his class textbooks to seemingly participate, but instead, focused on his own projects which were hidden behind the book. His uncle, an engineer at Bell Labs, taught young Kurzweil the basics of computer science. In 1963, at age 15, he wrote his first computer program. He created pattern-recognition software that analyzed the works of classical composers, and then synthesized its own songs in similar styles. In 1965, he was invited to appear on the CBS television program \"I've Got a Secret\", where he performed a piano piece that was composed by a computer he also had built. Later that year, he won first prize in the International Science Fair for the invention; Kurzweil's submission to Westinghouse Talent Search of his first computer program alongside several other projects resulted in him being one of its national winners, which allowed him to be personally congratulated by President Lyndon B. Johnson during a White House ceremony. These activities collectively impressed upon Kurzweil the belief that nearly any problem could be overcome.\n\nWhile in high school, Kurzweil had corresponded with Marvin Minsky and was invited to visit him at MIT, which he did. Kurzweil also visited Frank Rosenblatt at Cornell.\n\nHe obtained a B.S. in computer science and literature in 1970 at MIT. He went to MIT to study with Marvin Minsky. He took all of the computer programming courses (eight or nine) offered at MIT in the first year and a half.\n\nIn 1968, during his sophomore year at MIT, Kurzweil started a company that used a computer program to match high school students with colleges. The program, called the Select College Consulting Program, was designed by him and compared thousands of different criteria about each college with questionnaire answers submitted by each student applicant. Around this time, he sold the company to Harcourt, Brace & World for $100,000 (roughly $670,000 in 2013 dollars) plus royalties.\n\nIn 1974, Kurzweil founded Kurzweil Computer Products, Inc. and led development of the first omni-font optical character recognition system, a computer program capable of recognizing text written in any normal font. Before that time, scanners had only been able to read text written in a few fonts. He decided that the best application of this technology would be to create a reading machine, which would allow blind people to understand written text by having a computer read it to them aloud. However, this device required the invention of two enabling technologies—the CCD flatbed scanner and the text-to-speech synthesizer. Development of these technologies was completed at other institutions such as Bell Labs, and on January 13, 1976, the finished product was unveiled during a news conference headed by him and the leaders of the National Federation of the Blind. Called the Kurzweil Reading Machine, the device covered an entire tabletop.\n\nKurzweil's next major business venture began in 1978, when Kurzweil Computer Products began selling a commercial version of the optical character recognition computer program. LexisNexis was one of the first customers, and bought the program to upload paper legal and news documents onto its nascent online databases.\n\nKurzweil sold his Kurzweil Computer Products to Lernout & Hauspie. Following the legal and bankruptcy problems of the latter, the system became a subsidiary of Xerox later known as Scansoft and now as Nuance Communications, and he functioned as a consultant for the former until 1995.\n\nKurzweil's next business venture was in the realm of electronic music technology. After a 1982 meeting with Stevie Wonder, in which the latter lamented the divide in capabilities and qualities between electronic synthesizers and traditional musical instruments, Kurzweil was inspired to create a new generation of music synthesizers capable of accurately duplicating the sounds of real instruments. Kurzweil Music Systems was founded in the same year, and in 1984, the Kurzweil K250 was unveiled. The machine was capable of imitating a number of instruments, and in tests musicians were unable to discern the difference between the Kurzweil K250 on piano mode from a normal grand piano. The recording and mixing abilities of the machine, coupled with its abilities to imitate different instruments, made it possible for a single user to compose and play an entire orchestral piece.\n\nKurzweil Music Systems was sold to South Korean musical instrument manufacturer Young Chang in 1990. As with Xerox, Kurzweil remained as a consultant for several years. Hyundai acquired Young Chang in 2006 and in January 2007 appointed Raymond Kurzweil as Chief Strategy Officer of Kurzweil Music Systems.\n\nConcurrent with Kurzweil Music Systems, Kurzweil created the company Kurzweil Applied Intelligence (KAI) to develop computer speech recognition systems for commercial use. The first product, which debuted in 1987, was an early speech recognition program.\n\nKurzweil started Kurzweil Educational Systems in 1996 to develop new pattern-recognition-based computer technologies to help people with disabilities such as blindness, dyslexia and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in school. Products include the Kurzweil 1000 text-to-speech converter software program, which enables a computer to read electronic and scanned text aloud to blind or visually impaired users, and the Kurzweil 3000 program, which is a multifaceted electronic learning system that helps with reading, writing, and study skills.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Kurzweil founded the Medical Learning Company. The company's products included an interactive computer education program for doctors and a computer-simulated patient. Around the same time, Kurzweil started KurzweilCyberArt.com—a website featuring computer programs to assist the creative art process. The site used to offer free downloads of a program called AARON—a visual art synthesizer developed by Harold Cohen—and of \"Kurzweil's Cybernetic Poet\", which automatically creates poetry. During this period he also started KurzweilAI.net, a website devoted towards showcasing news of scientific developments, publicizing the ideas of high-tech thinkers and critics alike, and promoting futurist-related discussion among the general population through the Mind-X forum.\n\nIn 1999, Kurzweil created a hedge fund called \"FatKat\" (Financial Accelerating Transactions from Kurzweil Adaptive Technologies), which began trading in 2006. He has stated that the ultimate aim is to improve the performance of FatKat's A.I. investment software program, enhancing its ability to recognize patterns in \"currency fluctuations and stock-ownership trends.\" He predicted in his 1999 book, \"The Age of Spiritual Machines,\" that computers will one day prove superior to the best human financial minds at making profitable investment decisions.\nIn June 2005, Kurzweil introduced the \"Kurzweil-National Federation of the Blind Reader\" (K-NFB Reader)—a pocket-sized device consisting of a digital camera and computer unit. Like the Kurzweil Reading Machine of almost 30 years before, the K-NFB Reader is designed to aid blind people by reading written text aloud. The newer machine is portable and scans text through digital camera images, while the older machine is large and scans text through flatbed scanning.\n\nIn December 2012, Kurzweil was hired by Google in a full-time position to \"work on new projects involving machine learning and language processing\". He was personally hired by Google co-founder Larry Page. Larry Page and Kurzweil agreed on a one-sentence job description: \"to bring natural language understanding to Google\".\n\nHe received a Technical Grammy on February 8, 2015, recognizing his diverse technical and creative accomplishments. For purposes of the Grammy, perhaps most notable was the aforementioned Kurzweil K250.\n\nKurzweil has joined the Alcor Life Extension Foundation, a cryonics company. In the event of his declared death, Kurzweil plans to be perfused with cryoprotectants, vitrified in liquid nitrogen, and stored at an Alcor facility in the hope that future medical technology will be able to repair his tissues and revive him.\n\nKurzweil is agnostic about the existence of a soul. On the possibility of divine intelligence, Kurzweil has said, \"Does God exist? I would say, 'Not yet.'\"\n\nKurzweil married Sonya Rosenwald Kurzweil in 1975 and has two children. Sonya Kurzweil is a psychologist in private practice in Newton, Massachusetts, working with women, children, parents and families. She holds faculty appointments at Harvard Medical School and William James College for Graduate Education in Psychology. Her research interests and publications are in the area of psychotherapy practice. Kurzweil also serves as an active Overseer at Boston Children's Museum. \n\nHe has a son, Ethan Kurzweil, who is a venture capitalist, and a daughter, Amy Kurzweil, who is a writer and cartoonist. Kurzweil is a cousin of writer Allen Kurzweil.\n\nKurzweil said \"I realize that most inventions fail not because the R&D department can’t get them to work, but because the timing is wrongnot all of the enabling factors are at play where they are needed. Inventing is a lot like surfing: you have to anticipate and catch the wave at just the right moment.\"\n\nFor the past several decades, Kurzweil's most effective and common approach to doing creative work has been conducted during his lucid dreamlike state which immediately precedes his awakening state. He claims to have constructed inventions, solved difficult problems, such as algorithmic, business strategy, organizational, and interpersonal problems, and written speeches in this state.\n\nKurzweil's first book, \"The Age of Intelligent Machines\", was published in 1990. The nonfiction work discusses the history of computer artificial intelligence (AI) and forecasts future developments. Other experts in the field of AI contribute heavily to the work in the form of essays. The Association of American Publishers' awarded it the status of \"Most Outstanding Computer Science Book\" of 1990.\n\nIn 1993, Kurzweil published a book on nutrition called \"The 10% Solution for a Healthy Life\". The book's main idea is that high levels of fat intake are the cause of many health disorders common in the U.S., and thus that cutting fat consumption down to 10% of the total calories consumed would be optimal for most people.\n\nIn 1999, Kurzweil published \"The Age of Spiritual Machines\", which further elucidates his theories regarding the future of technology, which themselves stem from his analysis of long-term trends in biological and technological evolution. Much emphasis is on the likely course of AI development, along with the future of computer architecture.\n\nKurzweil's next book, published in 2004, returned to human health and nutrition. \"\" was co-authored by Terry Grossman, a medical doctor and specialist in alternative medicine.\n\n\"The Singularity Is Near\", published in 2005, was made into a movie starring Pauley Perrette from NCIS. In February 2007, Ptolemaic Productions acquired the rights to \"The Singularity is Near\", \"The Age of Spiritual Machines\" and \"Fantastic Voyage\" including the rights to film Kurzweil's life and ideas for the documentary film \"Transcendent Man\", which was directed by Barry Ptolemy.\n\n\"Transcend: Nine Steps to Living Well Forever\", a follow-up to \"Fantastic Voyage\", was released on April 28, 2009.\n\nKurzweil's book, \"How to Create a Mind: The Secret of Human Thought Revealed,\" was released on Nov. 13, 2012. In it Kurzweil describes his Pattern Recognition Theory of Mind, the theory that the neocortex is a hierarchical system of pattern recognizers, and argues that emulating this architecture in machines could lead to an artificial superintelligence.\n\nKurzweil's latest book and first fiction novel, \"Danielle: Chronicles of a Superheroine\", follows a young girl who uses her intelligence and the help of her friends to tackle real-world problems. The book comes with companion materials, \"A Chronicle of Ideas\", and \"How You Can Be a Danielle\" that provide real-world context. The book is set to release in January 2019. \n\nKurzweil wrote and co-produced a movie directed by Anthony Waller, called \"The Singularity Is Near: A True Story About the Future\", in 2010 based, in part, on his 2005 book \"The Singularity Is Near\". Part fiction, part non-fiction, he interviews 20 big thinkers like Marvin Minsky, plus there is a B-line narrative story that illustrates some of the ideas, where a computer avatar (Ramona) saves the world from self-replicating microscopic robots. In addition to his movie, an independent, feature-length documentary was made about Kurzweil, his life, and his ideas, called \"Transcendent Man\". Filmmakers Barry Ptolemy and Felicia Ptolemy followed Kurzweil, documenting his global speaking-tour. Premiered in 2009 at the Tribeca Film Festival, \"Transcendent Man\" documents Kurzweil's quest to reveal mankind's ultimate destiny and explores many of the ideas found in his New York Times bestselling book, \"The Singularity Is Near\", including his concept exponential growth, radical life expansion, and how we will transcend our biology. The Ptolemys documented Kurzweil's stated goal of bringing back his late father using AI. The film also features critics who argue against Kurzweil's predictions.\n\nIn 2010, an independent documentary film called \"Plug & Pray\" premiered at the Seattle International Film Festival, in which Kurzweil and one of his major critics, the late Joseph Weizenbaum, argue about the benefits of eternal life.\n\nThe feature-length documentary film \"The Singularity\" by independent filmmaker Doug Wolens (released at the end of 2012), showcasing Kurzweil, has been acclaimed as \"a large-scale achievement in its documentation of futurist and counter-futurist ideas” and “the best documentary on the Singularity to date.\"\n\nKurzweil frequently comments on the application of cell-size nanotechnology to the workings of the human brain and how this could be applied to building AI. While being interviewed for a February 2009 issue of \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, Kurzweil expressed a desire to construct a genetic copy of his late father, Fredric Kurzweil, from DNA within his grave site. This feat would be achieved by exhumation and extraction of DNA, constructing a clone of Fredric and retrieving memories and recollections—from Ray's mind—of his father. Kurzweil kept all of his father's records, notes, and pictures in order to maintain as much of his father as he could. Ray is known for taking over 200 pills a day, meant to reprogram his biochemistry. This, according to Ray, is only a precursor to the devices at the nano scale that will eventually replace a blood-cell, self updating of specific pathogens to improve the immune system.\n\nIn his 1999 book \"The Age of Spiritual Machines\", Kurzweil proposed \"The Law of Accelerating Returns\", according to which the rate of change in a wide variety of evolutionary systems (including the growth of technologies) tends to increase exponentially. He gave further focus to this issue in a 2001 essay entitled \"The Law of Accelerating Returns\", which proposed an extension of Moore's law to a wide variety of technologies, and used this to argue in favor of Vernor Vinge's concept of a technological singularity. Kurzweil suggests that this exponential technological growth is counter-intuitive to the way our brains perceive the world—since our brains were biologically inherited from humans living in a world that was linear and local—and, as a consequence, he claims it has encouraged great skepticism in his future projections.\n\nKurzweil was working with the Army Science Board in 2006 to develop a rapid response system to deal with the possible abuse of biotechnology. He suggested that the same technologies that are empowering us to reprogram biology away from cancer and heart disease could be used by a bioterrorist to reprogram a biological virus to be more deadly, communicable, and stealthy. However, he suggests that we have the scientific tools to successfully defend against these attacks, similar to the way we defend against computer software viruses. He has testified before Congress on the subject of nanotechnology, advocating that nanotechnology has the potential to solve serious global problems such as poverty, disease, and climate change. \"Nanotech Could Give Global Warming a Big Chill\".\n\nIn media appearances, Kurzweil has stressed the extreme potential dangers of nanotechnology but argues that in practice, progress cannot be stopped because that would require a totalitarian system, and any attempt to do so would drive dangerous technologies underground and deprive responsible scientists of the tools needed for defense. He suggests that the proper place of regulation is to ensure that technological progress proceeds safely and quickly, but does not deprive the world of profound benefits. He stated, \"To avoid dangers such as unrestrained nanobot replication, we need relinquishment at the right level and to place our highest priority on the continuing advance of defensive technologies, staying ahead of destructive technologies. An overall strategy should include a streamlined regulatory process, a global program of monitoring for unknown or evolving biological pathogens, temporary moratoriums, raising public awareness, international cooperation, software reconnaissance, and fostering values of liberty, tolerance, and respect for knowledge and diversity.\"\n\nKurzweil admits that he cared little for his health until age 35, when he was found to suffer from a glucose intolerance, an early form of type II diabetes (a major risk factor for heart disease). Kurzweil then found a doctor (Terry Grossman, M.D.) who shares his somewhat unconventional beliefs to develop an extreme regimen involving hundreds of pills, chemical intravenous treatments, red wine, and various other methods to attempt to live longer. Kurzweil was ingesting \"250 supplements, eight to 10 glasses of alkaline water and 10 cups of green tea\" every day and drinking several glasses of red wine a week in an effort to \"reprogram\" his biochemistry. By 2008, he had reduced the number of supplement pills to 150.\n\nKurzweil has made a number of bold claims for his health regimen. In his book The Singularity Is Near, he claimed that he brought his cholesterol level down from the high 200s to 130, raised his HDL (high-density lipoprotein) from below 30 to 55, and lowered his homocysteine from an unhealthy 11 to a much safer 6.2. He also claimed that his C-reactive protein \"and all of my other indexes (for heart disease, diabetes, and other conditions) are at ideal levels.\" He further claimed that his health regimen, including dramatically reducing his fat intake, successfully \"reversed\" his type 2 diabetes. (The Singularity Is Near, p. 211)\n\nHe has written three books on the subjects of nutrition, health, and immortality: \"The 10% Solution for a Healthy Life\", \"\" and \"Transcend: Nine Steps to Living Well Forever\". In all, he recommends that other people emulate his health practices to the best of their abilities. Kurzweil and his current \"anti-aging\" doctor, Terry Grossman, now have two websites promoting their first and second book.\n\nKurzweil asserts that in the future, everyone will live forever. In a 2013 interview, he said that in 15 years, medical technology could add more than a year to one's remaining life expectancy for each year that passes, and we could then \"outrun our own deaths\". Among other things, he has supported the SENS Research Foundation's approach to finding a way to repair aging damage, and has encouraged the general public to hasten their research by donating.\n\nAccording to Kurzweil, technologists will be creating synthetic neocortexes based on the operating principles of the human neocortex with the primary purpose of extending our own neocortexes. He claims to believe that the neocortex of an adult human consists of approximately 300 million pattern recognizers. He draws on the commonly accepted belief that the primary anatomical difference between humans and other primates that allowed for superior intellectual abilities was the evolution of a larger neocortex. He claims that the six-layered neocortex deals with increasing abstraction from one layer to the next. He says that at the low levels, the neocortex may seem cold and mechanical because it can only make simple decisions, but at the higher levels of the hierarchy, the neocortex is likely to be dealing with concepts like being funny, being sexy, expressing a loving sentiment, creating a poem or understanding a poem, etc. He claims to believe that these higher levels of the human neocortex were the enabling factors to permit the human development of language, technology, art, and science. He stated, \"If the quantitative improvement from primates to humans with the big forehead was the enabling factor to allow for language, technology, art, and science, what kind of qualitative leap can we make with another quantitative increase? Why not go from 300 million pattern recognizers to a billion?”\n\nKurzweil's standing as a futurist and transhumanist has led to his involvement in several singularity-themed organizations. In December 2004, Kurzweil joined the advisory board of the Machine Intelligence Research Institute. In October 2005, Kurzweil joined the scientific advisory board of the Lifeboat Foundation. On May 13, 2006, Kurzweil was the first speaker at the Singularity Summit at Stanford University in Palo Alto, California. In May 2013, Kurzweil was the keynote speaker at the 2013 proceeding of the Research, Innovation, Start-up and Employment (RISE) international conference in Seoul, Korea Republic.\n\nIn February 2009, Kurzweil, in collaboration with Google and the NASA Ames Research Center in Mountain View, California, announced the creation of the Singularity University training center for corporate executives and government officials. The University's self-described mission is to \"assemble, educate and inspire a cadre of leaders who strive to understand and facilitate the development of exponentially advancing technologies and apply, focus and guide these tools to address humanity's grand challenges\". Using Vernor Vinge's Singularity concept as a foundation, the university offered its first nine-week graduate program to 40 students in June, 2009.\n\nKurzweil's first book, \"The Age of Intelligent Machines\", presented his ideas about the future. It was written from 1986 to 1989 and published in 1990. Building on Ithiel de Sola Pool's \"Technologies of Freedom\" (1983), Kurzweil claims to have forecast the dissolution of the Soviet Union due to new technologies such as cellular phones and fax machines disempowering authoritarian governments by removing state control over the flow of information. In the book, Kurzweil also extrapolated preexisting trends in the improvement of computer chess software performance to predict that computers would beat the best human players \"by the year 2000\". In May 1997, chess World Champion Garry Kasparov was defeated by IBM's Deep Blue computer in a well-publicized chess match.\n\nPerhaps most significantly, Kurzweil foresaw the explosive growth in worldwide Internet use that began in the 1990s. At the time of the publication of \"The Age of Intelligent Machines\", there were only 2.6 million Internet users in the world, and the medium was unreliable, difficult to use, and deficient in content. He also stated that the Internet would explode not only in the number of users but in content as well, eventually granting users access \"to international networks of libraries, data bases, and information services\". Additionally, Kurzweil claims to have correctly foreseen that the preferred mode of Internet access would inevitably be through wireless systems, and he was also correct to estimate that the latter would become practical for widespread use in the early 21st century.\n\nIn October 2010, Kurzweil released his report, \"How My Predictions Are Faring\" in PDF format, which analyzes the predictions he made in his book \"The Age of Intelligent Machines\" (1990), \"The Age of Spiritual Machines\" (1999) and \"The Singularity is Near\" (2005). Of the 147 total predictions, Kurzweil claims that 115 were \"entirely correct\", 12 were \"essentially correct\", and 17 were \"partially correct\", and only 3 were \"wrong\". Adding together the \"entirely\" and \"essentially\" correct, Kurzweil's claimed accuracy rate comes to 86%.\n\nDaniel Lyons, writing in \"Newsweek\" magazine, criticized Kurzweil for some of his predictions that turned out to be wrong, such as the economy continuing to boom from the 1998 dot-com through 2009, a US company having a market capitalization of more than $1 trillion, a supercomputer achieving 20 petaflops, speech recognition being in widespread use and cars that would drive themselves using sensors installed in highways; all by 2009. To the charge that a 20 petaflop supercomputer was not produced in the time he predicted, Kurzweil responded that he considers Google a giant supercomputer, and that it is indeed capable of 20 petaflops.\n\nKurzweil's predictions for 2009 were mostly inaccurate, claims \"Forbes\" magazine. For example, Kurzweil predicted, \"The majority of text is created using continuous speech recognition.\" This is not the case.\n\nIn 1999, Kurzweil published a second book titled \"The Age of Spiritual Machines\", which goes into more depth explaining his futurist ideas. The third and final part of the book is devoted to predictions over the coming century, from 2009 through 2099. In \"The Singularity Is Near\" he makes fewer concrete short-term predictions, but includes many longer-term visions.\n\nHe states that with radical life extension will come radical life enhancement. He says he is confident that within 10 years we will have the option to spend some of our time in 3D virtual environments that appear just as real as real reality, but these will not yet be made possible via direct interaction with our nervous system. \"If you look at video games and how we went from pong to the virtual reality we have available today, it is highly likely that immortality in essence will be possible.\" He believes that 20 to 25 years from now, we will have millions of blood-cell sized devices, known as nanobots, inside our bodies fighting against diseases, improving our memory, and cognitive abilities. Kurzweil says that a machine will pass the Turing test by 2029, and that around 2045, \"the pace of change will be so astonishingly quick that we won't be able to keep up, unless we enhance our own intelligence by merging with the intelligent machines we are creating\". Kurzweil states that humans will be a hybrid of biological and non-biological intelligence that becomes increasingly dominated by its non-biological component. He stresses that \"AI is not an intelligent invasion from Mars. These are brain extenders that we have created to expand our own mental reach. They are part of our civilization. They are part of who we are. So over the next few decades our human-machine civilization will become increasingly dominated by its non-biological component. In \"Transcendent Man\" Kurzweil states \"We humans are going to start linking with each other and become a metaconnection we will all be connected and all be omnipresent, plugged into this global network that is connected to billions of people, and filled with data.\"\n\nIn 2008, Kurzweil said in an expert panel in the National Academy of Engineering that solar power will scale up to produce all the energy needs of Earth's people in 20 years. According to Kurzweil, we only need to capture 1 part in 10,000 of the energy from the Sun that hits Earth's surface to meet all of humanity's energy needs.\n\nKurzweil was referred to as \"the ultimate thinking machine\" by \"Forbes\" and as a \"restless genius\" by \"The Wall Street Journal\". PBS included Kurzweil as one of 16 \"revolutionaries who made America\" along with other inventors of the past two centuries. \"Inc.\" magazine ranked him #8 among the \"most fascinating\" entrepreneurs in the United States and called him \"Edison's rightful heir\".\n\nAlthough the idea of a technological singularity is a popular concept in science fiction, some authors such as Neal Stephenson and Bruce Sterling have voiced skepticism about its real-world plausibility. Sterling expressed his views on the singularity scenario in a talk at the Long Now Foundation entitled \"The Singularity: Your Future as a Black Hole\". Other prominent AI thinkers and computer scientists such as Daniel Dennett, Rodney Brooks, David Gelernter and Paul Allen also criticized Kurzweil's projections.\n\nIn the cover article of the December 2010 issue of \"IEEE Spectrum\", John Rennie criticizes Kurzweil for several predictions that failed to become manifest by the originally predicted date. \"Therein lie the frustrations of Kurzweil's brand of tech punditry. On close examination, his clearest and most successful predictions often lack originality or profundity. And most of his predictions come with so many loopholes that they border on the unfalsifiable.\"\n\nBill Joy, cofounder of Sun Microsystems, agrees with Kurzweil's timeline of future progress, but thinks that technologies such as AI, nanotechnology and advanced biotechnology will create a dystopian world. Mitch Kapor, the founder of Lotus Development Corporation, has called the notion of a technological singularity \"intelligent design for the IQ 140 people...This proposition that we're heading to this point at which everything is going to be just unimaginably different—it's fundamentally, in my view, driven by a religious impulse. And all of the frantic arm-waving can't obscure that fact for me.\"\n\nSome critics have argued more strongly against Kurzweil and his ideas. Cognitive scientist Douglas Hofstadter has said of Kurzweil's and Hans Moravec's books: \"It's an intimate mixture of rubbish and good ideas, and it's very hard to disentangle the two, because these are smart people; they're not stupid.\" Biologist P. Z. Myers has criticized Kurzweil's predictions as being based on \"New Age spiritualism\" rather than science and says that Kurzweil does not understand basic biology. VR pioneer Jaron Lanier has even described Kurzweil's ideas as \"cybernetic totalism\" and has outlined his views on the culture surrounding Kurzweil's predictions in an essay for Edge.org entitled \"One Half of a Manifesto\".\n\nBritish philosopher John Gray argues that contemporary science is what magic was for ancient civilizations. It gives a sense of hope for those who are willing to do almost anything in order to achieve eternal life. He quotes Kurzweil's Singularity as another example of a trend which has almost always been present in the history of mankind.\n\n\"The Brain Makers\", a history of artificial intelligence written in 1994 by HP Newquist, noted that \"Born with the same gift for self-promotion that was a character trait of people like P.T. Barnum and Ed Feigenbaum, Kurzweil had no problems talking up his technical prowess . . . Ray Kurzweil was not noted for his understatement.\" \n\nIn a 2015 paper, William D. Nordhaus of Yale University, takes an economic look at the impacts of an impending technological singularity. He comments: \"There is remarkably little writing on Singularity in the modern macroeconomic literature.\" Nordhaus supposes that the Singularity could arise from either the demand or supply side of a market economy, but for information technology to proceed at the kind of pace Kurzweil suggests, there would have to be significant productivity trade-offs. Namely, in order to devote more resources to producing super computers we must decrease our production of non-information technology goods. Using a variety of econometric methods, Nordhaus runs six supply side tests and one demand side test to track the macroeconomic viability of such steep rises in information technology output. Of the seven tests only two indicated that a Singularity was economically possible and both of those two predicted, at minimum, 100 years before it would occur.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45407419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45407419", "title": "Sardar Abdul Wahid", "text": "Sardar Abdul Wahid\n\nSardar Abdul Wahib (born 12 March 1901, date of death unknown) was an Afghanistan field hockey player, who competed at the 1936 Summer Olympic Games and played in one game.\n"}
{"id": "11227464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11227464", "title": "Shooting of Kayla Rolland", "text": "Shooting of Kayla Rolland\n\nKayla Rolland (May 12, 1993 – February 29, 2000) was an American 6-year-old girl from Mount Morris Township, Michigan, who was murdered on February 29, 2000. Rolland was shot and killed by her classmate Dedrick Owens, also 6-years-old, at Buell Elementary School in the Beecher Community School District. The murder drew worldwide attention due to the particularly young ages of the victim and the perpetrator: Rolland was the youngest school shooting victim in the United States until the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in 2012, and Owens remains the youngest school shooting perpetrator to-date. Owens could not be legally charged for murder because of his age. Buell Elementary School closed in 2002.\n\nDedrick Darnell Owens (born on May 5, 1993) was a 6-year-old first grader at Buell Elementary School in the Beecher Community School District, located in Mount Morris Township near Flint, Michigan. Owens' father was in jail for violating parole, having previously been convicted for possession of cocaine \"with intent to deliver,\" and had been living with his mother Tamarla, a drug addict, and his eight-year-old brother. His mother was evicted from her home, and the two boys then moved into their uncle's house, where they shared a single sofa as a bed. The home was a crack house operated by his uncle and a 19-year-old man where guns were frequently traded for drugs, and at some point Owens had found a loaded Davis Industries P-32 .32-caliber handgun under some blankets.\n\nOwens was known to have behavioral problems, and was made to stay after school nearly every day for saying \"the F word,\" flipping people off, pinching and hitting. Some weeks before the shooting he had stabbed a girl with a pencil. Chris Boaz, a seven-year-old classmate, claimed Owens once punched him because he would not give him a pickle. Owens had attacked Kayla Rolland before and, on the day prior to the killing, tried to kiss her and was rebuffed. Early on the morning of the shooting, Owens and his brother got into a fight with Boaz's 10-year-old uncle, who punched Owens, and according to Boaz's grandmother said \"Do you want me to take my gap [sic] out and shoot you?\"\n\nOn February 29, 2000, Owens had brought the firearm, along with a knife, with him to school. Further in the day, during a change of classes, Owens fatally shot 6-year-old Kayla Rolland in the presence of a teacher and 22 students while they were moving up a floor on the stairs, saying to her: \"I don't like you\", before pulling the trigger. The bullets entered her right arm and travelled through a vital artery. At 10:29 a.m. EST, Rolland was pronounced dead at Hurley Medical Center while in cardiac arrest. Owens then threw the handgun into a trash basket and fled to a nearby restroom. He was found there, in the corner, by a teacher and was taken into police custody soon after. He was held in custody until the Genesee County Family Independence Agency could determine his placement. He and his two younger siblings have since been placed with an aunt.\n\nAt six years of age, Kayla Rolland is believed to have been the youngest school shooting victim in United States history, which was not surpassed until the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting in December 2012. Dedrick Owens became the youngest school shooter in the United States, and the legal claim that at that age he would lack the ability to form intent, he was not charged with the murder. In most U.S. states, six-year-olds are not liable for crimes they commit, and the Genesee County Prosecutor Arthur Busch called on the citizens to collectively hug the boy presumably out of pity and sympathy. In an 1893 ruling, the U.S. Supreme Court declared that \"children under the age of 7 years could not be guilty of felony, or punished for any capital offense, for within that age the child is conclusively presumed incapable of committing a crime.\" This is followed in many U.S. states.\n\nJamelle James, Owens' uncle who owned the .32-caliber pistol used in the murder, eventually pleaded no contest to involuntary manslaughter and spent two years and five months in prison before he was released on probation. The other adults involved would be in and out of court systems in the years to follow. A search of James' house produced a loaded pump-action shotgun and a rock of crack cocaine.\n\nBuell Elementary closed in 2002 due to dwindling enrollment and stressed finances. The campus was heavily damaged by arson in 2005, and was demolished in 2009.\n\nIt is not known where Owens resides today. \n\nRolland's murder was documented in the 2002 Michael Moore film \"Bowling for Columbine\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12559477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12559477", "title": "Sidney Leslie Goodwin", "text": "Sidney Leslie Goodwin\n\nSidney Leslie Goodwin (9 September 1910 – 15 April 1912) was a 19-month-old English boy who died during the sinking of the RMS \"Titanic\". His unidentified body was recovered by the \"Mackay-Bennett\" after the sinking, and for decades was referred to as The Unknown Child. His headstone read \"Erected to the memory of an unknown child whose remains were recovered after the disaster to the Titanic April 15th 1912\". In 2008, mitochondrial DNA testing by the Armed Forces lab revealed his identity. Baby Goodwin is the only member of his family whose body has been recovered and subsequently identified.\n\nSidney was born on 9 September 1910 in Melksham, Wiltshire, England. He was the youngest child born to Frederick Joseph and Augusta (née Tyler) Goodwin. Sidney had five older siblings - Lillian, Charles, William, Jessie, and Harold.\n\nFrederick's brother, Thomas, had already left England and was living in Niagara Falls, New York. Thomas wrote to Frederick, telling him about the opening of a power station there. It has been speculated that the famed Schoellkopf Hydroelectric Power Station (Station A), due to open in 1912, would have been his employer had he lived. Frederick, a compositor, packed up his wife and six children to prepare for the move. They booked third-class passage on the S.S. \"New York\" out of Southampton, but due to a coal strike that year the vessel's passage was delayed, and they were transferred to the RMS \"Titanic\". They boarded the \"Titanic\" in Southampton as third-class passengers.\n\nNot much is known about the Goodwins' activities during the voyage, except that they may have been separated by sex in opposite ends of the ship, Frederick and his older sons in the bow, and Augusta with Sidney and the girls in the stern. Harold also met and spent some time with Frank Goldsmith, who survived.\n\nBy the time the Goodwins received a warning about the collision with the iceberg, all the lifeboats had been launched. The entire family perished in the sinking.\n\nIn his book, \"The Night Lives On\", historian Walter Lord devoted a chapter (\"What Happened to the Goodwins?\") to the family, using the fact that they were English to challenge the White Star Line's implication that such high numbers of third-class passengers perished because they could not understand the English language.\n\nThe body of a fair-haired toddler was the fourth pulled from the ocean by the recovery ship CS \"Mackay-Bennett\", on 17 April 1912. The description read:\n\nThe sailors aboard the \"Mackay-Bennett\", who were very shocked by the discovery of the unknown boy's body, paid for a monument, and he was buried on 4 May 1912 with a copper pendant placed in his coffin by recovery sailors that read \"Our Babe\". Before 2002 (when he was first, though mistakenly, identified through DNA testing), he was known simply as \"The Unknown Child\". His body, identified as that of a child around two years old, was initially believed to be that of either a two-year-old Swedish boy, Gösta Pålsson; or a two-year-old Irish boy, Eugene Rice, two other fair-haired toddlers who perished in the sinking.\nThe American PBS television series \"Secrets of the Dead\" initially identified the body as Eino Viljami Panula, a 13-month-old Finnish baby, based on DNA testing of three teeth and a small, weathered bone. However, with improved DNA testing available in 2007, Canadian researchers at Lakehead University in Thunder Bay tested the child's HVS1, a type of mitochondrial DNA molecule, and it did not match the Panula family. DNA extracted from the exhumed remains and DNA provided by a surviving maternal relative helped positively match the remains to Sidney, and the re-identification was announced on 30 July 2007.\n\nAlthough the bodies of two other children, both older boys, were recovered, it was Sidney who came to be a symbol of all the children lost in the sinking. He is buried in Fairview Cemetery, Halifax, Nova Scotia, and a marker was recently added to the memorial with his name and dates of birth and death. A pair of his shoes were donated to Halifax's Maritime Museum of the Atlantic in 2002 by the descendants of a Halifax police officer who guarded the bodies and clothing of \"Titanic\" victims.\n\n"}
{"id": "46803936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46803936", "title": "Susan Schneider", "text": "Susan Schneider\n\nSusan Schneider is an American philosopher and cognitive scientist. She is a Distinguished Scholar at the U.S. Library of Congress, a professor at The University of Connecticut, a faculty member in the Ethics and Technology Group at the Yale Interdisciplinary Center for Bioethics, and a visiting member of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton. She is also a recipient of the National Endowment for the Humanities Public Scholar Award.\n\nSchneider contends that the most intelligent alien beings we encounter will be \"postbiological in nature\", being forms of artificial intelligence, that they would be superintelligent, and that we can predict the shape of some of these superintelligences would be like. Her reason for the claim that the most intelligent aliens will be \"postbiological\" is called the \"short window observation.” This holds that by the time any society learns to transmit radio signals, they're likely just a few hundred years from upgrading their own biology.\n\nSchneider defends a view of the nature of the mental symbols (where such are the basic vocabulary items in the language of thought). She then used this conception of symbols, together with certain work on the nature of meaning, to construct a theory of the nature of concepts. The basic theory of concepts is intended to be ecumenical, having a version that applying in the case of connectionism, as well as versions that apply to both the prototype theory and definitions view of concepts.\n\nDiscussions of Schneider's work have appeared in \"The New York Times, Wired Magazine, Smithsonian, Big Think, \"3 Quarks Daily\", \"Discover Magazine\", \"Science Magazine\", Motherboard, Slate, Popular Mechanics\", and more.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1069944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1069944", "title": "Tales from the Crypt (film)", "text": "Tales from the Crypt (film)\n\nTales from the Crypt is a 1972 British horror film directed by Freddie Francis. It is an anthology film consisting of five separate segments, based on stories from EC Comics. It was produced by Amicus Productions and filmed at Shepperton Studios, and is one of several Amicus horror anthologies made during the 1970s.\n\nIn the film, five strangers (Joan Collins, Ian Hendry, Robin Phillips, Richard Greene and Nigel Patrick) encounter the mysterious Crypt Keeper (Ralph Richardson) in a crypt, and he tells each in turn the manner of their death.\n\nFive strangers go with a tourist group to view old catacombs. Separated from the main group, they find themselves in a room with the mysterious Crypt Keeper (Ralph Richardson), who details how each of the strangers may die.\n\n\nJoanne Clayton (Joan Collins) kills her husband (Martin Boddey) on Christmas Eve. She prepares to hide his body, but hears a radio announcement stating that a homicidal maniac (Oliver MacGreevy) is on the loose. She sees the killer (who is dressed in a Santa Claus costume) outside her house, but cannot call the police without exposing her own crimes.\n\nAfter cleaning up her crime, Joanne finally attempts to call the police. However, her young daughter (Chloe Franks) - believing the maniac to be Santa - unlocks the door and lets him into the house, whereupon he starts to strangle Joanne to death.\n\n\nCarl Maitland (Ian Hendry) abandons his family to be with Susan Blake (Angela Grant). After they drive off together, they are involved in a car accident. He wakes up in the wrecked car and attempts to hitch-hike home, but everyone he meets reacts with horror upon seeing him. Arriving at his house, he sees his wife (Susan Denny) with another man.\n\nHe knocks on the door, but she screams and slams the door. He then goes to see Susan to find out that she is blind from the accident. She says that Carl died two years ago in the crash. Glancing at a reflective tabletop, he sees he has the face of a rotted, hideous corpse and screams in horror. Carl then wakes up and finds out that it was a dream, but the moment he does, the crash occurs as previously seen.\n\n\nEdward Elliott (David Markham) and his son James (Robin Phillips) are a snobbish pair who resent their neighbour, dustman Arthur Grimsdyke (Peter Cushing), who owns a number of dogs and entertains children in his house; James, in particular, strongly detests the old man. To get rid of what they see as a blight on the neighbourhood, they push Grimsdyke into a frenzy by conducting a smear campaign against him, first resulting in the removal of his beloved dogs (one of them returns to him), then persuading a member of the council to have him removed from his job, and later exploiting parents' paranoid fears about child molestation.\n\nOn Valentine's Day, James sends Grimsdyke a number of poison-pen Valentines, supposedly from the neighbours, driving the old man to suicide. One year later, Grimsdyke comes back from the dead and takes revenge on James. The following morning, Edward finds his son dead with a note that said, \"HAPPY VALENTINE'S DAY--YOU WERE MEAN AND CRUEL-RIGHT FROM THE START-NOW YOU REALLY HAVE NO--!\"Edward opens up the folded end of the note and realizes that the final word of that note is \"HEART,\" represented by James's heart, which has been torn from his body while still beating.\n\n\nIneffective businessman Ralph Jason (Richard Greene) is close to financial ruin. His wife Enid (Barbara Murray) discovers a Chinese figurine that says it will grant three wishes to whoever possesses it; Enid decides to wish for a fortune; surprisingly, it comes true. However, Ralph is killed, seemingly in a car crash, on the way to his lawyer's office to collect it. The lawyer (Roy Dotrice) then advises Enid she will inherit a fortune from her deceased husband's life insurance plan. She uses her second wish to bring him back to the way he was just before the accident, but learns that his death was due to a heart attack immediately before the crash (caused by fright when he sees the figure of \"death\" following him on a motorcycle).\n\nAs she uses her final wish to bring him back alive and to live forever, she discovers too late that he was embalmed. She tries to kill him to end his pain but because she wished him to live forever, he cannot be killed. She has now trapped him in eternal pain.\n\n\nMajor William Rogers (Nigel Patrick), the mean new director of a home for the blind made up mostly of elderly and middle-aged men, makes drastic financial cuts, reducing heat and rationing food for the residents while he lives in luxury with his German Shepherd, Shane. When Rogers ignores the pleas of resident George Carter (Patrick Magee) for help, another resident dies from the cold and a stone-faced Carter leads the others in exacting revenge. Carter and his group subdue the staff, then lock Rogers and Shane in separate rooms in the basement as they construct a small maze of narrow corridors between the two rooms. Rogers and Shane are starved, leading to the dog becoming ravenous.\n\nAfter two days, Rogers' door is unlocked and he must find his way through with the lights off. He yells out in pain as Carter turns the lights on, discovering one corridor is lined with razor blades. Rogers makes it past, but finds Shane being let out from the room in front of him. He flees back towards the razors, but Carter turns the lights off and Rogers is heard screaming as the hungry dog catches up with him.\n\nAfter completing the final tale, the Crypt Keeper reveals that he was not warning them of what would happen, but telling them what has already happened: they have all \"died without repentance\". Clues to this twist can be spotted throughout the film, including Joanna wearing the brooch her husband had given her for Christmas just before she killed him. The door to Hell opens and Joanna, Carl, James, Ralph, and Major Rogers all enter. \"And now, who's next?\" asks the Crypt Keeper, turning to face the camera as he says \"Perhaps...YOU?\" The scene pulls away as the entrance to the Crypt Keeper's lair is in flames.\n\nWraparounds:\n\n...And All Through the House:\n\nReflection of Death:\n\nPoetic Justice:\n\nWish You Were Here:\n\nBlind Alleys:\n\nMilton Subotsky of Amicus Productions had long been a fan of EC Comics' \"Tales from the Crypt\" and eventually persuaded his partner Max Rosenberg to buy the rights. The copyright owner, William Gaines, insisted on script approval. The budget of £170,000 was higher than usual for an Amicus production, and was partly funded by American International Pictures. Peter Cushing was originally offered the part played by Richard Greene, but wanted to try something different and played the elderly Grimsdyke instead. Filming started on 13 September 1971 and finished in 1972.\n\nRotten Tomatoes, a review aggregator, reports that 88% of 16 surveyed critics gave the film a positive review. Roger Ebert gave the film a positive review. Allmovie's review of the film was generally favourable, writing, \"It has a certain magnetism about it that is hard to resist and which accounts for its enduring popularity. There's something about \"Crypt\" that makes even jaded viewers feel like they're kids sitting in their rooms late at night with the lights out, telling eerie tales with the aid of a flashlight.\" Vincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" wrote that the film lacks style and is too heavy-handed in its morality. Eric Henderson of \"Slant Magazine\" rated it 2.5/5 stars and wrote that \"the undercurrent of sternness is tempered by a truly bottomless roster of campy excess\". Chris Alexander of \"Fangoria\" wrote, \"[F]rom its first frames to its invasive final shot, this classic British creeper offers an unrelenting study in the art of the macabre.\" Anthony Arrigo of Dread Central wrote, \"The greatest strength in \"Tales\" comes not from the acting or directing – both of which are perfectly sound – but in the rich stories culled from the comics.\"\n\n\"Tales from the Crypt\" was released on DVD in the United Kingdom on 28 June 2010. It received its first Blu-ray release from Shock Records distribution in Australia on 2 November 2011.\n\nThe film, paired with another Amicus anthology, \"The Vault of Horror\", was released on a double-feature DVD on 11 September 2007. Shout Factory released the same double bill on Blu-ray on 2 December 2014.\n\n\n\"...And All Through the House\", \"Blind Alleys\" and \"Wish You Were Here\" were all somewhat remade into episodes for the \"Tales From the Crypt\" television show. \"Blind Alleys\" and \"Wish You Were Here\" were both changed.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53425323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53425323", "title": "The Ecologist Greens (Spain)", "text": "The Ecologist Greens (Spain)\n\nThe Ecologist Greens (; LVE) was a green political party in Spain, founded on 14 May 1986 as Green Future. In November 1987 it adopted its name of The Ecologist Greens, and from July 1991 the party was re-named as The Ecologists.\n"}
{"id": "255646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=255646", "title": "Walter J. Turner", "text": "Walter J. Turner\n\nWalter James Redfern Turner (13 October 1889 – 18 November 1946) was an Australian-born, English-domiciled writer and critic.\n\nBorn in South Melbourne, the son of a church musician – organist at St Paul's Cathedral – and warehouseman, Walter James Turner, and Alice May (née Watson), he was educated at Carlton State School, Scotch College and the Working Men's College. In 1907 he left for England to pursue a career in writing. There he met and befriended a number of literary intellectual figures, including Siegfried Sassoon, Virginia Woolf, Vita Sackville-West, and Lady Ottoline Morrell (the caricature of her in his book \"The Aesthetes\" ended their friendship). On 5 April 1918, in Chelsea, he married Delphine Marguerite Dubuis (died 1951). During the period from the First World War until the mid-1930s, he was known primarily as a poet. His 1916 \"Romance\" (\"Chimborazo, Cotopaxi...\") is probably the best remembered of his poems.\n\nW. B. Yeats had the highest praise for Turner's poetry, saying that it left him \"lost in admiration and astonishment\", and included some of it in his \"Oxford Book of Modern Poetry\" (while omitting several authors very much better known today for their verse, such as Wilfred Owen). But today, although Turner produced several novels and plays, as well as books of poems, his reputation rests on his musical biographies of Mozart, Beethoven and Berlioz. He was musically untrained, and in the words of the music critic Charles Reid, \"unhampered by any excess of technical knowledge\" to restrain his \"racy dogmatism.\" His \"Mozart\" in has been reprinted many times in the 70 years since it was first published. Some of his musical articles for the \"New Statesman\" and other journals were reprinted in \"Music and Life\", \"Facing the Music\", \"Musical Meanderings\", and \"Variations on the theme of Music\".\n\nTurner was a close friend of the pianist Artur Schnabel, about whom he frequently wrote, and with whom he frequently went hiking. He was a champion of Arturo Toscanini's conducting, which was for him a revelation in structure and expression. Siegfried Sassoon was another close friend of Turner, at least for a while. Turner, his wife, and Sassoon all cohabited a house on Tufton Street before Sassoon moved out in 1925. After this he fell out with Turner so badly that he made no mention whatsoever of him in his autobiography. During the Second World War, he edited a number of volumes about English culture. On 18 November 1946 he died at Hammersmith of a cerebral thrombosis.\n\n\n\n\n\"Walter Turner\" is also the name of a \"Solenostemon scutellarioides\" cultivar\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35600634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35600634", "title": "War on Gangs", "text": "War on Gangs\n\nIn the United States, the War on Gangs is a national movement to reduce gang-related activity, gang violence, and gang drug involvement on the local, state, and federal level. The War on Gangs is a multi-lateral approach, as federal agencies seek to disrupt the cycle of violence through intervention with state police and social workers.\n\nHistorically, gangs surfaced in the United States as early as the 1820s, mainly in New York. Gang activity was still considered criminal, however, when drugs were made illegal in 1912 with the International Opium Convention, gang activity and drug trafficking increased. The United States saw a major increase in gangs during the 1970s and 1980s, due to population growth and the demand for drugs. In 1991, it was estimated that there were 774,000 active gang members in the United States.\n\nAlthough many gang enforcement and policing tactics are carried out on a state-by-state basis, there are federal programs that aim to address the War on Gangs. National agencies, like the FBI, Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE), United States Marshals Service and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, have enacted programs that target gangs and gang related activities at the federal level.\n\nAt the federal level, the “Gangbusters Bill” of 2005, authorized increased federal spending to support federal, state and local law enforcement efforts against gang violence and shared intelligence and joint investigation \n\nThe criminalization of those associated with such terminology falls solely upon the state magistrate, while the policing involves a cohesive effort by local, state, and federal authorities. The policing tactics implemented and aimed to disrupt, deter, and eliminate criminal street gang activity naturally varies from city to city and state to state depending on the size of the problem as well as legislation. However, the advancement of counterinsurgency technologies and strategies proven effective in militarized zones such as Iraq and Afghanistan has provided authorities with new ways to fight the “war on gangs” in America. Statistical analysis in conjunction with advanced military software can now provide lawmaking authorities with the type of information that maps connections between gang activities, individual suspects, their social circles, family ties, and neighborhood connections. Authorities now have the tools to deconstruct the culture of ‘criminal street gangs’ by not only identifying their territorial boundaries but criminal industries, politics affiliates both in and out of the penitentiary, gang code and ethics, as well as illegal activities.\n\nBeyond the push for a national model providing a tactical framework outlining the methodologies behind the policing strategies of: prevention, intervention, intelligence, and suppression of criminal street gang activity, there is yet another arena where the “War on Gangs” continues to be fought, the political arena. Organized criminal street gangs such as 18th Street are boasting over 65,000 members and are believed to be operating in over 120 U.S. cities, 37 states, in addition to being considered an international crime organization linked to corrupt political insurgency. The Gangster Disciples is an organization with over 30,000 members in 35 states, employing themselves not only in drug trade but sponsoring political candidates, infiltrating police and private security agencies, and sponsoring protest marches. \n\nResearchers have attempted to understand the theoretical implications for participation in gang activity. Many of them looked into the reasons why people join gangs. The most common reasons examined among gang researchers include factors such as socioeconomic status, peer-to-peer and parent-to-child relationships, and discrimination. For example, in 2007, California State University-Northridge professor Kay Kei-Ho Pih and three other university professors conducted a study examining the purpose of capital (drug trafficking) among Latino and Taiwanese gangs. Their findings showed that the Latino gang members were raised in poor neighborhoods, wanted to make quick and easy money from selling drugs, and did not receive support from their parents about their academic endeavors which led them to drop out of school or complete a GED. The Taiwanese triad members, on the other hand, came from higher socioeconomic statuses, prioritized their education getting undergrad and graduate degrees, and sold drugs for recreation purposes. However, Hua-Lun Huang argues that gangs such as the Chinese Triads and the Mexican Mafia could also form because of extremist ideology and political connections to government outside of the United States. In 2002, the Routine activity theory was used by California State University, Long Beach criminal justice professor, John Z. Wang in his case study about eight bank robberies in Houston, Texas, which states that crimes committed by gangs are influenced by three factors: \n\nSeveral scholars suggest that alternative methods should be implemented in order to fight against the war on gangs including the development of community-based outreach programs instead of continuing to arrest potential gang members. For example, in 1998, Westminster Police Department director Douglas Kent and Claremont University professor, George Felkenes conducted a cross-sectional study on the cultural reasons why Vietnamese youth in Southern California join and participate in gang activity by interviewing over 250 Vietnamese youth and parents. Felkenes and Kent concluded their study with recommendations on how to initiate gang prevention programs: \n\nIn addition, University of Illinois-Urbana Champaign criminologist, Jun Sung Hong in his 2010 study about the Bronfenbrenner ecological approach to understanding Vietnamese gangs in America states that “after-school programs and activities for youths, such as sports or job training opportunities might enhance pro-social behavior and reduce motivation to join a gang.” He also argues that professional organizations and practitioners should also educate government officials about the correlation between social conditions and the negative outcomes \n"}
{"id": "324233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=324233", "title": "Wollemia", "text": "Wollemia\n\nWollemia is a genus of coniferous tree in the family Araucariaceae. \"Wollemia\" was only known through fossil records until the Australian species \"Wollemia nobilis\" was discovered in 1994 in a temperate rainforest wilderness area of the Wollemi National Park in New South Wales, in a remote series of narrow, steep-sided sandstone gorges 150 km north-west of Sydney. The genus is named for the National Park.\n\nIn both botanical and popular literature the tree has been almost universally referred to as the Wollemi pine, although it is not a true pine (genus \"Pinus\") nor a member of the pine family (Pinaceae), but, rather, is related to \"Agathis\" and \"Araucaria\" in the family Araucariaceae. The oldest fossil of the Wollemi tree has been dated to 200 million years ago.\n\nThe Wollemi pine is classified as critically endangered (CR) on the IUCN's Red List, and is legally protected in Australia. A Recovery Plan has been drawn up, outlining strategies for the management of this fragile population; the overall objective is to ensure that this species remains viable in the long term.\n\n\"Wollemia nobilis\" is an evergreen tree reaching tall. The bark is very distinctive, dark brown and knobbly, quoted as resembling Coco Pops breakfast cereal. The tree coppices readily, and most specimens are multiple-trunked or appear as clumps of trunks thought to derive from old coppice growth, with some consisting of up to 100 stems of differing sizes. The branching is unusual in that nearly all the side branches never have further branching. After a few years, each branch either terminates in a cone (either male or female) or ceases growth. After this, or when the cone becomes mature, the branch dies. New branches then arise from dormant buds on the main trunk. Rarely, a side branch will turn erect and develop into a secondary trunk, which then bears a new set of side branches.\n\nThe leaves are flat linear, 3–8 cm long and 2–5 mm broad. They are arranged spirally on the shoot but twisted at the base to appear in two or four flattened ranks. As the leaves mature, they develop from bright lime-green to a more yellowish-green. The seed cones are green, 6–12 cm long and 5–10 cm in diameter, and mature about 18–20 months after wind pollination. They disintegrate at maturity to release the seeds which are small and brown, thin and papery with a wing around the edge to aid wind-dispersal. The male (pollen) cones are slender conic, 5–11 cm long and 1–2 cm broad and reddish-brown in colour and are lower on the tree than the seed cones. Seedlings appear to be slow-growing and mature trees are extremely long-lived; some of the older individuals today are estimated to be between 500 and 1,000 years old.\n\nThe discovery, on or about 10 September 1994, by David Noble, Michael Casteleyn and Tony Zimmerman, only occurred because the group had been systematically exploring the area looking for new canyons. Noble had good botanical knowledge, and quickly recognised the trees as unusual because of the unique bark and worthy of further investigation. Dave took specimens to work for identification, expecting someone to be able to identify the plants. National Parks then went under a veil of secrecy, with the discoverers not learning the full magnitude of their discovery for about six months. National Parks came close to damaging the stand when a helicopter beeing used to collect cones inadvertently pruned one the pines with it rotor. \n\nThe first illustrations of the Wollemi Pine were done by David Mackay, a botanical artist and scientific illustrator who was working at the Royal Botanic Gardens in Sydney when the species was discovered.\n\nFurther study would be needed to establish its relationship to other conifers. The initial suspicion was that it had certain characteristics of the 200-million-year-old family Araucariaceae, but was not similar to any living species in the family. Comparison with living and fossilised Araucariaceae proved that it was a member of that family, and it has been placed into a new genus with \"Agathis\" and \"Araucaria\".\n\nFossils closely resembling \"Wollemia\" that are thought to be related to it are widespread in Australia, New Zealand and Antarctica from Cretaceous era sediments, but \"Wollemia nobilis\" is the sole living member of its genus. These trees remained common throughout eastern Australia until around 40 million years ago but then gradually declined in range and abundance. Before the relict population was discovered in Wollemi National Park, the most recent known fossils of the genus date from approximately 2 million years ago in Tasmania. It is thus described as a living fossil or, alternatively, a Lazarus taxon.\n\nFewer than a hundred trees are known to be growing wild, in three localities not far apart. It is very difficult to count individuals, as most trees are multistemmed and may have a connected root system. Genetic testing has revealed that all the specimens are genetically indistinguishable, suggesting that the species has been through a genetic bottleneck in which its population became so low (possibly just one or two individuals) that all genetic variability was lost.\n\nIn November 2005, wild-growing trees were found to be infected with \"Phytophthora cinnamomi\". New South Wales park rangers believe the virulent water mould was introduced by unauthorised visitors to the site, whose location is still undisclosed to the public.\n\nA propagation programme made Wollemi pine specimens available to botanical gardens, first in Australia in 2006 and subsequently throughout the world. It may prove to be a valuable tree for ornament, either planted in open ground or for tubs and planters. In Australia, potted native Wollemi pines have been promoted as a Christmas tree. It is also proving to be more adaptable and cold-hardy than its restricted temperate-subtropical, humid distribution would suggest, tolerating temperatures between , with reports, from Japan and the USA, that it can survive down to . A grove of Wollemi pines planted in Inverewe Garden, Scotland, believed to be the most northerly location of any successful planting, have survived temperatures of , recorded in January 2010. It also handles both full sun and full shade. Like many other Australian trees, \"Wollemia\" is susceptible to the pathogenic water mould \"Phytophthora cinnamomi\", so this may limit its potential as a timber tree.\n\nThe Royal Botanic Gardens in Sydney have published information on how to grow Wollemi Pines from seed which has been harvested from helicopters from the forest trees. The majority of seeds that fall from the cone are not viable so need to be sorted to retain the plump and dark ones. These can then be sown on top of seed raising mix and watered. Once the water has drained through the mix, the pot should be placed in a plastic bag and refrigerated for two weeks. After this, the pot should be removed from the plastic bag and placed somewhere warm but not very sunny until the seed germinates (remembering to keep them moist but not wet). This could take several months.\n\nThe genus \"Wollemia\" shares morphological characteristics with the genera \"Araucaria\" and \"Agathis\". \"Wollemia\" and \"Araucaria\" both have closely crowned sessile and amphistomatic leaves, and aristate bract scales, while \"Wollemia\" and \"Agathis\" both have fully fused bracts, ovuliferous scales, and winged seeds. Scrutiny of the fossil record likewise does not clarify \"Wollemia\"’s relationship to \"Araucaria\" or \"Agathis\", since the former has similarly disparate leaf characters in its adult and juvenile forms, and the latter has similar cone characters. Further, the recent description of several extinct genera within the Araucariaceae points to complex relationships within the family and a significant loss of diversity since the Cretaceous. An early study of the rbcL gene sequence places \"Wollemia\" in the basal position of the Araucariaceae and as the sister group to \"Agathis\" and \"Araucaria\". In contrast, another study of the rbcL sequence shows that \"Wollemia\" is the sister group to \"Agathis\" and \"Araucaria\" is basal. The different outgroup selection and genes used in previous studies are the reasons behind the discrepancy over the groupings of the three genera. Later genetic studies corroborate \"Wollemia\"'s placement in the Araucariaceae as sister to \"Agathis\" based on data from the 28s rRNA gene, a combination of rbcL and matK genes, and a comprehensive study encompassing nuclear ribosomal 18S and 26S rRNA, chloroplast 16S rRNA, rbcL, matK and rps4, and mitochondrial coxl and atp1 genes.\n\nFossils indicate that the lineage leading to modern \"Agathis\" and \"Wollemia\" evolved from the common ancestor with \"Araucaria\" in the Early Cretaceous in southern Gondwana within climates experiencing cool moist conditions and a strong photoperiod regime. The most recent common ancestor of \"Agathis\" and \"Wollemia\" has been proposed to be at least 110 million years old (Early Cretaceous) deduced from the reported oldest fossils of these genera. However, genetic evidence suggests that the divergence of \"Agathis\" and \"Wollemia\" occurred 61±15 Ma around the beginning of the Cenozoic rather than in the Early Cretaceous. In another recent molecular study, an age of only 18 Ma was inferred for the divergence of \"Agathis\" and \"Wollemia\". This also accords with recent revisions of the fossil record in New Zealand that reveal no examples of \"Agathis\" or \"Wollemia\"-like remains older than the Cenozoic. The relatively minor genetic and morphological diversity in extant species of \"Agathis\" compared to the variation in \"Araucaria\" is further evidence of the earlier divergence of \"Araucaria\".\n\nBelow is the phylogeny of the Araucariaceae based on the consensus from the most recent cladistic analysis of molecular data. It shows the relative positions of \"Wollemia\", \"Agathis\" and \"Araucaria\" within the division.\n\n"}
