{"id": "28790269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28790269", "title": "André Birotte Jr.", "text": "André Birotte Jr.\n\nAndré Birotte Jr. (born 1966) is a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Central District of California and previously served as United States Attorney for the Central District of California. On July 22, 2014, the United States Senate unanimously confirmed Birotte to serve as a district judge in Los Angeles after being nominated by President Barack Obama.\n\nBirotte was born in Newark, New Jersey, in 1966 to Haitian immigrants. Birotte graduated from Tufts University with a Bachelor of Science degree in psychology and received his Juris Doctor from Pepperdine University School of Law.\n\nAfter graduating from law school, Birotte was a deputy public defender in Los Angeles. In 1995, he became an Assistant United States Attorney. Four years later, he joined Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan where he represented individuals charged with white collar crime.\nBirotte was appointed to the United States Attorney's office by President Barack Obama and confirmed by the Senate in February 2010. He was sworn in on March 4, 2010. Judge Terry J. Hatter, Jr. administered the oath. Birotte was the first African-American United States Attorney for the Central District. He supervised an office of 275 prosecutors.\n\nBirotte was the United States Attorney investigating charges against former cyclist Lance Armstrong for defrauding of the government, drug trafficking, money laundering and conspiracy. He dismissed the case without comment on February 3, 2012. Armstrong reacted to the decision by stating \"I am gratified to learn that the U.S. Attorney’s Office is closing its investigation. It is the right decision and I commend them for reaching it.\" The federal investigation had been ongoing for two years prior to its dismissal by Birotte. On February 5, 2013, Birotte stated that Armstrong's subsequent admission that he took drugs was no reason to reopen the original investigation.\n\nOn April 3, 2014, President Obama nominated Birotte to serve as a United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Central District of California, to the seat vacated by Gary Allen Feess, who took senior status on March 13, 2014. He received a hearing before the United States Senate Judiciary Committee on May 20, 2014. On June 19, 2014 his nomination was reported out of committee by voice vote. On July 16, 2014, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid filed a motion to invoke cloture on Birotte nomination. The Senate voted for cloture on July 22, 2014 in a 56–43 vote. Later that same day the Senate voted 100–0 to confirm Birotte. He received his federal judicial commission on August 8, 2014. He was sworn in the same day.\n\nBirotte served as a judge pro tem for the Los Angeles Superior Court. He is a member of the Los Angeles County Bar Association's Judicial Appointments Committee and Criminal Justice Executive Committee. He has taught legal writing and advocacy at the University of Southern California Law School. Earlier in his career, he served as a deputy public defender in Los Angeles and as the inspector general of the Los Angeles Police Department. He served on the board of directors of the Langston Bar Association from 1992 to 2003.\n\nBirotte has a wife and three children.\n\n"}
{"id": "50388769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50388769", "title": "Animalier school", "text": "Animalier school\n\nAnimalier school or animalier movement was a roughly late 18th century to late 19th century movement and school of art, which took as its subject in various figurative forms the animal kingdom or Kingdom Animalia. The movement predominantly centered around Paris, France, and Italy, with some offshoots in England, Germany, and North America. \n\nSome examples of animalier artists and their subjects are George Stubbs and Jules Moigniez (paintings and sculpture of horses), Antoine-Louis Barye (sculpture of bulls and humans), and Rembrandt Bugatti (felines, human figures, and zoo animals).\n\n Animals as a visual motif were used in ancient art and in tribal art, in animal style art and objects but were not generally represented as figurative, anatomically correct, creatures. The Celtic-Germanic animal style with its \"combination of abstract and organic shapes, of formal discipline and imaginative freedom, became an important element ... in the art of the Dark Ages.\" During the Baroque period in France and England, a 1670 commissioned terracotta model for a sculpture of Louis XIV titled \"Equestrian Statue of Louis XIV\" by Gian Lorenzo Bernini was rejected on the grounds that it was not suitable to the dignity of the king.\n\nThe term animalier was first used by the French press and salon jurors, often as a derogatory term. The Paris salon thought animal subjects too common for fine art, but with the opening of the new Paris Jardin des Plantes zoo and the Ménagerie du Jardin des plantes, interest in animal art increased. The Dukes of Orleans, Luynes, Montpensier, and Nemours were soon to become Barye's patrons. In 1882 Edouard Manet created a portrait in pastel on canvas of the animalier artist Julien de La Rochenoire, which has been owned by the Getty Museum since 2014. The art of George Stubbs became a favorite of collector Paul Mellon, who donated many of Stubbs' paintings to the Yale Center for British Art.\n\nIt has been observed that \"many animal sculptures were modeled in plaster for exhibition and cast later in bronze editions. The size and variety of an edition depended on the popularity of the piece at exhibition, and many Barye, Mêne, and Fratin pieces were so popular that they were cast in very large editions.\"\nArtists of the animalier movement were referred to as \"les animaliers\". Important artists of the animalier movement included Antoine-Louis Barye (1796–1875), Rembrandt Bugatti (1884–1916), George Stubbs (1724–1806), Alfred Dedreux (1810–1860), Christopher Fratin (1801–1864), Alexandre Guionnet, Pierre-Jules Mêne (1810–1879). Rosa Bonheur (1822–1899), Isidore Bonheur (1827–1901), Anna Hyatt Huntington (1876–1973), Paul-Edouard Delabrierre (1829–1912), Alfred Dubucand (1828–1894), Jules Moigniez (1835–1894) and Émile-Coriolan Guillemin (1841–1907).\n\nMany beautiful replicas are made of animalier sculpture, which may be cast or molded in any size and of any material. The most desirable of these are exact in detail and made from the same material, such as cast iron, spelter, or cast bronze, as used in the artist's original sculpture. Most of the original animalier sculptors used the traditional lost wax process of casting prevalent at the time. Alexandre Guionnet was exceptional in that he worked in wood. Modern reproductions of the original sculptures frequently use patinated verdigris cast bronze or iron, or bonded marble resin (pulverized reconstituted marble combined with resin glue), as well as various other materials and techniques, such as a composite of Capiz placuna placenta oyster shells, also known as window oyster shells, which come primarily from the Philippines (where they are known as \"kapiz\").\n"}
{"id": "3306969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3306969", "title": "Asmat people", "text": "Asmat people\n\nThe Asmat are an ethnic group of New Guinea, residing in the Papua province of Indonesia. The Asmat inhabit a region on the island's southwestern coast bordering the Arafura Sea, with lands totaling approximately 18,000 km² (7,336 mi²) and consisting of mangrove, tidal swamp, freshwater swamp, and lowland rainforest.\n\nThe land of Asmat is located both within and adjacent to Lorentz National Park and World Heritage Site, the largest protected area in the Asia-Pacific region. The total Asmat population is estimated to be around 70,000 as of 2004. The term \"Asmat\" is used to refer both to the people and the region they inhabit.\n\nThe Asmat have one of the most well-known woodcarving traditions in the Pacific, and their art is sought by collectors worldwide.\n\nThe natural environment has been a major factor affecting the Asmat, as their culture and way of life are heavily dependent on the rich natural resources found in their forests, rivers, and seas. The Asmat mainly subsist on starch from the sago palm (\"Metroxylon sagu\"), supplemented by grubs of the sago beetle (\"Rhynchophorus ferrugineus\"), crustaceans, fish, forest game, and other items gathered from their forests and waters.\n\nMaterials for canoes, dwellings, and woodcarvings are also all gathered locally, and thus their culture and biodiversity are intertwined. Due to the daily flooding which occurs in many parts of their land, Asmat dwellings have typically been built two or more meters above the ground, raised on wooden posts. In some inland regions, the Asmat have lived in tree houses, sometimes as high as 25 meters from the ground. The Asmat have traditionally placed great emphasis on the veneration of ancestors, particularly those who were accomplished warriors.\nAsmat art consists of elaborate stylized wood carvings such as the bisj pole and is designed to honour ancestors. Many Asmat artifacts have been collected by the world's museums, among the most notable of which are those found in the Michael C. Rockefeller Collection at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City and the Tropenmuseum in Amsterdam. Asmat art is widely collected in major Western museums despite the difficulty in visiting the remote region to collect work; the \"exceptionally expressive\" art \"caused a sensation in art-collecting circles\" which led to large-scale collecting expeditions in the post-WWII era, according to art scholar and ethnology Dirk A.M. Smidt. One of the most comprehensive collections of Asmat Art can be found in the American Museum of Asmat Art at the University of St. Thomas in St. Paul, Minnesota.\n\nTraditionally, many Asmat men practiced polygyny by marrying more than one woman. In many cases, men were expected to marry a male relative's wife when that relative dies, lest the widow and orphans be left without a source of protection or economic support. Schneebaum reported that many Asmat men had long-term ritual sexual/friendship relationships (\"mbai\") with other men, although the prevalence of this practice has been disputed by others. In the \"mbai\" system, male partners were also known to share their wives in a practice called \"papitsj\". It is probable that missionary influence in the last several decades has reduced the occurrence of both \"mbai\" and \"papitsj\".\n\nHeadhunting raids were an important element of Asmat culture until missionaries suppressed the practice, which, according to some accounts, persisted into the 1990s. The death of an adult, even by disease, was believed to be caused by an enemy, and relatives sought to take a head in an endless cycle of revenge and propitiation of ancestors. Heads were thought necessary for the rituals in which boys were initiated into manhood. Cannibalism was a subsidiary feature of the rituals that followed the taking of heads.,\n\nLinguistic classification of the native language(s) of the Asmat people is somewhat problematic, but is generally characterized as being a group of closely related languages or dialects (most mutually intelligible to some degree), known as the Asmat family, which is a sub-family of the Trans–New Guinea language phylum. However, some ethnic groups who speak languages in the Asmat language family, such as the Kamoro and Sempan peoples who live adjacent to the Asmat, are ethnically distinct from Asmat.\n\nAsmat may be thought of as an umbrella term for twelve different ethnic sub-groups with shared linguistic and cultural affinities and sense of shared identity. These twelve Asmat groups include Joirat, Emari Ducur, Bismam, Becembub, Simai, Kenekap, Unir Siran, Unir Epmak, Safan, Aramatak, Bras, and Yupmakcain. Further complicating the issue, these groups speak approximately five dialects (Casuarina Coast Asmat, Yaosakor Asmat, Central Asmat, North Asmat, Citak). However, at some important level these groups share a sense of identity and would likely refer to themselves as \"Asmat\".\n\nThe Asmat's first encounter with European people was with the Dutch, in 1623. However, until the 1950s, their remote and harsh location almost entirely isolated the Asmat from other peoples. It was not until the mid-20th century that they came into regular contact with outsiders. The Asmat were documented headhunters and cannibals, and as a consequence were left largely undisturbed until the mid-20th century.\n\nThe first apparent sighting of the Asmat people by explorers was from the deck of a ship led by a Dutch trader, Jan Carstensz in the year 1623. Captain James Cook and his crew were the first to actually land in Asmat on September 3, 1770 (near what is now the village of Pirimapun). According to the journals of Captain Cook, a small party from the HM Bark Endeavour encountered a group of Asmat warriors; sensing a threat, the explorers quickly retreated.\n\nIn 1826, another Dutch explorer, Kolff, anchored in approximately the same area as that visited by Cook. When the Asmat warriors again frightened the visitors with loud noises and bursts of white powder, Kolff's crew also rapidly withdrew. The Dutch, who gained sovereignty over the western half of the island in 1793, did not begin exploring the region until the early 1900s, when they established a government post in Merauke in the southeast corner of the territory.\n\nFrom there, several exploratory excursions with the goal of reaching the central mountain range passed through the Asmat area and gathered small numbers of zoological specimens and artifacts. These artifacts were taken to Europe where they generated much interest, and probably influenced modernist and surrealist Western artists such as Henri Matisse, Marc Chagall and Pablo Picasso.\n\nThe first colonial post was established in the Asmat area in Agats in 1938. This small outpost was closed in 1942 due to the onset of World War II. After the war, Father G. Zegwaard, a Dutch Missionary, began patrols into Asmat from the Mimika area to the west. In 1953, Zegwaard re-established the post in Agats, which was to become the government headquarters and the base for Roman Catholic missionaries.\n\nIt was not until Catholic missionaries established the post in 1953 that significant interaction with the Asmat people began. Catholic missionaries, many with degrees in anthropology, were partially successful in persuading some of the Asmat to stop cannibalism and headhunting, while encouraging the continuation of other important cultural cycles and festivals such as shield and bisj ceremonies, which were incorporated into an adapted Catholic liturgy.\n\nAsmat was the launching point for an arduous joint French-Dutch expedition from the south to north coast of New Guinea in 1958 and 1959, which was documented by the team and resulted in a book and documentary film, \"The Sky Above, The Mud Below\", which won an Academy Award in 1962.\n\nIn November 1961, the 23-year-old Michael Rockefeller, son of the then-Governor of New York Nelson Rockefeller and member of one of the wealthiest families in the United States, disappeared in Asmat when his boat overturned while on an art collecting expedition. His disappearance, followed by an intensive and ultimately unsuccessful search by the Dutch authorities, was the source of much speculation as to Mr. Rockefeller's fate. Recently, author Carl Hoffman in his book \"Savage Harvest,\" presented evidence that Rockefeller was killed and eaten by people from Otsjanep village.\n\nIn 1962, the Indonesian government took over administration of western New Guinea. After a short period under the new Indonesian administration from 1964 to 1968 in which Asmat cultural ceremonies were officially discouraged, local Bishop Alphonse August Sowada was instrumental in facilitating the revitalization of woodcarving and other festivals, which remain strong today. The church, along with Tobias Schneebaum and Ursula Konrad, established the Asmat Museum of Culture and Progress (AMCP) in the local town of Agats in 1973, to maintain local pride in Asmat cultural traditions. Each year in early October, the church sponsors a woodcarving competition and auction to recognize outstanding carvers.\n\nEven today, the Asmat are relatively isolated and their most important cultural traditions are still strong, though their interaction with the outside world has been increasing over the last decades. Many Asmat have received higher education in other parts of Indonesia and some in Europe. The Asmat seek to find ways to incorporate new technology and beneficial services such as health, communications, and education, while preserving their cultural traditions.\n\nThe biodiversity of their area has been under some pressure from outside logging and fishing, although this has faced significant and not unsuccessful resistance. In the year 2000, the Asmat formed Lembaga Musyawarah Adat Asmat (LMAA), a civil society organization that represents and articulates their interests and aspirations.\n\nLMAA has been working with Indo-Pacific Conservation Alliance since 1999, and has established separate traditional sub-councils, or Forum Adat Rumpun (FAR) to implement joint activities. In 2004, the Asmat region became a separate governmental administrative unit or Kabupaten, and elected Mr. Yufen Biakai, former director of the AMCP and current Chairman of LMAA, as its Bupati (head of local government).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35721592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35721592", "title": "Atlantid race", "text": "Atlantid race\n\nThe Atlantid race or North-Atlantid is a term historically used as one of the sub-races of the Caucasoid race. The term was popular in the early 20th century.\n\nIn his \"Die Mediterranen in Wales\" (1935), Egon Freiherr von Eickstedt coined the term \"Atlantid\" to denote a phenotype he stated was common in the British Isles. According to Bertil Lundman, it is synonymous with Joseph Deniker's earlier postulated \"North-Occidental\" or \"North-Western\" race, and also Czekanowski's \"Northern-Western\" subracial taxonomy. In the 1940s Lundman adopted the term \"North-Atlantid\" to cover these earlier terminologies, and further popularised it in \"The Races and Peoples of Europe\" (1977).\n\nThe Atlantid or North-Atlantid, as described by Eickstedt and Lundman, is recognised as having a pigmentation between the Nordic and Atlanto-Mediterranid stock of the Mediterranean. While the pigmentation of the eyes is light, the hair in contrast is dark brown. The Atlantid is essentially a \"Nordic-Mediterranean\" blend, a term appearing in the literature of Earnest Hooton, but can differ in its exact gradient of pigmentation. Although usually recognised as intermediate between Nordic and Mediterranean, Deniker discussed what he saw occasionally as stronger Nordic or Mediterranean gradients.\n\nLundman notes that the North-Atlantid phenotype is mainly found across British Isles, but also in some other North Sea coastal areas. There are two theories on the origin of the Atlantid phenotype, according to Lundman's theory the North-Atlantid came about through only a partial northern depigmentation:\n\n"}
{"id": "4087950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4087950", "title": "Atoni", "text": "Atoni\n\nThe Atoni (also known as the Atoin Meto or Dawan) people are an ethnic group on Timor, in Indonesian West Timor and the East Timorese enclave of Oecussi-Ambeno. They number around 844,030. Their language is Uab Meto.\n\nThe Atoni live in villages consisting of 50 to 60 people, each village is surrounded with stone fence or shrubs, with fields and cattle cages on the periphery. The houses usually form a circular cluster, or following the road after the introduction of a road.\n\nAccording to ethnographer Clarke Cunningham, their culture is notable for its spatial symbolism, associated with a gender dichotomy. Male-female principle is important, as with the duality of sun-earth, light-dark, open-close, dry season-wet season, outer-inner, central-periphery, secular-sacral, right-left, and so on. This in turn affects the spatial configuration of an Atoni house.\n\nThe right side of the house (facing the door) is always male, whereas the left is female. The center of the house (and the attic) is male, while the periphery of the house is female. The interior of the house is female, the terrace is male. The house is female and the yard is male. This principle conceived the Atoni house as a microcosmos. The house also expresses social order.\n\nA more elaborate house is called \"Ume Atoni\" (\"Atoni\" means \"male\"). The house is dominantly male in quality. The Atoni entertains their guest in a communal house called \"Lopo\". A \"Lopo\" is always located in front of a house and is oriented to the road.\n\nFurthermore, each cardinal direction is associated with a gender, as are different parts of a house. Sex and gender do not always line up, as an important lord is called a \"female-man,\" and is accordingly always a man, but performs stereotypically female duties.\n\nA species of skink, \"Eremiascincus antoniorum\", which is endemic to Timor, is named in honor of the Antoni people.\n\n"}
{"id": "36850500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36850500", "title": "Bakoko people", "text": "Bakoko people\n\nThe Bakoko, also known as the Basoo, are an ethnic group in Cameroon. According to 2010 figures there are around 111,000 of them, mostly concentrated in the Littoral Region in the southwest of the country. They speak the Bakoko language, which is a Bantu language, and are related to the Bassa people. These people put up a resistance to the Germans when they invaded in 1889.\n"}
{"id": "11982053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11982053", "title": "Brazilians", "text": "Brazilians\n\nBrazilians (\"brasileiros\" in Portuguese, ) are citizens of Brazil. A Brazilian can also be a person born abroad to a Brazilian parent or legal guardian as well as a persons who acquired Brazilian citizenship. Brazil is a multiethnic society, which means that it is home to people of many different ethnic origins. As a result, majority of Brazilians do not equate their nationality with their ethnicity, usually embracing and espousing both simultaneously.\n\nIn the period after the colonization of the Brazilian territory by Portugal, during much of the XVI century, the word \"Brazilian\" was given to the Portuguese merchants of Brazilwood, designating exclusively the name of such profession, since the inhabitants of the land were, in most of them, indigenous or Portuguese born in Portugal, or in the territory now called Brazil. However, long before the independence of Brazil, in 1822, both in Brazil and in Portugal, it was already common to attribute the Brazilian gentile to a person, usually of clear Portuguese descent, resident or whose family resided in the State of Brazil (1530-1815), belonging to the Portuguese Empire. During the lifetime of the United Kingdom of Portugal, Brazil and the Algarves (1815-1822), however, there was confusion about the nomenclature.\n\nAccording to the Constitution of Brazil, a Brazilian citizen is:\n\n\nAccording to the Constitution, all people who hold Brazilian citizenship are equal, regardless of race, ethnicity, gender or religion.\n\nA foreigner can apply for Brazilian citizenship after living for four uninterrupted years in Brazil and being able to speak Portuguese. A native person from an official Portuguese language country (Portugal, Angola, Mozambique, Cape Verde, São Tomé and Príncipe, Guinea Bissau and East Timor) can request the Brazilian nationality after only 1 uninterrupted year living in Brazil. A foreign born person who holds Brazilian citizenship has exactly the same rights and duties of the Brazilian citizen by birth, but cannot occupy some special public positions such as the Presidency of the Republic, Vice-presidency of the Republic, Minister (Secretary) of Defense, Presidency (Speaker) of the Senate, Presidency (Speaker) of the House of Representatives, Officer of the Armed Forces and Diplomat.\n\nBrazilians are mostly descendants of Portuguese settlers, post-colonial immigrant groups, Enslaved Africans and Brazil's indigenous peoples. Along with other immigrants of who arrived in Brazil, from the 1820s well into the 1970s, most of the settlers were Portuguese, Italians, Spaniards, Arabs and Germans, with significantly large numbers of Japanese, Armenians, Gypsies, Greeks, Poles, Ukrainians and Levantine Arabs.\n\nThe three principal groups were Native Brazilians, European colonizers and African labor.\n\nPortugal remained the only significant, but not an exclusive source of European immigration to Brazil until the early 19th century.\n\nIt is estimated that more than 20,000 Dutch entered Brazil, however, both groups had been forced out of the country after the rule's end. The remaining families mostly fled to remote parts of the interior of Northeastern Brazil (mainly in the states of Pernambuco, but also Paraíba, Rio Grande do Norte, Ceará and others) or changed their names to Portuguese ones. The proven excess of Y-chromosomes of the haplogroup 2 in northeasterners probably results from the high miscegenation of Dutch settlers with the local population.\n\nThe Jews who mostly left Brazil took off to what was then named New Amsterdam, today New York City, and founded the oldest Jewish congregation in the US, the Congregation Shearith Israel. The ones who stayed, converted into Christianity and were then known as New Christians or Marranos, who sometimes practiced Crypto-Judaism. Even if the Jewish population under Dutch Brazil not surpassed a few thousand individuals, a considerably higher number of New Christians, in the past simply absorbed as Portuguese colonizers, arrived in Colonial Brazil - especially in the first centuries after 1500. They entered Brazil fleeing from the Inquisition or were deported by the Kingdom of Portugal and also Spain, latter being known as Degredados, someone who was sentenced or forced to exile. This also included Romani People from the Iberian Peninsula, what partially explains the curiously high numbers for a western country. Brazil has the second largest Gypsy population in the Americas after the US, having also received Roma people from Central and Eastern Europe, as well as the Baltic countries during the 20th century.\n\n\nIn 1808, the Portuguese court moved to Brazil, bringing thousands of Portuguese again and afterwards opened its seaports to other nations starting from 1820. This caused the biggest wave of immigration which the country has seen until then.\n\nIn this period, people from all over the world officially entered Brazil, the vast majority of them Europeans.\n\nBetween 1820 and the 1950s, Brazil received around 5,686,133 European immigrants, including a thriving Jewish population. In addition, 950,000 Asians settled in Brazil throughout the 20th century, including considerable numbers of Middle Easterners or Christian Levantine Arabs and 270,000 Japanese, the highest figure among East Asians.\n\n1) Back then, nearly 70 % of those immigrants originated from Southern Europe.\n\n\nPortuguese people have been present since the discovery of the country, and therefore it is difficult to estimate a more accurate number of descendants. Millions of White Brazilians descend from recent Portuguese immigration from between the 1870s and 1975. In addition, many multiracial Brazilians partially descend from Portuguese people, caused by the high intermarriage rates. Most of them came from the historical provinces of Minho, Trás-os-Montes, Beira, Estremadura (North and Central Portugal). Northeastern Brazil traditionally received the first waves of immigrants, but during the Great Immigration, the Southeast received the biggest influx. São Paulo (state) received the most, followed by Rio de Janeiro (city), which is considered the largest Portuguese city outside of Lisbon. The second former capital of Brazil once also was the capital of Portugal, the only European capital outside of Europe. The accent in the city of Rio de Janeiro subsequently reminds the 19th century innovations that took place in the European variety of the language, while the prosody of the rest of the country, besides some local varieties, has rather conservative phonetics rooted in the 1600s. Other states with significant numbers were Minas Gerais, Pará, Rio Grande do Sul, Pernambuco and Bahia. Nowadays, they naturally live throughout Brazil and compose the majority of White and also Multiracial Brazilians in many states.\n\n\nToday, millions of Italian-Brazilians make Brazil their home, as they usually brought the whole family and had high birth rates. Regarding the total numbers, this probably represents the biggest Italian diaspora outside of Italy. Contrary to other countries, more than half of the Italians immigrated from the North, mostly composed by people from Veneto and Lombardy, followed by people from Central Italy. The state of São Paulo had the strongest and a more diverse influx, with many also coming from South Italy, especially to the eponymic capital. Italians mostly went to São Paulo (state), which received half of the overall immigrants. The others mainly went to the states of southern Brazil, where they also composed the biggest European immigrant group. Other notable influxes occurred in two other southeastern states, here Minas Gerais and Espírito Santo and the Central-West region, mainly to Mato Grosso do Sul and Goiás. Comparatively small numbers went to Pernambuco and Bahia, both in the Northeast. Nowadays the descendants mostly live in mentioned areas, but the sheer amount and internal migrations made the Italilan diaspora spread out and nowadays they are scattered all over Brazil.\n\n\nSeveral million Brazilians have Spanish ancestry. Most Spaniards settled in the past century, where they chiefly headed to São Paulo, then Rio de Janeiro and Minas Gerais. Most notably from Andalusia (South), others from the provinces of Galicia, Castile and León and Catalonia (North and East Spain) followed. Galicians were also present throughout Colonial Brazil, as the province shares borders and linguistic ties with Portugal, and once was part of the country. Spanish Brazilians in the other states mainly have origins in Galicia, which arrived in earlier occasions. Many of them went to the first capital Salvador and its state Bahia, but also Pernambuco (Northeast), Pará (North), Espírito Santo (Southeast), and Rio Grande do Sul (South).\n\nNote: Brazil is also home to other Southern European populations, mainly Greeks (around 150,000 descendants), but they are by far the smallest groups with origins in South Europe.\n\n2) The remaining 30 % were composed of Other Europeans, Asians (Western and Eastern Asia), Africans (many White Africans, Jews, Berbers and others) and Americans (South and North Americans).\n\n\n- Western Europeans were very present, as around 240,000 Germans settled, 198,000 Austrian and 52,000 Swiss; Luxembourgers and Volga Germans were also documented, but in comparatively low numbers. German speaking nationalities were the fourth largest European immigration group and today German is the second most spoken mother tongue in the country. In addition, 150,000 French immigrants entered Brazilian ports, where Belgian and Dutch (not to be confused with Dutch Brazil) settlers also were listed.\n\n- Eastern Europeans were relatively numerous, with more than 350,000 listed immigrants. This included 154,000 Poles, around 40,000 Ukrainians and smaller numbers of Russians. These immigrants were searching for better opportunities - a few thousand Belarusians were also among them. Slavs from other regions migrated as well, here mainly South Slavs like Bulgarians and Croats, but also Czechs and Slovaks, with moderate numbers of Slovenes and others. Hungarians and Romanians were among the non-Slavic Eastern Europeans and were the biggest groups after the Poles, Russians and Ukrainians.\n\n- Northern Europeans were the least numerous, but also present. More than 78,000 Britons, mainly under English passports, and Scots entered the country. They dispersed to different regions: a few Irish people went to already urbanized regions. Scandinavian people, mainly Swedes and Norwegians, were both listed and sent over 40,000 immigrants each, as well as around 17,000 Danes. 3,400 Estonians and a rather small number of Finns were also present. Even smaller and therefore often forgotten, an influx from Icelanders and Faroese was recorded, but they still left few thousand descendants. The Baltic region was also entirely present, where Lithuanians composed the most numerous group, with over 50,000 entrances, followed by a much smaller number of Latvians.\n\n- European Jews of Ashkenazi origin, more precisely around 48,000 people from several countries, chose Brazil as their destination. Ashkenazi Jews were first documented during Imperial times, when the liberal second emperor of Brazil welcomed a few thousands of families facing persecution in Europe during the 1870s and 1880s. Two heavier influxes took place during the 20th century. The earliest right after the Great War and the second inrush between the 1930s and 1950s.\nBrazil has also seen an influx from North African Jews of Sephardic origin coming from mainly Morocco and Egypt, which were counted extra.\n\n\n- Western Asians, more specifically from the Levant region, equally arrived in large numbers, chiefly Lebanese and Syrians, both surpassing 200,000 entrances throughout the 20th century, with mentionable numbers of Armenian, Georgian and some Iranian immigrants from the Caucasus region.\n\n- East Asians, the majority composed of Japanese immigrants, also arrived in formidable numbers, where the first ship landed in 1908, surpassing 250,000 immigrants. But Chinese and Koreans also have traditions of immigrating to Brazil, especially after the 1950s, with around 200,000 and 100,000 immigrants respectively.\n\n\n- North Americans also formed the melting pot that is Brazil, with the country being one of the few which received US-Americans who fled the American Civil War, settling in Southeastern and Southern Brazil during the American reconstruction period. In addition, smaller numbers of North Americans immigrated after 1808. The descendants of those Confederate colonies are culturally known as the Confederados sub-group, especially in the countryside of São Paulo, where they founded towns and their presence was stronger - Brazilians of US-American descent can be found throughout the country, resulting from other periods and the dispersion of the Confederados descendants, who are nowadays mostly mixed with other groups and sometimes mistaken for descendants of British immigrants. Ethnically the Confederados were mostly English-Welsh, Scottish, Irish, German and Scandinavian.\n\n- South Americans were strongly represented by Argentines since the 18th century and always had a strong community in the country. They still form one of the largest South American immigrant groups in Brazil, nowadays only surpassed by Bolivians (see modern times). Uruguayan citizens after the country's independence from the Empire of Brazil were also noticeable throughout the 19th and 20th centuries.\n\n\n- North African regions, historically distinguished from Sub-Saharan Africa, also sent immigrants. This time they mainly came from Egypt, with around 10,000 people, than the Maghreb region, especially Morocco (mostly Jews who went to Northern Brazil). Therefore, a stronger influx from other cultures occurred, contrary to Colonial Brazil, where most Africans were forced labor work brought from the Black populations.\n\n- Other Africa-born people mainly include Dutch South-Africans (Boeren or Afrikaners) and people from the former Portuguese Empire, mainly Angola (during the Great Immigration, but especially after the Civil Wars post-independence). Here people of several ethnicities immigrated (mainly Africans of European descent, but also Blacks and Coloured people).\n\nNote: Dozen other immigrant groups form sizable communities with some varying number of descendants (5,000 to + 30 million). Only in this period, the port of Santos, São Paulo, which was widely known as the most important entrance of immigrants in Brazil, received people from more than 60 different countries. Other important ports, which occasionally received other immigrant groups as the before mentioned, were the ones in the cities of Rio de Janeiro, Porto Alegre, Vitória, Recife etc.\n\nNot to be compared with the great immigration before, a still ongoing influx from Africa (Angola, Senegal) and South America and the Caribbean (Bolivia, Paraguay, Chile, Uruguay, Haiti, Suriname) is happening since the late 60's. Asian immigrants (from Palestine, China, South Korea, returning Japanese Brazilians, Dutch Indonesians, Afghans and immigrants from Vietnam, Iran, Pakistan, the Philippines and others) as well as from Europe (Portugal due to ties, young qualified professionals from Western Europe, especially after 2008, Northern Europeans who seek warmer weather and some Eastern Europeans) are thriving in varying numbers.\n\nAfter 1975 large groups of Dutch Surinamese or Boeroes immigrated to Brazil due to the independence in Suriname. Most of them settled in the countryside of São Paulo and Paraná where there are thriving Dutch Brazilian colonies.\n\nCurrent foreign population\n\nIn 2011, the country was home to 1.5 million foreign born people, more than twice as of 2009.\n\nThe numbers still could be higher, as there are many undocumented people in Brazil as well. For both, the documented and undocumented, most of the foreigners come from Portugal, Bolivia, China, Paraguay, Angola, Spain, Argentina, Japan and the United States. The major work visas concessions were granted for citizens of the United States and the United Kingdom.\n\nLusitanian immigration never ceased throughout the 19th and 20th centuries. Portuguese people in diaspora settled in Brazil especially during the 1970s coming from former Portuguese colonies like Macau or Angola after its independence. \nAn additional figure of 1.2 million Portuguese arrived between 1951 and 1975 to settle mostly in the Southeast. \nNowadays, Lusitanians constitute the biggest group of foreigners living in the country, with over 690,000 Portuguese nationals currently living in Brazil. The vast majority arrived in the last decade. The first semester of 2011 solely had an increase of 52 thousand Portuguese nationals applying for a permanent residence visa while another large group was granted Brazilian citizenship.\n\nToday, people of more than 220 nationalities have communities in Brazil, 40 of them more than 10,000 people.\n\nRefugees\n\nIn 2014, Brazil was home to 5,208 refugees from 79 different nationalities. The three largest refugee ancestries were Syrian (1,626), Colombian (1,154) and Angolan (1062). In addition to these numbers, there are several thousand people who had entered the country and are still waiting for the government to acknowledge their refugee status, as 1,830 people from Bangladesh in 2013 alone and other 1,021 people from Syria and 799 people from Senegal, for example.\n\nBrazil is today home to 4.5 thousand Afghans and was a destination for Vietnamese boat people in the past.\n\nNote: The ethnic composition of Brazilians is not uniform across the country.\n\nThe other two Southeastern states, Minas Gerais and Espírito Santo, are around 50% White (the Southeast region also includes Levantine Arabs). São Paulo has the largest absolute number with 30 million Whites, followed by Minas Gerais, Rio Grande do Sul, Rio de Janeiro and Paraná, while Santa Catarina, where 86% of the population has European phenotype, reaches the highest percentage.\n\nThe cities of São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Porto Alegre, Curitiba, Brasília and Belo Horizonte have the largest populations of Ashkenazi Jews.\n\nMost East Asians, especially Japanese Brazilians, the largest group, live in São Paulo and Paraná. Most Koreans also live in São Paulo whereas the Chinese diaspora is spread particularly throughout the Southeast. Rio de Janeiro has a large Chinese population following São Paulo.\n\n\nThe Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE) classifies the Brazilian population in five categories: \"brancos\" (white), \"negros\" (black), \"pardos\" (brown or mixed), \"amarelos\" (Asian/yellow) and \"índios\" (Amerindian), based on skin color or race. The last detailed census (PNAD) found Brazil to be made up of c. 91 million white people (White Brazilian), 79 million multiracial people (Pardo), 14 million black people (Afro-Brazilian), 2-4 million Asian people (Asian Brazilian) and 807,900 indigenous (Amerindian) people.\nIn the 2005 detailed census, for the first time in two decades, the number of White Brazilians did not exceed 50% of the population. On the other side, the number of \"pardos\" (multiracial) people increased and all the others remained almost the same. According to the IBGE, this trend is mainly because of the revaluation of the identity of historically discriminated ethnic groups.\n\nBrazil is said to be among the most miscegenated countries in the world, as since the country was discovered and during the colonial period intermarriage between races was never illegal and common. Those of full ancestry are usually the Brazilians who can trace back their ethnicity to more recent immigration from the monarchical period in the 19th century until the Republican 20th and 21st centuries. Still, many Brazilians can not trace back their real origin easily. For instance, European family names which were difficult to pronounce were commonly changed to easier Portuguese surnames. In basic terms, it could be said that half of Brazilians are descendants of populations from the colonial era and the other half made of modern immigration. Brazil is a true melting pot of Europeans, Asians, Africans and Indigenous people, who either are in the single group or a mixture of various different backgrounds and races.\n\nWhites constitute the majority of Brazil's population regarding the total numbers within a single racial group, having the most numerous population in the Southern Hemisphere.\n\nThe country has the second largest White population in the Americas, with around 89.9 million people.\n\nAnd White Brazilians make up the third largest White population in the world, after the United States and Russia, also counting in total numbers.\n\nThe majority came from the Great Immigration period, which was the large European influx after steps had been taken for \"whitening policies\" during the Monarchy and Early Republican periods. Those policies also sought labor and also were made in order to avoid the foreign invasion threat of sparsely populated areas in the South. Various other groups derive from colonial times and post-war decades.\n\nThere are people of European descent distributed throughout the entire territory of Brazil, however, Southeast and South Brazil have the largest White populations. Whereas the Southeast region has the largest absolute numbers, 79.8% of the population in the three southernmost states has European or Caucasian phenotype.\nThe state of Santa Catarina in Southern Brazil has the highest percentage, being almost 90% European. São Paulo in the Southeast has the fourth highest rate, but is the state with the most Whites in absolute numbers of 30 million Whites, mainly from Europe, also having largest Levantine Arab and Jewish populations.\n\nBrazil is home to 240 immigrant or extoctone languages, most of them European languages. \nStandard German and German dialects make the second most spoken language in Brazil with around 4 million bilingual speakers or 2% of the population, other Caucasoid immigration languages are Italian, Venetian or Talian dialect, Polish, Castilian, Ukrainian, Russian, Dutch, Hebrew, Yidish, Lithuanian and Lettish, French, Norwegian, Swedish, English,\n\nAssorted German dialects (including the ancient East Pomeranian dialect, practically extinct in Europe) and Venetian or Talian share co-official status with Portuguese in several municipalities.\n\nMultiracials constitute the second largest group of Brazil, with around 84,7 million people. The term \"Pardo\" or mixed race Brazilian is a rather complex one. Multiracial Brazilians appear in hundreds of different shades, colours and backgrounds. They are typically a mixture of colonial and post-colonial Europeans with descendants of African slaves and the Indigenous peoples of the Americas. Some individuals may also descend from Maghreb people, Jews, Middle Eastern and Egyptian people, or a more recent ancestry from East or South Asia. Skin colours can vary from light to dark. The caboclo or mestiço population, those who are a miscegenation of Native and European, revolves around 43 million people. Genetic studies conducted by the geneticist Sergio D.J. Pena of the Federal University of Minas Gerais have shown that the Caboclo population is made of individuals whose DNA ranges from 70% to 90% European (mostly Portuguese, Spanish, Dutch, French or Italian 1500s to 1700s male settlers) with the remaining percentage spanning different Indigenous markers. Similar DNA tests showed that people self-classified as Mulatto or White and Black mix, span from 62% to 85% European (mostly descendants of Portuguese, Dutch and French settlers during the colonial period in the Northeast). The Pardo category in Brazil also includes 800 thousand Gypsies or Roma people, most of them coming from Portugal but also different countries in Eastern Europe and the Baltics. Eurasians can also be classified as Pardo. The majority of them consisting of Ainoko or Hafu, individuals who are a miscegenation between Japanese and European.\n\nRecent research has suggested that Asians from the early Portuguese Eastern Empire, known as Luso-Asians first came to Brazil during the sixteenth century as seamen known as Lascars, or as servants, slaves and concubines accompanying the governors, merchants and clergy who has served in Portuguese Asia. This first presence of Asians was limited to Northeast Brazil, especially Bahia, but others were brought as cultivators, textile workers and miners to Pará and other parts of the Northeast.\n\nThe largest populations with Pardo individuals are found in northern and northeastern Brazil, with many inhabiting the states of Mato Grosso, Goiás, Espírito Santo, Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro (state), São Paulo (state) and Paraná (state), as well as the Federal District. While the occurrence of Pardos is not uniform across the country, there are states with more people of mixed background than others. It also can happen that Pardos constitute significant numbers within single regions in states.\n\nBlacks constitute the third largest ethnic group of Brazil with around 14,5 million citizens or 7,6 % of the population. These are people who have origins in any of the black populations of Africa. In the country, these are generally used for Brazilians with at least partial Sub-Saharan African ancestry. Most African Brazilians are the direct descendants of captive Africans who survived the slavery era within the boundaries of the present Brazil, but also with considerable European and Amerindian ancestry. Afro-Brazilians might not directly be compared to Pardo-Brazilians. The number of African genes is substantially higher in Afro-Brazilians, therefore their skin colour is darker compared to mixed-race Brazilians.\nBrazil, followed by the US, has the largest African diaspora in the Americas.\n\nToday most Blacks are either Catholic or Evangelical. Smaller groups are Irreligious including Atheists and a number of African tradition sects can be found especially in Bahia, notably Candomblé and Umbanda. The latter being a syncretism of Roman Catholicism, African traditions, Spiritism and Indigenous beliefs. A minority of Blacks follows Kardecism, which is a blend of Christianism and Spiritualism founded in France.\n\nMost Blacks can be found in Bahia and Maranhão states after the colonial period influx, as well as in the northern region of Minas Gerais thanks to the Diamond and Gold Rush period and parts of Rio de Janeiro due to slavery in the former royal court after its transfer.\n\nAsians, in common parlance referred to East-Asians, constitute the fourth largest ethnic group of Brazil with 2.2 million people, what may not include mixed East Asians. The largest East-Asian ethnic group in the country are the Japanese. \nBrazil has the largest population of Japanese people outside Japan, being in percentage or absolute numbers. The number of Japanese Brazilians revolves around 1.8 million descendants and the Japanese community also comprises 57 thousand Japanese nationals. According to Ethnologue over 400 thousand people speak Japanese in Brazil.\n\nThe others are mainly Chinese, Taiwanese and South Korean. Due to the recent immigration of Chinese citizens to Brazil the number of these people is constantly on the rise.\n\nSouth Asians also left descendants in Brazil, mostly East Indians, Vietnamese, Indonesians and Bengali. However, there is a current stronger influx of Bengalis (between 5 and 10,000) nowadays, most of them refugees. Moreover, South Asians might not be included into the category of people with \"yellow\" skin colour, as they are physically different from Eastern Asian populations and therefore more likely to fit into the Pardo category.\n\nThere are large groups of East Asian Catholics as well as non-religious Asians. \nBuddhism in Brazil is also very common among non-Asians, especially Whites, with Japanese Buddhism being among the most usual and oldest forms. \nShinto practices involving life style and funerals are very common in Nipponese families of São Paulo and Paraná states. Shinto-derived Japanese New Religions are very popular throughout the nation. The largest Nipponese new religions are Seicho-no-Ie, Tenrikyo, Perfect Liberty Kyodan and Church of World Messianity. \nKorean Confucianism and Chinese Confucianism are especially found in São Paulo capital.\n\nIndigenous people constitute the fifth largest ethnic group of Brazil, with around 800,000 individuals. It is the oldest ethnic group in the country, mainly located in the surroundings of the Amazon basin inside the Amazon Forest but also in various reservations throughout the five geographical regions. Compared to the total population of the country the number might seem small, but millions of Brazilians actually have some Indigenous ancestry. This happened mainly because of the miscegenation of indigenous tribes with colonial settlers.\n\nAround 180 Native or autoctone languages are spoken in Brazil by 160 thousand people, many of them have threatened status. Most Natives can communicate in Portuguese and tribes in reservations have their mother tongue and Portuguese taught at schools. Today 517 thousand people live in Indigenous reservations.\n\nGenetic studies have shown the Brazilian population as a whole to have European, African and Native Americans components.\n\nA 2015 autosomal genetic study, which also analysed data of 25 studies of 38 different Brazilian populations concluded that: European ancestry accounts for 62% of the heritage of the population, followed by the African (21%) and the Native American (17%). The European contribution is highest in Southern Brazil (77%), the African highest in Northeast Brazil (27%) and the Native American is the highest in Northern Brazil (32%).\n\nAn autosomal study from 2013, with nearly 1300 samples from all of the Brazilian regions, found a pred. degree of European ancestry combined with African and Native American contributions, in varying degrees. 'Following an increasing North to South gradient, European ancestry was the most prevalent in all urban populations (with values up to 74%). The populations in the North consisted of a significant proportion of Native American ancestry that was about two times higher than the African contribution. Conversely, in the Northeast, Center-West and Southeast, African ancestry was the second most prevalent. At an intrapopulation level, all urban\npopulations were highly admixed, and most of the variation in ancestry proportions was observed between individuals within each population rather than among population'.\n\nAn autosomal DNA study (2011), with nearly 1000 samples from every major race group (\"whites\", \"pardos\" and \"blacks\", according to their respective proportions) all over the country found out a major European contribution, followed by a high African contribution and an important Native American component. \"In all regions studied, the European ancestry was predominant, with proportions ranging from 60.6% in the Northeast to 77.7% in the South\". The 2011 autosomal study samples came from blood donors (the lowest classes constitute the great majority of blood donors in Brazil), and also public health institutions personnel and health students.\n\nAccording to an autosomal DNA study from 2010, \"a new portrayal of each ethnicity contribution to the DNA of Brazilians, obtained with samples from the five regions of the country, has indicated that, on average, European ancestors are responsible for nearly 80% of the genetic heritage of the population. The variation between the regions is small, with the possible exception of the South, where the European contribution reaches nearly 90%. The results, published by the scientific magazine \"American Journal of Human Biology\" by a team of the Catholic University of Brasília, show that, in Brazil, physical indicators such as skin colour, colour of the eyes and colour of the hair have little to do with the genetic ancestry of each person, which has been shown in previous studies (regardless of census classification). \"Ancestry informative SNPs can be useful to estimate individual and population biogeographical ancestry. Brazilian population is characterized by a genetic background of three parental populations (European, African, and Brazilian Native Amerindians) with a wide degree and diverse patterns of admixture. In this work we analyzed the information content of 28 ancestry-informative SNPs into multiplexed panels using three parental population sources (African, Amerindian, and European) to infer the genetic admixture in an urban sample of the five Brazilian geopolitical regions. The SNPs assigned apart the parental populations from each other and thus can be applied for ancestry estimation in a three hybrid admixed population. Data was used to infer genetic ancestry in Brazilians with an admixture model. Pairwise estimates of F(st) among the five Brazilian geopolitical regions suggested little genetic differentiation only between the South and the remaining regions. Estimates of ancestry results are consistent with the heterogeneous genetic profile of Brazilian population, with a major contribution of European ancestry (0.771) followed by African (0.143) and Amerindian contributions (0.085). The described multiplexed SNP panels can be useful tool for bioanthropological studies but it can be mainly valuable to control for spurious results in genetic association studies in admixed populations\". It is important to note that \"the samples came from free of charge paternity test takers, thus as the researchers made it explicit: \"the paternity tests were free of charge, the population samples involved people of variable socioeconomic strata, although \"likely to be leaning slightly\ntowards the ‘‘pardo’’ group\"\".\n\nAn autosomal DNA study from 2009 found a similar profile \"all the Brazilian samples (regions) lie more closely to the European group than to the African populations or to the Mestizos from Mexico\".\n\nAccording to another autosomal DNA study from 2008, by the University of Brasília (UnB), European ancestry dominates in the whole of Brazil (in all regions), accounting for 65.90% of ancestry of the population, followed by the African contribution (24.80%) and the Native American (9.3%).\n\nA 2014 autosomal DNA study, which analysed data from 1594 samples from all of the Brazilian regions, found that Brazilians show widespread European ancestry with the highest levels being observed in the south. African ancestry is also widespread (except for the south) and reaches its highest values in the East of the country. Native American ancestry is highest in the north-west (Amazonia). In conclusion, European ancestry accounts for 82% of the heritage of the population, followed by the African (9%) and the Native American (9%).\n\nHaplogroup frequencies do not determine phenotype nor admixture. They are very general genetic snapshots, primarily useful in examining past population group migratory patterns. Only autosomal DNA testing can reveal admixture structures, since it analyses millions of alleles from both maternal and paternal sides. Contrary to yDNA or mtDNA, which are focused on one single lineage (paternal or maternal) the autosomal DNA studies profile the whole ancestry of a given individual, being more accurate in describing the complex patterns of ancestry in a given place. According to a genetic study in 2000 who analysed 247 samples (mainly identified as \"white\" in Brazil) who came from four of the five major geographic regions of the country, the mtDNA pool (maternal lineages) of present-day Brazilians clearly reflects the imprints of the early Portuguese colonization process (involving directional mating), as well as the recent immigrant waves (from Europe) of the last century.\n\nAccording to a study in 2001, the vast majority of Y chromosomes (male lineages) in white Brazilian males, regardless of their regional source, is of European origin (>90% contribution), with a very low frequency of sub-Saharan African chromosomes and a complete absence of Amerindian contributions. These results configure a picture of strong directional mating in Brazil involving European males, on one side, and European, African and Amerindian females, on the other.\n\nIn a study from 2016, the authors investigated a set of 41 Y-SNPs in 1217 unrelated males from the five Brazilian geopolitical regions. A total of 22 different haplogroups were detected in the whole Brazilian sample, revealing the three major continental origins of the current population, namely from America, Europe and Africa. The genetic differences observed among regions were, however, consistent with the colonization history of the country. The sample from the Northern region presented the highest Native American ancestry (8.4%), whereas the more pronounced African contribution could be observed in the Northeastern population (15.1%). The Central-Western and Southern samples showed the higher European contributions (95.7% and 93.6%, respectively). The Southeastern region presented significant European (86.1%) and African (12.0%) contributions. Portugal was estimated to be the main source of the male European lineages to Central-West, Southeast and South Brazil. The North and the Northeast showed the highest contribution from France and Italy, respectively. The highest migration rate from Lebanon was to the Central-Weast, whereas a significant migration from Germany was observed to the Central East, Southeast and South.\n\nIn the Brazilian \"white\" and \"pardos\" the autosomal ancestry (the sum of the ancestors of a given individual) tends to be in most cases predominantly European, with often a non European mtDNA (which points to a non European ancestor somewhere down the maternal line), which is explained by the women marrying newly arrived colonists, during the formation of the Brazilian people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17769516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17769516", "title": "California Legislative LGBT Caucus", "text": "California Legislative LGBT Caucus\n\nThe California Legislative LGBT Caucus is an American political organization formed in June 2002 and composed of openly lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender members of the California State Legislature. The caucus currently has eight members, which is a record held over three non-consecutive sessions.\n\nThis group is contrasted to other LGBT Equality Caucuses in that the California caucus consists entirely of LGBT legislators while other LGBT Equality Caucuses consist of all orientations. Both, however, promote the promulgation of LGBT-affirming laws within the legislature.\n\nThe caucus was established to champion legislation that advances equality and the rights of LGBT Californians. Its members have introduced and passed numerous measures related to gay rights, including two same-sex marriage bills (both vetoed by the governor), bills prohibiting discrimination in state government, tackling orientation-based bullying in schools and adequately funding HIV/AIDS treatment. In December 2008, in the wake of the passage of Proposition 8, members of the LGBT Caucus pushed a resolution expressing the legislature's opinion that the proposition was unconstitutional.\n\nIn addition, the caucus sponsors an annual LGBT Pride Exhibit every June and presents the LGBT Pride Recognition Awards to outstanding Californians. In 2006, several Republican legislators boycotted the awards ceremony, walking off the Assembly floor as the awards were presented. This boycott stalled the ceremony for several years until 2009 when it was resurrected. In each year since, many Republicans have boycotted the ceremony.\n\nA 2016 documentary film, \"Political Animals\", by Jonah Markowitz features the accomplishments of California legislators Carole Migden, Sheila Kuehl, Jackie Goldberg, and Christine Kehoe.\n\n17 openly LGBT people have served in the legislature and been members of the caucus – all gay or lesbian and Democrats. Eight of them are current office holders.\n\nIn addition, there has been one gay member of the legislature who, despite being open about his sexual orientation, was not a member of the caucus. Republican state senator Roy Ashburn from Kern County came out in March 2010 after having been arrested while driving under the influence on his way home from a gay bar. He served the remaining eight months of his term but did not join the caucus.\n\nThere have also been members of the legislature who, though not open about their sexuality at the time they served in public office, subsequently declared themselves gay or lesbian. Dennis Mangers, who represented Orange County in the Assembly from 1976 to 1980, married his partner of 17 years, Michael Sestak, in June 2008. Art Torres, who served 8 years in the Assembly and 12 in the State Senate before going on to spend 13 years as chair of the California Democratic Party, came out publicly in April 2009.\n\nThe table below shows members of the legislature who were openly LGBT at the time they served. It extends back to the election of the first openly gay member of the California legislature: Sheila Kuehl (elected November 1994). The caucus was founded in 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "22264522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22264522", "title": "Calle Jonsson", "text": "Calle Jonsson\n\nCalle Jonsson (born 9 June 1983) is a Swedish citizen born in Långträsk, Piteå who was arrested in July 2001 on the Greek island of Kos, accused of attempted murder. His case is one of Sweden's most known and reported criminal cases in modern times.\n\nJonsson was arrested on the island of Kos on 26 July 2001, accused of attacking Christoforos Serdaris—a waiter from Thessaloniki, Greece—while on holiday. Serdaris lost consciousness after he had been stabbed five times in the thigh, and three times in the chest and abdomen. Jonsson denied all charges against him from the time he was arrested. He was in custody until February 2002 when he was released on bail and returned to Sweden. In November 2003, a Swedish court ruled that he must return to Greece to face trial. Jonsson's family told the newspaper \"Aftonbladet\" that Serdaris had sought a payoff of , and began the legal proceedings when the family refused to pay. Jonsson decided not to attend the trial, as he said he did not trust the Greek justice system.\n\nIn the autumn 2004 Greece decided to have Jonsson extradited to the country via a European arrest warrant. The Swedish Supreme Court granted the request in November 2004. The request marked the first time Sweden was compelled to extradite a citizen under a 2004 law requiring European Union member states to trust each other's legal systems. An earlier extradition attempt had failed when Greece's parliament did not ratify the European arrest warrant legislation.\n\nJonsson was handed over to the Greek courts in January 2005 after he had appealed the ruling to all Swedish authorities. During the trial held on the isle of Rhodes, the prosecution described a fight between Jonsson and Serdaris. Serdaris claimed that Jonsson had attacked him. DNA evidence showed that Serdaris's blood was on the shirt Jonsson was wearing at the time of the alleged attack. Jonsson claimed that the Greek police had smeared his shirt with Serdaris's blood in an attempt to frame him. Greek police did not examine the crime scene. According to Jonsson's attorney, Leif Silbersky, the Greek police had placed Jonsson's clothes in the same drawer as Serdaris's clothes, causing DNA contamination. The clothing was held in Kos after the attack but was not analyzed before the trial; in fact, the clothes were not moved from Kos to the courtroom in Rhodes until the prosecutor requested an adjournment to have them brought in. Silbersky also pointed out that Serdaris did not identify Jonsson as his attacker at the time of the incident. When Serdaris was first shown Jonsson, Serdaris said that Jonsson could not be the person who attacked him.\n\nGeorgios Economou, the prosecutor, said that Jonsson was found lying under Sedaris, which could have indicated Jonsson stabbed him in self-defense, according to Economou. Economou also noted Jonsson's youth and lack of fluency in Greek. Accordingly, Economou recommended a mild sentence. Jonsson faced a maximum prison sentence of 20 years, which, per the terms of his extradition agreement, would have been served in a Swedish prison.\n\nOn 12 April 2005, the jury unanimously found Jonsson not guilty. He was released immediately. Serdaris's lawyer announced plans to appeal.\n\nIn November 2006, the Greek Court of Cassation ruled that Jonsson must be retried. The ruling stated, \"We wonder how the t-shirt came into contact with the stabbed person's shoes and trousers.\" The Swedish Foreign Ministry described the court's order as \"extremely surprising\".\n\nThe trial was supposed to begin on 19 November 2007 but was postponed when Jonsson failed to appear. Jonsson's lawyer Silbersky had advised him not to attend; if he had appeared voluntarily and were found guilty, he would have served his sentence in a Greek jail. If the Greek authorities were forced to issue a European arrest warrant for him, he would have the option to serve his sentence in a Swedish prison. A strike by lawyers in Greece also contributed to the postponement.\n\nIn April 2009, Greek officials charged Jonsson and his parents with perjury, false statement, and aggravated defamation. Silbersky called the charges \"absolutely ridiculous\", saying that the case had become a matter of prestige for the Greek officials.\n\nParallels to Jonsson's case were drawn with the case of \"Swedish Anna\", a Swedish woman vacationing in Greece who reported being raped to the Greek police. The case was closed before it went to trial, and Anna was prosecuted by the Greek justice system for defamation. The Jonsson and Anna cases lead to calls for Swedish vacationers to boycott Greece; experts predicted this call would have no impact on tourism.\n"}
{"id": "5177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5177", "title": "Communication", "text": "Communication\n\nCommunication (from Latin \"commūnicāre\", meaning \"to share\") is the act of conveying meanings from one entity or group to another through the use of mutually understood signs, symbols, and semiotic rules.\n\nThe main steps inherent to all communication are:\n\nThe scientific study of communication can be divided into:\n\nThe channel of communication can be visual, auditory, tactile (such as in Braille) and haptic, olfactory, electromagnetic, or biochemical.\n\nHuman communication is unique for its extensive use of abstract language. Development of civilization has been closely linked with progress in telecommunication.\n\nNonverbal communication describes the processes of conveying a type of information in the form of non-linguistic representations. Examples of nonverbal communication include haptic communication, chronemic communication, gestures, body language, facial expressions, eye contact, and how one dresses. Nonverbal communication also relates to the intent of a message. Examples of intent are voluntary, intentional movements like shaking a hand or winking, as well as involuntary, such as sweating. Speech also contains nonverbal elements known as paralanguage, e.g. rhythm, intonation, tempo, and stress. It affects communication most at the subconscious level and establishes trust. Likewise, written texts include nonverbal elements such as handwriting style, the spatial arrangement of words and the use of emoticons to convey emotion.\n\nNonverbal communication demonstrates one of Paul Wazlawick's laws: you cannot not communicate. Once proximity has formed awareness, living creatures begin interpreting any signals received. Some of the functions of nonverbal communication in humans are to complement and illustrate, to reinforce and emphasize, to replace and substitute, to control and regulate, and to contradict the denovative message.\n\nNonverbal cues are heavily relied on to express communication and to interpret others' communication and can replace or substitute verbal messages. However, non-verbal communication is ambiguous. When verbal messages contradict non-verbal messages, observation of non-verbal behaviour is relied on to judge another's attitudes and feelings, rather than assuming the truth of the verbal message alone.\n\nThere are several reasons as to why non-verbal communication plays a vital role in communication:\n\n\"Non-verbal communication is omnipresent.\" They are included in every single communication act. To have total communication, all non-verbal channels such as the body, face, voice, appearance, touch, distance, timing, and other environmental forces must be engaged during face-to-face interaction. Written communication can also have non-verbal attributes. E-mails and web chats allow an individual's the option to change text font colours, stationary, emoticons, and capitalization in order to capture non-verbal cues into a verbal medium.\n\n\"Non-verbal behaviours are multifunctional.\" Many different non-verbal channels are engaged at the same time in communication acts and allow the chance for simultaneous messages to be sent and received.\n\n\"Non-verbal behaviours may form a universal language system.\" Smiling, crying, pointing, caressing, and glaring are non-verbal behaviours that are used and understood by people regardless of nationality. Such non-verbal signals allow the most basic form of communication when verbal communication is not effective due to language barriers.\n\nVerbal communication is the spoken or written conveyance of a message. Human language can be defined as a system of symbols (sometimes known as lexemes) and the grammars (rules) by which the symbols are manipulated. The word \"language\" also refers to common properties of languages. Language learning normally occurs most intensively during human childhood. Most of the thousands of human languages use patterns of sound or gesture for symbols which enable communication with others around them. Languages tend to share certain properties, although there are exceptions. There is no defined line between a language and a dialect. Constructed languages such as Esperanto, programming languages, and various mathematical formalism is not necessarily restricted to the properties shared by human languages.\n\nAs previously mentioned, language can be characterized as symbolic. Charles Ogden and I.A Richards developed The Triangle of Meaning model to explain the symbol (the relationship between a word), the referent (the thing it describes), and the meaning (the thought associated with the word and the thing).\n\nThe properties of language are governed by rules. Language follows phonological rules (sounds that appear in a language), syntactic rules (arrangement of words and punctuation in a sentence), semantic rules (the agreed upon meaning of words), and pragmatic rules (meaning derived upon context).\n\nThe meanings that are attached to words can be literal, or otherwise known as denotative; relating to the topic being discussed, or, the meanings take context and relationships into account, otherwise known as connotative; relating to the feelings, history, and power dynamics of the communicators.\n\nContrary to popular belief, signed languages of the world (e.g., American Sign Language) are considered to be verbal communication because their sign vocabulary, grammar, and other linguistic structures abide by all the necessary classifications as spoken languages. There are however, nonverbal elements to signed languages, such as the speed, intensity, and size of signs that are made. A signer might sign \"yes\" in response to a question, or they might sign a sarcastic-large slow yes to convey a different nonverbal meaning. The sign yes is the verbal message while the other movements add nonverbal meaning to the message.\n\nOver time the forms of and ideas about communication have evolved through the continuing progression of technology. Advances include communications psychology and media psychology, an emerging field of study.\n\nThe progression of written communication can be divided into three \"information communication revolutions\":\n\nCommunication is thus a process by which meaning is assigned and conveyed in an attempt to create shared understanding. Gregory Bateson called it \"the replication of tautologies in the universe. This process, which requires a vast repertoire of skills in interpersonal processing, listening, observing, speaking, questioning, analyzing, gestures, and evaluating enables collaboration and cooperation.\n\nBusiness communication is used for a wide variety of activities including, but not limited to: strategic communications planning, media relations, public relations (which can include social media, broadcast and written communications, and more), brand management, reputation management, speech-writing, customer-client relations, and internal/employee communications.\n\nCompanies with limited resources may choose to engage in only a few of these activities, while larger organizations may employ a full spectrum of communications. Since it is difficult to develop such a broad range of skills, communications professionals often specialize in one or two of these areas but usually have at least a working knowledge of most of them. By far, the most important qualifications communications professionals can possess are excellent writing ability, good 'people' skills, and the capacity to think critically and strategically.\n\nCommunication is one of the most relevant tools in political strategies, including persuasion and propaganda. In mass media research and online media research, the effort of the strategist is that of getting a precise decoding, avoiding \"message reactance\", that is, message refusal. The reaction to a message is referred also in terms of approach to a message, as follows:\nHolistic approaches are used by communication campaign leaders and communication strategists in order to examine all the options, \"actors\" and channels that can generate change in the semiotic landscape, that is, change in perceptions, change in credibility, change in the \"memetic background\", change in the image of movements, of candidates, players and managers as perceived by key influencers that can have a role in generating the desired \"end-state\".\n\nThe modern political communication field is highly influenced by the framework and practices of \"information operations\" doctrines that derive their nature from strategic and military studies. According to this view, what is really relevant is the concept of acting on the Information Environment. The information environment is the aggregate of individuals, organizations, and systems that collect, process, disseminate, or act on information. This environment consists of three interrelated dimensions, which continuously interact with individuals, organizations, and systems. These dimensions are known as physical, informational, and cognitive.\n\nFamily communication is the study of the communication perspective in a broadly defined family, with intimacy and trusting relationship. The main goal of family communication is to understand the interactions of family and the pattern of behaviors of family members in different circumstances. Open and honest communication creates an atmosphere that allows family members to express their differences as well as love and admiration for one another. It also helps to understand the feelings of one another.\n\nFamily communication study looks at topics such as family rules, family roles or family dialectics and how those factors could affect the communication between family members. Researchers develop theories to understand communication behaviors. Family communication study also digs deep into certain time periods of family life such as marriage, parenthood or divorce and how communication stands in those situations. It is important for family members to understand communication as a trusted way which leads to a well constructed family.\n\nIn simple terms, interpersonal communication is the communication between one person and another (or others). It is often referred to as face-to-face communication between two (or more) people. Both verbal and nonverbal communication, or body language, play a part in how one person understands another. In verbal interpersonal communication there are two types of messages being sent: a content message and a relational message. Content messages are messages about the topic at hand and relational messages are messages about the relationship itself. This means that relational messages come across in \"how\" one says something and it demonstrates a person's feelings, whether positive or negative, towards the individual they are talking to, indicating not only how they feel about the topic at hand, but also how they feel about their relationship with the other individual.\n\nThere are many different aspects of interpersonal communication including:\n\nBarriers to effective communication can retard or distort the message or intention of the message being conveyed. This may result in failure of the communication process or cause an effect that is undesirable. These include filtering, selective perception, information overload, emotions, language, silence, communication apprehension, gender differences and political correctness\n\nThis also includes a lack of expressing \"knowledge-appropriate\" communication, which occurs when a person uses ambiguous or complex legal words, medical jargon, or descriptions of a situation or environment that is not understood by the recipient.\n\nCultural differences exist within countries (tribal/regional differences, dialects etc.), between religious groups and in organisations or at an organisational level – where companies, teams and units may have different expectations, norms and idiolects. Families and family groups may also experience the effect of cultural barriers to communication within and between different family members or groups. For example: words, colours and symbols have different meanings in different cultures. In most parts of the world, nodding your head means agreement, shaking your head means no, except in some parts of the world.\n\nCommunication to a great extent is influenced by culture and cultural variables. Understanding \"cultural aspects of communication\" refers to having knowledge of different cultures in order to communicate effectively with cross culture people. Cultural aspects of communication are of great relevance in today's world which is now a global village, thanks to globalisation. Cultural aspects of communication are the cultural differences which influences communication across borders. Impact of cultural differences on communication components are explained below:\n\n\nSo in order to have an effective communication across the world it is desirable to have a knowledge of cultural variables effecting communication.\n\nAccording to Michael Walsh and Ghil'ad Zuckermann, Western conversational interaction is typically \"dyadic\", between two particular people, where eye contact is important and the speaker controls the interaction; and \"contained\" in a relatively short, defined time frame. However, traditional Aboriginal conversational interaction is \"communal\", broadcast to many people, eye contact is not important, the listener controls the interaction; and \"continuous\", spread over a longer, indefinite time frame.\n\nEvery information exchange between living organisms — i.e. transmission of signals that involve a living sender and receiver can be considered a form of communication; and even primitive creatures such as corals are competent to communicate. Nonhuman communication also include cell signaling, cellular communication, and chemical transmissions between primitive organisms like bacteria and within the plant and fungal kingdoms.\n\nThe broad field of animal communication encompasses most of the issues in ethology. Animal communication can be defined as any behavior of one animal that affects the current or future behavior of another animal. The study of animal communication, called \"zoo semiotics\" (distinguishable from anthroposemiotics, the study of human communication) has played an important part in the development of ethology, sociobiology, and the study of animal cognition. Animal communication, and indeed the understanding of the animal world in general, is a rapidly growing field, and even in the 21st century so far, a great share of prior understanding related to diverse fields such as personal symbolic name use, animal emotions, animal culture and learning, and even sexual conduct, long thought to be well understood, has been revolutionized.\n\nCommunication is observed within the plant organism, i.e. within plant cells and between plant cells, between plants of the same or related species, and between plants and non-plant organisms, especially in the root zone. Plant roots communicate with rhizome bacteria, fungi, and insects within the soil. Recent research has shown that most of the microorganism plant communication processes are neuron-like. Plants also communicate via volatiles when exposed to herbivory attack behavior, thus warning neighboring plants. In parallel they produce other volatiles to attract parasites which attack these herbivores.\n\nFungi communicate to coordinate and organize their growth and development such as the formation of Marcelia and fruiting bodies. Fungi communicate with their own and related species as well as with non fungal organisms in a great variety of symbiotic interactions, especially with bacteria, unicellular eukaryote, plants and insects through biochemicals of biotic origin. The biochemicals trigger the fungal organism to react in a specific manner, while if the same chemical molecules are not part of biotic messages, they do not trigger the fungal organism to react. This implies that fungal organisms can differentiate between molecules taking part in biotic messages and similar molecules being irrelevant in the situation. So far five different primary signalling molecules are known to coordinate different behavioral patterns such as filamentation, mating, growth, and pathogenicity. Behavioral coordination and production of signaling substances is achieved through interpretation processes that enables the organism to differ between self or non-self, a biotic indicator, biotic message from similar, related, or non-related species, and even filter out \"noise\", i.e. similar molecules without biotic content.\n\nCommunication is not a tool used only by humans, plants and animals, but it is also used by microorganisms like bacteria. The process is called quorum sensing. Through quorum sensing, bacteria are able to sense the density of cells, and regulate gene expression accordingly. This can be seen in both gram positive and gram negative bacteria.\nThis was first observed by Fuqua \"et al.\" in marine microorganisms like \"V. harveyi\" and \"V. fischeri\".\n\nThe first major model for communication was introduced by Claude Shannon and Warren Weaver for Bell Laboratories in 1949 The original model was designed to mirror the functioning of radio and telephone technologies. Their initial model consisted of three primary parts: sender, channel, and receiver. The sender was the part of a telephone a person spoke into, the channel was the telephone itself, and the receiver was the part of the phone where one could hear the other person. Shannon and Weaver also recognized that often there is static that interferes with one listening to a telephone conversation, which they deemed noise.\n\nIn a simple model, often referred to as the transmission model or standard view of communication, information or content (e.g. a message in natural language) is sent in some form (as spoken language) from an emitter (\"emisor\" in the picture)/ sender/ encoder to a destination/ receiver/ decoder. This common conception of communication simply views communication as a means of sending and receiving information. The strengths of this model are simplicity, generality, and quantifiability. Claude Shannon and Warren Weaver structured this model based on the following elements:\n\nShannon and Weaver argued that there were three levels of problems for communication within this theory.\n\nDaniel Chandler critiques the transmission model by stating:\n\nIn 1960, David Berlo expanded on Shannon and Weaver's (1949) linear model of communication and created the SMCR Model of Communication. The Sender-Message-Channel-Receiver Model of communication separated the model into clear parts and has been expanded upon by other scholars.\n\nCommunication is usually described along a few major dimensions: Message (what type of things are communicated), source / emisor / sender / encoder (by whom), form (in which form), channel (through which medium), destination / receiver / target / decoder (to whom), and Receiver. Wilbur Schram (1954) also indicated that we should also examine the impact that a message has (both desired and undesired) on the target of the message. Between parties, communication includes acts that confer knowledge and experiences, give advice and commands, and ask questions. These acts may take many forms, in one of the various manners of communication. The form depends on the abilities of the group communicating. Together, communication content and form make messages that are sent towards a destination. The target can be oneself, another person or being, another entity (such as a corporation or group of beings).\n\nCommunication can be seen as processes of information transmission with three levels of semiotic rules:\n\nTherefore, communication is social interaction where at least two interacting agents share a common set of signs and a common set of semiotic rules. This commonly held rule in some sense ignores autocommunication, including intrapersonal communication via diaries or self-talk, both secondary phenomena that followed the primary acquisition of communicative competences within social interactions.\n\nIn light of these weaknesses, Barnlund (2008) proposed a transactional model of communication. The basic premise of the transactional model of communication is that individuals are simultaneously engaging in the sending and receiving of messages.\n\nIn a slightly more complex form a sender and a receiver are linked reciprocally. This second attitude of communication, referred to as the constitutive model or constructionist view, focuses on how an individual communicates as the determining factor of the way the message will be interpreted. Communication is viewed as a conduit; a passage in which information travels from one individual to another and this information becomes separate from the communication itself. A particular instance of communication is called a speech act. The sender's personal filters and the receiver's personal filters may vary depending upon different regional traditions, cultures, or gender; which may alter the intended meaning of message contents. In the presence of \"communication noise\" on the transmission channel (air, in this case), reception and decoding of content may be faulty, and thus the speech act may not achieve the desired effect. One problem with this encode-transmit-receive-decode model is that the processes of encoding and decoding imply that the sender and receiver each possess something that functions as a codebook, and that these two code books are, at the very least, similar if not identical. Although something like code books is implied by the model, they are nowhere represented in the model, which creates many conceptual difficulties.\n\nTheories of coregulation describe communication as a creative and dynamic continuous process, rather than a discrete exchange of information. Canadian media scholar Harold Innis had the theory that people use different types of media to communicate and which one they choose to use will offer different possibilities for the shape and durability of society. His famous example of this is using ancient Egypt and looking at the ways they built themselves out of media with very different properties stone and papyrus. Papyrus is what he called 'Space Binding'. it made possible the transmission of written orders across space, empires and enables the waging of distant military campaigns and colonial administration. The other is stone and 'Time Binding', through the construction of temples and the pyramids can sustain their authority generation to generation, through this media they can change and shape communication in their society.\n\nIn any communication model, noise is interference with the decoding of messages sent over a channel by an encoder. There are many examples of noise:\nTo face communication noise, redundancy and acknowledgement must often be used. Acknowledgements are messages from the addressee informing the originator that his/her communication has been received and is understood. Message repetition and feedback about message received are necessary in the presence of noise to reduce the probability of misunderstanding.\nThe act of disambiguation regards the attempt of reducing noise and wrong interpretations, when the semantic value or meaning of a sign can be subject to noise, or in presence of multiple meanings, which makes the sense-making difficult. Disambiguation attempts to decrease the likelihood of misunderstanding. This is also a fundamental skill in communication processes activated by counselors, psychotherapists, interpreters, and in coaching sessions based on colloquium. In Information Technology, the disambiguation process and the automatic disambiguation of meanings of words and sentences has also been an interest and concern since the earliest days of computer treatment of language.\n\nThe academic discipline that deals with processes of human communication is communication studies. The discipline encompasses a range of topics, from face-to-face conversation to mass media outlets such as television broadcasting. Communication studies also examines how messages are interpreted through the political, cultural, economic, semiotic, hermeneutic, and social dimensions of their contexts. Statistics, as a quantitative approach to communication science, has also been incorporated into research on communication science in order to help substantiate claims.\n\n"}
{"id": "7695749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7695749", "title": "Deindustrialization", "text": "Deindustrialization\n\nDeindustrialization or deindustrialisation is a process of social and economic change caused by the removal or reduction of industrial capacity or activity in a country or region, especially heavy industry or manufacturing industry. It is the opposite of industrialization.\n\nThere are different interpretations of what deindustrialization is. Cairncross and Lever offer four possible definitions of deindustrialization:\n\nTheories that predict or explain deindustrialization have a long intellectual lineage. Rowthorn argues that Marx's theory of declining (industrial) profit may be regarded as one of the earliest. This theory argues that technological innovation enables more efficient means of production, resulting in increased physical productivity, i.e., a greater output of use value per unit of capital invested. In parallel, however, technological innovations replace people with machinery, and the organic composition of capital increases. Assuming only labor can produce new additional value, this greater physical output embodies a smaller value and surplus value. The average rate of industrial profit therefore declines in the longer term.\n\nRowthorn and Wells distinguish between deindustrialization explanations that see it as a positive process of, for example, maturity of the economy, and those that associate deindustrialization with negative factors like bad economic performance. They suggest deindustrialization may be both an effect and a cause of poor economic performance.\n\nPitelis and Antonakis suggest that, to the extent that manufacturing is characterized by higher productivity, this leads, all other things being equal, to a reduction in relative cost of manufacturing products, thus a reduction in the relative share of manufacturing (provided manufacturing and services are characterized by relatively inelastic demand). Moreover, to the extent that manufacturing firms downsize through, e.g., outsourcing, contracting out, etc., this reduces manufacturing share without negatively influencing the economy. Indeed, it potentially has positive effects, provided such actions increase firm productivity and performance.\n\nGeorge Reisman identified inflation as a contributor to deindustrialization. In his analysis, the process of fiat money inflation distorts the economic calculations necessary to operate capital-intensive manufacturing enterprises, and makes the investments necessary for sustaining the operations of such enterprises unprofitable.\n\nInstitutional arrangements have also contributed to deindustrialization such as economic restructuring. With breakthroughs in transportation, communication and information technology, a globalized economy that encouraged foreign direct investment, capital mobility and labor migration, and new economic theory's emphasis on specialized factor endowments, manufacturing moved to lower-cost sites and in its place service sector and financial agglomerations concentrated in urban areas.\n\nThe term de-industrialization crisis has been used to describe the decline of labor-intensive industry in a number of countries and the flight of jobs away from cities. One example is labor-intensive manufacturing. After free-trade agreements were instituted with less developed nations in the 1980s and 1990s, labor-intensive manufacturers relocated production facilities to third world countries with much lower wages and lower standards. In addition, technological inventions that required less manual labor, such as industrial robots, eliminated many manufacturing jobs.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8043", "title": "Demographics of Djibouti", "text": "Demographics of Djibouti\n\nThis article is about the demographics of Djibouti, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nDjibouti is a multiethnic country. As of , it has a population of around inhabitants. Djibouti's population grew rapidly during the latter half of the 20th century, increasing from about 62,000 in 1950 to 889,000 by 2010.\n\nThe two largest ethnic groups are the Somali (60%) and the Afar (35%). The Somali clan component is mainly composed of the Issas, a sub-clan of the larger Dir. The remaining 5% of Djibouti's population primarily consists of Arabs, Ethiopians and Europeans (French and Italians). Approximately 76% of local residents are urban dwellers; the remainder are pastoralists.\n\nDjibouti is a multilingual nation. The majority of local residents speak Somali (524,000 speakers) and Afar (306,000 speakers) as a first language. These idioms are the mother tongues of the Somali and Afar ethnic groups, respectively. Both languages belong to the larger Afroasiatic family. There are three official languages in Djibouti: Somali, Arabic and French.\n\nArabic is of religious importance. In formal settings, it consists of Modern Standard Arabic. Colloquially, about 59,000 local residents speak the Ta'izzi-Adeni Arabic dialect, also known as \"Djibouti Arabic\". French serves as a statutory national language. It was inherited from the colonial period, and is the primary language of instruction. Around 17,000 Djiboutians speak it as a first language. Immigrant languages include Omani Arabic (38,900 speakers), Amharic (1,400 speakers), Greek (1,000 speakers) and Hindi (600 speakers).\n\nAccording to , the total population was in compared to 62,000 in 1950. The proportion of children below the age of 15 in 2010 was 35.8%, 60.9% was between 15 and 65 years of age, while 3.3% was 65 years or older.\nThe following are UN medium variant projections; numbers are in thousands:\n\nRegistration of vital events in Djibouti is incomplete. The Population Department of the United Nations prepared the following estimates.\nBirths and deaths \nThe following demographic statistics are from the CIA World Factbook, unless otherwise indicated.\n\nTotal: 22.8 years\n<br>Male: 21.1 years\n<br>Female: 24.1 years (2014 est.)\n\nTotal population: 62.4 years\n<br>Male: 59.93 years\n<br>Female: 64.94 years (2014 est.)\n\nnote: \"highly pathogenic H5N1 avian influenza has been identified in this country; it poses a negligible risk with extremely rare cases possible among US citizens who have close contact with birds (2013)\"\n\nSomali 60%, Afar 88%, French and Italians, Arab, Ethiopian 5%\n\nThe religious adherents of Djibouti are:\n\nThe languages of Djibouti are:\n"}
{"id": "24118655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24118655", "title": "Deutscher Bridge Verband", "text": "Deutscher Bridge Verband\n\nThe Deutscher Bridge-Verband (DBV, German Bridge Association) is an association for bridge players and bridge clubs in Germany. It was founded in 1949 and comprises 14 regional associations with about 28,000 members (out of around 500,000 bridge players in Germany) and about 470 clubs. The DBV promotes bridge in Germany and represents the country at the international level.\n"}
{"id": "9311462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9311462", "title": "Ethnic groups in Afghanistan", "text": "Ethnic groups in Afghanistan\n\nAfghanistan is a multiethnic and mostly-tribal society. The population of the country is divided into the following ethnolinguistic groups: Pashtun, Tajik, Hazara, Uzbek, Aymāq, Turkmen, Baloch, Pashai, Nuristani, Gujjar, Arab, Brahui, Pamiri and a few others. The Afghan National Anthem and the Afghan Constitution mention a total of 14 ethnic groups.\n\nThe term \"Afghan\" is synonymous with the ethnonym \"Pashtun\" and has been mentioned as early as the 3rd century, referring to the tribes inhabiting the lands south of the Hindu Kush around the Sulaiman Mountains. It became prominent during the Khalji, Lodi, and Suri dynasties of Northern India. The name became the national identity of Afghanistan in modern times. Despite being of various ethnic groups, in a research poll that was conducted in 2009, 72% of the population labelled their identity as Afghan first, before ethnicity.\n\nWhile national culture of Afghanistan is not uniform, at the same time, the various ethnic groups have no clear boundaries between each other and there is much overlap. Additionally, ethnic groups are not racially homogenous. Even though all ethnic groups in Afghanistan share a very similar culture, there are certain traditions and celebrations that each ethnic group has adopted from each other. For example, nowruz is the Persian New Year, which was originally celebrated by the Persians has now been adopted by some of the other groups. The attan which was originally a dance performed by Pashtuns, is now the national dance of Afghanistan.\n\nThe Pashtuns (ethnic Afghans) make up the largest ethnic group in Afghanistan, comprising between 38% and 42% of the country's population. Their main territory, sometimes called Pashtunistan, is between the Hindu Kush mountains in Afghanistan and the Indus River in neighboring Pakistan, where they are the second largest ethnic group. After the rise of the Hotaki dynasty in 1709 and the Durrani Empire in 1747, Pashtuns expanded by forming communities north of the Hindu Kush and elsewhere in Afghanistan.\nThere are conflicting theories about the origin of the Pashtun people, both among historians and the Pashtun themselves. A variety of ancient groups with eponyms similar to \"Pukhtun\" have been hypothesized as possible ancestors of modern Pashtuns. The Greek historian Herodotus mentioned a people called \"Pactyans\", living in the Achaemenid's Arachosia Satrap as early as the 1st millennium BC. Since the 3rd century AD and onward they are mostly referred to by the ethnonym \"Afghan\", a name believed to be given to them by neighboring Persian people. Some believe that ethnic \"Afghan\" is an adaptation of the Prakrit ethnonym \"Avagana\", attested in the 6th century CE. It was used to refer to a common legendary ancestor known as \"Afghana\", propagated to be grandson of King Saul of Israel.\n\nAccording to scholars such as V. Minorsky and others, the name \"Afghan\" appears in the 982 CE Hudud-al-Alam geography book. Al-Biruni referred to a group of Afghans in the 11th century as various tribes living on the western frontier mountains of Ancient India and Persia, which would be the area between the Hindu Kush mountains in Afghanistan and the Indus River in what is now Pakistan. According to other sources, some Pashtuns may be the Lost tribes of Israel who converted to Islam during the Arab Empire. Since the 13th century, some Pashtun tribes conquered areas outside their traditional Pashtun homeland by pushing deeper into South Asia, often forming kingdoms such as the Delhi Sultanate.\n\nThe modern Afghan national identity developed in the mid 18th century under the rule of Ahmad Shah Durrani, who united all the tribes and formed the last Afghan empire. Pashtuns are the traditional rulers of Afghanistan since the rise of the Hotaki dynasty in 1709 or more specifically when the Durrani Empire was created in 1747. They practice Sunni Islam and follow the Hanafi school of thought. The Karzai administration, which is led by Hamid Karzai, is dominated by Pashtun ministers. In the 2014, Afghan presidential election, all of the eleven candidates were Pashtuns.\n\nSome notable Pashtuns of Afghanistan include: Hamid Karzai, Ashraf Ghani, Nazo Tokhi, Akbar Khan, Malalai of Maiwand, Abdul Ahad Momand, Zalmay Khalilzad, the Afghan Girl, Hedayat Amin Arsala, Abdul Rahim Wardak, Sher Mohammad Karimi, Abdul Salam Azimi, Zalmai Rassoul, Omar Zakhilwal, Ghulam Farooq Wardak, Anwar ul-Haq Ahady, Daud Shah Saba, Mohammad Gulab Mangal, Gul Agha Sherzai, Asadullah Khalid, Mohammad Hanif Atmar, Mohammad Ishaq Aloko, Mohammed Omar, Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, Ahmad Zahir, Nashenas, Ubaidullah Jan, Naghma, Farhad Darya Nasher, Suhaila Seddiqi, Shukria Barakzai, Fauzia Gailani, the Hotakis, Durranis, Tarzis, Gailanis, Nashers, and Karzais. The monarchs of Afghanistan were all Pashtuns, except one who ruled for only ten months in 1932.\n\nTajiks form the second largest ethnic group in Afghanistan. They are a native Persian-speaking people. As a self-designation, the term \"Tajik\", which earlier on had been more or less pejorative, has become acceptable only during the last several decades, particularly as a result of Soviet administration in Central Asia. Alternative names for the Tajiks are \"Fārsī\" (Persian), \"Fārsīwān\" (Persian-speaker), and \"Dīhgān\" (cf. , literally \"farmer or settled villager\", in a wider sense \"settled\" in contrast to \"nomadic\"). \n\nLike the rest of the ethnic groups in Afghanistan, the origin of Tajiks is a mystery. They were only able to rule and at the same time legitimize their rule as second- or even as immediate sub-rulers with some significant influence on the foreigners – with the exception of the short 10-month rule of Habibullah Kalakani in 1929. The total number of Tajiks in Afghanistan was around 4.3 million in 1995, and the Encyclopædia Britannica explains that by the early 21st century they constituted about one-fifth of the population.\nTajiks are the major ethnic group in neighboring Tajikistan, a country that was created north of Afghanistan in 1991. During the late 19th century and early 20th century, large number of Central Asian Tajiks fled the conquest of their native homeland by Russian Red Army and settled in northern Afghanistan.\n\nIn Afghanistan, Tajiks are the majority in the city of Herat. The city of Mazar-e-Sharif is 60% Tajik, Kabul is approximately 45% and Ghazni 50%. Many are known to be in the Afghan National Security Forces (ANSF) while some in the major cities are bureaucrats, doctors, teachers, professors, traders, and shopkeepers. Others live in rural areas, particularly in Badakhshan, and engage in agriculture. The ethnic Tajiks are the closest rivals to Pashtuns for political power and prestige in Afghanistan. At the same time, they often engage in business partnerships and marriage contracts with each other. The Northern Alliance which opposed the Taliban government was dominated by Tajiks. Some notable Tajiks from Afghanistan include: Habibullah Kalakani, Burhanuddin Rabbani, Ahmad Shah Massoud, Ahmad Zia Massoud, Mohammed Fahim, Yunus Qanuni, Ismail Khan, Bismillah Khan Mohammadi, Atta Muhammad Nur, Amrullah Saleh, Wasef Bakhtari, Abdul Latif Pedram, Massouda Jalal, Baz Mohammad Ahmadi, Mohammed Daud Daud, Abdul Basir Salangi, and Fawzia Koofi.\n\nThe Hazara is the third largest ethnic group in Afghanistan. They are Persian-speaking and reside mainly in the Hazarajat region in central Afghanistan. The Hazaras seem to have partial Turco-Mongol origins with admixture from surrounding indigenous, Iranian-speaking groups. Linguistically the Hazara speak a dialect of Persian, known as Hazaragi, and sometimes their variant is interspersed with Turkic and Mongolic words. It is commonly believed that the Hazara are descendants of Genghis Khan's army, which invaded Afghanistan during the 12th century. Proponents of this view hold that many of the Mongol soldiers and their family members settled in the area and remained there after the Mongol empire dissolved in the 13th century, converting to Islam and adopting local customs. Most of the Hazaras practice Shia Islam, while most of the other Afghans are Sunni. Hazaras living in Afghanistan were estimated in 1995 at about one million and now they are between 6 to 7 million. \nSome notable Hazaras of Afghanistan include: Abdul Ali Mazari, Ismael Balkhi, Karim Khalili, Sultan Ali Keshtmand, Habiba Sarābi, Sarwar Danish, Ustad Muhammad Akbari, Sima Samar, Ramazan Bashardost, Abdul Haq Shafaq, Sayed Anwar Rahmati, Qurban Ali Urozgani, Azra Jafari, Ahmad Shah Ramazan, Muhammad Mohaqiq, Ahmad Behzad, Nasrullah Sadiqi Zada Nili, Rohullah Nikpai, Hamid Rahimi, Fariba Rezayee, Wakil Hussain Allahdad and Dawood Sarkhosh.\n\nThe Uzbeks are the main Turkic people of Afghanistan whose native territory is in the northern regions of the country. Most likely the Uzbeks migrated with a wave of Turkic invaders and intermingled with local Iranian tribes over time to become the ethnic group they are today. By the 16th century the Uzbeks had settled throughout Central Asia and reached Afghanistan following the conquests of Muhammad Shaybani. The Uzbeks of Afghanistan are Sunni Muslims and fluent in Uzbek. Uzbeks living in Afghanistan were estimated in the 1990s at approximately 1.3 million but are now believed to be 2 million.\n\nSome notable Uzbeks of Afghanistan include: Abdul Rashid Dostum, Husn Banu Ghazanfar, Abdul Rauf Ibrahimi, Muhammad Yunus Nawandish, Sherkhan Farnood, Abdul Malik Pahlawan and Rasul Pahlawan.\n\n\"Aimaq\", meaning \"tribe\" in Turkic-Mongolic (\"Oymaq\"), is not an ethnic denomination, but differentiates semi-nomadic herders and agricultural tribal groups of various ethnic origins including the Tajik, Hazara and Baluch, that were formed in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. They live among non-tribal people in the western areas of Badghis, Ghor and Herat provinces. They are Sunni Muslims, speak Aimaq dialect of the Persian close to Dari, and refer to themselves with tribal designations. Population estimates vary widely, from less than 500,000 to around 800,000.\n\nThe Turkmen are the smaller Turkic group. They are Sunni Muslims, and their origins are very similar to that of the Uzbeks. Unlike the Uzbeks, however, the Turkmen are traditionally a nomadic people (though they were forced to abandon this way of life in Turkmenistan itself under Soviet rule). In the 1990s their number was put at around 200,000.\n\nThe Baloch people are speakers of Balochi who are mostly found in and around the Balochistan region of Afghanistan. In the 1990s their number figure was put at 100,000 but they are around 200,000 today. They are most likely an offshoot of the Kurds and reached Afghanistan sometimes between 1000 and 1300 BCE. Mainly pastoral and desert dwellers, the Baloch are also Sunni Muslim. Abdul Karim Brahui Governor of Nimruz Province, is Baloch.\n\nThe Nuristani are an Indo-Iranian people, representing a third independent branch of the Aryan peoples (Indo-Aryan, Iranian and Nuristani), who live in isolated regions of northeastern Afghanistan as well as across the border in the district of Chitral in Pakistan. They speak a variety of Nuristani languages. Better known historically as the Kafirs of what was once known as Kafiristan (land of pagans), they converted to Islam during the rule of Amir Abdur Rahman and their country was renamed \"Nuristan\", meaning \"Land of Light\" (as in the light of Islam). A small unconquered portion of Kafiristan inhabited by the Kalash people who still practice their pre-Islamic religion still exists across the border in highlands of Chitral, northwestern Pakistan. Many Nuristanis believe that they are the descendants of Alexander the Great's ancient Greeks, but there is a lack of genetic evidence for this and they are more than likely an isolated pocket of early Aryan invaders. Physically, the Nuristani are of the Mediterranean sub-stock with about one-third recessive blondism. They follow Sunni Islam like most of the other Afghans. The population in the 1990s was estimated at 125,000 by some; the Nuristani prefer a figure of 300,000.\n\nSmaller groups include the Moghol, Pashai, Pamiri, Kyrgyz, Arabs, Punjabis and Gujjar.\n\nThe population of Afghanistan was estimated in 2017 at 29.2 million. Of this, 15 million are males and 14.2 million females. About 22% of them are urbanite and the remaining 78% live in rural areas. An additional 3 million or so Afghans are temporarily housed in neighboring Pakistan and Iran, most of whom were born and raised in those two countries. This makes the total Afghan population at around 33,332,025, and its current growth rate is 2.34%.\n\nThe Afghan government announced it will begin issuing e-ID cards (e-Tazkiras) in which the ethnicity of each citizen is to be provided in the application. This process is expected to reveal the exact figures about the size and composition of the country's ethnic groups.\n\nAn approximate distribution of the ethnic groups is shown in the chart below:\n\nThe recent estimate in the above chart is supported by the below recent national opinion polls, which were aimed at knowing how a group of about 804 to 8,706 local residents in Afghanistan felt about the current war, political situation, as well as the economic and social issues affecting their daily lives. Ten surveys were conducted between 2004 and 2015 by the Asia Foundation (a sample is shown in the table below; the survey in 2015 did not contain information on the ethnicity of the participants) and one between 2004 and 2009 by a combined effort of the broadcasting companies NBC News, BBC, and ARD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12224595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12224595", "title": "FBI Silvermaster File", "text": "FBI Silvermaster File\n\nThe Silvermaster File of the United States' Federal Bureau of Investigation is a 162-volume compendium of some 26,000 pages of documents relating to the Bureau's investigation of Communist penetration of the U.S. federal government during the Cold War.\n\nBeginning in 1945 with the allegations of defecting Soviet courier Elizabeth Bentley (Venona cover names “Myrna”; \"Umnitsa\", “Clever Girl”), the file is also known as the Bentley file or Gregory file (\"Gregory\" was the FBI code name for Bentley).\n\nThe file takes its name from Nathan Gregory Silvermaster (Venona cover names Pel, Pal, \"Paul\"; \"Robert\") of the War Production Board, whom Bentley named as head of an underground Communist network known as the Silvermaster Group. Among the people named in the file in connection with this group are President Franklin Roosevelt's Administrative Assistant Lauchlin Currie (Venona cover name \"Page\") and Assistant Secretary of the Treasury Harry Dexter White (Venona cover names “Lawyer”; “Jurist”; \"Richard\").\n\nAlso named in the file are Victor Perlo (Venona cover name \"Raider\"), chief of the Aviation Section of the War Production Board, and contacts of his Perlo group, including Alger Hiss (Venona cover name “Ales”), secretary general of the United Nations Charter Conference. (Like several others identified by Bentley, Hiss had been identified independently by another defecting Soviet courier, Whittaker Chambers, to Assistant Secretary of State Adolf Berle in 1939.) Among dozens of others named by Bentley in this file in connection with this network is Duncan Lee (Venona cover name “Koch”), confidential assistant to William Donovan, founder and director of the Office of Strategic Services (OSS), wartime predecessor of the CIA.\n\nOriginal plans for Bentley to serve as a double agent and gather sufficient evidence to prosecute the Soviet agents identified in the Silvermaster files were ruined when her identity was inadvertently leaked and the USSR quickly shut down its operations in order to avoid embarrassing and damaging prosecutions. The Silvermaster file in combination with other secret proofs such as the Venona intercepts gave US intelligence the identity of many Soviet agents without the practical means to secure convictions. Also, the statute of limitations for an espionage prosecution was quite short. This was a significant part of the backstory of McCarthyism. Bentley's double agent career would have enabled the US to expose the spies without compromising Venona and losing that as an ongoing intelligence source.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21790698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21790698", "title": "Forum Qualitative Social Research", "text": "Forum Qualitative Social Research\n\nThe Forum: Qualitative Social Research (German: \"Forum Qualitative Sozialforschung\") is a triannual peer-reviewed online academic journal covering the theory, methodology, and application of qualitative research. The editor-in-chief is Katja Mruck (Free University of Berlin). Articles published are in English, German, or Spanish. Recently, the journal has started incorporating Internet-specific forms of publication such as video and sound recordings. Manuscripts are published as soon as they have undergone peer review.\n\nThe journal is abstract and indexed by Intute, SocioSite, CSA Sociological Abstracts, CSA Worldwide Political Science Abstracts, International Bibliography of the Social Sciences, Psyndex, Solis, and SocINDEX.\n\nThe journal was established in 1999. It has since been developed into an information, communication, and networking portal. The project was initially funded by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft. \n"}
{"id": "2886563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2886563", "title": "Gar'in", "text": "Gar'in\n\nGar'in (, \"lit.\" kernel) is a Hebrew term used for groups of people who moved together to Ottoman Palestine, British Palestine, and since 1948, Israel.\n\nSince the beginning of the 20th century, groups of people (usually circles of young friends) moved to Palestine/Israel together. The term \"gar'in\" originally referred to these groups who came from all across the world. Immigrating in a group provided the support necessary for survival. Many of these groups founded their own kibbutzim. The phenomemon of these groups has been ongoing since before Israel was established in 1948.\n\nA variation of the original Gar'in groups still exist today. Whilst it is rare for gar'in to move to Israel together and form a community, the groups provide support for people interested in moving to Israel. They also provide forums for social-networking, information gathering, and encouragement.\n\nThe pre-military program Garin Tzabar facilitates and encourages the immigration of young Jews to Israel and supports them throughout their military service by placing them on Kibbutzim around the country.\n"}
{"id": "41166942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41166942", "title": "History of organizations", "text": "History of organizations\n\nThe history of organizations describes the general history of the rise of the organization.\n\nSince earliest times humanity has endeavoured to develop the most appropriate systems of organization to meet the challenges of a particular era. Inevitably the systems of organization that developed were reflections of the wider values, tradition and general organization of society at that time, moulded by the necessity of withstanding threat and seeking to innovate whilst maximising benefits from existing resources. Human development has continually necessitated a corollary of human and organizational development designed to maximize effectiveness. This progression is indicative of a civilizing process that has continually asked humanity to reassess its relationship with itself and to increasingly value the welfare of both the individual and wider society as a whole. The symbiotic relationship between strategic leadership and organizational structure necessary to success can be traced back to the beginnings of western civilization. Indeed, the very term \"strategic\" owes its etymology to the ancient Greek words for 'army' or a 'large body' and a 'leader'. In ancient Greece the 'Strategikos' was the leader of the army.\n\nIn 1776 the political economist Adam Smith wrote on how specialization can boost human productivity enormously. By specializing, people can use their talents, or acquire skill. And they can employ labour-saving machinery to boost production. Smith's view was borne out by the effects of mass industrialization in the late 18th century which caused great change in how people worked and how work was organized. On this topic Lynda Gratton, the organizational theorist, describes the \"fundamental and irreversible shift which changed the experiences of every worker.\" She states that prior to the Industrial Revolution, work was an \"artisan activity engaged largely in the home, using long held and meticulously developed craft skills.\" According to Gratton these skills \"began to be transformed as the manufacturing sector was developed and began to transcend the limits of artisanal production\".\n\nThe late 18th and early 19th century was a period where the artisan and the agricultural worker gave way to the burgeoning factory units that were beginning to emerge. The enclosure of vast tracts of commonage in the countryside facilitated a move from pastoral farming to grazing – forcing many from the land, often in dire circumstances. This growing trend of migration from the rural to the urban witnessed the growth of the metropolis, and the industrialized city. The growth of a mass society meant that the relationship with work was altered, it now became much more time centred and precise – a standardized approach was in the process of being developed.\n\nAlongside the migration of workers to the new factories largely situated around energy sources and communication networks – coal deposits and canals etc. this period witnessed the emergence of global corporations situated in key centres such as London and Paris, as trade followed the flag in a wave of colonization. The shift from coal to oil as the primary energy source for industry coupled with the decolonization of empires in the 20th century would witness shifting paradigms in the power relationships between major states. The issue of empire is important in the sense that economic advantages accrued through imperialism were a cornerstone in the advent of modernity, and the enforced homogeneity achieved through Empire coupled with the technological improvements in transport and technology that it funded made the world a lot smaller and lot more similar.\n\nWhilst recognising the significant impacts that the Industrial Revolution had, Gratton states that the \"real revolution\" in people's working lives began in the mid-to-late-19th century when British scientists drove a culture of innovation with the ideas of organisational and technological restructuring based on changes in the energy that powered industry. Joel Mokyr puts a timeframe of 1870-1914 on this \"Second Industrial Revolution\", the concept introduced by Patrick Geddes in his work Cities in Evolution. According to Gratton: \"Work became more regimented, more specialised. The workplace and the work schedule became more compartmentalised and hierarchical.\" Gratton states that this was 'the embryonic stages of Fordism – the rise of the engineer as the organiser of economic activity, and the decline of the artisan.\n\nFordism, named after Henry Ford, is \"a model of economic expansion and technological progress based on mass production: the manufacture of standardized products in huge volumes using special purpose machinery and unskilled labor\". The major advantages of this approach was that it cut down on the manpower necessary for the factory to operate, not to mention that it deskilled the labour itself, cutting down on costs of production.\n\nAccording to Gratton, \"in this second Industrial Revolution, engineers redesigned factories to make employees fit into the production line. By doing so workers lost their autonomy, becoming simply as interchangeable as the parts they created\".\n\nWhilst Fordism emerged in the United States, it was preceded in Europe by Taylorism. Taylor's main objective was to improve economic efficiency, especially labor productivity. He analyzed how specific jobs might be done more efficiently. He broke down manual tasks into a series of components that could be measured. Peter Drucker who, during the 20th century was known as the 'father of modern management' said that Taylor was \"the first man in history who did not take work for granted, but looked at it and studied it. His approach to work is still the basic foundation.\"\n\nProduction methods based on Fordism are no longer the primary method of industrial production. There are three main driving forces behind the emergence of 'Post-Fordism.' They are the rising of new technologies, internationalization and the paradigm shift from Fordism to post-Fordism. Post Fordism is based on flexible production, rising incomes for polyvalent skilled workers and the service class and increased profits based on technological and other innovations. Also post-Fordism accumulation will be more oriented to worldwide demand, not so much on demand within a state. Post-Fordism is more demand than supply-driven. As a labour process, post-Fordism can be defined as a flexible production process based on flexible systems and an appropriately flexible workforce.\n\nThe birth of modernity as it has been termed in the late 19th early 20th century presaged a period of incredible industrial, technical and intellectual advancement that was to completely alter mankind's relationship with and perception of time and space. Many of the technologies that we take for granted today can be seen as developments from scientific and technical breakthroughs achieved in the period between 1890 and 1920. The birth of the railroad (which dates back to the early 19th century), and later the automobile, was to lead to seismic changes in the manner and means in which the organization of the various units of human enterprise were to be restructured, from warfare to commerce. Mankind's new outer relationship with time would be best captured by the birth of the railroad and our inner relationship with time through the development of modernist literature, with its stream of consciousness. The parallel growth of industrial capitalism would lead to the identification of time as money. The speed of travel would see the subsuming of local time-zones into railway times. The American Civil War is regarded as the first modern conflict, as notwithstanding the massive casualties and periods of trench warfare, the mass movement of men and munitions by rail provided the genesis for the logistical capability that would contribute to the mechanization of warfare inevitability leading to the slaughter of World War I.\n\nWorld War II represents something of a tipping point in terms of its impact on the development of industrial organization and leadership. Just as the conflict precipitated incredible technological advancements in areas such as radar, computing and the development of the jet engine so it was for leadership models, particularly in the areas of communications and efficiency. The primary models and experience of leadership and organizational structure for the post war leaders of the business world were from the military in WWII, with the majority of Post War managers drawing on their military training as a model for organizational development.\n\nFrederick Winslow Taylor's 1911 \"The Principles of Scientific Management\" paved the way for the recognition of management as a scientific subject, with the MIT Sloan School of Management opening in 1914. However, organizational theorists such as Charles Handy and Henry Mintzberg both decry the lack of leadership and management training in the post WWII period. Handy in particular records how in his early career as an executive he was forced to rely on his formal academic training in Roman and Greek Classics as grounding for his management training. It would not be until some-time after WWII that the education of executives would be addressed in a critical manner. This would in time give birth to the management guru, with major implications for the science and theory of management and organizational development.\n\nThe growth of 'gentle commerce' interspersed with political and social thought processes to the degree that by the late 20th century, in a globalized interdependent economy, cooperation between nation states and trading blocs is the norm (notwithstanding the obvious aberrations of the rule); thankfully humanity has advanced beyond Clausewitz' dictum that decreed war as no more than politics in another manifestation to the degree that it is no longer acceptable for Democracies to use force to achieve political aims.\n\nAgainst this developing socio-political backdrop, organizations have continued to evolve. The contemporary zeitgeist suggests the developed world is primarily governed by social democracies, is hugely interdependent whilst engulfed in a tidal wave of endemic technological innovation and advances that will carry it into uncharted waters. All this alongside a growing sense of awareness of a global environmental threat, diminishing supplies of carbon fuels coupled in all too many instances with an existential crisis, that asks what is it all about?\n\nA prime example of progression from the antiquated hierarchical structures with its layers of middle management staffed by gate keepers congesting the flow of communications can be found in the 2008 Presidential Campaign conducted by Barack Obama. Obama's team harnessed the potential of social media to create a flat structure. Local activists were communicated with directly from campaign headquarters. Individuals became leaders in their own domain. They were able to access campaign material, and register supporters immediately upon accessing material provided online via the campaign website.\n\nThis innovative form of campaign allowed Obama to raise $750 million, primarily from small donors, along with registering one and half million volunteer campaign workers in twenty seven thousand campaign groups. However, following the appointment of Jim Messina as the campaign manager for the 2012 Presidential campaign the 2008 strategy was declared antiquated – indeed Steven Spielberg reportedly advised Messina to blow up the 2008 campaign it was so out of date.\n\nIn a future where any task that can be described as predictable or repetitive will invariably be delegated to forms of artificial intelligence, the old hierarchical command and control systems will become largely redundant. Success will be premised on speed and innovation, on the ability of organizations to synthesize real time information and perform strategic pivots that will allow immediate access to new opportunities. The 2012 Presidential election presaged how this may look in practice. Whilst the campaign remained grassroots oriented, continuing to harness social media, the engine behind the effort was a metrics driven campaign. The sheer magnitude of the data organizing effort was staggering, but all within one single comprehensive database.\n\nIn what was the largest political campaign in US political history, the technical staff utilized consumer data along with demographic information to devise a more accurate model of the electorate – in small slices. By taking cognizance of the 'Long Tail' of human preferences, analysts were able to develop micro campaigns that targeted key demographic groupings that many had predicted would not vote due to the impact of the economic downturn and high unemployment that underscored the administration's failure to deliver a quality of prose in government that had been promised by the poetry of the campaign. By identifying who the voter actually was through data mining and attaching a support score of 1–100 for each individual voter, the campaign team were able to build a macro picture of the election by breaking it down in its component parts.\n\nThe campaign itself became an evolutionary process designed to react to 'just in time information' that allowed the campaign to pivot in a new strategic direction to meet identified demand. This development from rigid hierarchical structures to an infrastructure deliberately designed to support innovative, but empirical evidenced decision making, represents the future of organizational development. Steve Jobs spoke of the need for future organizations to be run by ideas not hierarchies.\n"}
{"id": "21671940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21671940", "title": "Human trafficking in Kenya", "text": "Human trafficking in Kenya\n\nThe Government of Kenya does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of human trafficking. In 2008 it was reported that Kenya's anti-trafficking efforts improved markedly over the reporting period, particularly through greater investigations of suspected trafficking cases. U.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 2\" in 2017. Their efforts remain uncoordinated and lack strong oversight, creating an environment conducive to trafficking.\n\nThe government failed to punish acts of trafficking during the reporting period, but demonstrated significantly increased law enforcement activity throughout the reporting period. Kenya does not prohibit all forms of trafficking, though it criminalises the trafficking of children and adults for sexual exploitation through its Sexual Offenses Act, enacted in July 2006, which prescribes penalties that are sufficiently stringent and commensurate with those for rape; however, the law is not yet widely used by prosecutors. The Employment Act of 2007 outlaws forced labour and contains additional statutes relevant to labour trafficking. In September 2007, relevant government agencies provided comments on a draft comprehensive human trafficking bill to the Attorney General’s office, which continues to work with NGOs to further refine the bill. Police opened investigations into a number of significant cases during the reporting period, including the suspected trafficking of children by two school teachers in Kirinyaga District. In October 2007, police in Malindi arrested an Italian national on suspicion of human trafficking, facilitating child prostitution, and drug trafficking. Upon the conclusion of a separate police investigation, two women were charged with child defilement and child prostitution after luring a 14-year-old girl to their home and forcing her into prostitution. Two children trafficked to Tanzania for forced labour were rescued by Kenyan officials and placed in a children's home; the investigation is ongoing as police believe the perpetrators are harbouring an additional 40 children and six adults in forced labour. Six people in Bomet District and Nandi District of Rift Valley Province were charged with the sale and trafficking of children. The Police Commissioner worked with Interpol to investigate the suspected trafficking of a Kenyan girl to the Netherlands and four children to Ireland. The Ministry of Home Affairs began, for the first time, collecting information on trafficking cases from the police, media, foreign governments, and UNODC. Corruption among law enforcement authorities and other public officials hampered efforts to bring traffickers to justice. Some anti-trafficking activists made credible claims that, in certain areas, police officials were complicit in trafficking activities.\n\nIn 2010 Kenya passed the Counter-trafficking in persons act which criminalizes human trafficking. However, the act has been poorly implemented and has had little impact on curbing human trafficking.\n\nThe government made efforts during the reporting period to improve protective services provided to trafficking victims. Kenyan officials removed 14 children from situations of trafficking in Nandi and placed them in a children's home. The government referred two additional trafficking victims to IOM for assistance during the reporting period, and ensured the well-being of a number of other victims. City Council Social Services Departments in Nairobi, Mombasa, and Kisumu operated shelters to rehabilitate street children vulnerable to forced labour and commercial sexual exploitation; the government provided services to children exploited in the commercial sex industry at these facilities. In partnership with an NGO, the Ministry of Home Affairs provided and refurbished a building to house a toll-free hotline that enables children and adults to report cases of child trafficking, labour, and abuse. Staff members were hired and trained to serve as counselors and refer callers to government and NGO service providers. In June 2007, the Department of Home Affairs’ Children's Services Unit hired an additional 180 Chief Children's Officers; during the reporting period, several children's officers posted throughout the country were involved in trafficking investigations and provided counselling and follow-up to child trafficking victims. Fifteen newly appointed Kenyan ambassadors received a first-ever briefing on human trafficking at Kenya's Foreign Service Institute; preparations are underway for a comprehensive briefing from the Ministries of Labor and Home Affairs and IOM for mid-grade and junior officers on their responsibilities in assisting Kenyan victims abroad. The government encourages victims’ assistance in the investigation and prosecution of trafficking crimes, and ensures that they are not inappropriately incarcerated or otherwise penalised for unlawful acts committed as a direct result of being trafficked. The government does not, however, provide legal alternatives to the removal of victims to countries where they would face hardship or retribution.\n\nThe Government of Kenya made significant progress in publicly highlighting the dangers of human trafficking and taking steps to combat it during the reporting period. On numerous occasions, senior government officials, including the Vice-President, spoke publicly about trafficking and attended many awareness-raising events, including the Day of the African Child in June. The Kenyan media, especially the government-owned Kenya Broadcasting Corporation, regularly reported cases of suspected human trafficking. In July 2007, the government established the National Steering Committee to Combat Human Trafficking under the leadership of the Ministry of Home Affairs. Its Sub-Committee appointed to draft a national action plan received two days of training from IOM, after which it convened three drafting sessions and presented an initial outline of the plan in October. Officers from the Ministries of Youth and Labor received anti-trafficking training at IOM workshops in November and December 2007. In July 2007, the Malindi District Commission established and chaired a district-level committee on child sex tourism. In June 2007, a German national was arrested and charged with sexually exploiting two trafficked children from Nyanza at Likoni Children's Home. There were no reports of the Kenyan government's efforts to provide anti-trafficking training for its troops before deployment on international peacekeeping missions. Non-governmental organizations such as Awareness Against Human Trafficking (HAART) are working on ending human trafficking in Kenya.\n"}
{"id": "23522917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23522917", "title": "Impact investing", "text": "Impact investing\n\nImpact investing refers to investments \"made into companies, organizations, and funds with the intention to generate a measurable, beneficial social or environmental impact alongside a financial return.\" Impact investments provide capital to address social and/or environmental issues. They can be made in either emerging or developed markets, and depending on the goals of the investors, can \"target a range of returns from below-market to above-market rates\". Impact investors actively seek to place capital in businesses, nonprofits, and funds in industries such as renewable energy, basic services including housing, healthcare, and education, microfinance, and sustainable agriculture. Impact investing occurs across asset classes; for example, private equity/venture capital, debt, and fixed income.\n\nInstitutional investors, notably North American and European development finance institutions, pension funds and endowments have played a leading role in the development of impact investing. Under Pope Francis, the Catholic Church has witnessed an increased interest in impact investing.\n\nHistorically, regulation—and to a lesser extent, philanthropy—was an attempt to minimize the negative social consequences (unintended consequences, externalities) of business activities. However, a history of individual investors using socially responsible investing to express their values exists, and such investing behavior is usually defined by the avoidance of investments in specific companies or activities with negative effects. In his paper \"The Nature of Returns: A Social Capital Markets Inquiry into Elements of Investment and The Blended Value Proposition\", Jed Emerson first introduced the concept of blended value, relating it to the pursuit of maximized social, environmental, and financial returns on capital investments. In 2011, Antony Bugg-Levine and Jed Emerson co-authored the first book on impact investing, \"Impact Investing: Transforming How We Make Money While Making a Difference\". Since then, Emerson has produced a large body of work detailing the diverse investment vehicles available to maximize the social, environmental, and financial value of investments, as well as work related to the construction of an impact investment portfolio. \n\nSimultaneously, approaches such as pollution prevention, corporate social responsibility, and triple bottom line began as measurements of non-financial effects, both inside and outside of corporations. In 2000, Baruch Lev, of the NYU Stern School of Business, collated thinking about intangible assets in a book of the same name, which furthered thinking about the non-financial effects of corporate production.\n\nFinally, around 2007, the term \"impact investing\" emerged. A commitment to measuring social and environmental performance, with the same rigor as that applied to financial performance, is a critical component of impact investing.\n\nThe number of funds engaged in impact investing grew quickly over a five-year period and a 2009 report from research firm the Monitor Group estimated that the impact investing industry could grow from around US$50 billion in assets to $500 billion in assets within the subsequent decade. Such capital may be deployed using a range of investment instruments, including equity, debt, real assets, loan guarantees, and others. The growth of impact investing is partly attributed to the criticism of traditional forms of philanthropy and international development, which have been characterized as unsustainable and driven by the goals—or whims—of the corresponding donors.\n\nCurrently impact investing is still only a small market when compared to the global equity market, estimated at US$61 trillion (market capitalization of domestic listed companies) by the World Bank in 2015. Impact investors managed USD 114 billion in impact investing assets, a figure that serves as a best-available 'floor' for the size of the impact investing market, according to GIIN's 2017 \"Annual Impact Investor Survey\". The largest sectors by asset allocation were microfinance, energy, housing, and financial services.\n\nMany development finance institutions, such as the British Commonwealth Development Corporation or Norwegian Norfund, can also be considered impact investors, because they allocate a portion of their portfolio to investments that deliver financial as well as social or environmental benefits.\n\nImpact investing is distinguished from crowdfunding sites, such as Indiegogo or Kickstarter, because impact investments are typically debt or equity investments over US$1,000—with longer-than-traditional venture capital payment times—and an \"exit strategy\" (traditionally an initial public offering (IPO) or buyout in the for-profit startup sector) may be non-existent. Although some social enterprises are nonprofits, impact investing typically involves for-profit, social- or environmental-mission-driven businesses.\n\nOrganizations receiving impact investment capital may be set up legally as a for-profit, not-for profit, B Corporation, Low-profit Limited Liability Company, Community Interest Company, or other designations that may vary by country. In much of Europe, these are known as 'social enterprises'.\n\nImpact investments occur across asset classes and investment amounts. Among the best-known mechanism is private equity or venture capital. \"Social venture capital\", or \"patient capital\", impact investments are structured similarly to those in the rest of the venture capital community. Investors may take an active role mentoring or leading the growth of the company, similar to the way a venture capital firm assists in the growth of an early-stage company. Hedge funds and private equity funds may also pursue impact investing strategies.\n\nImpact investment \"accelerators\" also exist for seed- and growth-stage social enterprises. Similar to seed-stage accelerators for traditional startups, impact investment accelerators provide smaller amounts of capital than Series A financings or larger impact investment deals. Most \"impact investment accelerators\" are nonprofits, raising grants from donors to pay for business development services; however, commercially orientated accelerators providing investment readiness and capital-raising advisory services are emerging.\n\nLarge corporations are also emerging as powerful mechanisms for impact investing. Companies that seek to create shared value through developing new products/services, or positively impacting their operations, are beginning to employ impact investments through their value chain, particularly their supply chain.\n\nImpact investing can help organizations become self-sufficient by enabling them to carry out their projects and initiatives without having to rely heavily on donations and state subsidies. \n\nGovernments and national and international public institutions including development finance institutions have sought to leverage their impact-oriented policies by encouraging pension funds and other large asset owners to co-invest with them in impact-informed assets and projects, notably in the Global South. World Pensions Council and other US and European experts have welcome this course of action, insisting nonetheless that: ”Governments and international institutions need to do more if they truly seek to ‘unlock’ private sector capital in a meaningful way. They have to ask themselves the following questions: what are the concrete legal, regulatory, financial and fiduciary concerns facing pension fund board members? How can we improve emerging industry standards for impact measurement and help pension trustees steer more long-term capital towards valuable economic endeavors at home and abroad, while, simultaneously, ensuring fair risk-adjusted returns for future pensioners?”\n\nMission investments are investments made by foundations and other mission-based organizations to further their philanthropic goals. Jed Emerson has published viewpoints in favor of this strategy, asserting that foundations' endowments should be invested in alignment with the mission of the foundation, rather than solely to maximize financial return. Mission investments include any type of investment that is intended and designed to generate both a measurable social or environmental benefit and a financial return:\nImpact investing historically took place through mechanisms aimed at institutional investors. However, there are ways for individuals to participate in providing early stage or growth funding to such ventures.\n\nExchange-traded funds like the SPDR Gender Diversity ETF () from State Street are publicly traded and hence available to anyone with a stock brokerage account. MSCI offers 11 environmental, social and governance index ETFs, including popular low-carbon and sustainability indexes.\n\nGroups of angel investors focused on impact, where individuals invest as a syndicate also exist. Examples include Investors' Circle in the US, Clearly Social Angels in the United Kingdom and Toniic in Europe.\n\nWeb-based investing platforms, which offer lower-cost investing services, also exists. As equity deals can be prohibitively expensive for small-scale transactions, microfinance loans, rather than equity investment, are prevalent in these platforms. MyC4, founded in 2006, allows retail investors to loan to small businesses in African countries via local intermediaries. Microplace was an early United States provider of such services which ceased taking on new loans in 2014, stating that its results \"haven't scaled to the widespread social impact we aspire to achieve\".\n\nImpact Investing in Asia is a burgeoning sector with many funds currently in play. However, many funds suffer from finding robust levels of investment opportunities for their pipeline given their ability to hedge internal requirements and risks and a potential inability to exit the various investments that they are invested in.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10035514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10035514", "title": "Intimate partner violence", "text": "Intimate partner violence\n\nIntimate partner violence (IPV) is domestic violence by a current or former spouse or partner in an intimate relationship against the other spouse or partner. IPV can take a number of forms, including physical, verbal, emotional, economic and sexual abuse. The World Health Organization (WHO) defines IPV as \"... any behaviour within an intimate relationship that causes physical, psychological or sexual harm to those in the relationship, including acts of physical aggression, sexual coercion, psychological abuse and controlling behaviors.\"\n\nThe most extreme form of such violence may be termed \"battering\", \"intimate terrorism\", \"coercive controlling violence\", or simply \"coercive control\", in which one person is violent and controlling; this is generally perpetrated by men against women, and is the most likely of the types to require medical services and the use of a women's shelter. Subsequently, resistance to intimate terrorism, which is a form of self-defense and may be termed \"violent resistance\", is usually conducted by women. Studies on domestic violence against men suggest that men are less likely to report domestic violence perpetrated by their female intimate partners.\n\nThe most common but less injurious form of intimate partner violence is \"situational couple violence\" (also known as \"situational violence\"), which is conducted by individuals of both genders nearly equally, and is more likely to occur among younger couples, including adolescents (see teen dating violence) and those of college age. A last form of violence, in which both partners in the relationship engage in controlling and violent behavior, is called \"mutual violent control\".\n\nIntimate partner violence occurs between two people in an intimate relationship. It may occur between heterosexual or homosexual couples and victims can be male or female. Couples may be dating, cohabiting or married and violence can occur in or outside of the home.\n\nStudies in the 1990s showed that both men and women could be abusers or victims of domestic violence. Women are more likely to act violently in retaliation or self-defense and tend to engage in less severe forms of violence than men whereas men are more likely to commit long-term cycles of abuse than women. \n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) defines intimate partner violence as \"any behaviour within an intimate relationship that causes physical, psychological or sexual harm to those in the relationship\". The WHO also adds controlling behaviors as a form of abuse.\n\nAccording to a study conducted in 2010, 30% of women globally aged 15 and older have experienced physical and/or sexual intimate partner violence.\n\nThe WHO reported in 2013 that the incidence of women who had experienced physical or sexual abuse from an intimate partner in their lifetime was:\n\nThe U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) as of 2018 recommends screening women of reproductive age.\n\nSome of the most studied IPV screening tools were the Hurt, Insult, Threaten, and Scream (HITS), the Woman Abuse Screening Tool/Woman Abuse Screening Tool-Short Form (WAST/WAST-SF), the Partner Violence Screen (PVS), and the Abuse Assessment Screen (AAS).\n\nThe HITS is a four-item scale rated on a 5-point Likert scale from 1 (never) to 5 (frequently). This tool was Initially developed and tested among family physicians and family practice offices, and since then has been evaluated in diverse outpatient settings. Internal reliability and concurrent validity are acceptable. Generally, sensitivity of this measure has found to be lower among men than among women.\n\nThe WAST is an eight-item measure (there is a short form of the WAST that consists of the first two items only). It was originally developed for family physicians, but subsequently has been tested in the emergency department. It has been found to have good internal reliability and acceptable concurrent validity.\n\nThe PVS is a three-item measure scored on a yes/no scale, with positive responses to any question denoting abuse. It was developed as a brief instrument for the emergency department.\n\nThe AAS is a five-item measure scored on a yes/no scale, with positive responses to any question denoting abuse. It was created to detect abuse perpetrated against pregnant women. The screening tool has been tested predominantly with young, poor women. It has acceptable test retest reliability.\n\nThe probably most widely used instrument in research on family violence is the Conflict Tactics Scale (CTS). Two versions have been developed from the original CTS: the CTS2 (an expanded and modified version of the original CTS) and the CTSPC (CTS Parent-Child).\n\nMichael P. Johnson argues for four major types of intimate partner violence (also known as \"Johnson's typology\"), which is supported by subsequent research and evaluation, as well as independent researchers. Distinctions are made among the types of violence, motives of perpetrators, and the social and cultural context based upon patterns across numerous incidents and motives of the perpetrator. The United States Centers for Disease Control (CDC) also divides domestic violence into types.<ref name=\"10.2105/AJPH.2005.079020\"></ref>. Elaine Storkey in her comprehensive analysis, Scars Across Humanity IVP Academic 2018, argues that intimate partner violence is one aspect of a global manifestation of violence against women. Other examples she cites are selective abortion, female genital mutilation, early, enforced marriage, honour killings, rape, trafficking, prostitution and sexual violence in war.\n\nIntimate terrorism, or coercive controlling violence (CCV), occurs when one partner in a relationship, typically a man, uses coercive control and power over the other partner, using threats, intimidation, and isolation. CCV relies on severe psychological abuse for controlling purposes; when physical abuse occurs it too is severe. In such cases, \"[o]ne partner, usually a man, controls virtually every aspect of the victim's, usually a woman's, life.\" Johnson reported in 2001 that 97% of the perpetrators of intimate terrorism were men.\n\nIntimate partner violence may involve sexual, sadistic control, economic, physical, emotional and psychological abuse. Intimate terrorism is more likely to escalate over time, not as likely to be mutual, and more likely to involve serious injury. The victims of one type of abuse are often the victims of other types of abuse. Severity tends to increase with multiple incidents, especially if the abuse comes in many forms. If the abuse is more severe, it is more likely to have chronic effects on victims because the long-term effects of abuse tend to be cumulative. Because this type of violence is most likely to be extreme, survivors of intimate terrorism are most likely to require medical services and the safety of shelters. Consequences of physical or sexual intimate terrorism include chronic pain, gastrointestinal and gynecological problems, depression, post-traumatic stress disorder, and death. Other mental health consequences are anxiety, substance abuse, and low-self esteem.\n\nAbusers are more likely to have witnessed abuse as children than those who engage in situational couple violence.\n\nIntimate terrorism batterers include two types: \"Generally-violent-antisocial\" and \"dysphoric-borderline\". The first type includes people with general psychopathic and violent tendencies. The second type includes people who are emotionally dependent on the relationship. Violence by an individual against their intimate partner is often done as a way for controlling the partner, even if this kind of violence is not the most frequent.\n\nViolent resistance (VR), a form of self-defense, is violence perpetrated by victims against their partners who have exerted intimate terrorism against them. Within relationships of intimate terrorism and violent resistance, 96% of the violent resisters are women. VR can occur as an instinctive reaction in response to an initial attack or a defense mechanism after prolonged instances of violence. This form of resistance can sometimes become fatal if the victim feels as though their only way out is to kill their partner. \n\nSituational couple violence, also called common couple violence, is not connected to general control behavior, but arises in a single argument where one or both partners physically lash out at the other. This is the most common form of intimate partner violence, particularly in the western world and among young couples, and involves members of both sexes nearly equally. Among college students, Johnson found it to be perpetrated about 44% of the time by women and 56% of the time by men.\n\nJohnson states that situational couple violence involves a relationship dynamic \"in which conflict occasionally gets 'out of hand,' leading usually to 'minor' forms of violence, and rarely escalating into serious or life-threatening forms of violence.\"\n\nIn situational couple violence, acts of violence by men and women occur at fairly equal rates, with rare occurrences of injury, and are not committed in an attempt to control a partner. It is estimated that approximately 50% of couples experience situational couple violence in their relationships.\n\nSituational couple violence involves:\n\n\nMutual violent control (MVC) is rare type of intimate partner violence occurring when both partners act in a violent manner, battling for control.\n\nThe CDC divides domestic violence into two types: reciprocal, in which both partners are violent, and non-reciprocal violence, in which one partner is violent. Of the four types, situational couple violence and mutual violent control are reciprocal, while intimate terrorism is non-reciprocal. Violent resistance on its own is non-reciprocal, but is reciprocal when in response to intimate terrorism.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, studies using large, nationally representative samples resulted in findings indicating that women were as violent as men in intimate relationships. This information diverged significantly from shelter, hospital, and police data, initiating a long-standing debate, termed \"the gender symmetry debate\". One side of this debate argues that mainly men perpetrate IPV (the gender asymmetry perspective), whereas the other side maintains that both genders perpetrate IPV at about equal rates (gender symmetry perspective). However, research on gender symmetry acknowledges asymmetrical aspects of IPV, which show that men use more violent and often deadly means of IPV. Older conflict tactics scale (CTS) methodology was criticized for excluding two important facets in gender violence: conflict-motivated aggression and control-motivated aggression. For example, women commonly engage in IPV as a form of self-defense or retaliation. Research has shown that the nature of the abuse inflicted by women upon male partners is different from the abuse inflicted by men, in that it is generally not used as a form of control and does not cause the same levels of injury or fear of the abusive partner. Scholars state these cases should not be generalized and each couple's specificities must be assessed.\n\nWhile both women and men can be victims and perpetrators of IPV, the majority of such violence is inflicted upon women, who are also much more likely to suffer injuries as a result, in both heterosexual and same-sex relationships. Although men and women commit equivalent rates of unreported minor violence via situational altercation, more severe perpetration and domestic battery tends to be committed by men. This is based on newer CTS methodology as opposed to older versions that did not take into account the contexts in which violence takes place. A 2008 systematic review published in journal of \"Violence and Victims\" found that despite less serious altercation or violence being equal among both genders, more serious and violent abuse was perpetrated by men. It was also found that women's use of physical violence was more likely motivated by self-defense or fear whereas men's use of violence was motivated by control. A 2010 systematic review published in the journal of \"Trauma Violence Abuse\" found that the common motives for female on male IPV were anger, a need for attention, or as a response to their partner's violence. A 2011 review published in the journal of \"Aggression and Violent behavior\" found differences in the methods of abuse employed by men and women, suggesting that men were more likely to \"beat up, choke or strangle\" their partners, whereas women were more likely to \"throw something at their partner, slap, kick, bite, punch, or hit with an object\".\n\nResearchers such as Michael S Kimmel have criticized CTS methodology in assessing relations between gender and domestic violence. Kimmel argued that the CTS excluded two important facets in gender violence: conflict-motivated aggression and control motivated aggression. The first facet is a form of family conflict (such as an argument) while the latter is using violence as a tool for control. Kimmel also argued that the CTS failed to assess for the severity of the injury, sexual assaults and abuse from ex-partners or spouses.\n\nWomen generally suffer more severe and long-lasting forms of partner abuse than men, and men generally have more opportunities to leave an abusive partner than women do. Researchers have found different outcomes in men and women in response to such abuse. A 2012 review from the journal \"Psychology of Violence\" found that women suffered from over-proportionate numbers of injuries, fear, and posttraumatic stress as a result of partner violence. The review also found that 70% of female victims felt frightened as a result of violence perpetrated by their partners whereas 85% of male victims expressed \"no fear\" in response to such violence. Lastly, IPV correlated with relationship satisfaction for women but it did not do so for men.\n\nAccording to government statistics from the US Department of Justice, male perpetrators constituted 96% of federal prosecution on domestic violence. Another report by the US department of Justice on non-fatal domestic violence from 2003–2012 found that 76% of domestic violence was committed against women and 24% was committed against men. According to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, the percentage of victims killed by their spouses or ex-spouses was 77.4% for women and 22.6% for men in selected countries across Europe. \n\nGlobally, men's perpetration of intimate partner violence against women often stems from conceptions of masculinity and patriarchy. Studies done in the United States, Nigeria, and Guatemala all support the idea of men reacting violently towards their partners when their masculinity is threatened by changing gender roles.\n\nThe theory that women perpetrate intimate partner violence (IPV) at roughly the same rate as men has been termed \"gender symmetry.\" The earliest empirical evidence of gender symmetry was presented in the 1975 U.S. National Family Violence Survey carried out by Murray A. Straus and Richard J. Gelles on a nationally representative sample of 2,146 \"intact families.\" The survey found 11.6% of men and 12% of women had experienced some kind of IPV in the last twelve months, while 4.6% of men and 3.8% of women had experienced \"severe\" IPV. \n\nThese unexpected results led Suzanne K. Steinmetz to coin the controversial term \"battered husband syndrome\" in 1977. Ever since the publication of Straus and Gelles' findings, other researchers into domestic violence have disputed whether gender symmetry really exists. Sociologist Michael Flood writes, \"there is no 'gender symmetry' in domestic violence; there are important differences between men's and women's typical patterns of victimization; and domestic violence represents only a small proportion of the violence to which men are subject\". \n\nOther empirical studies since 1975 suggest gender symmetry in IPV. Empirical studies suggest rates of perpetration remain symmetrical for both minor and severe abuse. This result may be due to a bi-directional or reciprocal pattern of abuse, with one study concluding that 70% of assaults involve mutual acts of violence. A 2011 meta-analyses by Straus, of 200 studies, indicated that men and women commit IPV against each other at the same rate. One reason that data may appear to reflect that men and women equally commit intimate partner violence is that women frequently engage in violent resistance as a means of self-defense against their violent male partners. A 2010 systematic review of the literature on women's perpetration of IPV, however, found that distinguishing between self-defense and retaliation was difficult. \n\nA 2013 review examined studies from five continents and the correlation between a country's level of gender inequality and rates of domestic violence. The authors found that when partner abuse is defined broadly to include emotional abuse, any kind of hitting, and who hits first, partner abuse is relatively even. They also stated if one examines who is physically harmed and how seriously, expresses more fear, and experiences subsequent psychological problems, domestic violence is significantly gendered toward women as victims.\n\nSexual violence by intimate partners varies by country and can reach as high as 25% of the women having been subject to forced sex. In some countries forced sex, or marital rape, often occurs with other forms of domestic violence, particularly physical abuse.\n\nDue to the high prevalence and devastating consequences of IPV, approaches to decrease and prevent violence from re-occurring is of upmost importance. Initial police response and arrest is not always enough to protect victims from recurrence of abuse; thus, many states have mandated participation in batterer intervention programs (BIPs) for men who have been charged with assault against an intimate partner. Most of these BIPs are based on the Duluth Model and incorporate some cognitive behavioral techniques.\n\nThe Duluth model is one of the most common current interventions for IPV. It represents a psycho-educational approach that was developed by paraprofessionals from information gathered from interviewing battered women in shelters and using principles from feminist and sociological frameworks. One of the main components used in the Duluth Model is the 'power and control wheel,' which conceptualizes IPV as one form of abuse to maintain male privilege. Using the 'power and control wheel,' the goal of treatment is to achieve behaviors that fall on the 'equality wheel' by re-educate men and by replacing maladaptive attitudes held by men.\n\nCognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) techniques focus on modifying faulty or problematic cognitions, beliefs, and emotions to prevent future violent behavior and include skills training such as anger management, assertiveness, and relaxation techniques.\n\nOverall, the addition of Duluth and CBT approaches results in a 5% reduction in IPV. This low reduction rate might be explained, at least in part, by the high prevalence of bidirectional violence as well as client-treatment matching versus “one-size-fits-all” approaches.\n\nAchieving change through values-based behavior (ACTV) is a newly developed Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT)-based program. Developed by domestic violence researcher Amie Zarling and colleagues at Iowa State University, the aim of ACTV is teach abusers \"situational awareness\"—to recognize and tolerate uncomfortable feelings – so that they can stop themselves from exploding into rage.\n\nInitial evidence of the ACTV program has shown high promise: Using a sample 3,474 men who were arrested for domestic assault and court-mandated to a BIP (either ACTV or Duluth/CBT), Zarling and colleagues showed that compared with Duluth/CBT participants, significantly fewer ACTV participants acquired any new charges, domestic assault charges, or violent charges. ACTV participants also acquired significantly fewer charges on average in the 1 year after treatment than Duluth/CBT participants.\n\nSome estimates show that as many as 50% of couples who experience IPV engage in some form of reciprocal violence. Nevertheless, most services address offenders and survivors separately. In addition, many couples who have experienced IPV decide to stay together. These couples may present to couples or family therapy. In fact, 37-58% of couples who seek regular outpatient treatment have experienced physical assault in the past year. In these cases, clinicians are faced with the decision as to whether they should accept or refuse to treat these couples. Although the use of conjoint treatment for IPV is controversial as it may present a danger to victims and potentially escalate abuse, it may be useful to others, such as couples experiencing situational couple violence. Scholars and practitioners in the field call for tailoring of interventions to various sub-types of violence and individuals served.\n\nBehavioral couple's therapy (BCT) is cognitive-behavioral approach, typically delivered to outpatients in 15-20 sessions over several months. Research suggests that BCT can be effective in reducing IPV when used to treat co-occurring addictions, which is important work because IPV and substance abuse and misuse frequently co-occur.\n\nDomestic conflict containment program (DCCP) is a highly structured skills-based program whose goal is to teach couples conflict containment skills.\n\nPhysical aggression couples treatment (PACT) is a modification of DCCP, which includes additional psychoeducational components designed to improve relationship quality, including such things as communication skills, fair fighting tactics, and dealing with gender differences, sex, and jealousy.\n\nThe primary goal of domestic violence focused couples treatment (DVFCT) is to end violence with the additional goal of helping couples improve the quality of their relationships. It is designed to be conducted over 18 weeks and can be delivered in either individual or multi-couple group format.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44187334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44187334", "title": "Judicial Complaints Reviewer", "text": "Judicial Complaints Reviewer\n\nThe Judicial Complaints Reviewer is not a Scottish public ombudsman, as the role does not carry ombudsman powers of redress. The JCR is responsible for reviewing the handling of complaints against the judiciary of Scotland by the Judicial Office for Scotland. The post was established in 2011 as a result of the Judiciary and Courts (Scotland) Act 2008. The Reviewer is appointed by the Cabinet Secretary for Justice, with the approval of the Lord President of the Court of Session. The Reviewer's services are open to those who have complained about the conduct of a member of the judiciary, and also to members of the judiciary who have been the subject of a complaint.\n\nThe first Judicial Complaints Reviewer was Moi Ali, 2011-2014 and the second was Gillian Thompson; who was appointed on 1 September 2014. The third reviewer takes up the role on 1st September 2017.\n\nComplaints about the conduct, both within and outwith the courts of Scotland, of judicial officer holders in Scotland are made to the Lord President through the Judicial Office for Scotland. However, the Judicial Office does not consider complaints about judicial decisions which are dealt with through appeals.\n\nThe office of the Judicial Complaints Reviewer was established by Section 30 of the Judiciary and Courts (Scotland) Act 2008 The Reviewer's role is to review how complaints regarding members of the judiciary have been handled by the Judicial Office for Scotland in accordance with the complaint rules laid down by the Lord President. As of May 2017, complaints should be handled in line with Complaints About the Judiciary (Scotland) Rules 2017. She cannot change the outcome of the investigation, overturn a decision, or initiate redress. However, where she finds a fault in the process she passes a referral to the Lord President who then makes decision.\n\nMoi Ali became the first ever JCR on 1 September 2011. She established the office and pushed for greater powers, claiming that the role was \"window-dressing\" and the judicial watchdog had no teeth. She did not seek reappointment after the end of her three-year term, as she was dissatisfied with the powers of the role. Gillian Thompson became the second Judicial Complaints Reviewer on 1 September 2014, and she too did not serve a second term of office.\n"}
{"id": "6050497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6050497", "title": "Kanembu language", "text": "Kanembu language\n\nKanembu is a Nilo-Saharan language spoken in Chad by the Kanembu people. It is closely related to Kanuri.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1268976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1268976", "title": "Karamanlides", "text": "Karamanlides\n\nThe Karamanlides (; ), or simply Karamanlis are a Greek-Orthodox, Turkish-speaking people native to the Karaman and Cappadocia regions of Anatolia. Today, a majority of the population live within Greece, though there is a notable diaspora in Western Europe and North America.\n\nKaramanlides were Greek-Orthodox Christians in Central Anatolia who spoke Turkish as their primary language. The term is geographical, derived from the 13th century Beylik of Karaman. This was the first Turkish kingdom to use Turkish as its official language and originally the term would only refer to the inhabitants of the town of Karaman or from the region of Karaman.\n\nHistorically, the Karamanlides spoke Karamanli Turkish. Its vocabulary drew overwhelmingly from Turkic words with many Greek loan words. The language should not be confused with Cappadocian Greek, which was spoken in the same region during the same timeframe, but is derived from the Greek language. While the official Ottoman Turkish was written in the Arabic script, the Karamanlides used the Greek alphabet for writing its form of Turkish. Such texts are called Karamanlidika (Καραμανλήδικα / Καραμανλήδεια γραφή) or Karamanli Turkish today. Karamanli Turkish had its own literary tradition and produced numerous published works in print in the 19th century, some of them published by Evangelinos Misailidis, by the Anatoli or Misailidis publishing house (Misailidis 1986, p. 134).\n\nKaramanli writers and speakers were expelled from Turkey as part of the Greek-Turkish population exchange of 1923. Some speakers preserved their language in the diaspora. The writing form stopped being used immediately after the Turkish state adopted the Latin alphabet.\n\nA fragment of a manuscript written in Karamanli was also found in the Cairo Geniza.\n\nAcademic disputes over the origins of the Karamanlides have led to the formation of two major theories.\n\nAccording to one theory the Karamanlides descended from (religiously converted) Turkish soldiers (Turcopoles) that Byzantine emperors settled in Anatolia.\n\nAccording to another theory the Karamanlides are the direct descendants of Byzantine Greeks. Despite their adoption of the Turkish language, they maintained their Greek Orthodox faith. Linguists were able to travel through Karamanli-speaking regions of Cappadocia and document the few remaining Greek words that mostly elderly residents could remember.\nAccording to another theory held by İbrahim Tatarlı, the Karamanlides descend from beyliks of Bulgar Turks shifting to another form of Turkic and preserving their Christian religion. A similar theory of Necib Asım holds that Karamanlides descend from beyliks of Orthodox Bulgarians who shifted from Slavic to Turkish. Those theories refer to some states (Anatolian beyliks and khanates), attested frequently as Bulgarian between 1098-1517 and seated in Ermenek, and the Bulgar Dagh mountains. İbrahim Tatarlı claimed that those states consist of Christian Slavicized Bulgars, Turkic-speaking Bulgars, Kipchaks and Cumans from the Asen dynasty, but his claim is considered hypothetical and does not cite any relevant evidence of their Slavic-speaking characteristics. Yet, some populations from Karaman preservеd their written Bulgarian language and Cyrillic script such as those who founded the village of Karamantsi hundreds of years ago, some Karamanlides used Cyrillic and among the Karamanlides a small group Traka-Truka(prejorative τρακατρούκηδες in Greek) spoke a \"mixed Slavic-Turkic idiom\", which was recorded by Yugoslav author Toma Simovski to have been brought from Asia Minor to Greece in 1924.\n\nAlongside the Slavic-Turkic idiom, a mixed Greek-Turkish idiom Cappadocian Greek was spoken in Karaman, which were all smaller communities than the Karamanli Turkish speakers. \n\nIt seems that, although with notable exceptions, the Karamanlides did not manifest the Greek national identity of the time, preferring instead to call themselves \"Rum\", \"Romans\" \"Christians\", or \"Christians of Anatolia\". There were also prominent members of the community, such as Papa Eftim I, who believed that the Karamanlis originally were of Turkish descent. Some Karamanlides were enrolled in Bulgarian schools and had Bulgarian identity.\n\nMany Karamanlides were forced to leave their homes during the 1923 population exchange between Greece and Turkey. Early estimates placed the number of Orthodox Christians expelled from central and southern Anatolia at around 100,000. However, the Karamanlides were numbered at around 400,000 at the time of the exchange.\n\nThe former premier of Greece, named Karamanlis, has his roots in Karaman.\n\nThe distinct culture that developed among the Karamanlides blended elements of Orthodox Christianity with an Ottoman-Turkish flavor that characterized their willingness to accept and immerse themselves in foreign customs. From the 14th to the 19th centuries, they enjoyed an explosion in literary refinement. Karamanli authors were especially productive in philosophy, religious writings, novels, and historical texts. Lyrical poetry in the late 19th century describes their indifference to both Greek and Turkish governments, and the confusion they felt as a Turkish-speaking people with a Greek ethos.\n"}
{"id": "37278553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37278553", "title": "Kingston Bridal Week", "text": "Kingston Bridal Week\n\nKingston Bridal Week is Jamaica’s first and only annual Bridal Week. The event was founded in 2012 by Kibwe McGann, Sean Lyn and Kara-Ann Anderson, and was produced by Intuit Concepts. In the second year, Nicola Barbar of Phoenix printery became an official partner and was added to the directorship. In September 2013, for the second staging of Kingston Bridal Week, and for the first time in Jamaica, Kingston Bridal Week hosted Randy Fenoli, TV star of TLC 's Say Yes To The Dress and Randy to the Rescue and author of\nIt's all About the Dress.\n\nAs part of Kingston Bridal Week's Lifestyle and Honeymoon fashion shows, the event has featured international designers Rebacca Ansah (UK), Kesia Eastwick (Barbados), Cedella Marley (Jamaica), Spokes Apparel, Roger Gary (Guyana), and Lubica (Slovakia).\n\nKingston Bridal Week has hosted three charity events as part of annual bridal week: In 2012 - a charity dinner in partnership with Angels of Love, A Jamaican charity for children was hosted by international recording artist Tami Chynn, sister of Jamaican singer Tessanne Chin; Brides for Haiti, charity dress drive; and Baggage Claim charity movie premiere.\n\nIntuit Concepts is the management and execution company that conceptualized Kingston Bridal Week. The company also produces Wedding Spectacular a two-day annual bridal event held in February which is also hosted in Jamaica.\n\n"}
{"id": "262555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=262555", "title": "Krahn people", "text": "Krahn people\n\nKrahn is an ethnic group of Liberia and Ivory Coast. This group belongs to the Kru language family and its people are sometimes referred to as the Wee, Guéré, Sapo, or Wobe. It is likely that Western contact with the Kru language is the primary reason for the development of these different names. The term Krahn may also be applied to denote the language spoken by this ethnic group.\n\nThe Krahn arrived in the area known as Liberia previously known as the \"Grain Coast\" as part of early sixteenth century migrations from the north-east and what is now the Ivory Coast. This migration occurred due to pressure on local populations resulting from an emigration of Western Sudan tribes after the decline of medieval empires, as well as an increase in regional tribal wars. During this timeframe, the African slave trade was becoming more prominent within Liberia. Although some Kru tribes faced capture by Westerners, it was more common for the Krahn and other coastal peoples in Liberia to serve as local traders, brokering deals within the Western slave market. The Kru were so opposed to slavery within their own tribe members that many committed suicide rather than face enslavement.\n\nDuring the late 1970s Liberia faced a heated civil war in which opposition to the Americo-Liberian and Tolbert government, led to a military coup, organized in part by indigenous tribal members. The culmination of this coup came on April 12, 1980 when Krahn leader, Master Sergeant Samuel Kanyon Doe seized power, becoming the first native leader and Head of State. With a Krahn leader serving as a key political figure, the once disparaged and \"uncivilized\" Krahn were now given a place of honor within Liberia’s governing body. This rise in status led to many Krahn speakers moving from coastal and inland areas to the capital, Monrovia. In time, Doe began showing favoritism to the Krahn, particularly to those from his own tribal group. These measures included appointing members of the Krahn’s ethnic kin in Ivory Coast, known more commonly as the Wee, to the Executive Mansion Guard, as well as taking steps to prevent non-Krahn individuals from reaching key government positions.\n\nBy 1985 Doe’s fierce response to his opposition created a large contingent of “anti-Doe” supporters. In December 1989, exiles and local recruits began organizing military groups, resulting in another civil war, this time against Doe and his Krahn supporters. As this war progressed, the National Patriotic Front of Liberia (NPFL) began attacking Krahn civilians in Nimba and Grand Gedeh Counties, destroying entire communities as they moved through the country. By mid-1990, the war had escalated, prompting foreign intervention. Unfortunately for Doe, this intervention was not to play in his favor, culminating in his kidnapping and execution by opposition forces. Following the removal of the Doe regime, and the continuation of the civil war, Krahn refugees began fleeing from Liberia to Ivory Coast, some taking the Krahn language with them. It was during this time that the sarpo, who are a member of the Krahn Speaking Group, begin to call themselves Sarpo because of fear, but Sarpo is one of the krahn Speaking group.\n\nAlthough Doe was removed from power in 1990, the civil war did not officially reach its end until 1996, at which time Charles Taylor ran for presidency, winning the 1997 general election amidst much controversy. This presidency was not well received by all groups however, and the Krahn were among the ethnic groups targeted by Taylor because of their affiliation with Doe's regime and rebel groups such as ULIMO that were opposed to him. In 1998, Taylor attempted to murder one of his political opponents, the former warlord Roosevelt Johnson, causing clashes in Monrovia during and after which hundreds of Krahn were massacred, and hundreds more fled the country. This event was one of the factors that led to the Second Liberian Civil War's outbreak. In 2003, members of the Krahn tribe founded a rebel group, the Movement for Democracy in Liberia (MODEL), as a means of fighting against Taylor. With the end of the second civil war, the group disbanded as part of the peace agreement.\n\nToday Liberia’s government is far more stable, which has in turn allowed the Krahn to resettle throughout the nation. Present day Krahn are typically found within Nimba, and the Grand Gedeh and Sinoe Counties, as well as Ivory Coast.\n\nThe Krahn in Liberia were originally hunters, farmers, and fishermen, traditionally focusing on rice and cassava production. The land in this region has faced developmental setbacks and as a result, many of the younger Krahn generations have migrated to areas such as Monrovia. The Wee in Ivory Coast also traditionally became hunters, farmers, and fishermen, but they tended to focus more heavily on crops such as \"rice, yams, taro, manioc, maize, and bananas.\" Like the Krahn in Liberia, the Wee traditions of hunting and farming have faced some difficulties, and in more recent years many have instead begun laboring in diamond camps and on rubber plantations.\n\nEarly Krahn political organization was traditionally decentralized in both Liberia and Ivory Coast. The tribes often lacked a central governing power, instead turning to a village \"headman\" who rose to a position of social esteem through skill, hard work, and luck in hunting and farming. These individuals often formed councils consisting of young warriors for protection and village elders to serve as consultants in village affairs. This governing group would broker trades with neighboring tribes, as well as make important decisions for the tribe members. Within these tribal groups, it was not uncommon for ceremonial face masks to serve dual roles in rituals and politics. These masks were often modeled after fearsome animals and were utilized in community mediations. They may also have been a means of implementing social control in the years prior to adoption of Western laws during the colonial period.\n\nMany Krahn believe that objects have spirits or souls (animism). An example of this is seen in several Kru artifacts found in 1979 near Maryland County, Liberia. Although scholars are not certain of their origins and intended use, some sources believe that the Kru saw these objects as living entities typically found in small bodies of water such as rivers and creeks. Called 'tien','nitien' or 'Dwin,' these artifacts would have been viewed as water spirits or 'Gods of water.' Additionally, it is believed that powers associated with these beings included healing, fertility, and the ability to end conflict and create new villages. The Kru also thought that a town or village could gain protection from one of these water guardians if they were caught in the water and carried into town.\n\nAccording to the Wee of Ivory Coast, it is also believed that the natural world is made up of spirits, referred to as “bush spirits.” These spirits are part of the world untouched by man, and the Wee believe that keeping these spirits appeased is vital to the health of the tribe. Whenever new land requires cultivating for fields or expansion, or when tribesmen needed to venture outside the village, it becomes necessary to make offerings to the spirits, with such endeavors being surrounded by an air of danger. It is further believed that the bush spirits take corporeal form in order to interact with the villagers and participate in ceremonies. The Wee feel that the bush spirits can communicate with humans through dreams, often demanding ceremonial masks be created in their honor in either male or female forms. These masks then serve a variety of functions ranging from ritual ceremonies, forms of entertainment, and focal points in moral stories to judicial and political controls. Typically, female masks are viewed as less imposing and more beautiful than male masks and are in turn used more for ritual and entertainment purposes, while the male masks are often more ferocious-looking and serve roles in sociopolitical issues. That said, all Wee masks are believed to deflect sorcery attacks, and many undergo shifts in their primary function during their lifetime.\n\nKrahn is one of the Kru languages which belongs to the Niger–Congo language family. Although many Kru-speaking tribes have adopted English as their second language, recent studies have shown that Kru is still spoken by many Liberians. Within the Kru language there are several subcategories, with Eastern and Western Kru offering the first significant division of tribal language breakdowns. This Kru language chart clearly shows that Krahn falls under the Western Kru, Wee subgroup. Some scholars further denote a difference between Eastern and Western Krahn, with Eastern variations typically spoken in northeast Liberia and Western Krahn spoken throughout Grand Gedeh County and Ivory Coast. As of 1993, there were approximately 47,000 Eastern Krahn speakers within Liberia, with an additional 47,800 Western Krahn speakers in Liberia and 12,200 in Ivory Coast. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "24911712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24911712", "title": "Kutch Gurjar Kshatriya", "text": "Kutch Gurjar Kshatriya\n\nKutch Gurjar Kshatriya (also known as Mistri or Mestri) are a minority Hindu and one of the Socially and Educationally Backward Class community of Gujarat in India, whom claim to be Kshatriyas. They are an artisan community related with Kadia works. Most are employed as laborers under construction contractors They are also known as the Mistri a.k.a. Mistris of Kutch.\n\nThe community is believed to be from Kota and first entered into Saurashtra and founded 36 villages in the area, while others moved further into Kutch. Around 1177–78 AD (VS 1234), a major group migrated to Kutch from Saurashtra under the leadership of Patel Ganga Maru. They settled in the village of Dhaneti. There are several Parias of the community, located near village pond of Dhaneti, standing as memorials of the war that was fought in 1178 AD. The community members still go once every year to offer pooja and their respects to their fore-fathers.\n\nThis group, later, made their distinct identity not only by building historical forts, palaces, temples and architects in Kutch but also all over British India, primarily in the fields of railways and coal mining.\n\nThe Kutch Gurjar Kshatriyas left Dhaneti and went on to establish eighteen villages in Kutch which were granted to them by the King: Anjar, Sinugra, Khambhra, Nagalpar, Khedoi, Madhapar, Hajapar, Kukma, Galpadar, Reha, Vidi, Jambudi, Devaliya, Lovaria, Nagor, Meghpar, Chandiya and Kumbharia.\n\nOver the centuries, they have been known or identified by names like Mistri, Mistry, Mistris of Kutch, Kutchi Contractor, Kadia, Kadia Kshatriyas, Gurjar Kshatriya Kadia, Kumar Gnati, Kutch Gurjar Kshatirya, Kutch Gurjar Kshatriya Samaj, KGK Samaj, Kgk community, etc.\n\nThey are a Hindu community. Some are followers of Swaminarayan and Pranami sect of Hinduism, They are vegetarian in diet and avoid consumption of alcohol. The staple food is khichdi, vegetables, pulses and butter-milk.\n\nThe community consists of clans like Rathod, Chauhan, Yadav, Chawda, Jethwa, Padhiar, Yadav, Chudasama, Parmar, Taunk, Khodiyar, Solanki, Sawaria, Vaghela, Vegad, Varu, Maru, Bhalsod, etc., who enjoy same status. However, most of people prefer to pre-fix Mistri to their name.\n\nThe community are an endogamous community who practice the principle of clan exogamy. Dowry is generally not asked for, neither practice of bride price is there in community. Divorce is generally not encouraged; however, divorce can be claimed in certain cases.\n\nBetrothal ceremony generally precedes marriage, which is held usually within one year of engagement and marriage is observed as per Hindu rites by taking seven circumambulation of fire.\n\nWidow remarriage (\"ghargenu\") is allowed, where the women is usually married outside husband's family.\n\nThe Kutch Gurjar Kshatriyas were master craftsmen, architects and contractors and have played a major role in erection and construction of the majority of forts, palaces and architecture of Kutch. It was because of this they came to be known as Mistri in Kutch.\n\nIt was during 1850 to 1930 AD that the KGK migrated outside Kutch and were involved in the construction of major rail-bridges and the laying down of railway tracks in almost all major rail routes of undivided British India doing the \"Railway Thekedari\" (Railway Contractors also \"Thikadari\") and as Thekedar (or Thikadar) in Irrigation projects and Forest Department and Public Works Department. They have also done major roadway, road bridges, canal works, irrigation dams and barrage work throughout British India from 1850 to 1980. The communities largest contribution is in the building of the early railway lines and bridges throughout British India. Their works in Railway construction span from 1850 to 1980 for more than one and a quarter of century.\n\nThe KGK contributed to the building of docks, dams, barrages and irrigation canals between 1850 and 1980, and they in the eighteenth century had been among the communities who built the first ports of Bombay and Hornby Vellard. Other docks were developed in Bombay during 1870–1895 (Prince's Docks built in 1885 and Victoria Docks built in 1891) in which many Mistris of Kutch and Kadia Kshatriyas of Saurahstra worked.\n\nIn 1883 the Mandvi Port Docks and a bridge over the Rukmavati River at Mandvi were built by Vishram Karman Chawda of Chandiya. It is the longest stone bridge of its kind in India.\n\nIn the regions of British India known as Bengal, Bihar and Orissa, the Kutch Gurjar Kshatriyas pioneered Indian involvement in coal mining from 1894. They broke the previous monopolies held by British and other Europeans, establishing many collieries at locations such as Khas Jharia, Jamadoba, Balihari, Tisra, Katrasgarh, Kailudih, Kusunda, Govindpur, Sijua, Sijhua, Loyabad, Dhansar, Bhuli, Bermo, Mugma, Chasnala-Bokaro, Bugatdih, Putki, Chirkunda, Bhowrah, Sinidih, Kendwadih, and Dumka.\n\nSeth Khora Ramji Chawda of Sinugra was the first Indian to break the British monopoly in the Jharia Coalfields. Natwarlal Devram Jethwa says that \n\nOther Indian communities followed the example of the KGK in the Dhanbad-Jharia-Bokaro fields after the 1930s. These included the Punjabis, Kutchis, Marwaris, Gujaratis, Bengalis and Hindustanis. Encyclopaedia of Bengal, Bihar and Orissa -1920 mentions:- \"Out of 92 collieries belonging to Gujaratis in Jharia Coalfields Area during 1920s - 50 belonged to Mistris of Kutch with Seth Khora Ramji as Head of them all.\" Seth Khora Ramji of Sinugra was also honored by King of Kutch by giving him a \"Paghdi\".\n\nThe majority of the once-prosperous KGK community living in Kutch and Saurashtra today are devoid of agricultural land and have been included in the list of Socially and Educationally Backward Class community in Gujarat. Those who migrated from the state cannot take advantage of this reservation.\n\nKGK community members are found throughout India, notably near to the major rail routes and junctions associated with the work of their forebears. Communities exist in the states of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal.\n\nKGK associations exist today in various Indian states, and there are meetings and events organised at local, state and national level. These include match-making events, called \"Sagpan-Sanmmelan\", and the traditional dispute resolution by elected community elders continues with the \"Panch\". There is an annual gathering in Kutch, their native state and their national President is elected every three years by way of voting.\n\nThey also have a woman's wing called \"Mahila Mandal\" at state and national level. Every three years a woman president is also elected by ladies of the community. The woman's wing works independently and in co-operation with the president of the community. The national level women's body of Kutch Gurjar Kshatriyas is called \"Akhil Bharatiya Kutch Gurjar Kshatriya samaj Mahila Mandal\". The woman president of this wing then appoints her working committee members. The \"Mahila Mandal\" was founded in 1976 and first \"Mahila Mandal\" \"Pramukh\" or President of Women's Wing of Kutch Gurjar Kshatriyas was elected. In 1996 the community elected a woman to be \"Mahasabha Pramukh\", or President of the community.\n\nSimilarly, they also have a youth wing at state and national organizational levels called All India Kutch Gurjar Kshatriya Samaj \"Yuva Mahamandal\". The young generation helps in organizing major national and state level events and the youths also organize a sports event every three years called \"Kutchyad\", taking cue and inspiration from the Asiad of 1982 Asian Games. The event also coincides with Dance, Music and match-making event. \nEvery year a mass-marriage event is also held called \"Samuh-Lagna\" where the marriages of financially weak families or couples are held with blessings and financial co-operation of the whole community. The first such event by the community was held on 10 May 1966, with six marriages at Dhanbad and later on a larger scale in 1972 at Raipur. It continues to be held every year since then at different locations in India.\n\nCommunity members are still carrying forward the religious customs and beliefs embedded in them since many centuries ago and continue to follow Hindu religious customs. They are still followers of different sects of Hinduism.\n\nThe newly wed couple come at least once to bow to their Kuldevi at the temples which are located in the eighteen villages in Kutch founded by their ancestors. The newly weds also go and offer their respects at the \"Parias\" of their \"Satis\" and \"Shurapuras\" located in Kutch.\n\nThere is a custom to offer special prayers and pooja called \"Kar\" to their Kuldevis whenever a boy is born in the family. \n\nOther than being referred to as the Kutch Gurjar Kshatriya, the terms \"KGK Community\" or \"Kgk Samaj\" are more often used acronyms for the community in present-day India at a national level. \"Mistri\", which was mostly used during the last century and before is nowadays only used in Kutch and Gujarat. However, the Other Backward Class Certificate as per the \"Bakshi Panch\" report are given in the name of the Mistri only.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11717048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11717048", "title": "Languages of Albania", "text": "Languages of Albania\n\nAlbania is an ethnically homogeneous country, where the overwhelming majority of the population speaks Albanian, which is also the official language. It has two distinct dialects: Tosk, spoken in the south, and Gheg, spoken in the north. However many Albanians speak Italian, Greek, French, German, English amongst other languages too, due to the high numbers of Albanian diaspora and Albanian communities throughout the Balkans.\n\nAlbania is one of the most polyglot nations in Europe. Many Albanians at home, in the region and around the world speak more than two languages. Italian is widely spoken throughout Albania. Greek, the language of the Greek minority of the south, is also very widespread in that region. Nowadays, knowledge of English is growing very rapidly, especially among the youth. Various languages are spoken by ethnic minorities: Greek, Macedonian, etc.\n\nThe Article 14 of the Albanian Constitution states that \"The official language in the Republic of Albania is Albanian.\" \nAccording to the 2011 population census, 2,765,610, 98.767% of the population declared Albanian as their mother tongue (\"mother tongue is defined as the first or main language spoken at home during childhood\").\n\nStandard Albanian is based in the Tosk dialect, spoken in the south. Gheg is spoken in the north and also by Kosovo Albanians. The traditional border between the two dialects is the Shkumbin River. Although they are somewhat different, they are mutually intelligible. Other notable varieties, all of which are sub-dialects of Tosk, include Cham, Arbereshe spoken in Italy and Arvanitic in Southern Greece.\n\nGreek is the largest minority language of Albania and first largest foreign language. Because the number of Greeks in Albania is disputed, the exact number of native speakers of Greek is unknown. The Greeks of Albania speak a modern southern Greek dialect, known as Northern Epirote Greek. Alongside Albanian loanwords, it retains some archaic forms and words that are no longer used in Standard Modern Greek, as well as in the Greek dialects of southern Epirus. Despite the relatively small distances between the various towns and villages, there exists some dialectal variation, most noticeably in accent. \nIn addition, many Albanians have knowledge of Greek, mainly due to past immigration to Greece. Greek is co-official in numerous municipalities and regions in Southern Albania.\n\nAromanian is the native language for about 100,000 to 200,000 Aromanians of Albania. They mostly live in the southern and central regions of the country. The Aromanians, under the name \"Vlachs\", are a recognized cultural minority in the Albanian law.\n\nAccording to the 1989 census, there were approximately 5,000 Macedonian language-speakers in Albania. Most of these people live in the southeastern part of the country in the Lake Prespa region. Macedonians are an officially recognized minority in the Pustec Municipality. However, only the Macedonians living in Pustec are allowed to declare their nationality and language. Ethnic Macedonian organization claim that 120.000 to 350,000 Macedonians live in Albania. They are politically represented by the \"Alliance of Macedonians for European Integration\", which in the 2011 elections received ~2,500 votes.\n\nAbout 10,000 Romani people live in Albania today. They have preserved the language, despite the lack of education in that language.\n\nSerbo-Croatian is mostly spoken and understood in northern Albania, near the border of former Yugoslavian countries of Serbia and Montenegro. The television phenomenon of Italian also happened to Serbo-Croatian, but to a lesser extent.\n\nThe most-widely foreign languages spoken in Albania are English, Italian and Greek.\n\nA new study carried out by Eurostat, the statistical agency of the European Union, analyzed the demography of the adult population 25-64 of several european countries as of 2016. The results of the Adult Education Survey, released in May 2018, showed that the 39.9 % of the 25-64 years old is able to use at least one foreign language. The main foreign language known is English with 40.0%, followed by Italian with 27.8% and Greek with 22.9 %. The English speakers were mostly young people, the knowledge of Italian is stable in every age group, while there is a decrease of the speakers of Greek in the youngest group. \n\nItalian is by far the best-known foreign language in Albania and used to have official status when the country was a protectorate of Italy. Most Italian-speakers have not learnt the language in classrooms or from books, but rather by watching Italian television. During the late communist regime, Albanians living in the towns along the Adriatic Sea coast had access to Italian television. Many Albanians \"grew skilled at rewiring their TVs to overcome [the] Albanian government's attempt to block Italian channels\". A large number of middle-aged and younger people grew up with the language and know it very well.\n\nAmong the elderly, Italian is also common as the language was used in the educational system in the 1930s, after King Zog released a decree requiring all Albanian schools to teach Italian in 1933.\n\nAlbania also is home to 19,000 ethnic Italians, who have aided the growth of the language in the country.\n\nEnglish is mostly popular among the younger generations of Albanians. Since the 1990s it is the most-taught foreign language in the Albanian educational system. As of 2006, more than 65% of Albanian children could speak fluent or semi-fluent English.\n\nThe language came to Albania in 1921, when the Albanian Vocational School started to teach English with the sponsorship of the American Red Cross. The school operated until 1933. The Albanian Government at the time decided to make English the country's second language. Russian became the major language taught in schools after the Communists took control over the country. After the Soviet-Albanian Split in the 1960s, English came to compete with Russian. A 2006 book by Mimoza Rista-Dema, a Ph.D. in Linguistics at Indiana University, describes the teaching of English during the communist era:\nFrench lycées in Korçë and Gjirokastër operated during the communist era, because long-time leader of Communist Albania, Enver Hoxha studied in the University of Montpellier in France and upon his rise to power allowed their activity. Albania is a member of la Francophonie. Most French-speakers in Albania can be found in these two towns and surrounding areas, but also elsewhere in the country. According to La Francophonie, Albania is home to 300,000 French speakers.\n\nRussian began to be taught in schools and universities in the 1950s, when it was \"lingua franca\" of the Eastern Bloc countries, part of which was Albania. It continued until the Soviet–Albanian split in early 1961. Many who learnt in at the time, have forgotten most of it due to lack of usage.\n\nAfter the ideological controversies with the USSR, Albania and China became closer. A number of Albanians studied in China and learnt Chinese there. After the collapse of communism in Albania in 1991, many young Albanians also traveled to China for education and learned the language.\n\n"}
{"id": "19853112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19853112", "title": "Languages of Burkina Faso", "text": "Languages of Burkina Faso\n\nBurkina Faso is a multilingual country. An estimated 70 languages are spoken there, of which about 66 are indigenous. The Mossi language () is spoken by about 40% of the population, mainly in the central region around the capital, Ouagadougou. French is the official language. English is also widely spoken.\n\nIn the west, Mande languages are widely spoken, the most predominant being Dyula (also spelled Jula or Dioula), others including Bobo, Samo, and Marka. The Fula language (, ) is widespread, particularly in the north. The Gourmanché language is spoken in the east, while the Bissa language is spoken in the south.\n\nEducation for the deaf in Burkina uses American Sign Language, which was introduced by the deaf American missionary Andrew Foster. The Burkina Sign Language is used in Ouagadougou.\n\nThe official language is French, which was introduced when France colonized Burkina Faso in 1919. French is the principal language of administrative, political and judicial institutions, public services, and the press. It is the only language for laws, administration and courts. French is the language of instruction in the nation's schools. However, fewer than 15 percent of the population uses French on a day-to-day basis. Despite this low percentage, there is a high amount of support in keeping French as the language of instruction because it provides children a pathway to social mobility and assures continued economic support for education. In fact, according to a 1998 report, “Burkinabe saw no interest in sending their children to school to learn a language that they already spoke at home”.\n\nFrench is one of 13 languages used on the radio.\n\nThe Mossi language, also known as Móorè, is the most widely spoken language in the country, with 48 percent of Burkinabes being speakers as of 2008. Dyula and Fulfulde are also recognized as national languages. This has caused consternation with speakers of the other languages, who have protested it as an injustice.\n\nThe country's name was taken from words in two of the most widely spoken languages, with ‘Burkina’ meaning ‘men of integrity’ in Mossi and ‘Faso’ meaning ‘father’s house’ in Dyula.\n\nFulfulde is the lingua franca in many parts of Burkina Faso. It is widely spoken in the north and east of the country as a first language, with 8.36 percent of the population able to speak it. Dyula is also a lingua franca and is widely used as a trading language. In 2006, 4.4% of the population were able to speak Dyula.\n\nMost of the languages that are spoken belong to either the Mande or Gur branches. In rural areas of Burkina Faso, one's native language is typically used for common activities. In large towns, most people are multilingual. Although not recognized as a national language, Gourmanché is spoken by 5.51% of the population. Other important minority languages include Bissa, spoken by 2.85%; Bwamu, spoken by 1.91%, Dagara, spoken by 1.76%; and Samo, spoken by 1.66%. Dagara is spoken in the southwestern part of Burkina Faso and borrows heavily from French and, to a lesser degree, English.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2199076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2199076", "title": "Lebanese Canadians", "text": "Lebanese Canadians\n\nLebanese Canadians are Canadians of Lebanese origin. According to the 2011 Census there were 190,275 Canadians who claimed Lebanese ancestry, having an increase compared to those in the 2006 Census, making them by far the largest group of people with Arabic-speaking roots.\n\nLebanese immigration began in 1882.The first Lebanese immigrant to Canada was Abraham Bounadere (Ibrahim Abu Nadir) from Zahlé in Lebanon. He came and settled in Montreal. Because of situations within Lebanon and restrictive Canadian laws these immigrants were 90% Christian. These immigrants were mostly economic migrants seeking greater prosperity in the New World.\n\nIn more recent years this pattern has changed, and large numbers of Lebanese Muslims and Druze have come to Canada. Immigration laws were liberalized after the Second World War, and immigration steadily increased in the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nThe greatest influx of Lebanese was during the Lebanese Civil War (1975-1990), and this period saw a number of Lebanon's wealthiest and best educated move to Canada to flee the violence in their homeland. Canada and Australia were the only western countries to set up special programs to enable Lebanese to more easily emigrate. Canada set up an office in Cyprus to process Lebanese refugees.\n\nMany Lebanese speak French and preferred to settle in francophone Montreal rather than anglophone Toronto and Vancouver, British Columbia. About half the Lebanese-Canadian community is located in and around Montreal, and most Lebanese-Canadian organizations, especially religious ones, are based in that city.\n\nLebanese Canadians account for a larger share of the population of Ottawa than that of any other census metropolitan area across the country, constituting over 2% of the total population of the National Capital Region. Canadians of Lebanese origin also made up more than 1% of the total populations of both Montreal and Halifax, while the figure was close to 1% in both Calgary and Edmonton. In Toronto, people of Lebanese origin made up less than a half a per cent of the total population. There are also substantial Lebanese populations in Vancouver, Windsor, London, Edmonton, Fredericton and Charlottetown.\n\nMedia reported that as many as 50,000 of Lebanese-Canadians were in Lebanon during the summer of 2006, with about half this number permanently residing there. During 2006 Israel-Lebanon conflict the large number of Canadians led rise to a major effort to evacuate them from the war zone. It also led some pundits to accuse some of those holding Canadian citizenship of being \"Canadians of convenience\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3349994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3349994", "title": "List of business terms", "text": "List of business terms\n\nThe following terms are in everyday use in financial regions, such as commercial business and the management of large organisations such as corporations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1604579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1604579", "title": "List of freedom indices", "text": "List of freedom indices\n\nThis article contains a list of freedom indices produced by several non-governmental organizations that publish and maintain assessments of the state of freedom in the world, according to their own various definitions of the term, and rank countries as being free, partly free, or using various measures of freedom, including civil liberties, political rights and economic rights.\n\nThe indices and their origins.\n\nHere is a table of the assessments by three indices, for most countries of the world. For exact rankings rather than assessments, refer to the individual index articles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30408158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30408158", "title": "List of types of waivers", "text": "List of types of waivers\n\nThis is a list of types of Waivers\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5032288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5032288", "title": "Ndogo people", "text": "Ndogo people\n\nThe Ndogo are an ethnic group from the South Sudan, part of the Fertit. \n\nThey have an estimated population of 40,000, scattered around Wau, Raga and Deim Zubier.\n"}
{"id": "35240698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35240698", "title": "Occupy Buffer Zone", "text": "Occupy Buffer Zone\n\nOccupy Buffer Zone (OBZ) was a protest movement that began on October 15, 2011 by Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot activists, in the Ledra/Lokmacı checkpoint, in Nicosia, Cyprus. The movement began with a weekly occupation of the checkpoint, which is located in the buffer zone that divides the island's territory and capital into the self-declared Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and the Republic of Cyprus since the Turkish invasion of Cyprus in 1974. On November 19 of 2011 the occupation of the buffer zone became permanent.\n\nInfluenced by the global Occupy Movement, Occupy Buffer Zone aimed to protest and publicise the problems of the global economic and political system, as well as to raise awareness of how \"the Cyprus Problem is but one of the many symptoms of an unhealthy global system\". The movement emphasised the connection between the development of the Cyprus problem and the economic and political interests associated with the international economic and political status quo.\n\nThe following text is the movement's general statement that was distributed to passers by in the buffer zone.\n\n\"This is an inclusive movement functioning within some principal umbrella concepts for which we initially united, these are:\n\n-The reunification of Cyprus.\n\n-To raise awareness of how the Cyprus Problem is but one of the many symptoms of an unhealthy global system.\n\nIt is important to elaborate on the intended inclusiveness of the last point.\n\nWe have occupied the space of the buffer zone to express with our presence our mutual desire for reunification and to stand in solidarity with the wave of unrest which has come as a response to the failings of the global systemic paradigm. We want to promote understanding of the local problem within this global context and in this way show how the Cyprus Problem is but one of the many symptoms of an unhealthy system. In this way, we have reclaimed the space of the buffer zone to create events (screenings, talks etc.) and media of these events, which relate to the system as a whole and its numerous and diverse consequences.\nOpinions expressed in this manner are not necessarily of the entire group, only the umbrella points of reunification and solidarity with the global movement can be assumed to be.\"\n\nThe movement began on 15 October 2011 with a weekly occupation of the buffer zone in Ledra/Lokmacı street in Nicosia. Greek and Turkish Cypriot activists had gathered in Eleftheria Square in Nicosia as a response to the global call for a protest on the 15th of October. Through discussion they decided to move the occupation from the Eleftheria Square to the buffer zone located in the Ledra/Lokmacı street.\nThe buffer zone was occupied subsequently on the 22nd and the 29th of October and the 5th of November.\nOn the 19th of November activists set up tents and made camp in the buffer zone for the night. The decision was then taken that the occupation would become permanent.\nOn 1 January 2012 the activists further occupied the abandoned buildings that were located in the buffer zone. The buildings have been used by the movement for its cultural and political activities, such as hosting and developing various workshops and the movement's General Assemblies.\nThe United Nations Peacekeeping Force in Cyprus (UNFICYP) asked the activists to leave the buffer zone on 14 January 2012 claiming that the occupation did not meet United Nations' regulation for activities in the buffer zone, but it did not employ any forceful methods for the evacuation of the area.\nAfter the Police raid on 6 April 2012, the movement's activities and organisation began to fade. By June 2012, the occupation of the buffer zone was essentially over.\n\nOn 6 April 2012, a strong police force from the Republic of Cyprus gathered in the area occupied by the activists and raided the occupied buildings at around 10:15pm. The operation included the anti-terrorist department and the anti-drug department of the police force. Policemen, equipped with guns, helmets and batons smashed the door and entered the building. A sequence of screaming and sounds of smashing and breaking followed. The police reported that it made 28 arrests, including 11 minors and that it had confiscated 1 gram of cannabis.\n\nThe police was reported to have used excessive and unjustified violence in the operation. Eyewitnesses reported that the police repeatedly hit a 24-year-old woman, \"causing a massive bump to her forehead, as well as multiple cuts and bruises\". Reports were also made of sexual assault on a 19-year-old woman, the beating of two activists that were arrested in the building, and for unjustified violence on the crowd of activists and passers by that had gathered outside the building.\n\nA demonstration against police brutality and the police raid was organised on 12 April by political student magazine Skapoula, whose members had been participating in the movement and were arrested by the police on 6 April.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4856769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4856769", "title": "Osmani", "text": "Osmani\n\nUsmani or Osmani or Othmani or Uthmani () is a large community (), found mainly in South Asia. The word Usmani or Osman (one and the same thing) is a surname. Osmani are found throughout South Asia, and have spread across Afghanistan, Pakistan, India and Bangladesh.\n\nThe Osmani are a Urdu speaking community, and many are found among the Sindhis of Pakistan. They are of Arab origin and descendants of third Islamic Caliph Usman Dhul Noorayn (famously known as Uthman ibn Affan). The word \"usmani\" derived from Usman Dhul Noorayn, companion, son-in-law of Muhammad and the third caliph of Islam. One of the sub-continent's well known personalities Maulana Shabir Ahmed Usmani (Sheikh ul Islam) belongs to this origin. They claim that they came in India with sufi fakir Khwaja Muinuddin Chisti .\n\nThey claim to have Turk ancestry and are found mainly in North-West India and Pakistan.They include the descendants of Karlugh Turks who came with Taimur in 1398-1399.They live in Hazara region and Kashmir regions of Pakistan.\n\nAle Usman of Bilgram, a historical town in Awadh region in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh are the direct decedents of son-in-law of Muhammad and third Islamic Caliph Usman a through his grand son Abdullah Akbar bin Amr Bin Usman and from maternal side to the fourth Islamic Caliph and son-in-law of Muhammad, Ali through her grand daughter Fatimah Sughra bint Husain. they came to India from a small town of Kazroon (Ghazroon) in the Fars province of modern-day Iran. They first migrated to Herat in Afghanistan and from there they came to India with the army of Mahmood Ghaznavi in eleventh century AD. After conquering Bilgram in 1018 AD Qazi Yusuf Ghazrooni served as the first Qazi of Bilgram appointed by Mahmood Ghaznavi. Ale Usman of Bilgram holds the title of Qazi-ul- Bilgram since that time barring brief interregnum where another esteemed faction of Farshori Sheikhs of Bilgram held the position of Qazi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "595296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=595296", "title": "Pakistani English", "text": "Pakistani English\n\nPakistani English or Paklish is the group of English language varieties spoken and written in Pakistan. It was first so recognised and designated in the 1970s and 1980s. Pakistani English (PE) is slightly different in respect to vocabulary, syntax, accent, spellings of some words and other features.\n\nAlthough British rule in India lasted for almost two hundred years, the areas which lie in what is now Pakistan were amongst the last to be annexed: Sindh in 1843, Punjab (which initially included the North-West Frontier Province) in 1849, and parts of Baluchistan, including Quetta and the outer regions in 1879, while the rest of the Baluchistan region became a princely state within the British Indian Empire. As a result, English had less time to become part of local culture though it did become part of elite culture as it was used in elite schools and in higher education, as in the rest of British India. The colonial policies which made English a marker of elite status and the language of power—being used in such domains of power as the civil service, the officer corps of the armed forces, the higher judiciary, universities, prestigious newspapers, radio and entertainment—was due to British policies and the continuation of these policies by Pakistani governments. In 1947 upon Pakistan's establishment, English became the de facto official language, a position which was formalised in the Constitution of Pakistan of 1973. Together with Urdu, the two languages are concurrently the official languages of the country. English language continues as the language of power and is also the language with the maximum cultural capital of any language used in Pakistan. It remains much in demand in higher education in Pakistan.\n\nPakistani English (PE) shares many similarities with Indian English, but since the independence of Pakistan, there have been some very obvious differences. Rahman argues that PE is an interference variety of English created by the use of the features of Urdu, Punjabi, Pashto, Sindhi and other languages spoken in Pakistan. He further divides PE into Anglicised English, which is very similar to the speech and writing of the speakers of British Standard English (BSE), acrolect PE, which is used by Pakistanis educated in English-medium schools, mesolectal PE, which is used by ordinary, Urdu-educated Pakistanis and basilect PE, which is used by people of little formal education, such as guides and waiters.\n\nWords and expressions of PE have been noted by a number of scholars, including unique idioms and colloquial expressions as well as accents. Foreign companies find accent neutralisation easier in Pakistan than in India. However, like Indian English, Pakistani English has preserved many phrases that are now considered antiquated in Britain.\n\nUrdu and English are Pakistan's official languages. All government documents, many street signs, many shop signs, business contracts and other activities use English. The language of the courts is also English.\n\nEnglish is taught to all school-level Pakistani students, and in many cases the medium of instruction is also in English. Although there are also many schools that teach in the local languages, there is a huge emphasis on English as a second language especially in standardised testing. At college and university level, all instructions are typically in English.\n\nPakistan boasts a large English language press and (more recently) media. All of Pakistan's major dailies are published in or have an edition in English, while DAWN News was a major English Language News Channel, before 15 May 2010 when it switched to its language to Urdu, Express 24/7 was another important English news channel, now defunct. Code-switching (the concurrent use of more than one language, or language variety, in conversation) is common in Pakistan and almost all conversations in whatever language have a significant English component.\nThe language of pleading in all courts of Pakistan is also English.\n\nThe role of English within the complex multilingual society of Pakistan is far from straightforward: it is used across the country by speakers with various degrees of proficiency; the grammar and phraseology may mimic that of the speaker's first language. While Pakistani speakers of English use idioms peculiar to their homeland (often literal translations of words and phrases from their native languages), this is far less common in proficient speakers, and grammar tends to be quite close to that of Standard English but exhibiting some features of American English.\n\nPakistani English phonology follows that of British English. It may be rhotic or non-rhotic. Rahman provides a broad introduction to the phonology of Pakistani English.\n\nPakistani English is heavily influenced by Pakistan's languages as well as the English of other nations. Many words or terms from Urdu, such as 'cummerbund', have entered the global language and are also found in Pakistan. In addition the area which is now Pakistan was home to the largest garrisons of the British Indian Army (such as Rawalpindi and Peshawar) and this, combined with the post-partition influence of the Pakistan Military, has ensured that many military terms have entered the local jargon.\n\nThe type of English taught (and preferred) is British English. The heavy influence and penetration of American culture through television, films and other media has brought in great influences of American English.\n\nPakistani English contains many unique terms, as well as terms which are utilised somewhat differently in Pakistan.. For instance, \"chips\" is used for potato chips as well as for French fries and \"lemon\" is used for both lime and lemon.\n\nWords unique to (i.e. not generally well known outside South Asia) and/or popular in Pakistan include those in the following by no means exhaustive list:\n\nWords which are considered archaic in some varieties of English, but are still in use in Pakistani English:\n\nThe Pakistani numbering system is preferred for digit grouping. When written in words, or when spoken, numbers less than 100,000 are expressed just as they are in Standard English. Numbers including and beyond 100,000 are expressed in a subset of the Pakistani numbering system. Thus, the following scale is used:\n\nLarger numbers are generally expressed as multiples of the above.\n\nOften the cause of undesirable confusion.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25103932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25103932", "title": "Pea soup fog", "text": "Pea soup fog\n\nPea soup fog, or a pea souper, also known as black fog, killer fog or smog is a very thick and often yellowish, greenish, or blackish fog caused by air pollution that contains soot particulates and the poisonous gas sulphur dioxide. This very thick smog occurs in cities and is derived from the smoke given off by the burning of soft coal for home heating and in industrial processes. Smog of this intensity is often lethal to vulnerable people such as the elderly, the very young and those with respiratory problems. The result of these phenomena was commonly known as a London particular or London fog; in a reversal of the idiom, \"London particular\" became the name for a thick pea and ham soup.\n\nFrom as early as the 1200s, air pollution became increasingly prevalent, and a predominant perception in the 13th century was that sea-coal smoke would affect one's health. From the mid-1600s, in U.K. cities, especially London, the incidence of ill-health was attributed to coal smoke from both domestic and industrial chimneys combining with the mists and fogs of the Thames Valley. Luke Howard, a pioneer in urban climate studies, published \"The Climate of London\" in 1818–20, in which he uses the term 'city fog' and describes the heat island effect which concentrated the accumulation of smog over the city.\n\nIn 1880 Francis Albert Rollo Russell, son of the former Prime Minister Lord John Russell, published a leaflet that blamed home hearth, rather than factory, smoke for damaging the city’s important buildings, depriving vegetation of sunlight, and increasing the expense and effort of laundering clothes. Furthermore, he charged the ‘perpetually present’ sulphurous smoke with increasing bronchitis and other respiratory diseases. More than 2,000 Londoners had ‘literally choked to death’, he wrote, on account of ‘a want of carefulness in preventing smoke in our domestic fires’ which emitted coal smoke from ‘more than a million chimneys’ that when combined with the prolonged fogs of late January and early February 1880, fatally aggravated pre-existing lung conditions and was ‘more fatal than the slaughter of many a great battle’.\n\nThe most lethal incidence of this smog in London occurred in 1952 and resulted in the Clean Air Act 1956 and Clean Air Act 1968, both now repealed and consolidated into the Clean Air Act 1993 which were effective in largely removing sulphur dioxide and coal smoke, the causes of pea soup fog, though these have been replaced by less visible pollutants that derive from vehicles in urban areas.\n\nReference to the sources of smog, along with the earliest extant use of \"pea-soup\" as a descriptor, is found in a report by John Sartain published in 1820 on life as a young artist, recounting what it was like to; \"...slink home through a fog as thick and as yellow as the pea-soup of the eating house; return to your painting room [...] having opened your window at going out, to find the stink of the paint rendered worse, if possible, by the entrance of the fog, which, being a compound from the effusions of gas pipes, tan yards, chimneys, dyers, blanket scourers, breweries, sugar bakers, and soap boilers, may easily be imagined not to improve the smell of a painting room!\" \n\nAn 1871 \"New York Times\" article refers to \"London, particularly, where the population are periodically submerged in a fog of the consistency of pea soup...\" The fogs caused large numbers of deaths from respiratory problems.\n\nKing Edward I of England banned the burning of sea-coal by proclamation in London in 1272, after its smoke became a problem. By the 17th century London's pollution had become a serious problem, still due, in particular, to the burning of cheap, readily available sea coal. John Evelyn, advisor to King Charles II, defined the problem in his pamphlet, \"Fumifugium: Or, the Inconvenience of the Aer, and Smoake of London Dissipated\" published in 1661, blaming coal, a \"subterrany fuel\" that had \"a kind of virulent or arsenical vapour arising from it\" for killing many. He proposed the relocation of industry out of the city and the planting of massive gardens of \"odiferous flowers\" to \"tinge the air\" and thus mask the pollution.\n\nThe worst recorded instance was the Great Smog of 1952, when 4,000 deaths were reported in the city over a couple of days, and a subsequent 8,000 related deaths, leading to the passage of the Clean Air Act 1956, which banned the use of coal for domestic fires in some urban areas. The overall death toll from that incident is now believed to be around 12,000.\n\nIn Chapter XXXIV of Thomas Love Peacock's \"Melincourt\" (1817), the Reverend Mr. Portpipe tells his visitors that he has \"good ale and a few bottles of London Particular.\" A footnote by David Garnett, editor of the 1948 edition, explains that this is \"a Madeira wine imported for the London market and hence, from its colour, a London fog.\"\n\nA first mention in fiction of 'pea-soup' as a description of fog appears in 1834; 'On the occasion of which now I am to speak, there was any thing but gaiety and mirth. It was a wretched morning; there fell a mizzling rain through the peas-soup atmosphere of London, which chilled every living thing, while a sort of smoky misty, foggy vapour, hovering over the ground, made \"darkness only visible\"', from Theodore Edward Hook (1834). \"Maxwell a novel\". London R. Bentley, p. 10\n\nA second appears in 1839; \"It was not, therefore, until he had left Italy, that Lord Cheveley felt his utter wretchedness and desolation: and London in December was not calculated to lessen it, as it only presents a pea-soup fog, which renders the necessary and natural process of respiration, almost what Dr. Johnson's idea of fine music ought to be, impossible!\", in Lytton, Rosina Bulwer Lytton Baroness (1839). \"Chevely ; or, The man of honour\". E. Bull, London, Volume 2, page 106.\n\nIn Chapter 3 of Charles Dickens's \"Bleak House\" (1852), when Esther arrives in London, she asks of the person meeting her \"whether there was a great fire anywhere? For the streets were so full of dense brown smoke that scarcely anything was to be seen. 'O, dear no, miss,' he said. 'This is a London particular.' I had never heard of such a thing. 'A fog, miss,' said the young gentleman.\"\n\nThe London satirical journal 'Punch' (1860) outlines some venture capital schemes; \"Besides a plan just set for making champagne out of cucumbers, a scheme has been devised for the extraction of pea-soup from London fog. When the foreigner remembers that our fogs are now so frequent that the clear blue sky in England is never clearly seen, he may form a faint conception of the work which is cut out for this Company of Soup Makers. The fog will daily furnish a lot of raw material, which English ingenuity will soon cook into a soup.\" Various & Lemon, Mark [Editor] 'Facts for Foreigners', \"Punch, or the London Charivari\", Volume XXXVIII, February 18, 1860. p. 71\n\nThe Arthur Conan Doyle \"Sherlock Holmes\" stories describe London fogs, but contrary to popular impression the phrase \"pea-soup\" is not used; \"A Study in Scarlet\" (1887) mentions that \"a dun-coloured veil hung over the house-tops.\"; \"The Adventure of the Bruce-Partington Plans\" (1912) describes \"a dense yellow fog\" that has settled down over London, and later notes \"a greasy, heavy brown swirl still drifting past us and condensing in oily drops on the windowpane\"; while in \"The Sign of Four\" (1890), Holmes soliloquises; \"What else is there to live for? Stand at the window here. Was ever such a dreary, dismal, unprofitable world? See how the yellow fog swirls down the street and drifts across the dun-coloured houses.\", and, later; \"...the day had been a dreary one, and a dense drizzly fog lay low upon the great city. Mud-coloured clouds hung over the muddy streets.\"\n\nIn the phrase \"pea-soup fog,\" the implied comparison may have been to \"yellow\" pea soup: \"...the yellow fog hung so thick and heavy in the streets of London that the lamps were lighted\" (Frances Hodgson Burnett, \"A Little Princess\", 1892); \"The yellow fog that rubs its back upon the window-panes,\" (T. S. Eliot, \"The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock\", 1917); \"London had been reeking in a green-yellow fog\" (Winston Churchill, \"A Traveller in War-Time\", 1918); \"the brown fog of a winter dawn\" (T. S. Eliot, \"The Waste Land\", 1922); \"a faint yellow fog\" (Stella Benson, \"This is the End\"). Inez Haynes Irwin, writing in \"The Californiacs\" (1921), praises what was then the superior quality of California fog, saying it is \"Not distilled from pea soup like the London fogs; moist air-gauzes rather, pearl-touched and glimmering.\"\n\n\"A Foggy Day\", originally titled \"A Foggy Day (In London Town)\", is a song composed by George and Ira Gershwin to set the mood for the 1937 film \"A Damsel in Distress\".\n\nThe fog plays a role in Michael Crichton's 1975 novel \"The Great Train Robbery\" \"On the evening of January 9th, a characteristic London “pea-soup” fog, heavily mixed with soot, blanketed the town. Clean Willy Williams, easing down Tooley Street, one eye to the façade of London Bridge Station, was not sure he liked the fog. It made his movements on the ground less noticeable, but it was so dense that he could not see the second story of the terminus building, and he was worried about access to the roof.\" (p.124).\n\nIn the animated television Christmas feature \"Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer\" (1964), the characters Rudolph, Hermey and Yukon Cornelius are travelling through a thick fog when the following exchange takes place: Yukon Cornelius: \"This fog's as thick as peanut butter!\" Hermey: \"You mean pea soup.\" Yukon Cornelius: \"You eat what you like, and I'll eat what I like!\"\n\nThe second chapter of the book \"The Woman in Black\" (1983) by Susan Hill is titled \"A London Particular\" and mentions the thick, dense fog of London, which Arthur Kipps witnesses on his journey to work at his solicitors' office.\n\nSections of London Below in Neil Gaiman's 1996 novel \"Neverwhere\" are still affected by \"pea soupers\", remnants of the thick fog in London's past that got trapped in London Below and remained.\n\nIn the book \"Un Lun Dun\" (2007) by China Miéville, the London Fog takes on the role of villain: the \"Smog\" of UnLondon. The Clean Air Act is misheard as the \"Klinneract\".\n\nIn \"Act of God\", Season 1, Episode 4 of the Netflix series \"The Crown\", the events of the 1952 fog-deaths and their political ramifications take up the whole of the episode.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31045116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31045116", "title": "Social issues in the Democratic Republic of Congo", "text": "Social issues in the Democratic Republic of Congo\n\n\"The Democratic Republic of the Congo\" is a country located in central Africa.\n\nThe Democratic Republic of Congo(DRC) has one of the highest incidences of poverty in the world. And unfortunately it is still going on. DRC is #1 out of 11 top poor countries in the world (2014) At a rate of 71.34, its incidence of poverty is “extremely high”, even in comparison with other central African countries. However, this poverty is not evenly distributed. The IMF estimates that poverty is more prevalent in rural areas (75.72%) than in urban areas (61.49%), while the provinces of Équateur, Bandundu and Sud-Kivu have a poverty incidence of over 85% compared to Kinshasa’s 42%.\n\nThe DRC’s high incidence of poverty is partly attributable to the ethnic conflict that spilled over from neighboring Rwanda and an ongoing civil war between government troops and rebel groups in Eastern Congo. The sustained levels of violence have caused massive infrastructural damage, internal displacement, and loss of property and lives. In 2007, the International Rescue Committee estimated that 5.4 million people had died from the war and that another 1,250 continue to die each day from war-related causes.\n\nIn order to reduce the levels of poverty in the country, the government embarked on IMF recommended reforms to improve its macroeconomic environment, initiate policies to support economic growth as well as improve its provision of basic social services. While the results have been mixed, the IMF notes in its 2010 report that Congo’s economic governance has improved, over 22,000 km of roads have been completed and “significant progress” have been made in increasing primary school enrollment from 64.1% in 2004 to 84.3% in 2008 and reducing infant mortality.\n\nSexual violence has characterised much of the violence perpetuated in Congo. Used as a tactic of war, the daily violations of women and children by armed groups have created a climate of fear and a reputation for the DRC as world’s “worst place to be a woman or a child”. Women from ages “six to eighty” have become victims and one statistic suggests that over 200,000 women may have been victimized over the past decade, while another notes that in some regions, as many as 40 women are raped every day.\n\nHowever, despite the massive scale of violence against women committed, the level of assistance that victims can expect in the form of medical care or post-traumatic counseling service is minimal to the point of non-existence, especially if one considers that only three practicing gynecologists serve North Kivu, a province of over 800,000 people. Most of the rape shelters in the DRC are operated by foreign or international non-governmental organizations. But despite this intervention by the international community, supply has been insufficient to meet demand.\n\nIn addition to psychological and physical trauma, rape victims bear socio-economic costs. For instance, the families of raped women are only paid a dowry price of two goats, if at all, as compared to the typical price of 20 goats. Consequently, raped women are often abandoned by their husbands whilst raped girls have difficulty marrying. Thus, in the context of the DRC’s patriarchal society, where women are dependent on men – first their fathers and later husbands – for economic support, their status as rape victims inevitably affects their economic well-being.\n"}
{"id": "26860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26860", "title": "Syntax", "text": "Syntax\n\nIn linguistics, syntax () is the set of rules, principles, and processes that govern the structure of sentences in a given language, usually including word order. The term \"syntax\" is also used to refer to the study of such principles and processes. The goal of many syntacticians is to discover the syntactic rules common to all languages.\n\nIn mathematics, \"syntax\" refers to the rules governing the notation of mathematical systems, such as formal languages used in logic. (See logical syntax.)\n\nThe word \"syntax\" comes from Ancient Greek: \"coordination\", which consists of \"syn\", \"together\", and \"táxis\", \"an ordering\".\n\nA basic feature of a language's syntax is the sequence in which the subject (S), verb (V), and object (O) usually appear in sentences. Over 85% of languages usually place the subject first, either in the sequence SVO or the sequence SOV. The other possible sequences are VSO, VOS, OVS, and OSV, the last three of which are rare.\n\nWorks on grammar were written long before modern syntax came about; in Ancient India, the \"Aṣṭādhyāyī\" of Pāṇini (c. 4th century BC) is often cited as an example of a premodern work that approaches the sophistication of a modern syntactic theory. In the West, the school of thought that came to be known as \"traditional grammar\" began with the work of Dionysius Thrax.\n\nFor centuries, work in syntax was dominated by a framework known as , first expounded in 1660 by Antoine Arnauld in a book of the same title. This system took as its basic premise the assumption that language is a direct reflection of thought processes and therefore there is a single, most natural way to express a thought.\n\nHowever, in the 19th century, with the development of historical-comparative linguistics, linguists began to realize the sheer diversity of human language and to question fundamental assumptions about the relationship between language and logic. It became apparent that there was no such thing as the most natural way to express a thought, and therefore logic could no longer be relied upon as a basis for studying the structure of language.\n\nThe Port-Royal grammar modeled the study of syntax upon that of logic. (Indeed, large parts of the Port-Royal Logic were copied or adapted from the \"Grammaire générale\".) Syntactic categories were identified with logical ones, and all sentences were analyzed in terms of \"subject – copula – predicate\". Initially, this view was adopted even by the early comparative linguists such as Franz Bopp.\n\nThe central role of syntax within theoretical linguistics became clear only in the 20th century, which could reasonably be called the \"century of syntactic theory\" as far as linguistics is concerned. (For a detailed and critical survey of the history of syntax in the last two centuries, see the monumental work by Giorgio Graffi (2001).)\n\nThere are a number of theoretical approaches to the discipline of syntax. One school of thought, founded in the works of Derek Bickerton, sees syntax as a branch of biology, since it conceives of syntax as the study of linguistic knowledge as embodied in the human mind. Other linguists (e.g., Gerald Gazdar) take a more Platonistic view, since they regard syntax to be the study of an abstract formal system. Yet others (e.g., Joseph Greenberg) consider syntax a taxonomical device to reach broad generalizations across languages.\n\nThe hypothesis of generative grammar is that language is a structure of the human mind. The goal of generative grammar is to make a complete model of this inner language (known as \"i-language\"). This model could be used to describe all human language and to predict the grammaticality of any given utterance (that is, to predict whether the utterance would sound correct to native speakers of the language). This approach to language was pioneered by Noam Chomsky. Most generative theories (although not all of them) assume that syntax is based upon the constituent structure of sentences. Generative grammars are among the theories that focus primarily on the form of a sentence, rather than its communicative function.\n\nAmong the many generative theories of linguistics, the Chomskyan theories are:\n\nOther theories that find their origin in the generative paradigm are:\n\nDependency grammar is an approach to sentence structure where syntactic units are arranged according to the dependency relation, as opposed to the constituency relation of phrase structure grammars. Dependencies are directed links between words. The (finite) verb is seen as the root of all clause structure and all the other words in the clause are either directly or indirectly dependent on this root. Some prominent dependency-based theories of syntax are:\n\n\nLucien Tesnière (1893–1954) is widely seen as the father of modern dependency-based theories of syntax and grammar. He argued vehemently against the binary division of the clause into subject and predicate that is associated with the grammars of his day (S → NP VP) and which remains at the core of most phrase structure grammars. In the place of this division, he positioned the verb as the root of all clause structure.\n\nCategorial grammar is an approach that attributes the syntactic structure not to rules of grammar, but to the properties of the syntactic categories themselves. For example, rather than asserting that sentences are constructed by a rule that combines a noun phrase (NP) and a verb phrase (VP) (e.g., the phrase structure rule S → NP VP), in categorial grammar, such principles are embedded in the category of the head word itself. So the syntactic category for an intransitive verb is a complex formula representing the fact that the verb acts as a function word requiring an NP as an input and produces a sentence level structure as an output. This complex category is notated as (NP\\S) instead of V. NP\\S is read as \"a category that searches to the left (indicated by \\) for an NP (the element on the left) and outputs a sentence (the element on the right).\" The category of transitive verb is defined as an element that requires two NPs (its subject and its direct object) to form a sentence. This is notated as (NP/(NP\\S)) which means \"a category that searches to the right (indicated by /) for an NP (the object), and generates a function (equivalent to the VP) which is (NP\\S), which in turn represents a function that searches to the left for an NP and produces a sentence.\"\n\nTree-adjoining grammar is a categorial grammar that adds in partial tree structures to the categories.\n\nTheoretical approaches to syntax that are based upon probability theory are known as stochastic grammars. One common implementation of such an approach makes use of a neural network or connectionism.\n\nFunctionalist theories, although focused upon form, are driven by explanation based upon the function of a sentence (i.e., its communicative function). Some typical functionalist theories include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2480746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2480746", "title": "Taralily", "text": "Taralily\n\nTaralily is an annual rice harvest festival held on the island of Madagascar.\n"}
{"id": "25695287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25695287", "title": "Territorial nationalism", "text": "Territorial nationalism\n\nTerritorial nationalism describes a form of nationalism based on the belief that all inhabitants of a particular territory should share a common national identity, regardless of their ethnic, linguistic, religious, cultural and other differences. Depending on the political or administrative status of a particular territory, \"territorial nationalism\" can be manifested on two basic levels, as territorial nationalism of distinctive sovereign states, or territorial nationalism of distinctive sub-sovereign regions (\"regional nationalism\").\n\nWithin sovereign nation states, territorial nationalism is manifested as a belief that all inhabitants of that nation owe allegiance to their country of birth or adoption. According to territorial nationalism every individual must belong to a nation, but can choose which one to join. A sacred quality is sought in this nation and in the popular memories it evokes. Citizenship is idealized by a territorial nationalist. A criterion of a territorial nationalism is the establishment of a mass, public culture based on common values and traditions of the population. Legal equality is essential for territorial nationalism.\n\nBecause citizenship rather than ethnicity is idealized by territorial nationalism, it is argued by Athena S. Leoussi and Anthony D. Smith (in 2001) that the French Revolution was a territorial nationalistic uprising.\n\nTerritorial nationalism is also connected to the concepts of \"Lebensraum\", forced expulsion, ethnic cleansing and sometimes even genocide when one nation claims a certain imaginary territory and wants to get rid of other nations living on it. These territorial aspirations are part of the goal of an ethnically pure nation-state. This also sometimes leads to irredentism, since some nationalists demand that the state and nation are incomplete if an entire nation is not included into one single state, and thus aims to include members of its nations from a neighboring country. This thus often leads to ethnic conflict. Thomas Ambrosio argues: \"If the leader of state A sends material support and/or actual troops into state B in the hopes of detaching state A's diaspora from state B, this would clearly be an indication of ethno-territorial nationalism\".\n\nIn Western Europe national identity tends to be more based on where a person is born than in Central and Eastern Europe. Scholars have argued this might be explained by the fact that states in the later two emerged from imperial states. The communist regimes in the Eastern Bloc actively suppressed what they described as \"bourgeois nationalism\" and considered nationalism a bourgeois ideology. In the Soviet Union this led to Russification and other attempts to replace the other cultures of the Soviet Union with the Russian culture, even while, at the same time the Soviet Union promoted certain forms of nationalism that it considered compatible with Soviet interests. Yugoslavia was different from the other European Communist states, where Yugoslavism was promoted.\n\nAlthough territorial nationalism is in contrast with the universality of Islam, especially Egypt and Tunisia had territorial nationalistic policies after gaining independence. This was gradually replaced by Pan-Arabism in the 1950s, but Pan-Arabism declined by the mid-1970s.\n\nIn Africa, the prime examples of territorial nationalism are the overlapping irredentist concepts of Greater Morocco and Greater Mauritania. While Mauritania has since relinquished any claims to territories outside its internationally recognized borders, Morocco continues to occupy lands south of Morocco, referred to as its \"Southern Provinces\".\n\nJust as in Western Europe, national identity tends to be more based on where a person is born than ethnicity.\n\n"}
{"id": "33346808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33346808", "title": "Topoke people", "text": "Topoke people\n\nThe Topoke people (sometimes incorrectly called \"Eso people\") are an ethnic group that live in the Isangi Territory south of the Congo River, downstream from Kisangani in Tshopo District of the Democratic Republic of the Congo.\nThey speak the Poke language (also called Puki, Tofoke, Topoke or Tovoke), in the Soko–Kele languages group of Bantu languages.\n\nThe Topoke are one of the three main ethnic groups in the Isangi territory. The other two are the Lokele and Turumbu.\nTheir main territory is between 0° and 2° South, 23° and 25° East. The heart of the territory is in the angle formed by the Congo and Lomami rivers. Ilambi is one of their communities.\nAnother group of Topoke people is located in the Yalikandja-Yanonge sector.\nThis group, commonly known as the \"Topoke of Likolo\" is due to population movements caused by the penetration of Arab slavers into the region.\n\nThe Topoke may have originated to the north of the Congo River, in the Ubangi-Uele basin. They would have abandoned this territory when threatened by the Baboa and Zande people. During their march to the south, they would have first settled on the right bank of the Congo River around the lower Aruwimi. From there they crossed the river to settle in their current territory, having driven the original Bangando and Bambole inhabitants further south.\nThere are cultural affinities between the Topoke and the Mongandu and Bambole peoples.\n\nAccording to the 1984 Census, the Topoke accounted for 52.38% (128,613 out of 245,548 total inhabitants) of the population of the Isangi area.\n\nMusic and dance played important roles in Topoke culture, and music in particular reached a high level of sophistication.\nThe Topoke people had a long tradition of large regional markets, where purchases could be made on credit or by using iron javelins as currency.\nNon-payment of debts periodically led to fighting, in which the javelins were used as weapons.\nThe lances were called \"ndoa\" by some Topoke, the Lokele word for marriage.\nThirty of them would buy a male slave, while forty or more would be needed for a female.\nThe Topoke were polygynous, and it was common for an important visitor to be offered female companionship as well as food and shelter. This practice persisted well into the colonial era.\nHowever, sometimes sexual abuse of Topoke women by colonial administrators led to retaliation such as poisoning attempts by their husbands.\n\nThe Lomami Company was formed in 1898 and in 1899 started forcing the local people to harvest rubber.\nIn 1905 two white officers of the Company were killed by warriors of Yaboila.\nMr. Pimpurnaux, former District Commissioner of Aruwimi, led punitive expeditions.\nOne of the Topoke men accused of the murder was hung at Basoko in November 1905.\nSome Topoke families in the Mongo block at Bondombe, in the Tshuapa basin on the equator, are descended from Topoke who fled the 1905 expeditions.\nResistance to work as rubber harvesters was widespread, with the men retreating to hiding places in the marshes to avoid being forcibly recruited for work that they equated with slavery during the period of Arab occupation.\n\nThe Topoke were relatively isolated from missionary activity and wage earning until the 1930s.\nAfter World War II they began to move to Kisangani to work as unskilled laborers, but were at a disadvantage compared to more established urban groups. However, by 1975 many had become businessmen, intellectuals and university students.\n\n"}
{"id": "179179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=179179", "title": "Traci Lords", "text": "Traci Lords\n\nTraci Elizabeth Lords (born Nora Louise Kuzma; May 7, 1968) is an American actress, singer, model, writer, producer, and director. During the mid 1980s, she was one of the most sought-after pornographic actresses in the adult entertainment industry. When law enforcement discovered that pornographers were distributing and selling images and films taken of her when she was a minor, it led to prosecutions and court cases that changed the pornography industry in the United States, in addition to bans on all but one of her adult films.\n\nAfter her departure from pornography at age eighteen, Lords enrolled at the Lee Strasberg Theater Institute where she studied method acting with the intention of becoming a mainstream actress. She made her screen debut at age 19 in a leading role in the 1988 remake of the 1957 science fiction film \"Not of This Earth\". Lords followed with the role of Wanda Woodward in John Waters' teen comedy, \"Cry-Baby\" (1990). Her other acting credits include the television series \"MacGyver\", \"Married... with Children\", \"Tales from the Crypt\", \"Roseanne\", \"Melrose Place\", \"Profiler\", \"First Wave\", \"Gilmore Girls\" and \"Will & Grace\". She also appeared in films such as \"Skinner\" (1993)\", Virtuosity\" (1995), \"Blade\" (1998), \"Zack and Miri Make a Porno\" (2008) and most recently \"Excision\" (2012), which earned her a Fangoria Chainsaw Award for Best Supporting Actress as well as a Fright Meter Award and a CinEuphoria Award.\n\nLords also pursued music in addition to her film career. After her song \"Love Never Dies\" was featured on the soundtrack to the film \"Pet Sematary Two\" (1992), she was signed to Radioactive Records and subsequently released her debut studio album, \"1000 Fires\" (1995) to generally positive reviews. Despite the poor sales of the album, the lead single \"Control\" had moderate commercial success. It peaked at number two on the \"Billboard\" Hot Dance Club Songs chart and was included on the soundtrack to the film \"Mortal Kombat\" (1995), which was eventually certified double platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). In 2003, Lords published her autobiography, \"\", which received positive reviews from critics and debuted at number 31 on \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list. She is currently starring in the popular comedy series Swedish Dicks on Pop. The hit comedy also stars Peter Stormare and Keanu Reeves.\n\nLords was born Nora Louise Kuzma on May 7, 1968, in Steubenville, Ohio, to Louis and Patricia Kuzma. Her father's parents were Jewish immigrants from Ukraine, while her mother was of Irish ancestry. Louis was employed as a steelworker. Kuzma has one elder sister, Lorraine, and two younger sisters, Rachel and Grace. Her parents divorced when she was seven years old and Kuzma moved with her mother and three sisters to her great-grandmother's house. Following their divorce, her father got partial custody. Around that same time, her mother enrolled at Ohio University and landed a part-time job.\n\nWhen she was twelve, Kuzma moved with her mother and sisters to Redondo Beach, California, along with her mother's new boyfriend. She didn't see her father for many years after. In September 1982, she began attending the Redondo Union High School in Redondo Beach, California. During her early school years, Kuzma developed a rebellious attitude. She was angry at her mother and found a father figure in her mother's boyfriend. Roger Hayes, as she calls him in her , was a drug abuser and molested Kuzma in her sleep. After her mother broke up with him due to his drug use, she began dating his friend. Kuzma refused to follow them to a new place and was left with her older sister Lorraine. Her mother and two younger sisters eventually found a new apartment.\n\nAt age 13, Kuzma became pregnant by her high school boyfriend. Afraid of her mother's reaction, she went to Hayes for help. He arranged for her to have an abortion without her mother's knowledge. Looking for a job to get some money, she was introduced to his friend and started working for her as a babysitter. The woman offered to improve Kuzma's job opportunities by helping her get a fake driver's license. She provided Kuzma with a new birth certificate on condition that if she were ever caught she would say that she had stolen the phony identification. Kuzma now had a new driver's license with the name Kristie Elizabeth Nussman that stated she was 22 rather than 15 years old. She was now able to line up a few job interviews. In February 1984, Kuzma answered a newspaper advertisement for Jim South's World Modeling Talent Agency. Posing as her stepfather, Hayes drove her to the agency. After signing a contract, she began working as a nude model and appeared in magazines such as \"Velvet\", \"Juggs\", and \"Club\". During August, when she was selected to model for \"Penthouse\" magazine's 15th-anniversary issue, Kuzma was asked to choose a stage name. She chose Traci—one of the popular names she had longed for growing up—and Lords, after the actor Jack Lord, since she was a fan of the television series \"Hawaii Five-O\", in which he portrayed the character of Steve McGarrett. Some of her schoolmates recognized her in the \"Velvet\" magazine pictorial. Lords subsequently quit high school at age 15 and entered the sex industry, where formal education was irrelevant. The September 1984 issue, which featured Lords in a nude centerfold – she earned $5,000 for the shoot – became the best-selling issue in the history of \"Penthouse\", partly because it also featured a nude pictorial of Vanessa Williams (appearing with George Burns on the cover photograph), who had won the Miss America Pageant the previous year. Lords' article stated that she was 22 years of age, was a virgin until nineteen, and had studied interior design at El Camino College.\n\nLords made the first of her many illegal movies during October 1984, when she appeared in \"What Gets Me Hot!\" alongside Tom Byron, who later became her boyfriend off-screen. She first appeared only in a non-sex role but was later replaced with a hardcore scene. In her next movie, \"Those Young Girls\", she appeared in a sex role alongside Harry Reems and Ginger Lynn. After appearing at age 16 with John Leslie (an actor 23 years her senior) in the porno parody of the movie \"Splash\", \"Talk Dirty to Me Part III\" (which won the AVN Award for the best movie), Lords was hailed as the \"Princess of Porn\" (she had appeared in a torrid sex scene with Leslie at the end of the film). She became one of the highest-paid porn actresses of that time, earning more than $1,000 a day. Besides her work in porn, she also appeared in the music video for \"Gimme Gimme Good Lovin'\" by the heavy metal band Helix. Lords continued making more movies until the autumn of 1985 when she tried to quit the industry at age 17 (she returned a few months later). Afterward, she met Stuart Dell, who became her boyfriend, manager, and business partner. They formed the Traci Lords Company. Dell and Lords made a distribution deal with Sy Adler, an industry veteran who ran Vantage International, that they would produce three movies for the company. During March, the first TLC feature, \"Traci Takes Tokyo\", was released. The second, \"Beverly Hills Copulator\", was released afterward, and the third movie, \"Screamer\", (Eddie Dzial) was shelved.\n\nDuring late May 1986 (around three weeks after Lords' 18th birthday), authorities discovered she had been underage when she appeared in the porn movies. She had lied to law enforcement, photographers, producers, directors, co-workers, and the general public for two years. The owners of her movie agency and X-Citement Video, Inc. were arrested. (See \"United States v. X-Citement Video\".) She was taken into protective custody and hired high-profile lawyer Leslie Abramson. On July 10, district attorney's investigators searched Lords' Redondo Beach home as well as the Sun Valley offices of Vantage International Productions (a major producer of adult movies) and the Sherman Oaks offices of modeling agent Jim South. South and other industry officials said that Lords, who was seeking employment, provided a California driver's license, a U.S. passport, and a birth certificate, which stated that her name was Kristie Nussman and gave a birth date of November 17, 1962. Leslie Jay, a spokeswoman for\" Penthouse\" publisher Bob Guccione, also said Lords showed identification indicating that she was older than 18 before the illicit photos for the September 1984 issue were taken (she was actually fifteen years of age in the photographs). When investigators used Lords' fake birth certificate and fake state identification cards to locate the real Kristie Nussman, Nussman said that her birth certificate had been stolen a few years earlier and that an impostor had apparently forged her name on official forms. Two adults who knew Lords, but who requested anonymity, said they saw her picture in the adult magazine \"Velvet\" during July 1984, and telephoned the district attorney's office to inform authorities that she was underage, but that an investigator told them, \"There isn't anything we can do about it.\"\n\nOn July 17, 1986, video rental shops and adult movie theaters in the USA were ordered to withdraw from their shelves all hardcore material featuring Lords, because the videos were classified as child pornography. John Weston, attorney of the Adult Film Association of America, said distributors should withdraw any movie made before May 1986, featuring Lords \"in sexual conduct, no matter how briefly\". The withdrawal of Lords' movies from the market cost the industry millions of dollars. Government prosecutors declared Lords was a victim of a manipulative industry, maintaining that she was drugged and made to do non-consensual acts. Industry insiders, including Ron Jeremy, Tom Byron, Peter North, and Ginger Lynn said they never saw her use drugs and that she was always fully aware of her actions. While most of her movies were permanently removed from distribution in the United States, several were re-edited to remove Lords' scenes entirely (such as \"Kinky Business\" and \"New Wave Hookers\"), or in a few cases, had new footage filmed with a different actress playing her part (as in \"Talk Dirty to Me Part III\"). The only movie legally available in the United States was \"Traci, I Love You\", filmed in Cannes, France. only two days after her 18th birthday. She sold her rights to \"Traci, I Love You\" during early 1987 for over $100,000. This action resulted in claims that she herself had tipped off the authorities to gain immunity from prosecution while being the only one to profit from the movie. Lords denies this notion in her autobiography and says she was reluctant to sell the rights, since at that time she was trying to become a mainstream actress, and wanted no older movies still available. \"Traci, I Love You\" was the last porn film that featured Traci Lords. Lords was offered enormous sums of money to continue in porn, but she declined the requests.\n\nAfter spending several months in therapy, Lords decided to concentrate on acting. She enrolled at the Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute, where she studied method acting for three months. After leaving the school, Lords placed an advertisement in The Hollywood Reporter looking for representation. She was contacted by Fred Westheimer and although the agency declined to officially represent her, he decided to send her out on a few auditions. As a result, she was offered a guest role in an episode of the television series \"Wiseguy\". Shortly afterwards, she met the director Jim Wynorski, who was directing the remake of Roger Corman's 1957 sci-fi classic \"Not of This Earth\". He immediately cast Lords into the lead role of Nadine Story, and \"Not of This Earth\" (1988) became her first mainstream film debut since her departure from the adult film industry. Although the film failed at the box office, it did well in video sales, and, based on that success, Lords was offered to appear in Wynorski's next film, \"The Haunting of Morella\" (1989). However, Lords turned down the offer due to the requirement of having a nude scene, since she was trying to establish herself as a serious actress. She also signed with a modeling agency under her birth name Nora Kuzma and appeared on two covers of Joe Weider's magazine \"Muscle & Fitness\". Around that time, Lords became a spokesperson for Children of the Night, an organization for runaways and abused children, and was planning to release a book titled \"Out of the Blue: The Traci Lords Story\".\n\nIn November 1988, Lords enrolled in another acting class and again began looking for an agent. In December, she mass-mailed her resume to various agents and arranged a meeting with Don Gerler. Lords auditioned for the part of Breathless Mahoney in the film \"Dick Tracy\" (1990), but the role went to Madonna. In March 1989, John Waters auditioned her for his teenage comedy musical \"Cry-Baby\" (1990). She won the role and appeared in the film alongside Johnny Depp and Ricki Lake. The film was a critical and commercial success, and her portrayal of the rebellious teenager Wanda Woodward established her as a legitimate actress. On the set of the film, she met the property master Brook Yeaton, whom she began dating. The couple married in September 1990 in Baltimore, Maryland. In June 1990, the exercise video \"Warm up with Traci Lords\" was released. Directed and produced by her former boyfriend and business partner Stewart Dell, the video had been filmed in early 1988. As Lords wrote in her autobiography, she was unsatisfied with the final version of the video. An extended version was reissued in 1993 under the title \"Traci Lords: Advanced Jazzthetics\".\n\nIn 1991, Lords starred in the thriller \"Raw Nerve\" and the action crime film \"A Time to Die\". Lords appeared in such popular TV shows as Roseanne, Married with Children, MCGuyer and Hercules. She continued modeling and walked the runway for fashion designers such as Janet Howard and Thierry Mugler.\n\nDuring 1992, Lords decided to emphasize her career as a recording artist. She first got signed to a development deal with Capitol Records. After meeting with Rodney Bingenheimer at a birthday party, she was recommended to Jeff Jacklin, who hired her to record the song \"Love Never Dies\" for the movie \"Pet Sematary Two\" (1992). The producer of the soundtrack, Gary Kurfirst, signed Lords to his company Radioactive Records. She was later featured on the songs \"Little Baby Nothing\" by Manic Street Preachers and \"Somebody to Love\" by Ramones. During 1993, Lords was cast in the television adaptation of Stephen King's novel \"The Tommyknockers\".\n\nDuring the spring of 1994, Lords began working on her debut album. The company arranged her to fly to London and meet with producer Tom Bailey. After finishing her recording with Bailey, Lords was introduced to producer Ben Watkins of Juno Reactor with whom she recorded more techno-influenced songs. She later met Mike Edwards, the main singer of the band Jesus Jones. Around the same time, Lords was cast in the television series \"Roseanne\", appearing in three episodes. During January 1995, Lords appeared in four episodes of the television series \"Melrose Place\", where she played the part of Rikki Abbott. Her debut studio album, \"1000 Fires\", was released on February 28, 1995. It received generally positive reviews and the lead single \"Control\" peaked at number two on the \"Billboard\" Hot Dance Club Songs. An instrumental version of \"Control\" was remixed and released on the soundtrack to \"Mortal Kombat\" (1995), which was certified double platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). The album's second single, \"Fallen Angel\", was also successful in charts, peaking at number eleven on Hot Dance Club Songs. The Paul Oakenfold remix of the song was included on the soundtrack of the movie \"Virtuosity\" (1995), in which Lords had a cameo appearance. After the release of the album, Lords embarked on a small tour performing as a DJ, mostly in Miami nightclubs. On August 12, 1995, she was the opening act of the Lollapalooza after-party, Enit Festival, alongside Moby, Sven Väth, DJ Keoki and Single Cell Orchestra.\n\nBy the end of 1995, Lords divorced her husband of five years, Brook Yeaton. In 1996, she appeared in a commercial for GUESS with Juliette Lewis.\n\nIn 1997, Lords appeared in a small part in the Gregg Araki film \"Nowhere\", and starred in the drama thriller \"Stir\". She also guest starred on television series \"Nash Bridges\" and \"Viper\". In November, she became a recurring cast member in the second season of the crime television series \"Profiler\". She played a felon, Sharon Lesher, who is manipulated by a serial killer Jack-of-All-Trades and eventually becomes his partner in crime Jill-of-All-Trades. In 1998, Lords had a supporting role in the crime thriller \"Boogie Boy\" and starred in the drama \"Extramarital\". She also appeared in the action horror film \"Blade\" (1998) in which she played the vampire seductress Racquel. Lords was eventually approached to appear in the sequel \"Blade II\" (2002) portraying Racquel's twin sister Valerine in seeking of vengeance upon Blade. However, she turned down the offer because of her contradictory schedule. At the premiere of the film, Lords announced she was finishing her sophomore album on Radioactive Records that would be released in the spring of 1999. However, it was later neglected after she left the record label. In August, Lords ended her two-year relationship with John Enos after they reportedly got into an argument because her cat was killed by one of Enos' dogs.\n\nIn 2000, Lords had lead roles in the films \"Epicenter\" and \"Chump Change\". Her role of Sam in the romantic comedy \"Chump Change\" earned her the Film Discovery Jury Award for Best Actress at the U.S. Comedy Arts Festival. In September, she became a regular cast member in the third season of the Sci-fi Channel television series \"First Wave\", becoming the first recurring female character to be featured on the series. She played Jordan Radcliffe, an heiress and leader of the Human Resistance Group \"The Raven Nation\" after the aliens used her brother to murder her parents.\n\nHer autobiography, \"\", was published during July 2003 by HarperCollins. In the book, Lords chronicled her childhood, career and brief time in the x-rated industry. The book received positive reviews from critics and was a commercial success making \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list. It was criticized by pornographers, who claim they were the victims. In the book, Lords revealed that she received about $35,000 as total compensation for all her porno movies, including the $5,000 for her underage appearance in \"Penthouse\". Lords continued to use the now-famous stage name that she had given herself as a minor and ultimately made it her legal name. She explained, \"I chose to stop running from it. Instead, I won it, legally changing my name to Traci Elizabeth Lords. That's who I was, and that's who I was going to be.\" In her interview with Oprah Winfrey she stated: \"I found you can run, but you cannot hide.\"\n\nDuring 2003, it was announced that Lords was working on new music and had recorded a cover version of Missing Persons' song \"Walking In L.A.\". Directed by Mike Ruiz, the music video was premiered during her interview on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\". On December 28, 2004, she independently released two songs, \"Sunshine\" and \"You Burn Inside of Me\", via online music store CD Baby. Both of the songs along with \"What Cha Gonna Do\" was featured in the television series \"Joan of Arcadia\". \"You Burn Inside of Me\" was also used in the commercial for Duprey Cosmetics, in which Lords appeared. She signed to Sea To Sun records the following year, and released the chart-topping single \"Last Drag\". Lords is currently recording new music in Los Angeles.\n\nBy the beginning of 2007, Lords became unexpectedly pregnant. She first announced her pregnancy in June: \"I kind of thought the children thing was off the table. Now I'm expecting a boy! We're stunned and thrilled. I just want you to know, these 36-Ds are mine. I haven't had a boob job, she laughed! I am 5 months pregnant! But now I'm starting to show. And my husband is happy with the changes in my figure.\" On October 7, 2007, at the age of 39, she gave birth to a son, Gunnar Lee, her first child with her husband of five years, Jeff Lee.\n\nIn January 2008, it was announced that Lords had been cast in Kevin Smith's comedy \"Zack and Miri Make a Porno\" (2008). She said that at first she wanted to refuse but changed her mind after reading the script. \"It was really great that in taking the movie because I didn't plan on going back to work right away, but I was dying to work with Kevin. I never thought it would be on something called \"Zack and Miri Make a Porno\". What? So I went and I read the script at his house and I was prepared to say no. I thought I have the perfect out. I just had a kid. No one is going to blame me if I say I just can't do this right now. But it made me laugh out loud and it made me just literally cry. It was just funny.\" Initially, the character had a topless scene in the movie, but Lords refused. I'm done with all that, she said. Lords chose to breastfeed her son in between takes instead. Katie Morgan, a pornographic actress, also appeared in the film.\n\nIn 2009, Lords appeared in the direct-to-DVD science fiction movie, \"Princess of Mars\", alongside Antonio Sabàto, Jr. She was disappointed by the final project. \"Somewhere in my heart of hearts, I was worried that it might be a crummy movie. The production was just too careless. But I believed the voices of those around me who said 'No, it'll be artistic, no it'll be creative. You'll look beautiful. We have a very limited budget but honest, you'll be proud.' They were wrong, it was very bad. At least that was what I was told. After watching the first two minutes I had to turn it off and hide under the covers.\"\n\nIn March 2010, Lords announced she began working on her new album with \"Pretty\" being the lead single. However, the project was later shelved and \"Pretty\" was released as a promotional single only. Lords starred in the drama comedy \"Au Pair, Kansas\" which premiered in April 2011 at the Kansas City FilmFest. In July, Lords officially signed to independent record label Sea To Sun Recordings and in October made her musical comeback with the song \"Last Drag\". The single was successful in dance charts debuting at number forty-five and eventually peaking at number four on the \"Billboard\" Dance Club Songs.\n\nLords starred alongside AnnaLynne McCord and Ariel Winter in the horror \"Excision\" (2012), which premiered in January 2012 at the Sundance Film Festival. Her portrayal of the controlling mother Phyllis earned Lords Fangoria Chainsaw Award for Best Supporting Actress as well as Fright Meter Award and CinEuphoria Award. In September, Lords released a compilation of dance music \"\" (2012). It featured three of her own remixed tracks as well as songs by other artists. The song \"He's My Bitch\" managed to chart on the \"Billboard\" Dance Club Songs peaking at number twenty-five. Lords also voiced the character of Layla Stockton in the 2012 video game \"\". Following the Steubenville High School rape case, Lords spoke up on the topic and subsequently released the song \"Stupidville\" as a response to the case. \"I was born in Steubenville, Ohio and I was raped in there. So was my mother. I think there's a sickness in that city,\" Lords said. In 2013, Lords appeared in the horror movie \"Devil May Call\" (2013) and an episode of the web series \"EastSiders\". She was nominated for the Best Guest Star – Drama at the 2014 Indie Series Awards. She is currently starring in the hit comedy Swedish Dicks on PopTV. Keanu Reeves and Peter Stormare co-star.\n\nIn May 2015, Lords appeared in an episode of the fourth season of the reality television series \"Celebrity Wife Swap\", where she swapped lives with Jackée Harry. Lords co-starred in Jim Wynorski's television horror \"Sharkansas Women's Prison Massacre\" (2015) and made her second appearance as Val on the series \"EastSiders\". In March 2016, Lords co-starred in the television thriller \"Nightmare Nurse\" (2016) in which she played a psychopathic nurse looking for revenge for her dead husband. Lords voiced several characters in the action-adventure video game \"Hitman\" (2016) after having had previously voiced the character of Layla Stockton in \"\" (2012). In June, Lords announced her collaboration with Pinup Girl Clothing. The first pieces from her collection were inspired by the character of Wanda Woodward from \"Cry-Baby\" (1990) as well as 1950s fashion; the clothing line is available exclusively through the Pinup Girl Clothing website. She commented on her inspiration behind the line: \"John [Waters] wrote such strong characters in \"Cry-Baby\". And in that rockabilly, punk rock, vintage pin-up girl kind of world, Wanda Woodward is pretty much a queen.\"\n\nLords co-starred in the Viaplay original comedy series \"Swedish Dicks\". She played Jane McKinney, a private investigator and competitor of the show's protagonist. In October, the series was renewed for a second season with Lords as a confirmed cast member. In the United States, the first season premiered in August 2017. Later that month, Lords confirmed she would direct her first feature film called \"The Unquiet Grave\". Filming was scheduled to commence in 2017. In November, it was announced that Lords voiced the character of Jackal Z in the upcoming video game \"Let It Die\" (2016), and will appear on the third season of \"EastSiders\". In July 2017, Helmut Lang's fashion campaign for the Fall 2017 collection featuring Lords was unveiled. In May 2018, Lords released the single \"Come Alive\" as a gift for her fans in celebration of her 50th birthday. Following the release it was announced that she began working on an EP with Adam Barta and Jordan Von Haslow. In July, the second season of \"Swedish Dicks\" premiered in the United States.\n\nLords is a strong supporter of the LGBT community.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2162066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2162066", "title": "United States Children's Bureau", "text": "United States Children's Bureau\n\nThe United States Children's Bureau is a federal agency organized under the United States Department of Health and Human Services' Administration for Children and Families. Today, the bureau's operations involve improving child abuse prevention, foster care, and adoption. Historically, its work was much broader, as shown by the 1912 act which created and funded it:\n\nThe said bureau shall investigate and report to [the Department of Commerce and Labor] upon all matters pertaining to the welfare of children and child life among all classes of our people, and shall especially investigate the questions of infant mortality, the birth-rate, orphanage, juvenile courts, desertion, dangerous occupations, accidents and diseases of children, employment, legislation affecting children in the several states and territories.\n\nDuring the height of its influence, the Bureau was directed, managed, and staffed almost entirely by women—a rarity for any federal agency in the early 20th century. It was most influential in bringing the methods of social research and the ideas of maternalist reformers to bear on federal government policy.\n\nNew Deal legislation, including the Fair Labor Standards Act and Aid to Dependent Children programs, incorporated many reforms that the Children's Bureau and its network of grassroots women's organizations had supported for years. By the time the Children's Bureau was folded into the Social Security Administration in 1946, it began to assume more of its modern role.\n\nMost accounts of the Children's Bureau's origins point to two women, Lillian Wald and Florence Kelley, who began to discuss the idea around 1903. Their proposal (with colleagues) to President Theodore Roosevelt in 1905 reflected the Progressive Era's generally heightened concern for social welfare issues, as well as the influence of the Settlement movement, of which both women were members.\nAlso in 1905, the recently formed National Child Labor Committee (NCLC) agreed to make the establishment of a federal children's bureau its primary legislative goal. The NCLC's effort was supported by women's groups such as the National Consumers League, the General Federation of Women's Clubs, the National Congress of Mothers, and the Daughters of the American Revolution. The proposal also was endorsed by attendees of the first White House Conference on Children and Youth in 1909.\n\nThe bill establishing the Children's Bureau was passed in 1912 following a lengthy legislative effort, and it was signed by President William Howard Taft on April 9 of that year. The Children's Bureau became the first national government office in the world that focused solely on the well-being of children and their mothers.\n\nTaft appointed Julia Lathrop as the first head of the Bureau. Lathrop, a noted maternalist reformer also active in the Settlement Movement, was the first woman ever to head a government agency in the United States.\n\nAt its founding, the bureau was part of the Department of Commerce and Labor; when the two departments' functions were separated in 1913, it became part of the Department of Labor.\n\nThe Children's Bureau's first efforts focused on decreasing infant mortality by determining \"how many\" babies were dying, through expanded birth registration efforts, and understanding \"why\" so many babies died before their first birthday. The Bureau completed birth registration campaigns and conducted infant mortality studies in 10 cities between 1914 and 1921. These studies revealed strong connections between poverty and infant deaths.\n\nThe Bureau's commitment to fighting infant mortality resonated with the proliferation of \"baby-saving\" campaigns throughout the country at this time. The Bureau endorsed activities such as prenatal care, infant health clinics, visiting nurses, public sanitation, certified milk stations, and education of mothers. It proclaimed a \"Children's Year\" beginning April 6, 1918, to protect children from shortages of milk, food, and public health nurses during World War I. As part of this effort, volunteers weighed and measured millions of children, resulting in the publication of the nation's first age, height, and weight standards.\n\nIn its first few years, the Children's Bureau published several pamphlets about prenatal, infant, and child care. These booklets were soon in high demand. By 1929, the Bureau estimated that the information in its pamphlets had benefited one-half of all U.S. babies.\n\nIn 1914 Emma Octavia Lundberg became the first Director of the Social Services Division of the Children's Bureau.\n\nChild labor became a focus of the Children's Bureau's efforts beginning around 1915. Between 1915 and 1930, the Bureau published 31 studies examining children's working conditions by visiting child laborers in their homes and workplaces. These studies helped to reveal the prevalence and nature of child labor in the United States.\n\nIn 1916, Congress passed the Keating-Owen Act, which discouraged child labor. Congress assigned the Children's Bureau the responsibilities of administering and enforcing this law. Chief Lathrop hired noted child-labor reformer Grace Abbott to lead the Bureau's newly created Child Labor Division in April 1917; however, the law was short-lived. The Supreme Court of the United States ruled it unconstitutional in June 1918.\n\nIn August 1921, Lathrop stepped down as Chief, and Grace Abbott was appointed to succeed her.\n\nThe Children's Bureau played a major role in the passage and administration of the Sheppard–Towner Act. This law, passed in 1921, authorized the first federal grants-in-aid for state-level children's health programs. Projects in most states included some or all of the following:\n\n\nThe program ended in 1929, having helped an estimated 4 million infants and preschool children and approximately 700,000 pregnant women.\n\nMaternal and infant care and child labor were the Bureau's primary focus during its first two decades. However, other topics of research included juvenile delinquency, mother's aid, illegitimacy, foster care, and children's diseases. Notably:\n\n\nDuring the early years of the Great Depression, under President Herbert Hoover, the Children's Bureau helped with government efforts to document families' needs and local relief efforts. When Congress established the Federal Emergency Relief Administration (FERA) in May 1933, the Children's Bureau helped to collect data for the agency to determine how the appropriations would be spent. The Bureau also worked with the FERA to establish the Child Health Recovery Program, providing emergency food and medical care to children in need.\n\nIn December 1934, Katherine Lenroot succeeded Abbott as Chief of the Bureau. She held this position until 1952. Lenroot, Martha May Eliot, and Grace Abbott worked together to create the child-focused sections of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Social Security bill:\n\n\nWhen the Social Security Act was signed in 1935, the Children's Bureau was granted authority to administer the last three of these programs. (Aid to Dependent Children was administered by the newly established Social Security Board.) The Bureau grew from distributing $337,371 in 1930 to dispensing nearly $11 million in grants by the end of the decade; its staff grew from 143 to more than 400.\n\nIn the meantime, the Children's Bureau remained active in the campaign against child labor. In 1933, the National Industrial Recovery Act (NIRA) opened the door for the Bureau to establish industry-specific child labor codes and the first federal minimum age for full-time employment. The NIRA was declared unconstitutional by the Supreme Court in May 1935. Many of its provisions, however, were recreated in the Fair Labor Standards Act passed three years later.\n\nThroughout World War II, the Children's Bureau continued to promote the well-being of U.S. children through activities such as developing standards for day care for children of working mothers and a campaign to focus attention on children's physical and emotional needs during the war. Meanwhile, the Bureau worked with the U.S. Committee for the Care of European Children to maintain a central register of unaccompanied refugee children arriving in the United States, to oversee their placement with agencies and foster families, and to establish standards for their care.\n\nThe Children's Bureau's wartime Emergency Maternity and Infant Care (EMIC) program provided for medical, hospital, and nursing care for wives and babies of men in the four lowest pay grades of the Armed Forces. At the time, EMIC was the largest federally funded medical care program ever undertaken in the United States, serving approximately 1.5 million women and babies between 1943 and 1949.\n\nIn 1946, the Children's Bureau was folded into the Social Security Administration as part of a massive postwar reorganization of the federal government. In this reorganization, the Bureau lost authority over all labor-related programs. On September 4, 1951, Martha May Eliot became the Bureau's fourth Chief.\n\nIn 1952, the Bureau formed the Special Juvenile Delinquency Project with foundations and other private partners interested in improving the prevention and treatment of delinquency. The Project sponsored public meetings and collaborated on a series of practice guides and professional standards. When the project ended in 1955, the Bureau's work in this area continued through a newly created Division of Juvenile Delinquency Service.\n\nThe Children's Bureau's grant-in-aid programs grew significantly in the decade following World War II:\n\n\nPresident Dwight D. Eisenhower named Katherine Oettinger the fifth Chief of the Children's Bureau on May 17, 1957. Oettinger's tenure as Chief (1957–1968) reflected a growing emphasis on preserving and strengthening families. Under her direction, the Bureau also advocated for greater protection for all parties in an adoption.\n\nIt was during this period that the Bureau's first research and demonstration grants in child welfare were authorized. Early topics included methods for meeting the needs of disadvantaged preschool children and their families (a precursor to the Head Start Program), selection of foster parents, and the well-being of adopted children and their families. In 1962, amendments to the Social Security Act authorized the Children's Bureau to make its first child welfare training grants to institutions of higher education.\n\nThe focus on maternal and infant health programs continued throughout the 1960s. The Children's Bureau provided early national leadership in the diagnosis and treatment of phenylketonuria (PKU) to prevent mental retardation. Other special health care projects during this period included prosthetics research, epilepsy treatment, and dissemination of vaccines for polio and other childhood diseases.\n\nThe Children's Bureau also contributed to a growing awareness of child abuse, or \"battered child syndrome\" as it was called in the early 1960s. The Bureau held meetings with experts and drafted a model statute that states could use to require doctors and hospitals to report suspected abuse. All states enacted some form of this law by the end of 1967. The Bureau also funded grants to research causes of child abuse and effective prevention methods.\n\nIn January 1963, the Children's Bureau was moved from the Social Security Administration to the newly created Welfare Administration, reflecting a growing emphasis on coordination between child welfare services and the ADC program.\n\nIn keeping with President Lyndon B. Johnson's priorities, the Bureau's work on juvenile delinquency began to evolve into a focus on prevention and positive youth development. A Youth Services Unit was created in 1966 to encourage more proactive services to help youth transition successfully into adulthood. At the same time, the Children's Bureau continued to study ways to improve the effectiveness of juvenile court systems. In 1967, the Bureau released a revised version of its \"Standards for Juvenile and Family Courts\". These standards, emphasizing the importance of due process for youth offenders, were cited in the groundbreaking \"in re Gault\" decision that year.\n\nOn September 17, 1969, the Children's Bureau was moved to a new Office of Child Development (OCD) within the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare's Office of the Secretary. At that time, many of the Bureau's responsibilities were assigned to other areas of the federal government. All health programs, including maternal and child health services, crippled children's services, maternity and infant care projects, and health research, were permanently relocated to the Public Health Service within the Health Services and Mental Health Administration. Today, these programs still exist within the Maternal and Child Health Bureau, Health Resources and Services Administration, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The Children's Bureau continued to administer research but was no longer responsible for any direct service programs, including those related to juvenile delinquency, child welfare, or families in the AFDC program. This reorganization essentially narrowed the Bureau's focus to three areas: increasing the number of foster families, helping to find permanent families for children waiting for adoption, and preventing and addressing child abuse and neglect.\n\nIn response to rising numbers of children in foster care, Children's Bureau grants during the 1970s investigated in-home services to strengthen families, family-centered casework, permanency planning, family reunification, the needs of children living with relatives, and how to remove barriers to adoption for children with special needs. The Bureau also examined the impact of workforce issues on the foster care system and supported a growing foster parents' movement through conferences and grants.\n\nIn adoption policy, the Children's Bureau's focus shifted from finding children for families to finding parents for children. Increased attention was paid to the growing number of hard-to-place children, including those from minority groups, older children, children with disabilities, and sibling groups. The Bureau supported exploration of nontraditional adoption arrangmeents, such as cross-cultural, transracial, single-parent, and subsidized adoption.\n\nPassage of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (CAPTA) of 1974 created a National Center on Child Abuse and Neglect (NCCAN) within the Children's Bureau. NCCAN centralized and coordinated the Bureau's growing focus on more effective child abuse prevention, research, state reporting laws, and systems.\n\nPresident Jimmy Carter signed the Adoption Assistance and Child Welfare Act on June 17, 1980. This landmark law assigned the Children's Bureau additional responsibilities, including reporting to Congress on foster care placements, collecting and publishing data on foster care and adoption, and conducting regular audits of state child welfare programs.\n\nDuring President Ronald Reagan's administration, there was a continued emphasis on family-based services, special needs adoption, and child abuse prevention. Some notable examples of the Bureau's projects during the 1980s include proclamations of the first National Child Abuse Prevention Month and National Adoption Week, establishment of a National Adoption Information Clearinghouse, and creation of the Children's Justice Act program to help states improve their handling of child abuse cases, with a particular emphasis on child sexual abuse.\n\nBoth of the Children's Bureau's present-day data collection systems, the Adoption and Foster Care Analysis and Reporting System (AFCARS) and the National Child Abuse and Neglect Data System (NCANDS), were developed during this period. Enhanced data collection resulted in a deeper understanding of the families and children affected by child abuse and neglect, foster care, and adoption. This led to legislative and policy changes during the late 1980s and early 1990s, including the establishment of a federal program to support independent living services for youth aging out of the foster care system without permanent families. In response to the HIV and crack cocaine epidemics, Congress created the Abandoned Infants Assistance program in 1988.\n\nOn April 15, 1991, today's Administration for Children and Families was created within the Department of Health and Human Services, encompassing ACYF and the Children's Bureau. The same year, NCCAN was moved out from within the Children's Bureau and became a separate entity within ACYF.\n\nChiefs during this period included:\n\nPresident Bill Clinton signed the Family Preservation and Support Services Program Act on August 10, 1993, as part of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (P.L. 103-66). The family preservation program, administered by the Children's Bureau, authorized services to help families in crisis (such as respite care and intensive in-home assistance), as well as other forms of family support and family reunification. P.L. 103-66 also established the Court Improvement Program, through which the Children's Bureau provides grants to improve state courts' handling of child welfare cases, and provided additional funds for states to improve their child welfare data collection systems.\n\nGrowing awareness of the problem of child abuse and neglect, and particularly child deaths, resulted in many enhancements to prevention, investigation, and prosecution efforts. In 1996, the Children's Bureau created a new program, the Community-Based Family Resource and Support grants, to encourage public and private child abuse prevention and treatment programs to work together more effectively.\n\nIn 1995, the Children's Bureau convened an Adoption Program Network to provide input on a new National Adoption Strategic Plan. Around the same time, President Clinton encouraged HHS to develop a plan for doubling the number of adoptions and permanent placements from foster care during the next five years. HHS responded by issuing a report, with the Bureau's assistance, that outlined a series of policy- and practice-related steps toward achieving this goal. These recommendations became the framework for the Adoption and Safe Families Act (ASFA, P.L. 105-89), signed by President Clinton on November 19, 1997. The Children's Bureau was tasked with helping states bring their laws and policies into compliance with this new federal law, which focused on timely permanence, child well-being, and increased accountability of child welfare systems.\n\nASFA also required HHS to establish outcome measures to track State performance in protecting children. These measures were used in a series of annual reports on national outcomes for child welfare services, first published in 2000. The Child and Family Services Reviews (CFSRs), federal reviews of state child welfare systems based on these outcome measures, began in 2001. Findings from the first round of CFSRs provided more detailed information about states' strengths and needs, enabling the Bureau to create technical assistance and data collection systems more directly focused on areas of greatest need. Some examples include:\n\n\nIn 2003, to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the first Presidential Proclamation for Child Abuse Prevention Month, OCAN launched a yearlong National Child Abuse Prevention Initiative. Since then, support for child abuse prevention efforts has continued to expand, due in part to growing evidence that home visitation programs can effectively reduce maltreatment and improve outcomes for pregnant mothers and families with young children. In 2011, another child abuse prevention initiative kicked off at the Bureau's first Network for Action meeting.\n\nMore recent Children's Bureau initiatives have included the following:\n\n\nOn April 9, 2012, the Children's Bureau marked its 100th anniversary with a ceremony at the Hubert H. Humphrey Building in Washington, DC. HHS Secretary Kathleen Sebelius, Acting Assistant Secretary for Children and Families George Sheldon, and Acting Associate Commissioner Joe Bock were among the speakers at the event. Former ACYF Commissioner Carol Wilson Spigner (Carol Williams) was given a Children's Bureau Centennial Award for her \"extraordinary vision and leadership in the field of child welfare services.\"\n\nIn its early years, the Children's Bureau published voluminously on many topics related to children's health and well-being, and it distributed its publications very widely. A full bibliography is impossible here, but an OpenLibrary search by author gives some sense of the range of topics.\n\nSome of the Bureau's significant recent publications include the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38504838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38504838", "title": "Vertrokken onbekend waarheen", "text": "Vertrokken onbekend waarheen\n\nVertrokken onbekend waarheen (VOW) is a Dutch term meaning \"left town, destination unknown\", used in resident registrations for a person who does not live at his registered address in the Netherlands anymore, while it is unknown where he lives now, not even in which country. In most cases the person has not registered that he left; in some cases he did, without specifying a destination. Some have left the country, others still live in the country without being registered. \n\nThe reasons may include neglect, but also tax evasion and/or avoiding arrest for a crime. The downside for the person is that he cannot get benefits such as (for a Dutch person) getting a passport, and for anyone still living in the country, being allowed to work and to send his children to school, getting social security, etc.\n\nAccording to a 2011 report by the Dutch Bureau of Statistics, the number of VOWs in the Netherlands has been steadily increasing since 1996, which is not surprising, because those who leave the country and do not return, often remain out-of-sight indefinitely. VOWs are mostly male and under the age of 45.\n\nDuring the second world war many VOWs referred to Jewish people who left their official address to live somewhere else without registration, to avoid deportation. This included people who were forced to leave their town and to start living in Amsterdam (from where they would be deported later). In the city of Haarlem in 1942, 121 Jewish people were registered as \"VOW\" of the 925 members of the registered local Jewish community, and by the end of the war the total number of Jewish VOWs was estimated to be between 750–1000.\n"}
{"id": "3450046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3450046", "title": "Virago", "text": "Virago\n\nA virago is a woman who demonstrates exemplary and heroic qualities. The word comes from the Latin word \"virāgō\" ((genitive virāginis) meaning variously 'a man-like, vigorous, heroic maiden, a female warrior, heroine..' from \"vir\" meaning 'man' (cf. virile and virtue) to which the suffix \"-āgō \" is added, a suffix that creates a new noun of the third declension with feminine grammatical gender.\n\nThe word \"virago\" has almost always had an association with cultural gender transgression. A virago, of whatever excellence, was still identified by her gender. There are recorded instances of viragos (such as Joan of Arc) fighting battles, wearing men's clothing, or receiving the tonsure. The word \"virago\" could also be used disparagingly, to imply that a virago was not excellent or heroic, but was instead violating cultural norms. Thus \"virago\" joined pejoratives such as \"termagant\", \"mannish\", \"amazonian\" and \"shrew\" to demean women who acted aggressively or like men.\n\nHistorically, the concept of a virago reaches back into antiquity where Hellenistic philosophy asserted that elite and exceptionally heroic men had \"virtus\" (). \"Virtus\" (once again linked to \"vir\", the brave man abiding by society's highest values and ethics as opposed to \"homo\", human being) defined the traits of excellence for a man in ancient Rome (and Greece), including valor and heroism, but also morality and physical strength. Women and non-elite or unheroic men (slaves, servants, craftsmen, merchants) were considered a lesser category, and believed to be less excellent in Roman morality. A woman, however, if exceptional enough could earn the title \"virago\". In doing so, she surpassed the expectations for what was believed possible for her gender, and embodied masculine-like aggression and/or excellence. Virago, then, was a title of respect and admiration. In Christianity, a nun or holy woman who had become equal in divinity to male monks through practiced celibacy, exemplary religious practice and devotion, and intact virginity, was considered to have surpassed the limitations of her femaleness and was called \"virago\". Firmicus Maternus describes virago as women who take on a man's character and desire intercourse with women like men.\n\nStandard modern dictionaries define \"virago\" as either, in order of definition, (1) a \"loud overbearing woman\"; a \"shrew\". or (2) a woman of \"great stature, strength, and courage\" Thus virago continues to be associated with both the naming of a woman who has either (1) a domineering, abrasive and spiteful manner, or (2) has risen above cultural and gender stereotypes to embody a virile heroism; for example, the British Royal Navy christened at least four warships \"Virago\".\n\nThe Vulgate Bible, translated by Jerome and others in the 4th century C.E., was an early Latin translation of the Hebrew Bible Old Testament. In Genesis 2:23, Jerome uses the words \"Vir\" for man and \"Virago\" for \"woman\" attempting to reproduce a pun on \"male\" and \"female\" (\"ish\" and \"ishah\") that existed in the Hebrew text.\n\nThe Vulgate reads:\n\n\"Dixitque Adam hoc nunc os ex ossibus meis et caro de carne mea haec vocabitur virago quoniam de viro sumpta est.\"\n<br>\n\"And Adam said: This now is bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh; she shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man.\"\nThe Middle English poem \"Cursor Mundi\" retains the Latin name for the woman in its otherwise Middle English account of the creation:\n\n\"Quen sco was broght be-for adam, Virago he gaf her to nam; þar for hight sco virago, ffor maked of the man was sco.\" (lines 631–34)\n<br>\n\"When she was brought before Adam, Virago was the name he gave to her; Therefore she is called Virago, For she was made out of the man.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "89633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89633", "title": "Warhammer 40,000", "text": "Warhammer 40,000\n\nWarhammer 40,000 is a miniature wargame that simulates terrestrial battles between futuristic armies. It is one of the most popular miniature wargames in the world.\n\nAs in other miniature wargames, players use miniature models made of plastic or metal to represent warriors and fighting vehicles. The playing field is a tabletop model of a battlefield, comprising miniature models of buildings, hills, trees, and other landmarks. Players take turns to play through 4 basic game phases. The movement phase where a player can elect to move some or all of his models a set distance measured using tape measures, the psychic phase where any units with psychic ability can attempt to manifest their psychic powers, the shooting phase where the players roll a series of dice to resolve the outcome of any shots fired and the assault phase where the outcome of any physical or hand to hand attacks are determined by dicertain rolls. Once these 4 phases have been resolved then the second player takes his part of the turn and repeats the process. Usually a game of warhammer 40,000 consists of five turns. Depending on the size of game this can take anything from just a single hour to several days. \n\nWhereas some other miniature wargames are recreations of historical warfare, \"Warhammer 40,000\" has a fictional theme; a blend of science-fiction and fantasy. The models in the game are a mixture futuristic warriors, aliens, and supernatural monsters, with battles taking place on alien worlds. \"Warhammer 40,000\" is set in the distant future, where a stagnant human civilization is beset by hostile aliens and malevolent supernatural creatures.\n\n\"Warhammer 40,000\" was developed by Rick Priestley as a science-fiction version of \"Warhammer Fantasy Battle\". The first edition of the rulebook was published in October 1987. The latest edition is the eighth, which was published in June 2017.\n\n\"Warhammer 40,000\" has spawned a number of spin-off tabletop games. These include \"Battlefleet Gothic\", which simulates spaceship combat, and \"Space Hulk\", which simulates indoors combat. It has also spawned a large number of computer games, such as the \"Dawn of War\" series.\n\nThe rulebooks and models required to play the game are copyrighted and sold exclusively by Games Workshop and its subsidiaries. These and other materials (dice, measuring tools, glue, paints, etc.) all make \"Warhammer 40,000\" expensive as far as gaming hobbies go. A new player can expect to spend at least $500 to assemble enough materials for a \"proper\" game.\n\n\"Warhammer 40,000\" is meant to be played on a tabletop. In contrast to board games, \"Warhammer 40,000\" does not have a fixed playing field. Players are expected to construct their own custom-made playing field using modular terrain models. Games Workshop sells a variety of proprietary terrain models, but players often use generic or homemade ones too. The table can be of any size so long as the players can reach every part of it (the core rulebook recommends a width of four feet). Unlike certain other miniature wargames (such as \"Battletech\"), \"Warhammer 40,000\" does not use a grid system. Players must use measuring tape and templates to measure distances. Distances are measured in inches.\n\nGames Workshop sells a large variety of plastic and resin models for \"Warhammer 40,000\". Games Workshop doesn't sell ready-to-play models. Rather, it sells boxes of model parts. Players are expected to assemble and paint the miniatures themselves. Games Workshop also sells glue, tools, and acrylic paints for this purpose.\n\nEach miniature model represents an individual warrior or vehicle. In the rulebooks, there is an entry for every type of model in the game that describes its capabilities. For instance, a model of a Tactical Space Marine has a \"Move characteristic\" of 6 inches, a \"Toughness characteristic\" of 4, and is armed with a \"boltgun\" with a range of 24 inches.\n\nOfficially, \"Warhammer 40,000\" doesn't have a fixed scale, but the models approximate to a scale ratio of 1:60 (ie 1 inch represents 60 inches). For instance, a Land Raider tank model is 17cm long but conceptually 10.3m long. A Space Marine model is about 34mm tall.\n\n\"Note: The overview here references the 8th edition of the core rulebook, published June 2017\"\nModels are classified into \"factions\". In a matched game, a player can only use warrior models that are all loyal to a common faction, such as \"Imperium\" or \"Chaos\". Thus, a player cannot, for example, use a mixture of Eldar and Ork models. Each faction has its own strengths and weaknesses due to the warriors and weapons it has access to. For instance, the Tau faction favors ranged combat because its melee warriors are weak.\n\nThe players must agree as to what \"points limit\" they will play at, which roughly determines how big and powerful their respective armies will be. Each model has a \"point value\" which roughly corresponds to how powerful the model is, e.g. a Tactical Space Marine is valued at 13 points, whereas a Land Raider tank is valued at 239 points. The sum of the point values of a player's models must not exceed his agreed limit. 1,000 points is a common points limit.\n\nAt the start of a game, each player places his models in starting zones at opposite ends of the playing field.\n\nAt the start of his turn, a player moves each model in his army by hand across the field. A model can be moved no farther than its listed \"Move characteristic\". For instance, a model of a Space Marine can be moved no farther than six inches per turn. If a model cannot fly, it must go around obstacles such as walls and trees.\n\nModels are grouped into \"units\". They move, attack, and suffer damage as a unit. All models in a unit must stay close to each other; each model in a unit must finish a turn within two inches horizontally and six inches vertically of another model from the unit.\n\nAfter moving, each unit can attack any enemy unit within range and line-of-fire of whatever weapons and psychic powers its models have. For instance, a unit of Space Marines armed with boltguns can shoot any enemy unit within 24 inches. The attacking player rolls dice to determine how much imaginary damage his models inflicted on the enemy unit. The attacking player cannot target individual models within an enemy unit; if an enemy unit suffers damage, the enemy player decides which models in the unit suffered injury. If a model suffers more injury than its \"Wound characteristic\" permits, it dies. A dead model of an infantry is removed from the playing field. Disabled vehicles are left on the field (and turned upside down), and serve as obstacles for surviving models.\n\nVictory depends on what kind of \"mission\" the players choose for their game. It might involve exterminating the enemy, or holding a location on the field for a certain length of time, or retaining possession of a \"relic\" for a certain length of time.\n\n\"Warhammer 40,000\" is set mostly in the 41st millennium (roughly 38,000 years in the future). Although \"Warhammer 40,000\" is mostly a science-fiction setting, it also adapts a number of tropes from fantasy fiction, such as magic, supernatural beings, daemonic possession, and races such as the Orks and Elves. \"Psykers\" fill the role of wizards in this setting.\n\nThe setting of \"Warhammer 40,000\" is violent and pessimistic. It depicts a future where human scientific and social progress have ceased, and human civilization is close to being destroyed due to warfare with hostile alien races and occult forces. It is a setting where the supernatural is usually malevolent. There are no heavenly beings in the cosmos, only daemons and dark gods, and the cults dedicated to them are growing larger and more powerful.\n\nThe source of magic in the setting is a parallel dimension of psychic energy known as \"the Warp\". All living creatures have a psychic link to this place, but certain individuals called \"psykers\" have an especially strong link and can tap its energy to work magic. Humans and some alien races use psykers to circumvent the normal laws of physics, permitting faster-than-light travel and communication. But this power comes at a price: the Warp is full of daemons who use psykers as entrances into realspace. Because of this, psykers must be trained to control their psychic powers and resist Warp predators. Those who fail this training are executed for the safety of all. Those who pass their training are pressed into life-long servitude to the state.\n\nRick Priestley cites J. R. R. Tolkien, H. P. Lovecraft, \"Dune\", \"Paradise Lost\", and \"2000 AD\" as major influences on the setting. Priestley felt that \"Warhammer\"s concept of Chaos, as detailed by his colleague Bryan Ansell in the supplement \"Realms of Chaos\", was too simplistic and too similar to the works of Michael Moorcock, so he developed it further, taking inspiration from \"Paradise Lost\". The story of the Emperor's favored sons succumbing to the temptations of Chaos deliberately parallels the fall of Satan in \"Paradise Lost\". The religious themes are primarily inspired by the early history of Christianity and Catholicism.\n\nThe Imperium of Man is a critique of organized religion and authoritarian thinking:\nThe myriad models available for play in \"Warhammer 40,000\" are divided into \"factions.\" Under typical circumstances, a player can only use units from the same faction within a single army. For instance, an army cannot include both Ork and Eldar models because Orks and Eldar are enemies in the setting.\n\nThe Imperium of Man is a human empire that spans a majority of the galaxy and has existed for over 10,000 years. The Imperium is mired in a prolonged cultural dark age; although it has access to advanced technology, scientific progress has ceased and these technologies typically date back thousands of years. Imperial society is deeply superstitious, centered on the worship of the Emperor of Mankind, its founder and nominal ruler. Those who do not worship the Emperor, including alien species and human followers of Chaos, are mercilessly persecuted as heretics - with the exception of Mars's Machine Cult, which in the Imperium's early days forged an alliance with Earth and later syncrethized with the Imperial Cult. The irony of the Imperial religion is that the Emperor is not a god but an extremely powerful yet mortal psyker, who himself made severe attempts to establish an atheistic society; furthermore, since the early years of the Imperium, the Emperor survives in an unresponsive state in a life-support machine known as the \"Golden Throne\", so he rules in name only. However, some speculate the sheer amount of worship from his trillions of followers has caused him to truly ascend to something of a godhood, but this remains unclear.\n\nOf all the factions, the Imperium has the largest catalog of models, which gives Imperial players great flexibility in designing their army.\n\nWithin the parallel dimension known as the Warp dwell the Chaos Gods, who are monomaniacal and depraved entities formed from the emotions and souls of mortals. The Chaos Gods have the ability to twist the minds of mortals, amplifying certain emotional traits and inspiring reverence, like a supernatural form of brainwashing. Worshippers of Chaos (most of whom depicted in the game are human) tend to be insane, violent, and depraved, and they often exhibit grotesque physical mutations such as extra mouths or limbs replaced with tentacles.\n\nLike the Imperium, the forces of Chaos have access to a large variety of models, meaning a Chaos army can be designed for any style of play.\n\nThe Eldar are derived from the Elves of \"Warhammer Fantasy\". They are an ancient species of aliens who view humans and other non-Eldar species as vermin. In the distant past, they ruled an empire that dominated the galaxy, but it was destroyed in a magical cataclysm, along with most of the population. The surviving Eldar are divided into the ascetic inhabitants (known simply as \"Eldar\") of the Craftworlds, massive spacecraft scattered across the galaxy, and the Dark Eldar, or Drukhari, a race of sadistic space pirates who inhabit a massive port city hidden within the Warp.\n\nEldar infantry tend to be highly specialized and relatively frail \"glass cannons.\" Because of their lack of staying power, Eldar armies can suffer severe losses after a bad tactical decision or even unlucky dice rolls, while successful gameplay can involve outnumbered Eldar units which outmaneuver the opponent and kill entire squads before they have a chance to retaliate.\n\nThe Tyranids are a mysterious alien race from another galaxy. They migrate from planet to planet, devouring all life in their path. Tyranids are linked by a psychic hive mind in the Warp; individual Tyranid creatures become feral when separated from it. Their technology is entirely biological: their ships and weapons are living components of their bodies.\n\nTyranids have a preference for melee combat; their infantry units tend to be fast and hard-hitting but frail. They also have low point values, meaning Tyranid armies in the game are typically fairly large. Tyranids have the most powerful counter-measures against enemies with psychic powers: many Tyranid units possess the \"Shadow in the Warp\" trait, which makes it harder for nearby enemy psykers to use their psychic powers.\n\nThe Tau, or T'au, are a progressive race of blue-skinned aliens inhabiting a small but growing empire located on the fringes of the Imperium of Man. The Tau Empire is the only faction in the setting that actively integrates alien species into their society; they seek to subjugate all other races for the benefit of all, under an ideology termed \"the Greater Good.\" Though the Tau may appear self-righteous, they and their subjects do enjoy a better quality of life than Imperial citizens, and with the absence of the bigoted tendencies of many other factions, many Imperial worlds have willingly defected to the Tau Empire. \n\nTau armies have a strong preference for ranged combat. The Tau do not have any psykers nor units that specialize in countering psykers, which makes them somewhat more vulnerable to psychic attacks. Most Tau vehicles are classified as flyers, skimmers, or jet pack infantry, meaning they can move swiftly over difficult terrain.\n\nThe Necrons are an ancient race of skeleton-like robots. Millions of years ago, they were flesh-and-blood beings, and they transferred their minds into robot bodies to achieve immortality. However, the process was flawed, and most Necrons became mindless automatons. They are waking up from millions of years of hibernation in underground vaults, and seek to rebuild their old empire.\n\nNecron infantry are characterized by strong ranged firepower, tough armor, and slow movement. They are known primarily for their trademark \"gauss\" and \"reanimation\" abilities. As robots made of \"living metal,\" many Necron units possess the ability to reassemble themselves after being slain and fight on. As machines, Necrons possess maximum leadership across all units but are also relatively slow moving outside of some transports. Necrons do not have any psykers, which makes them vulnerable to psychic attacks.\n\nThe Orks are green-skinned genetically-engineered aliens modeled after traditional orcs of high fantasy. Their culture revolves around war for its own sake, periodically erupting into massive crusades against Imperial planets or other species. However, gains from these wars are often negated due to the general instability of Ork states - it is heavily hinted that, if the Orks ever joined together as one force, they would be even more powerful than the Imperium. They even appear to be mostly impossible to exterminate: upon death, they release plantlike spores that allow them to reproduce, not unlike mushrooms.\n\nIn the tabletop game, Ork infantry units are typically slow-moving, tough, and numerous. They have a preference for melee combat, as their ranged units are weak. Thematically, their psyker units, known as \"Weirdboyz,\" can pose as much of a threat to their own units as the enemy.\n\nIn 1982, Rick Priestley joined Citadel Miniatures, a subsidiary of Games Workshop that produced miniature figurines for use in \"Dungeons and Dragons\". Bryan Ansell (the manager of Citadel) asked Priestley to develop a medieval-fantasy miniature wargame that would be given away for free to customers so as to encourage them to buy more miniatures (\"Dungeons and Dragons\", at the time, did not require players to use miniature figurines). The result was \"Warhammer Fantasy Battle\", which was released in 1983 to great success. \n\nSince before working for Games Workshop, Rick Priestley had been developing a miniature wargame/RPG hybrid called \"Rogue Trader\", which mixed science-fiction with classic fantasy elements. Priestley showed his bosses his outline for \"Rogue Trader\", but they were hesitant because they thought that a science-fiction game wouldn't sell well. His bosses floated the idea of selling cheap kits with which players could convert their \"Warhammer Fantasy\" models into science-fiction models — e.g. by replacing swords with laser-pistols — but as time passed, their enthusiasm for \"Rogue Trader\" grew, and they finally agreed to produce a dedicated line of models for it.\n\nSometime before \"Rogue Trader\" was released, Games Workshop signed a contract with 2000 AD to develop a board game based on \"Rogue Trooper\". So as not to confuse customers, Games Workshop renamed Priestley's game \"Warhammer 40,000: Rogue Trader\" and marketed it as a spin-off of \"Warhammer Fantasy Battle\". \"Warhammer 40,000: Rogue Trader\" was released in October 1987.\n\nThe first edition of the game, \"\", was published in 1987. Game designer Rick Priestley created the original rules set (based on the contemporary second edition of \"Warhammer Fantasy Battle\") alongside the \"Warhammer 40,000\" gameworld. The gameplay of \"Rogue Trader\" was heavily oriented toward role-playing rather than strict wargaming. This original version came as a very detailed, though rather jumbled, rulebook, which made it most suitable for fighting small skirmishes. Much of the composition of the units was determined randomly, by rolling dice. A few elements of the setting (bolters, lasguns, frag grenades, Terminator armour) can be seen in a set of earlier wargaming rules called \"Laserburn\" (produced by the now defunct company Tabletop Games) written by Bryan Ansell. These rules were later expanded by both Ansell and Richard Halliwell (both of whom ended up working for Games Workshop), although the rules were not a precursor to \"Rogue Trader\".\n\nIn addition, supplemental material was continually published in \"White Dwarf\" magazine, which provided rules for new units and models. Eventually, \"White Dwarf\" provided proper \"army lists\" that could be used to create larger and more coherent forces than were possible in the main rulebook. These articles were from time to time released in expansion books along with new rules, background materials and illustrations. All in all ten books were released for the original edition of \"Warhammer 40,000\": \"Chapter Approved – Book of the Astronomican\", \"Compendium\", \"Warhammer 40,000 Compilation\", \"Waaagh – Orks\", two \"Realm of Chaos\" (\"Slaves to Darkness\" and \"The Lost and the Damned\"), \"'Ere we Go\", \"Freebooterz\", \"Battle Manual\", and \"Vehicle Manual\". The \"Battle Manual\" changed and codified the combat rules and provided updated stats for most of the weapons in the game. The \"Vehicle Manual\" contained a new system for vehicle management on the tabletop which was intended to supersede the clunky rules given in the base hardback manual and in the red softback compendium, it had an inventive target location system which used acetate crosshairs to simulate weapon hits on the vehicle silhouettes with different armour values for different locations (such as tracks, engine compartment, ammo store, and so on). \"Waaagh – Orks\" was an introductory manual to Orkish culture and physiology. It contained no rules, but background material. Other Ork-themed books instead were replete with army lists for major Ork clans and also for greenskin pirate and mercenary outfits. The \"Realm of Chaos\" books were hefty hardback tomes, which included rules for Chaos in \"Warhammer 40,000\", \"Warhammer Fantasy Roleplay\" and \"Warhammer Fantasy Battle\" (3rd edition).\n\nThe second edition of \"Warhammer 40,000\" was published in late 1993. This new course for the game was forged under the direction of editor Andy Chambers. The second edition came in a boxed set that included Space Marine and Ork miniatures, scenery, dice, and the main rules. An expansion box set titled \"Dark Millennium\" was later released, which included rules for psychic powers. Another trait of the game was the attention given to \"special characters\" representing specific individuals from the background, who had access to equipment and abilities beyond those of others; the earlier edition only had three generic \"heroic\" profiles for each army: \"champion\", \"minor hero\" and \"major hero\".\n\nThe third edition of the game was released in 1998 and, like the second edition, concentrated on streamlining the rules for larger battles. Third-edition rules were notably simpler. The rulebook was available alone, or as a boxed set with miniatures of Space Marines and the newly introduced Dark Eldar. The system of army \"'codexes'\" continued in third edition.\n\nTowards the end of the third edition, four new army codexes were introduced: the xeno (that is, alien) races of the Necron and the Tau and two armies of the Inquisition: the Ordo Malleus (called Daemonhunters), and the Ordo Hereticus (called Witchhunters); elements of the latter two armies had appeared before in supplementary material (such as \"Realm of Chaos\" and \"Codex: Sisters of Battle\"). At the end of the third edition, these armies were re-released with all-new artwork and army lists. The release of the Tau coincided with a rise in popularity for the game in the United States.\n\nThe fourth edition of \"Warhammer 40,000\" was released in 2004. This edition did not feature as many major changes as prior editions, and was \"backwards compatible\" with each army's third-edition codex. The fourth edition was released in three forms: the first was a standalone hardcover version, with additional information on painting, scenery building, and background information about the \"Warhammer 40,000\" universe. The second was a boxed set, called \"Battle for Macragge\", which included a compact softcover version of the rules, scenery, dice, templates, and Space Marines and Tyranid miniatures. The third was a limited collector's edition. \"Battle for Macragge\" was a 'game in a box', targeted primarily at beginners. \"Battle for Macragge\" was based on the Tyranid invasion of the Ultramarines' homeworld, Macragge. An expansion to this was released called \"The Battle Rages On!\", which featured new scenarios and units, like the \"Tyranid Warrior\".\n\nThe fifth edition of Warhammer 40,000 was released on July 12, 2008. While there are some differences between the fourth and fifth editions, the general rule set shares numerous similarities. Codex books designed prior to the fifth edition are still compatible with only some changes to how those armies function. The replacement for the previous edition's \"Battle for Macragge\" starter set is called \"Assault on Black Reach\", which features a pocket-sized rulebook (containing the full ruleset but omitting the background and hobby sections of the full-sized rulebook), and starter Ork and Space Marine armies. Each army contains a HQ choice, either an Ork Warboss or a Space Marine Captain.\n\nNew additions to the rules include the ability for infantry models to \"Go to Ground\" when under fire, providing additional protection at the cost of mobility and shooting as they dive for cover. Actual line of sight is needed to fire at enemy models. Also introduced is the ability to run, whereby units may forgo shooting to cover more ground. In addition, cover has been changed so that it is now easier for a unit to get a cover save. Damage to vehicles has been simplified and significantly reduced, and tanks may now ram other vehicles. Some of these rules are modeled after rules that existed in the Second Edition, but were removed in the Third. Likewise, 5th edition codexes have seen a return of many units previously cut out in the previous edition for having unwieldy rules. These units have largely been brought back with most of their old rules streamlined for the new edition. Fifth edition releases focused largely on Space Marine forces, including the abolishment of the Daemonhunters in favour of an army composed of Grey Knights, a special chapter of Space Marines, which, in previous editions, had provided the elite choices of the Daemonhunter's army list. Another major change was the shift from metal figures to Resin kits.\n\nSixth edition was released on June 23, 2012. Changes to this edition include the adoption of an optional Psychic Power card system similar to that of the game's sister product \"Warhammer Fantasy Battle\" as well as the inclusion of full rules for flying vehicles and monsters and a major reworking of the manner in which damage is resolved against vehicles. It also includes expanded rules for greater interaction with scenery and more dynamic close-combat. In addition to updating existing rules and adding new ones, 6th Edition introduced several other large changes: the Alliance system, in which players can bring units from other armies to work with their own, with varying levels of trust; the choice to take one fortification as part of your force; and Warlord traits, which will allow a player's Commander to gain a categorically randomized trait that can aid their forces in different situations. Replacing the \"Assault on Black Reach\" box set is the \"Dark Vengeance\" box set which includes Dark Angels and Chaos Space Marine models. Some of the early release box sets of Dark Vengeance contained a limited edition Interrogator-Chaplain for the Dark Angels.\n\nAnnounced in \"White Dwarf\" issue 15, pre-orders for May 17 and release date of May 24, 2014.\n\nThe 7th edition saw several major changes to the game, including a dedicated Psychic Phase, as well as the way Psychic powers worked overall, and changeable mid-game Tactical Objectives. Tactical Objectives would give the players alternate ways to score Victory Points, and thus win games. These objectives could change at different points during the game.\n\nAs well as these additions, the 7th edition provided a new way to organize Army lists. Players could play as either Battle-Forged, making a list in the same way as 6th edition, or Unbound, which allowed the player to use any models they desired, disregarding the Force Organization Chart. Bonuses are given to Battle-Forged armies. Additionally, Lord of War units, which are powerful units previously only allowed in large-scale (\"Apocalypse\") games, are now included in the standard rulebook, and are a normal part of the Force Organization Chart.\n\nAnnounced on April 22, 2017, pre-orders for June 3 and release date of June 17, 2017.\n\nThe 8th edition was a major revision of the previous edition to the game, making it easier for new players to enter the hobby and start playing. In this respect, the game introduced the Three Ways to Play concept: Open, Matched, and Narrative. The core ruleset was simplified down to 14 pages, as a free PDF booklet available on the Games Workshop website. The more complex rules still remain in the game mechanic, found in the updated hardcover Rulebook. The setting behind 8th Edition has also been updated, with the Galaxy having been split in half by the forces of Chaos and the Primarch Roboute Guilliman returning to lead the Imperium as the Lord Commander, beginning with reclaiming devastated worlds through the Indomitus Crusade.\n\nThe 8th Edition also introduced a new box set called \"Dark Imperium\", which featured a new faction, the Primaris Space Marines, as well as introducing new characters and rules to The Death Guard.\n\nThere are many variations to the rules and army lists that are available for use, typically with an opponent's consent. These rules are found in the Games Workshop publication \"White Dwarf\", on the Games Workshop website, or in the Forge World \"Imperial Armour\" publications.\n\nThe rules of \"Warhammer 40,000\" are designed for games between 500 and 2500 points, with the limits of a compositional framework called the Force Organisation Chart making games with larger point values difficult to play. In response to player comments, the \"Apocalypse\" rules expansion was introduced to allow 3000+ point games to be played. Players might field an entire 1000-man Chapter of Space Marines rather than the smaller detachment of around 30–40 typically employed in a standard game. Apocalypse also contains rules for using larger war machines such as Titans. \n\n\"Cities of Death\" (the revamp of \"Codex Battlezone: Cityfight\") introduces rules for urban warfare and guerrilla warfare, and so-called \"stratagems\", including traps and fortifications. It also has sections on modeling city terrain and provides examples of armies and army lists modeled around the theme of urban combat. This work was updated to 7th Edition with the release of Shield of Baal: Leviathan.\n\n\"Planetstrike\", released 2009, sets rules allowing players to represent the early stages of a planetary invasion. It introduces new game dynamics, such as dividing the players into an attacker and a defender, each having various tactical benefits tailored to their role; for example, the attacker may deep strike all infantry, jump infantry and monstrous creatures onto the battlefield, while the defender may set up all the terrain on the battlefield.\n\n\"Planetary Empires\", released August 2009, allows players to coordinate full-scale campaigns containing multiple battles, each using standard rules or approved supplements such as \"Planetstrike\", \"Cities of Death\" or \"Apocalypse\". Progress through the campaign is tracked using hexagonal tiles to represent the current control of territories within the campaign. The structure is similar to \"Warhammer Fantasy's Mighty Empires\".\n\n\"Battle Missions\", released March 2010, this expansion contains a series of 'missions' with specific objectives, each 'race' has three specific missions which can be played, these missions are determined by a dice roll and are usually chosen from the two armies being used. They still use the standard rules from the \"Warhammer 40,000\" rule book.\n\n\"Spearhead\", released May 2010, allows players to play games with a greater emphasis on armoured and mechanized forces. The most notable change to the game is the inclusion of special \"Spearhead Formations;\" and greater flexibility in force organization. \"Spearhead Formations\" represent a new and altogether optional addition to the force organization system standard to \"Warhammer 40,000\". Players now have the ability to use all, part or none of the standard force organization. \"Spearhead\" also includes new deployment options and game scenarios. This expansion is being released jointly through the Games Workshop website, as a free download, and through the company's monthly hobby magazine \"White Dwarf\".\n\n\"Death from the Skies\", released February 2013, contains rules for playing games with an emphasis on aircraft. There are specific rules for each race's aircraft, as well as playable missions. A notable inclusion in this release is \"warlord traits\" for each race that deal specifically with aircraft. This supplement still uses the same rules as the \"Warhammer 40,000\" rulebook. Got updated to 7th Edition with \"Shield of Baal: Leviathan\".\n\n\"Stronghold Assault\", released in December 2013, is a 48-page expansion that contains more rules for fortifications in the game, as well as rules for more fortifications that listed in the main 6th Edition Rulebook.\n\n\"Escalation\", released December 2013, contains rules for playing games with super heavy vehicles, normally restricted to Apocalypse events, in normal events.\n\nGames Workshop has expanded the \"Warhammer 40,000\" universe over the years to include several spin-off games and fictional works. This expansion began in 1987, when Games Workshop asked Scott Rohan to write the first series of \"literary tie-ins\". This eventually led to the creation of Black Library, the publishing arm of Games Workshop, in 1997. The books published relate centrally to the backstory in the \"Warhammer\" universe. Black Library also publishes \"Warhammer 40,000\" graphic novels.\n\nSeveral popular miniature game spin-offs were also created, including \"Space Crusade\", \"Space Hulk\", \"Kill Team\", \"Battlefleet Gothic\", \"Epic 40,000\", \"Inquisitor\", \"Gorkamorka\", \"Necromunda\" and \"Assassinorum: Execution Force\". A collectible card game, \"Dark Millennium\", was launched in October 2005 by Games Workshop subsidiary, Sabertooth Games. The story behind the card game begins at the end of the Horus Heresy arc in the game storyline and contains four factions: the Imperium, Orks, Eldar and Chaos.\n\nThe album \"Realms of Chaos: Slaves to Darkness\" by British death metal band Bolt Thrower features lyrics as well as artwork based on the \"Warhammer\" and \"Warhammer 40,000\" brands, with the album's title design being identical to that of the eponymous Games Workshop books.\n\nFollowing the 1987 initial release of Games Workshop's \"Warhammer 40,000\" wargame the company began publishing background literature that expands previous material, adds new material, and describes the universe, its characters, and its events in detail. Since 1997 the bulk of background literature has been published by the affiliated imprint Black Library.\n\nThe increasing number of fiction works by an expanding list of authors is published in several formats and media, including audio, digital and print. Most of the works, which include full-length novels, novellas, short stories, graphic novels, and audio dramas, are parts of named book series. In 2018, a line of novels for readers aged 8 to 12 was announced, which led to some confusion among fans given the ultra-violent and grimdark nature of the setting.\n\nGames Workshop first licensed Electronic Arts to produce \"Warhammer 40,000\" video-games, and EA published two games based on Space Hulk in 1993 and 1995. Games Workshop then passed the license to Strategic Simulations, which published three games in the late 1990s. After Strategic Simulations went defunct in 1994, Games Workshop then gave the license to THQ, and between 2003 and 2011 THQ published 13 games, which include the \"Dawn of War\" series. After 2011, Games Workshop changed its licensing strategy: instead of an exclusive license to a single publisher, it now broadly licenses a variety of publishers.\n\nAlthough there were plans to create a full-fledged Warhammer 40,000 \"pen and paper\" role-playing game from the beginning, these did not come to fruition for many years, until an official \"Warhammer 40,000\" role-playing game was published only in 2008, with the release of \"Dark Heresy\" by Black Industries, a GW subsidiary. This system was later licensed to Fantasy Flight Games for continued support and expansion.\n\nFormerly Games Workshop licensed a number of \"Warhammer 40K\" themed products to Fantasy Flight Games. Fantasy Flight Games specializes in board, card and role-play games. Included in the licensed product were:\n\nOn December 13, 2010, \"Ultramarines: A Warhammer 40,000 Movie\" was released directly to DVD. The movie is a CGI sci-fi based around the Ultramarines Chapter of Space Marines. The screenplay for the movie was written by Dan Abnett, a Games Workshop Black Library author. The movie was produced by Codex Pictures, a UK-based company, under license from Games Workshop. The movie utilized animated facial capture technology from Image Metrics.\n\n"}
{"id": "41797809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41797809", "title": "White Angolans", "text": "White Angolans\n\nThere are light-skinned or White Angolans mostly Angolans of European descent most significantly from Portugal. This population also includes White Brazilians of European Ancestry. Additional white Angolans emigrated from Eastern Europe when the country was a communist republic, in particular Russians and Poles. For a long time a significant community of Afrikaners lived in southern Angola, but most left in and after 1975.\n\nCurrently, Whites are a minority ethnic group in Angola, accounting for 1% of the country's population. The White population usually speaks Portuguese.\n\n"}
{"id": "4595519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4595519", "title": "Zuruahá language", "text": "Zuruahá language\n\nZuruahá (also called Suruaha, Suruwaha, Zuruaha, Índios do Coxodoá ) is an Arawan language spoken in Brazil by about 130 people.\n\nZuruahá is mentioned in Kaufman (1994) from personal communication from Dan Everett. He made first contact with the community (a 3-day hike from Dení territory in Amazonas state) in 1980. The language had not been studied as of 1994, but seems most similar to Deni.\n\n"}
