{"id": "32252991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32252991", "title": "Aghor Yoga", "text": "Aghor Yoga\n\nAghor Yoga (also referred to as Aghor) is a spiritual tradition that originated in Northern India around the 11th Century C.E. The word Aghor literally means \"that which is not difficult or terrible.\" Aghor is a simple and natural state of consciousness, in which there is no experience of fear, hatred, disgust or discrimination. According to Aghor Yoga, any time that humans experience a state of discrimination, we limit our wholeness and fall prey to disruptive emotions such as anger, fear, jealousy, greed, and lust. The practices of Aghor Yoga today reflect reforms made in the 1960s, shifting the focus of Aghor to seeking a balanced life of selfless service and personal practice. Baba Bhagwan Ramji encouraged the practitioners of Aghor to follow the \"left hand path\" by embracing socially stigmatized and neglected people, such as street children and people with leprosy and other \"untouchable\" diseases. Today, the followers of Aghoreshwar Bhagwan Ramji have established a large network of schools, orphanages, medical clinics, or other social service projects.\n\nThe modern teachings and practices of Aghor are known as Aghor Yoga. Aghor Yoga can be practiced by anyone without regard to religious or ethnic background and irrespective of whether s/he adopts traditional Aghori dietary practices. The essence of Aghor Yoga is that fundamentally humans are each an individual whole, at one with divine consciousness. Aghor Yoga believes that by learning to identify with one’s wholeness, one becomes free from a limited way of being. As a result, the energy that was previously invested in limitation becomes accessible for being directed towards the greater good.\n\nThe teachings and practices of Aghor defy easy categorization. Some adherents classify Aghor as a non-dualistic (advaita) Hindu philosophy. Classic nondualism explains that only the one eternal Self – alternately referred to as God, Brahman, or Atman – is real. Accordingly, Aghor believes that all of humanity is a part of this higher Self. Beyond this, everything else in the universe is mere illusion (maya).\n\nThe teachings of Aghor are meant to be universal, transcending all particularities of Hinduism or Indian culture. The contemporary Aghor lineage of Baba Kinaram includes people from many religious faiths and countries of origin, including the United States and Europe. The lineage also recognizes great spiritual beings of all religions (such as Moses, Buddha, Jesus, and Mohammed) as abiding in the realized state of Aghor – that is existing in wholeness and at one with the Divine.\n\nAghor focuses on the idea of jivanmukta, or reaching liberation from material issues in this lifetime. Thus, one does not have to die before reaching a state of Aghor.\nAny disciplined effort that one makes to connect with one’s wholeness is called sadhana (spiritual practice). A consistent effort that is in tune with human nature, simple to comprehend, and easy to practice bears fruit. Such a spiritual practice is thought to connect one with fullness, and when one is full, that fullness overflows into the outward action of seva. Seva is the selfless service one contributes to the community and world. Sadhana and seva form the two foundational aspects of the Aghor Yoga Path.\n\nA disciple of Aghor Yoga often relies on a Guru – a capable spiritual teacher – to provide guidance when forming their practice of sadhana and seva. The Aghor definition of the word Guru is \"remover of doubt.\" The Guru is meant to function both as a bridge between outward action and spiritual wisdom, as well as an example of realization of the Aghor path. One distinguishing feature of the Aghor Yoga path is that the Guru is very accessible to the students. A bridge does not just provide a means of passage between two realms of thought; it is also a lookout point from which one can see the blessings floating on a sustenance-giving river.\n\nThe Guru is also believed to reside within all beings in the form of a higher Self. In order to form a conscious connection to one’s own Self, a Guru is chosen for guidance. Eventually, it is hoped that an understanding of Gurupeeth (literally, the seat of the Guru) in oneself is formed.\n\nThere is no restriction of any kind in accepting a Guru. A Guru is a person in whose company one feels inspired and reminded of one’s divinity and wholeness. In Aghor Yoga, a Guru is commonly a person who has walked the path and is willing and available to guide the practitioner in their own practice. \nA Guru suggests a formal practice to the seeker. It is the responsibility of the seeker to cultivate their practice by aligning with the teachings. Though one is not required to follow the Guru’s exact prescriptions, it is commonly accepted that one will pay careful attention to their Guru’s teachings regarding spiritual practice and not try to modify or dilute them.\nIn Aghor Yoga the Guru instructs the seeker in the basics of sadhana (cultivation of a daily personal practice) and seva (their selfless service in the world). By incorporating the practices of sadhana and seva into everyday life, the student seeks to achieve a sense of peace and fulfillment through becoming better equipped to meet the challenges of modern life with calmness, grace and skill.\n\nThe Guru starts the practitioner on the path of Aghor Yoga through formal initiation by giving a personal mantra (a sound, syllable, or group of words that, with repetition, become spiritually transformative). In Aghor Yoga, one’s mantra is regarded as a personal friend with its own personality, presence and characteristic. A mantra is also a thread that connects the practitioner with the spiritual powerhouse of all the enlightened beings from the Aghor lineage, thus the practitioner gains a sense of belonging to the family of enlightened beings. It is said, \"You are never alone after receiving a mantra.\" Developing a friendship with one’s mantra becomes the preoccupation of the practitioner.\n\nStudents of the Aghor Yoga tradition seek to attain Aghor, a state of consciousness in which one does not experience fear, hatred, disgust, discrimination, or hunger. One who achieves Aghor does not view the world in dualistic terms such as \"dead\" and \"alive\" or \"edible\" and \"inedible\", and so does not cast judgment upon themselves or others. A person who conscientiously practices these virtues is called an Aughar.\n\nWith constant practice, when one is established unwaveringly in the state of Aghor consciousness, a person becomes an Avadhut – a spiritually realized human being. Anyone from any religious, spiritual or ethnic background who has come to abide in the state of Aghor consciousness, regardless of the path that led to this state, is an Avadhut.\n\nThe term \"Aghor\" has ancient origins which likely precede written history. One of the five faces of Shiva was known as Aghor. In the Shiva Purana, one of India’s oldest legends, there is a hymn to the glory of Shiva by Pushpadanta, head of the Gandharva clan, called the Shiva Mahimnah Stotram. One of its Sanskrit verses reads:\n\nThe translation is: The very name of Aghor (Shiva, or the one who has attained the state of Aghor) is a mantra that is above all other mantras. There is nothing higher to be known than the real nature of the Guru (spiritual teacher). Thus, the hagiographic roots of the Aghor tradition are traced to Lord Dattatreya, an avatar of Shiva.\n\nAghor tradition believes that Jagadguru Dattatreya propounded the tradition of Aghor later followed in the sixteenth century by the great saint Baba Kinaram. The life story of Baba Kinaram tells of his wandering for years until he attained complete knowledge upon encountering Bhagwan Dattatreya, who appeared to him in the Girnar Mountains, a holy place in Gujarat state in northwest India.\n\nLater in his life, Baba Kinaram settled in the holy city of Varanasi and wrote a book called \"Viveksar\", recognized now as the most authentic treatise on the principles of Aghor. He claimed that the contents of \"Viveksar\" were revealed to him by Lord Dattatreya. Through this revelation, he saw that the whole world, the whole universe, is situated in each human body, a vast world perfect in all respects. Baba Kinaram later established an ashram in Varanasi, called Krim Kund. He initiated many social reforms during the tumultuous times of the Moghul invasion when the Indian people were being persecuted. The early devotees of Aghor comprised a diffuse network of wandering ascetics who passed down their beliefs and practices through oral teaching in many different lineages.\n\nIn the 1960s, the then-guru of the Baba Kina Ram lineage, Baba Bhagwan Ramji (1937-1992), instituted reforms of the Aghor tradition, banning taboo substances such as alcohol, marijuana, and ashes. Baba Bhagwan Ramji \"challenged his devotees to embrace polluted people instead of polluted substances.\" Aghor instead became focused on social reform, maintaining a left-hand path of spirituality by helping people who have been shunned from mainstream society, such as lepers and orphans.\n\nWhen Baba Bhagwan Ramji attained Aghor in this lineage, he was compared to Baba Kinaram because he had a strong sense of social responsibility, identifying himself with suffering humanity. Numerous accounts describe how he helped struggling people to battle social injustices.\n\nThe direct lineage of the twelve Aghoreshwars that began with Bhagwan Dattatreya extends from the sixteenth century until the present day.\n\n\nThe Aghor tradition, which originated as confined and reclusive, has transformed since Baba Bhagwan Ramji’s reforms to Aghor Yoga practices. By changing practices that have traditionally been shunned by conventional norms, Aghor Yoga now has entered mainstream society. Today, Aghor Yoga focuses upon forming a balanced personal practice, placing importance on both sadhana (one’s own spiritual practice) as well as seva (selfless service).\n\nRecognizing the need for change within his society, Baba Bhagwan Ramji renewed the socially conscious spirit of Baba Kinaram when he established a new ashram named Awadhut Bhagwan Ram Kusht Sewa Ashram (The Awadhut Bhagwan Ram Leprosy Service Ashram) at Parao, Varanasi. Baba Bhagwan Ramji dedicated Parao Ashram to helping the poor and the afflicted, and included a leprosy hospital within the ashram grounds. By shifting Aghor Yoga’s focus to helping those who are suffering within society, Baba Bhagwan Ramji modernized the ancient Aghor tradition.\n\nIn order to maintain the continuum of the Aghor tradition, Baba Bhagwan Ramji initiated one of his disciples, Baba Siddharth Gautam Ram, to be the head of Krim Kund and of the Aghor lineage. The Krim Kund and Parao ashrams are situated on the opposite sides of the Ganges River in Varanasi, India.\n\nBaba Bhagwan Ramji also established Sri Sarveshwari Samooh Ashram, a secular social service organization that has worked throughout northern India. The Aghor lineage now includes many Ashrams in various locations in India and a number of centers and Ashrams in other countries.\n\nDuring his life, Aghoreshwar Bhagwan Ramji also guided the reform of ancient Kina Ram Aghori practices.\n\nAll of the ashrams started by Baba Bhagwan Ramji and his disciples around the world are continually dedicated to service. Contemporary Aghor practices focus especially on providing help and services to those who are downtrodden.\n\nSri Sarveshwari Samooh Ashram remains invested in social issues, notably working to eliminate the dowry system, offering free leprosy treatment, and providing free schooling for impoverished children.\n\nThe Sonoma Ashram in Sonoma, California, founded in 1990, is the current seat of Aghor Yoga in the United States. The mission of Sonoma Ashram is to foster spiritual growth in individuals.\n\nThe Sonoma Ashram’s sister ashram, Aghor Foundation, was established in 2001 on the bank of the Ganges River in the Varanasi, India and offers a safe home for orphaned and abandoned children. The Aghor Foundation also operates other social service projects, including the Anjali School, a tuition-free school for neighborhood children living in poverty and Vision Varanasi, a free eye clinic. Notably, The Aghor Foundation also runs Project Shakti, which offers vocational training for underprivileged women in Varanasi. The Aghor Foundation recently began to construct the Amrit Sagar Environmental Center, \"a working model of the best environmental practices and a teaching center demonstrating… sustainable practices.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "466128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=466128", "title": "Alberto de Angelis", "text": "Alberto de Angelis\n\nAlberto de Angelis (born 1885) was an Italian writer mostly remembered for writing a biography of Domenico Mustafà, entitled \"Domenico Mustafa – La Cappella Sistina e la Società Musicale Romana\".\n\nThe book was published in 1926, and is considered of significant importance for its valuable account of Mustafa's life, the musical society in Rome and the other castrati singers at the Capella Sistina.\n"}
{"id": "3023772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3023772", "title": "Astrology software", "text": "Astrology software\n\nAstrology software is a type of computer programs designed to calculate horoscopes. Many of them also assemble interpretive text into narrative reports.\n\nAstro Computing Services (ACS) in San Diego, founded by Neil Michelsen in 1973, published a computer-generated astrological ephemeris in 1976, \"The American Ephemeris\".\n\nWhen personal computers generally became available, astrologers and astrology hobbyists were able to purchase them and use astrological or astronomical calculation software or make such programs themselves. Astrologer and computer programmer Michael Erlewine was involved early in making astrological software for microcomputers available to the general public in the late 1970s. In 1978, Erlewine founded Matrix Software, and in 1980 he published a book with all the algorithms and data required for owners of microcomputers to make their own complete astrological programs.\nAt first, astrology software was opposed by American astrologers who did not approve of computers in their field. However, acceptance grew as it became clear how more efficient and profitable such software could be.\n\nA few hundred fixed-purpose astrology computers were made, one of which was used by Nancy Reagan's astrologer beginning in about 1981.\n\nAstrology software has been made available in the open-source model, starting with the release of Astrolog in 1991. Another open astrology project is \"OpenAstro.org\".\n\nComputer astrology programs today typically make accurate planet position calculations, display and print these positions using astrological glyph symbols in graphic charts, save and retrieve individuals' data to and from database files, compare the planet positions of different charts to find the astrological aspects between them (e.g. for compatibility), calculate the dates of important events in the future for a chart, and research the saved chart database. Some generate colorful geographical maps with lines showing where the planets rise and culminate at a significant time, usually the time of birth or the time of inception of an organization (called astrocartography). Astrology programs usually come bundled with an electronic atlas, allowing the review of the longitudes, latitudes, and time zone observance histories for cities and towns. Many assemble interpretive text about the various element combinations in a chart into comprehensive printed reports.\n\n"}
{"id": "22936681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22936681", "title": "Atash Behram", "text": "Atash Behram\n\nAn Atash Behram (Fire of Victory) is the highest grade of a fire that can be placed in a (Zoroastrian) fire temple. The establishment and consecration of this fire is the most elaborate of all the grades of fire. It involves the gathering of 16 different types of fire, including lightning, fire from a cremation pyre, fire from trades where a furnace is operated, and fires from the hearths as is also the case for the Atash Adaran. Each of the 16 fires is then subject to a purification ritual before it joins the others. 32 priests are required for the consecration ceremony, which can take up to a year to complete.\n\nThe 16 types of fire required for an Atash Behram are:\n\nThis is a list of Atash Behrams that still survive today.\n"}
{"id": "15349968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15349968", "title": "Bahá'í Faith in Australia", "text": "Bahá'í Faith in Australia\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith has a long history in Australia. The first known mention of events related to the history of the religion was several reports in Australian newspapers in 1846. After sporadic mentions a turning point was a mention of Australia by `Abdu'l-Bahá, the son of the founder of the religion, in 1916 following which United Kingdom/American emigrants John and Clara Dunn came to Australia in 1920. They found people willing to convert to the Bahá'í Faith in several cities while further immigrant Bahá'ís also arrived. The first Local Spiritual Assembly was elected in Melbourne followed by the first election of the National Spiritual Assembly in 1934. Iranian Bahá'ís had first tried to emigrate to Australia in 1948 but were rejected as \"Asiatic\" by Australia's White Australia policy. Though the situation was eased in the 1960s and 70s, on the eve of Iranian revolution, in 1978, there were approximately 50-60 Persian Bahá'í families in Australia. Persians, including Bahá'ís, arrived in number following the revolution. See persecution of Bahá'ís in Iran. Since the 1980s the Bahá'ís of Australia have become involved and spoken out on a number of civic issues - from interfaith initiative such as \"Soul Food\" to conferences on indigenous issues and national policies of equal rights and pay for work. The community was counted by census in 2001 to be about 11000 individuals and includes some well known people (see below - National exposure.) The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on \"World Christian Encyclopedia\") estimated some 17,700 Bahá'ís in 2005, and over 19,300 in 2010. However, census data from 2016 reported a much lower population of only 13,988.\n\nThe first known mention of events related to the history of the religion was several reports in Australian newspapers in 1846:\n\nThese were reprints of an 1845 article in the London \"Times\" which relied on Muslim reactions to the new religion. The next known news story covering events in Bahá'í history was in The Argus, 4 November 1850 in Melbourne which briefly mentions it. In 1853 there was an event with caused great suffering among the Babís (whom Bahá'ís regard as spiritual precursors of their religion.) The Babís were blamed for an attempted assassination of the Shah of Persia. Recent scholarship has identified a fringe element distinct from all the major aspects of the religion, its community and leadership at the time, as actually being responsible. Nevertheless, coverage in newspapers at the time often echoed the Persian government's view blaming the Babís and Babís in large numbers were in fact executed as a result.\n\n`Abdu'l-Bahá wrote a series of letters, or tablets, to the followers of the religion in the United States in 1916-1917; these letters were compiled in \"Tablets of the Divine Plan\". The seventh and eighth of the tablets was the first to mention taking the Bahá'í Faith to Australia and was written on 11 and 19 April 1916, but was delayed in being presented in the United States until 1919 — after the end of World War I and the Spanish flu. These tablets were translated and presented by Mirza Ahmad Sohrab on 4 April 1919, and published in \"Star of the West\" magazine on 12 December 1919.\n\n(Tablet 7) \"The moment this divine Message is carried forward by the American believers from the shores of America and is propagated through the continents of Europe, of Asia, of Africa and of Australasia, and as far as the islands of the Pacific, this community will find itself securely established upon the throne of an everlasting dominion..., if some teachers go to other islands and other parts, such as the continent of Australia, New Zealand, Tasmania, also to Japan, Asiatic Russia, Korea, French Indochina, Siam, Straits Settlements, India, Ceylon and Afghanistan, most great results will be forthcoming.\"\n\n(Tablet 8) \"The teachers traveling in different directions must know the language of the country in which they will enter.… In short, after this universal war, the people have obtained extraordinary capacity to hearken to the divine teachings, for the wisdom of this war is this: That it may become proven to all that the fire of war is world-consuming, whereas the rays of peace are world-enlightening.… Consequently, a number of souls may arise and … and hasten to all parts of the world, especially from America to Europe, Africa, Asia and Australia, and travel through Japan and China.\"\n\nIn 1920 Englishman John Hyde Dunn, and his Irish wife, Clara, sailed to Australia from the United States where they each had emigrated, converted to the religion, met and married. They stopped briefly in Samoa along the way. They were first Bahá'ís to set foot in Australia. In 1922 the first Australians joined the religion. They were Oswald Whitaker, a Sydney optometrist, and Effie Baker, a Melbourne photographer who were members of different metaphysical groups. News of John Esslemont's 1915 declaration of faith, and his forthcoming book Bahá'u'lláh and the New Era, had also spread to some of his associates, William and Annie Miller in Australia who then became Bahá'ís in the 1920s. Melbourne Bahá'ís elected their first Local Spiritual Assembly, the first one of all Australia, in 1923 mostly from single or widowed women. The community struggled to maintain itself for a number of years. The second assembly of Australia was elected in Perth in 1924. World traveling Martha Root spoke at many public meetings on a visit to Melbourne in 1924 and again in 1939. In 1925 Effie Baker left other Australian converts as well as a contingent from New Zealand for trip on pilgrimage where they stayed some 19 days and then visited with the community of the Bahá'í Faith in the United Kingdom. The news journal \"Herald of the South\" was begun publishing for New Zealand and Australia during their voyage out of Auckland (transferred publishing to Adelaide Australia in 1931 and then carried on by the national assembly from about 1945.) The Dunns and Martha Root also visited Hobart in Tasmania during which Gretta Lamprill converted and continued to sustain the religion on the island - eventually she was elected to the National Spiritual Assembly and later was named a Knight of Bahá'u'lláh together with Glad Parke, who travelled with her to the Society Islands (now French Polynesia) in the Eastern Pacific Ocean. During Roots subsequent visits each time the Bahá'í community grew in Tasmania.\n\nFollowing a temporary move of Margaret Dixson to Sydney from Melbourne who helped elect the first local spiritual assembly of Sydney in 1925 (eventually Margaret Dixson, an early Esperantist pioneered to Brisbane, and Adelaide.) While many of the early converts refused to stay Bahá'ís when pressed to leave their former associations many others did join the religion. By 1928 a list shows Australia with 6 local spiritual assemblies each with 9 members plus the general community. There was a 1929 notice in the \"Sydney Morning Herald\" of a talk on `Abdu'l-Bahá.\n\nSoon Bahá'í groups sprang up around the country. By 1934 there were enough Bahá'ís to elect a national governing body, the first National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá'ís of Australia and New Zealand. The delegates were: Robert Brown, Silver Jackman, Hilda Brooks; A.O. Whittaker, Hyde Dunn, Olive Routh; and from New Zealand Mrs. E. Axford, Ethel Blundell, and Margaret Stevenson. During the 1940s there was opposition published to the religion. The first secretary of the national assembly, Hilda Brooks, wrote many responses to various public attacks. For 6 weeks in 1943 the editor of the \"Mittagong Star\" entertained an exchange of letters to the editor between her and a Catholic priest and scholar who had chosen to describe the religion as an outgrowth of Islam. That same year the \"Sydney Morning Herald\" listed several talks by Baha'is. In 1945 she responded to remarks of a former missionary to Iran, in Adelaide's \"Church Guardian\". In 1957 New Zealand separated to form its own National Assembly. The National Assembly established the \"Bahá'í Quarterly\" publication in 1936. The first pioneer to reach New Caledonia was Australia's Margaret Rowling in early 1952. Lilian Wyss pioneered to Western Samoa from Australia in January 1954 leaving behind a position on the National Spiritual Assembly of Australia at the age of 24 while her brother, Frank Wyss, introduced the religion that year to the Cocos Island. For their service, Shoghi Effendi awarded both of them the accolade of Knight of Bahá'u'lláh. In 1955 Fred Murray of South Australia was among the first Aboriginal people to become a Bahá'í. After decades of service in the Australian community, Collis Featherstone was distinguished by being appointed as a Hand of the Cause of God in 1957 (d.1990) and he and four other Hands were present at the first international conference hosted by the Australian Bahá'í community in March 1958 when almost 200 Bahá'ís from 17 Bahá'í communities gathered: Iran, Pakistan, (S) Korea, Japan, Southeast Asia, Tonga, New Guinea, Papua, New Hebrides, New Caledonia, Solomon Islands, Samoa, Cook Islands, Fiji, New Zealand, Formosa, and the United States. Part of the ceremonies carried out was the dedication of the Temple site.\n\nSince its inception the religion has had involvement in socio-economic development beginning by giving greater freedom to women, promulgating the promotion of female education as a priority concern, and that involvement was given practical expression by creating schools, agricultural coops, and clinics. In 1937, one hundred delegates and observers attending the national Bahá'í convention in Sydney celebrated the founding of the Yerrinbool Bahá'í School which was next to \"Bolton Place\" founded just the year before. Kitchen and dining facilities were added in 1946. In 1947 non-Bahá'í speakers Harold Morton, a Sydney radio announcer, and Muslim Fazel (Frank) Khan presented at the school and the Khan family converted shortly thereafter. By 1963 the Yerrinbool Bahá'í School was wholly owned and managed by the National Spiritual Assembly. The second national youth conference was held at Yerrinbool in 1970 and succeeding youth conferences were held in Canberra (1972), Adelaide (1973), Perth (1974), Canberra (1975), Brisbane (1976), Sydney (1977), Hobart (1978), and Melbourne (1979). In 1983 the schools program included summer, spring and autumn schools, three deepening institutes, an annual studies conference, a \"Third World Awareness\" weekend sponsored by the Sydney Bahá'í youth, Bahá'ís studies conferences sponsored by the University of Tasmania Bahá'í Society which lead to the initial formation of the Association for Bahá'í Studies chapter in Australia whose first meeting was at Yerrinbool. More recently, Yerringbool Bahá'í School was formally registered as a not-for-profit college in Australia under the name of Yerringbool Bahá'í Center for Learning Ltd. (YBCL) which operates two divisions of Education for Peace Institute of Australia, and Yerrinbool College.\n\nBahá'ís in Brisbane were established as early as 1928 but it wasn't until 1949 that a local spiritual assembly was elected. A Baha’i Society was established on the campus of the University of Queensland in 1961. By 1978 there were Local Assemblies in Albert Shire, Brisbane, Gold Coast, Mornington Island and Palm Island, Pioneer Shire, Redland Shire, Toowoomba and Townsville, as well as groups in Gympie, Ipswich, Mackay, Mulgrave Shire, Murweh Shire, Noosa Shire, Rockhampton Wondai Shire and Caboolture in 1983. In 1987, local assemblies in Queensland numbered 25.\n\nRefocussing attention on the Melbourne community active projects were initiated and the assembly was reformed in 1948. The members of that local spiritual assembly were Emily and Cyril Easey, Ron Cover and his mother Irene Cover, Freda Adams, Mrs E. Bennett, Madam Holden-Graham, Eleanor Wheeler, and Vi Hoehnke and by 1953 communities near Melbourne included Ballarat and Geelong however reorganizing along civic boundaries in 1957 spit the Melbourne community into Melbourne, Camberwell, Malvern, Caufield, Oakleigh, Mordialloc and Brighton.\n\nIn an atmosphere of growing tension over war, in October 1940 Gretta Lamprill in Tasmania was visited by government officers seeking information about the group's activities and from then on the Bahá'ís consciously sought out collaboration with like-minded social movements and involved academics and outstanding public figures of the day in their public meetings. In 1945 the only group of Bahá'ís in Tasmania were in Hobart - consisting of six people. By 1949 the Hobart community was able to elect its local spiritual assembly with founding members of Frank & Myra Brown, Mabel Bailey, Kit Crowder, Eileen Costello, Katherine Harcus, Gretta Lamprill, Katie Pharaoh, and Ben Raynor. Shirin Fozdar visited Tasmania in September 1952 for several talks before going on to introduce the religion to Vietnam in 1954. In 1958 the Hobart community hosted a Tasmanian Bahá'í conference with representatives from Launceston, Clarence, and Glenorchy in June 1957.\n\nIn 1982, the Canberra Bahá'í community was one of five communities asked by the Universal House of Justice to host a conference in commemoration of the 50th anniversary of the death of Bahiyyih Khánum.\n\nIn 1948, Iranian Bahá'ís seeking to emigrate to Australia were classified as \"Asiatic\" by Australia's White Australia policy, and were denied entry and the policy largely remained in place until the 1960s and was lifted in 1973. The size and diversity of the community was boosted in the 1980s when Australia opened its doors to those fleeing the resurgence of persecution of Bahá'ís in Iran, characterized as a diaspora. In 1981 the Minister for Immigration announced a Special Humanitarian Assistance Program for Iranians to seek refuge in Australia. By 1986, 538 Persian Bahá'ís had entered Australia under the program, and by 1988, some 2,500 had arrived in Australia through either the Assistance or Refugee Programs. Together with Persians already living in Australia, Persian constituted 38% of the Australian Bahá'í community where majorities of Iranians formed in 59 of 169 Bahá'í communities that had local assemblies, and in 19 Bahá'í communities, more than 75% of the members were Persian. See also Iranian Australians.\n\nThe Bahá'í House of Worship in Sydney was dedicated on 17 September 1961 and opened to the public after four years of construction. The initial design by Charles Mason Remey was approved in 1957 with seating for six hundred people. The building stands 38 metres in height, has a diameter at its widest point of 20 metres, and is a highly visible landmark from Sydney's northern beaches. It's surrounded by gardens contain native plants including waratahs, several grevillea including the unique caleyi, Australian wattle (Acacia) and woody pear, plus three species of eucalypts. Other buildings located on the site include a visitor's centre, bookshop, picnic area, hostel, caretaker's cottage, and the administrative offices of the Australian Bahá'í community. The property is set high in a natural bushland setting of 380,000 square metres (38 hectares) in Ingleside, a northern suburb overlooking the Pacific Ocean. This Temple serves as the Mother Temple of Australia.\n\nSix conferences held in October 1967 around the world presented a viewing of a copy of the photograph of Bahá'u'lláh on the highly significant occasion commemorating the centenary of Bahá'u'lláh's writing of the \"Suriy-i-Mulúk\" (Tablet to the Kings), which Shoghi Effendi describes as \"the most momentous Tablet revealed by Bahá'u'lláh\". After a meeting in Edirne (Adrianople), Turkey, the Hands of the Cause travelled to the conferences, 'each bearing the precious trust of a photograph of the Blessed Beauty, which it will be the privilege of those attending the Conferences to view.' Hand of the Cause Ugo Giachery conveyed this photograph to the Conference for Australasia at Australia at the House of Worship.\n\nThe Bahá'ís of Australia have taken up efforts in a number of interests - internal and with respect to the civic discourse in Australia. In 1975 the Australian Bahá'í Publishing Trust was established and in 1984 the Australian branch of the Association of Bahá'í Studies was formed. Representing the religion to the broader public the Bahá'ís developed a voluntary program in Australian public/state schools for 30 minutes a week on religious classes (called Special Religious Education, open to all religions.) The Bahá'ís developed a \"Peace Pack\" that was approved by the State's Department of Education and Training starting in the 1980s. Some 6,000 primary school children, about 10% of Bahá'í families, among more than 300 state-run schools attended in 2007. And informally since 2002 the Bahá'ís of Adelaide, (and formally since 2003 by the Adelaide Local Spiritual Assembly) has run the \"Soul Food\" event - a once a month 1 hour program of readings from religious and non-religious texts mixed with music performed by a variety of Adelaide’s professional musicians in the Art Gallery of South Australia’s Auditorium during which no financial contribution is asked for or accepted and no promotions are permitted. The event has since developed similar events in other locations in Australia.\n\nThe religion entered a new phase of activity when a message of the Universal House of Justice dated 20 October 1983 was released. Bahá'ís were urged to seek out ways, compatible with the Bahá'í teachings, in which they could become involved in the social and economic development of the communities in which they lived. Worldwide in 1979 there were 129 officially recognized Bahá'í socio-economic development projects. By 1987, the number of officially recognized development projects had increased to 1482.\n\nFor the International Year of Indigenous Peoples and the Australian Association for Baha'i Studies set their annual conference in 1993 (at Queensland University) on an Indigenous related theme on building a positive understanding of Native title. In 1993 the Arrernte tribe co-sponsors an intercultural celebration, \"Heart of Australia Calling\". In 1997 the Association for Baha'i Studies produced a book \"Indigenous Peoples: In the Wake of Mabo\" as a followup (see Mabo v Queensland.) In closing the UN International Decade of Indigenous Peoples (1993–2004) it held another conference (at Macquarie University) but this time ensuring as great a level of participation by Indigenous participants and keynote speakers and as many female participants and keynote speakers as possible and other similar priorities in order that the views and needs of Indigenous Peoples could be seriously heard and discussed and of practical benefit.\n\nIn 2003 the Australian Bahá’í Community testified in support of Australian Human Rights Commission Legislation Bill of 2003 suggesting that reviews of its provisions should be considered in light of the Paris Principles. In 2005 it testified to the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission of Australia making suggestions on a variety of issues affecting the challenges to equal rights and work/employment and pay for work. In 2007 YWCA Australia's WomenSpeak Network submitted a paper to the Australian Government through the Federal Office for Women to delegations addressing the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women. Their statement mentions that most women’s groups didn't believe the role of men and boys in achieving gender equality caught the imagination of many of the organisations\ninvolved in the WomenSpeak Network. They specified a notable exception of this position is of the Australian Bahá'í Community Office of Equality in that many men in the Bahá'í community play an active role in working towards gender equality.\n\nFrom the 1980s onward various personalities associated with the Bahá'í Faith have been national figures in Australia. Combined with the swelling membership the religion has emerged from obscurity in Australia on national level. The first mark of this emergence is probably graduate of the University of Sydney, Tom Price. He was musical director of the Sydney Bahá'í Temple Choir in Australia for 14 years and became well known in Australia when he produced and co-wrote the double-platinum \"Bad Habits\" album by singer Billy Field, which was the largest selling album in Australia in 1981. Price went on eventually to be director of the 420-voice choir and 90-piece symphony orchestra for the second Bahá'í World Congress in New York in 1992 and many other notable events.In 1986 Jack Malardy and his wife, tribal leaders of the Karadjari, joined the religion. In the mid and late 1990s Cathy Freeman added some awareness of the religion in Australia as an Aboriginal Olympic medalist who grew up as a Bahá'í. In 2001 the 2nd edition of A Practical Reference to Religious Diversity for Operational Police and Emergency Services added the Bahá'í Faith in its coverage of religions in Australia. A TV medical-drama called \"MDA - Medical Defense Australia\", which went on the air on 23 July 2002 through 2005 with an ongoing Bahá'í character, Layla Young, played by a non-Bahá'í actress Petra Yared. And Luke McPharlin has been visible as a distinguished Australian footballer who mentioned his spiritual beliefs in his reasons for his sportsmanship. In 2015 news articles appeared covering an various people - a singer, a refugee family, and a community elder.\n\nThe 1996 Australian Census lists Bahá'í membership at just under 9 thousand Bahá'ís and in 2001 edition noted the community had grown to over 11 thousand. The Association of Religion Data Archives (relying on \"World Christian Encyclopedia\") estimated some 17,700 Bahá'ís in 2005, and over 19,300 in 2010. However, census data from 2016 reported a much lower population of only 13,988.\n\nThe community of Whitehorse had some 200 Bahá'ís in 2008. In 1998 Bahá'ís in the state of Victoria celebrated their 75th anniversary and counted approximately 1600 adults, youth, and children, organised in more than 50 communities, with 29 local assemblies in the Melbourne metropolitan area with public events where hundreds of people come.\n\nIn 2008 the Tasmanian Bahá'í community neared the opening of its Bahá'í Center in Hobart with assemblies in Clarence, Devonport, Glenorchy, Kingborough and Launceston and more than 300 on the island.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48060346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48060346", "title": "Baojuan", "text": "Baojuan\n\nBaojuan (宝卷 \"bǎojuǎn\"), literally precious scrolls, are a genre of prosimetric texts (texts written in an alternation of prose and verse) of a religious or mystical nature, produced within the context of Chinese folk religion and individual Chinese folk religious sects. They are often written in vernacular Chinese and recount the mythology surrounding a deity or a hero, or constitute the theological and philosophical scriptures of organised folk sects.\n\nThe modern study of “precious scrolls” (\"baojuan\" 寶卷) can be said to begin with the publication by Zheng Zhenduo 鄭振鐸 of his “Foqu xulu” 佛曲敘錄, which is a catalogue of Buddhist songs. In 1927 in Zhongguo wenxue yanjiu 中國文學研究 [Studies on Chinese Literature].\n\n"}
{"id": "52279970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52279970", "title": "Ecumenical Association of Third World Theologians", "text": "Ecumenical Association of Third World Theologians\n\nThe Ecumenical Association of Third World Theologians (EATWOT) is a network of theologians coming primarily from Africa, Asia, and Latin America and interested in creating theology that is relevant for their contexts. The group tended to critique traditional Christian theology as being too European and underscored the need for theology that addressed the challenges of poverty and oppression.\n\nO. K. Bimwenyi from the Democratic Republic of the Congo was one of the key figures of the formation of EATWOT. While Bimwenyi was studying in Catholic University of Louvain, he visited the general meeting of the Sisters of the Immaculate Heart of Mary in India in December 1974 and discussed the need for a network of theologians to address the pressing concerns of poverty and oppression in the third world.\n\nIn 1976, the first official meeting of EATWOT would be held in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania with Joshua Russell Chandran as its first president until 1981. From this early start, the organization would produce a bi-annually published theological journal entitled \"Voices from the Third World\".\n\nIn the beginning, the organization would not allow women to be members. It would only be at the New Delhi meeting in 1981 that women were beginning to be allowed to have a voice in EATWOT. Female figures such as Virginia Fabella and Mercy Amba Oduyoye, the latter who eventually became EATWOT's first female president (1997–2001), would continually challenge the absence of female leadership in the global church and in EATWOT. These efforts would result in the formation of the Women's Commission of EATWOT.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4699587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4699587", "title": "Fish", "text": "Fish\n\nFish are gill-bearing aquatic craniate animals that lack limbs with digits. They form a sister group to the tunicates, together forming the olfactores. Included in this definition are the living hagfish, lampreys, and cartilaginous and bony fish as well as various extinct related groups. Tetrapods emerged within lobe-finned fishes, so cladistically they are fish as well. However, traditionally fish are rendered paraphyletic by excluding the tetrapods (i.e., the amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals which all descended from within the same ancestry). Because in this manner the term \"fish\" is defined negatively as a paraphyletic group, it is not considered a formal taxonomic grouping in systematic biology, unless it is used in the cladistic sense, including tetrapods. The traditional term pisces (also ichthyes) is considered a typological, but not a phylogenetic classification.\n\nThe earliest organisms that can be classified as fish were soft-bodied chordates that first appeared during the Cambrian period. Although they lacked a true spine, they possessed notochords which allowed them to be more agile than their invertebrate counterparts. Fish would continue to evolve through the Paleozoic era, diversifying into a wide variety of forms. Many fish of the Paleozoic developed external armor that protected them from predators. The first fish with jaws appeared in the Silurian period, after which many (such as sharks) became formidable marine predators rather than just the prey of arthropods.\n\nMost fish are ectothermic (\"cold-blooded\"), allowing their body temperatures to vary as ambient temperatures change, though some of the large active swimmers like white shark and tuna can hold a higher core temperature.\n\nFish can communicate in their underwater environments through the use of acoustic communication. Acoustic communication in fish involves the transmission of acoustic signals from one individual of a species to another. The production of sounds as a means of communication among fish is most often used in the context of feeding, aggression or courtship behaviour. The sounds emitted by fish can vary depending on the species and stimulus involved. They can produce either stridulatory sounds by moving components of the skeletal system, or can produce non-stridulatory sounds by manipulating specialized organs such as the swimbladder.\n\nFish are abundant in most bodies of water. They can be found in nearly all aquatic environments, from high mountain streams (e.g., char and gudgeon) to the abyssal and even hadal depths of the deepest oceans (e.g., gulpers and anglerfish), although no species has yet been documented in the deepest 25% of the ocean. With 33,600 described species, fish exhibit greater species diversity than any other group of vertebrates.\n\nFish are an important resource for humans worldwide, especially as food. Commercial and subsistence fishers hunt fish in wild fisheries (see fishing) or farm them in ponds or in cages in the ocean (see aquaculture). They are also caught by recreational fishers, kept as pets, raised by fishkeepers, and exhibited in public aquaria. Fish have had a role in culture through the ages, serving as deities, religious symbols, and as the subjects of art, books and movies.\n\nFish do not represent a monophyletic group, and therefore the \"evolution of fish\" is not studied as a single event.\n\nEarly fish from the fossil record are represented by a group of small, jawless, armored fish known as ostracoderms. Jawless fish lineages are mostly extinct. An extant clade, the lampreys may approximate ancient pre-jawed fish. The first jaws are found in Placodermi fossils. The diversity of jawed vertebrates may indicate the evolutionary advantage of a jawed mouth. It is unclear if the advantage of a hinged jaw is greater biting force, improved respiration, or a combination of factors.\n\nFish may have evolved from a creature similar to a coral-like sea squirt, whose larvae resemble primitive fish in important ways. The first ancestors of fish may have kept the larval form into adulthood (as some sea squirts do today), although perhaps the reverse is the case.\n\nFish are a paraphyletic group: that is, any clade containing all fish also contains the tetrapods, which are not fish. For this reason, groups such as the \"Class Pisces\" seen in older reference works are no longer used in formal classifications.\nTraditional classification divides fish into three extant classes, and with extinct forms sometimes classified within the tree, sometimes as their own classes:\n\nThe above scheme is the one most commonly encountered in non-specialist and general works. Many of the above groups are paraphyletic, in that they have given rise to successive groups: Agnathans are ancestral to Chondrichthyes, who again have given rise to Acanthodiians, the ancestors of Osteichthyes. With the arrival of phylogenetic nomenclature, the fishes has been split up into a more detailed scheme, with the following major groups:\n\n† – indicates extinct taxonSome palaeontologists contend that because Conodonta are chordates, they are primitive fish. For a fuller treatment of this taxonomy, see the vertebrate article.\n\nThe position of hagfish in the phylum Chordata is not settled. Phylogenetic research in 1998 and 1999 supported the idea that the hagfish and the lampreys form a natural group, the Cyclostomata, that is a sister group of the Gnathostomata.\n\nThe various fish groups account for more than half of vertebrate species. There are almost 28,000 known extant species, of which almost 27,000 are bony fish, with 970 sharks, rays, and chimeras and about 108 hagfish and lampreys. A third of these species fall within the nine largest families; from largest to smallest, these families are Cyprinidae, Gobiidae, Cichlidae, Characidae, Loricariidae, Balitoridae, Serranidae, Labridae, and Scorpaenidae. About 64 families are monotypic, containing only one species. The final total of extant species may grow to exceed 32,500.\n\nThe term \"fish\" most precisely describes any non-tetrapod craniate (i.e. an animal with a skull and in most cases a backbone) that has gills throughout life and whose limbs, if any, are in the shape of fins. Unlike groupings such as birds or mammals, fish are not a single clade but a paraphyletic collection of taxa, including hagfishes, lampreys, sharks and rays, ray-finned fish, coelacanths, and lungfish. Indeed, lungfish and coelacanths are closer relatives of tetrapods (such as mammals, birds, amphibians, etc.) than of other fish such as ray-finned fish or sharks, so the last common ancestor of all fish is also an ancestor to tetrapods. As paraphyletic groups are no longer recognised in modern systematic biology, the use of the term \"fish\" as a biological group must be avoided.\n\nMany types of aquatic animals commonly referred to as \"fish\" are not fish in the sense given above; examples include shellfish, cuttlefish, starfish, crayfish and jellyfish. In earlier times, even biologists did not make a distinction – sixteenth century natural historians classified also seals, whales, amphibians, crocodiles, even hippopotamuses, as well as a host of aquatic invertebrates, as fish. However, according to the definition above, all mammals, including cetaceans like whales and dolphins, are not fish. In some contexts, especially in aquaculture, the true fish are referred to as finfish (or fin fish) to distinguish them from these other animals.\n\nA typical fish is ectothermic, has a streamlined body for rapid swimming, extracts oxygen from water using gills or uses an accessory breathing organ to breathe atmospheric oxygen, has two sets of paired fins, usually one or two (rarely three) dorsal fins, an anal fin, and a tail fin, has jaws, has skin that is usually covered with scales, and lays eggs.\n\nEach criterion has exceptions. Tuna, swordfish, and some species of sharks show some warm-blooded adaptations—they can heat their bodies significantly above ambient water temperature. Streamlining and swimming performance varies from fish such as tuna, salmon, and jacks that can cover 10–20 body-lengths per second to species such as eels and rays that swim no more than 0.5 body-lengths per second. Many groups of freshwater fish extract oxygen from the air as well as from the water using a variety of different structures. Lungfish have paired lungs similar to those of tetrapods, gouramis have a structure called the labyrinth organ that performs a similar function, while many catfish, such as \"Corydoras\" extract oxygen via the intestine or stomach. Body shape and the arrangement of the fins is highly variable, covering such seemingly un-fishlike forms as seahorses, pufferfish, anglerfish, and gulpers. Similarly, the surface of the skin may be naked (as in moray eels), or covered with scales of a variety of different types usually defined as placoid (typical of sharks and rays), cosmoid (fossil lungfish and coelacanths), ganoid (various fossil fish but also living gars and bichirs), cycloid, and ctenoid (these last two are found on most bony fish). There are even fish that live mostly on land or lay their eggs on land near water. Mudskippers feed and interact with one another on mudflats and go underwater to hide in their burrows. A single, undescribed species of \"Phreatobius\", has been called a true \"land fish\" as this worm-like catfish strictly lives among waterlogged leaf litter. Many species live in underground lakes, underground rivers or aquifers and are popularly known as cavefish.\n\nFish range in size from the huge whale shark to the tiny stout infantfish.\n\nFish species diversity is roughly divided equally between marine (oceanic) and freshwater ecosystems. Coral reefs in the Indo-Pacific constitute the center of diversity for marine fishes, whereas continental freshwater fishes are most diverse in large river basins of tropical rainforests, especially the Amazon, Congo, and Mekong basins. More than 5,600 fish species inhabit Neotropical freshwaters alone, such that Neotropical fishes represent about 10% of all vertebrate species on the Earth. Exceptionally rich sites in the Amazon basin, such as Cantão State Park, can contain more freshwater fish species than occur in all of Europe.\n\nMost fish exchange gases using gills on either side of the pharynx. Gills consist of threadlike structures called filaments. Each filament contains a capillary network that provides a large surface area for exchanging oxygen and carbon dioxide. Fish exchange gases by pulling oxygen-rich water through their mouths and pumping it over their gills. In some fish, capillary blood flows in the opposite direction to the water, causing countercurrent exchange. The gills push the oxygen-poor water out through openings in the sides of the pharynx. Some fish, like sharks and lampreys, possess multiple gill openings. However, bony fish have a single gill opening on each side. This opening is hidden beneath a protective bony cover called an operculum.\n\nJuvenile bichirs have external gills, a very primitive feature that they share with larval amphibians.\n\nFish from multiple groups can live out of the water for extended periods. Amphibious fish such as the mudskipper can live and move about on land for up to several days, or live in stagnant or otherwise oxygen depleted water. Many such fish can breathe air via a variety of mechanisms. The skin of anguillid eels may absorb oxygen directly. The buccal cavity of the electric eel may breathe air. Catfish of the families Loricariidae, Callichthyidae, and Scoloplacidae absorb air through their digestive tracts. Lungfish, with the exception of the Australian lungfish, and bichirs have paired lungs similar to those of tetrapods and must surface to gulp fresh air through the mouth and pass spent air out through the gills. Gar and bowfin have a vascularized swim bladder that functions in the same way. Loaches, trahiras, and many catfish breathe by passing air through the gut. Mudskippers breathe by absorbing oxygen across the skin (similar to frogs). A number of fish have evolved so-called accessory breathing organs that extract oxygen from the air. Labyrinth fish (such as gouramis and bettas) have a labyrinth organ above the gills that performs this function. A few other fish have structures resembling labyrinth organs in form and function, most notably snakeheads, pikeheads, and the Clariidae catfish family.\n\nBreathing air is primarily of use to fish that inhabit shallow, seasonally variable waters where the water's oxygen concentration may seasonally decline. Fish dependent solely on dissolved oxygen, such as perch and cichlids, quickly suffocate, while air-breathers survive for much longer, in some cases in water that is little more than wet mud. At the most extreme, some air-breathing fish are able to survive in damp burrows for weeks without water, entering a state of aestivation (summertime hibernation) until water returns.\n\nAir breathing fish can be divided into obligate air breathers and facultative air breathers. Obligate air breathers, such as the African lungfish, \"must\" breathe air periodically or they suffocate. Facultative air breathers, such as the catfish \"Hypostomus plecostomus\", only breathe air if they need to and will otherwise rely on their gills for oxygen. Most air breathing fish are facultative air breathers that avoid the energetic cost of rising to the surface and the fitness cost of exposure to surface predators.\n\nFish have a closed-loop circulatory system. The heart pumps the blood in a single loop throughout the body. In most fish, the heart consists of four parts, including two chambers and an entrance and exit. The first part is the sinus venosus, a thin-walled sac that collects blood from the fish's veins before allowing it to flow to the second part, the atrium, which is a large muscular chamber. The atrium serves as a one-way antechamber, sends blood to the third part, ventricle. The ventricle is another thick-walled, muscular chamber and it pumps the blood, first to the fourth part, bulbus arteriosus, a large tube, and then out of the heart. The bulbus arteriosus connects to the aorta, through which blood flows to the gills for oxygenation.\n\nJaws allow fish to eat a wide variety of food, including plants and other organisms. Fish ingest food through the mouth and break it down in the esophagus. In the stomach, food is further digested and, in many fish, processed in finger-shaped pouches called pyloric caeca, which secrete digestive enzymes and absorb nutrients. Organs such as the liver and pancreas add enzymes and various chemicals as the food moves through the digestive tract. The intestine completes the process of digestion and nutrient absorption.\n\nAs with many aquatic animals, most fish release their nitrogenous wastes as ammonia. Some of the wastes diffuse through the gills. Blood wastes are filtered by the kidneys.\n\nSaltwater fish tend to lose water because of osmosis. Their kidneys return water to the body. The reverse happens in freshwater fish: they tend to gain water osmotically. Their kidneys produce dilute urine for excretion. Some fish have specially adapted kidneys that vary in function, allowing them to move from freshwater to saltwater.\n\nThe scales of fish originate from the mesoderm (skin); they may be similar in structure to teeth.\n\nFish typically have quite small brains relative to body size compared with other vertebrates, typically one-fifteenth the brain mass of a similarly sized bird or mammal. However, some fish have relatively large brains, most notably mormyrids and sharks, which have brains about as massive relative to body weight as birds and marsupials.\n\nFish brains are divided into several regions. At the front are the olfactory lobes, a pair of structures that receive and process signals from the nostrils via the two olfactory nerves. The olfactory lobes are very large in fish that hunt primarily by smell, such as hagfish, sharks, and catfish. Behind the olfactory lobes is the two-lobed telencephalon, the structural equivalent to the cerebrum in higher vertebrates. In fish the telencephalon is concerned mostly with olfaction. Together these structures form the forebrain.\n\nConnecting the forebrain to the midbrain is the diencephalon (in the diagram, this structure is below the optic lobes and consequently not visible). The diencephalon performs functions associated with hormones and homeostasis. The pineal body lies just above the diencephalon. This structure detects light, maintains circadian rhythms, and controls color changes.\n\nThe midbrain (or mesencephalon) contains the two optic lobes. These are very large in species that hunt by sight, such as rainbow trout and cichlids.\n\nThe hindbrain (or metencephalon) is particularly involved in swimming and balance. The cerebellum is a single-lobed structure that is typically the biggest part of the brain. Hagfish and lampreys have relatively small cerebellae, while the mormyrid cerebellum is massive and apparently involved in their electrical sense.\n\nThe brain stem (or myelencephalon) is the brain's posterior. As well as controlling some muscles and body organs, in bony fish at least, the brain stem governs respiration and osmoregulation.\n\nMost fish possess highly developed sense organs. Nearly all daylight fish have color vision that is at least as good as a human's (see vision in fishes). Many fish also have chemoreceptors that are responsible for extraordinary senses of taste and smell. Although they have ears, many fish may not hear very well. Most fish have sensitive receptors that form the lateral line system, which detects gentle currents and vibrations, and senses the motion of nearby fish and prey. Some fish, such as catfish and sharks, have the Ampullae of Lorenzini, organs that detect weak electric currents on the order of millivolt. Other fish, like the South American electric fishes Gymnotiformes, can produce weak electric currents, which they use in navigation and social communication.\n\nFish orient themselves using landmarks and may use mental maps based on multiple landmarks or symbols. Fish behavior in mazes reveals that they possess spatial memory and visual discrimination.\n\nVision is an important sensory system for most species of fish. Fish eyes are similar to those of terrestrial vertebrates like birds and mammals, but have a more spherical lens. Their retinas generally have both rods and cones (for scotopic and photopic vision), and most species have colour vision. Some fish can see ultraviolet and some can see polarized light. Amongst jawless fish, the lamprey has well-developed eyes, while the hagfish has only primitive eyespots. Fish vision shows adaptation to their visual environment, for example deep sea fishes have eyes suited to the dark environment.\n\nHearing is an important sensory system for most species of fish. Fish sense sound using their lateral lines and their ears.\n\nExperiments done by William Tavolga provide evidence that fish have pain and fear responses. For instance, in Tavolga's experiments, toadfish grunted when electrically shocked and over time they came to grunt at the mere sight of an electrode.\n\nIn 2003, Scottish scientists at the University of Edinburgh and the Roslin Institute concluded that rainbow trout exhibit behaviors often associated with pain in other animals. Bee venom and acetic acid injected into the lips resulted in fish rocking their bodies and rubbing their lips along the sides and floors of their tanks, which the researchers concluded were attempts to relieve pain, similar to what mammals would do. Neurons fired in a pattern resembling human neuronal patterns.\n\nProfessor James D. Rose of the University of Wyoming claimed the study was flawed since it did not provide proof that fish possess \"conscious awareness, particularly a kind of awareness that is meaningfully like ours\". Rose argues that since fish brains are so different from human brains, fish are probably not conscious in the manner humans are, so that reactions similar to human reactions to pain instead have other causes. Rose had published a study a year earlier arguing that fish cannot feel pain because their brains lack a neocortex. However, animal behaviorist Temple Grandin argues that fish could still have consciousness without a neocortex because \"different species can use different brain structures and systems to handle the same functions.\"\n\nAnimal welfare advocates raise concerns about the possible suffering of fish caused by angling. Some countries, such as Germany have banned specific types of fishing, and the British RSPCA now formally prosecutes individuals who are cruel to fish.\n\nMost fish move by alternately contracting paired sets of muscles on either side of the backbone. These contractions form S-shaped curves that move down the body. As each curve reaches the back fin, backward force is applied to the water, and in conjunction with the fins, moves the fish forward. The fish's fins function like an airplane's flaps. Fins also increase the tail's surface area, increasing speed. The streamlined body of the fish decreases the amount of friction from the water. Since body tissue is denser than water, fish must compensate for the difference or they will sink. Many bony fish have an internal organ called a swim bladder that adjusts their buoyancy through manipulation of gases.\n\nAlthough most fish are exclusively ectothermic, there are exceptions. The only known bony fishes (infraclass Teleostei) that exhibit endothermy are in the suborder Scombroidei – which includes the billfishes, tunas, and the butterfly kingfish, a basal species of mackerel – and also the opah. The opah, a lampriform, was demonstrated in 2015 to utilize \"whole-body endothermy\", generating heat with its swimming muscles to warm its body while countercurrent exchange (as in respiration) minimizes heat loss. It is able to actively hunt prey such as squid and swim for long distances due to the ability to warm its entire body, including its heart, which is a trait typically found in only mammals and birds (in the form of homeothermy). In the cartilaginous fishes (class Chondrichthyes), sharks of the families Lamnidae (porbeagle, mackerel, salmon, and great white sharks) and Alopiidae (thresher sharks) exhibit endothermy. The degree of endothermy varies from the billfishes, which warm only their eyes and brain, to the bluefin tuna and the porbeagle shark, which maintain body temperatures in excess of above ambient water temperatures.\n\nEndothermy, though metabolically costly, is thought to provide advantages such as increased muscle strength, higher rates of central nervous system processing, and higher rates of digestion.\n\nFish reproductive organs include testicles and ovaries. In most species, gonads are paired organs of similar size, which can be partially or totally fused. There may also be a range of secondary organs that increase reproductive fitness.\n\nIn terms of spermatogonia distribution, the structure of teleosts testes has two types: in the most common, spermatogonia occur all along the seminiferous tubules, while in atherinomorph fish they are confined to the distal portion of these structures. Fish can present cystic or semi-cystic spermatogenesis in relation to the release phase of germ cells in cysts to the seminiferous tubules lumen.\n\nFish ovaries may be of three types: gymnovarian, secondary gymnovarian or cystovarian. In the first type, the oocytes are released directly into the coelomic cavity and then enter the ostium, then through the oviduct and are eliminated. Secondary gymnovarian ovaries shed ova into the coelom from which they go directly into the oviduct. In the third type, the oocytes are conveyed to the exterior through the oviduct. Gymnovaries are the primitive condition found in lungfish, sturgeon, and bowfin. Cystovaries characterize most teleosts, where the ovary lumen has continuity with the oviduct. Secondary gymnovaries are found in salmonids and a few other teleosts.\n\nOogonia development in teleosts fish varies according to the group, and the determination of oogenesis dynamics allows the understanding of maturation and fertilization processes. Changes in the nucleus, ooplasm, and the surrounding layers characterize the oocyte maturation process.\n\nPostovulatory follicles are structures formed after oocyte release; they do not have endocrine function, present a wide irregular lumen, and are rapidly reabsorbed in a process involving the apoptosis of follicular cells. A degenerative process called follicular atresia reabsorbs vitellogenic oocytes not spawned. This process can also occur, but less frequently, in oocytes in other development stages.\n\nSome fish, like the California sheephead, are hermaphrodites, having both testes and ovaries either at different phases in their life cycle or, as in hamlets, have them simultaneously.\n\nOver 97% of all known fish are oviparous, that is, the eggs develop outside the mother's body. Examples of oviparous fish include salmon, goldfish, cichlids, tuna, and eels. In the majority of these species, fertilisation takes place outside the mother's body, with the male and female fish shedding their gametes into the surrounding water. However, a few oviparous fish practice internal fertilization, with the male using some sort of intromittent organ to deliver sperm into the genital opening of the female, most notably the oviparous sharks, such as the horn shark, and oviparous rays, such as skates. In these cases, the male is equipped with a pair of modified pelvic fins known as claspers.\n\nMarine fish can produce high numbers of eggs which are often released into the open water column. The eggs have an average diameter of .\n\nThe newly hatched young of oviparous fish are called larvae. They are usually poorly formed, carry a large yolk sac (for nourishment), and are very different in appearance from juvenile and adult specimens. The larval period in oviparous fish is relatively short (usually only several weeks), and larvae rapidly grow and change appearance and structure (a process termed metamorphosis) to become juveniles. During this transition larvae must switch from their yolk sac to feeding on zooplankton prey, a process which depends on typically inadequate zooplankton density, starving many larvae.\n\nIn ovoviviparous fish the eggs develop inside the mother's body after internal fertilization but receive little or no nourishment directly from the mother, depending instead on the yolk. Each embryo develops in its own egg. Familiar examples of ovoviviparous fish include guppies, angel sharks, and coelacanths.\n\nSome species of fish are viviparous. In such species the mother retains the eggs and nourishes the embryos. Typically, viviparous fish have a structure analogous to the placenta seen in mammals connecting the mother's blood supply with that of the embryo. Examples of viviparous fish include the surf-perches, splitfins, and lemon shark. Some viviparous fish exhibit oophagy, in which the developing embryos eat other eggs produced by the mother. This has been observed primarily among sharks, such as the shortfin mako and porbeagle, but is known for a few bony fish as well, such as the halfbeak \"Nomorhamphus ebrardtii\". Intrauterine cannibalism is an even more unusual mode of vivipary, in which the largest embryos eat weaker and smaller siblings. This behavior is also most commonly found among sharks, such as the grey nurse shark, but has also been reported for \"Nomorhamphus ebrardtii\".\n\nAquarists commonly refer to ovoviviparous and viviparous fish as livebearers.\n\nAcoustic communication in fish involves the transmission of acoustic signals from one individual of a species to another. The production of sounds as a means of communication among fish is most often used in the context of feeding, aggression or courtship behaviour.\nThe sounds emitted can vary depending on the species and stimulus involved. Fish can produce either stridulatory sounds by moving components of the skeletal system, or can produce non-stridulatory sounds by manipulating specialized organs such as the swimbladder.\n\nThere are some species of fish that can produce sounds by rubbing or grinding their bones together. These noises produced by bone-on-bone interactions are known as 'stridulatory sounds'.\n\nAn example of this is seen in \"Haemulon flavolineatum\", a species commonly referred to as the 'French grunt fish', as it produces a grunting noise by grinding its teeth together.\nThis behaviour is most pronounced when the \"H. flavolineatum\" is in distress situations. The grunts produced by this species of fishes generate a frequency of approximately 700 Hz, and last approximately 47 milliseconds. The \"H. flavolineatum\" does not emit sounds with frequencies greater than 1000 Hz, and does not detect sounds that have frequencies greater than 1050 Hz.\n\nIn a study conducted by Oliveira et al. (2014), the longsnout seahorse, \"Hippocampus reidi\", was recorded producing two different categories of sounds; ‘clicks’ and ‘growls’. The sounds emitted by the \"H. reidi\" are accomplished by rubbing their coronet bone across the grooved section of their neurocranium.\n‘Clicking’ sounds were found to be primarily produced during courtship and feeding, and the frequencies of clicks were within the range of 50 Hz-800 Hz. The frequencies were noted to be on the higher end of the range during spawning periods, when the female and male fishes were less than fifteen centimeters apart. Growl sounds were produced when the \"H. reidi\" encountered stressful situations, such as handling by researchers. The ‘growl’ sounds consist of a series of sound pulses and are emitted simultaneously with body vibrations.\n\nSome fish species create noise by engaging specialized muscles that contract and cause swimbladder vibrations.\n\nOyster toadfish produce loud grunting sounds by contracting muscles located along the sides of their swim bladder, known as sonic muscles \nFemale and male toadfishes emit short-duration grunts, often as a fright response. In addition to short-duration grunts, male toadfishes produce “boat whistle calls”. These calls are longer in duration, lower in frequency, and are primarily used to attract mates.\nThe sounds emitted by the \"O. tao\" have frequency range of 140 Hz to 260 Hz. The frequencies of the calls depend on the rate at which the sonic muscles contract.\n\nThe red drum, \"Sciaenops ocellatus\", produces drumming sounds by vibrating its swimbladder. Vibrations are caused by the rapid contraction of sonic muscles that surround the dorsal aspect of the swimbladder. These vibrations result in repeated sounds with frequencies that range from 100 to >200 Hz. The \"S. Ocellatus\" can produce different calls depending on the stimuli involved. The sounds created in courtship situations are different from those made during distressing events such as predatorial attacks. Unlike the males of the \"S. Ocellatus\" species, the females of this species don't produce sounds and lack sound-producing (sonic) muscles.\n\nLike other animals, fish suffer from diseases and parasites. To prevent disease they have a variety of defenses. \"Non-specific\" defenses include the skin and scales, as well as the mucus layer secreted by the epidermis that traps and inhibits the growth of microorganisms. If pathogens breach these defenses, fish can develop an inflammatory response that increases blood flow to the infected region and delivers white blood cells that attempt to destroy pathogens. Specific defenses respond to particular pathogens recognised by the fish's body, i.e., an immune response. In recent years, vaccines have become widely used in aquaculture and also with ornamental fish, for example furunculosis vaccines in farmed salmon and koi herpes virus in koi.\n\nSome species use cleaner fish to remove external parasites. The best known of these are the Bluestreak cleaner wrasses of the genus \"Labroides\" found on coral reefs in the Indian and Pacific oceans. These small fish maintain so-called \"cleaning stations\" where other fish congregate and perform specific movements to attract the attention of the cleaners. Cleaning behaviors have been observed in a number of fish groups, including an interesting case between two cichlids of the same genus, \"Etroplus maculatus\", the cleaner, and the much larger \"Etroplus suratensis\".\n\nImmune organs vary by type of fish.\nIn the jawless fish (lampreys and hagfish), true lymphoid organs are absent. These fish rely on regions of lymphoid tissue within other organs to produce immune cells. For example, erythrocytes, macrophages and plasma cells are produced in the anterior kidney (or pronephros) and some areas of the gut (where granulocytes mature.) They resemble primitive bone marrow in hagfish.\nCartilaginous fish (sharks and rays) have a more advanced immune system. They have three specialized organs that are unique to Chondrichthyes; the epigonal organs (lymphoid tissue similar to mammalian bone) that surround the gonads, the Leydig's organ within the walls of their esophagus, and a spiral valve in their intestine. These organs house typical immune cells (granulocytes, lymphocytes and plasma cells). They also possess an identifiable thymus and a well-developed spleen (their most important immune organ) where various lymphocytes, plasma cells and macrophages develop and are stored.\nChondrostean fish (sturgeons, paddlefish, and bichirs) possess a major site for the production of granulocytes within a mass that is associated with the meninges (membranes surrounding the central nervous system.) Their heart is frequently covered with tissue that contains lymphocytes, reticular cells and a small number of macrophages. The chondrostean kidney is an important hemopoietic organ; where erythrocytes, granulocytes, lymphocytes and macrophages develop.\n\nLike chondrostean fish, the major immune tissues of bony fish (or teleostei) include the kidney (especially the anterior kidney), which houses many different immune cells. In addition, teleost fish possess a thymus, spleen and scattered immune areas within mucosal tissues (e.g. in the skin, gills, gut and gonads). Much like the mammalian immune system, teleost erythrocytes, neutrophils and granulocytes are believed to reside in the spleen whereas lymphocytes are the major cell type found in the thymus. In 2006, a lymphatic system similar to that in mammals was described in one species of teleost fish, the zebrafish. Although not confirmed as yet, this system presumably will be where naive (unstimulated) T cells accumulate while waiting to encounter an antigen.\n\nB and T lymphocytes bearing immunoglobulins and T cell receptors, respectively, are found in all jawed fishes. Indeed, the adaptive immune system as a whole evolved in an ancestor of all jawed vertebrate.\n\nThe 2006 IUCN Red List names 1,173 fish species that are threatened with extinction. Included are species such as Atlantic cod, Devil's Hole pupfish, coelacanths, and great white sharks. Because fish live underwater they are more difficult to study than terrestrial animals and plants, and information about fish populations is often lacking. However, freshwater fish seem particularly threatened because they often live in relatively small water bodies. For example, the Devil's Hole pupfish occupies only a single pool.\n\nOverfishing is a major threat to edible fish such as cod and tuna. Overfishing eventually causes population (known as stock) collapse because the survivors cannot produce enough young to replace those removed. Such commercial extinction does not mean that the species is extinct, merely that it can no longer sustain a fishery.\n\nOne well-studied example of fishery collapse is the Pacific sardine \"Sadinops sagax caerulues\" fishery off the California coast. From a 1937 peak of the catch steadily declined to only in 1968, after which the fishery was no longer economically viable.\n\nThe main tension between fisheries science and the fishing industry is that the two groups have different views on the resiliency of fisheries to intensive fishing. In places such as Scotland, Newfoundland, and Alaska the fishing industry is a major employer, so governments are predisposed to support it. On the other hand, scientists and conservationists push for stringent protection, warning that many stocks could be wiped out within fifty years.\n\nA key stress on both freshwater and marine ecosystems is habitat degradation including water pollution, the building of dams, removal of water for use by humans, and the introduction of exotic species. An example of a fish that has become endangered because of habitat change is the pallid sturgeon, a North American freshwater fish that lives in rivers damaged by human activity.\n\nIntroduction of non-native species has occurred in many habitats. One of the best studied examples is the introduction of Nile perch into Lake Victoria in the 1960s. Nile perch gradually exterminated the lake's 500 endemic cichlid species. Some of them survive now in captive breeding programmes, but others are probably extinct. Carp, snakeheads, tilapia, European perch, brown trout, rainbow trout, and sea lampreys are other examples of fish that have caused problems by being introduced into alien environments.\n\nThroughout history, humans have utilized fish as a food source. Historically and today, most fish protein has come by means of catching wild fish. However, aquaculture, or fish farming, which has been practiced since about 3,500 BCE. in China, is becoming increasingly important in many nations. Overall, about one-sixth of the world's protein is estimated to be provided by fish. That proportion is considerably elevated in some developing nations and regions heavily dependent on the sea. In a similar manner, fish have been tied to trade.\n\nCatching fish for the purpose of food or sport is known as fishing, while the organized effort by humans to catch fish is called a fishery. Fisheries are a huge global business and provide income for millions of people. The annual yield from all fisheries worldwide is about 154 million tons, with popular species including herring, cod, anchovy, tuna, flounder, and salmon. However, the term fishery is broadly applied, and includes more organisms than just fish, such as mollusks and crustaceans, which are often called \"fish\" when used as food.\n\nFish have been recognized as a source of beauty for almost as long as used for food, appearing in cave art, being raised as ornamental fish in ponds, and displayed in aquariums in homes, offices, or public settings.\n\n\"Recreational fishing\" is fishing for pleasure or competition; it can be contrasted with commercial fishing, which is fishing for profit. The most common form of recreational fishing is done with a rod, reel, line, hooks and any one of a wide range of baits. Angling is a method of fishing, specifically the practice of catching fish by means of an \"angle\" (hook). Anglers must select the right hook, cast accurately, and retrieve at the right speed while considering water and weather conditions, species, fish response, time of the day, and other factors.\n\nFish themes have symbolic significance in many religions. In ancient Mesopotamia, fish offerings were made to the gods from the very earliest times. Fish were also a major symbol of Enki, the god of water. Fish frequently appear as filling motifs in cylinder seals from the Old Babylonian ( 1830 BC – 1531 BC) and Neo-Assyrian (911 BC – 609 BC) periods. Starting during the Kassite Period ( 1600 BC – 1155 BC) and lasting until the early Persian Period (550 BC – 330 BC), healers and exorcists dressed in ritual garb resembling the bodies of fish. During the Seleucid Period (312 BC – 63 BC), the legendary Babylonian culture hero Oannes, described by Berossus, was said to have dressed in the skin of a fish. Fish were sacred to the Syrian goddess Atargatis and, during her festivals, only her priests were permitted to eat them.\n\nIn the Book of Jonah, a work of Jewish literature probably written in the fourth century BC, the central figure, a prophet named Jonah, is swallowed by a giant fish after being thrown overboard by the crew of the ship he is travelling on. The fish later vomits Jonah out on shore after three days. This book was later included as part of the Hebrew Bible, or Christian Old Testament, and a version of the story it contains is summarized in Surah 37:139-148 of the Quran. Early Christians used the \"ichthys\", a symbol of a fish, to represent Jesus, because the Greek word for fish, ΙΧΘΥΣ Ichthys, could be used as an acronym for \"Ίησοῦς Χριστός, Θεοῦ Υἱός, Σωτήρ\" (Iesous Christos, Theou Huios, Soter), meaning \"Jesus Christ, Son of God, Saviour\". The gospels also refer to \"fishers of men\" and feeding the multitude. In the dhamma of Buddhism, the fish symbolize happiness as they have complete freedom of movement in the water. Often drawn in the form of carp which are regarded in the Orient as sacred on account of their elegant beauty, size and life-span.\n\nAmong the deities said to take the form of a fish are Ika-Roa of the Polynesians, Dagon of various ancient Semitic peoples, the shark-gods of Hawaii and Matsya of the Hindus. The astrological symbol Pisces is based on a constellation of the same name, but there is also a second fish constellation in the night sky, Piscis Austrinus.\n\nFish feature prominently in art and literature, in movies such as \"Finding Nemo\" and books such as \"The Old Man and the Sea\". Large fish, particularly sharks, have frequently been the subject of horror movies and thrillers, most notably the novel \"Jaws\", which spawned a series of films of the same name that in turn inspired similar films or parodies such as \"Shark Tale\" and \"Snakehead Terror\". Piranhas are shown in a similar light to sharks in films such as \"Piranha\"; however, contrary to popular belief, the red-bellied piranha is actually a generally timid scavenger species that is unlikely to harm humans. Legends of half-human, half-fish mermaids have featured in folklore, including the stories of Hans Christian Andersen.\n\nThough often used interchangeably, in biology these words have different meanings. \"Fish\" is used as a singular noun, or as a plural to describe multiple individuals from a single species. \"Fishes\" is used to describe different species or species groups. Thus a pond that contained a single species might be said to contain 120 fish. But if the pond contained a total of 120 fish from three different species, it would be said to contain three fishes. The distinction is similar to that between people and peoples.\n\n\nA random assemblage of fish merely using some localised resource such as food or nesting sites is known simply as an \"aggregation\". When fish come together in an interactive, social grouping, then they may be forming either a \"shoal\" or a \"school\" depending on the degree of organisation. A \"shoal\" is a loosely organised group where each fish swims and forages independently but is attracted to other members of the group and adjusts its behaviour, such as swimming speed, so that it remains close to the other members of the group. \"Schools\" of fish are much more tightly organised, synchronising their swimming so that all fish move at the same speed and in the same direction. Shoaling and schooling behaviour is believed to provide a variety of advantages.\n\nExamples:\n\nWhile the words \"school\" and \"shoal\" have different meanings within biology, the distinctions are often ignored by non-specialists who treat the words as synonyms. Thus speakers of British English commonly use \"shoal\" to describe any grouping of fish, and speakers of American English commonly use \"school\" just as loosely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1424088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1424088", "title": "Georges Florovsky", "text": "Georges Florovsky\n\nGeorges Vasilievich Florovsky (Russian: Гео́ргий Васи́льевич Флоро́вский; September 9 [O.S. August 28], 1893 – August 11, 1979) was an Orthodox Christian priest, theologian, historian and ecumenist. Born in Odessa, in the Russian Empire, he spent his working life in Paris (1920–1949) and New York (1949–1979). With Sergei Bulgakov, Vladimir Lossky, Justin Popović and Dumitru Stăniloae he was one of the more influential Orthodox Christian theologians of the mid-20th century. He was particularly concerned that modern Christian theology might receive inspiration from the lively intellectual debates of the patristic traditions of the undivided Church rather than from later Scholastic or Reformation categories of thought.\n\nGeorgiy Vasilievich Florovsky was born in Russian Empire on 9 September 1893 at Odessa (then in the Kherson Governorate of the Russian Empire), as the fourth child of an Orthodox Christian priest. Raised in an erudite environment, he learned English, German, French, Latin, Greek, and Hebrew while a schoolboy, and at eighteen he started to study philosophy and history. He graduated from the University of Odessa in 1916.\n\nAfter his first graduation he taught for three years at high schools in Odessa, and then made his full graduation including the licentia docendi at all universities in the Russian empire.\n\nIn 1919 Florovsky began to teach at the University of Odessa; but in 1920 his family was forced to leave Russia. Florovsky realized at that time that there would be no return for him, because Marxism did not accept the history and philosophy he taught. He was part of the emigration of Russian intelligentsia, which also included Nikolai Berdyaev, Sergei Bulgakov, Nicholas Lossky and his son Vladimir Lossky, Alexander Schmemann, and John Meyendorff (the last two of whom would follow him in the USA as Dean of Saint Vladimir's Orthodox Theological Seminary, New York).\n\nIn the 1920s Florovsky had a personal and vocational friendship with the existentialist philosopher Nikolai Berdyaev, but the two became distanced later, through Berdyaev's not understanding Florovsky's ordination to the presbyterate (1932), and because of the critical attitude to Berdyaev's philosophy of religion expressed in Florovsky's \"Ways of Russian Theology\" (1937).\n\nIn 1924 Florovsky received his M.A. in Prague. In 1925 he became professor of patristics at the St. Serge Institute of Orthodox Theology in Paris. In this subject he found his vocation. The lively debates of the thinkers of the early Church became for him a benchmark for Christian theology and exegesis, as well as a base for his critique of the ecumenical movement, and despite his not having earned an academic degree in theology (he was later awarded several honorary degrees) he would spend the rest of his life teaching at theological institutions. In 1932 Florovsky was ordained priest of the Orthodox Church. During the 1930s he undertook extensive research in European libraries and published in Russian valuable patristic studies, such as his book on 'Eastern fathers of the fourth century' (1931) and 'The Byzantine fathers fifth to eighth centuries' (1933). These were followed by his magnum opus, \"Ways of Russian Theology\" (1937). In this work he questioned the Western-European Christian influences of scholasticism, pietism, and idealism on Orthodox, and especially Russian, Christian theology, and called for its reformulation in the light of patristic writings. The work was received with enthusiasm or condemnation—there was no neutral attitude to it among Russian émigrés. One of his most prominent critics was Nikolai Berdyaev. Florovsky remained professor of patristics at the Institute until 1939, and from 1939 to 1948 taught there as professor of dogmatics.\n\nIn 1949 Florovsky moved to the United States of America, to take a position as Dean of Saint Vladimir's Orthodox Theological Seminary in New York City. There his development of the curriculum led to the Board of Regents of the University of the State of New York granting the Seminary an Absolute Charter in 1953.\n\nIn 1955 Florovsky was asked by his synod overseers to \"lay down the deanship.\" He became a professor of divinity at Harvard University, and ended his academic years as a professor at Princeton University.\n\nHe died on 11 August 1979.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24724297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24724297", "title": "HaMashkif", "text": "HaMashkif\n\nHaMashkif (, lit. \"The Observer\") was a Hebrew language daily newspaper in Mandatory Palestine. Published between 1938 and 1948, it was owned by Hatzohar, the Revisionist party.\n\nThe newspaper was established in 1938 in Tel Aviv, succeeding the Revisionist journals \"Hazit HaAm\" and \"HaYarden\". From 1940 until the paper's closure in 1948, it was edited by Izik Ramba. It closed in 1948 following Israeli independence and the dissolution of Hatzohar, and was replaced by \"Herut\", the journal of the new Revisionist Herut party.\n\nContributors included Avraham Shekhterman, who edited its political section and later served as a member of the Knesset for Gahal and Likud.\n\n"}
{"id": "4662374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4662374", "title": "Hinduism in South Africa", "text": "Hinduism in South Africa\n\nHinduism is practised in various provinces of South Africa, but primarily in KwaZulu-Natal. Approximately 1.1 of the South African population professed to be Hindu, according to the 2011 census. This is the largest concentration of Hindus in absolute terms in Africa after Mauritius.\n\nAccording to the 1996 census, Hindus constituted 1.4% of South Africa's population.It decreased to 1.22% in 2001.According to the religious data from 2010, it decreased to 1.1%.It further decreased to 1% according to the 2013 General Household Survey.Again decreased to 0.9% in the 2016 General Household Survey.\nThe majority of Hindus in South Africa are descendants of indentured laborers brought in by the British colonial government, from 1860 to 1919, to work in plantations and the mining operations owned by European settlers. Many came from Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and some from other states of India. Because of their Indian descent, Hindu settlers in South Africa suffered discrimination, abuse and persecution during the colonial and Apartheid eras.\n\nThe first Hindu temples were in operation in the 1870s. Some South African local governments banned temple building and property ownership by Hindus in 1910s. Modern South Africa has many Hindu temples, and its Hindu community observes major festivals of Hinduism such as Deepavali.\n\nThere is an ongoing controversy about the first arrival of Hindus in modern South Africa. One school of scholars state that Indians first arrived in modern South Africa during colonial era as indentured servants for the British Empire. The second school states Indians arrived between 500-900 AD about the same time as Islamic traders arrived. The third school states that Hindus very likely arrived by 1st millennium BC, or possible before. The third school's uses indirect linguistic, literary and gold mining process technology evidence to support its theory, while there is ample additional archaeological and historical evidence for the first two schools.\n\nA number of ancient Indian texts describe shipping and trade. Kautiliya's Arthashastra dedicates a chapter to it, and mentions a government official called \"navadhyaksha\", or minister of shipping whose job was to capture and prosecute pirates, manage sea ports and collect custom duties. Wilfred Schoff's work provides evidence of a chain of active trading ports along east and west Indian coasts by 1st century BC. While there is extensive evidence for the presence of Hindu traders and merchants in Mozambique and Swahili coast (Tanzania, Kenya), archaeological evidence has not been found for any shipping or trading in ancient times, including those by Hindus from India, along the coast of modern South Africa. Bruno Werz states that this is likely because the coastal region of Mozambique and Swahili coasts are calmer and offer many natural ports that fall is natural trade winds between India and Africa, in contrast to the more turbulent coast and seas around South Africa. Hromnik states that the likely path was arrival in Mozambique, followed by a land route inland into gold mining areas belonging to Shona people in Zimbabwe to South Africa. Regardless of the era when Hindus first arrived in South Africa, their numbers were small and they were limited to the coastal or urban regions before the colonial era.\n\nLarge numbers of Hindus (as well as people of other religions) began arriving into South Africa in the 19th century colonial era, mostly as indentured labor and some on their own as \"free\" immigrants. After slavery was abolished throughout the British Empire by 1833, British mining companies and European plantation owners throughout the empire were short of cheap or free skilled labour for labor-intensive sugarcane plantations and mining work. The available local labour became difficult to retain for low salary, harsh work, and thus unreliable. The British Empire invented and enforced an indentured labor system which essentially retained all elements of slavery.\n\nThe new system, also called the 'coolie system', was extensively used to bring Hindus to South Africa and other parts of British empire. The system enticed extremely poor people in India to sign a contract wherein they would be promised paid travel and a livelihood in exchange for a binding promise to work for a fixed period of time (four to seven years was common). Any indentured laborer who left before the contract ended was considered a criminal and subject to a prison term.\n\nWhen the indentured labor law was designed, it provided the indentured laborer some rights at the end of the contract; the laborer became free, with the legal right to some land and the right to stay in the new land, or demand the company or plantation owner for pre-paid travel back. However, in late 1880s South Africa, new laws were passed that required that the newly freed indentured laborer pay a hefty tax, or sign a new indentured labor contract and escape the tax. About 25% of Hindus returned to India, once their first contract was over. But for most indentured Hindu laborers, they had lost all contact with their country of origin, chose to stay and signed a new indentured contract. It is this system that brought large number of Hindus (and Southeast Asians) into South Africa.\n\nThe first ships carrying indentured Hindu labourers for plantations in British Empire left India in 1836. While some Hindus were recruited legally, many others were kidnapped or \"blackbirded\" into long-term indentured service in various parts of British Empire, ranging from South Africa to Fiji, Australia and the Caribbean.\n\nIn South Africa, indentured labourers were brought in to work on sugarcane plantations in Natal, in part because sugarcane farming and sugar had its origins in India, the labor did not need to be trained, and Indian Hindus were suffering from waves of famines and extreme poverty while British colonial empire was busy force converting India's fertile farms from the production of food to the production of cash crops such as cotton for British mills, tobacco for Europeans, poppy and opium for China. Today, the Kwa-Zulu Natal province of South Africa has the largest Hindu population in Africa (about 12% of Kwa-Zulu Natal province's total population).\n\nIn the early decades of the migrations, indentured Indians were treated as inhumanely as the enslaved Africans had been. They were confined to their estates and paid a pitiful salary. Any breach of contract brought automatic criminal penalties and imprisonment. Many of these were brought away from their homelands deceptively, from inland regions far from seaports where they were promised jobs but were not told the work they were being hired for, nor that the new job required them to leave their homeland and communities. They were hustled aboard waiting ships, unprepared for the long and arduous four-month sea journey. Abuse, disease and death on these ship, and in plantations of South Africa were common place. The abuse led to a temporary ban on indenture labor hiring in South Africa in early 1870s.\n\nAfter the ban was lifted with British Colonial Law 19 and 20 of 1874, British officials advertised plantation job opportunities to Hindu families in northern Ganges basin and southern Tamil Nadu, invited men to bring their families, promised salary with homes, and that they and their families can continue to practice Hinduism while they work at the plantations. However, once they arrived, there were many irregularities and the reality after arrival was very different than promises before their departure.\n\nBetween 1874 and 1911, European plantation and factory owners in Natal region of South Africa alone brought in 146,000 people from India in 364 ships. Other Hindu coolies (indentured laborers) were deployed by the colonial government in Eastern Cape, Western Cape and Free State. Over time, the colonial government recognized three classes of Hindus - the \"free\" merchant class Hindus who had arrived in South Africa at their own expense, the previously indentured but later free Hindus who typically manned shops and logistics, and the \"non-free\" indentured class of Hindus whose residence and movement was controlled because he or she was contracted property. The first two classes of Indian Hindus prospered and became wealthy, and were increasingly seen as economic threats by European merchants by late 1880s.\n\nDiscriminatory laws based on ethnic origin began to be passed in 1890s, and the roots of South African apartheid era started taking shape. It was in this environment of 1890s when Mahatma Gandhi arrived in South Africa as a lawyer offering services to Indian diaspora in South Africa. It was his experiences of colonial abuse, religious stereotyping and racial discrimination against poor Hindus in South Africa that shaped his political and non-violent movement. He, along with other Hindus in Pretoria, began a series of publications and Hindu organizations to bring Hindu community together, and then non-violently highlight and seek human rights. Not only did they demand civil rights to transform interracial relations, they also sought social reforms among Hindus living in South Africa.\n\nThe first South African Hindu temple was built in 1869. As the \"free\" Hindu community prospered, more temples were built in Durban, Pietermaritzburg, Port Elizabeth, Johannesburg and Pretoria. However, given the Hindus in South Africa came from different regions of India and spoke different languages, the temples and social life among Hindus remained diverse and fragmented. As apartheid-type discriminatory laws against colored and black people began to catch the imagination of some European settlers in South Africa, a few regional governments banned Hindus from purchasing land or building new temples in 1902. Additional and more severe restrictions were placed against Hindus in South Africa during the Apartheid era, through 1994.\n\nTamil Hindus had a well frequented First River (Umbilo Shri Ambalavanaar) temple on Umbilo river in Durban by 1875. This temple was damaged by floods in 1905, but its deities and relocatable parts were saved before the floods and relocated nearby to Second River temple, one that has remained in use for over 100 years. The early temples in South Africa were simple, but followed the traditional Hindu temple design and architectures. Temples built later were larger and more elaborate.\n\nIn South Africa, there is some blurring between language, and religion among Hindus. It is not uncommon for Tamils to call their religion \"Tamil\", or for Hindi speakers to refer to their religion likewise. In general, worship of Mother Goddess Parvati and Lord Sri Shiva are more common among Hindus of South Indian origin, with Hindus of North Indian origin worshiping Rama, or in the case of Gujaratis, worshippers of Vishnu. However, there are many practices that are fluidly shared amongst all Hindus in South Africa.\n\nDeepavali is the most important festival for South African Hindus. It is a major attraction in Durban, where public festivities are held every year along its beachfront. Tamil Hindus of South Africa also observe Kavadi, while Krishna devotees observe the Festival of Chariots.\n\nHare Krishna bhakti school of Hindus is active in many parts of South Africa, such as in Durban area where South Africa's largest Hindu community lives.\n\nAccording to a research,More than 88% of Hindus affirmed a monotheistic understanding of God in Hinduism as opposed to only about 11% admitting to polytheistic notions.According to the Hofmeyr and Oosthuizen survey, the majority of Hindus in the Durban township of Chatsworth believes that “Jesus was the only son of God.”\n\nAccording to the 2001 census, there are 551,669 Hindus in RSA. The number of Hindus by district municipality boundaries are given below:\n\nThe major problem faced by the Hindus in South Africa is religious conversion to Christianity, mainly by Pentecostals.The Indian Christian number grew from 4% in 1925 to 24.4% in 2011. The penetration of the Pentecostal movements into Hindu society is felt especially in the KwaZulu-Natal Indian townships.In 2018, an organisation called the \"South African Hindu Dharma Sabha\" officially \"declared war on such religious conversion\". Its president, Ram Maharaj, said at least 500 000 signatures were needed by the Netherlands-based foundation to start legal proceedings at the International Court of Human Rights, however Maharaj's stance was rejected by other Hindu organisations in South Africa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5148454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5148454", "title": "History of Sikhism", "text": "History of Sikhism\n\nThe history of Sikhism started with Guru Nanak Dev Ji, the first Guru in the fifteenth century in the Punjab region of the Indian subcontinent. The religious practices were formalised by Guru Gobind Singh Ji on 13 April 1699. The latter baptised five persons from different social backgrounds to form Khalsa (ਖ਼ਾਲਸਾ). The first five, Pure Ones, then baptised Gobind Singh into the Khalsa fold. This gives the order of Khalsa, a history of around 300 years.\n\nThe history of Sikhism is closely associated with the history of Punjab and the socio-political situation in 16th-century Northwestern Indian subcontinent (modern Pakistan and India). During the Mughal rule of India (1556–1707), Sikhism was in conflict with the Mughal empire laws, because they were affecting political successions of Mughals while cherishing saints from Hinduism and Islam. Prominent Sikh Gurus were killed by Islamic rulers for refusing to convert to Islam, and for opposing the persecution of Sikhs and Hindus. Of total 10 Sikh gurus, last 6 gurus were persecuted, 2 gurus themselves were tortured and executed (Guru Arjan and Guru Tegh Bahadur), and close kins of several gurus brutally killed (such as 6 and 9 years old sons of Guru Gobind Singh), along with numerous other main revered figures of Sikhism were tortured and killed (such as Banda Bahadur, Bhai Mati Das, Bhai Sati Das and Bhai Dayala), by Islamic rulers for refusing to convert to Islam, and for opposing the persecution of Sikhs and Hindus. Subsequently, Sikhism militarised to oppose Mughal hegemony. The emergence of the Sikh Confederacy under the misls and Sikh Empire under reign of the Maharajah Ranjit Singh was characterised by religious tolerance and pluralism with Christians, Muslims and Hindus in positions of power. The establishment of the Sikh Empire is commonly considered the zenith of Sikhism at political level, during this time the Sikh Empire came to include Kashmir, Ladakh, and Peshawar. Hari Singh Nalwa, the Commander-in-chief of the Sikh army along the North West Frontier, took the boundary of the Sikh Empire to the very mouth of the Khyber Pass. The Empire's secular administration integrated innovative military, economic and governmental reforms.\n\nThe months leading up to the partition of India in 1947, saw heavy conflict in the Punjab between Sikh and Muslims, which saw the effective religious migration of Punjabi Sikhs and Hindus from West Punjab which mirrored a similar religious migration of Punjabi Muslims in East Punjab.\n\nGuru Nanak (1469–1539), founder of Sikhism, was born to Mehta Kalu and Mata Tripta, in a Hindu family in the village of Talwandi, now called Nankana Sahib, near Lahore. His father, named Mehta Kalu, was a Patwari, an accountant of land revenue in the government. Nanak's mother was Mata Tripta, and he had one older sister, Bibi Nanki.\n\nFrom an early age, Guru Nanak Dev Ji seemed to have acquired a questioning and enquiring mind and refused as a child to wear the ritualistic \"sacred\" thread called a Janeu and instead said that he would wear the true name of God in his heart as protection, as the thread which could be broken, be soiled, burnt or lost could not offer any security at all. From early childhood, Bibi Nanki saw in her brother the Light of God but she did not reveal this secret to anyone. She is known as the first disciple of Guru Nanak.\n\nEven as a boy, his desire to explore the mysteries of life eventually led him to leave home. It was during this period that Nanak was said to have met Kabir and Ravidass (1440–1518), saints revered by many. Nanak married Sulakhni, daughter of Moolchand Chona, a trader from Batala, and they had two sons, Sri Chand and Lakshmi Das.\n\nHis brother-in-law, Jai Ram, the husband of his sister Nanki, obtained a job for him in Sultanpur as the manager of the government granary. One morning, when he was twenty-eight, Guru Nanak Dev went as usual down to the river to bathe and meditate. It was said that he was gone for three days. When he reappeared, it is said he was \"filled with the spirit of God\". His first words after his re-emergence were: \"There is no Hindu, there is no Muslim\". With this secular principle he began his missionary work. He made four distinct major journeys, in the four different directions, which are called Udasis, spanning many thousands of kilometres, preaching the message of God.\n\nGuru Nanak spent the final years of his life in Kartarpur where Langar free blessed food was available. The food would be partaken of by Hindus, rich, poor, both high and so-called low castes. Guru Nanak worked in the fields and earned his livelihood. After appointing Bhai Lehna as the new Sikh Guru, on 22 September 1539, aged 70, Guru Nanak passed away.\n\nIn 1538, Guru Nanak chose Lehna, his disciple, as a successor to the Guruship rather than one of his sons. Bhai Lehna was named Guru Angad and became the successor of Guru Nanak. Bhai Lehna was born in the village of Harike in Ferozepur district in Punjab, on 31 March 1504. He was the son of a small trader named Pheru. His mother's name was Mata Ramo (also known as Mata Sabhirai, Mansa Devi, Daya Kaur). Baba Narayan Das Trehan was his grand father, whose ancestral house was at Matte-di-Sarai near Mukatsar.\n\nUnder the influence of his mother, Bhai Lehna began to worship Durga (A Hindu Goddess). He used to lead a group of Hindu worshippers to Jawalamukhi Temple every year. He married Mata Khivi in January 1520 and had two sons, (Dasu and Datu), and two daughters (Amro and Anokhi). The whole Pheru family had to leave their ancestral village because of the ransacking by the Mughal and Baloch military who had come with Emperor Babur. After this the family settled at the village of Khadur Sahib by the River Beas, near Tarn Taran Sahib, a small town about 25 km. from Amritsar city.\n\nOne day, Bhai Lehna heard the recitation of a hymn of Guru Nanak from Bhai Jodha (a Sikh of Guru Nanak Sahib) who was in Khadur Sahib. He was thrilled and decided to proceed to Kartarpur to have an audience (darshan) with Guru Nanak. So while on the annual pilgrimage to Jwalamukhi Temple, Bhai Lehna left his journey to visit Kartarpur and see Baba Nanak. His very first meeting with Guru Nanak completely transformed him. He renounced the worship of the Hindu Goddess, dedicated himself to the service of Guru Nanak and so became his disciple, (his Sikh), and began to live in Kartarpur.\n\nHis devotion and service (Sewa) to Guru Nanak and his holy mission was so great that he was instated as the Second Nanak on 7 September 1539 by Guru Nanak. Earlier Guru Nanak tested him in various ways and found an embodiment of obedience and service in him. He spent six or seven years in the service of Guru Nanak at Kartarpur.\n\nAfter the death of Guru Nanak on 22 September 1539, Guru Angad left Kartarpur for the village of Khadur Sahib (near Goindwal Sahib). He carried forward the principles of Guru Nanak both in letter and spirit. Yogis and Saints of different sects visited him and held detailed discussions about Sikhism with him.\n\nGuru Angad introduced a new alphabet known as Gurmukhi Script, modifying the old Punjabi script's characters. Soon, this script became very popular and started to be used by the people in general. He took great interest in the education of children by opening many schools for their instruction and thus increased the number of literate people. For the youth he started the tradition of Mall Akhara, where physical as well as spiritual exercises were held. He collected the facts about Guru Nanak's life from Bhai Bala and wrote the first biography of Guru Nanak. He also wrote 63 Saloks (stanzas), which are included in the Guru Granth Sahib. He popularised and expanded the institution of \"Guru ka Langar\" that had been started by Guru Nanak.\n\nGuru Angad travelled widely and visited all important religious places and centres established by Guru Nanak for the preaching of Sikhism. He also established hundreds of new Centres of Sikhism (Sikh religious Institutions) and thus strengthened the base of Sikhism. The period of his Guruship was the most crucial one. The Sikh community had moved from having a founder to a succession of Gurus and the infrastructure of Sikh society was strengthened and crystallised – from being an infant, Sikhism had moved to being a young child and ready to face the dangers that were around. During this phase, Sikhism established its own separate spiritual path.\n\nGuru Angad, following the example set by Guru Nanak, nominated Sri Amar Das as his successor (the Third Nanak) before his death. He presented all the holy scripts, including those he received from Guru Nanak, to Guru Amar Das. He died on 29 March 1552 at the age of forty-eight. It is said that he started to build a new town, at Goindwal near Khadur Sahib and Guru Amar Das Sahib was appointed to supervise its construction. It is also said that Humayun, when defeated by Sher Shah Suri, came to obtain the blessings of Guru Angad in regaining the throne of Delhi.\n\nGuru Amar Das became the third Sikh guru in 1552 at the age of 73. Goindwal became an important centre for Sikhism during the Guruship of Guru Amar Das. He continued to preach the principle of equality for women, the prohibition of Sati and the practise of Langar. In 1567, Emperor Akbar sat with the ordinary and poor people of Punjab to have Langar. Guru Amar Das also trained 140 apostles, of which 52 were women, to manage the rapid expansion of the religion. Before he died in 1574 aged 95, he appointed his son-in-law Jetha as the fourth Sikh Guru.\n\nIt is recorded that before becoming a Sikh, Bhai Amar Das, as he was known at the time, was a very religious Vaishanavite Hindu who spent most of his life performing all of the ritual pilgrimages and fasts of a devout Hindu. One day, Bhai Amar Das heard some hymns of Guru Nanak being sung by Bibi Amro Ji, the daughter of Guru Angad, the second Sikh Guru. Bibi Amro was married to Bhai Sahib's brother, Bhai Manak Chand's son who was called Bhai Jasso. Bhai Sahib was so impressed and moved by these Shabads that he immediately decided to go to see Guru Angad at Khadur Sahib. It is recorded that this event took place when Bhai Sahib was 61 years old.\n\nIn 1535, upon meeting Guru Angad, Bhai Sahib was so touched by the Guru's message that he became a devout Sikh. Soon he became involved in Sewa (Service) to the Guru and the Community. Under the impact of Guru Angad and the teachings of the Gurus, Bhai Amar Das became a devout Sikh. He adopted Guru as his spiritual guide (Guru). Bhai Sahib began to live at Khadur Sahib, where he used to rise early in the morning and bring water from the Beas River for the Guru's bath; he would wash the Guru's clothes and fetch wood from the jungle for 'Guru ka Langar'. He was so dedicated to Sewa and the Guru and had completely extinguished pride and was totally lost in this commitment that he was considered an old man who had no interest in life; he was dubbed Amru, and generally forsaken.\n\nHowever, as a result of Bhai Sahib's commitment to Sikhi principles, dedicated service and devotion to the Sikh cause, Guru Angad Sahib appointed Guru Amar Das Sahib as third Nanak in March 1552 at the age of 73. He established his headquarters at the newly built town of Goindwal, which Guru Angad had established.\n\nSoon large numbers of Sikhs started flocking to Goindwal to see the new Guru. Here, Guru Amar Das propagated the Sikh faith in a vigorous, systematic and planned manner. He divided the Sikh Sangat area into 22 preaching centres or Manjis, each under the charge of a devout Sikh. He himself visited and sent Sikh missionaries to different parts of India to spread Sikhism.\n\nGuru Amar Das was impressed with Bhai Gurdas' thorough knowledge of Hindi and Sanskrit and the Hindu scriptures. Following the tradition of sending out Masands across the country, Guru Amar Das deputed Bhai Gurdas to Agra to spread the gospel of Sikhism. Before leaving, Guru Amar Das prescribed the following routine for Sikhs:\n\nGuru Ji strengthened the tradition of 'Guru ka Langar' and made it compulsory for the visitor to the Guru to eat first, saying that 'Pehle Pangat Phir Sangat' (first visit the Langar then go to the Guru). Once the emperor Akbar came to see Guru Sahib and he had to eat the coarse rice in the Langar before he could have an interview with Guru Sahib. He was so much impressed with this system that he expressed his desire to grant some royal property for 'Guru ka Langar', but Guru Sahib declined it with respect.\n\nHe introduced new birth, marriage and death ceremonies. Thus he raised the status of women and protected the rights of female infants who were killed without question as they were deemed to have no status. These teachings met with stiff resistance from the Orthodox Hindus. He fixed three Gurpurbs for Sikh celebrations: Diwali, Vaisakhi and Maghi.\n\nGuru Amar Das not only preached the equality of people irrespective of their caste but he also fostered the idea of women's equality. He preached strongly against the practice of Sati (a Hindu wife burning on her husband's funeral pyre). Guru Amar Das also disapproved of a young widow remaining unmarried for the rest of her life.\n\nGuru Amar Das constructed \"Baoli\" at Goindwal Sahib having eighty-four steps and made it a Sikh pilgrimage centre for the first time in the history of Sikhism. He reproduced more copies of the hymns of Guru Nanak and Guru Angad. He also composed 869 (according to some chronicles these were 709) verses (stanzas) including Anand Sahib, and then later on Guru Arjan (fifth Guru) made all the Shabads part of Guru Granth Sahib.\n\nWhen the time came for the Guru's younger daughter Bibi Bhani to marry, he selected a pious and diligent young follower of his called Jetha from Lahore. Jetha had come to visit the Guru with a party of pilgrims from Lahore and had become so enchanted by the Guru's teachings that he had decided to settle in Goindwal. Here he earned a living selling wheat and would regularly attend the services of Guru Amar Das in his spare time.\n\nGuru Amar Das did not consider anyone of his sons fit for Guruship and chose instead his son-in law (Guru) Ram Das to succeed him. Guru Amar Das Sahib at the age of 95 died on 1 September 1574 at Goindwal in District Amritsar, after giving responsibility of Guruship to the Fourth Nanak, Guru Ram Das.\n\nGuru Ram Das (Punjabi: ਗੁਰੂ ਰਾਮ ਦਾਸ) (Born in Lahore, Punjab, Pakistan on 24 September 1534 – 1 September 1581, Amritsar, Punjab, India) was the fourth of the Ten Gurus of Sikhism, and he became Guru on 30 August 1574, following in the footsteps of Guru Amar Das. He was born in Lahore to a Sodhi family of the Khatri clan. His father was Hari Das and mother Anup Devi, and his name was Jetha, meaning 'first born'. His wife was Bibi Bhani, the younger daughter of Guru Amar Das, the third guru of the Sikhs. They had three sons: Prithi Chand, Mahadev and Arjan Dev.\n\nAs a Guru one of his main contributions to Sikhism was organising the structure of Sikh society. Additionally, he was the author of Laava, the hymns of the Marriage Rites, the designer of the Harmandir Sahib, and the planner and creator of the township of Ramdaspur (later Amritsar).\n\nA hymn by Guru Ram Das from Ang 305 of the Guru Granth Sahib:\n\"One who calls himself a Sikh of the True Guru shall get up early morning and meditate on the Lord's Name. Make effort regularly to cleanse, bathe and dip in the ambrosial pool. Upon Guru's instructions, chant Har, Har singing which, all misdeeds, sins and pains shall go away.\"\nGuru Ram Das nominated Guru Arjan, his youngest son, as the next Guru of the Sikhs.\n\nIn 1581, Guru Arjan — the youngest son of the fourth guru — became the Fifth Guru of the Sikhs. In addition to being responsible for building the Golden Temple, he prepared the Sikh Sacred text and his personal addition of some 2,000 plus hymns in the Gurū Granth Sāhib.\n\nIn 1604 he installed the Ādi Granth for the first time as the Holy Book of the Sikhs. In 1606, for refusing to make changes to the Gurū Granth Sāhib, he gave martyrdom and was executed by the Mughal rulers of the time.\n\nGuru Har Gobind became the sixth guru of the Sikhs. He carried two swords — one for Spiritual reasons and one for temporal (worldly) reasons. From this point onward, the Sikhs became a military force and always had a trained fighting force to defend their independence.\n\nGuru Hargobind fixed two Nishan Sahib's at Akal Bunga in front of the Akal Takht. One flag is towards the Harmandir Sahib and the other shorter flag is towards Akal Takht. The first represents the reins of the spiritual authority while the later represents temporal power stating temporal power should be under the reins of the spiritual authority.\n\nGuru Har Rai (Punjabi: ਗੁਰੂ ਹਰਿ ਰਾਇ) (26 February 1630 – 6 October 1661) was the seventh of the ten Gurus of Sikhism, becoming Guru on 8 March 1644, following in the footsteps of his grandfather, Guru Har Gobind, who was the sixth guru. Before he died, he nominated Guru Har Krishan, his youngest son, as the next Guru of the Sikhs.\n\nAs a very young child he was disturbed by the suffering of a flower damaged by his robe in passing. Though such feelings are common with children, Guru Har Rai would throughout his life be noted for his compassion for life and living things. His grandfather, who was famed as an avid hunter, is said to have saved the Moghul Emperor Jahangir's life during a tiger's attack. Guru Har Rai continued the hunting tath at age 31, Guru tradition of his grandfather, but he would allow no animals to be killed on his grand Shikars. The Guru instead captured the animal and added it to his zoo.\nHe made several tours to the Malwa and Doaba regions of the Punjab.\n\nHis son, Ram Rai, seeking to assuage concerns of Aurangzeb over one line in Guru Nanak's verse (Mitti Mussalmam ki pede pai kumhar) suggested that the word Mussalmam was a mistake on the copyist's part, therefore distorting Bani. The Guru refused to meet with him again. The Guru is believed to have said, \"Ram Rai, you have disobeyed my order and sinned. I will never see you again on account of your infidelity.\" It was also reported to the Guru that Ram Rai had also worked miracles in the Mughal's court against his father's direct instructions. Sikhs are constrained by their Gurus to not believe in magic and myth or miracles. Just before his death at age 31, Guru Har Rai passed the Gaddi of Nanak on to his younger son, the five-year-old – Guru Har Krishan.\n\nGuru Har Rai was the son of Baba Gurdita and Mata Nihal Kaur (also known as Mata Ananti Ji). Baba Gurdita was the son of the sixth Guru, Guru Hargobind. Guru Har Rai married Mata Kishan Kaur (sometimes also referred to as Sulakhni), daughter of Sri Daya Ram of Anoopshahr (Bulandshahr) in Uttar Pradesh on Har Sudi 3, Samvat 1697. Guru Har Rai had two sons: Baba Ram Rai and Sri Har Krishan.\n\nAlthough, Guru Har Rai was a man of peace, he never disbanded the armed Sikh Warriors (Saint Soldiers), who earlier were maintained by his grandfather, Guru Hargobind. He always boosted the military spirit of the Sikhs, but he never himself indulged in any direct political and armed controversy with the contemporary Mughal Empire. Once, Dara Shikoh (the eldest son of emperor Shah Jahan), came to Guru Har Rai asking for help in the war of succession with his brother, the murderous Aurangzeb. The Guru had promised his grandfather to use the Sikh Cavalry only in defense. Nevertheless, he helped him to escape safely from the bloody hands of Aurangzeb's armed forces by having his Sikh warriors hide all the ferry boats at the river crossing used by Dara Shikoh in his escape.\n\nGuru Har Krishan born in Kirat Pur, Ropar (Punjabi: ਗੁਰੂ ਹਰਿ ਕ੍ਰਿਸ਼ਨ) (7 July 1656 – 30 March 1664) was the eighth of the Ten Gurus of Sikhism, becoming the Guru on 7 October 1661, following in the footsteps of his father, Guru Har Rai. Before Har Krishan died of complications of Smallpox, he nominated his granduncle, Guru Teg Bahadur, as the next Guru of the Sikhs. The following is a summary of the main highlights of his short life:\n\nWhen Har Krishan stayed in Delhi there was a smallpox epidemic and many people were dying. According to Sikh history at Har Krishan's blessing, the lake at Bangla Sahib provided cure for thousands. Gurdwara Bangla Sahib was constructed in the Guru's memory. This is where he stayed during his visit to Delhi. Gurdwara Bala Sahib was built in south Delhi besides the bank of the river Yamuna, where Har Krishan was cremated at the age of about 7 years and 8 months. Guru Har Krishan was the youngest Guru at only 7 years of age. He did not make any contributions to Gurbani.\n\nGuru Tegh Bahadur was the ninth of the Sikh Gurus. The eight Sikh Guru, Guru Har Krishan, nominated him, his grand uncle as the next Guru, before he died. Guru Tegh Bahadur was actually the son of the sixth Sikh Guru, Guru Hargobind. \nHe sacrificed himself to protect Hindus. Aurungzeb was forcibly converting Hindus to Muslims. Hindus from Kashmir came to Guru Teg Bahadur for protection and requested for assistance. Guru asked them to tell Aurungzeb that if he converted Guru Teg Bahadur to Islam then they all become Muslim. He was asked by Aurungzeb, the Mughal emperor, under coercion by Naqshbandi Islamists, to convert to Islam or to sacrifice himself. The exact place where he died is in front of the Red Fort in Delhi (Lal Qila) and the gurdwara is called Sisganj. This marked a turning point for Sikhism. His successor, Guru Gobind Singh further militarised his followers.\n\nGuru Gobind Singh was the tenth guru of Sikhs. He was born in 1666 at Patna (Capital of Bihar, India). In 1675 Pundits from Kashmir in India came to Anandpur Sahib pleading to Guru Teg Bhadur (Father of Guru Gobind Singh ) about Aurangzeb forcing them to convert to Islam. Guru Teg Bahadur told them that martyrdom of a great man was needed. His son, Guru Gobind Singh said \"Who could be greater than you\", to his father. Guru Teg Bahadur told pundits to tell Aurangzeb's men that if Guru Teg Bahadur will become Muslim, they all will. Guru Teg Bahadur was then killed in Delhi, but before that he assigned Guru Gobind Singh as 10th Guru at age of 9. After becoming Guru he commanded Sikhs to be armed. He fought many battles with Aurangzeb and some other Kings of that time, but always won.\n\nIn 1699 he created the Khalsa \"panth\", by giving \"amrit\" to sikhs. In 1704 he fought the great battle with collective forces of Aurangzeb, Wazir Khan (Chief of Sarhind), and other kings. He left Anandpur and went to Chamkaur with only 40 sikhs. There he fought the Battle of Chamkaur with 40 sikhs, vastly outnumbered by the Mughal soldiers. His two elder sons (at ages 17, 15) were killed there. Wazir Khan killed other two (ages 9, 6). Guru Ji sent Aurangzeb the Zafarnamah (\"Notification of Victory\"). Then he went to Nanded (Maharashtra, India). From there he made Baba Gurbakhash Singh, also aliased as Baba Banda Singh Bahadur, as his general and sent him to Punjab.\n\nOn the evening of the day when Baba Gurbakhash Singh left for Punjab, Guru Gobind Singh was visited by two Muslim soldiers. One of them was commissioned by Wazir Khan, Subedar of Sirhind, to assassinate Guru Gobind Singh. One of the assailants, Bashal Beg, kept a vigil outside the Guru's tent while Jamshed Khan, a hired assassin, stabbed the Guru twice. Khan was killed in one stroke by the Guru, while those outside, alerted by the tumult, killed Beg. Although the wound was sewn up the following day, the Guru died in Nanded, Maharashtra, India in 1708.\n\nShortly before passing away Guru Gobind Singh ordered that the Guru Granth Sahib (the Sikh Holy Scripture), would be the ultimate spiritual authority for the Sikhs and temporal authority would be vested in the Khalsa Panth – the Sikh Nation. The first Sikh Holy Scripture was compiled and edited by the Fifth Guru, Guru Arjan in AD 1604, although some of the earlier gurus are also known to have documented their revelations. This is one of the few scriptures in the world that has been compiled by the founders of a faith during their own lifetime. The Guru Granth Sahib is particularly unique among sacred texts in that it is written in Gurmukhi script but contains many languages including Punjabi, Hindustani, Sanskrit, Bhojpuri, Assamese and Persian. Sikhs consider the Guru Granth Sahib the last, perpetual living guru.\n\nBanda Singh Bahadur was chosen to lead the Sikhs by Guru Gobind Singh. He was successful in setting up a Sikh Empire that spread from Uttar Pradesh to Punjab. He fought the Islamist Mughal state tyranny and gave the common people of Punjab courage, equality, and rights. On his way to Punjab, Banda Singh punished robbers and other criminal elements making him popular with the people. Banda Singh inspired the minds of the non-Muslim people, who came to look upon the Sikhs as defenders of their faith and country. Banda Singh possessed no army but Guru Gobind Singh in a Hukamnama called to the people of Punjab to take arms under the leadership of Banda Singh overthrow and destroy the oppressive Mughal rulers, oppressed Muslims and oppressed Hindus also joined him in the popular revolt against the tyrants.\n\nBanda Singh Bahadur camped in Khar Khoda, near Sonipat from there he took over Sonipat and Kaithal. In 1709 Banda Singh captured the Mughal city of Samana with the help of revolting oppressed Hindu and common folk, killing about 10,000 Mohammedans. Samana which was famous for minting coins, with this treasury the Sikhs became financially stable. The Sikhs soon took over Mustafabad and Sadhora (near Jagadhri). The Sikhs then captured the Cis-Sutlej areas of Punjab including Ghurham, Kapori, Banoor, Malerkotla, and Nahan. The Sikhs captured Sirhind in 1710 and killed the Governor of Sirhind, Wazir Khan who was responsible for the death of the two youngest sons of Guru Gobind Singh at Sirhind. Becoming the ruler of Sirhind Banda Singh gave order to give ownership of the land to the farmers and let them live in dignity and self-respect. Petty officials were also satisfied of with the change. Dindar Khan, an official of the nearby village, took Amrit and became Dinder Singh and the newspaper writer of Sirhind, Mir Nasir-ud-din, became Mir Nasir Singh\n\nBanda Singh developed the village of Mukhlisgarh, and made it his capital He then renamed the city it to Lohgarh (fortress of steel) where he issued his own mint. The coin described Lohgarh: \"Struck in the City of Peace, illustrating the beauty of civic life, and the ornament of the blessed throne.\" He briefly established a state in Punjab for half a year. Banda Singh sent Sikhs to the Uttar Pradesh and Sikhs took over Saharanpur, Jalalabad, Saharanpur, and other areas near by bringing relief to the repressed population. In the regions of Jalandhar and Amritsar, the Sikhs started fighting for the rights of the people. They used their newly established power to remove corrupt officials and replace them with honest ones.\n\nBanda Singh is known to have abolished or halted the Zamindari system in time he was active and gave the farmers proprietorship of their own land. It seems that all classes of government officers were addicted to extortion and corruption and the whole system of regulatory and order was subverted. Local tradition recalls that the people from the neighborhood of Sadaura came to Banda Singh complaining of the iniquities practices by their land lords. Banda Singh ordered Baj Singh to open fire on them. The people were astonished at the strange reply to their representation, and asked him what he meant. He told them that they deserved no better treatment when being thousands in number they still allowed themselves to be cowed down by a handful of Zamindars.\n\nThe rule of the Sikhs over the entire Punjab east of Lahore obstructed the communication between Delhi and Lahore, the capital of Punjab, and this worried Mughal Emperor Bahadur Shah He gave up his plan to subdue rebels in Rajasthan and marched towards Punjab. The entire Imperial force was organised to defeat and kill Banda Singh. All the generals were directed to join the Emperor’s army. To ensure that there were no Sikh agents in the army camps, an order was issued on 29 August 1710 to all Hindus to shave off their beards.\n\nBanda Singh was in Uttar Pradesh when the Moghal army under the orders of Munim Khan marched to Sirhind and before the return of Banda Singh, they had already taken Sirhind and the areas around it. The Sikhs therefore moved to Lohgarh for their final battle. The Sikhs defeated the army but reinforcements were called and they laid siege on the fort with 60,000 troops. Gulab Singh dressed himself in the garments of Banda Singh and seated himself in his place. Banda Singh left the fort at night and went to a secret place in the hills and Chamba forests. The failure of the army to kill or catch Banda Singh shocked Emperor, Bahadur Shah and On 10 December 1710 he ordered that wherever a Sikh was found, he should be murdered. The Emperor became mentally disturbed and died on 18 February 1712.\nBanda Singh Bahadur wrote Hukamnamas to the Sikhs telling them to get themselves reorganised and join him at once. In 1711 the Sikhs gathered near Kiratpur Sahib and defeated Raja Bhim Chand, who was responsible for organising all the Hill Rajas against Guru Gobind Singh and instigating battles with him. After Bhim Chand’s dead the other Hill Rajas accepted their subordinate status and paid revenues to Banda Singh.\nWhile Bahadur Shah's 4 sons were killing themselves for the throne of the Mughal Emperor Banda Singh Bahadur recaptured Sadhura and Lohgarh. Farrukh Siyar, the next Moghal Emperor, appointed Abdus Samad Khan as the governor of Lahore and Zakaria Khan, Abdus Samad Khan's son, the Faujdar of Jammu. In 1713 the Sikhs left Lohgarh and Sadhura and went to the remote hills of Jammu and where they built Dera Baba Banda Singh. During this time Sikhs were being hunted down especially by pathans in the Gurdaspur region.\nBanda Singh came out and captured Kalanaur and Batala which rebuked Farrukh Siyar to issue Mughal and Hindu officials and chiefs to proceed with their troops to Lahore to reinforce his army.\n\nIn March 1715, Banda Singh Bahadur was in the village of Gurdas Nangal, Gurdaspur, Punjab, when the army under the rule of Samad Khan, the Mogual king of Delhi laid siege to the Sikh forces. The Sikhs fought and defended the small fort for eight months. On 7 December 1715 Banda Singh starving soldiers were captured.\n\nOn 7 December 1715 Banda Singh Bahadur was captured from the Gurdas Nangal fort and put in an iron cage and the remaining Sikhs were captured, chained. The Sikhs were brought to Delhi in a procession with the 780 Sikh prisoners, 2,000 Sikh heads hung on spears, and 700 cartloads of heads of slaughtered Sikhs used to terrorise the population. They were put in the Delhi fort and pressured to give up their faith and become Muslims.\nOn their firm refusal all of them were ordered to be executed. Every day, 100 Sikhs were brought out of the fort and murdered in public daily, which went on approximately seven days. The Mussalmans could hardly contain themselves of joy while the Sikhs showed no sign of dejection or humiliation, instead they sang their sacred hymns; none feared dead or gave up their faith. After 3 months of confinement On 9 June 1716, Banda Singh’s eyes were gouged, his limbs were severed, his skin removed, and then he was killed.\n\nIn 1716 Farrukh Siyar, the Mughal Emperor, issued all Sikhs to be converted to Islam or die, an attempt to destroy the power of the Sikhs and to exterminate the community as a whole. A reward was offered for the head of every Sikh. For a time it appeared as if the boast of Farrukh Siyar to wipe out the name of Sikhs from the land was going to be fulfilled. Hundreds of Sikhs were brought in from their villages and executed, and thousands who had joined merely for the sake of booty cut off their hair and went back to the Hindu fold again. Besides these there were some Sikhs who had not yet received the baptism of Guru Gobind Singh, nor did they feel encouraged to do so, as the adoption of the outward symbols meant courting death.\n\nAfter a few years Adbus Samad Khan, the Governor of Lahore, Punjab and other Mughal officers began to pursue Sikhs less and thus the Sikhs came back to the villages and started going to the Gurdwaras again, which were managed by Udasis when the Sikhs were in hiding. The Sikhs celebrated Bandhi Chorh Diwas and Vaisakhi at Harmandir Sahib.\nThe Khalsa had been split into two major factions Bandia Khalsa and Tat Khalsa and tensions were spewing between the two.\n\nUnder the authority of Mata Sundari Bhai Mani Singh become the Jathedar of the Harminder Sahib and a leader of the Sikhs and the Bandia Khalsa and Tat Khalsa joined by Bhai Mani Singh into the Tat Khalsa and after the event from that day the Bandeis assumed a quieter role and practically disappeared from the pages of history. A police post was established at Amritsar to keep a check on the Sikhs.\n\nAbdus Samad Khan, was transferred to Multan in 1726, and his more energetic Son, Zakaria Khan, also known as Khan Bahadur, was appointed to take his place as the governor of Lahore. In 1726, Tarra Singh of Wan, a renowned Sikh leader, and his 26 men was killed after Governor Zakaria Khan, sent 2200 horses, 40 zamburaks, 5 elephants and 4 cannons, under the command of his deputy, Momim Khan. The murder of Tarra Singh spread across the Sikhs in Punjab and the Sikhs. Finding no Sikhs around, the government falsely announced in each village with the beat of a drum, that all Sikhs had been eliminated but the common people knew the truth that this was not the case. The Sikhs did not face the army directly, because of their small numbers, but adopted \"dhai phut\" guerrilla warfare (hit and run) tactics.\n\nUnder the leadership of Nawab Kapoor Singh and Jathedar Darbara Singh, in attempt to weaken their enemy looted many of the Mughals caravans and supplies and for some years no money from revenue could reach the government treasury. When the forces of government tried to punish the outlaws, they were unable to contact them, as the Sikhs did not live in houses or forts, but ran away to their rendezvous in forests or other places difficult to access.\n\nNawab Kapur Singh was born in 1697 in a village near Sheikhupura, Punjab, Pakistan.He was a volunteer at Darbar Sahib Amritsar. His was cleaning shoes of sangat that come to pay their repect to Darbar Sahib,work in the kitchen to feed the Sangat .He was given a jagir in 1733 when the Governor of Punjab offered the Sikhs the Nawabship (ownership of an estate) and a valuable royal robe, the Khalsa accepted it all in the name of Kapur Singh. Henceforth, he became known as Nawab Kapur Singh. In 1748 he would organise the early Sikh Misls into the Dal Khalsa (Budda Dal and Tarna Dal).\n\nNawab Kapur Singh’s father was Chaudhri Daleep Singh as a boy he memorised Gurbani Nitnem and was taught the arts of war. Kapur Singh was attracted to the Khalsa Panth after the execution of Bhai Tara Singh, of the village of Van, in 1726.\n\nThe Khalsa held a meeting to make plans to respond to the state repression against the people of the region and they decided to take procession of government money and weapons in order to weaken the administration, and to equip themselves to face the everyday attacks. Kapur Singh was assigned to plan and execute these projects.\n\nInformation was obtained that money was being transported from Multan to the Lahore treasure; the Khalsa looted the money and took over the arms and horses of the guards. They then took over one lakh rupees from the Kasoor estate treasury going from Kasur to Lahore. Next they captured a caravan from Afghanistan region which resulted in capturing numerous arms and horses.\n\nThe Khalsa seized a number of vilayati (Superior Central Asian) horses from Murtaza Khan was going to Delhi in the jungle of Kahna Kachha. Some additional war supplies were being taken from Afghanistan to Delhi and Kapur Singh organised an attack to capture them. In another attack the Khalsa recovered gold and silver which was intended to being carried from Peshawar to Delhi by Jaffar Khan, a royal official.\n\nThe Mughal rulers and the commanders alongside the Delhi government lost all hope of defeating the Sikhs through repression and decided to develop another strategy, Zakaria Khan, the Governor of Lahore, went to Delhi where it was decided to befriend the Sikhs and rule in cooperation with them and in 1733 the Dehli rulers withdrew all orders against the Khalsa. The Sikhs were now permitted to own land and to move freely without any state violence against them. To co-operate with the Khalsa Panth, and win the goodwill of the people, the government sent an offer of an estate and Nawabship through a famous Lahore Sikh, Subeg Singh. The Khalsa did not wanted to rule freely and not to be under the rule of a subordinate position. However this offer was eventually accepted and this title was bestowed on Kapur Singh after it was sanctified by the touch of Five Khalsas feet. Thus Kapur Singh became Nawab Kapur Singh. Kapur Singh guided the Sikhs in strengthening themselves and preaching Gurmat to the people. He knew that peace would be short lived. He encouraged people to freely visit their Gurdwaras and meet their relatives in the villages.\n\nThe Khalsa reorganised themselves into two divisions, the younger generation would be part of the Taruna Dal, which provided the main fighting force, while the Sikhs above the age of forty years would be a part of the Budha Dal, which provided the responsibility of the management of Gurdwaras and Gurmat preaching. The Budha Dal would be responsible to keep track of the movements of government forces, plan their defense strategies, and they provide a reserve fighting force for the Taruna Dal.\n\nThe following measures were established by Nawab Kapur Singh:\n\nThe Taruna Dal quickly increased to more than 12,000 recruits and it soon became difficult to manage the house and feeding of such a large number of people at one place.\nIt was then decided to have five divisions of the Dal, each to draw rations from the central stocks and cook its own langar. These five divisions were stationed around the five sarovars (sacred pools) around Amritsar they were Ramsar, Bibeksar, Lachmansar, Kaulsar and Santokhsar. The divisions later became known as Misls and their number increased to eleven. Each took over and ruled a different region of the Punjab. Collectively they called themselves the Sarbat Khalsa.\n\nBeing the leader of the Khalsa Nawab Kapur Singh was given an additional responsibility by Mata Sundari, the wife of Guru Gobind Singh sent Kapur Singh the young Jassa Singh Ahluwalia and told him that Ahluwalia was like a son to her and that the Nawab should raise him like an ideal Sikh. Ahluwalia under the guidance of Kapur Singh, was given a good education in Gurbani and a thorough training in managing the Sikh affairs.\nLater Jassa Singh Ahluwalia would become an important role in leading the Sikhs to self-rule.\n\nIn 1735, the rulers of Lahore attacked and repossessed the jagir (estate) given to the Sikhs only two years before however Nawab Kapur Singh in reaction decided the whole Punjab should be taken over by the Sikhs. This decision was taken against heavy odds but was endorsed by the Khalsa and all the Sikhs assured him of their full cooperation in his endeavor for self-rule. Zakariya Khan Bahadur sent roaming squads to hunt and kill the Sikhs. Orders were issued to all administrators down to the village level officials to seek Sikhs, murder them, get them arrested, or report their whereabouts to the governments. One years wages were offered to anyone who would murder a Sikh and deliver his head to the police station.\nRewards were also promised to those who helped arrest Sikhs. Persons providing food or shelter to Sikhs or helping them in any way were severely punished.\n\nThis was the period when the Sikhs were sawed into pieces, burnt alive, their heads crushed with hammers\nand young children were pierced with spears before their mother’s eyes. To keep their morale high, the Sikhs developed their own high-sounding terminologies and slogans: For example. Tree leaves boiled for food were called ‘green dish’; the parched chickpeas were called ‘almonds’; the Babul tree was a ‘rose’; a blind man was a ‘brave man’, getting on the back of a buffalo was ‘riding an elephant’.\n\nThe army pursued the Sikhs hiding near the hills and forced them to cross the rivers and seek safety in the Malwa tract. When Kapur Singh reached Patiala he met Maharaja Baba Ala Singh who then took Amrit and Kapur Singh helped him increase the boundaries of his state. In 1736 the Khalsa attacked Sirhind, where the two younger sons of Guru Gobind Singh were killed. The Khalsa took over the city, the took over the treasury and they established the Gurdwaras at the historical places and withdrew.\nWhile near Amritsar the government of Lahore sent troops to attack the Sikhs. Kapur Singh entrusted the treasury to Jassa Singh Ahluwalia, while having sufficient amount of Sikhs with him to keep the army engaged. When Jassa Singh was reached a consider distance the Khalsa safely retreated to Tarn Taran Sahib. Kapur Singh sent messages to the Tauna Dal asking them to help them in the fight. After a days of fighting Kapur Singh from the trenches dug by the Khalsa surprisingly attacked the commanding posts killing three generals alongside many Mughal officers. The Mughal army thus retreated to Lahore.\n\nZakaria Khan called his advisers to plan another strategy to deal with the Sikhs. It was suggested that the Sikhs should not be allowed to visit the Amrit Sarovar, which was believed to be the fountain of their lives and source of their strength. Strong contingents were posted around the city and all entries to Harmandir Sahib were checked. The Sikhs, however, risking their lives, continued to pay their respects to the holy place and take a dip in the Sarovar (sacred pool) in the dark of the night. When Kapur Singh went to Amritsar he had a fight with Qadi Abdul Rehman. He had declared that Sikhs the so-called lions, would not dare to come to Amritsar and face him. In the ensuing fight Abdul Rehman was killed. When his son tried to save him, he too lost his life. In 1738 Bhai Mani Singh was executed.\n\nIn 1739 Nader Shah of the Turkic Afsharid dynasty invaded and looted the treasury of the Indian subcontinent. Nader Shah killed more than 100,000 people in Delhi and carried off all of the gold and valuables. He added to his caravan hundreds of elephants and horses, along with thousands of young women and Indian artisans. When Kapur Singh came to know of this, he decided to warn Nader Shah that if not the local rulers, then the Sikhs would protect the innocent women of Muslims and Hindus from being sold as slaves. While crossing The river Chenab, the Sikhs attacked the rear end of the caravan, freed many of the women, freed the artisans, and recovered part of the treasure. The Sikhs continued to harass him and lighten him of his loot until he withdrew from the Punjab.\n\nMassa Ranghar, the Mughal official, had taken over the control of Amritsar. While smoking and drinking in the Harmandir Sahib, he watched the dances of nautch girls. The Sikhs who had moved to Bikaner, a desert region, for safety, were outraged to hear of this desecration. In 1740 Sukha Singh and Mehtab Singh, went to Amritsar disguised as revenue collectors. They tied their horses outside, walked straight into the Harmandir Sahib, cut off his head, and took it with them. It was a lesson for the ruler that no tyrant would go unpunished.\n\nAbdus Samad Khan, a senior Mughal royal commander, was sent from Delhi to subdue the Sikhs. Kapur Singh learned of this scheme and planned his own strategy accordingly. As soon as the army was sent out to hunt for the Sikhs, a Jatha of commandos disguised as messengers of Khan went to the armory. The commander there was told that Abdus Samad Khan was holding the Sikhs under siege and wanted him with all his force to go and arrest them. The few guards left behind were then overpowered by the Sikhs, and all the arms and ammunition were looted and brought to the Sikh camp.\n\nAbdus Samad Khan sent many roaming squads to search for and kill Sikhs. He was responsible for the torture and murder of Bhai Mani Singh, the head Granthi of Harimander Sahib. Samad Khan was afraid that Sikhs would kill him so he remained far behind the fighting lines. Kapur Singh had a plan to get him. During the battle Kapur Singh ordered his men to retreat drawing the fighting army with them. He then wheeled around and fell upon the rear of the army. Samad Khan and his guards were lying dead on the field within hours. The Punjab governor also took extra precautions for safety against the Sikhs. He started to live in the fort. He would not even dare to visit the mosque outside the fort for prayers.\n\nOn the request of the Budha Dal members, Kapur Singh visited Patiala. The sons of Sardar Ala Singh, the founder and Maharajah of the Patiala state, gave him a royal welcome. Kapur Singh subdued all local administrators around Delhi who were not behaving well towards their people.\n\nZakaria Khan died in 1745. His successor tightened the security around Amritsar. Kapur Singh planned to break the siege of Amritsar. Jassa Singh Ahluwalia was made the commander of the attacking Sikh forces. In 1748, the Sikhs attacked. Jassa Singh Ahluwalia, with his commandos behind him, dashed to the army commander and cut him into two with his sword. The commander's nephew was also killed.\n\nThe Sikhs built their first fort Ram Rauni at Amritsar in 1748. In December 1748, Governor Mir Mannu had to take his forces outside of Lahore to stop the advance of Ahmad Shah Abdali. The Sikhs quickly overpowered the police defending the station in Lahore and confiscated all of their weapons and released all the prisoners. Nawab Kapur Singh told the sheriff to inform the Governor that, the sheriff of God, the True Emperor, came and did what he was commanded to do. Before the policemen could report the matter to the authorities, or the army could be called in, the Khalsa were already riding their horses back to the forest.\nNawab Kapur Singh died in 1753.\n\nJassa Singh Ahluwalia was born in 1718. His father, Badar Singh, died when Ahluwalia was only four years old. His mother took him to Mata Sundari, the wife of Guru Gobind Singh when Ahluwalia was young. Mata Sundri was impressed by his melodious singing of hymns and kept the Ahluwalia near her. Later Jassa Singh Ahluwalia was adopted by Nawab Kapoor Singh, then the leader of the Sikh nation. Ahluwalia followed all Sikh qualities required for a leader Ahluwalia would sing Asa di Var in the morning and it was appreciated by all the Dal Khalsa and Ahluwalia kept busy doing seva (selfless service). He became very popular with the Sikhs. He used to tie his turban in the Mughal fashion as he grew up in Delhi. Ahluwalia learned horseback riding and swordsmanship from expert teachers.\n\nIn 1748 Jassa Singh Ahluwalia became the supreme commander of all the Misls. Jassa Singh Ahluwalia was honored with the title of Sultanul Kaum (King of the Nation). Jassa Singh Ahluwalia was the head of the Ahluwalia Misl and then after Nawab Kapoor Singh become the leader of all the Misls jointly called Dal Khalsa. He played a major role In leading the Khalsa to self-rule in Punjab. In 1761 The Dal Khalsa under the leadership of Ahluwalia, would take over Lahore, the capital of Punjab, for the first time. They were the masters of Lahore for a few months and minted their own Nanakshahi rupee coin in the name of 'Guru Nanak – Guru Gobind Singh'.\n\nIn 1746 about seven thousand Sikhs were killed and three thousand to fifteen thousand Sikhs were taken prisoners during by the order of the Mughal Empire when Zakaria Khan, The Governor of Lahore, and Lakhpat Rai, the Divan (Revenue Minister) of Zakaria Khan, sent military squads to kill the Sikhs.\n\nJaspat Rai, a jagirdar (landlord) of the Eminabad area and also the brother of Lakhpat Rai, faced the Sikhs in a battle one of the Sikhs held the tail of his elephant and got on his back from behind and with a quick move, he chopped off his head. Seeing their master killed, the troops fled. Lakhpat Rai, after this incident, committed himself to destroying the Sikhs.\n\nThrough March–May 1746, a new wave of violence was started against the Sikhs with all of the resources available to the Mughal government, village officials were ordered to co-operate in the expedition. Zakaria Khan issued the order that no one was to give any help or shelter to Sikhs and warned that severe consequences would be taken against anyone disobeying these orders. Local people were forcibly employed to search for the Sikhs to be killed by the army. Lakhpat Rai ordered Sikh places of worship to be destroyed and their holy books burnt. Information about including Jassa Singh Ahluwalia and a large body of Sikhs were camping in riverbeds in the Gurdaspur district (Kahnuwan tract). Zakaria Khan managed to have 3,000 Sikhs of these Sikhs captured and later got them beheaded in batches at Nakhas (site of the horse market outside the Delhi gate). Sikhs raised a memorial shrine known as the Shahidganj (the treasure house of martyrs) at that place latter.\n\nIn 1747, Shah Nawaz took over as Governor of Lahore. To please the Sikhs, Lakhpat Rai was put in prison by the new Governor. Lakhpat Rai received severe punishment and was eventually killed by the Sikhs.\n\nIn 1747 Salabat Khan, a newly appointed Mughal commander, placed police around Amritsar and built observation posts to spot and kill Sikhs coming to the Amrit Sarovar for a holy dip. Jassa Singh Ahluwalia and Nawab Kapoor Singh led the Sikhs to Amritsar, and Salabat Khan was killed by Ahluwalia, and his nephew was killed by the arrow of Kapur Singh.\nThe Sikhs restored Harmandir Sahib and celebrated their Diwali gathering there.\n\nIn 1748 all the Misls joined themselves under one command and on the advice of the aging Jathedar Nawab Kapoor Singh Jassa Singh Ahluwalia was made the supreme leader. They also decided to declare that the Punjab belonged to them and they would be the sovereign rulers of their state. The Sikhs also built their first fort, called Ram Rauni, at Amritsar.\n\nAdina Beg, the Faujdar (garrison commander) of Jalandhar, sent a message to the Dal Khalsa chief to cooperate with him in the civil administration, and he wanted a meeting to discuss the matter. This was seen as a trick to disarm the Sikhs and keep them under government control. Jassa Singh Ahluwalia replied that their meeting place would be the battle ground and the discussion would be carried out by their swords. Beg attacked the Ram Rauni fort at Amritsar and besieged the Sikhs there. Dewan Kaura Mal advised the Governor to lift the siege and prepare the army to protect the state from the Durrani invader, Ahmed Shah Abdali. Kaura Mal had a part of the revenue of Patti area given to the Sikhs for the improvement and management of Harmandir Sahib, Amritsar.\n\nKaura Mal had to go to Multan to quell a rebellion there. He asked the Sikhs for help and they agreed to join him. After the victory at Multan, Kaura came to pay his respects to the Darbar Sahib, and offered 11,000 rupees and built Gurdwara Bal-Leela; He also spent 3,000,000 rupees to build a Sarover (holy water) at Nankana Sahib, the birthplace of Guru Nanak Dev. In 1752, Kaura Mall was killed in a battle with Ahmed Shah Abdali and state policy towards the Sikhs quickly changed. Mir Mannu, the Governor, started hunting Sikhs again. He arrested many men and women, put them in prison and tortured them. In November 1753, when he went to kill the Sikhs hiding in the fields, they showered him with a hail of bullets and Mannu fell from the horse and the animal dragged him to death. The Sikhs immediately proceeded to Lahore, attacked the prison, and got all the prisoners released and led them to safety in the forests.\n\nIn May 1757, the Afghan Durrani general of Ahmad Shah Abdali, Jahan Khan attacked Amritsar with a huge army and the Sikhs because of their small numbers decided to withdraw to the forests. Their fort, Ram Rauni, was demolished, Harmandir Sahib was also demolished, and the army desecrated the Sarovar (Holy water) by filling it with debris and dead animals. Baba Deep Singh made history when he cut through 20,000 Durrani soldiers and reached Harmandir Sahib, Amritsar.\n\nAdina Beg did not pay revenues to the government so the Governor dismissed him and appointed a new Faujdar (garrison commander) in his place. The army was sent to arrest him and this prompted Adina Beg to request Sikh help. The Sikhs took advantage of the situation and to weaken the government, they fought against the army. One of the commanders was killed by the Sikhs and the other deserted. Later, the Sikhs attacked Jalandhar and thus became the rulers of all the tracts between Sutlej and Beas rivers, called Doaba.\nInstead of roaming in the forests now they were ruling the cities.\n\nThe Sikhs started bringing more areas under their control and realising revenue from them. In 1758, joined by the Mahrattas, they conquered Lahore and arrested many Afghan soldiers who were responsible for filling the Amrit Sarovar with debris a few months earlier. They were brought to Amritsar and made to clean the Sarovar (holy water). After the cleaning of the Sarovar, the soldiers were allowed to go home with a warning that they should not do that again.\n\nAhmed Shah Abdali came again in October 1759 to loot Delhi. The Sikhs gave him a good fight and killed more than 2,000 of his soldiers. Instead of getting involved with the Sikhs, he made a rapid advance to Delhi. The Khalsa decided to collect revenues from Lahore to prove to the people that the Sikhs were the rulers of the state. The Governor of Lahore closed the gates of the city and did not come out to fight against them. The Sikhs laid siege to the city. After a week, the Governor agreed to pay 30,000 rupees to the Sikhs.\n\nAhmed Shah Abdali returned from Delhi in March 1761 with lots of gold and more than 2,000 young girls as prisoners who were to be sold to the Afghans in Kabul. When Abdali was crossing the river Beas, the Sikhs swiftly fell upon them. They freed the women prisoners and escorted them back to their homes. The Sikhs took over Lahore in September of 1761, after Abdali returned to Kabul.\n\nThe Khalsa minted their coins in the name of Guru Nanak Dev. Sikhs, as rulers of the city, received full cooperation from the people. After becoming the Governor of Lahore, Punjab Jassa Singh Ahluwalia was given the title of Sultan-ul-Kaum (King of the Nation).\n\nIn the winter of 1762, after losing his loot from Delhi to the Sikhs, The Durrani emperor, Ahmad Shah Abdali brought a big, well equipped army to finish the Sikhs forever. Sikhs were near Ludhiana on their way to the forests and dry areas of the south and Abdali moved from Lahore very quickly and caught the Sikhs totally unprepared. They had their women, children and old people with them. As many as 30,000 Sikhs are said to have been murdered by the army. Jassa Singh Ahluwalia himself received about two dozen wounds. Fifty chariots were necessary to transport the heads of the victims to Lahore. The Sikhs call this Wadda Ghalughara (The Great Massacre).\n\nAhmad Shah Abdali, fearing Sikh retaliation, sent messages that he was willing to assign some areas to the Sikhs to be ruled by them. Jassa Singh Ahluwalia rejected his offers and told him that Sikhs own the Punjab and they do not recognise his authority at all. Abdali went to Amritsar and destroyed the Harmandir Sahib again by filling it up with gunpowder hoping to eliminate the source of \"life\" of the Sikhs. While Abdali was demolishing the Harminder Sahib a he was hit on the nose with a brick; later in 1772 Abdali died of cancer from the 'gangrenous ulcer' that consumed his nose. Within a few months the Sikhs attacked Sirhind and moved to Amritsar.\n\nIn 1764 the Sikhs shot dead Zain Khan Sirhindi Durrani Governor of Sirhind, and the regions around Sirhind were divided among the Sikh Misldars and money recovered from the treasury were used to rebuild the Harmandir Sahib. Gurdwara Fatehgarh Sahib was built in Sirhind, at the location the two younger sons of Guru Gobind Singh were killed. The Sikhs started striking Govind Shahi coins and in 1765 they took over Lahore again.\n\nIn 1767 when Ahmed Shah Abdali came again he sent messages to the Sikhs for their cooperation. He offered them the governorship of Punjab but was rejected. The Sikhs using repeated guerrilla attacks took away his caravan of 1,000 camels loaded with fruits from Kabul. The Sikhs were again in control of the areas between Sutlej and Ravi. After Abdali’s departure to Kabul, Sikhs crossed the Sutlej and brought Sirhind and other areas right up to Delhi, the entire Punjab under their control.\n\nShah Alam II, the Mughal Emperor of Delhi was staying away in Allahabad, ordered his commander Zabita Khan to fight the Sikhs. Zabita made a truce with them instead and then was dismissed from Alam’s service. Zabita Khan then became a Sikh and was given a new name, Dharam Singh.\n\nQadi Nur Mohammed, who came to Punjab with Ahmad Shah Abdali and was present during many Sikh battles writes about the Sikhs:\n\nAhmad Shah Abdali, fearing the Sikhs, did not follow his normal route through Punjab while he returned to Kabul. Jassa Singh Ahluwalia did not add more areas to his Misl. Instead, whenever any wealth or villages came into the hands of the Sikhs he distributed them among the Jathedars of all the Misls. Ahluwalia passed his last years in Amritsar. With the resources available to him, he repaired all the buildings, improved the management of the Gurdwaras, and provided better civic facilities to the residents of Amritsar. He wanted every Sikh to take Amrit before joining the Dal Khalsa.\n\nAhluwalia died in 1783 and was cremated near Amritsar. There is a city block, Katra Ahluwalia, in Amritsar named after him. This block was assigned to his Misl in honor of his having stayed there and protected the city of Amritsar.\n\nJassa Singh Ramgarhia played an active role in Jassa Singh Alhuwalia’s army. He founded the Ramgarhia Misl and played a major role in the battles of the Khalsa Panth. He suffered about two dozen wounds during the Wadda Ghalughara. Jassa Singh Ramgarhia was the son of Giani Bhagwan Singh and was born in 1723. They lived in the village of Ichogil, near Lahore. His grandfather took Amrit during the lifetime of Guru Gobind Singh, and joined him in many battles; he joined the forces of Banda Singh Bahadur. Ramgarhia was the oldest of five brothers. When Ramgarhia was young he had memorised Nitnem hymns and took Amrit.\n\nIn 1733, Zakaria Khan, the Governor of Punjab, needed help to protect himself from the Iranian invader, Nader Shah. He offered the Sikhs an estate and a royal robe. The Sikhs in the name of Kapur Singh accepted it. After the battle Zakaria Khan gave five villages to the Sikhs in reward for the bravery of Giani Bhagwan Singh, father of Ramgarhia, who died in the battle. Village Vallah was awarded to Ramgarhia, where Ramgarhia gained the administrative experience required to become a Jathedar (leader) of the Sikhs. During this period of peace with the government, the Sikhs built their fort, Ram Rauni, in Amritsar. Zakaria died in 1745 and Mir Mannu became the Governor of Lahore.\n\nMir Mannu (Mu'in ul-Mulk), the Governor of Lahore, was worried about the increasing power of the Sikhs so he broke the peace. Mir Mannu also ordered Adina Beg, the Faujdar (garrison commander) of the Jalandhar region, to begin killing the Sikhs. Adina Beg was a very smart politician and wanted the Sikhs to remain involved helping them. In order to develop good relations with the Sikhs, he sent secret messages to them who were living in different places. Jassa Singh Ramgarhia responded and agreed to cooperate with the Faujdar and was made a Commander. This position helped him develop good relations with Divan Kaura Mal at Lahore and assign important posts to the Sikhs in the Jalandhar division.\n\nThe Governor of Lahore ordered an attack on Ram Rauni to kill the Sikhs staying in that fort. Adina Beg was required to send his army as well and Jassa Singh, being the commander of the Jalandhar forces, had to join the army to kill the Sikhs in the fort. After about four months of siege, Sikhs ran short of food and supplies in the fort. He contacted the Sikhs inside the fort and joined them. Jassa Singh used the offices of Divan Kaura Mal and had the siege lifted. The fort was strengthened and named Ramgarh; Jassa Singh Ramgarhia, having been designated the Jathedar of the fort, became popular as Ramgarhia.\n\nMir Mannu intensified his violence and oppression against the Sikhs. There were only 900 Sikhs when he surrounded the Ramgarh fort again. The Sikhs fought their way out bravely through thousands of army soldiers. The army demolished the fort. The hunt for and torture of the Sikhs continued until Mannu died in 1753. Mannu's death left Punjab without any effective Governor. It was again an opportune period for the Sikhs to organise themselves and gain strength. Jassa Singh Ramgarhia rebuilt the fort and took possession of some areas around Amritsar. The Sikhs took upon themselves the task of protecting the people in the villages from the invaders. The money they obtained from the people was called Rakhi (protection charges). The new Governor, Taimur, son of Ahmed Shah Abdali, despised the Sikhs. In 1757, he again forced the Sikhs to vacate the fort and move to their hiding places. The fort was demolished, Harmandir Sahib was blown up, and Amrit Sarovar was filled with debris. The Governor decided to replace Adina Beg. Beg asked the Sikhs for help and they both got a chance to weaken their common enemy. Adina Beg won the battle and became the Governor of Punjab. Sikhs rebuilt their fort Ramgarh and repaired the Harmandir Sahib. Beg was well acquainted with the strength of the Sikhs and he feared they would oust him if he allowed them to grow stronger, so he led a strong army to demolish the fort. After fighting valiantly, the Sikhs decided to leave the fort. Adina Beg died in 1758.\n\nJassa Singh Ramgarhia occupied the area to the north of Amritsar between the Ravi and the Beas rivers. He also added the Jalandhar region and Kangra hill areas to his estate. He had his capital in Sri Hargobindpur, a town founded by the sixth Guru. The large size of Ramgarhia's territory aroused the jealousy of the other Sikh Misls.\n\nA conflict between Jai Singh Kanhaiya and Jassa Singh Ramgarhia developed and the Bhangi Misl sardars also developed differences with Jai Singh Kanhaiya. A big battle was fought between Jai Singh, Charat Singh, and Jassa Singh Ahluwalia on one side and Bhangis, Ramgarhias and their associates on the other side. The Bhangi side lost the battle.\n\nLater, Jassa Singh Ahluwalia, one day while hunting, happened to enter Ramgarhia territory where Jassa Singh Ramgarhia's brother arrested him. Ramgarhia apologised for the misbehaviour of his brother, and returned Ahluwalia with gifts.\n\nDue to mutual jealousies, fights continued among the Sikh Sardars. In 1776, the Bhangis changed sides and joined Jai Singh Kanhaiya to defeat Jassa Singh Ramgarhia. His capital at Sri Hargobindpur was taken over and he was followed from village to village, and finally forced to vacate all his territory. He had to cross the river Sutlej and go to Amar Singh, the ruler of Patiala. Maharaja Amar Singh welcomed Ramgarhia and who then occupied the areas of Hansi and Hissar which eventually Ramgarhia handed over to his son, Jodh Singh Ramgarhia.\n\nMaharaja Amar Singh and Ramgarhia took control of the villages on the west and north of Delhi, now forming parts of Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh. The Sikhs disciplined and brought to justice all the Nawabs who were harassing their non-Muslim population. Jassa Singh Ramgarhia entered Delhi in 1783. Shah Alam II, the Mughal emperor, extended the Sikhs a warm welcome. Ramgarhia left Delhi after receiving gifts from him. Because of the differences arising out of the issue of dividing the Jammu state revenues, long time friends and neighbors Maha Singh, Jathedar of Sukerchakia Misl and Jai Singh, Jathedar of the Kanheya Misl, became enemies. This resulted in a war which changed the course of Sikh history. Maha Singh requested Ramgarhia to help him. In the battle, Jai Singh lost his son, Gurbalchsh Singh, while fighting with Ramgarhias.\n\nAfter continuous raids, Sikhs under Baghel Singh defeated the mughals on 11 March 1783, captured Delhi and hoisted Sikh flag (Nishan Sahib) in Red Fort.\n\nJai Singh Kanheya’s widowed daughter-in-law, Sada Kaur, though very young, was a great statesperson. Sada Kaur saw the end of the Khalsa power through such mutual battles but she was able to convince Maha Singh to adopt the path of friendship. For this she offered the hand of her daughter, then only a child, to his son, Ranjit Singh (later the Maharaja of the Punjab), who was then just a boy. The balance of power shifted in favour of this united Misl. This made Ranjit Singh the leader of the most powerful union of the Misls.\n\nWhen the Afghan invader, Zaman Shah Durrani, came in 1788 the Sikhs, however, were still divided. Ramgarhia and Bhangi Misls were not willing to help Ranjit Singh to fight the invader, so the Afghans took over Lahore and looted it. Ranjit Singh occupied Lahore in 1799 but still the Ramgarhias and Bhangis did not accept him as the leader of all the Sikhs. They got the support of their friends and marched to Lahore to challenge Ranjit Singh. When the Bhangi leader died Jassa Singh Ramgarhia returned to his territory.\nRamgarhia was eighty years old when he died in 1803. His son, Jodh Singh Ramgarhia, developed good relations with Ranjit Singh and they never fought again.\n\n\nRanjit Singh was crowned on 12 April 1801 (to coincide with Baisakhi). Sahib Singh Bedi, a descendant of Guru Nanak Dev, conducted the coronation. Gujranwala served as his capital from 1799. In 1802 he shifted his capital to Lahore and Amritsar. Ranjit Singh rose to power in a very short period, from a leader of a single Sikh misl to finally becoming the Maharaja (Emperor) of Punjab.\n\nThe Sikh Empire (from 1801–1849) was formed on the foundations of the Punjabi Army by Maharaja Ranjit Singh. The Empire extended from Khyber Pass in the west, to Kashmir in the north, to Sindh in the south, and Tibet in the east. The main geographical footprint of the empire was the Punjab. The religious demography of the Sikh Empire was Muslim (80%), Sikh (10%), Hindu (10%).\n\nThe foundations of the Sikh Empire, during the Punjab Army, could be defined as early as 1707, starting from the death of Aurangzeb and the downfall of the Mughal Empire. After fighting off local Mughal remnants and allied Rajput leaders, Afghans, and occasionally hostile Punjabi Muslims who sided with other Muslim forces the fall of the Mughal Empire provided opportunities for the army, known as the Dal Khalsa, to lead expeditions against the Mughals and Afghans. This led to a growth of the army, which was split into different Punjabi Armies and then semi-independent misls. Each of these component armies were known as a misl, each controlling different areas and cities. However, in the period from 1762-1799 Sikh rulers of their misls appeared to be coming into their own. The formal start of the Sikh Empire began with the disbandment of the Punjab Army by the time of Coronation of Maharaja Ranjit Singh in 1801, creating the one unified political Empire. All the misldars who were affiliated with the Army were nobility with usually long and prestigious family histories in Punjab's history.\n\nThe Sikh rulers were very tolerant of other religions; and arts, painting and writings flourished in Punjab. In Lahore alone there were 18 formal schools for girls besides specialist schools for technical training, languages, mathematics and logic, let alone specialised schools for the three major religions, they being Hinduism, Islam, and Sikhism. There were craft schools specialising in miniature painting, sketching, drafting, architecture, and calligraphy. There wasn't a mosque, a temple, a dharmsala that had not a school attached to it. All the sciences in Arabic and Sanskrit schools and colleges, as well as Oriental literature, Oriental law, Logic, Philosophy, and Medicine were taught to the highest standard. In Lahore, Schools opened from 7am and closed at midday. In no case was a class allowed to exceed 50 pupils.\n\nThe Sikh Fauj-i-Ain (regular army) consisted of roughly 71,000 men and consisted of infantry, cavalry, and artillery units. Ranjit Singh employed generals and soldiers from many countries including Russia, Italy, France, and America.\n\nThere was strong collaboration in defense against foreign incursions such as those initiated by Shah Zaman and Timur Shah Durrani. The city of Amritsar was attacked numerous times. Yet the time is remembered by Sikh historians as the \"Heroic Century\". This is mainly to describe the rise of Sikhs to political power against large odds. The circumstances were hostile religious environment against Sikhs, a tiny Sikh population compared to other religious and political powers, which were much larger in the region than the Sikhs.\n\nIn 1834 the Khalsa under Nau Nihal Singh, Hari Singh Nalwa, Jean-Baptiste Ventura, and Claude August Court conquered Peshawar and extended the Sikh Raj up to Jamrud, Afghanistan.\n\nAfter Maharaja Ranjit Singh's death in 1839, the empire was severely weakened by internal divisions and political mismanagement. This opportunity was used by the British Empire to launch the First Anglo-Sikh War. The Battle of Ferozeshah in 1845 marked many turning points, the British encountered the Punjabi Army, opening with a gun-duel in which the Sikhs \"had the better of the British artillery\". But as the British made advancements, Europeans in their army were especially targeted, as the Sikhs believed if the army \"became demoralised, the backbone of the enemy's position would be broken\". The fighting continued throughout the night earning the nickname \"night of terrors\". The British position \"grew graver as the night wore on\", and \"suffered terrible casualties with every single member of the Governor General's staff either killed or wounded\".\n\nBritish General Sire James Hope Grant recorded: \"Truly the night was one of gloom and forbidding and perhaps never in the annals of warfare has a British Army on such a large scale been nearer to a defeat which would have involved annihilation\" The Punjabi ended up recovering their camp, and the British were exhausted. Lord Hardinge sent his son to Mudki with a sword from his Napoleonic campaigns. A note in Robert Needham Cust's diary revealed that the \"British generals decided to lay down arms: News came from the Governor General that our attack of yesterday had failed, that affairs were disparate, all state papers were to be destroyed, and that if the morning attack failed all would be over, this was kept secret by Mr. Currie and we were considering measures to make an unconditional surrender to save the wounded...\".\n\nHowever, a series of events of the Sikhs being betrayed by some prominent leaders in the army led to its downfall. Maharaja Gulab Singh and Dhian Singh, were Hindu Dogras from Jammu, and top Generals of the army. Tej Singh and Lal Singh were secretly allied to the British. They supplied important war plans of the Army, and provided the British with updated vital intelligence on the Army dealings, which ended up changing the scope of the war and benefiting the British positions.\nThe Punjab Empire was finally dissolved after a series of wars with the British at the end of the Second Anglo-Sikh War in 1849 into separate princely states, and the British province of Punjab that where granted a statehood, and eventually a lieutenant governorship stationed in Lahore as a direct representative of the Royal Crown in London.\n\nEvery village in the Punjab, through the Tehsildar (taxman), had an ample supply of the Punjabi \"qaida\" (beginners book), which was compulsory for females and thus, almost every Punjabi woman was literate in the sense that she could read and write the \"lundee\" form of Gurmukhi.\n\nIn the carnage of revenge that followed 1857, the British Raj made it a special effort to search every house of a village and to burn every book. Even in the secular schools of Lahore which used Persian or \"lundee\" Gurmukhi which was given by guru angad dev ji, as the medium of instruction, books formed the major bonfire than the British troops 'cleansed' the region.\n\nUnder the East India Company and then British colonial rule from 1858 Sikhs were feared and respected for their martial ability. After they played a key role in the suppression of the Indian 'Mutiny' of 1857-8. Sikhs were increasingly incorporated into the Indian army because they were not only seen as 'loyal', but because the British believed that they were a 'martial race' whose religious traditions and popular customs made them skilled fighters.\n\nThe Sikhs again were honoured in the Battle of Saragarhi where twenty-one Sikhs of the 4th Battalion (then 36th Sikhs) of the Sikh Regiment of British India, died defending an army post from 10,000 Afghan and Orakzai tribesmen in 1897.\n\nIn 1873 and 1879 the First and Second Singh Sabha was founded, the Sikh leaders of the Singh Sabha worked to offer a clear definition of Sikh identity and tried to purify Sikh belief and practice.\n\nIn 1882 The first Punjab university, University of the Punjab, was founded at Lahore. In 1892 the Khalsa College was founded in Amritsar. In 1907 The Khalsa Diwan Society is established in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. In 1911 The first Gurdwara is established in London. In 1912 the First Gurdwara in United States was established in Stockton, California.\n\nIn the late 1800s and early 1900s Punjabi and Sikhs began to immigrate to East Africa, the Far East, Canada, the United States, and the United Kingdom.\n\nIn two world wars 83,005 Sikh soldiers were killed and 109,045 were wounded. Sikh soldiers died or were wounded for the freedom of Britain and the world and during shell fire, with no other protection but their turban (a symbol of the Sikh faith).\n\nAt offset of World War I, Sikh military personnel numbered around 35,000 men of the 161,000 troops, which is around 22% of the British Armed Forces, yet the Sikhs only made up less than 2% of the total population in India. Sikhs, before and after this were, and are, well known for their martial skills, freedom in speaking their minds, and their daredevil courage.\n\nDuring World War I thousands of Sikhs from India fought alongside with Britain and many sacrificed their lives for the greater cause. The Royal Military Academy Sandhurst honored Sikhs by featured a re-enacting by 36 Sikh volunteers. Kameldeep Singh Samra, from Birmingham talked and emphasized the importance of Sikhs in British Army who fought defending the British Empire against its enemies\n\nIn 1920 The Akali Party is established to free gurdwaras from corrupt masands (treasurers), and the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SPGC) is founded. In 1925 The Punjab Sikh Gurdwaras Act is passed, which transfers control of the Punjab's historic gurdwaras to the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee.\n\nIn 1919 the massacre of Jallianwala Bagh massacre in Amritsar during the festival of Vaisakhi when 15,000 to 20,000 peaceful protesters including women, children and the elderly where shot at under the orders of Reginald Dyer.\n\nA non-violent agitation to assert the right to felling trees for Guru ka Langar from the land attached to Gurdwara Guru ka Bagh was underway. The first Sikh volunteers were arrested and tried for trespass, but from 25 August police resorted to beating day after day the batches of Sikhs that came. eventually the beating stopped and the procedure of arrests resumed with jail time of about two and a half years and a fine of one hundred rupees each.\n\nOne such train left Amritsar on 29 October 1922 for the Attock Fort which would touch Hasan Abdal the following morning. The Sikhs of Panja Sahib decided to serve a meal to the detenues but when they reached the railway station with the food they were informed by the station master that the train was not scheduled to halt there.\n\nTwo of the Sikhs, Bhai Pratap Singh and Bhai Karam Singh who were leading the sangat went forward as the rumbling sound of the approaching train was heard and sat crosslegged in the middle of the track. Several others, men and women, followed suit. The train ran over eleven of the squatters before stopping while the Sikhs pleaded to serve the arrested Sikhs before proceeding. The Sikhs served the Singhs in the train and then turned to the injured. The worst mauled were Bhai Pratap Singh and Bhai Karam Singh, who succumbed to their injuries the following day.\n\nIn 1924 A special Jatha of five hundred Akalis approaching Jaito, India is fired upon by police; two hundred were injured and one hundred died. but the freedom to hold Akhand Path at Jaito was obtained after a span of one year and ten months.\n\nSohan Singh Bhakna, Kartar Singh Sarabha, alongside many other Punjabi's founded the Ghadar party to overthrow British colonial authority in India by means of an armed revolution. The Ghadar party is closely associated with the Babbar Akali Movement, a 1921 splinter group of \"militant\" Sikhs who broke away from the mainstream non-violent Akali movement.\n\nIn 1914 Baba Gurdit Singh led the Komagata Maru ship to the port of Vancouver with 346 Sikhs on board; forced to leave port on 23 July. Bela Singh Jain an informer and agent of Inspector William Hopkinson, pulled out two guns and started shooting at the Khalsa Diwan Society Gurdwara Sahib on West 2nd Avenue. He murdered Bhai Bhag Singh, President of the Society and Battan Singh and Bela Singh was charged with murder, but Hopkinson decided to appear as a witness in his case and made up much of his testimony at his trail and subsequently Bela Singh was acquitted. On 21 October 1914, Bhai Mewa Singh, Granthi of Khalsa Diwan Society shot William Hopkinson in the Assize court corridor with two revolvers because he believed him to be unscrupulous and corrupt, using informers to spy on Indian immigrants. Canadian policeman William Hopkinson shot and killed by Mewa Singh who is later sentenced to death.\n\nIn 1926 Six Babar (literally, lion) revolutionary Akalis, are put to death by hanging.\n\nIn 1931 Bhagat Singh, Rajguru, and Sukhdev are convicted of murder of police inspector J.P. Saunders and executed; Bhagat Singh is popularly known as Shaheedey Azam (supreme martyr)\n\nIn 1940 Udham Singh, an Indian revolutionary socialist, assassinated Michael O'Dwyer to avenge justice for the Jallianwalla Bagh Massacre when 15,000 to 20,000 people including women, children were shot at after a peaceful protest in Amritsar\n\nBhagat Puran Singh Pingalwara dedicated his life to the 'selfless service of humanity'. He founded Pingalwara in 1947 with only a few patients, the neglected and rejected of the streets of Amritsar. An early advocate of what we today refer to as the 'Green Revolution', Bhagat Puran Singh was spreading awareness about environmental pollution, and increasing soil erosion long before such ideas became popular.\n\nThe months leading up to the partition of India in 1947, saw heavy conflict in the Punjab between Sikh and Muslims, which saw the effective religious migration of Punjabi Sikhs and Hindus from West Punjab which mirrored a similar religious migration of Punjabi Muslims in East Punjab. The 1960s saw growing animosity and rioting between Punjabi Sikhs and Hindus in India, as the Punjabi Sikhs agitated for the creation of a Punjabi Sikh majority state, an undertaking which was promised to the Sikh leader Master Tara Singh by Nehru in return for Sikh political support during the negotiations for Indian Independence. Sikhs obtained the Sikh majority state of Punjab on 1 November 1966.\n\nIn 1950 the Sikh Rehat Maryada is published.\n\nIn 1962 the Punjabi University is inaugurated at Patiala, India\n\nCommunal tensions arose again in the late 1970s, fueled by Sikh claims of discrimination and marginalisation by the secularist dominated Indian National Congress ruling party and the \"dictatorial\" tactics adopted the then Indian Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi. Frank argues that Gandhi's assumption of emergency powers in 1975 resulted in the weakening of the \"legitimate and impartial machinery of government\" and her increasing \"paranoia\" of opposing political groups led her to instigate a \"despotic policy of playing castes, religions and political groups against each other for political advantage\". As a reaction against these actions came the emergence of the Sikh leader Sant Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale who vocalised Sikh sentiment for justice. This accelerated Punjab into a state of communal violence. Gandhi's 1984 action to defeat Sant Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale led to desecration of the Golden Temple in Operation Blue Star and ultimately led to Gandhi's assassination by her Sikh bodyguards and led to the Sarbat Khalsa advocating the creation of a Sikh homeland, Khalistan. This resulted in an explosion of violence against the Sikh community in the Anti Sikh Riots which resulted in the massacre of thousands of Sikhs throughout India; Khushwant Singh described the actions as being a Sikh pogrom in which he \"felt like a refugee in my country. In fact, I felt like a Jew in Nazi Germany\". Since 1984, relations between Sikhs and Hindus have reached a rapprochement helped by growing economic prosperity; however in 2002 the claims of the popular right-wing Hindu organisation the RSS, that \"Sikhs are Hindus\" angered Sikh sensibilities. Many Sikhs still are campaigning for justice for victims of the violence and the political and economic needs of the Punjab espoused in the Khalistan movement.\n\nIn 1996 the Special Rapporteur for the Commission on Human Rights on freedom of religion or belief, Abdelfattah Amor (Tunisia, 1993–2004), visited India in order to compose a report on religious discrimination. In 1997, Amor concluded, \"it appears that the situation of the Sikhs in the religious field is satisfactory, but that difficulties are arising in the political (foreign interference, terrorism, etc.), economic (in particular with regard to sharing of water supplies) and even occupational fields. Information received from nongovernment (sic) sources indicates that discrimination does exist in certain sectors of the public administration; examples include the decline in the number of Sikhs in the police force and the absence of Sikhs in personal bodyguard units since the murder of Indira Gandhi.\" The reduced intake of the Sikhs in the Indian armed forces also attributes to following certain orders issued in the Indian Emergency of 1975/1977.\n\nIn 2002, Arjan Singh became the Marshal of Indian Airforce.\n\nOn 22 May 2004 Manmohan Singh became the first Sikh to become the Prime Minister of India.\n\nThere are a number of small pseudo-sikh sects who are not considered to be Sikhs. See Sects of Sikhism for more information.\n\n"}
{"id": "4200572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4200572", "title": "Islam in Honduras", "text": "Islam in Honduras\n\nThe statistics for Islam in Honduras estimate a total Muslim population of 5,000- 6,000 representing 0.1 percent of the population. Although there are no official statistics, it is estimated that between 150,000-200,000 of the country's eight million inhabitants are of Arab descent, and of these, the great majority are Palestinian Arabs. However, the vast majority of these Arabs are of Orthodox and Catholic Christian descent. No other country in the Western Hemisphere has a higher proportion of Arab immigrants and, in absolute numbers, Honduras ranks seventh after the United States, Mexico, Colombia, Venezuela, Canada and Chile. There are two known Islamic organizations in Honduras, including the Centro Islámico de Honduras in San Pedro Sula led by Yusuf Amdani, and the Comunidad Islámica de Honduras in Cortés.\n\nHonduras received its first Arab immigrant in 1896, and by 1918, according to a local survey, Arab immigrants were largely Palestinian Christians in San Pedro Sula, the country's second-largest city. They immigrated due to the Ottoman control of Palestine, where Arabs fled with Ottoman passports gaining their commonly known nickname, Turkish (\"Turcos\"). Immigration picked up again after World War II and the Arab-Israeli war of 1948. In 1984, an Islamic charitable organization was founded, with the main object of taking care of the interests of the Arabs and Muslims in the country, and they have since built a mosque, where they meet and discuss their social and religious affairs, including the education of their children, the most important of which is teaching them the Qur’an and the Arabic language.\n\n"}
{"id": "1183459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1183459", "title": "Islam in Thailand", "text": "Islam in Thailand\n\nIslam is a minority faith in Thailand, with statistics suggesting 4.9 percent of the population are Muslim. Figures as high as 5 percent of Thailand's population have also been mentioned. Most Thai Muslims belong to the branch of Sunni Islam, although Thailand has a diverse population that includes immigrants from around the world.\n\nPopular opinion seems to hold that a vast majority of the country's Muslims are found in the Thailand's four southernmost provinces of Satun, Yala, Pattani and Narathiwat, where they make up majority of the population. However, the Thai Ministry of Foreign Affairs' research indicates that only 18 percent of Thai Muslims live in those three provinces. The rest are scattered throughout Thailand, with the largest concentrations being in Bangkok and throughout the southern region.\n\nAccording to the National Statistics Office, in 2005, Muslims in southern Thailand made up 30.4 percent of the general population above the age 15, while less than three percent in other parts of the country.\n\nIn early modern Thailand, Muslims from the Coromandel Coast served as eunuchs in the Thai palace and court.\n\nThailand's Muslim population is diverse, with ethnic groups having migrated from as far as China, Pakistan, India, Cambodia, Bangladesh, Malaysia, and Indonesia, as well as including ethnic Thais, while about two-thirds of Muslims in Thailand are Thai Malays.\n\nMany Thai Muslims are ethnically and linguistically Thai, who are either hereditary Muslims, Muslims by intermarriage, or recent converts to the faith. Ethnic Thai Muslims live mainly in the central and southern provinces - varying from entire Muslim communities to mixed settlements. \n\nFormer Commander-in-Chief of the Royal Thai Army General Sonthi Boonyaratglin is an example of an indigenous Thai Muslim. Sonthi is of remote Persian ancestry. His ancestor, Sheikh Ahmad of Qom, was an Iranian expatriate trader who lived in the Ayutthaya Kingdom for 26 years. Many Thais, including those of the Bunnag and Ahmadchula families trace their ancestry back to him. Sri Sulalai was a princess of the royal family of the Sultanate of Singora. Rama II of Siam took her as a concubine.\n\nIn 1946 Prince Bhumibol Adulyadej and Ananda Mahidol, Rama VIII, toured the Tonson Mosque.\n\nIn the three southernmost border provinces, the vast majority of the local Muslim population is predominantly Malay, amounting to about 80 percent of the region's population. Thai Malays speak Kelantan-Pattani Malay, which is in a different language family entirely than the Thai language. This adds to the culturally unique identity of Thai Malay Muslims.\n\nThe high number of Malay origin inhabitants in the southern region is due the historical nature of the area, which was once known as the Pattani Kingdom, an Islamic Malay kingdom established in the 19th century, but later annexed to Thailand. Similarly, there is an ethnic Thai minority in northern Malaysia.\n\nIn the far north, as well as in select central and southern urban areas, there are pockets of Thai Muslims of Hui (ethnic Chinese Muslim) origin. Most Chinese Muslims belong to a group of people called Chin Haw in Thai, although most Chin Haw are not Muslims. Some historians believe that the name Chin Haw can be explained to be a combination of \"Chin\" (China) and \"Ho\" (Hui). The Chin Haw thus can be seen as traders and émigrés who carried with them Hui traditions from China. One of the best known Chinese mosques is Ban Ho Mosque in Chiang Mai Province.\n\nEthnic groups such as the Rohingya are refugees who are scattered throughout Thailand's refugee camps, rural fishing villages, as well as in many small towns and cities close to the Myanmar border. \n\nNorthern Thailand, as well as being home to many Chinese Muslims, also is home to many Burmese, and mixed Chinese-Burmese or Pakistani-Burmese peoples.\n\nOther represented groups include Muslim Chams, originally from Cambodia, who can be found between the mutual border and Bangkok as well as the deep south. In the 1700s and 1800s Cambodia-based Chams settled in Bangkok.\n\nOther groups include South Asians (especially Indians, Pakistanis and Bangladeshis) and Indonesian Muslims, especially Bugis, Javanese and Minangkabau.\n\nAccording to a 1685 account of a Persian diplomat as well as notes of the French traveller Guy Tachard, there was a substantial Persian Shi'i community in Thailand at the time, with ritual \"ta'zieh\" performances subsidised by the king.\n\nGenerally there is a small circle of theologically trained believers of the Islamic faith in Thailand and large general Muslim masses which follow certain customs and traditions associated with traditional Islam influenced by Sufism.\n\nFor Thai Muslims, like their co-coreligionists in Southeast Asia's other Buddhist-majority countries, Mawlid is a symbolic reminder of the historical presence of Islam in the country. It is also represents an annual opportunity to reaffirm Muslims' status as Thai citizens and their allegiance to the monarchy.\n\nThe Islamic faith in Thailand, is integrated with Sufi beliefs and practices, as in other Asian countries like Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, Indonesia and Malaysia. The Ministry of Culture's Islamic Department gives awards to Muslims who have contributed to the promotion and development of Thai life in their roles as citizens, as educators and as social workers. In Bangkok, the Ngarn Mawlid Klang main festival is a vibrant showcase for the Thai Muslim community and their lifestyles.\n\nAccording to the National Statistics Office of Thailand in 2007, the country had 3494 mosques, with the largest number, 636, in Pattani Province. According to the Religious Affairs Department (RAD), 99 percent of the mosques are associated with Sunni Islam with the remaining one percent Shi'i Islam.\n\nChularatchamontri (จุฬาราชมนตรี) is the title of Shaykh al-Islām in Thailand. The title was first used in the Ayutthaya Kingdom when King Songtham (1611–1628) appointed Sheikh Ahmad to the office. Pursuant to the current Islamic Organ Administration Act, BE 2540 (1997), Chularatchamontri is appointed by the king upon advice of the prime minister. He has the authority to administer all Islamic affairs in the nation and to provide advice on Islamic affairs to governmental agencies. Chularatchamontri vacates his office upon death, resignation and removal by the king upon the advice of the prime minister.\n\nThere is also a Central Islamic Council of Thailand (คณะกรรมการกลางอิสลามแห่งประเทศไทย) (CICOT) (กอท.), consisting of at least five councillors appointed by the king. The CICOT advises the Minister of Education and the Minister of Interior on Islamic matters. Its presiding officer is Chularatchamontri. Provincial Islamic Councils (คณะกรรมการอิสลามประจำจังหวัด) exist in the provinces that had substantial Muslim minorities. There are other links between the government and the Muslim community, including government financial assistance to Islamic education institutions, assistance with construction of some of the larger mosques, and the funding of pilgrimages by Thai Muslims to Mecca, both Bangkok and Hat Yai being primary gateway cities.\n\nThailand also maintains several hundred Islamic schools at the primary and secondary levels, as well as Islamic banks, including the Islamic Bank of Thailand, shops and other institutions. Much of Thailand's packaged food is tested and labelled halal if applicable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34373877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34373877", "title": "Jewish polemics and apologetics in the Middle Ages", "text": "Jewish polemics and apologetics in the Middle Ages\n\nJewish polemics and apologetics in the Middle Ages were texts written to protect and dissuade Jewish communities from conversion to Christianity, or more rarely to Islam. The terms polemics (from \"battles\") and apologetics (from \"defence\") may be distinguished but may also be considered somewhat subjective. A smaller number of proselytizing text also exists intended to convert Christians, or more rarely Muslims, to Judaism.\n\nDefences of Judaism to Greek, Egyptian and Roman religionists are found in Philo's \"Apology on behalf of the Jews\", and Josephus' \"Against Apion\" as well as other Hellenistic Jewish authors. In the early centuries following the emergence of Christianity from Judaism, but before Christianity's establishment as state religion by Constantine, mutual Jewish-Christian debate, polemics and apologetics occurred as for example in the words of Rabbi Tarfon and, on the other side, Justin Martyr's \"Dialogue with Trypho,\" and the lost Dialogue of Jason and Papiscus (2nd century), and the later Dialogue of Athanasius and Zacchaeus (4th century), Dialogue of Simon and Theophilus (5th century), and Dialogue of Timothy and Aquila (6th century).\n\nThe Middle Ages is generally counted as covering Europe from the 5th to 15th centuries.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages many polemical texts originated outside Catholic Europe in lands where Jews and Christians were on an even footing as subjects of Islam. Among the oldest anti-Christian texts with polemic intent is the \"Toledot Yeshu\" \"Life of Jesus\" (7th century), although this does not follow the reasoned format of argument found in a true polemic or apologetic work. The earliest true polemic is the \"Sefer Nestor Ha-Komer\" \"The Book of Nestor the Priest\" (c. 600 CE). The book represents itself as the arguments for Judaism of a former Christian (possibly Nestorian) priest. The need for apologetics emerged as national boundaries were in flux.\n\nSaadia's \"Kitab al-Amanat wal-I'tikadat\" \"Book of Belief and Opinions\" (933) includes refutations of the Christian Trinity, and more restrainedly against Hiwi al-Balkhi's arguments against the Jewish scriptures. The Cairo Genizah fragments include polemics against Samaritans, Christianity, and Islam, as well as Jewish sects, from the early 10th century. Both Jews and Christians under Islam were careful in criticism of, or proselytizing to, their host's religion, in response to Muslim proselytzing of Jews and Christians. Judah Halevi's Arabic \"Kitab al Khazari\" \"Book of the Khazars\" (c 1120), subtitled \"The book of refutation and proof on behalf of the despised religion,\" included apologetics to Islam alongside Christianity and Greek philosophy.\n\nJews in Europe began to write polemical works in the 12th century. The \"Milhamoth ha-Shem\" \"Wars of the Name\" of Jacob ben Reuben (12th century) is an apologetic text against conversion by Christians, notable in that it contains questions and answers based on selected Hebrew translations of the Latin Gospel of Matthew and appears to have served as a precedent for the full Hebrew translation and interspersed commentary on Matthew found in Ibn Shaprut's \"Touchstone\" (c. 1385). \n\nJoseph Kimhi's \"Sefer ha-Berit\" \"Book of the covenant\" (c. 1150) follows Jacob ben Reuben's format of an apologetic response to Christian argument, but does not only refute Christian challenges, Kimhi also identifies weaknesses of Christian belief.\n\nAround the same period are the \"Sefer Nizzahon Yashan\" \"The (old) Book of Victory\" (in Latin \"Nizzahon vetus\", to distinguish from Prague rabbi Yom-Tov Lipmann-Muhlhausen's 1405 polemical work) a \"typical Ashkenazic polemic,\" and the \"Sefer Joseph Hamekane\" \"Book of Joseph the Official\" of rabbi Joseph ben Nathan (13th century) which presents among other arguments a conversation between a Christian, the 'Chancellor,' and two rabbis.\nOther apologetic works include Joseph Albo's \"Sefer Ha-Ikkarim\" \"Book of Principles\" (1420), Chasdai Crescas' \"Or Adonai\" \"Light of the Lord\" (1410), Isaac of Troki's \"Hizzuk emunah\" \"Faith strengthened\" (1590).\n\nA subcategory of apologetics in the late medieval period is found in necessary Jewish responses to highly dangerous Christian charges concerning material related to Jesus in the Talmud, found in the responses of Yechiel of Paris, Moses of Coucy, and Judah of Melun at the Disputation of Paris (1240), Nachmanides at the Disputation of Barcelona (1263), and Profiat Duran \"Shame of the Gentiles\" (1375), Joseph Albo (mentioned above) and Astruc HaLevi at the Disputation of Tortosa (1413).\n\nFollowing the Renaissance the religious landscape of Europe changed with the Reformation and Counter-Reformation. Notable among apologeticists of the 17th century was Elijah Montalto, personal physician to Maria de Medici in Paris until his death in 1611, among others such as Menasseh ben Israel, author of \"Vindiciae Judaeorum\" whose works were printed by the Jewish community of Amsterdam. Montalto's student Saul Levi Morteira continued in Montalto's tradition of conducting a rational polemical criticism of Christianity. Many polemical works, like Leon of Modena's \"Magen va-Herev\" \"Shield and Sword\", were designed to win back conversos.\n\n"}
{"id": "53689660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53689660", "title": "Joseph of Antioch", "text": "Joseph of Antioch\n\nJoseph was the Patriarch of Antioch, and head of the Syriac Orthodox Church from 790 until his death in 792.\n\nPrior to his consecration as patriarch, Joseph was a monk at the Monastery of Gubba Baraya, near Mabbogh. According to Dionysius I Telmaharoyo, Joseph was elected as patriarch in 790 in fear of the Monastery of Gubba Baraya, which was powerful enough to cause serious disruption to the church. He is not considered to have been particularly intelligent as a result of his lack of education.\n\nSoon after his consecration, Zachariah, former Bishop of Edessa, who had been removed due to complaints from local clergy, convinced Joseph to travel with him to the city to persuade locals to accept him as their bishop. The Syriac Orthodox population of Edessa, however, rejected Zachariah. Joseph served as patriarch until his death in 792 whilst visiting a monastery near Tell Beshmay.\n"}
{"id": "7939505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7939505", "title": "Judah Leib Prossnitz", "text": "Judah Leib Prossnitz\n\nJudah Leib (Leibele) (Löbele) Prossnitz (c. 1670 – c. 1730/1750) was a kabbalist born about the end of the seventeenth century at Uherský Brod, Moravia. He left his native city and went to Prostějov (German: Prossnitz), Moravia, where he married, earning a livelihood by peddling in the neighboring villages. On account of his poverty he occupied a deserted hovel, which was reputed to be haunted.\n\nOne night he promised to summon the Shekhina to appear at midnight in a large gathering. Prossnitz stretched across his room a perforated curtain, behind which he had secretly lighted a mixture of alcohol and turpentine. He himself, robed in white, stood behind the curtain, and the light brought out in full relief the gilt letters of the Tetragrammaton, which he had placed on his breast. The spectators were disposed to believe in a miracle, when someone present, (Jacob Emden believes it to be the rabbi), pulled down the curtain and exposed the fraud. Prossnitz was excommunicated by the rabbis of Moravia, among them the \"Landrabbiner\" David Oppenheim.\n\nIn spite of all, Prossnitz found many followers among the Sabbateans. He proclaimed himself the Messiah ben Joseph, and signed his name \"Joseph ben Jacob.\" He had relations with the Sabbatean Mordecai Eisenstadt and with Jonathan Eybeschütz, and seems to have been especially influenced by the Sabbatean Nehemiah Hayyun. Prossnitz wandered from city to city in Austria and Germany, where many persons supplied him with funds. In 1725 the excommunication was renewed, whereupon he moved to Hungary. Emden relates that he died there among non-Jews.\n\nProssnitz taught that, since the appearance of Shabbatai Zevi, God had entrusted the guidance of the world to him, after whose ascent to heaven the mission passed to Jonathan Eybeschütz and, finally, to Prossnitz himself.\n\n"}
{"id": "4395096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4395096", "title": "Ken Chant", "text": "Ken Chant\n\nKen Chant (born: Kenneth David Chant; 6 June 1933) is an Australian Pentecostal pastor with the CRC Churches International. He was ordained in 1952 in the CRC. He is the elder brother of Barry Chant, who is the founder (with the Reverend Dennis Slape) and former president of Tabor College, Australia.\n\nChant has planted eight churches and been pastor of several others. For several years he was the editor of two Australian charismatic and Pentecostal journals, \"Revivalist\" and \"Vision\". He has been the principal of four Bible colleges (in Australia and the USA) and has spoken and taught in churches, crusades, conferences, seminars and colleges in a dozen different countries worldwide.\n\nOn June 9, 2014, Dr Chant was appointed of the Order of Australia (OAM), General Division, in the Queen's Honours List.\n\nIn 1974 he established Vision International College in Launceston, Tasmania, as a \"Bible correspondence school\". To enhance this teaching ministry, he moved to the USA in 1981 and, with Stan DeKoven, established Vision International University, which merged the correspondence courses with a local church campus program. In 2010 the college had some 7000 teaching centres in more than 150 countries with more than 100,000 students.\n\nChant is the author of 40 books, including many college texts. He has also composed a number of gospel songs published in various collections both in Australia and other countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "275266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=275266", "title": "List of Patriarchs of the Church of the East", "text": "List of Patriarchs of the Church of the East\n\nThe Patriarch of the Church of the East (Patriarch of Babylon or Patriarch of the East) is the patriarch, or leader and head bishop (sometimes referred to as Catholicos or universal leader) of the Assyrian Church of the East. The position dates to the early centuries of Christianity within the Sassanid Empire, and the church has been known by a variety of names, including the Church of the East, Nestorian Church, the Persian Church, the Sassanid Church, or \"East Syrian\". In the 16th and 17th century the Church, by now restricted to its original Assyrian homeland in Upper Mesopotamia, experienced a series of splits, resulting in a series of competing patriarchs and lineages. Today, the three principal churches that emerged from these splits, the Assyrian Church of the East, Ancient Church of the East and the Chaldean Catholic Church, each have their own patriarch, the Patriarch of the Assyrian Church of the East, the Patriarch of the Ancient Church of the East and the Patriarch of Babylon of the Chaldeans, respectively.\n\nThe geographic location of the patriarchate was first in the Persian capital of Seleucia-Ctesiphon in central Mesopotamia. In the 9th century the patriarchate moved to Baghdad and then through various cities in what was then Assyria (Assuristan/Athura) and is now northern Iraq, south east Turkey and northwest Iran, including, Tabriz, Mosul, and Maragheh on Lake Urmia. Following the Chaldean Catholic Church split from the Assyrian Church, the respective patriarchs of these churches continued to move around northern Iraq. In the 19th century, the patriarchate of the Assyrian Church of the East was in the village of Qudshanis in southeastern Turkey. In the 20th century, the Assyrian patriarch went into exile, relocating to Chicago, Illinois, United States. Another patriarchate, which split off in the 1960s as the Ancient Church of the East, is in Baghdad.\n\nThe patriarchate of the Church of the East evolved from the position of the leader of the Christian community in Seleucia-Ctesiphon, the Persian capital. While Christianity had been introduced into Assyria then largely under the rule of the Parthian Empire in the first centuries AD, during the earliest period, leadership was unorganized and there was no established succession. In 280, Papa bar Aggai was consecrated as Bishop of Seleucia-Ctesiphon by two visiting bishops, Akha d'abuh' of Arbela and Hai-Beël of Susa, thereby establishing the generally recognized succession. Seleucia-Ctesiphon thus became its own episcopal see, and exerted some \"de facto\" control over the wider Persian Christian community. Papa's successors began to use the title of \"Catholicos\", a Roman designation probably adopted due to its use by the Catholicos of Armenia, though at first it carried no formal recognition. In 409 the Church of the East received state recognition from the Sassanid Emperor Yazdegerd I, and the Council of Seleucia-Ctesiphon was called, at which the church's hierarchy was formalized. Bishop Mar Isaac was the first to be officially styled Catholicos over all of the Christians in Persia. Over the next decades, the Catholicoi adopted the additional title of Patriarch, which eventually became the better known designation.\n\nIn the 16th century, another schism separated the church, with those following \"Nestorianism\" separating from a group which entered into communion with the Roman Catholic Church. This latter group, known initially as \"The Church of Assyria and Mosul\", and latterly the Chaldean Catholics, continues also to maintain its own list of Chaldean Catholic patriarchs.\n\nBecause of the complex history of Eastern Christianity, it is difficult to define one single lineage of patriarchs, though some modern churches, such as the Assyrian Church of the East, claim all patriarchs through the centuries as the Assyrian Patriarch, even though the modern version of the church did not come into being until much more recently.\n\nToday, the ethnically Assyrian adherents of the Assyrian Church of the East, Ancient Church of the East and Chaldean Catholic Church celebrate the liturgy of Mar Addai and Mar Mari in Syriac, a dialect which (along with Eastern Aramaic) emerged in Assyria during the 5th century BC, as do Assyrian members of the Syriac Orthodox Church (largely centred in north east Syria and south east Turkey)), and Assyrian Protestant churches such as the Assyrian Evangelical Church and Assyrian Pentecostal Church.\n\nAt its peak, the Church of the East expanded from its Assyrian heartland, and it celebrated the liturgy in East Syriac in modern-day Syria, Israel, Palestine, Yemen, Saudi Arabia, Oman, UAE, Cyprus, Armenia], Georgia, Turkey, Iraq, Iran, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Kyrgyzstan, India, Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Indonesia, Mongolia, China and Japan. The church also uses Assyrian Neo-Aramaic, Chaldean Neo-Aramaic and Suryoyo which are the vernacular dialects of the Assyrian people as well as English, Arabic, Persian, Turkish and the languages of the countries of the Assyrian Diaspora.\n\nAccording to Church legend, the Apostleship of Edessa (Chaldea) is alleged to have been founded by Shimun Keepa (Saint Peter) (33–64), Thoma Shlikha, (Saint Thomas), Tulmay (St. Bartholomew the Apostle) and of course Mar Addai, (St. Thaddeus) of the Seventy disciples. Saint Thaddeus was martyred c.66 AD.\n\n\nAround 280, visiting bishops consecrated Papa bar Aggai as Bishop of Seleucia-Ctesiphon, thereby establishing the succession. With him, heads of the church took the title Catholicos.\n\n\nIsaac was recognised as 'Grand Metropolitan' and Primate of the Church of the East at the Synod of Seleucia-Ctesiphon in 410. The acts of this Synod were later edited by the Patriarch Joseph (552–567) to grant him the title of Catholicos as well. This title for Patriarch Isaac in fact only came into use towards the end of the fifth century.\n\n\nWith Dadisho, the significant disagreement on the dates of the Catholicoi in the sources start to converge. In 424, under Mar Dadisho I, the Church of the East declared itself independent of all other churches; thereafter, its Catholicoi began to use the additional title of Patriarch. During his reign, Nestorianism was subsequently denounced at the Council of Ephesus in 431.\n\n\nIn 544 the Synod of Mar Aba I adopted the ordinances of the Council of Chalcedon.\n\n\nFrom 628, the Maphrian also began to use the title Catholicos. See the List of Maphrians for details.\n\n\nIn 775, the seat transferred from Seleucia-Ctesiphon to Baghdad, the recently established capital of the Abbasid caliphs.\n\n\nBy the Schism of 1552 the Church of the East was divided into many splinters but two main factions, of which one (the Church of Assyria and Mosul) entered into full communion with the Catholic Church and the other remained independent. A split in the former line in 1681 resulted in a third faction.\n\"1. Eliya line in Alqosh:\"\n\"In 1780, a group split from the Eliya line and elected:\n\n\"2. Shemon line in Amid, Siirt, Urmia, Salmas, in communion with Rome until 1600:\"\n\"Shemon line reintroduced hereditary succession; not recognised by Rome; moved to Qochanis\"\n\"Shemon line in Qochanis formally broke communion with Rome, forming the Assyrian Church of the East in 1692:\"\n\n\"3. In 1681, the Josephite line split from the Eliya line; with residence erected in Amid, in full communion with Rome:\"\nThe Eliya line (1) in Alqosh ended in 1804, and branch of Yohannan VIII Hormizd, that was in communion with Rome, merged with the Catholic Josephite line in Amid (3), with Yohannan VIII Hormizd recognised by the Holy See as Patriarch of Babylon of the Chaldeans in 1830. This merged line, which relocated the see to Mosul, formed the contemporary unbroken patriarchal line of the Chaldean Catholic Church. For subsequent Chaldean Catholic Patriarchs, see List of Chaldean Catholic Patriarchs of Babylon.\n\nThe Shemon line (2) remained the only line not in full communion with the Catholic Church, which from the 19th-century continued to be known as the Assyrian Church of the East. For subsequent patriarchs in this line, see List of Patriarchs of the Assyrian Church of the East.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48375096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48375096", "title": "List of Tōshō-gū", "text": "List of Tōshō-gū\n\nA Tōshō-gū (東照宮) is any Shinto shrine in which Tokugawa Ieyasu is enshrined with the name Tōshō Daigongen (東照大権現).\n\nThree of the shrines are enumerated as the Three Great Tōshō-gū Shrines (日本三大東照宮):\n\n"}
{"id": "24883674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24883674", "title": "List of saints of Ireland", "text": "List of saints of Ireland\n\nThis is a list of the saints of Ireland, which attempts to give an overview of saints from Ireland or venerated in Ireland.\n\nThe vast majority of these saints lived during the 4th—10th centuries, the period of early Christian Ireland, when Celtic Christianity produced many missionaries to Great Britain and the European continent. For this reason, Ireland in a 19th-century adage is described as \"the land of saints and scholars\".\n\nThe introduction of Christianity into Ireland was during the end of the 4th century. Its exact introduction is obscure, though the strict ascetic nature of monasticism in Ireland, derives from the Desert Fathers. Although there were some Christians in Ireland before him, Patrick, a native of Britain, played a significant role in its full Christianisation.\n\nSome of the most well known saints are the Twelve Apostles of Ireland and Brigit of Kildare.\nSaints canonized in the modern era include Oliver Plunkett (d. 1681, canonized 1975 by Pope Paul VI) and Charles of Mount Argus (d. 1893, canonized 2007 by Pope Benedict XVI).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6227580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6227580", "title": "Matsyasana", "text": "Matsyasana\n\nMatsyasana ( ; ; IAST: \"Matsyāsana\") or Fish Pose is an asana. \n\nIt is commonly considered a counterasana to Sarvangasana, or shoulder stand, specifically within the context of the Ashtanga Vinyasa Yoga Primary Series.\n\nThe name comes from the Sanskrit words \"matsya\" (मत्स्य) meaning \"fish\" and \"asana\" (आसन) meaning \"posture\" or \"seat\".\n\nThe asana is a backbend, where the practitioner lies on his or her back and lifts the heart (anahata) chakra by rising up on the elbows and drawing the shoulders back. The neck is lengthened, and the crown of the head Sahasrara chakra is \"pointed\" toward the 'wall' behind the practitioner. As the arch of the back deepens with practice, and the heart and throat open further, the top of the head may brush the ground, but no weight should rest upon it.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50349181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50349181", "title": "Michael Jensen (theologian)", "text": "Michael Jensen (theologian)\n\nMichael P. Jensen is an Australian clergyman, author, and lecturer. He has served as the rector in the Anglican parish of St Mark's Church, Darling Point since 2013; and was formerly a professor of theology at Moore College, Sydney. He is a son of the former archbishop of Sydney, The Most Reverend Peter Jensen.\n</ref>\nJensen is a prolific commentator in both religious and secular forums on a range of topics. For example, in April 2016 Jensen responded to columnist Peter FitzSimons' criticism of Mormon rugby player Will Hopoate.\n\nOn 6 May 2015 Jensen's book \"You: An Introduction\" (2008) was banned from state schools by the New South Wales Department of Education and Communities on the basis of a \"potential risk to students in the delivery of this material, if not taught sensitively and in an age appropriate manner.\" The ban was lifted 18 May 2015.\n\nIn September 2018, Jensen launched a podcast, With All Due Respect, which he co-hosts with Megan Powell du Toit, a Baptist minister. The podcast is the first one for Eternity News, an Australian Christian news site.\n\nOn 27 November 2018, Jensen published a widely panned opinion piece comparing John Allen Chau favourably to Jesus. Chau was a US missionary killed by the protected North Sentinelese tribe after travelling illegally and trespassing onto their island. In doing so, Chau risked wiping out the tribe by possibly introducing deadly pathogens the tribe had no immunity to. Jensen argued that Chau was \"not attempting to ... \"civilise\" them\" by hoping to introduce Christianity to the tribe, but only \"came to save\".\n"}
{"id": "6312524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6312524", "title": "Mímisbrunnr", "text": "Mímisbrunnr\n\nIn Norse mythology, Mímisbrunnr (Old Norse \"Mímir's well\") is a well associated with the being Mímir, located beneath the world tree Yggdrasil. Mímisbrunnr is attested in the \"Poetic Edda\", compiled in the 13th century from earlier traditional sources, and the \"Prose Edda\", written in the 13th century by Snorri Sturluson. The well is located beneath one of three roots of the world tree Yggdrasil, a root that passes into the land of the frost jötnar where the primordial plane of Ginnungagap once existed. In addition, the \"Prose Edda\" relates that the water of the well contains much wisdom, and that Odin sacrificed one of his eyes to the well in exchange for a drink.\n\nIn the \"Poetic Edda\" poem \"Völuspá\", a völva recounts to Odin that she knows that Odin once placed one of his eyes in Mímisbrunnr as a pledge, and that Mímir drinks from the well every morning:\n\nThe above stanza is absent from the \"Hauksbók\" manuscript version of the poem. Elsewhere in the poem, the völva mentions a scenario involving the hearing or horn (depending on translation of the Old Norse noun \"hljóð\"—bolded for the purpose of illustration) of the god Heimdallr:\n\nScholar Paul Schach comments that the stanzas in this section of Voluspa are \"all very mysterious and obscure, as it was perhaps meant to be\". Schach details that \"\"Heimdallar hljóð\" has aroused much speculation. Snorri seems to have confused this word with \"gjallarhorn\", but there is otherwise no attestation of the use of \"hljóð\" in the sense of 'horn' in Icelandic. Various scholars have read this as \"hearing\" rather than \"horn\".\n\nScholar Carolyne Larrington comments that if \"hearing\" rather than \"horn\" is understood to appear in this stanza, the stanza indicates that Heimdall, like Odin, has left a body part in the well; his ear. Larrington says that \"Odin exchanged one of his eyes for wisdom from Mimir, guardian of the well, while Heimdall seems to have forfeited his ear.\"\n\nIn chapter 15 of the \"Prose Edda\" book \"Gylfaginning\", the enthroned figure High tells Gangleri (described as king Gylfi in disguise) about Yggdrasil. High details that Yggdrasil has three roots. One of these roots reaches to where the primordial space of Ginnungagap once existed and where now the frost jötnar live. High explains that, beneath this root is Mímisbrunnr and that the well contains \"wisdom and intelligence\" and \"the master of the well is called Mimir. He is full of learning because he drinks of the well from the horn Giallarhorn. All-father went there and asked for a single drink from the well, but he did not get one until he placed his eye as a pledge.\" After his explanation, High quotes the stanza involving Odin and the well from \"Völuspá\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24020993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24020993", "title": "Naometria", "text": "Naometria\n\nNaometria (\"temple measurement\") is a book of prophecies attributed to Simon Studion and published in 1604. Its two thousand pages cover predictions based on numerology that include destruction of the Papacy. It was dedicated to Frederick I, Duke of Württemberg.\n\nIts appearance in Tübingen drew enough interest that a \"Society Naometrica\" was formed, which included Bible and cabala scholar Tobias Hess and Lutheran theologian Johann Valentin Andreä.\n\nIt is addressed in the 1983 volume of \"Hermetic Journal\".\n\n"}
{"id": "32442282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32442282", "title": "Nattukottai Nagarathar", "text": "Nattukottai Nagarathar\n\nThe Nattukottai Nagarathars (also known as Nattukottai Chettiar) is a community within the Chettiar caste of Tamil Nadu, India.\n\nThe traditional base of the Nattukottai Nagarathars is the Chettinad region of the present-day state of Tamil Nadu. It comprises a triangular area around north-east Sivagangai, north-west Ramnad and south Pudukkottai. There are various claims regarding how they arrived in that area.\n\nIt is possible that the community had been involved in trade since the 8th century CE and certainly by the early 17th century they were established salt merchants. Later, in the 19th century, their trading activities had expanded into southeast Asia.\n\nIt is found that Kannagi and Kovalan, the prime personalities of the epic \"Silappatikaram\" were born in Nagarathar community. The religious figures Karaikkal Ammaiyar and Pattinathar were also from the community.\n\nThe nine temples connected with the Nagarathar community include: Ilayathakudi, Iluppaikkudi, Iraniyur, Mathur, Nemam, Pillayarpatti, Soorakudi, Vairavan, and Velangudi.\n\nThe temple at the foot of the Palani hill is called Thiru Avinankudi (Kulandai Velayudhaswami Thirukkoil). It was renovated between 1898 and 1910, with a rajagopuram that can be seen from the hill temple being added in 1968.\n\nVelir\n\n"}
{"id": "559043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=559043", "title": "Outline of Sikhism", "text": "Outline of Sikhism\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Sikhism:\n\nSikhism – monotheistic religion founded in the fifteenth century upon the teachings of Guru Nanak and ten succeeding Gurus (the last one being the sacred text \"Guru Granth Sahib\"), emphasizing universal, selfless love and brotherhood. \"Only those who selflessly love everyone, they alone shall find God\". Guru Granth Sahib teaches the humans how to unite with the all cosmic soul, with the creator. It is the fifth-largest organized religion in the world and one of the fastest-growing.\n\n\nSikh philosophy\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGurdwara\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Khanda is the symbol of Sikhism.\n\nBaptised or \"Khalsa\" Sikhs wear the Five Ks:\n\nHistory of Sikhism\n\n\n\n\nAccording to the traditional historical Sikh sources Guru Nanak Dev appeared on earth in the month of Katak Oct/November 1469 which is celebrated every year in the month of October/November.\nThe SGPC which was found in 1925, they state the avtar date as of 15 April 1469 – 22 September 1539) – founder of the Sikh faith and the first of the ten Sikh Gurus. The Sikhs believe that all subsequent Gurus possessed Guru Nanak’s divinity and the one spirit of Akaal Purakh Waheguru.\n\n\n\n\n\ntruth, knowledge and awareness.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1144146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1144146", "title": "Pattani Kingdom", "text": "Pattani Kingdom\n\nPattani (Patani) or the Sultanate of Patani was a Malay sultanate in the historical Patani Region. It covered approximately the area of the modern Thai provinces of Pattani, Yala, Narathiwat and much of the northern part of modern Malaysia. The 6–7th century Hindu state of Pan Pan may or may not have been related.\n\nLangkasuka was a Hindu-Buddhist kingdom, founded in the region as early as the 2nd century CE, which appeared in many accounts by Chinese travellers, the most famous of whom was the Buddhist pilgrim I-Ching. The kingdom drew trade from Chinese, Indian, and local traders as a stopping place for ships bound for, or just arrived from, the Gulf of Thailand. Langkasuka reached its greatest economic success in the 6th and 7th centuries and afterward declined as a major trade center. Political circumstances suggest that by the 11th century Chola invasion, Langkasuka was no longer a major port visited by merchants. However, much of the decline may be due to the silting up of its harbour, shown most poignantly today because the most substantial Langkasukan ruins lie approximately 15 kilometres from the sea.\n\nPatani became part of the Hindu-Buddhist Empire of Srivijaya, a maritime confederation based in Palembang. Srivijaya dominated trade in the South China Sea and exacted tolls on all traffic through the Straits of Malacca. Malay culture had substantial influence on the Khmer Empire, and the ancient city of Nakhon Pathom.\n\nThe founding of the Islamic kingdom of Patani is thought to have been around the mid-13th century CE, with folklore suggesting it was named after an exclamation made by Sultan Ismail Shah, \"Pantai ini!\" (pronounced as \"pata ni!\", 'this beach' in the local Malay language). However, some think it was the same country known to the Chinese as Pan Pan. \n\nAn alternative theory is that the Patani kingdom was founded in the 14th century. Local stories tell of a fisherman named Pak Tani (Father of Tani), who was sent by a king from the interior to survey the coast, to find a place for an appropriate settlement. After he established a successful fishing outpost, other people moved to join him. The town soon grew into a prosperous trading center that continued to bear his name. The authors of the 17th–18th century Hikayat Patani chronicle claim this story is untrue, and support the claim that the kingdom was founded by the Sultan.\n\nThe Patani kingdom's golden age was during the reign of its four successive queens from 1584, known as Ratu Hijau (The Green Queen), Ratu Biru (The Blue Queen), Ratu Ungu (The Purple Queen) and Ratu Kuning (The Yellow Queen), during which the kingdom's economic and military strength was greatly increased to the point that it was able to fight off four major Siamese invasions, with the help of the eastern Malay kingdom of Pahang and the southern Malay Sultanate of Johor.\n\nIn the 14th century CE, King Ram Khamhaeng the Great (c.1239 – 1317) of Sukhothai (also known as Pho Khun Ramkhamhaeng, ), occupied Nakhon Si Thammarat and its vassal states – including Patani.\n\nThe Thai Ayutthaya kingdom conquered the isthmus during the 14th century CE, bringing it into a single unified state, with Ayutthaya as a capital, and many smaller vassal states under its control. This consisted of a self-governing system in which the vassal states and tributary provinces owed allegiance to the king of Ayutthaya, but otherwise ran their own affairs.\n\nA sheikh named Sa'id or Shafi'uddin from Kampong Pasai (presumably a small community of traders from Pasai who lived on the outskirts of Patani reportedly healed the king of a rare skin disease and after much negotiation (and recurrence of the disease), the king agreed to convert to Islam, adopting the name Sultan Ismail Shah. All of the sultan's officials also agreed to convert. However, there is fragmentary evidence that some local people had begun to convert to Islam prior to this. The existence of a diasporic Pasai community near Patani shows the locals had regular contact with Muslims. There are also travel reports, such as that of Ibn Battuta, and early Portuguese accounts that claimed Patani had an established Muslim community even before Melaka (which officially converted in 1413), which would suggest that merchants who had contact with other emerging Muslims centres were the first to convert to the region.\n\nDuring much of the 15th century Ayutthaya's energies were directed toward the Malay Peninsula, especially the trading port of Malacca, which fell under the rule of the Malacca Sultanate. Ayutthaya's sovereignty extended over Malacca and the Malay states south of Tambralinga (Nakorn Sri Thammarat). Ayutthaya helped develop and stabilise the region, opening the way for lucrative trade on the isthmus. This attracted Chinese merchants seeking speciality goods for the Chinese market.\n\nThe 16th century witnessed the rise of Burma, which under an aggressive dynasty had overrun Chiang Mai and Laos and made war on Ayutthaya. A second siege (1563–64) led by King Bayinnaung forced King Maha Chakkraphat to surrender in 1564. The royal family was taken to Bago, Burma, with the king's second son Mahinthrathirat installed as the vassal king. With the brief decline of Ayutthaya's hegemony in this period, Patani may have become independent temporarily.\n\nKing Dhammaraja (reigned 1569–90) was a Siamese noble of the Sukhothai dynasty, and was formerly the King of Phitsanulok - an important city of the Ayutthaya Kingdom. Dhammaraja became the King of Ayutthaya by aiding the Burmese King in the siege of Ayutthaya in 1568. After, taking over Ayutthaya, Bayinnaung installed Dhammara as a vassal king. After Bayinnaung's death in 1581, uparaja Naresuan proclaimed Ayutthaya's independence in 1584. The Thai fought off repeated Burmese invasions (1584–1593). Thai independence was later restored by Dhammaraja son, King Naresuan the Great (reigned 1590–1605), who rebelled against the Burmese and by 1593 had driven them from the kingdom. The Burmese–Siamese War (1594–1605) was a Thai attack on Burma, resulting in the capture of the Tanintharyi Region as far as Mottama in 1595 and Lan Na in 1602. Naresuan even invaded mainland Burma as far as Taungoo in 1600, but was driven back.\n\nUnder King Naresuan, Ayutthaya returned to the summit of its power - its territory span over Lan Xang and the Khmer Kingdom. All the polities that broke away from its hegemony during Dhammaraja's reign returned to be under the Siamese control. King Naresuan set about unifying the country's administration directly under the royal court at Ayutthaya. He ended the practice of nominating royal princes to govern Ayutthaya's provinces, instead assigning court officials who were expected to adhere the policies handed by the king. The royal princes were confined to the capital city. Their power struggles continued, but they were at court under the king's watchful eye. Even with King Naresuan's reforms, however, the power of the royal government during the next 150 years should not be overestimated.\n\nChinese merchants, beginning with Zheng He in the period 1406–1433 CE, played a major role in the rise of Patani as a regional trade center. They were joined by others including the Portuguese in 1516, Japanese in 1592, Dutch in 1602, English in 1612, and Malay and Siamese merchants who traded throughout the area. Many Chinese also moved to Patani, perhaps due to the activity of Lin Daoqian. A Dutch report of 1603 by Jacob van Neck estimated that there may be as many Chinese in Patani as there were native Malays, and they were responsible for most of the commercial activity of Patani. The Dutch East India Company (VOC) established warehouses in Patani in 1603, followed by the English East India Company in 1612, both carrying out intense trading. In 1619, John Jourdain, the East India Company's chief factor at Bantam was killed off the coast of Patani by the Dutch.\n\nPatani was seen by European traders as a way to access the Chinese market. After 1620, the Dutch and English both closed their warehouses, but a prosperous trade was continued by the Chinese, Japanese, and Portuguese for most of the 17th century.\n\nFollowing a 1688 invasion by Ayutthaya, political disorder continued for five decades, during which the local rulers were helpless to end the lawlessness in the region. Most foreign merchants abandoned trade with Patani.\n\nIn the mid-17th century \"Ratu Kuning\" (the Yellow Queen) died. She is believed to be the last of four successive female rulers of Patani, which then went through decades of political chaos and conflict, experiencing a gradual decline.\n\nOne hundred years later, Ayutthaya under King Ekatat (Boromaraja V) faced another Burmese invasion. This culminated in the capture and destruction of the city of Ayutthaya in 1767, as well as the death of the king. Siam was shattered, and as rivals fought for the vacant throne, Patani declared its complete independence.\n\nKing Taksin finally defeated the Burmese and reunified the country, opening the way for the establishment of the Chakri dynasty by his successor, King Rama I. In 1785, a resurgent Siam sent an army led by Prince Surasi (Viceroy Boworn Maha Surasinghanat), younger brother of King Rama I, to seek the submission of Patani.\n\nPatani was easily defeated by Siam in 1785 and resumed its tributary status. However, a series of attempted rebellions prompted Bangkok to divide Patani into seven smaller puppet kingdoms in the early 1800s during the reign of King Rama II. Britain recognised the Thai ownership of Patani by the Burney Treaty.\n\nInland Dynasty (Sri Wangsa)\n\nFirst Kelantanese Dynasty\n\nSecond Kelantanese Dynasty\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27755955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27755955", "title": "Piltzintecuhtli", "text": "Piltzintecuhtli\n\nIn Aztec mythology, Piltzintecuhtli was a god of the rising sun, healing, and visions, associated with Tōnatiuh. The name means \"the Young Prince\". It may have been another name for Tōnatiuh, but he is also mentioned as a possibly unique individual, the husband of Xōchiquetzal. He was the lord of the third hour of the night. Piltzintecuhtli was said to be the son of Oxomoco and Cipactonal (the first man and woman that were created) and was seen as a protector of children. He was identified as the Youthful Sun.\n\nKnown also as \"7 Flower,\" he was also a god of hallucinatory plants, including mushrooms.\n\nHe was considered the father of Centeōtl, a deity who was sacrificed in order to bring forth plants.\n\n"}
{"id": "1067300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1067300", "title": "Pinaka (Hinduism)", "text": "Pinaka (Hinduism)\n\nShiva Dhanush () or Pinaka (, pínāka) is the bow of Lord Shiva.\n\nPinaka is the original bow of Shiva used for total destruction or \"Pralaya\". As per original Valmiki Ramayana, two bows were created by God Devendra of equal capacity which were given to Rudra and Vishnu and requested them to fight with each other to know who is the powerful one. However just before the start of the war an Aakashvani said that the war will lead to total destruction and hence the war was stopped. On hearing Aakashvani, Rudra threw his Dhanush which fell on earth to be later known as \"Shiva dhanush\". It was later found by King Devaratha, the ancestor of King Janaka. It is mentioned in the Hindu epic \"Ramayana\", when its hero Rama (another avatar of Vishnu) breaks it to win Janaka's daughter as his wife.\n\nVishwakarma crafted two divine bows. He gave Sharanga to Lord Vishnu and Pinaka to Lord Shiva. King Janaka of Mithila had a daughter named Sita. In earlier part of her life, Sita while playing with her sisters had unknowingly lifted the table over which the bow had been placed; which was something no one in the kingdom could do. This incident was however observed by Janaka and he decided to make this incident as the backdrop for Sita's swayamvara.\n\nLater, Janaka had announced that whosoever wanted to marry Sita had to lift the divine bow and string it. The bow was broken by Ayodhya's prince Rama when he attempted to string the bow, during the swayamvara of Sita, thereby winning the princess's hand in marriage. After the marriage when his father Dasharatha was returning to Ayodhya with Rama, Parashurama obstructed their path and challenged Rama for breaking his guru Shiva's bow. Rama extolled the sage. After that Dasharatha prayed to the sage to forgive him but Parashurama remained enraged and brought out Vishnu's bow. He then asked Rama to string the bow and fight a duel with him. Rama snatches the bow of Vishnu, strings it, places an arrow and points it straight at the challenger's heart. Rama then asks Parashurama what he will give as a target to the arrow. At this point, Parashurama feels himself devoid of his mystical energy. He realizes that Rama is the avatar of Vishnu.\n\nAnother tale of Pinaka revolves around the tale of Lord Vishnu fighting Lord Shiva, mentioned in Seventy fifthe sarga of Bala kanda of Ramayana. Parashuram narrates this to Lord Rama before challenging him to string Sharanga. The story goes like this-The Devas wanted to test \"the superiority of Lord Vishnu and Lord Shiva and asked Lord Brahma to create a difference of opinion between them. In the battle that ensued, Lord Vishnu utters a battle cry \"hum\" which paralyzes the Devas and Lord Shiva. His bow is rendered useless, and Lord Vishnu's bow Sharanga prevails. This Pinaka was broken later by Lord Rama, who also snatches Sharanga from Parashurama and gives it to Varuna, lord of the oceans, for safekeeping.\n\nAlthough reference is still to be inserted from Puranas (ancient Hindu texts) there is some connection of Pinaka with the life of Maharshi Dadhichi a sage who helped devas to defeat the asura Vritra and later on request gave up life and provided his bones for making a Vajra which Indra used to kill the Demon Vritrasura.\n"}
{"id": "2870977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2870977", "title": "Provost (religion)", "text": "Provost (religion)\n\nA provost is a senior official in a number of Christian churches.\n\nThe word \"praepositus\" (Latin: \"set over\", from \"praeponere\", \"to place in front\") was originally applied to any ecclesiastical ruler or dignitary. It was soon more specifically applied to the immediate subordinate to the abbot of a monastery, or to the superior of a single cell, and it was defined as such in the Rule of St Benedict. The dean (\"decanus\") was a similarly ranked official. Chrodegang of Metz adopted this usage from the Benedictines when he introduced the monastic organization of canon-law colleges, especially cathedral capitular colleges. The provostship (\"praepositura\") was normally held by the archdeacon, while the office of dean was held by the archpriest. In many colleges, the temporal duties of the archdeacons made it impossible for them to fulfil those of the provostship, and the headship of the chapter thus fell to the dean.\n\nThe title became \"prevost\" in Old French, before being adopted as \"provost\" in English. \"Prévôt\" is the equivalent in modern French.\n\nIn the Nordic countries, a provost (Danish and older Norwegian \"provst\", modern Norwegian \"prost\", Swedish \"prost\" (under the current system \"kontraktsprost\"), Icelandic \"prófastur\" (from the Old English \"prōfast\")) is the leader of a \"provsti\" (or \"prosti\", Ice. \"prófastsdæmi\", Swe. \"kontrakt\"), an administrative territorial unit within the Lutheran national churches which comprises several parishes (\"sogn\", Ice. \"sókn\", Swe. \"församling\" (previously \"socken\")). The provost is the immediate superior of the ‘parish priest’ (\"sognepræst\" or \"sogneprest\", Ice. \"sóknarprestur\", Swe. \"församlingspräst\") but is normally also a parish priest in one of the local parishes. Several \"provstier\" form a Diocese (\"stift\" (all languages) or \"bispedømme\", Ice. \"biskupsdæmi\", Swe. \"biskopsdöme\").\n\nWhile the modern spelling is \"\"Propst\",\" in an historical context the spelling \"Probst\" may also occur. Historically, the title is also found among Military chaplains, both Roman Catholic and Protestant (\"e.g., Feldpropst\" in Prussia).\n\nIn England, the title of provost in cathedrals was almost completely replaced by that of dean, although sometimes when a bishop nominated himself as dean of his own cathedral, a provost was appointed as his deputy.\n\nIn cathedrals which were also parish churches, however, especially the newly created cathedrals of the 19th and 20th centuries, the senior priest (who was also the parish priest) continued to be known as the provost. This title was used by the head priests of Birmingham Cathedral, Blackburn Cathedral, Bradford Cathedral, Chelmsford Cathedral, Coventry Cathedral, Derby Cathedral, Leicester Cathedral, Newcastle Cathedral, Portsmouth Cathedral, St. Edmundsbury Cathedral, Sheffield Cathedral, Southwark Cathedral, Southwell Minster, and Wakefield Cathedral, but all were redesignated deans in 2000.\n\nIn the Scottish Episcopal Church this tradition continues. The leading priests of the cathedrals, with the exception of the Cathedral of the Isles on Cumbrae, are called provost.\n\nThe usage is preserved in the title of the heads of some colleges in England formerly administered by the Church.\n\nIn Germany, the heads of certain chapters under the Catholic church are still known as \"Probst\" or \"Propst\".\n\n\"Propstei\" or \"Propstei(pfarr)gemeinde\" is the honorary designation for some important, old Roman Catholic churches in Germany; most honorary titles date back to the 20th century. The provosts (see \"Propst\" in German), being ordinary parish priests, have the privilege of wearing a prelate's dress (black-purple) and using a pectoral cross hung by a ribbon.\n\nIn Polish, \"proboszcz\" simply means \"parish priest\" (\"pastor\" in the US usage), which is the chief priest in a parish, the Catholic counterpart of Anglican vicar or rector.\n\nThe office of provost in the Roman Catholic Church, particularly when applied to the monastic role, falls under the category of prelate, with a rank equivalent to that of a bishop. In a society of apostolic life such as an Oratory of St Philip Neri, the provost is the major religious superior of his particular oratory. It is customary among Oratorians to call the provost \"THE father\" as he is \"primus inter pares\", and a father in the place of the founder, St Philip Neri.\n\nAfter the Protestant Reformation, usually following pre-Reformation traditional usage, and in connexion with certain churches, some Protestant pastors bore the title of provost. In these cases it was merely an honorific rank, without any special place in the church hierarchy. Such usage occurred, for example, in the Evangelical Church of the old-Prussian Union and its successor Evangelical Church in Berlin-Brandenburg.\n\nIn certain Landeskirchen within the Evangelical Church in Germany, the title is still used for a pastor officiating as chairperson in a provostry (e.g. in the Lutheran Evangelical Lutheran State Church in Brunswick, Evangelical Lutheran State Church of Mecklenburg and in the united Evangelical Church in Hesse and Nassau, and the Evangelical Church of the Church Province of Saxony). In the above-mentioned Lutheran churches, a provostry is equal to a deanery, and, in the two united churches, it is a unit comprising several deaneries.\n\nMoreover, in the united Evangelical Church of Berlin-Brandenburg-Silesian Upper Lusatia, the provost is the theological leader of the consistory.\n\nThe heads of Augustinian and Dominican friaries are termed \"provost or prior\" (\"praepositus vel prior\"), and those of Cistercian monasteries \"provost or warden\" (\"praepositus vel custos\"). The superiors of the Oratory are also known as provosts, as noted above.\n\nIn some religious orders, especially those under the patronage of royalty or nobility, the ecclesial management of the Order is placed under the jurisdiction of a provost.\n\n"}
{"id": "40026079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40026079", "title": "Pānquetzaliztli", "text": "Pānquetzaliztli\n\nThe correlation of Rafael Tena places the 20-day month last from November 30 to December 19.\n"}
{"id": "4297324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4297324", "title": "Religion in Pakistan", "text": "Religion in Pakistan\n\nThe state religion in Pakistan is Islam, which is practiced by 96% of the population. Freedom of religion is guaranteed by the Pakistan constitution. The Pakistani constitution established a fundamental right in which all Pakistani citizens irrespective of Religions have equal rights. The remaining 4% practice Hinduism, Christianity, Sikhism and other religions.\n\nMuslims are divided into the following sects: the majority of them practice Sunni Islam, while 5–20% are Shias. Nearly all Pakistani Sunni Muslims belong to the Hanafi Fiqh Islamic law school. The majority of Pakistani Shia Muslims belong to the Ithnā‘Ashariyyah Islamic law school, with significant minority groups who practice Ismailism, which is composed of Nizari (Aga Khanis), Mustaali, Dawoodi Bohra, Sulaymani, and others.\n\nThe constitution of Pakistan establishes Islam as the state religion, and provides all its citizens the right to profess, practice and propagate their religion subject to law, public order, and morality. The Constitution also states that all laws are to conform with the injunctions of Islam as laid down in the Quran and Sunnah. The constitution limits the political rights of Pakistan's non-Muslims, and only Muslims are allowed to become the President or the Prime Minister. Moreover, only Muslims are allowed to serve as judges in the Federal Shariat Court, which has the power to strike down any law deemed un-Islamic, though its judgments can be overruled by the Supreme Court of Pakistan.\n\nBased on information collected from the Library of Congress, Pew Research Center, CIA World Factbook, Oxford University, University of Pennsylvania, U.S. State Department and others, the following is a list of estimations about the percentage of people professing different faiths in the country. These estimations vary considerably from source to source, depending on methods of research and databases that were used.\n\n\n\nAs of 2012, around 5,900,000 Pakistanis of non-Muslim faiths were holding the Computerised National Identity Card (CNIC cards) from National Database and Registration Authority (NADRA), which can only be obtained by citizens over 18 years of age. It is estimated that some 96% adult Pakistanis currently hold CNIC cards, and therefore the total adult population of non-Muslim religions seems to be over 3 million. Of the minority CNIC holders, 1,414,527 were Hindus (769,647 males and 644,880 females), 1,270,051 were Christians (731,713 males and 538,338 females), 125,681 were Ahmadi Muslims (63,479 males and 62,202 females), 33,734 were Bahais, 6,146 were Sikhs, 4,020 were Parsis, 1,492 were Buddhist and 66,898 were others (such as Kalasha Animists). NADRA has made it near impossible to declare and change the religion to anything from Islam therefore the statistics must be looked at with a pinch of salt.\n\nIslam is the state religion of Pakistan, and about 95-98% of Pakistanis are Muslim. Pakistan has the second largest number of Muslims in the world after Indonesia. The majority are Sunni (estimated at 75-95%), with an estimated 5-20% Shia. A PEW survey in 2012 found that 6% of Pakistani Muslims were Shia. There are a number of Islamic law schools called \"Madhab\" (schools of jurisprudence), which are called fiqh or 'Maktab-e-Fikr' in Urdu. Nearly all Pakistani Sunni Muslims belong to the Hanafi Islamic school of thought, while a small number belong to the Hanbali school. The majority of Pakistani Shia Muslims belong to the Twelver (Ithna Asharia) branch, with significant minority who adhere to Ismailism branch that is composed of Nizari (Aga Khanis), Mustaali, Dawoodi Bohra, Sulaymani, and others. Sufis and above mentioned Sunni and Shia sects are considered to be Muslims according to the Constitution of Pakistan. Shias allege discrimination by the Pakistani government since 1948, claiming that Sunnis are given preference in business, official positions and administration of justice.\n\nIslam to some extent syncretized with pre-Islamic influences, resulting in a religion with some traditions distinct from those of the Arab world. Two Sufis whose shrines receive much national attention are Ali Hajweri in Lahore (ca. 11th century) and Shahbaz Qalander in Sehwan, Sindh (ca. 12th century). Sufism, Fariduddin Ganjshakar in pakpatan a mystical Islamic tradition, has a long history and a large popular following in Pakistan. Popular Sufi culture is centered on Thursday night gatherings at shrines and annual festivals which feature Sufi music and dance. Contemporary Islamic fundamentalists criticize its popular character, which in their view, does not accurately reflect the teachings and practice of the Prophet and his companions. There have been terrorist attacks directed at Sufi shrines and festivals, 5 in 2010 that killed 64 people.\n\nHinduism is the second largest religion in Pakistan after Islam, according to the 1998 Census. , Pakistan had the fifth largest Hindu population in the world and PEW predicts that by 2050 Pakistan will have the fourth largest Hindu population in the world. In the 1998 Census the Hindu (jati) population was found to be 2,111,271 while the Hindu (scheduled castes) numbered an additional 332,343. Data on religion from the 2017 Census has not been released (2018). Hindus are found in all provinces of Pakistan but are mostly concentrated in Sindh. According to the last census held in 1998, 93% of Hindus live in Sindh, 5% in Punjab and nearly 2% in Balochistan. They speak a variety of languages such as Sindhi, Seraiki, Aer, Dhatki, Gera, Goaria, Gurgula, Jandavra, Kabutra, Koli, Loarki, Marwari, Sansi, Vaghri and Gujarati.\n\nThe Rig Veda, the oldest Hindu text, was believed to have been composed in the Punjab province of modern-day Pakistan on the banks of the Indus River around 1500 BCE and spread from there across South and South East Asia slowly developing and evolving into the various forms of the faith we see today.\n\nChristians () make up 1.6% of Pakistan's population, about 2.8 million people out of the total population. The majority of the Pakistani Christian communities is constituted by converts from Punjab region, from the British colonial era. The community is geographically spread throughout the Punjab province, whilst its presence in the rest of the provinces is mostly confined to the urban centers. There is a Roman Catholic community in Karachi which was established by Goan and Tamil migrants when Karachi's infrastructure was being developed by the British during colonial administration between World War I and World War II.\n\nA few Protestant groups conduct missions in Pakistan. The Day by Day Christian Ministries based in the Philippines operates a school in Karachi.\n\nAccording to the last Census in Pakistan, Ahmadi made up 0.22% of the population; however, the Ahmadiyya community boycotted the census. Independent groups generally estimate the population to be somewhere between two and five million Ahmadis. In media reports, four million is the most commonly cited figure.\n\nIn 1974, the government of Pakistan amended the Constitution of Pakistan to define a Muslim according to Qu'ran 33:40, as a person who believes in finality of Prophet Muhammad. Ahmadis believe in Muhammad as the best and the last law bearing prophet and Mirza Ghulam Ahmad as the Messiah of Muslims. Consequently, Ahmadis were declared non-Muslims by a parliamentary tribunal.\n\nThe Bahá'í Faith in Pakistan begins previous to its independence when it was still under British colonial rule. The roots of the religion in the region go back to the first days of the Bábí religion in 1844, with Shaykh Sa'id Hindi who was from Multan. During Bahá'u'lláh's lifetime, as founder of the religion, he encouraged some of his followers to move to the area that is current-day Pakistan.\n\nThe Bahá'ís in Pakistan have the right to hold public meetings, establish academic centers, teach their faith, and elect their administrative councils. However, the government prohibits Bahá'ís, as well as every other citizen, from travelling to Israel for Bahá'í pilgrimage. Recent estimates say that there are over 79,000 though Bahá'ís claimed less than half that number.\n\nIn the 15th century the reformist Sikh movement originated in Pakistan's Punjab region where Sikhism's founder as well as most of the faiths disciples originated from. There are a number of Sikhs living throughout Pakistan today; estimates vary, but the number is thought to be on the order of 20,000. In recent years, their numbers have increased with many Sikhs migrating from neighboring Afghanistan who have joined their co-religionists in Pakistan. The shrine of Guru Nanak Dev is located in Nankana Sahib near the city of Lahore where many Sikhs from all over the world make pilgrimage to this and other shrines.\n\nThere are at least 4,000 Pakistani citizen practicing the Zoroastrian religion. With the flight of Zoroastrians from Greater Iran into the Subcontinent, the Parsi communities were established. More recently, from the 15th century onwards, Zorastrians came to settle the coast of Sindh and have established thriving communities and commercial enterprises. These newer migrants were to be called Parsi. At the time of independence of Pakistan in 1947, Karachi and Lahore were home to a thriving Parsi business community. Karachi had the most prominent population of Parsis in Pakistan. After independence, many migrated abroad but a number remained. Parsis have entered Pakistani public life as social workers, business folk, journalists and diplomats. The most prominent Parsis of Pakistan today include Ardeshir Cowasjee, Byram Dinshawji Avari, Jamsheed Marker, as well as Minocher Bhandara. The founding father of Pakistan, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, married Ratti Bai who belonged to a Parsi family before her conversion to Islam.\n\nThis is pagan religion of the Kalash people living in a remote part of Chitral. Adherents of the Kalash religion number around 3,000 and inhabit three remote valleys in Chitral; Bumboret, Rumbur and Birir. Their religion is unique but shares some common ground with Greek, Macedonian Pagan, Vedic and Pre-Zoroastrian religions.\n\nJainism existed in Sindh, Punjab, Balochistan and Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, before the partition in 1947, and even for several years after the partition. There is no evidence of any Jains living in Pakistan today, although it is claimed that a few still live in Sindh and Punjab provinces. They are number of disused Jain Temples found in different parts of Pakistan. Gulu Lalvani, a famous Jain, was originally from Pakistan but he, like other Jains, emigrated from Pakistan. Baba Dharam Das Tomb is also found in Pakistan. The Jain temple at Gori in Tharparkar was a major Jain pilgrimage center. The Jain Mandir Chowk at Lahore was the site of a Digambar Jain Temple. The memorial of Jain seer Vijayanandsuri at Gujranwala is now a police station.\n\nBuddhism has an ancient history in Pakistan; currently there is a small community of at least 1500 Pakistani Buddhist in the country. The country is dotted with numerous ancient and disused Buddhist stupas along the entire breath of the Indus River that courses through the heart of the country. Many Buddhist empires and city states existed, notably in Gandhara but also elsewhere in Taxila, Punjab and Sindh.\n\nVarious estimates suggest that there were about 1,500 Jews living in Pakistan at the time of its independence on 14 August 1947, with the majority living in Karachi and a few living in Peshawar. However, almost all emigrated to Israel after 1948. There are a few disused synagogues in both cities; while one Karachi synagogue was torn down for the construction of a shopping mall. The one in Peshawar still exists, although the building is not being used for any religious purpose. There is a small Jewish community of Pakistani origin settled in Ramla, Israel.\n\nOne Pakistani, Faisal Khalid (AKA Fishel Benkhald) of Karachi claims to be Pakistan's only Jew. He falsely claimed that his mother is Jewish (making him Jewish by Jewish custom) but, because his father is a Muslim, Pakistani authorities refuse to recognize him as Jewish. \n\nThere are people who do not profess any faith (such as atheists and agnostics) in Pakistan, but their numbers are not known. They are particularly in the affluent areas of the larger cities. Some were born in secular families while others in religious ones. According to the 1998 census, people who did not state their religion accounted for 0.5% of the population, but social pressure against claiming no religion was strong. A 2012 study by Gallup Pakistan found that people not adhering to any religion account for 1% of the population.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "27540993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27540993", "title": "Secularism in Israel", "text": "Secularism in Israel\n\nSecularism in Israel shows how matters of religion and how matters of state are related within Israel. Secularism is defined as an indifference to, rejection or exclusion of religion and religious consideration. In Israel this applies to the entirely secular community that identifies with no religion and the secular community within the Jewish community which identifies with no particular division of the religion. When Israel was established as a new state in 1948, a new and different Jewish identity formed for the newly created Israeli population. This population was defined by the Israeli culture and Hebrew language, their experience with the Holocaust, and the need to band together against conflict with hostile neighbors in the Middle East. This is not an identity with which Jews outside of Israel can easily identify.\n\nSince 1922 many official documents originating in the land of Israel gave rise to religious freedom and secularism. In 1922 the Palestinian Mandate prohibited discrimination based on religious affiliation. In 1948, at the establishment of the state of Israel, the Declaration of Independence again protects freedom of religion. The Declaration of Establishment of the State of Israel was approved by members of the Jewish community of Palestine and the Zionist movement. The documents first section sheds light on the relationship between the Jewish people and the Land of Israel. It reads “the Land of Israel,[ Palestine] was the birthplace of the Jewish people. Here their spiritual, religious and political identity was shaped.” The history of the Jews establishing the State of Israel is long. The right of the Jewish people to settle in the land was recognized in the Balfour Declaration of 1917. The United Nations General Assembly passed the resolution that called for a Jewish state to be established in Eretz-Israel on November 29, 1947.\n\nWhen the idea of political Zionism was introduced by Theodor Herzl, his idea was that Israel would be a secular state which would not be influenced at all by religion. When David Ben-Gurion founded the state of Israel he put religious leaders at the head of the government next to secular Jews in the government. Many westernized Israelis feel constrained by the strict religious sanctions imposed on them. Many businesses close on Shabbat, including EL AL, Israel’s leading airline, many forms of public transportation, and restaurants.\n\nIn order to be formally married in Israel, a Jewish couple has to be married by a rabbi. This also applies when and if a couple would like to divorce, they must seek out rabbinical council. Since many secular Israelis find this absurd they often go abroad to be married, often in Cyprus. Marriages officiated abroad are recognized as official marriages in Israel.\nAlso, all food at army bases and in cafeterias of government buildings has to be Kosher even though the majority of Israelis do not follow these dietary laws.\n\nMany religious symbols have found their way into Israeli national symbols. For example, the flag of the country is similar to a tallit, or prayer shawl, with its blue stripes. The national coat of arms displays the menorah. The Israeli national anthem includes a few references of religion. “As long as the Jewish spirit is yearning” and “the two-thousand-year-old hope” are both lines in the anthem, \"HaTikvah\" (“The Hope”).\n\nIn Israel certain cities and regions are known for their more secular or religious qualities. Tel Aviv, the port city, for example, is a direct example of a secular city. It is very cosmopolitan with modern hotels, boutiques, coffee shops, and loud music on Friday night. Non-Jews and secular Jews alike feel very comfortable in this city because of the lack of religious bearing. Tel Aviv is a modern city similar to a coastal city in the United States like Miami. Tel Aviv is even considered one of the top party cities in the world. It is typical to find bars and night clubs open until dawn, even on Shabbat.\n\nThe Jewish population of Israel, can be divided, albeit imperfectly, into three groups: Orthodox, Traditional, and Secular. The largest group is the Secular Jews making up 41.4% of the Jewish population, followed by the Traditional Jews accounting for 38.5% of the population, with the remaining 20% populated by the orthodox and ultra-orthodox. In Israel, the Reform and Conservative movements are estimated to make up 7.6% of the Jewish population, a significantly lower rate compared to the Jewish diaspora.\n\nSecular Jews in Israel identify as being Jewish because they serve in the Israel Defense Forces (army), they celebrate Jewish holidays (usually not in strict conformity with Jewish Law), and speak Hebrew. This part of the population makes up 41.4% of the Jewish population. Secular Jews are largely supporters of the Israeli Labor Party and a Secular Zionist state. Many secular Israelis identify as Jewish, but the religion is only one aspect of their identity. Even many secular Jews practice certain aspects of the religion, such as having a Passover Seder or fasting during Yom Kippur. It would not be uncommon to see a secular family to light Shabbat candles, say the blessings over food and wine, have a Shabbat dinner together and then for the parents to get into their car and drive their children to the movies.\n\nMasorti/Traditional Jews make up 30.5% of the Jewish population in Israel. This is the second largest group. Many of these \"traditional Jews\" differ from the Orthodox only because they will drive their cars on the Sabbath, use electricity, watch television, or go to a soccer game or the beach, frequently after attending religious services in the morning and the evening before. Many of the men wrap tefillin every morning, others cover the spectrum of observance. What is critical is that all are committed to a major religious component in the definition of their Jewishness and the Jewishness of the Jewish state. Traditional Jews make up most of the Likud political party.\n\n27.9% of the Jewish population identifies as Orthodox (\"dati\") or ultra-Orthodox. Most of the Orthodox and some ultra-Orthodox, believe that secular Zionist nationalism and Judaism can successfully work and live together in Israel. Politically they align with National Religious Party, the Morasha Party and by the two state-appointed Chief Rabbis. Orthodox Jews are often seen wearing knitted yarmulkes. The ultra-Orthodox (Charedi) are the smallest part of the population, representing only 12% of Jews living in Israel. The Charedim tend to live in their own communities and live according to Jewish law by following moral and dress codes passed down from ancestors. This part of the population is often seen wearing black hats or yarmulkes and some Hasidic sects are related to Hasidic sects in the United States.\n\nAs of November 2012, secular and Orthodox Jews are competing in a bidding war for apartments in Harish after a court ruled that the Israel Land Administration could not discriminate between them. Elsewhere, officials in Jerusalem City Hall have alleged that the Ministry of Housing worked with ILA to favor housing for Chareidim in the Ramot area of Jerusalem.\n\nThe Association for Civil Rights in Israel has called upon the mayor of Modi'in to revoke a residents-only restriction to Anaba Park during the High Holidays and summer vacation, deeming it a discrimination against Haredim in the neighboring town of Modi'in Illit. The Jewish Telegraphic Agency reports that the municipality of about 80,000 is predominately secular. The regulation was seen as a response to threats from Hareidim to bar secular visitors from a heritage site in Modi'in Illit.\n\nIn 1949 Israel became part of the United Nations. When a state becomes part of the United Nations, the state adopts the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In the Declaration there are many instances that reflect a country’s need for religious freedom. The Preamble of the Declaration states that it is “a common standard of achievement for all peoples and all nations.” In the Declaration both articles 2 and 18 reference freedom of religion. In article 2 it states that everyone is entitled to all the rights without any distinction such as religion. Article 18 states that everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion and has the right to show their religion in teaching, practice, worship and observance.\n\nIn Israel, to be considered legally Jewish by the rabbinate you have to have a Jewish mother. This excludes a large portion of the immigrant population that moved to Israel from the former Soviet Union and many parts of Europe and had previously identified as Jewish even though they did not have a Jewish mother. This part of the population accounts for around 320,000 people who serve in the Israeli Defense Forces and celebrate Jewish holidays.\n\nIsrael legally recognizes thirteen non-Jewish religious communities, each of which practice their own religious family law. The largest religious minority population is the Muslim community of Israel and it amounts to 17.3% of the overall population. The Muslim communities live mostly in the northern part of the country. The Orthodox Jewish and the Muslim population have the highest population growth of all communities in Israel.They are free under the law to vote, practice religion, be members of the Israeli parliament and can use the same Israeli education system as the rest of the country, although the education system is de facto mostly bifurcated into Jewish and non-Jewish schools (see Education in Israel). Many Arabs are a part of the Israeli government and politics. Almost one 10th of the parliament are Arab and there is a mosque in the parliament building (Knesset) for those who are Muslim. A supreme court justice and a minister of the Israeli cabinet are also Arab Muslims. Muslims, as well as other religious minorities, are not required to serve in the army, however.\n\nThe next largest minority population is the Christian population (2%), many of whom live with Jewish communities. Rather than have their own education and medical institutions they have integrated into state institutions. The Christian population in Israel is the only Christian population in the Middle East that has grown in the last half century. Christians choose to live in Israel because they have freedom of speech and the freedom to practice religion.\n"}
{"id": "15629526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15629526", "title": "Sepermeru", "text": "Sepermeru\n\nSepermeru (or Spermeru) was a town in Ancient Egypt, located roughly between Heracleopolis to the north and Oxyrhynchus to the south in what was considered the XIX Upper Egyptian nome.\n\nDuring the Ramesside Period of Pharaohs, Sepermeru enjoyed some prominence as both a largely populated religious, military, and administrative center for the XIX Nome. The latter district was situated near the Bahr Yusuf canal, which connected the Nile with the Fayyum region (cf. S. Katary, Land Tenure in the Ramesside Period, p. 215; O'Connor, Man, Settlement and Urbanism, pp. 690–91). The meaning of the town's name (\"near to the desert\") signifies its status as a frontier community (cf. H. te Velde, Seth: God of Confusion, p. 118, n.2) and was thus a suitable cult center for the god Seth.\n\nAccording to Wilbour Papyrus (cf. Gardiner, Commentary, 28, pp. 127–128), by Dynasty XIX there existed two land-owning temple institutions within the main Seth-enclosure at Sepermeru. The larger of these two institutions was the \"House of Seth, Lord of Sepermeru,\" and the smaller a temple dedicated to his consort, Nephthys, and called the \"House of Nephthys of Ramesses-Meriamun.\" It is not known how long the temple of Seth had been established in Sepermeru before Dynasty XIX, but it is evident that the temple of Nephthys was a specific foundation (or refurbishment) of Ramesses II, which dates this particular institution to that Pharaoh's reign (1279-1213 BCE). \n\nBoth temples (and their respective land-holdings) were apparently under separate administration; the Prophet Huy administered the House of Seth in Dynasty XIX and XX. Yet, as Katary notes, \"What cannot be established from the evidence of P. Wilbour is the authority of any particular prophet of the House of Seth over the House of Nephthys,\" and: \"Although Huy may have been the chief administrator of the House of Nephthys as well as his own temple, he was most certainly not in charge of the administration of the...fields of the House of Nephthys, such fields being the responsibility of two prophets of Nephthys, Merybarse...and Penpmer.\" (Katary, Land Tenure in the Ramesside Period, pp. 219–220).\n\nThere were at least two more subsidiary shrines in Sepermeru in Dynasties XIX and XX: a sanctuary called the \"House of Seth, Powerful-is-His-Mighty-Arm,\" and a cult-place called \"The Sunshade of Re-Horakhte\" (P. Wilbour, A45,11 and S29 and 169). Like the Nephthys temple, these smaller shrines were considered affiliations or dependencies \"within the House\" (or primary temple enclosure) of Seth, who was supreme \"Lord\" of the town.\n\nSepermeru is perhaps of most interest to modern Egyptologists because of its status as one of the chief ancient Egyptian cult centers of Seth, along with the cities of Ombos, Nagada, and Avaris. It is thought that the cult of Seth waned considerably after Dynasty XX, due to the increasing \"demonization\" of this deity and his association with territories and priorities increasingly considered foreign to the general interests of Egypt. Religious and administrative prominence in Nome XIX was duly shifted south to Oxyrhynchus after this time (cf. te Velde, Seth: God of Confusion, p. 139). We know, however, that Seth continued to be the object of veneration in cult centers on the outskirts of Egypt well into Roman times, especially at Deir el-Hagar (Dakhla Oasis), Kellis, Mut, and Kharga (cf. te velde, van Dijk, Essays, p. 236). It may be that Seth's cult survived in some form at Sepermeru, long after Sepermeru's decline as a religious center. Indeed, a late inscription in the Ptolemaic temple of Horus at Edfu makes reference to \"Seth of Sepermeru,\" albeit with an insulting caveat that the god's canals in this district had become \"dried-up and useless\" (cf. P. Wilson, A Ptolemaic Lexikon, p. 827). \n\nThe foundations of both the Seth and Nephthys temples at Sepermeru were excavated and identified in the 1980s (cf. R. Lachaud, Les Deesses, p. 51). Therefore, the site is also of some interest for boasting remnants of the only surviving temple of Nephthys, along with her temple at Komir, near the ancient site of Esna.\n\n(including those noted within the text of this article):\n\n"}
{"id": "10968659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10968659", "title": "Serra Springs (California)", "text": "Serra Springs (California)\n\nSerra Springs are a pair of springs located on the campus of University High School in Los Angeles, California, USA. They are designated by California Historical Landmark #522. The springs, called Kuruvungna by the native Gabrieleno Tongva people, were used as a source of natural fresh water by the Tongva people since at least the 5th century BC and continue to produce 22,000-25,000 gallons of water a day. The springs are also sometimes referred to as the Gabrieleno Tongva Springs, the Tongva Holy Springs, and the Sacred Springs. The springs are found at two separate locations on the high school campus. The larger is now closed off from the rest of the campus and is under the care of the Gabrielino/Tongva Springs Foundation. The other spring is located on the northeastern edge of the so-called Girls' Field. A third spring was located farther north, near Texas Avenue, but it ceased to flow during the 1940s when a local water company began drawing from the aquifer.\n\nThe springs have a UCLA Archaeological designation of CA-LAN-382.\nThe name Kuruvungna, which means \"a place where we are in the sun,\" comes from the name of a village that was located at the site of the springs. The Portolá Expedition of 1769, one of the two expeditions that led to the founding of Los Angeles, camped at that village, while traveling along the route that would become known as El Camino Real. The Tongva gave them watercress, \"pashí\" (chia) and fresh water from the spring.\n\nThe Tongva were described in unpublished diary of Juan Crespí, who traveled with the Portolá Expedition of 1769:\n\n... as we arrived and set up camp, six very friendly, compliant tractable heathens came over, who had their little houses roofed with grass, the first we have been seeing of this sort. Three of them came wearing a great deal of paint; all of them, however unarmed. They brought four or six bowls of usual seeds and good sage which they presented to our captain; on me they bestowed a good sized string of the sort of beads that they all have, made of white sea shells and red ones (though not very bright colored) that look to be coral, though of a very inferior sort.\n\nThe name Serra comes from Junípero Serra the founder of the Alta California mission chain, who is reported to have said mass there.\n\nCrespi renamed the springs \"San Gregorio\" while visiting the Tongva village at the springs with the Portola Expedition in 1769, but the expedition soldiers called them \"El Berrendo\" after wounding a deer there. Later, around the turn of the 19th century, the two springs began to be called \"The Tears of Santa Monica\" because they brought to mind the weeping eyes of the saint as she cried for her erring son. \"Santa Monica\", as an official place name, was first recorded in 1827 on a grazing permit, next in 1828 when the Rancho Boca de Santa Monica was granted to Marques and Reyes.\n\nLater, in 1839, the name was used again for Rancho San Vicente y Santa Monica when it was granted to Sepulveda and Machado. Kuruvungna Springs was included in this rancho, the first time it had been \"owned\" by anyone other than the indigenous inhabitants. Jose Delores Sepulveda, one of the sons of the rancho's owner, lived in the Sepulveda adobe which once stood on the high ground near Bundy Ave and Wilshire Blvd overlooking the Kuruvungna village site and the springs.\n\nThe canyon, the ranchos, the city, the bay, the mountains, the boulevard, the airport and the freeway are all called after a former turn-of-the-19th-century name for Kuruvungna Springs.\n\nIn the 1800s, the spring served as the water supply for the city of Santa Monica.\n\nShortly after the annexation of Sawtelle, construction began at the springs to build Warren G. Harding High School, later renamed University High School. Construction at the school in 1925 unearthed evidence of an Indian village. The springs were landscaped to make them a feature of the campus. The waters of the upper spring were made to cascade down a small waterfall (still extant) and also fill a wishing well (demolished).\n\nThe source of the lower springs was left open, as it still is, so one could see the water bubbling up through the sand. The overflow fills a large pond with a small island before being directed into a storm drain. The pond was surrounded with manicured lawns and served as a gathering place for students and the setting for group graduation photos. However, the springs corner of the campus fell into disrepair in the 1980s and began to be used as a dump. After the Gabrielino Tongva Springs Foundation removed tons of trash from the site in the 1990s, the area around the springs was planted with tule reeds and other native plants.\n\nIn 1975, a grave containing a small skeleton and soapstone bowls was discovered by students and a science teacher from what archaeologists now believe to be a burial site. This grave was dated to approximately 4000 BCE and the character of the bowls suggested kinship with the culture of Santa Catalina Island in the same era.\n\nIn 1980 Indian Springs Continuation High School, which is housed on the part of the campus where the springs are, was opened.\n\nIn 1992, developers proposed an underground parking lot one block north of the springs which would have cut off the spring's water. In response, tribal descendants, community members and teachers and students from the school founded a non-profit foundation, the Gabrielino/Tongva Springs Foundation, and after a two-year fight, the proposed parking structure was voted down.\n\nThe foundation currently leases the site from the Los Angeles Unified School District in order to use the location for their monthly ceremony and guided tours, and received a $7,000 grant from Los Angeles' Environmental Affairs Department to enhance the area with different types of trees, vines and herbs.\n\nIn 1992, the newly established Gabrieleno Springs Foundation held the first annual Life Before Columbus Day event. The event takes place just before Columbus day every year and celebrates the history of the land and of the Tongva people. Previous events have drawn more than 600 people, including Native Americans from various tribes, local politicians, community members and students and faculty from the school. The event includes tours of the Kuruvunga Village site and springs, performances by dancers from the Tongva and Aztec tribe and storytelling from the Chumash tribe. There are also hands-on activities like corn-doll making, rock painting, and tortilla making, offered by authentic Native American vendors.\n\nIn 1998, Governor Wilson signed senate bill SB 1956. The Bill, introduced by Senator Tom Hayden, required the California Department of Parks and Recreation to, \"seek to establish a permanent cultural and ecological site at the\nGabrielino/Tongva Springs\", and called for the creation of a task force created by University\nHigh School's administration, \"in consultation with the Gabrielino/Tongva\nSprings Foundation and the Los Angeles Unified School District\". The bill appropriated $50,000 to the department to be spent on a local assistance grant to the task force, \"to plan for the preservation of\nthe Gabrielino/Tongva Springs, and property adjacent thereto...in order to enhance environmental, cultural, and\neducational opportunities.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1331886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1331886", "title": "Shacharit", "text": "Shacharit\n\nShacharit ( \"šaḥăriṯ\"), or Shacharis in Ashkenazi Hebrew, is the morning Tefillah (prayer) of the Jewish people, one of the three daily prayers.\n\nDifferent traditions identify different primary components of Shacharit. Essentially all agree that Pesukei dezimra, the Shema and its blessings, and the Amidah are major sections. Some identify the preliminary blessings and readings, as a first, distinct section. Others say that Tachanun is a separate section, as well as the concluding blessings. On certain days, there are additional prayers and services added to Shacharit, including Mussaf and a Torah reading.\n\nShacharit according to tradition was identified as a time of prayer by Abraham, as states, \"Abraham arose early in the morning,\" which traditionally is the first Shacharit. However, Abraham's prayer did not become a standardized prayer. The sages of the Great Assembly may have formulated blessings and prayers that later became part of Shacharit. However, the siddur, or prayerbook as we know it, was not fully formed until around the 7th century CE The prayers said still vary among congregations and Jewish communities.\n\nShacharit was also instituted in part as a replacement of the daily morning Temple service after the destruction of the Temple.\n\nShacharit comes from the Hebrew root (\"shakhar\"), meaning dawn.\n\nIn Eastern Yiddish, praying is also identified by the verb \"daven\", which comes from the same Latin root as the English word \"divine.\" \"Davening Shacharit\" is the Yinglish term for doing the service.\n\nDuring or before Shacharit, Jews put on their tefillin and/or tallit, according to their tradition. Both actions are accompanied by blessings. Some do not eat until they have prayed.\n\nTraditionally, a series of introductory prayers are said as the start of Shacharit. The main pieces of these prayers are Pesukei dezimra, consisting of numerous psalms, hymns, and prayers. Pesukei dezimra is said so that an individual will have praised God before making requests, which might be considered rude.\n\nThe Shema and its related blessings are said. One should \"concentrate on fulfilling the positive commandment of reciting the \"Shema\"\" before reciting it. One should be sure to say it clearly and not to slur words together.\n\nShemoneh Esrei (The Amidah), a series of 19 blessings is recited. On Shabbat and Yom Tov, only 7 blessings are said. The blessings cover a variety of issues and ethics such as Jerusalem, crops, and prayer.\n\nTachanun, a supplication consisting of a collection of passages from the Hebrew bible (Tanakh) is said. On Mondays and Thursdays, a longer version is recited. On other days, the extra parts are omitted. The main part of Tachanun is traditionally said with one's head resting on his or her arm. \n\nOn certain days, there is a Torah reading at this point in the service. On most days, three aliyot are given as honors. Seven are given on Shabbat.\n\nThe service concludes, typically with Adon Olam, Psalm of the Day, and Prayer for Peace.\n\nAccording to Jewish law, the earliest time to recite the morning service is when there is enough natural light \"one can see a familiar acquaintance six feet away.\" It is a subjective standard. After sunrise and before mid-day is the usual time for this prayer service. The latest time one may recite the morning service is astronomical noon referred to as \"chatzot.\" After that, the afternoon service can be recited; it is called mincha.\n"}
{"id": "8617012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8617012", "title": "Shangqing School", "text": "Shangqing School\n\nThe Shangqing School (Chinese:上清) or Supreme Clarity is a Daoist movement that began during the aristocracy of the Western Jin dynasty. Shangqing can be translated as either 'Supreme Clarity' or 'Highest Clarity.' The first leader of the school was a woman, Wei Huacun (251-334). According to her Shangqing hagiographers, her devotion to Daoist cultivation so impressed a number of immortals that she received revelations from them 31 volumes of Daoist scriptures which would become the foundation of Shangqing Daoism. Later, Tao Hongjing (Chinese: 陶弘景) (456－536) structured the theory and practice and compiled the canon. He greatly contributed to the development of the school that took place near the end of the 5th century. The mountain near Nanjing where Tao Hongjing had his retreat, Maoshan (茅山), today remains the principal seat of the school.\n\nShangqing practice values meditation techniques of visualization and breathing, as well as physical exercises, as opposed to the use of alchemy and talismans. The recitation of the sacred canon plays an equally important role. The practice was essentially individualistic, contrary to the collective practices in the Celestial Master school or in the Lingbao School. Recruiting from high social classes, during the Tang Dynasty, Shangqing was the dominant school of Daoism, and its influence is found in literature of the time period. The importance of the school only began to diminish beginning from the second half of the Song dynasty. Under the Yuan dynasty, the movement was known by the name Maoshan and the focus changed from meditation to rituals and talismans. In the 21st century, Maoshan Daoism is still practiced but its current techniques are very different from the original techniques developed at the beginning of the school.\n\nLady Wei Huacun, an aristocrat from the Jin dynasty and a Celestial Master practitioner, was the first leader of the Shangqing School. Three decades after her death, from 364 to 370, Yang Xi (330-c. 386) supposedly had revelations \"aided almost certainly by cannabis\" (Joseph Needham 1980:213) and transcribed texts from a group of immortals and spirits that appeared to him. These texts eventually formed the basis of the school’s beliefs. The revelation began to spread in aristocratic circles of South China, and eventually Tao Hongjing, advisor to the princes of Qi, joined the group. He commented upon, and compiled the Shangqing texts, and developed a well-structured system consisting of a pantheon and new ways to reach immortality that depended upon meditation. More interested in Daoism and Buddhism than in public administration, in 492 he received authorization to leave the court. He moved to Maoshan, which had by now become the center of the school. There, with the help of the Emperor Wudi of the Liang dynasty, he built the temple of Huayang, the first Shangqing temple.\n\nAfter his death, the school continued to prosper, and recruited many people from the aristocracy. From its beginning near Nanjing, the school expanded to the north after laws passed in 504 and 517 forced several masters of the school to go into exile. Ironically this expulsion helped spread the movement to the north, and did little to weaken the schools organization in the south. The Daoist encyclopedia published under the patronage of the Emperor Wu of the Northern Zhou (561-578) placed a great deal of importance on the Shangqing texts.\n\nThe Shangqing School dominated the Daoist movements under the Tang. During this period, all of its leaders received a title from the emperor. Emperor Taizong personally visited three of the temples on Maoshan, and in 731 the Xuanzong emperor put Shangqing deities in charge of China’s sacred mountains. The Daoist section of the imperial encyclopedia was composed primarily of Shangqing texts.\n\nAt the same time, the Shangqing school underwent a transformation and integrated texts from the Lingbao School as well as from the Way of the Celestial Master school. The clergy also became more important and more emphasis was put on public rituals.\n\nDuring the second of half of the Northern Song dynasty, the influence of Shangqing Daoism declined at the court, but still remained, changing its focus to rituals and talismans. New buildings appeared on Maoshan that survived until the Cultural Revolution of Mao Zedong. Under the Song, some of the Shangqing leaders still benefited from imperial favour such as the 23rd leader, Zhu Ziying who received the title of ‘national master’ from the court. The 35th and 44th masters, Ren Yuanpu and Wang Daomeng, were equally distinguished for having ended a grasshopper invasion and a flood. Under the Yuan dynasty, the Shangqing school integrated itself under the Zhengyi alliance. At the end of the 20th century, the Taiping Rebellion, the Japanese army and the Cultural Revolution have resulted in the complete destruction of the temples on Maoshan. Two of the temples, Jiuxiaogong and Yuanfugong have been rebuilt more for tourists than for religious purposes.\n\nShangqing Daoism has borrowed many concepts and beliefs from both the Celestial Masters as well as from Ge Hong’s alchemical tradition. However, the absorption of elixirs and other potions aimed to attain immortality was largely replaced in the Song period by internal alchemy that was more linked to meditation techniques (see the \"Zuowanglun\").\n\nAn emphasis was placed on personal meditation in the Shangqing school, unlike the ritualized system of the Celestial Masters. Shangqing meditation was largely a solitary affair, and focused on mental visualization of spirits and gods. There was also no requirement to meditate at a temple; one’s own home was fine. Deities lived inside the body and could provide good health if meditated upon. Each deity inhabited a different part of the body. Through studying the descriptions of deities in the canon, adepts would contemplate the inside of their body and maintain the deities in their proper place. This would ensure the body’s durability. While it began as a school centered on the individual, the school changed progressively until talismans and rituals became a more important aspect.\n\nThe main god of the Shangqing School is known as the Venerable Sovereign, the first of the Three Pure Ones. The pantheon included gods that could be turned to for help, ones that could be revered and others that could be commanded. As described by Tao Hongjing, the pantheon occupied twenty-eight pages in Shangqing texts, but the most important deities are scarcely mentioned. The canon mostly contains information about the gods that lived within the body.\n\nThe principal text of the Shangqing School is known as The True Text of the Great Dong (Dadong Zhenjing). Dong can be translated as cave or grotto, but also has other meanings such as ‘to communicate.’ When the texts were dictated to Yang Xi, the immortals told him that they were the condensed form of primordial qi, and existed before the world was born. Eventually the texts congealed and were sent by heaven to be dictated to Yang.\n\nRecitation and veneration of the texts was extremely important. The transmission of texts was strictly controlled, and only a master could give a text to a disciple. The texts could never be revealed to those outside the school.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8792112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8792112", "title": "Shlomo Elyashiv", "text": "Shlomo Elyashiv\n\nShlomo Elyashiv (Eliashov) (January 5, 1841 [12 Tevet 5602] - March 13, 1926 [27 Adar, 5676]) (), also known as the \"Leshem\" or \"Ba'al HaLeshem\", was a famous kabbalist, who was born in Šiauliai, Lithuania, and later moved to then Palestine . \n\nHis father was Rabbi Chayim Chaikl Eliashoff. \n\nRabbi Elyashev, a brilliant talmudist, studied in the yeshivot of Minsk and Telz. In addition to his own works on Kabbalah (\"Leshem\"), he was instrumental in printing works of earlier kabbalists.\n\nEliashiv taught Rabbi Abraham Isaac Kook Kabbalah when Rabbi Kook was the young rabbi of the town of Zoimel. Rabbi Kook was granted a month-long leave of absence to study with the famous kabbalist in Shavel.\n\nIn 1922, when Rabbi Kook was serving as chief rabbi of Jerusalem, Rabbi Elyashiv asked him for assistance in settling in Eretz Yisrael. Due to Rav Kook’s intervention, the great kabbalist, his son-in-law, daughter, and his eleven-year-old grandson (who would grow up to be the great scholar Rabbi Yosef Shalom Elyashiv), were allowed to emigrate to the Land of Israel.\n\n\"One particularly poignant story tells of a visit the revered Leshem paid to the chief rabbi. It was a bitterly cold winter evening and Rav Kook noted that the Leshem had no coat. Rav Kook immediately took his own fur-lined coat from his closet and gave it to the elderly man as a gift. This coat remained in the Elyashiv family as an heirloom and was periodically worn by Rabbi Yosef Shalom Elyashiv on wintry days.\"\n\nRabbi Elyashiv passed away in 1926, and is buried in Mount of Olives Jewish Cemetery in Jerusalem.\n\nThe primary work for which Elyashiv is known is \"Leshem Shevo V’Achlama\", which was written in four parts and released in the following order:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6932285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6932285", "title": "Sā Pāru", "text": "Sā Pāru\n\nSa Paru, the festival, celebrated in Nepal, mainly in Kathmandu valley by the Newar.\nThe festival commemorates the death of people during the year. During the festival, cows are marched in the streets and generally celebrated in the month of Bhadra (August–September). It falls on the 1st day of the dark fortnight of Gunla according to the lunar Nepal Era calendar. People also distribute food to others. The festival of cows is one of the most popular festivals of Nepal. It is celebrated to remove the sadness of death of family members.\n\n\nKathmandu is considered to be the main source of this festival as the king who started this festival was of this city. After the show presented to the queen was a success, it became an annual program to present the queen with this festival. As time passed on and as the kings and the queens passed on the festival has been passed on from generation to generation. In main Kathmandu, people celebrate it with much happiness and many programs. If a father had died the previous year then the elder son dresses up like a cow and goes around the city, and if the mother had died then it is the duty of the younger son to go around the city dressed up like a cow. The procession is now not that of joke, satire or monkey but has become a serious but enjoyable event that will help their beloved ones to rest in peace. The procession goes around the city to different parts of the suburbs and the inner urban areas to present the devotion to their loved ones. The people involved in this profession get small packets with fruits, sweets, oats and other food items to help them on their tour around the city, by many people watching the festival and by their loved ones.\n\nThe center of Sa Paru in Kirtipur falls in a part of the Kirtipur city known as \"Paanga\". The people in Kirtipur celebrating have many reasons to celebrate this festival and have a unique way of celebrating this festival. Among the people of Kirtipur it is said that the gates of heaven for the dead are opened in this day, and the procession of Gaijatra will help their beloved to reach the gates of heaven if they march around the city for them. They march around the city of Kirtipur with not dressing up like cows but rather dressed up in different forms of gods and goddesses. People celebrate this festival not only for their dead relatives but also for peace and harmony among the family members and the city itself.\n\nDuring this month the farmers of the city finish up their work in the fields and return home to celebrate the ending of the hard and tedious work in the fields. They gather the family members and have a feast of their success. This culture is replicated in this festival in Kirtipur. Men dress up like women and travel around the city. They go from house to house calling up the owners of the house and asking them to come down and join in the feast with them. This helps to create harmony among the neighbors and the city members.\nKirtipur performs many dances with different imitating artists that provide much of an awe and a happiness among the people. Kirtipur is enriched with many beliefs and many stories relating Sa Paru than any other cities of the valley and has a more diverse celebration of this festival.\n\nBhaktapur(Bhadgaon) is said to have the most enjoyable and exciting Sa Paru, as it has its own peculiarities in the ways the festival is celebrated as compared to Lalitpur and Kathmandu. A chariot (known as Taha-Macha) made of bamboo wrapped in cloth, with a photo of the dead person hung at the center, is navigated through a predefined street by the family along with localities. So a long parade of chariots is seen.\n\nThe Taha-Macha symbolize dead people and is decorated with their possessions and photograph. The chariot has a framework of bamboo which is wrapped with cotton cloth usually Hakupatasi (a black traditional sari type female cloth) for women and simple sari type cloth for men. The Taha-Machas are brought out from different toles of Bhaktapur, but peculiarly, the Taha-Machas of Lakolachhen are guided by one large one that has the bamboo framework but is covered in straws. This is known as Bhailya Dya: and is succeeded by Ajima made at Khala (Ajima Dyo:Chhen)\n\nMany local musicians, and a cultural dance called Ghinta Ghisi follow in the wake of a chariot. Men are also seen wearing women's dress: Hakupatasi. People dress up funnily. There is face painting and masks are common. Children even dress up as Gods and join the parade.\n\nThe Ghinta Ghisi dance is celebrated for almost a week, starting from the day of Gaijatra to Krishna Janmashtami. The dance is done in a long queen with two persons in a row hitting each other's sticks. Many cultural shows are performed, and the festival is even participated in by many nearby villages.\nAll peoples are faint to this day.\n\n"}
{"id": "3905278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3905278", "title": "The All", "text": "The All\n\nThe All (also called The One, The Absolute, The Great One, The Creator, The Supreme Mind, The Supreme Good, The Father, and The All Mother) is the Hermetic, pantheistic, pandeistic or panentheistic (and thus also panpsychism/monopsychism/unus mundus/anima mundi) view of God, which is that everything that is, or at least that can be experienced, collectively makes up The All. One Hermetic maxim states, \"While All is in The All, it is equally true that The All is in All.\" The All can also be seen to be androgynous, possessing both masculine and feminine qualities in equal part.\n\nThe following is commentary on possibilities about The All but not anything necessarily accepted by Hermeticists in general.\n\nAccording to The Kybalion, The All is a bit more complicated than simply being the sum total of the universe. Rather than The All being simply the physical universe, it is more correct to say that everything in the universe is within the mind of The All, since the ALL can be looked at as Mind itself. In effect, the universe is partially existent on the Mental plane, and we may in fact all be parts of The All's psychological makeup, representing parts of The All in its dream or meditation.\n\nThe Three Initiates (see The Kybalion) strongly caution that we restrain from simply declaring \"I am God\" for oversimplification purposes. Though you are a part of The All, you are but one small piece of that puzzle. You cannot be equated with God any more than your toenail can be equated with you. You have the potential for perfection and to rejoin God, but you are not the totality of God. However stating \"God is me/I (us)\" is a more accurate statement.\n\nThe All's mind can be seen as infinitely more powerful and vast than any of us could hope to achieve. Therefore, it may be capable of keeping track of each and every particle across the expanse of the Universe, as well as maintain symbolism that applies to many lesser entities such as that seen in astrology and numerology.\n\nBecause of this view, some Hermetics also practice theurgy. If the universe is completely a mental construct, then the mind must be able to mold it and shape it, in an experience that can become closer and closer to lucid dreaming as skills improve.\n\nQuestions as to why God acts or doesn't act is an ancient question with many divergent answers. The same has been asked by Hermetics of the All, and many reasons have been put forth.\n\nSome Hermetics believe that The All acts so that it may gain something from the action, for it must have a reason for acting, for having created the universe and our own existence. Critics of this idea argue that there is nothing outside of The All for it to gain, it is All. Meanwhile, proponents argue that the critics fail to recognize inner growth that allow the All to change by acting upon itself.\n\nSome Hermetics believe that The All acts because it is internally compelled to do so out of creative urge that is innate. Critics claim that The All is absolute and if this urge were to compel The All then it (the proposed urge) instead would be absolute .\n\nThe Kybalion claims simply that \"THE ALL ACTS BECAUSE IT ACTS.\" (\"cf.\" Actus purus) There is no reason but The All itself, therefore its action, itself, and its reason for action are all the same thing.\n\nThough sometimes referred to as The Father, The All is not simply male. In this aspect, The All is called The Father for its active, masculine part in the creation of what is, not because of its physical sex. Similarly, that what it was created out of, is represented as The Mother, for its passive, feminine aspect in that same process. For example, we say Mother Earth and Mother Nature.\n\nThe story describing The All here is not meant to be taken literally, but rather has symbolic meaning. Hermetics do not ever claim that the creation story used for this information is to be taken literally. The All has three aspects which are known as The Father and the \"Sons of God,\" put forth in the Corpus Hermeticum:\n\n\"Nous\" bridges the gap between The All and its contents, and is described having taught Hermes Trismegistus his initial knowledge on God and the divine in Book 1 of the Corpus Hermeticum. Manly P. Hall translates \"Nous\" differently, instead calling it \"Thought (Thoth)\", an Egyptian god generally seen as synonymous with Hermes. The terms \"Great Dragon,\" and \"Eternal Teacher\" also pop up for Nous in his translation.\n\n\"Nous\" is claimed also to be the Father of the Word, and only comes to pious and religious men. \"Nous\" claims to be God while the others are \"sons of God\" It was \"Nous\" who is said to have created Man, both male and female (or hermaphroditic; some translations claiming \"bisexual\" used in a way to connote hermaphroditic), 7 of them, which were later broken up into separate men and women after falling in love with Nature, its shadow, and actually merging with Nature, or, in other words, incarnating.\n\nHermes proclaims that \"Nous\" is the \"cause of existence\" and God should be worshipped by those two names, for they belong only to God. \"Nous\", or God, is also seen as synonymous with the \"Supreme Good\".\n\n\"Poimandres had spoken a Word. The Word was Reason\" and \"Reason\" is given to \"The Workman\", \"The Master-Builder\", and \"The Maker of Things\". \"Nous\" and \"Reason\" are truly one, according to the Hermeticum, and their Union is Life. The Word is also known as \"The Logos\".\n\nThe Word is used, by inhabiting the elements, to create destiny, the \"seven governors\" (Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn of astrology) and was used to organize Chaos. The leaving of Reason from the elements is said to give rise to the lower creatures, who were created without \"Reason\". See also Logos.\n\n\"Anthropos\" (called the third son of God, while others see Nous—one of these sons of God—as the Father of the other two, and truly being God) is essentially the human soul which comes from God, and is destined to return to God. It is the part of man that is not material, the spiritual part of Man as opposed to the man's body (physical) or nous/mind (mental). It is further said that God is made up of innumerable souls, and if they conduct themselves properly, being true to themselves, they may become Powers of God, which would lend credit to \"The All has Something to Gain\" theory for action.\n\nThe \"Kybalions\" interpretation of The ALL is that of a Substantial Reality, and transcends names and terms and in essence is unknowable. It can be said that this corresponds to the ideas of or about the Tao, with respect to the interpretation of an all encompassing force above all other. There is little room in this view for a \"god\", for it is stated that the ALL transcends names and terms. For reasons of logic, the Kybalion goes further in stating that there can be nothing existing outside of the ALL, else the ALL would not be The ALL. Anything finite, changeable, fleeting, and conditioned cannot be The All.\n\nThose seeking a deeper understanding of life will ask the question, \"Where did The All come from?\" Some Hermeticists, strong adherents of \"The Kybalion\", go no further than to state \"THE ALL must be INFINITE, for there is nothing else to define, confine, bound, limit or restrict THE ALL. It must be infinite in Time, or ETERNAL,-- it must have always continuously existed, for there is nothing else to have ever created it ... if it had ever 'not been,' even for a moment, it would not 'be' now.\"\n\nIn 1975, Summum, an esoteric organization whose philosophy also includes the natural principles described in \"The Kybalion\", put forth an explanation behind The All's existence and claims the explanation came from \"Summa Individuals\", beings who appear to be what \"The Kybalion\" describes as \"Unseen Divinities\" that intervene and assist with human affairs. Summum rewrote \"The Kybalion\" to include its explanation along with additional information. Summum refers to The All as \"SUMMUM,\" a Latin term meaning \"highest\" or \"greatest\", and in the context of the Summum philosophy means, \"the sum total of creation\". The explanation Summum offers is based upon what it calls the \"Grand Principle of Creation,\" and via this grand principle, The All (SUMMUM) exists. In summary, according to the Summum philosophy, The All is a union between Nothing and All Possibility, the ultimate opposites, and the nature of that union is without beginning or end for these two opposites automatically and simultaneously create each other. The result is a \"cosmic copulation\" whose effect is an infinite, living mind.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10918306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10918306", "title": "The Heathen's Guide to World Religions", "text": "The Heathen's Guide to World Religions\n\nThe Heathen's Guide to World Religions is a book by Kingston, Ontario-based William Hopper (1966-2017). It is a humorous look at the history of the Jewish, Christian, Islamic, Buddhist and Hindu faiths.\n\nThe book was written in 1997, and self-published by Hopper that same year. After attracting the attention of publishers, it was re-released in 2001 by StoneFox Publishing. After StoneFox went defunct in 2003, the rights to the book reverted to the author. In 2005, Hopper founded Diogenes Press, publishing a new, expanded edition of \"The Heathen's Guide to World Religions\". In 2008, Hopper worked with Eris Publications to produce the current \"New World Order\" edition. The most recent edition was published in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "54528252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54528252", "title": "The King's Messengers", "text": "The King's Messengers\n\nThe King’s Messengers is an American Teen drama mini-series produced by Crystal Creek Media that premiered on Amazon Prime. It centers on Anwaar Osem (Christopher Veldhuizen) and David Sutherland (Daniel Knudsen), two refugees trying to survive in the fictional war-torn country of Zanora. The series was awarded a Dove seal of family approval from the Dove Foundation.\n\nAnwaar’s parents were killed during an air raid led by forces fighting for political control of Zanora. He flees to the northern forrest to escape a corrupt regime as well as the dangerous Resistance Army. While hiding out and surviving in the woods he meets David Sutherland, a fellow refugee who is also trying to escape the Resistance Army. Anwaar questions David on a computer that David has, however David will not reveal any information to Anwaar. After a close call with a Resistance soldier, David reveals that his brother Allen gave him the computer and it has something important on it. David himself does not know what the computer contains as it was entrusted to him while he narrowly escaped during a raid on the British consulate by the Resistance Army. Anwaar convinces David to do a webcast with the computer and eventually the two become friends.\n\n\n\nPrincipal photography for \"The King’s Messengers\" took place during the summer of 2016. Most of the show was filmed on location near Detroit, Michigan with additional photography taking place in New York City. Crystal Creek Media released a trailer for the series on June 19, 2017.\n\nThe first four episodes premiered as a film at the 2017 Christian Worldview Film Festival. The mini-series also received a five-Dove review rating from the Dove Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "46898585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46898585", "title": "The Living and the Dead (TV series)", "text": "The Living and the Dead (TV series)\n\nThe Living and the Dead is a British supernatural horror television miniseries created by Ashley Pharoah. The plot revolves around Nathan Appleby (played by Colin Morgan) and his wife, Charlotte Appleby (played by Charlotte Spencer), whose farm is believed to be at the centre of numerous supernatural occurrences.\n\n\n\nThe series was created by \"Life on Mars\" and \"Ashes to Ashes\" co-creator Ashley Pharoah. Pharoah's creative partner Matthew Graham was initially attached to the series, but withdrew prior to its production to work on \"Childhood's End\" for SyFy. The series is directed by Alice Troughton and Sam Donovan.\n\nOn 5 June 2015, Colin Morgan and Charlotte Spencer were announced to join the cast.\n\n\"The Living and the Dead\" production is based in the Bottle Yard Studios in Bristol, England. and at Horton Court in Gloucestershire .\n\nThe six-part BBC One TV Series began rehearsals on 29 July 2015, and shooting commenced in the West Country on 3 August 2015, with an official announcement about the series on 7 August 2015. Filming concluded on 18 December 2015.\n\nOn 12 August 2016, BBC had officially stated that the series would not be renewed for a second series.\n\nBristol-based duo The Insects were commissioned to write the score for the series. The first episode features the traditional song \"She Moved Through the Fair\" sung by Elizabeth Fraser, plus the Anglican hymn \"Immortal, Invisible, God Only Wise\" at the ploughman's funeral. Another recurring song is \"The Reaper's Ghost\", composed by Richard Dyer-Bennet in 1935.\n\n"}
{"id": "40121131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40121131", "title": "Uatsdin", "text": "Uatsdin\n\nUatsdin (), otherwise spelled Watsdin, also known as Assdin (Ассдин, \"Ese-Faith\"), or by the extended name Ætsæg Din (Æцæг Дин, literally \"True Faith\"; the same meaning of \"Uatsdin\", which is a word compound), and among Russians as Assianism (, \"Assianstvo\"; alternative rendition of \"Assdin\"), is the modern neo-Pagan movement and religious organization of the same name founded in North Ossetia. Its followers consist primarily by the Ossetians (an Eastern Iranic, Alan-Samatian ethnic group inhabiting a homeland in the Caucasus that is split nowadays between two states: the Republic of North Ossetia–Alania within Russia, and the neighbouring state of South Ossetia). This religion has experienced an organised revival since the 1980s.\n\nIn the Ossetian case, certain traditions of folk religion had survived with unbroken continuity, and were revived in rural areas. This contrasts, and interacts, with an urban and more intellectual movement which elaborated a systematic revival religion to overcome the crisis of identity of the Ossetian people, based in ethnic nationalism and opposition to both Russian and Georgian Orthodox Christianity, perceived as foreign, and opposed as well to the Islam professed by the neighboring Turkic and Caucasian ethnic groups and among a small minority of Ossetians. The major organisation among Ossetians is the \"Atsætæ\" organization (Ossetian: Ацæтæ; Russian: Асата, \"Asata\") led by Daurbek Makeyev, based in North Ossetia–Alania.\n\nThe Uatsdin movement is active both in North and South Ossetia. Whilst there are no figures about religious demographics for South Ossetia, in North Ossetia–Alania about 29% of the population was practicing this ethnic folk-religion in 2012, according to a survey carried out in that year.\n\n\"Ætsæg\" literally means \"right\", \"true\" in the Ossetian language, and is a cognate of Avestan \"haiθiia\", also meaning \"true\". \"Din\" is a cognate of the Avestan \"daena\" (whence \"din\" in Persian), which represents \"insight\" and \"revelation\", and from this \"observance\" and \"religion\", but also \"consciousness\".\n\nUatsdin contemplates the worship of a supreme God, Xwytsau (Хуыцау), meaning \"Heaven\" or \"Sky\", who is the creator of the universe and of all beings. The supreme God may be called upon by a multiplicity of epithets, including simply \"Yštyr Xwytsau\" (Ыштыр Хуыцау), meaning \"Great Heaven\", but also \"Duneskænæg\" (Дунескæнæг), \"Creator of the Universe\", \"Meskænæg Xwytsau\" (Мескаенаег Хуыцау) and \"Styr Xwytsau\" (Стыр Хуыцау), meaning \"God of the Gods\". Uatsdin's theology affirms that God is within every creature, and in men he manifests as consciousness and worthy action. A variety of other beings, lesser gods, ancestors and heroes such as Uastyrdzhi, are worshipped as intermediaries with Xwytsau.\n\nThere are attempts to turn local traditional gods into objects of national worship in North Ossetia–Alania. For example, in former times, a grove was devoted to the local communal god/saint Khetag. After the clashes between Ossetians and Georgians in 1991–1992, a glade near the wood was turned into a place for pan-Ossetian worship, including religious and political rituals, with activities supervised by the Great Council of Ossetian Priests (\"Styr-nykhas\"), a non-governmental committee established in 1993.\n\nThe Khetag celebration was approved by the 1990s president of North Ossetia–Alania as a national holiday. A special foundation was established in order to raise funds for the reconstruction of the site, and since 1994 a big annual sacrifice is arranged at the Khetag shrine.\n\nIn 2009, at the Center for Conservative Research of Moscow State University, led by philosopher Alexander Dugin, a conference was held about the role of Ossetians in Russian history. Among participants there was, among others, Daurbek Makeyev, the head of the \"Atsætæ\" Church. On that occasion, Dugin praised the revitalisation of Ossetian culture for it having preserved a pristine Indo-European heritage. He discussed the importance of Scythian culture in the development of broader Eurasia, recognising that Scythian culture had an enormous impact on the development of Finno-Ugric, Turkic and Slavic cultures, and despite this European scholars have paid little attention to it so far. Makeyev declared that the \"Atsætæ\" Church was founded for fostering traditional Ossetian religion, but also to share the heritage of Assianism with other peoples, because \"what was preserved in Ossetia is not [merely] Ossetian, but is a worldwide heritage\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2512798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2512798", "title": "Wirikuta", "text": "Wirikuta\n\nWirikuta is a site, sacred to the Wixárika (Huichol) Indians high in the mountains of central Mexico, between the Sierra Madre Oriental and the Zacatecas ranges, near Real de Catorce. In Wixárika cosmology, the world was believed to have been created in Wirikuta. \n\nWirikuta is the focus of a yearly pilgrimage in which community members, led by maraka'ames (chamanes), travel approximately 250 miles (400 kilometers) from Jalisco to San Luis Potosí. The area in which the pilgrimage occurs is protected as a UNESCO Natural Sacred Area, but is at risk for exploitation and environmental damage by the foreign mining company First Majestic Silver.\n\nThe sun made its first appearance in Wirikuta, and it is the sacred land of the Wixárikas (Huichol's) deified ancestors. They have sacred places on each one of the cardinal directions and the center.\n\n\nHuichols carry out yearly pilgrimages to Wirikuta or Huiricuta. Between October and March, they follow the journey of their deities from Haramara's sea to the place where the Sun appeared (Reunax), the Cerro Quemado (\"Leunaxü\"). Those Gods were guided by Tatewari, the Grandfather Fire. There, a Deer (\"maxa\") used his horns to rise the sun to the sky, illuminating the world.\n\nIn order to follow the sacred journey, every year the maraka'ames (chamanes) travel 250 miles (400 kilometers) from wixarica's area in Jalisco to San Luis Potosí. At the beginning they walk towards Takata, a sacred area in Sierra Madre Occidental where the temple guard (\"xuxuricare\") will ask for a safe journey. The next step is \"kalihuey\", a Main Temple where they join Wixarica's authorities.\nThey collect peyote - a cactus containing hallucinogens - along the way, they believe the peyote enables the Wixarica (Huichol) to commune directly with their ancestors and deities. At the end they collect \"hikuri\" and take it back to their homes, recreating life's cycle.\n\nGroups travel under the direction of a leading shaman, but may include other shamans who assist on the journey, apprentice shamans, and family groups which may include children. The lead shaman advises participants on their ingestion of peyote and other behavior. Abstinence and purification are important parts of the journey. Participants abstain from sex, and abstain from or limit food, water, and sleep. Early in the journey, participants undergo a rite of public confession and purification, to prepare themselves for further healing and growth as they travel. This includes a retelling of each person's transgressions in front of the group. The most significant transgressions are those of theft, murder and adultery. Confession therefore includes the public recitation of a full personal sexual history. The intention is to create an experience of cleansing and renewal, free of jealousy, shame or blame. A fire invokes \"Tatehuari\" while a Maraka'me hits each speaker's legs with a stick so that they may remember correctly and not omit any occurrence. \n\nThe Wirikuta, a sacred place for the Huichol peoples, is being threatened by First Majestic Silver, which has obtained permission from the Mexican government for its proposed La Luz Silver Project for the extraction of silver in the Sierra Decatorce, even though it is transgressing the law in covenants that protect the area Wirikuta and the Wixarika peoples at national and international levels.\n\nThe mining site represents a threat to the environment balance and health of the population in the area. It is adding greater social impacts through the division of local peoples. Chemical substances used in the mining process from previous mines are destroying resources at various levels, which are creating impact on the environment and human health. For example, the mining sites will consume vast quantities of water in an already arid region.\n\n"}
{"id": "47334822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47334822", "title": "Yazidis in Sweden", "text": "Yazidis in Sweden\n\nYazidis in Sweden may refer to people born in or residing in Sweden of full or partial Yazidi origin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23124446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23124446", "title": "Zaili teaching", "text": "Zaili teaching\n\nZailiism (在理教, the \"Way of the Abiding Principle\") or Liism (理教), also known as the Baiyidao (白衣道 \"White-Clad Way\") or Bafangdao (八方道 \"Octagonal Way\"), is a Chinese folk religious sect of north China, founded in the 17th century by Yang Zai. It claims a Taoist identity and is centered on the worship of Guanyin as the incarnation of the principle of the universe, the \"Only God of the Unlimited\" (无极只神 \"Wújí Zhīshén\").\n\nZailiism was founded during the waning years of the Ming dynasty by Yang Zai (1621-1754; alias Yang Chengqing or Yang Rulai), a holder of the \"jinshi\" degree from Jimo, Shandong. Although anxious to take up an official position, Yang remained in Jimo to care for his aged mother. After her death he became a religious leader, and there are different accounts about how this happened. Some sources attribute this to a vision or encounter with Guanyin.\n\nHe certainly migrated to the mountains of Ji County in Tianjin. Here he remained for ten years in meditation in the Lanshui Cave, he purified himself and formulated his philosophical teachings revolving around the Eight Proscriptions (\"ba jie\"). At the age of eighty he took ten disciples, who were sent in different directions to spread the teaching. Yang, thanks to his techniques of meditation and refinement, reputedly died at the age of 133.\n\nThe religion was formally established in Tianjin, and by the mid 18th century it had spread throughout north China. Mass following was founded on the work of Yin Ruo (1729-1806; alias Yin Laifeng and Yin Zhongshan), the second great patriarch in the history of the sect. In 1766, Yin founded the first common house (\"gong suo\") in the suburbs of Tianjin; common houses became the basic and characteristic organisation units of Zailiism. They are both temples and meeting houses, and early common houses were rooms in private homes and village temples. By the early republican period some of them had evolved into elaborate complexes of buildings and courtyards.\n\nCommon houses were run by two layers of leadership: ritual and administrative. The ritual ministers were the \"dangjia\", celibate men who engaged in a strict self-cultivation regimen. In Tianjin every common house had a single \"dangjia\", who more than parish priests were holy men and moral exemplars, who led few yearly rituals of the sect. The administrative counterpart was the \"manager\" (\"chengbanren\"), a lay who cared for the daily activities of the common house.\n\nThe spread of Zailiism did not go unnoticed, and in the 19th century Qing dynasty officials carried out various investigations to verify the orthodoxy of the sect, always concluding that it was orthodox and contributed to the economy and morality of the population. Some officials advised the throne not only to recognise the sect, but even to encourage it to counter the growing influence of Christianity.\n\nIn 1891, Zaili lodges led an uprising in Rehe, in a climate of Han Chinese discontent with privileges of the Mongol nobility and the Catholic Church. Although the uprising was crushed, the tensions festered and reemerged within the Boxer Rebellion at the turn of the century.\n\nThe sect grew rapidly in the last years of the Qing dynasty and in the early republic. Zaili adherents operated a large number of lodges and took over some disrepaired temples of other religions. By the late 19th century it had already established a strong presence in Manchuria, and by the early 20th century it started to exhibit a national character. It even spread among ethnic Chinese in Russia. By the 1920s the sect had an established presence in all major cities of China, and when Jiangsu province outlawed it in 1929, influential leaders of Beijing, Tianjin and Shanghai appealed to the national government to have the ban lifted. In August 1929 the Ministry of the Interior gave explicit approval to Zailiism.\n\nZailiism returned active in China's Hebei province since the late 1990s. It also has 186,000 members in Taiwan, corresponding to 0.8% of the total population. There is a Chinese United Church of Liism (中华理教总会 \"Zhōnghuá Lǐjiào Zǒnghuì\") and other smaller bodies.\n\nThe most characteristic element of Zailiism is the emphasis on physical purity and abstinence from addictive substances. Zailiism spread as members founded charities and campaigned for abstinence from alcohol, tobacco, and opium, and offering cures for the addicts. Zaili followers developed drug rehabilitation centres using herbal medicines and self-cultivation techniques (\"zhengshen\"), which were said to fully cure two hundred addicts per year.\n\nZaili members also founded the \"China's General Association for the Prevention of Alcohol and Tobacco According to the Righteously Good Teachings\" (中華全國理善勸戒煙酒總會 \"Zhōnghuá quánguó lǐ shàn quàn jièyān jiǔ zǒng huì\"), that was recognized by the Yuan Shikai government in June 1913.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58517541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58517541", "title": "École Yabné (Paris)", "text": "École Yabné (Paris)\n\nThe École Yabné is a Jewish religious school founded 1948, in Paris by Chief Rabbi and Jacob Kaplan with the help of rabbi Élie Munk and Chief Rabbi Henri Schilli which continues to run to this day.\n\nIn 1948 the Chief Rabbi Jacob Kaplan, with the help of Suzanne Aron, created a Jewish lycée which he called \"École Yabné.\" He received help from Rabbi Élie Munk, Chief Rabbi Henri Schilli, and from the communities of Synagogue Adas Yereim|rue Cadet, Synagogue de la rue de Montevideo,rue Montévidéo, rue Pavée and Synagogue Rashi (Paris),rue Ambroise-Thomas. To run the school, Suzanne Aron called upon Albert Crémieux.\n\nIt was established in 1948, on the grounds of the Gustave de Rothschild Foundation, at 60 rue Claude-Bernard, in the Quartier Latin. There was not enough room in the small building for all the Classe de sixième française|sixth-form classes in the final year.\nThe solution was to educate half the students in the morning, and half in the afternoon. Some classes also took place in the Séminaire israélite de France,rabbinical seminary, located at 9 rue Vauquelin.\n\nThe situation continued until the construction, in the 1960s, of a multi-story building, far more spacious and in the same location, which can accommodate all classes. This building was opened on 2 May 1965. The building included a gym and a refectory for the first time.\n\nIn 1976, in agreement with the centre Rachi classes took place from first year to the final year. Yabné could then accommodate 750 students.\n\nIn 1993, the school left the Quartier Latin for the Porte d'Italie. It is currently the largest Jewish college in France. It has more than 1000 students from the kindergarten to the final year.\n\nThe primary school has the name \"École Yabné- Henri Schilli\".\n\nIn 2015, the lycée ranked 47th out of 109 at départemental level in terms of teaching quality, and 452nd at national level. The ranking is based on three criteria; the bac results, the proportion of students who obtain their baccalauréat after two years at the establishment and the \"added value\" (calculated based on social origin of students, their age, and their national diploma results).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
