{"id": "45507655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45507655", "title": "2013 in Portuguese television", "text": "2013 in Portuguese television\n\nThis is a list of Portuguese television related events from 2013.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49457475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49457475", "title": "2nd district of Budapest", "text": "2nd district of Budapest\n\n2nd District the 2nd district of Budapest, Hungary. Rosehill\n"}
{"id": "5121746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5121746", "title": "A Perfect Day (2005 film)", "text": "A Perfect Day (2005 film)\n\nA Perfect Day (, \"Yawmon Akhar\") is a 2005 Lebanese film directed by Joana Hadjithomas and Khalil Joreige. The soundtrack was done by the band Scrambled Eggs, Soap Kills and others.\n\nMalek, a 26-year-old man who suffers from sleep disorders, is obsessed with thoughts of his ex-girlfriend Zeina. Meanwhile, his overprotective mother struggles with the disappearance of her husband, who was kidnapped more than 15 years ago during the civil war.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54356662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54356662", "title": "Abiriw", "text": "Abiriw\n\n\"'Abiriw\" is a town in the Eastern Region of Ghana.\n"}
{"id": "240307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=240307", "title": "Aboriginal Tasmanians", "text": "Aboriginal Tasmanians\n\nThe Aboriginal Tasmanians (Tasmanian: \"Palawa\") are the indigenous people of the Australian state of Tasmania, located south of the mainland. For much of the 20th century, the Tasmanian Aboriginal people were widely, and erroneously, thought of as being an extinct cultural and ethnic group. Contemporary figures (2016) for the number of people of Tasmanian Aboriginal descent vary according to the criteria used to determine this identity, ranging from 6,000 to over 23,000.\n\nFirst arriving in Tasmania (then a peninsula of Australia) around 40,000 years ago, the ancestors of the Aboriginal Tasmanians were cut off from the Australian mainland by rising sea levels c. 6000 BC. They were entirely isolated from the rest of the human race for 8,000 years until British contact.\n\nBefore British colonisation in 1803, there were an estimated 3,000–15,000 Palawa. The Palawa population suffered a drastic drop in numbers within three decades, so that by 1835 only some 400 full-blooded Tasmanian aborigines survived, most of this remnant being incarcerated in camps where all but 47 died within the following 12 years. No consensus exists as to the cause, over which a major controversy arose. The traditional view, still affirmed, held that this dramatic demographic collapse was the result of the impact of introduced diseases, rather than the consequence of policy. Geoffrey Blainey, for example, wrote that by 1830 in Tasmania: \"Disease had killed most of them but warfare and private violence had also been devastating.\" Henry Reynolds attributed the depletion to losses in the Black War. Keith Windschuttle claimed that in addition to disease, the prostitution of women in a society already in decline, explained the extinction. Many specialists in the history of colonialism and genocide, such as Ben Kiernan, Colin Tatz, and Benjamin Madley state that the Tasmanian decimation qualifies as genocide in terms of the definition set forth by Raphael Lemkin and adopted in the UN Genocide Convention.\n\nBy 1833, Christian missionary George Augustus Robinson, sponsored by Lieutenant-Governor George Arthur, had persuaded the approximately 200 surviving Aboriginal Tasmanians to surrender themselves with assurances that they would be protected, provided for and eventually have their lands returned to them. These \"assurances\" were false; there is no suggestion that Robinson or Lieutenant-Governor Arthur intended anything else but exile to the Furneaux Islands, and the assurances were given by Robinson in order to facilitate the removal of the Aboriginal people from mainland Tasmania. The survivors were moved to Wybalenna Aboriginal Establishment on Flinders Island, where diseases continued to reduce their numbers even further. In 1847, the last 47 living inhabitants of Wybalenna were transferred to Oyster Cove, south of Hobart. Two individuals, Truganini (1812–1876) and Fanny Cochrane Smith (1834–1905), are separately considered to have been the last people solely of Tasmanian descent.\n\nThe complete indigenous Tasmanian languages have been lost; some original Tasmanian language words remained in use with Palawa people in the Furneaux Islands, and there are some efforts to reconstruct a language from the available wordlists. Today, some thousands of people living in Tasmania describe themselves as Aboriginal Tasmanians since a number of Parlevar women bore children to European men in the Furneaux Islands and mainland Tasmania.\n\nPeople crossed into Tasmania approximately 40,000 years, ago via a land bridge between the island and the rest of mainland Australia, during the last glacial period. According to genetic studies, once the sea level rose, flooding the Bassian Plain, the people were left isolated for approximately 8,000 years, until the time of European exploration, during the late 18th and early 19th centuries.\n\nUntil the 1980s, it was thought that Tasmania was only occupied relatively recently, but the discovery of 19,000-year-old deposits at Kutikina (or Fraser) Cave demonstrated the Ice Age occupation of the highlands. In 1990, archaeologists excavated material in the Warreen Cave in the Maxwell River valley of the south-west, proving Aboriginal occupation from as early as 34,000 BP, making indigenous Tasmanians the southern-most population in the world during the Pleistocene era. Modern digs in southwest and central Tasmania turned up very abundant finds, affording \"the richest archaeological evidence from Pleistocene Greater Australia\" covering the period from 35,000 to 11,000 BP.\n\nTasmania was colonised by successive waves of aboriginal people from southern Australia during glacial maxima, when the sea was at its lowest. The archeological and geographic record suggests a period of drying, with the colder glacial period, with a desert extending from southern Australia into the midlands of Tasmania - with intermittent periods of wetter, warmer weather. People migrating from southern Australia into peninsular Tasmania would have crossed stretches of seawater and desert, and finally found oases in the King highlands (now King Island).\n\nThe archeological, geographic and linguistic record suggests a pattern of successive occupation of Tasmania, and coalescence of three ethnic or language groups into one broad group. Evidence for contest over territory is reflected by the presence of \"Nara\" (the broad western Tasmania language group) toponymy in \"Mara\" (the broad eastern language group) territory; for example - suggesting a pattern of occupation and hostile takeover that mirrors traditional hostilities during colonial times.\nColonial settlers found two main language groups in Tasmania upon their arrival, which correlates with the broader nation or clan divisions.\n\nAfter the sea rose to create Bass Strait, the Australian mainland and Tasmania became separate land masses, and the Aboriginal people who had migrated from mainland Australia became cut off from their cousins on the mainland. Archeological evidence suggests remnant populations on the King and Furneaux highlands being stranded by rising waters - later to die out.\n\nAbel Jansen Tasman, credited as the first European to discover Tasmania (in 1642) and who named it Van Diemen's Land, did not encounter any of the Aboriginal Tasmanians when he landed.\nIn 1772, a French exploratory expedition under Marion Dufresne visited Tasmania. At first, contact with the Aboriginal people was friendly; however the Aboriginal Tasmanians became alarmed when another boat was dispatched towards the shore. It was reported that spears and stones were thrown and the French responded with musket fire, killing at least one Aboriginal person and wounding several others. Two later French expeditions led by Bruni d'Entrecasteaux in 1792–93 and Nicolas Baudin in 1802 made friendly contact with the Aboriginal Tasmanians; the d'Entrecasteaux expedition doing so over an extended period of time.\n\nThe \"Resolution\" under Captain Tobias Furneaux (part of an expedition led by Captain James Cook) had visited in 1773 but made no contact with the Aboriginal Tasmanians although gifts were left for them in unoccupied shelters found on Bruny Island. The first known British contact with the Aboriginal Tasmanians was on Bruny Island by Captain Cook in 1777. The contact was peaceful. Captain William Bligh also visited Bruny Island in 1788 and made peaceful contact with the Aboriginal Tasmanians.\n\nMore extensive contact between Aboriginal Tasmanians and Europeans resulted when British and American seal hunters began visiting the islands in Bass Strait as well as the northern and eastern coasts of Tasmania from the late 1790s. Shortly thereafter (by about 1800), sealers were regularly left on uninhabited islands in Bass Strait during the sealing season (November to May). The sealers established semi-permanent camps or settlements on the islands, which were close enough for the sealers to reach the main island of Tasmania in small boats and so make contact with the Aboriginal Tasmanians.\n\nTrading relationships developed between sealers and Tasmanian Aboriginal tribes. Hunting dogs became highly prized by the Aboriginal people, as were other exotic items such as flour, tea and tobacco. The Aboriginal people traded kangaroo skins for such goods. However, a trade in Aboriginal women soon developed. Many Tasmanian Aboriginal women were highly skilled in hunting seals, as well as in obtaining other foods such as seabirds, and some Tasmanian tribes would trade their services and, more rarely, those of Aboriginal men to the sealers for the seal-hunting season. Others were sold on a permanent basis. This trade incorporated not only women of the tribe engaged in the trade but also women abducted from other tribes. Some may have been given to incorporate the new arrivals into Aboriginal society through marriage.\n\nSealers engaged in raids along the coasts to abduct Aboriginal women and were reported to have killed Aboriginal men in the process. By 1810 seal numbers had been greatly reduced by hunting so most seal hunters abandoned the area, however a small number of sealers, approximately fifty mostly \"renegade sailors, escaped convicts or ex-convicts\", remained as permanent residents of the Bass Strait islands and some established families with Tasmanian Aboriginal women.\n\nSome of the women were taken back to the islands by the sealers involuntarily and some went willingly, as in the case of a woman called Tarerenorerer (Eng:Walyer). Differing opinions have been given on Walyer's involvement with the sealers. McFarlane writes that she voluntarily joined the sealers with members of her family, and was responsible for attacking Aboriginal people and white settlers alike. Ryan comes to a different conclusion, that Walyer had been abducted at Port Sorell by Aboriginal people and traded to the sealers for dogs and flour. Walyer was later to gain some notoriety for her attempts to kill the sealers to escape their brutality. Walyer, a Punnilerpanner, joined the Plairhekehillerplue band after eventually escaping and went on to lead attacks on employees of the Van Diemen's Land Company. Walyer's attacks are the first recorded use of muskets by Aboriginal people. Captured, she refused to work and was banished to Penguin Island. Later imprisoned on Swan Island she attempted to organise a rebellion. Although Aboriginal women were by custom forbidden to take part in war, several Aboriginal women who escaped from sealers became leaders or took part in attacks. According to Lyndall Ryan, the women traded to, or kidnapped by sealers became \"a significant dissident group\" against white authority.\n\nHistorian James Bonwick reported Aboriginal women who were clearly captives of sealers but he also reported women living with sealers who \"proved faithful and affectionate to their new husbands\", women who appeared \"content\" and others who were allowed to visit their \"native tribe\", taking gifts, with the sealers being confident that they would return. Bonwick also reports a number of claims of brutality by sealers towards Aboriginal women including some of those made by Robinson.. An Aboriginal woman by the name of Bulrer related her experience to Robinson, that sealers had rushed her camp and stolen six women including herself \"the white men tie them and then they flog them very much, plenty much blood, plenty cry.\" Sealing captain, James Kelly, wrote in 1816 that the custom of the sealers was to each have \"two to five of these native women for their own use and benefit.\" A shortage of women available \"in trade\" resulted in abduction becoming common and in 1830 it was reported that at least fifty Aboriginal women were \"kept in slavery\" on the Bass Strait islands.\n\"Harrington, a sealer, procured ten or fifteen native women, and placed them on different islands in Bass's Straits, where he left them to procure skins; if, however, when he returned, they had not obtained enough, he punished them by tying them up to trees for twenty-four to thirty-six hours together, flogging them at intervals, and he killed them not infrequently if they proved stubborn.\" (H.W.Parker \"The Rise, Progress, and Present State of V. D. Land\" 1833)\nThe raids for, and trade in, Aboriginal women contributed to the rapid depletion of the numbers of Aboriginal women in the northern areas of Tasmania, \"by 1830 only three women survived in northeast Tasmania among 72 men\", and thus contributed in a significant manner to the demise of the full-blooded Aboriginal population of Tasmania. However many modern day Aboriginal Tasmanians trace their descent from the 19th century sealer communities of Bass Strait.\n\nThere are numerous stories of the sealers' brutality towards the Aboriginal women; with some of these reports originating from Robinson. In 1830, Robinson seized 14 Aboriginal women from the sealers, planning for them to marry Aboriginal men at the Flinders Island settlement. Josephine Flood, an archaeologist specialising in Australian mainland Aboriginal peoples, notes: \"he encountered strong resistance from the women as well as sealers\". The sealers sent a representative, James Munro, to appeal to Governor Arthur and argue for the women's return on the basis that they wanted to stay with their sealer husbands and children rather than marry Aboriginal men unknown to them. Arthur ordered the return of some of the women. Shortly thereafter, Robinson began to disseminate stories, told to him by James Munro, of atrocities allegedly committed by the sealers against Aboriginal people and against Aboriginal women, in particular. Brian Plomley, who edited Robinson's papers, expressed scepticism about these atrocities and notes that they were not reported to Archdeacon Broughton's 1830 committee of inquiry into violence towards Tasmanians. Abduction and ill-treatment of Aboriginal Tasmanians certainly occurred, but the extent is debated.\n\nBetween 1803 and 1823, there were two phases of conflict between the Aboriginal people and the British colonists. The first took place between 1803 and 1808 over the need for common food sources such as oysters and kangaroos, and the second between 1808 and 1823, when the small number of white females among the farmers, sealers and whalers, led to the trading, and the abduction, of Aboriginal women as sexual partners. These practices also increased conflict over women among Aboriginal tribes. This in turn led to a decline in the Aboriginal population. Historian Lyndall Ryan records 74 Aboriginal people (almost all women) living with sealers on the Bass Strait islands in the period up to 1835.\n\nBy 1816, kidnapping of Aboriginal children for labour had become widespread. In 1814, Governor Thomas Davey issued a proclamation expressing \"utter indignation and abhorrence\" in regards to the kidnapping of the children and in 1819 Governor William Sorell not only re-issued the proclamation but ordered that those who had been taken without parental consent were to be sent to Hobart and supported at government expense.\nA number of young Aboriginal children were known to be living with settlers. An Irish sealer named Brien spared the life of the baby son of a native woman he had abducted, explaining, \"as (he) had stolen the dam he would keep the cub.\" When the child grew up he became an invaluable assistant to Brien but was considered \"no good\" by his own people as he was brought up to dislike Aboriginal people, whom he considered \"dirty lazy brutes.\" Twenty-six were definitely known (through baptismal records) to have been taken into settlers' homes as infants or very small children, too young to be of service as labourers. Some Aboriginal children were sent to the Orphan School in Hobart.. Lyndall Ryan reports fifty-eight Aboriginal people, of various ages, living with settlers in Tasmania in the period up to 1835.\n\nSome historians argue that European disease did not appear to be a serious factor until after 1829. Other historians including Geoffrey Blainey and Keith Windschuttle, point to introduced disease as the main cause of the destruction of the full-blooded Tasmanian Aboriginal population. Keith Windschuttle argues that while smallpox never reached Tasmania, respiratory diseases such as influenza, pneumonia and tuberculosis and the effects of venereal diseases devastated the Tasmanian Aboriginal population whose long isolation from contact with the mainland compromised their resistance to introduced disease. The work of historian James Bonwick and anthropologist H. Ling Roth, both writing in the 19th century, also point to the significant role of epidemics and infertility without clear attribution of the sources of the diseases as having been introduced through contact with Europeans. Bonwick, however, did note that Tasmanian Aboriginal women were infected with venereal diseases by Europeans. Introduced venereal disease not only directly caused deaths but, more insidiously, left a significant percentage of the population unable to reproduce. Josephine Flood, archaeologist, wrote: \"Venereal disease sterilised and chest complaints – influenza, pneumonia and tuberculosis – killed.\"\n\nBonwick, who lived in Tasmania, recorded a number of reports of the devastating effect of introduced disease including one report by a Doctor Story, a Quaker, who wrote: \"After 1823 the women along with the tribe seemed to have had no children; but why I do not know.\". Later historians have reported that introduced venereal disease caused infertility amongst the Aboriginal Tasmanians. Bonwick also recorded a strong Aboriginal oral tradition of an epidemic even before formal colonisation in 1803. \"Mr Robert Clark, in a letter to me, said: 'I have gleaned from some of the aborigines, now in their graves, that they were more numerous than the white people were aware of, but their numbers were very much thinned by a sudden attack of disease which was general among the entire population previous to the arrival of the English, entire tribes of natives having been swept off in the course of one or two days' illness.'\" Such an epidemic may be linked to contact with sailors or sealers..\n\nHenry Ling Roth, an anthropologist, wrote: \"Calder, who has gone more fully into the particulars of their illnesses, writes as follows ...: 'Their rapid declension after the colony was founded is traceable, as far as our proofs allow us to judge, to the prevalence of epidemic disorders….'\" Roth was referring to James Erskine Calder who took up a post as a surveyor in Tasmania in 1829 and who wrote a number of scholarly papers about the Aboriginal people. \"According to Calder, a rapid and remarkable declension of the numbers of the aborigines had been going on long before the remnants were gathered together on Flinders Island. Whole tribes (some of which Robinson mentions by name as being in existence fifteen or twenty years before he went amongst them, and which probably never had a shot fired at them) had absolutely and entirely vanished. To the causes to which he attributes this strange wasting away ... I think infecundity, produced by the infidelity of the women to their husbands in the early times of the colony, may be safely added ... Robinson always enumerates the sexes of the individuals he took; ... and as a general thing, found scarcely any children amongst them; ... adultness was found to outweigh infancy everywhere in a remarkable degree ...\"\n\nRobinson recorded in his journals a number of comments regarding the Aboriginal Tasmanians' susceptibility to diseases, particularly respiratory diseases. In 1832 he revisited the west coast of Tasmania, far from the settled regions, and wrote: \"The numbers of aborigines along the western coast have been considerably reduced since the time of my last visit [1830]. A mortality has raged amongst them which together with the severity of the season and other causes had rendered the paucity of their number very considerable.\"\n\nBetween 1825 and 1831 a pattern of guerilla warfare by the Aboriginal Tasmanians was identified by the colonists. Rapid pastoral expansion, a depletion of native game and an increase in the colony's population triggered Aboriginal resistance from 1824 onwards when it has been estimated by Lyndall Ryan that 1000 Aboriginal people remained in the settled districts. Whereas settlers and stock keepers had previously provided rations to the Aboriginal people during their seasonal movements across the settled districts, and recognised this practice as some form of payment for trespass and loss of traditional hunting grounds, the new settlers and stock keepers were unwilling to maintain these arrangements and the Aboriginal people began to raid settlers' huts for food.\n\nThe official Government position was that Aboriginal people were blameless for any hostilities, but when Musquito was hanged in 1825, a significant debate was generated which split the colonists along class lines. The \"higher grade\" saw the hanging as a dangerous precedent and argued that Aboriginal people were only defending their land and should not be punished for doing so. The \"lower grade\" of colonists wanted more Aboriginal people hanged to encourage a \"conciliatory line of conduct.\" Governor Arthur sided with the \"lower grade\" and 1825 saw the first official acceptance that Aboriginal people were at least partly to blame for conflict.\n\nIn 1826 the Government gazette, which had formerly reported \"retaliatory actions\" by Aboriginal people, now reported \"acts of atrocity\" and for the first time used the terminology \"Aborigine\" instead of \"native\". A newspaper reported that there were only two solutions to the problem: either they should be \"hunted down like wild beasts and destroyed\" or they should be removed from the settled districts. The colonial Government assigned troops to drive them out. A Royal Proclamation in 1828 established military posts on the boundaries and a further proclamation declared martial law against the Aboriginal people. As it was recognised that there were fixed routes for seasonal migration, Aboriginal people were required to have passes if they needed to cross the settled districts with bounties offered for the capture of those without passes, £5 (around 2010:$1,000) for an adult and £2 for children, a process that often led to organised hunts resulting in deaths. Every dispatch from Governor Arthur to the Secretary of State during this period stressed that in every case where Aboriginal people had been killed it was colonists that initiated hostilities.\n\nThough many Aboriginal deaths went unrecorded, the Cape Grim massacre in 1828 demonstrates the level of frontier violence towards Aboriginal Tasmanians.\n\nThe Black War of 1828–32 and the Black Line of 1830 were turning points in the relationship with European settlers. Even though many of the Aboriginal people managed to avoid capture during these events, they were shaken by the size of the campaigns against them, and this brought them to a position whereby they were willing to surrender to Robinson and move to Flinders Island.\n\nEuropeans killed and Aborigines captured may be considered as reasonably accurate. The figures for tribal people shot is likely to be a substantial undercount.\nIn late 1831 Robinson brought the first 51 Aboriginals to a settlement on Flinders Island named The Lagoons, which turned out to be inadequate as it was exposed to gales, had little water and no land suitable for cultivation.\nSupplies to the settlement were inadequate and if sealers had not supplied potatoes, the Aboriginal people would have starved. The Europeans were living on oatmeal and potatoes while the Aboriginal people, who detested oatmeal and refused to eat it, survived on potatoes and rice supplemented by mutton birds they caught. Within months 31 Aboriginal people had died. They were lodged at night in shelters or \"breakwinds.\" These \"breakwinds\" were thatched roofs sloping to the ground, with an opening at the top to let out the smoke, and closed at the ends, with the exception of a doorway. They were twenty feet long by ten feet wide. In each of these from twenty to thirty blacks were lodged ... To savages accustomed to sleep naked in the open air beneath the rudest shelter, the change to close and heated dwellings tended to make them susceptible, as they had never been in their wild state, to chills from atmospheric changes, and was only too well calculated to induce those severe pulmonary diseases which were destined to prove so fatal to them. The same may be said of the use of clothes ... At the settlement they were compelled to wear clothes, which they threw off when heated or when they found them troublesome, and when wetted by rain allowed them to dry on their bodies. In the case of Tasmanians, as with other wild tribes accustomed to go naked, the use of clothes had a most mischievous effect on their health.\nBy January 1832 a further 44 captured Aboriginals had arrived and conflicts arose between the tribal groups. To defuse the situation, Sergeant Wight took the Big River group to Green island, where they were abandoned and he later decided to move the rest to Green Island as well. Two weeks later Robinson arrived with Lieutenant Darling, the new commander for the station, and moved the Aboriginal people back to The Lagoons. Darling ensured a supply of plentiful food and permitted \"hunting excursions.\" In October 1832, it was decided to build a new camp with better buildings (wattle and daub) at a more suitable location, Pea Jacket Point. Pea Jacket Point was renamed Civilisation Point but became more commonly known as Wybalenna, which in the Ben Lomond language meant \"Blackman's Houses\".\n\nRobinson befriended Truganini, learned some of the local language and in 1833 managed to persuade the remaining 154 \"full-blooded\" people to move to the new settlement on Flinders Island, where he promised a modern and comfortable environment, and that they would be returned to their former homes on the Tasmanian mainland as soon as possible. At the Wybalenna Aboriginal establishment on Flinders Island, described by historian Henry Reynolds as the \"best equipped and most lavishly staffed Aboriginal institution in the Australian colonies in the nineteenth century\", they were provided with housing, clothing, rations of food, the services of a doctor and educational facilities. Convicts were assigned to build housing and do most of the work at the settlement including the growing of food in the vegetable gardens. After arrival, all Aboriginal children aged between six and 15 years were removed from their families to be brought up by the storekeeper and a lay preacher. The Aboriginal people were free to roam the island and were often absent from the settlement for extended periods on hunting trips as the rations supplied turned out to be inadequate. By 1835 the living conditions had deteriorated to the extent that in October Robinson personally took charge of Wybalenna, organising better food and improving the housing. However, of the 220 who arrived with Robinson, most died in the following 14 years from introduced disease and inadequate shelter. As a result of their loss of freedom, the birth rate was extremely low and few children survived infancy.\n\nIn 1839, Governor Franklin appointed a board to inquire into the conditions at Wybalenna that rejected Robinson's claims regarding improved living conditions and found the settlement to be a failure. The report was never released and the government continued to promote Wybalenna as a success in the treatment of Aboriginal people.\nIn March 1847 six Aboriginals at Wybalenna presented a petition to Queen Victoria, the first petition to a reigning monarch from any Aboriginal group in Australia, requesting that the promises made to them be honoured.\nIn October 1847, the 47 survivors were transferred to their final settlement at Oyster Cove station.. Only 44 survived the trip (11 couples, 12 single men and 10 children) and the children were immediately sent to the orphan school in Hobart. Although the housing and food was better than Wybalenna, the station was a former convict station that had been abandoned earlier that year due to health issues as it was located on inadequately drained mudflats. According to the guards, the Aboriginal people developed \"too much independence\" by trying to continue their culture which they considered \"recklessness\" and \"rank ingratitude.\" Their numbers continued to diminish, being estimated in 1859 at around a dozen and, by 1869, there was only one, who died in 1876.\n\nCommenting in 1899 on Robinson's claims of success, anthropologist Henry Ling Roth wrote:While Robinson and others were doing their best to make them into a civilised people, the poor blacks had given up the struggle, and were solving the difficult problem by dying. The very efforts made for their welfare only served to hasten on their inevitable doom. The white man's civilisation proved scarcely less fatal than the white man's musket.\n\nThe Oyster Cove people attracted contemporaneous international scientific interest from the 1860s onwards, with many museums claiming body parts for their collections. Scientists were interested in studying Aboriginal Tasmanians from a physical anthropology perspective, hoping to gain insights into the field of paleoanthropology. For these reasons, they were interested in individual Aboriginal body parts and whole skeletons.\n\nTasmanian Aboriginal skulls were particularly sought internationally for studies into craniofacial anthropometry. Truganini herself entertained fears that her body might be exploited after her death and two years after her death her body was exhumed and sent to Melbourne for scientific study. Her skeleton was then put up for public display in the Tasmanian Museum until 1947, and was only lay to rest, by cremation, in 1976. Another case was the removal of the skull and scrotum — for a tobacco pouch — of William Lanne, known as King Billy, on his death in 1869.\n\nHowever, many of these skeletons were obtained from \"aboriginal mummies\" from graves or bodies of the murdered. Amalie Dietrich for example became famous for delivering such specimens.\n\nAboriginal people have considered the dispersal of body parts as being disrespectful, as a common aspect within Aboriginal belief systems is that a soul can only be at rest when laid in its homeland.\n\nBody parts and ornaments are still being returned from collections today, with the Royal College of Surgeons of England returning samples of Truganini's skin and hair (in 2002); and the British Museum returning ashes to two descendants in 2007.\n\nDuring the 20th century, the absence of Aboriginal people of solely indigenous ancestry, and a general unawareness of the surviving populations, meant many non-Aboriginals assumed they were extinct, after the death of Truganini in 1876. Since the mid-1970s Tasmanian Aboriginal activists such as Michael Mansell have sought to broaden awareness and identification of Aboriginal descent.\n\nA dispute exists within the Tasmanian Aboriginal community, however, over what constitutes Aboriginality. Since splitting from the Lia Pootah in 1996, the Palawa minority were given the power to decide who is of Tasmanian Aboriginal descent at the state level (entitlement to government Aboriginal services). Palawa recognise only descendants of the Bass Strait Island community as Aboriginal and do not consider as Aboriginal the Lia Pootah, who claim descent, based on oral traditions, from Tasmanian mainland Aboriginal communities. The Lia Pootah feel that the Palawa controlled Tasmanian Aboriginal Centre does not represent them politically.\nSince 2007 there have been initiatives to introduce DNA testing to establish family history in descendant subgroups. This is strongly opposed by the Palawa and has drawn an angry reaction from some quarters, as some have claimed \"spiritual connection\" with aboriginality distinct from, but not as important as the existence of a genetic link. The Lia Pootah object to the current test used to prove Aboriginality as they believe it favours the Palawa, a DNA test would circumvent barriers to Lia Pootah recognition, or disprove their claims to Aboriginality.\n\nIn April 2000, the Tasmanian Government \"Legislative Council Select Committee on Aboriginal Lands\" discussed the difficulty of determining Aboriginality based on oral traditions. An example given by Prof. Cassandra Pybus was the claim by the Huon and Channel Aboriginal people who had an oral history of descent from two Indigenous women. Research found that both were non-indigenous convict women.\n\nThe Tasmanian Palawa Aboriginal community is making an effort to reconstruct and reintroduce a Tasmanian language, called palawa kani out of the various records on Tasmanian languages. Other Tasmanian aboriginal communities use words from traditional Tasmanian languages, according to the language area they were born or live in.\n\nThe social organisation of Aboriginal Tasmanians had at least two hierarchies: the domestic unit or family group and the social unit or clan - which had a self-defining name with 40 to 50 people. It is contentious whether there was a larger political organisation, hitherto described as a \"tribe\" in the literature (and by colonial observers), as there is no evidence in the historical literature of larger political entities above that of the clan. Robinson, who gathered ethnographic data in the early 1800s, described aboriginal political groups at the clan level only. Nevertheless, clans that shared a geographic region and language group are now usually classified by modern ethnographers, and the Palawa, as a nation.\n\nEstimates made of the combined population of the Aboriginal people of Tasmania, before European arrival in Tasmania, are in the range of 3,000 to 15,000 people. Genetic studies have suggested much higher figures which is supported by oral traditions that Aboriginal people were \"more numerous than the white people were aware of\" but that their population had been greatly reduced by a sudden outbreak of disease before 1803. It is speculated that early contacts with sealers before colonisation had resulted in an epidemic. Using archaeological evidence, Stockton (I983:68) estimated 3,000 to 6,000 for the northern half of the west coast alone, or up to six times the commonly accepted estimate, however he later revised this to 3,000 to 5,000 for the entire island, based on historical sources. The low rate of genetic drift indicates that Stockton's original maximum estimate is likely the lower boundary and, while not indicated by the archaeological record, a population as high as 100,000 can \"not be rejected out of hand\". This is supported by carrying capacity data indicating greater resource productivity in Tasmania than the mainland.\n\nThe Aboriginal Tasmanians were primarily nomadic people who lived in adjoining territories, moving based on seasonal changes in food supplies such as seafood, land mammals and native vegetables and berries. They socialised, intermarried and fought \"wars\" against other clans.\n\nAccording to Ryan, the population of Tasmania was aligned into nine nations composed of six to fifteen clans each, with each clan comprising two to six extended family units who were relations. Individual clans ranged over a defined nation boundary with elaborate rites of entry required of visitors.\n\nThere were more than 60 clans before European colonisation, although only 48 have been located and associated with particular territories.\nThe location and migratory patterns discussed below come from the work of Jones (cited in Tindale). Ryan used Jones' work in her seminal history of Tasmanian Aboriginals but Taylor discusses in his thesis how Jones' original work is uncited and possibly conjectural. Moreover, Jones published his work without recourse to Plomley's later extensive descriptions of Tasmanian Aboriginal clan groups. Given this, the clan boundaries and nomadic patterns discussed below should be taken with caution unless referenced from primary documents.\n\nThe Paredarerme was estimated to be the largest Tasmanian nation with ten clans totalling 700 to 800 people. The members of the Paredarerme nation had good relations with the Big River nation, with large congregations at favoured hunting sites inland and at the coast. Relations with the North Midlands nation were mostly hostile, and evidence suggests that the Douglas-Apsley region may have been a dangerous borderland rarely visited (Ferguson 1986 pg22). Generally, the clans of the Paredarerme ranged inland to the High Country for spring and summer and returned to the coast for autumn and winter, but not all people left their territory each year with some deciding to stay by the coast. Migrations provided a varied diet with plentiful seafood, seals and birds on the coast, and good hunting for kangaroos, wallabies and possums inland. The High Country also provided opportunities to trade for ochre with the North-west and North people, and to harvest intoxicating gum from \"Eucalyptus gunnii\", found only on the plateau. The key determinant of camp sites was topography. The majority of camps were along river valleys, adjacent north facing hill slopes and on gentle slopes bordering a forest or marsh (Brown 1986).\nThe North East nation consisted of seven clans totalling around 500 people. They had good relations with the Ben Lomond nation - granted seasonal access to the resources of the north-east coast.\nThe Northern nation consisted of four clans totalling 200–300 people. Their country contained the most important ochre mines in Tasmania, accessed by well defined roads kept open by firing. They traded the ochre with nearby clanspeople. They would spend part of the year in the country of the North West nation to hunt seals and collect shells from Robbins Island for necklaces. In return, the North West nation had free access to the ochre mines Relatively isolated, the region was first explored by Europeans in 1824 with the Van Diemen's Land Company being given a grant of , which included the greater part of the clan hunting grounds. The settlement was a failure, with the inland areas described as \"wet, cold and soggy\", while the coastal region was difficult to clear, as Superintendent Henry Hellyer noted the \"forest [was] altogether unlike anything I have seen in the Island\". However, in 1827 a port was established at Emu Bay. In 1828 Tarerenorerer (Eng:Walyer), a woman who had escaped from sealers, became the leader of the Emu Bay people and attacked the settlers with stolen weapons, the first recorded use of muskets by Aboriginal people.\nThe Big River nation numbered 400 – 500 people consisting of five clans. Little is known of their seasonal movements although it is believed that four of the five clans moved through Oyster Bay territory along the Derwent River to reach their coastal camps near Pitt Water. The Oyster Bay People had reciprocal movement rights through Big River territory.\nThe North Midlands nation occupied the Midland plains, a major geographical area formed in a horst and graben valley which was also subject to previous major freshwater lacustrine inundation.\nThe result being a relatively flat and fertile landscape that supported a large biomass and, thus, a major food source for the aboriginal people.\nThe North Midlands nation is likely to have consisted of several clans but there are three accepted major clan divisions described in the ethnographic literature today. The total population of the North Midlands nation has been estimated to be between 300 and 500 and, although migratory, the archeological and historical record infers seasonal residency in locations adjacent to permanent water sources in the Midlands valley.\n\nThe North Midlands nation was circumscribed by the geographical constraints of the Midlands valley. To the west the nation was bounded by the escarpment of the Great Western Tiers, to the north-east the boundaries are less certain; with the eastern Tamar appearing to have been occupied by the Letteremairrener as far east as Piper's River: where the Poremairrenerner clan of the North-east nation were resident.\nThe occupation of the western Tamar is open to dispute - the ethnographic record suggests that it was the province of the Pallitorre and Parnillerpanner clans of the North nation; or the Leterrmairrener; or a hitherto unnamed clan of the North Midlands nation. It is likely that the west Tamar valley, or the Meander river valley formed the NNW boundaries of the North Midlands nation - with the arc of highlands formed by Cluan Tier and Dry's Bluff forming the nor-western extremity of their country.\nTo the east the natural boundary was the South-Esk River and, running northwards, the high tier of Mts Barrow, Arthur and Tippogoree Hills: beyond which lay the North-east nation. Running south past the eastern bend of the South-Esk it appears that the North Midlands Nation held land to some extent along the south bank of the Esk, at least as far as Avoca and possibly as far as the natural boundary of the St Pauls River, beyond which the Oyster Bay nation were resident.\nTo the south their country was constrained by the uplands beyond Tunbridge, as the plains narrow towards Big River and Oyster Bay country.\n\nThe North Midlands language is classified as \"mairremenner\" and was spoken by the Ben Lomond and North-east nations and also the Luggermairrenerpairer clan of the Central Highlands. This language group is likely to be a derivation of three other Tasmanian languages.\n\nThree major national divisions are generally ascribed to the North Midlands nation although it is llkely that more clans existed and Ryan (2012) asserts the possibility of another two clan territories. What is known of the composition of the North Midlands nation derives from settler description (who ascribed simple tribal divisions based upon locality), direct attribution from contemporary Tasmanian Aborigines (recorded by Robinson collated by Plomley) and later research by Rhys Jones. From this we can be certain that there were three major clan divisions, described by colonials as the Port Dalrymple Tribe (Leterrermairrener Clan), at the Tamar River; Pennyroyal Creek Tribe (Panninher), at Norfolk Plains; and the Stony Creek Tribe (Tyrrernotepanner), at Campbell Town.\n\nThe Letteremairrener (Letter-ramare-ru-nah) Clan occupied country from Low Head to modern day Launceston. In colonial times reports were made of clusters of huts, up to ten in number, in the Tamar valley and there are extensive archeological remains of occupation on both sides of the Tamar river and north coastal country.\n\nLittle is recorded of the toponymy of their country but some local placenames have survived and are likely to be of the \"Nara\" language group.\n\nLittle is known of specific sites of significance to the Letteremairrener, but modern day Palawa assert the significance of the Cataract Gorge\nas a place of ceremony and significance. Certainly, in 1847, when a surviving aboriginal \"chief\" was temporarily returned to Launceston from exile in Wybalenna, he requested to be taken to the Cataract Gorge and was described as being jubilant at return to the Gorge, followed with apparent lamentation at what had been lost to him.\nThere are no recorded significant archeological remains in the Gorge precinct, although the area was subject to significant seasonal flooding before damming.\n\nThe Letteremairrener had been recorded to have specific meeting places at Paterson's Plains (near modern-day St Leonards) and groups as large as 150 had been recorded in colonial times in this vicinity. The Clan country overlapped with that of the Panninher and Tyrrernotepanner and it is likely that, at times, the clans shared resources across clan borders.\n\nThe Letteremairrener were among the first Tasmanian Aboriginals to be affected by the impact of colonisation by the British as colonial occupation commenced at Port Dalrymple and progressed to Launceston, with settlers progressively occupying land up the Tamar valley.\nBy the early 1800s the Letteremairrener had been involved in skirmishes with exploratory parties of colonials, in the second decade of that century they had reached some accommodation with the interlopers; and were observed practicing spear throwing near present-day Paterson Barracks and watching colonial women wash clothes at Cataract Gorge.\nBetween 1811 and 1827 several aboginal children were baptised in Launceston, either abducted or the progeny of settler/aboriginal liaison.\nBy 1830 the people of the Letteremairenner had largely disappeared from their homeland and the survivors were waging a desperate guerrilla war with colonial British, living a fringe existence in Launceston or living life on the margin at the peripheries of their traditional land.\nBy 1837 the Letteremairrenner had disappeared completely from the Tamar Valley and would eventually die in the squalor of Wybalenna or Oyster Cove.\n\nThe Panninher (parn-in-her)were known to colonial people as the Penny Royal Creek Tribe, named eponymously from the river that comes off the Western Tiers south of Drys Bluff (which is now called the Liffey River). The Panninher named the Liffey river \"tellerpanger\" and Drys Bluff, the mountain rearing above their homeland, was \"taytitkekitheker\". Their territory broadly covered the north plains of the midlands from the west bank of the Tamar River across to what is now Evandale and terminating at the Tyerrernotepanner country around modern day Conara.\n\nThe Panninher also freely moved from the Tamar to the central highlands and brokered trade in ochre from the Toolumbunner mine to neighbouring clans.\nRobinson describes the aboriginal road used by the Panninher from their home up to the Central Highlands, via the gully of the Liffey river, and the South road along the base of the Western Tiers - up the Lake River to modern day Interlaken.\n\nWhilst sites of ritual significance to the Panninher are not known, the Panninher were known to frequent Native Point, on the South Esk River between modern day Perth and Evandale, where flint quarries were located and clans met for celebration. Here local historians believe that cemetery (hollowed) trees were used to inter the dead.\nSimilarly, Reibey's Ford, near modern-day Hadspen, was a known \"resort of the natives\" and they named this site \"moorronnoe\". Archaeological evidence shows also indicates signs of continuous occupation at permanent lagoons near Cleveland, which was known historically as a clan meeting place.\n\nThe Panninher were affected early by settlement around Norfolk Plains and aggressive assertion of property rights by settlers at first hindered their hunting and migration through their country and, subsequently, led to outright hostility from both parties. Captain Ritchie, an early settler near Perth, tolerated, or fostered, forays by his assigned men against the Panninher and this culminated in a massacre by settlers near modern-day Cressy.\nThe Panninher, or their neighbouring clansmen, retaliated in various attacks against settlers at Western Lagoon and in remote country up the Lake River, reaching a peak in aggression against the colonial interlopers by 1827.\nIn 1831 a war party of \"100 or 150 stout men\" attacked settlers at the base of the Western Tiers and up the Lake River but it is unclear whether this was the action of the Panninher alone or a confederation of warriors from remnant North Tasmanian nations. The colonial settlers made little discrimination between Panninher and members of the \"Stony Creek Tribe\" and it is likely that the North Midlands nation had disintegrated and the amalgamated band was known under the overarching name of \"Stony Creek Tribe\" by this time. This notwithstanding, it seems that the Panninher were resourceful enough to survive in some numbers until late in the Black War.\n\nThe Tyerrernotepanner (Chera-noti-pana) were known to colonial people as the Stony Creek Tribe, named eponymously from the small southern tributary of the South Esk at Llewellyn, west of modern-day Avoca.\n\nThe clan Tyerrernotepanner were centred at Campbell Town and were one of up to four clans in the south central Midlands area.\nNevertheless, this clan name is now used as a general term for all aboriginal peoples of this region. The ethnographic and archaeological evidence describes areas of significance to the south central Midlands clans: modern day Lake Leake, Tooms Lake, Windfalls farm, Mt Morriston, Ross township and the lacustrine regions of the midlands all show evidence of tool knapping, middens and records of hut construction consistent with occupation.\n\nLake Leake (previously Kearney's Bogs), Campbell Town, Ellinthorpe Plains (near modern day Auburn) and Tooms Lake were described as \"resorts of the natives\" by settlers and showed substantial evidence of seasonal occupation. Furthermore, several small lagoons in the midlands area all show substantial archeological evidence of regular occupation consistent with tool-making and semi-nomadic use. Aboriginal roads, \"markenner\", are described as passing up the Eastern Tiers to Swanport, up the Western Tier to Interlaken and up the Lake River to Woods Lake and thence to the Central Highlands.\n\nThe clan divisions of the southern central Midlands are suggested below. Caution must be exercised as to the provenance of the names and the complete accuracy of attributing discrete geographical regions.\n\nThe Tyerrernotepanner are described consistently in contemporary records as a \"fierce tribe\" and the records describe consistent and concerted violence by the Tyerrernotepanner during the Black War. The Tyeerrernotepanner, along with clansmen from other remnant tribes, conducted raids across the midlands during the Black War and, until \"conciliated\" by Robinson, were the subject of fearful reminiscence by colonial people.\nThe famed aboriginal leader Umarrah was a member of this clan and he was noted for his aggression and sustained campaign against European interlopers - although he was raised by colonials himself.\nThe Ben Lomond nation consisted of at least three clans totalling 150–200 people. They occupied the 260 km2 of country surrounding the Ben Lomond plateau. Three clan names are known but their locations are somewhat conjectural - the clans were recorded as Plangermaireener, Plindermairhemener and Tonenerweenerlarmenne.\n\nThe Plangermaireener clan is recorded as variously inhabiting the south-east aspect of the Ben Lomond region and also has been associated with the Oyster Bay or Cape Portland Clans to the east - indeed the chief Mannalargenna is variously described as a chief of the Oyster Bay, Cape Portland and Ben Lomond nations.\nPlangermaireener is also used as a blanket term for the Ben Lomond nation, which reflects the suffix \"mairreener\"; meaning \"people\".\n\nThe Plindermairhemener are recorded in association with the south and south-western aspects of the region and the location of the Tonenerweenerlarmenne is uncertain, but were probably centred in the remaining Ben Lomond nation territory from White Hills to the headwaters of the North and South-Esk rivers or the upper South-Esk Valley.\nThis notwithstanding, the Palawa were a nomadic people and likely occupied these lands seasonally.\n\nThe Ben Lomond nation is sometimes described as the Ben Lomond/Pennyroyal Creek nation from an entry in Robinson's journal:\n'(Mannalargenna) ... said that \"the smoke...was that of the Ben Lomond-Pennyroyal Creek natives\"'\n\nThis is a misnomer, as the Pennyroyal Creek was the original European name for the Liffey River and the Pennyroyal Creek Tribe was the contemporary name of the Panninher Clan of the North Midlands nation.\nMannalargenna would be familiar with the clans neighbouring his own traditional country and could be relied upon to report accurately the composition of the clanspeople in question. It is plausible that when Robinson was writing in 1830 the remnant peoples of the Ben Lomond nation had federated with that of the Panninher and this was the provenance of the conjoined title.\n\nThe clans of the Ben Lomond nation were nomadic and the Aborigines hunted along the valleys of the South Esk and North Esk rivers, their tributaries and the highlands to the northeast; as well as making forays to the plateau in summer. There are records of aboriginal huts or dwellings around the foothills of Stacks Bluff and around the headwaters of the South Esk River near modern-day Mathinna. On the plateau there is evidence of artifacts around Lake Youl that suggests regular occupation of this site by aborigines after the last ice age. The clans of the Ben Lomond nation had close enough relationships with neighbouring clans of the East Coast and North Midlands that they enjoyed seasonal foraging rights to these adjoining territories. John Batman describes the seasonal movement of the Plangermaireener in his diary of May 1830:\n\n\"...the tribe travels around Ben Lomond from South Esk to North Esk - and from thence to St. Patricks Head - Georges Bay and round the East Coast\"\n\nBatman further describes the relationship between the clans of the Ben Lomond nation and the North East nation:\n\n\"...there is (sic) two tribes... they (the 'chiefs' ) are upon friendly terms and often stop and meet and talk 10 days together...\"\nThe North West nation numbered between 400 and 600 people at time of contact with Europeans and had at least eight clans. They had good relations with the North nation, who were allowed access to the resources of the north-west coast. First explored by Europeans in 1824, the region was considered inhospitable and only lightly settled, although it suffered a high rate of Aboriginal dispossession and killings.\n\nRisdon Cove, the first Tasmanian settlement, was located in south-east country. There is eyewitness evidence that the South East nation may have consisted of up to ten clans, totalling around 500 people. However, only four groups totalling 160–200 people were officially recorded as the main source by Robinson, whose journals begin in 1829. By this time, Europeans had settled in most of the South East tribe's country, with the country dispossessed and food resources depleted. Their country contained the most important silcrete, chert and quartzite mines in Tasmania.\nThe South East people had a hostile relationship with the Oyster Bay people whom they frequently raided, often to kidnap women.\nTruganini was a Nuenonne from Bruny Island, which they called \"Lunawanna-Alonnah\". The first two European towns built on the island were named Lunawanna and Alonnah, and most of the island's landmarks are named after Nuenonne people. The island was the source of the sandstone used to build many of Melbourne's buildings, such as the Post Office and Parliament House.\nTasmanian aboriginal culture is one of the world's most enduring. Aboriginal culture was disrupted severely in the 19th century after dispossession of land and incarceration of aboriginal people on Wybalenna and Oyster Cove. Much traditional knowledge has irrevocably disappeared and what remains has been nurtured over several generations starting with the aboriginal wives of sealers on the Furneaux Islands.\n\nBut, as the aboriginal writer Greg Lehman states, \"aboriginal culture (is not) past tense.\" Aboriginal people, in a variety of forms, continue to express their culture in unique ways - expressing themes that lament the past but also celebrate endurance and continuity of culture into the future.\n\nContemporary accounts of the ceremonial and cultural life of the Tasmanian Aboriginal people are very limited. There were no observers trained in the social sciences after the French expeditions in the 18th century had made formal study of Tasmanian Aboriginal culture. Moreover, those who wrote most comprehensively of aboriginal life in the 19th century did so after colonial contact, and the ensuing violence and dislocation, had irrevocably altered traditional aboriginal culture. Those that most closely observed aboriginal cultural practices either did not write accounts of what they observed or, if they did, observed culture through the ethnocentric lens of religious and proselytising 19th century European men.\n\nThe mythology of the Aboriginal Tasmanians appears to be complex and possibly specific to each clan group. One of their creation myths refers to two creator deities, Moinee and Droemerdene; the children of Parnuen, the sun, and Vena, the moon.\n\nMoinee appears as the primeval creator, forming the land and rivers of Tasmania and fashioning the first man, Parlevar - embodied from a spirit residing in the ground. This form was similar to a kangaroo and Aboriginal people consequently take the kangaroo as a totem. Similarly, Moinee then created the kangaroo, who emerged, like the first man, from the soil.\n\nDroemerdene appears as the star Canopus who helped the first men to change from their kangaroo-like form. He removed their tails and fashioned their knee joints \"so that they could rest\" and thus man achieved differentiation form the kangaroo.\n\nMoinee fought with his brother Droemerdene, and many \"devils\", after Droemerdene changed the shape of the first men and Moinee was finally hurled to his death from the sky to take form as a standing stone at Cox Bight. Droemerdene subsequently fell into the sea at Louisa Bay.\nToogee Low (Port Davey) remained in mythology as a residence of many \"devils\".\n\nAlternatively, Tasmanian Aboriginal mythology also records in their oral history that the first men emigrated by land from a far off country and the land was subsequently flooded - an echo of the Tasmanian people's migration from mainland Australia to (then) peninsular Tasmania, and the submergence of the land bridge after the last ice age.\n\nLittle has been recorded of traditional Tasmanian Aboriginal spiritual life. Colonial British recorded that Aboriginal people describe topographical features, such as valleys and caves, as being inhabited by spiritual entities recorded by contemporaries as \"sprites\". Furthermore, Robinson recorded members of some clans as having animistic regard for certain species of tree within their domain.\nRobinson recorded several discussions regarding spiritual entities that his companions describe as having agency or a source of interpretive power to aid their navigation of their physical world. The Tasmanian Aboriginal people would describe these entities as \"devils\" and related that these spiritual beings as walking alongside aboriginal people \"carrying a torch but could not be seen\".\n\nMannarlargenna, in particular, described consulting his \"devil\" which seems to be a resident personal spirituality that provided prognostic or oracular powers.\nThe \"devil\" might also be used to describe malevolent spiritual entities in the Aboriginal cosmos.\n\nAboriginal people recounted that there was a prime malevolent spirit called \"rageowrapper\", who appeared as a large black (Aboriginal?) man and is associated with the darkness. \"rageowrapper\" might appear borne on a strong wind or be the source of severe illness\nthis malign spirit might be released from a sick individual by cutting the skin to \"let him out\".\n\nSeveral researchers assert that there was belief in a kind of manichean cosmos with a \"good\" and \"bad\" spirit - delineated by day and night - although this may reflect the cultural bias of the observers. Milligan (a contemporary at Wyballenna) described a creator spirit called \"tiggana marrabona\" - translating as \"twilight man\" but as referred to above there are a number of supernatural beings associated with creation.\n\nEtymological study of Milligan's ethnographic data describes a pantheon of spiritual beings associated with environmental or supernatural phenomena:\n\n\nTraditional Aboriginal Tasmanians also related beliefs of a spiritual afterlife. One such belief, related by an aboriginal person from the west coastal nation, was that the spirit of the dead travelled to a place over the sea: to the far north-west, called \"Moo-ai\". This possibly reflects the ancestral memory of the \"Mara\" language group, resident in Western Tasmania, who are believed to have settled Tasmania from the Warrnambool region in modern day Victoria.\nbut other Tasmanians state that after death their spirits would have a post-corporeal existence in their traditional lands. Other reference is made to an Island of the Dead \"tini drini\", described as \"an island in Bass Strait\" where the dead would be reincarnated or \"jump up white men\". White here does not refer to european, but rather the skeletal or phantasmic nature of returned dead.\n\nThe dead might be cremated or interred in a hollow tree or rock grave, dependant on clan custom\nAboriginal people were also recorded to keep bones of dead people as talismans or amulets. The bones might be worn on a kangaroo sinew string bare around the neck or enclosed in a kangaroo skin bag.\n\nTraditional Tasmanian Aboriginals saw the night sky as residence of creator spirits (see above) and also describe constellations that represent tribal life; such as figures of fighting men and courting couples.\n\nThe Tasmanian Aboriginal people preferred to store coals in wrapped bark for the purpose of starting fires. This was likely due to the difficulty in creating fire in Tasmania's wet maritime climate. When this source of flame was extinguished they would seek to gain fire from neighbouring hearths or clans but also were likely to have created fire by friction methods and possibly by mineral percussion\nThe Tasmanian Aboriginals extensively employed fire for cooking, warmth, tool hardening and clearing vegetation to encourage and control macropod herds.\n\nApproximately 4,000 years ago, the Aboriginal Tasmanians largely dropped scaled fish from their diet, and began eating more land mammals, such as possums, kangaroos, and wallabies. Aboriginal Tasmanians had employed bone tools, but it appears that they switched from worked bone tools to sharpened stone tools, as the effort to make bone tools began to exceed the benefit they provided. The significance of the disappearance of bone tools (believed to have been primarily used for fishing related activities) and fish in the diet is heavily debated. Some argue that it is evidence of a maladaptive society, while others argue that the change was economic, as large areas of scrub at that time were changing to grassland, providing substantially increased food resources. Fish were never a large part of the diet, ranking behind shellfish and seals, and with more resources available, the cost/benefit ratio of fishing may have become too high.\nArchaeological evidence indicates that around the time these changes took place, the Tasmanian people began expanding their territories, a process that was still continuing when Europeans arrived.\n\nBasket making is a traditional craft which has been carried through into contemporary art. Baskets had many uses, including carrying food, women's and men's tools, shells, ochre, and eating utensils. Basket-like carriers were made from plant materials, kelp, or animal skin. The kelp baskets or carriers were used mainly to carry water and as drinking vessels.\n\nPlants were carefully selected to produce strong, thin, narrow strips of fibre of suitable length for basket making.\n\nSeveral different species of plant were used, including white flag iris, blue flax lily, rush and sag, some of which are still used by contemporary basket makers, and sometimes shells are added for ornamental expression.\n\nMaking necklaces from shells is a significant cultural tradition among Tasmanian Aboriginal women.\nNecklaces were used for adornment, as gifts and tokens of honour, and as trading objects. Dating back at least 2,600 years, necklace-making is one of the few Palawa traditions that has remained intact and has continued without interruption since before European settlement.\nA number of shell necklaces are held in the collection of the National Museum of Australia.\n\nOchre is an important cultural resource for the Tasmanian Aboriginal community. Traditionally, Aboriginal women had the exclusive role of obtaining ochre. Today, many Tasmanian Aboriginal men continue to respect the traditional cultural custom by obtaining ochre from women only.\n\nTasmanian ochre ranges in colour from white through yellow to red. It has many uses, including ceremonial body marking, colouring wood craft products, tie-dyeing and various other uses in crafts and arts. Tasmanian Aborigines consider ochre to be a special cultural resource.\n\nTraditionally, Aboriginal people have sourced ochre from sites throughout Tasmania. The most celebrated site is Toolumbunner in the Gog Range in NW Tasmania. This site lies in the traditional lands of the Pallitorre Clan and was a significant site of ochre mining, tribal meeting, celebration and trading.\n\nColonial settlers describe various ceremonies enacted by aboriginal people. Tasmanians would gather for ceremony that contemporaries called \"corobery\", although that is a mainland aboriginal word. Dance and singing was a feature of these ceremonies and dance would encompass reenactment of traditional tales and also recent events.\nRobinson describes reenactment of a horseman hunting an aboriginal person via the display of the \"horse-dance\" as well as the sensual \"devil-dance\" performed by women form the Furneaux islands\n\nBattle and funeral was also the time for painting the body with ochre or black paint. The important ceremonial meaning of painting the body can be inferred by record of discussion at the funeral for the Aboriginal man \"Robert\", in Launceston, where an Aboriginal mourner was asked by a settler why he painted his body for the funeral and he replied \"what do you wear fine clothes for?\"\n\nContemporary colonial settlers relate several examples of pictorial art drawn on the insides of huts or on remnants of discarded paper. These designs are generally circular or spiral motifs that represent celestial bodies or figures of clans-people. Robinson related that one design in an aboriginal hut was very accurately drawn and was created via the use of a kind of wooden compass.\n\nThe most enduring art form left by Tasmanians are petroglyphs, or rock art. The most elaborate site is at Premighana on the West Coast, although other significant sites exist at the Bluff in Devonport and at Greenes Creek. Smaller sites include the cupules at \"meenamatta\" Blue Tier and isolated circle motifs at Trial Harbour.\n\nAboriginal people inhabited Tasmania's South-west from the last glacial maximum and hand stencils and ochre smears are found in several caves, the oldest of which is dated to 10000 years ago.\nTasmanian Aboriginal people are asserting their identity and culture through the visual arts. The art expresses the Aboriginal viewpoint on colonial history, race relations and identity. Themes consistent in modern Tasmanian Aboriginal art are loss, kinship, narratives of dispossession but also survival. The art is modern, using textiles, sculpture and photography but often incorporates ancient motifs and techniques such as shell necklaces and practical artifacts.\n\nPhotographer Ricky Maynard has had his work exhibited internationally and his documentary style \"brings to light the stories of indigenous people where they have previously been absent or distorted. His photographs mark historical sites, events and figures of great significance to Tasmanian and mainland Aboriginal people, and speak to their struggle in a subtle, poetic, and powerful way.\"\n\nModern painting in Tasmania is starting to use techniques shared by indigenous art in mainland Australia but incorporating traditional Tasmanian motifs, such as spirals and celestial representation.\nThis shows that, like mainland Australia, indigenous art is dynamic and evolving from established post-colonial preconceptions.\n\nTasmanian Aboriginal women have traditionally collected \"Maireener\" shells to fashion necklaces and bracelets.\nThis practice continues by Aboriginal women whose families survived on the Furneaux Islands, handed down by elder women to maintain an important link with traditional lifestyle.\nLate in the nineteenth century a number of women aimed to keep this part of their traditional culture alive in order to allow their daughters and granddaughters to participate in their cultural heritage. Today, there are only a few Tasmanian Aboriginal women who maintain this art, but they continue to hand down their knowledge and skills to younger women in their community. Shell necklace manufacture continues to maintain links with the past but is expressed as a modern art form.\n\nThe earliest publication attributed to Tasmanian authors, predating the journalism of David Unaipon by a century, was \"The Aboriginal/Flinders Island Chronicle\", written between September 1836 and December 1837, though it is unclear to what degree its composition was influenced by \"The Commandant\", George Robinson.\n\nTasmanian Aboriginal authors in the past century have written history, poetry, essays and fiction. Authors such as Ida West have written autobiographies recounting their experiences growing up within white society; Phyllis Pitchford, Errol West and Jim Everett have written poetry, while Everett and Greg Lehman have explored their tradition as essayists.\n\nIn June 2005, the Tasmanian Legislative Council introduced an innovated definition of aboriginality into the Aboriginal Lands Act.\nThe bill was passed to allow Aboriginal Lands Council elections to commence, after uncertainty over who was \"aboriginal\", and thus eligible to vote.\n\nUnder the bill, a person can claim \"Tasmanian Aboriginality\" if they meet the following criteria:\n\nOn 13 August 1997 a Statement of Apology (specific to removal of children) was issued – which was unanimously supported by the Tasmanian Parliament – the wording of the sentence was\n\nThere are many people currently working in the community, academia, various levels of government and NGOs to strengthen what has been termed as the Tasmanian Aboriginal culture and the conditions of those who identify as members of the descendant community.\n\nIn November 2006 Tasmania became the first Australian state or territory to offer financial compensation for the Stolen Generations, Aboriginal people forcibly removed from their families by Australian government agencies and church missions between about 1900 and 1972. Up to 40 Aboriginal Tasmanians' descendants are expected to be eligible for compensation from the $5 million package.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15384646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15384646", "title": "Air 26", "text": "Air 26\n\nAir26 - Linhas Aéreas, S.A. is an airline based in Luanda, Angola. Founded in 2006, it operates domestic passenger and cargo flights out of the city's Quatro de Fevereiro Airport. Along with all other Angolan airlines except for TAAG, Air 26 is banned from operating within the European Union. In 2010, the company had its licence revoked, but it was re-issued on 31 January 2011.\n\nThe Air 26 fleet consists of the following aircraft (as of August 2016):\n"}
{"id": "4429052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4429052", "title": "Asian Centre for Human Rights", "text": "Asian Centre for Human Rights\n\nThe Asian Centre for Human Rights (ACHR) is an NGO (non-governmental organization) dedicated to the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the Asian. It is headquartered in New Delhi, India. The Asian Centre for Human Rights seeks to provide timely and accurate information; conducts investigations, research and campaigns and lobbies about country situations or individual cases. It aims to increase the impact of human rights activists and civil society groups; provide input into international standard-setting processes on human rights; provide political, legal and practical advice. It secures cultural, social, and economic rights through rights-based approaches to international development. The centre maintains a particular focus on India, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, Philippines, Afghanistan, Bhutan, Maldives, Pakistan and Thailand\n\n"}
{"id": "24893066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24893066", "title": "Asinara donkey", "text": "Asinara donkey\n\nThe Asinara donkey, (), is a breed of feral donkey indigenous to the island of Asinara, which lies off the north-west coast of Sardinia, Italy, in the province of Sassari. Most of the population is wholly or partly albinistic; the small number of grey donkeys on the island are also considered part of the population, and are probably heterozygous carriers of the albino gene. The Asinara donkey is one of the eight autochthonous donkey breeds of limited distribution recognised by the Ministero delle Politiche Agricole Alimentari e Forestali, the Italian ministry of agriculture and forestry. It is called ', ' or \"\" in Sardinian.\n\nThere are approximately 120 individuals on the island. Others are in the natural reserve of Porto Conte in Alghero and at the Istituto di Incremento Ippico at Foresta Burgos, and a few are raised in Tuscany and in Emilia Romagna.\n\nThe Asinara donkey probably derives from a chance mutation in the population of Sardinian donkeys abandoned on the island by the inhabitants when they were forcibly evacuated from it following the law of 28 June 1885, under which Asinara was to be transformed into a lazaret and penal colony. It is also possible that the breed descends from white donkeys imported from Egypt in the 19th century by the Duca dell'Asinara.\n\n"}
{"id": "3742912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3742912", "title": "Association Nationale des Scouts de Guinée", "text": "Association Nationale des Scouts de Guinée\n\nThe Association Nationale des Scouts de Guinée, the national Scouting association of Guinea, became a member of the World Organization of the Scout Movement first in 1990 and again in 2005, after a break in membership. Scouting was officially founded in 1984. The association has 10,592 members (as of 2008).\n\nThe \"Association Nationale des Scouts de Guinée\" consists of several sub-associations, among them the \"Association des Scouts Catholiques de Guinée\" (Catholic Scout Association of Guinea).\n\nThe Scout Motto is \"Sois Prêt\" (Be Prepared) in French.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50427566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50427566", "title": "Athena Protects the Young Hero", "text": "Athena Protects the Young Hero\n\nAthena Protects the Young Hero (German: Der junge Held wird von Athena beschützt) is an 1854 sculpture by Gustav Bläser, installed on Schlossbrücke in Berlin, Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "21046414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21046414", "title": "Banque Internationale du Bénin", "text": "Banque Internationale du Bénin\n\nBanque Internationale du Bénin (B.I.B.E.) is a national bank of Benin. It is a member of the West African Bankers' Association.\n\nIt has its headquarters at Carrefour des 3 Banques in Cotonou but also has branches in Porto-Novo and Parakou. Nigeria dominates the bank, with the First Bank of Nigeria Plc. having a 13.6% share, the Union Bank of Nigeria Plc. (13%), Nigerian Economic Operatives (47.7%), Nigerian Bureau of Public Enterprises (6.7%), and then the First Interstate Merchant Bank Ltd. (11.1%) and finally the Beninese Economic Operatives with 8.2%.\n\n"}
{"id": "34453980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34453980", "title": "Bača subdialect", "text": "Bača subdialect\n\nThe Bača subdialect (\"baški govor\") is a Slovene subdialect of the Tolmin dialect in the Rovte dialect group. It is spoken around Podbrdo in the triangular area bounded by Bača pri Podbrdu, Porezen, and Mount Rodica (1966 m).\n\nThe Bača subdialect is a transitional dialect between the Upper Carniolan dialect group and the Rovte dialect group. Like the rest of the Tolmin dialect, it is generally characterized by akanye, but the local dialect of the village of Rut lacks this feature. The dialectologist Tine Logar has suggested that this may be due to the influence of German colonization. Another special feature of Rut, together with the villages of Stržišče and Podbrdo, is the merger of alveolar and palatal fricatives into alveolo-palatals: \"s/š\" > /ɕ/, \"z/ž\" > /ʑ/, a phenomenon known in Slovene as \"slekanje\". This phonological development has also been attributed to German influence.\n"}
{"id": "45557599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45557599", "title": "Belarus in the Eurovision Young Dancers", "text": "Belarus in the Eurovision Young Dancers\n\nBelarus has participated in the Eurovision Young Dancers 1 time since its debut in 2013.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47092824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47092824", "title": "Briconet Redoubt", "text": "Briconet Redoubt\n\nBriconet Redoubt (), also known as Marsaskala Redoubt () or the Vendôme Entrenchment (), is a redoubt in Marsaskala, Malta. It was built in 1715 by the Order of Saint John as one of a series of coastal fortifications around the Maltese Islands. Until recently, the redoubt was used as a police station.\n\nBriconet Redoubt was built in 1715 as part of the first building programme of coastal batteries and redoubts in Malta. It formed part of the defences of Marsaskala Bay, which also included the large St. Thomas Tower and Battery and the now-demolished Żonqor Tower.\n\nBriconet Redoubt's structure is typical of most other coastal redoubts built in Malta. It consists of a pentagonal platform having short flanks, and a rectangular blockhouse sealing off the gorge. Unlike other redoubts, the gorge and flanks have high boundary walls pierced by musketry loopholes. These were built to defend the redoubt from a landward attack, since it is overlooked by high ground.\n\nConstruction of the redoubt cost 768 scudi. These were paid by the knight Giovanni Battista Briconet, and the redoubt was named in his honour. The redoubt was initially garrisoned by militia from Żejtun, and it was armed with two cannons.\n\nToday, Briconet Redoubt is still intact and in good condition, being one of the best preserved redoubts in Malta. A few modern modifications have been made, such as the opening of a small doorway on one of its faces to enable access from the modern road. The redoubt is surrounded by modern buildings, including Marsaskala's parish church, which have completely blocked its relation with the sea.\n\nUntil the early 21st century, Briconet Redoubt was used as the Marsaskala Police Station, until this was moved to an irregular structure in a garden next to the church. Today, the redoubt is a Grade 1 national monument and it is also listed on the National Inventory of the Cultural Property of the Maltese Islands.\n\n"}
{"id": "13018640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13018640", "title": "Chief of Defence (Belgium)", "text": "Chief of Defence (Belgium)\n\nThe Chief of Defence (, ), abbreviated as CHOD, is the professional head and commander of the Belgian Armed Forces. He is the highest official within the Ministry of Defence and the Chief of the Defence Staff. He reports directly to the Minister of Defence and is responsible for advising the Minister, for the implementation of defence policy and for the administration of the department. The current Chief of Defence is General Marc Compernol, since July 2016.\n"}
{"id": "471593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=471593", "title": "Coat of arms of Burkina Faso", "text": "Coat of arms of Burkina Faso\n\nThe coat of arms of Burkina Faso contains a shield based on the national flag. Above the shield the name of the country is shown, while below it is the national motto, \"Unité, Progrès, Justice\" (French for \"Unity, Progress, Justice\"). The supporters are two white stallions. The two plants emerging from the lower banner appear to represent pearl millet, an important cereal grain cultivated in this country where agriculture represents 32% of the gross domestic product. This coat of arms is similar to the old Upper Volta coat of arms (see below), with the Burkina Faso flag replacing the Upper Volta flag in the middle.\n\nThomas Sankara's 1983–1987 Burkinabé revolution implemented an emblem featuring a crossed mattock and AK-47 (an allusion to the Hammer and Sickle), with the motto \"La Patrie ou la Mort, nous vaincrons\" (\"Fatherland or death, we shall overcome\"').\n\nThis somewhat resembles the current emblem, except that the enclosing shield has a blue background, the inescutcheon is based on the flag of Upper Volta with the superimposed letters \"RHV\" (for \"République de Haute-Volta\"), and the motto was \"Unité, Travail, Justice\" (\"Unity, Labour, Justice\").\n"}
{"id": "17871765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17871765", "title": "Cool Vibes", "text": "Cool Vibes\n\n\"Cool Vibes\" was the Swiss entry to the Eurovision Song Contest 2005, sung by Estonian girl band Vanilla Ninja. The song was composed by David Brandes and \"Jane Tempest\" (Petra Brändle), and was written by Bernd Meinunger, under the pseudonym \"John O'Flynn\".\n\nIt performed at the semi-final Eurovision Song Contest 2005 in Kiev, Ukraine. It performed 19th on the night, following Andorra's Marian van de Wal with \"La mirada interior\" and preceding Croatia's Boris Novković and \"Vukovi umiru sami\". At the close of the voting the song received 114 points, placing 8th.\n\nAt the final of the contest, Vanilla Ninja performed 22nd on the night, following Bosnia and Herzegovina's Feminnem with \"Call Me\" and preceding Latvia's Walters and Kazha and \"The War Is Not Over\". At the close of the voting the song received 128 points, placing 8th out of 24 countries.\n\nIt was succeeded as Swiss representative by Six4one with \"If We All Give a Little\".\n"}
{"id": "2592699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2592699", "title": "County of Horne", "text": "County of Horne\n\nHorne (also \"Horn\", \"Hoorn\" or \"Hoorne\") is a small historic county of the Holy Roman Empire in the present day Netherlands and Belgium. It takes its name from the village Horn, west of Roermond. The residence of the counts of Horne was moved from Horn to Weert in the 15th century.\n\nAfter the execution in 1568 of Philip de Montmorency who died without male heirs, the Prince-Bishop of Liège, as suzerain of Horne, was declared the direct lord and new count. The bishops ruled the county in personal union. Horne maintained its own laws and customs as well as its financial autonomy. The county included the communes of Neer, Nunhem, Haelen, Buggenum, Roggel, Heythuysen, Horne, Beegden, Geystingen and Ophoven.\n\nIt was suppressed in 1795, when it was , and it became part of the French département Meuse-Inférieure.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33258758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33258758", "title": "Die Alpensaga", "text": "Die Alpensaga\n\nDie Alpensaga is an Austrian television series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7129659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7129659", "title": "Gambian presidential election, 2006", "text": "Gambian presidential election, 2006\n\nPresidential elections were held in the Gambia on 22 September 2006. Incumbent President Yahya Jammeh was re-elected with 67.3% of the vote. Ousainou Darboe, who finished second with 27% of the vote, rejected the official results, saying that the elections had not been free and fair and that there was widespread voter intimidation.\n\nMany of the 989 polling booths used marbles, which were inserted into candidate drums instead of ballot papers due to the high illiteracy rate. The marble system is only used in Gambia, where it has been used since 1965.\n"}
{"id": "36040619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36040619", "title": "Gaoua Airport", "text": "Gaoua Airport\n\nGaoua Airport is a public use airport located near Gaoua, Poni, Burkina Faso.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53860156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53860156", "title": "Intelsat V F-4", "text": "Intelsat V F-4\n\nIntelsat 504, previously named Intelsat V F-4, was a communications satellite operated by Intelsat. Launched in 1982, it was the fourth of fifteen Intelsat V satellites to be launched. The Intelsat V series was constructed by Ford Aerospace, based on the Intelsat-V satellite bus.\n\nIntelsat V F-4 was part of an advanced series of satellites designed to provide greater telecommunications capacity for Intelsat's global network. The satellite was deactivated on November 1995.\n\nThe satellite was successfully launched into space on March 5, 1982, at 00:23 UTC, by means of an Atlas SLV-3D Centaur-D1AR vehicle from the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida, United States. It had a launch mass of 1,928 kg. The Intelsat 504 was equipped with 4 Ku-band transponders more 21 C-band transponders for 12,000 audio circuits and 2 TV channels.\n"}
{"id": "2193000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2193000", "title": "Inter Region Economic Network", "text": "Inter Region Economic Network\n\nThe Inter Region Economic Network (IREN) is a non-governmental organization based in Nairobi, Kenya, which advocates free market economics for the development of Africa. Its director is James Shikwati. IREN's key focus areas include targeted events, training, research, consultancy, communication and its flagship magazine: The African Executive - published in English every Wednesday. \n\n"}
{"id": "7392259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7392259", "title": "Kayala Airline", "text": "Kayala Airline\n\nKayala Airline (previously called Al Khayala) was an airline based in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. Kayala was a privately owned premium class airline operating domestic and international scheduled as well as charter services. Its main base was King Abdulaziz International Airport, Jeddah, with a hub at King Khalid International Airport, Riyadh.\n\nThe airline started operations on 16 July 2005 and was wholly owned by Saudi aviation company National Air Services.\n\nUntil 6 May 2008, the airline was known as \"Al-Khayala\".\n\nOn 1 April 2009, bankruptcy was declared and all operations were ceased.\n\nAt May 2008, the following destinations were served:\n\n\nThe Kayala Airline fleet consisted of the following aircraft (at February 2008):Aviation\n\n\nAll aircraft were operated by National Air Services. After operations ceased, the aircraft were stored.\n\n"}
{"id": "5291962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5291962", "title": "Kitenge", "text": "Kitenge\n\n\"For the surname, see Kitenge (surname).\"\n\nKitenge or chitenge is an East African, West African and Central African fabric similar to sarong, often worn by women and wrapped around the chest or waist, over the head as a headscarf, or as a baby sling. Kitenges are colourful pieces of fabric. In the Coastal area of Kenya, and in Tanzania, Kitenges often have Swahili sayings written on them.\n\nKitenges are similar to kangas and kikoy, but are of a thicker cloth and have an edging on only a long side. Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Sudan, Nigeria, Ghana, Senegal, Liberia, Rwanda, and Democratic Republic of the Congo are some of the African countries where kitenge is worn. In Malawi, Namibia and Zambia, kitenge is known as \"Chitenge\". They are sometimes worn by men around the waist in hot weather. In some countries like Malawi, Chitenges never used to be worn by men until recently when the president encouraged civil servants to buy Malawian products by wearing Chitenje on Fridays.\n\nKitenges (plural \"vitenge\" in Swahili; \"zitenge\" in Tonga) serve as an inexpensive, informal piece of clothing that is often decorated with a huge variety of colors, patterns and even political slogans.\n\nThe printing on the cloth is done by a traditional batik technique. These are known as wax prints and the design is equally as bright and detailed on the obverse side of the fabric. These days Wax prints are commercially made and are almost completely roller printed. Fancy prints are roller printed with the designs being less colorful or detailed on the obverse side. Many of the designs have a meaning. A large variety of religious and political designs are found as well as traditional tribal patterns. The cloth is used as material for dresses, blouses and pants as well.\n\nChitenges can be used on occasions and in many ways either symbolically or for practical reasons. Chitenges are used in different settings to convey messages. The following list demonstrates uses of the cloths.\n\n\nKitenges have also become very popular as fashion statements in urban pop culture with youth in Africa. Kitenges are incorporated in clothing items such as hoodies, trousers, and accessories such as bags.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32267875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32267875", "title": "Lumbu language", "text": "Lumbu language\n\nLumbu is a Bantu language spoken in Gabon and the Republic of Congo.\n"}
{"id": "175760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=175760", "title": "Malcolm Campbell", "text": "Malcolm Campbell\n\nMajor Sir Malcolm Campbell (11 March 1885 – 31 December 1948) was a British racing motorist and motoring journalist. He gained the world speed record on land and on water at various times during the 1920s and 1930s using vehicles called \"Blue Bird\", including a 1921 Grand Prix Sunbeam. His son, Donald Campbell, carried on the family tradition by holding both land speed and water speed records.\n\nCampbell was born in Chislehurst, Kent on 11 March 1885, the only son of William Campbell, a Hatton Garden diamond seller. He attended the independent Uppingham School. In Germany, learning the diamond trade, he gained an interest in motorbikes and races. Returning to Britain, he worked for two years at Lloyd's of London for no pay, then for another year at £1 a week.\n\nBetween 1906 and 1908, he won all three London to Lakes End Trials motorcycle races. In 1910 he began racing cars at Brooklands. He christened his car \"Blue Bird\", painting it blue, after seeing the play \"The Blue Bird\" by Maurice Maeterlinck at the Haymarket Theatre. Campbell married Marjorie Dagmar Knott in 1913 but divorced two years later.\n\nCampbell then married Dorothy Evelyn Whittall in 1920 and their son Donald was born in 1921, and their daughter, Jean, in 1923. They divorced in 1940. Campbell married Betty Nicory in 1945 in Chelsea.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War I Campbell initially enlisted as a motorcycle dispatch rider and fought at the Battle of Mons in August 1914. Shortly afterwards he was commissioned as a Second Lieutenant in the 5th Battalion, Queen's Own (Royal West Kent Regiment), a Territorial Force unit, on 2 September 1914. He was soon drafted into the Royal Flying Corps where he served as a ferry pilot, as his instructors believed he was too clumsy to make the grade as a fighter pilot.\n\nDuring the late 1930s he commanded the Provost Company of the 56th (London) Division of the Territorial Army. From 1940 to 1942 he commanded the Military Police contingent of the Coats Mission tasked with evacuating King George VI, Queen Elizabeth and their immediate family from London in the event of German invasion. On 23 January 1943 he was transferred from the Corps of Military Police to the General List. On 16 December 1945, having attained the age limit of 60, Campbell relinquished his commission and was granted the honorary rank of Major.\n\nCampbell competed in Grand Prix motor racing, winning the 1927 and 1928 Grand Prix de Boulogne in France driving a Bugatti T37A.\n\nCampbell broke the land speed record for the first time in 1924 at at Pendine Sands near Carmarthen Bay in a 350HP V12 Sunbeam, now on display at the National Motor Museum, Beaulieu. He broke nine land speed records between 1924 and 1935, with three at Pendine Sands and five at Daytona Beach. His first two records were driving a racing car built by Sunbeam.\n\nOn 4 February 1927 Campbell set the land speed record at Pendine Sands, covering the Flying Kilometre (in an average of two runs) at and the Flying Mile in , in the Napier-Campbell Blue Bird.\n\nHe set his final land speed record at the Bonneville Salt Flats in Utah on 3 September 1935, and was the first person to drive an automobile over 300 mph, averaging in two passes.\n\nCampbell developed and flotation-tested Blue Bird on Tilgate Lake, in Tilgate Park, Crawley.\nHe set the water speed record four times, his highest speed being in the \"Blue Bird K4\". He set the record on 19 August 1939 on Coniston Water, Cumbria, England.\n\nCampbell stood for Parliament without success at the 1935 general election in Deptford for the Conservative Party, despite his links to the British Union of Fascists. Reportedly, he once adorned his car with a Fascist pennant of the London Volunteer Transport Service, though there has been no photographic evidence to support this claim.\n\nCampbell died after a series of strokes in 1948 in Reigate, Surrey, aged 63 years. He was one of the few land speed record holders of his era to die of natural causes, as so many had died in crashes. His versatile racing on different vehicles made him internationally famous.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "99808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99808", "title": "Mexico City International Airport", "text": "Mexico City International Airport\n\nMexico City International Airport (); officially \"Aeropuerto Internacional Benito Juárez\" (Benito Juárez International Airport) is an international airport that serves Greater Mexico City. It is Mexico's and Latin America's busiest airport by passenger traffic and aircraft movements. The airport sustains 35,000 jobs directly and around 15,000 indirectly in the immediate area. The airport is owned by Grupo Aeroportuario de la Ciudad de México and operated by Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares, the government-owned corporation, which also operates 22 other airports throughout Mexico. In recent years Toluca Airport has become an alternate airport.\n\nThis hot and high airport is served by 30 domestic and international passenger airlines and 17 cargo carriers. As the main hub for Mexico's largest airline Aeroméxico (with Aeroméxico Connect), the airport has become a SkyTeam hub. It is also a hub for Aeromar, Interjet, Volaris, and a focus city for VivaAerobus. On a typical day, more than 100,000 passengers pass through the airport to and from more than 100 destinations on four continents. In 2017, the airport handled 44,732,418 passengers, a 7.2% increase compared to 2016.\n\nOperating near the limits of its capacity, calls for replacing the airport were announced in September 2014, with the proposed location to be built north-northeast of the current airport, east of Ecatepec. However, after a public plebiscite, the project was cancelled.\n\nLocated at the neighbourhood of Peñón de los Baños within Venustiano Carranza, one of the sixteen boroughs into which Mexico City is divided, the airport is east from Downtown Mexico City and is surrounded by the built-up areas of Gustavo A. Madero to the north and Venustiano Carranza to the west, south and east. As the airport is located on the east side of Mexico City and its runways run southwest-northeast, an airliner's landing approach is usually directly over the conurbation of Mexico City when the wind is from the northeast. Therefore, there is an important overflying problem and noise pollution.\n\nThe original site, known as Llanos de Balbuena, had been used for aeronautical activities since 1910, when Alberto Braniff became the first to fly an aeroplane in Mexico, and in Latin America. The flight was onboard of a Voisin biplane. On November 30, 1911, President Francisco I. Madero, was the first head of State in the world to fly onboard of a Deperdussin airplane piloted by Geo M. Dyott of Moisant International.\nIn 1915 the airport first opened as Balbuena Military Airport with five runways. Construction of a small civilian airport began in 1928. The first landing was on November 5, 1928, and regular service started in 1929, but was officially inaugurated on May 15, 1931. On July 8, 1943, the Official Gazette of the Federation published a decree that acknowledged Mexico City's Central Airport as an international airport, capable of managing international arrivals and departures of passengers and aircraft. Its first international route was to Los Angeles International Airport operated by Mexicana. Construction of Runway 05D-23I started six years later, as well as new facilities such as a platform, a terminal building, a control tower and offices for the authorities. The runway started its operations in 1951. On November 19, 1952, President Miguel Alemán opened the passenger terminal, which later became Terminal 1.\n\nIn 1956 the airport had four runways in service: 05L-23R (2,720m long, 40m wide), 05R-23L (3,000m long, 45m wide), with electric lights for night-time service; 13-31 (2,300m long, 40m wide) which had been built to relieve 14-32, to which residential areas had encroached too closely; and 5 Auxiliar (759m long).\n\nOn December 2, 1963, Walter C. Buchanan, former director of the Transport and Communications Department (SCT), changed the airport's name \"Aeropuerto Central\" (Central Airport) to \"Aeropuerto Internacional de la Ciudad de México\" (Mexico City International Airport).\n\nIn the 1970s, president Luis Echeverría closed the two remaining shorter runways (13/31 and 5 Auxiliar); on the land of 13-31 a social housing complex was built, Unidad Fiviport. leaving the two parallel runways. In 1980, the terminal was expanded to double its capacity, using a single large terminal rather than multiple terminals as in other airports. Ten years later in 1990, the mixed domestic/international gates were separated to increase the terminal's functionality, along with the separation of domestic and international check-in halls. \n\nOn November 24, 1978, the \"Mexico\" Control Tower began its operations; it has been in service since then.\n\nThe AICM has continually improved its infrastructure. On August 15, 1979, and after about a year of remodeling works, the terminal building reopened to the public; the airport continued its operations during the renovation, which improved passenger transit with better space distribution in walkways and rooms.\n\nDue to constant growth in demand of both passengers and operations, on January 13, 1994, the Official Gazette of the Federation, published a presidential decree that prohibited general aviation operations in the AICM, which were moved to Toluca International Airport in order to clear air traffic in the capital's airport.\n\nRenovations to the AICM continued and on April 11, 1994, a new International Terminal building was ready and operational. It was built by a private contractor according to a co-investment agreement with Airports and Auxiliary Services. In 2001, in order to further improve service to passengers, construction for Module XI started. This Module permitted eight new contact positions in the Airport Terminal, capable of receiving eight regular airplanes, two wide-body, or four narrow-body aircraft.\n\nBecause of the increasing traffic, president Vicente Fox announced the construction of a new, larger airport on in the municipalities of Texcoco and San Salvador Atenco, but when local violent protests took place in 2002, the new airport was cancelled. Instead, to respond to the growing demand and aiming to position the AICM as one of the greatest in terms of quality, services, security, and operational functionality, on May 30, 2003, the Federal Government announced an update: an extension to the air terminal in order to widen its service capacity from 20 million to 32 million passengers a year. This program was part of the Metropolitan Airport System, promoted by the Federal Administration. The Communications and Transportation Ministry (SCT), Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares (ASA) and AICM performed expansion and remodeling work on Terminal 1, over a surface area of ; 48,000 of which were new construction and 42,000 of which were remodeled. The renovations include new airline counters, commercial spaces and an elevator for people with disabilities, which improved the flow of passengers with domestic destinations.\n\nAmong other works performed in the international area, a long-distance bus terminal was built with connections to Puebla, Cuernavaca, Pachuca, Toluca, Querétaro and Orizaba. The new bus station has access to a food court and the international arrivals and departures area, as well as a pedestrian bridge that connects to \"The Peñón de los Baños\" neighborhood.\n\nThe airport was formally named after the 19th-century president Benito Juárez in 2006.\n\nOn November 15, 2007, Terminal 2 was opened, significantly increasing the airport's capacity. All SkyTeam members moved their operations to the new terminal, except Air France and KLM. It was officially inaugurated in March 2008, once the new road accesses and taxiways were finished. Terminal 2 increased the airport's contact positions by 40% and the operational capacity by 15%. The terminal was inaugurated by former President Felipe Calderón Hinojosa.\n\nThe airport has suffered from a lack of capacity due to restrictions on expansion, since it is located in a densely populated area. In 2014, Mexican authorities established \nand declared a maximum capacity of 61 operations per hour with a total of 16 rush hours (7:00 –22:59). Another issue with the airport is the limitation that its two runways provide, since they are used at 97.3% of their maximum capacity, leaving a very short room for new operations into the airport. Only government, military, commercial, and specially authorised aircraft are allowed to land at the airport. Private aircraft must use alternate airports, such as Lic. Adolfo López Mateos International Airport in Toluca, General Mariano Matamoros Airport in Cuernavaca, or Hermanos Serdán International Airport in Puebla.\n\nThe construction of a new Mexico City international airport was announced by Mexican president Enrique Peña Nieto on September 2, 2014, who said that it would be \"emblemático\", or a national symbol. The new airport will replace the current Mexico City International Airport, which is at capacity. It is to have one large terminal of and six runways: two that are each long and four that are each long. The architects are Sir Norman Foster and Fernando Romero, son-in-law of billionaire Carlos Slim and architect of the Soumaya Museum.\n\nConstruction will take eight years and depending on the source, is estimated to cost 120 or 169 billion Mexican pesos, about 9–13 billion U.S. dollars. It will be built on land already owned by the federal government in the \"Zona Federal del Lago de Texcoco\", between Ecatepec and Atenco in the State of Mexico, about 10 km northeast of the current airport.\n\nThe terminal is to be sustainable, aiming for a LEED Platinum certification.\n\nThe project, however, was cancelled on October 30, 2018 after voters voted against a referendum related to the airport.\n\nMexico City International Airport has two passenger terminals. Terminal 1 is separated from Terminal 2 by the runways.\n\n\n\nTerminal 2 was built over a surface area of 242,666.55m² and has modern security systems, in accordance with international standards including a passenger traffic separation systems. The new facility will help AICM increase its capacity to 32 million passengers per year.\n\nAir operations in the new facilities began on November 15, 2007, with flights by Aeromar and Delta Air Lines, and later AeroMéxico, Copa, LAN and Continental Airlines. Terminal 2 was formally inaugurated by former Presidente Felipe Calderón Hinojosa on March 26, 2008.\n\nThese projects were done without affecting airplane takeoffs and landings, and will help Mexico City International Airport offer better services, and respond to the growing demand of passengers and operations in the coming years.\n\nTerminal 2 now houses all Aeroméxico flights out of the airport, becoming the airline's main distribution center. Although the terminal was intended to be served by all-SkyTeam member airlines, Air France and KLM decided to remain at Terminal 1.\n\nAeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares, a government-owned corporation that operates airports in Mexico, has its headquarters on the airport property., Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares. The Aeromar headquarters are located in Hangar 7 in Zone D of the General Aviation Terminal of the airport. Aviacsa had its headquarters in Hangar 1 in Zone C, but ceased operations on May 4, 2011.\n\nThe airport connects 52 domestic and 50 international destinations in Latin America, North America, Europe and Asia. Aeromexico serves the largest number of cities from any Latin American hub (80), 46 domestic and 34 international. Most prominent foreign airlines are United Airlines, American Airlines, Delta Air Lines and Avianca Holdings. Aeroméxico/Aeroméxico Connect operates the most departures from the airport followed by Interjet, Volaris, and Aeromar. Aeroméxico also operates to the most destinations followed by Interjet.\n\nThis table lists passengers flights served with a nonstop or direct flight with no change of aircraft carrying passengers originating in Mexico City according to the airlines' published schedules, unless otherwise noted.\n\n\nIn addition to the scheduled airlines above, Mexico City airport is used by some further airlines for chartered flights including:\n\n\nAs of January 2018, Mexico City airport is served by 19 cargo airlines flying directly to Europe, Central, North and South America, Middle East, Africa and East Asia. The following airlines operate the scheduled destinations below.\n\nAirlines providing on-demand cargo services\n\nIn 2017, Mexico City International Airport moved 44,732,418 passengers, making it the busiest airport in Latin America in terms of total passengers. It registered a year-to-year increase of 7.2%.\n\nIn terms of international passengers, it was the second busiest airport in Latin America with 15,753,355 passengers, behind Cancún and the second busiest in Mexico after Cancún.\n\nThe airport is the busiest in Latin America by aircraft movements with 24% more operations than Bogotá-El Dorado and 44.65% more than São Paulo-Guarulhos. It is the 15th busiest airport in the world in terms of aircraft departures. In 2016, the airport handled 448,147 aircraft operations, an average of 1,227 operations per day.\n\nRegarding cargo, the airport is also the busiest in the country and the second busiest in Latin America, after El Dorado International Airport in Bogotá. During 2017, it moved over 537,262.69 tons, an annual increase of 11.13%. The net growth of 53,000 tons was the biggest in the region.\n\nTerminal 1 is connected to Terminal 2 by the Aerotrén monorail system in which only connecting passengers with hand baggage are allowed to use with their boarding pass. Technical and cabin crew can also use it. The distance between the terminals is . and the Airtrain's speed is . Also there is a land service between terminals called \"inter-terminal transportation\". These buses are located at entrance no. 6 of Terminal 1 and entrance no. 4 of Terminal 2.\n\nTerminal 1 is served by the Terminal Aérea Metro station, which belongs to Line 5 of the subway, running from Pantitlán station to Politécnico station. It is located just outside the national terminal. Also, trolley bus line G runs from the bus stop next to the Metro to Boulevard Puerto Aéreo station away, allowing transfer to Metro Line 1 (one can also take line 5 to Pantitlán and change to line 1, which is a geographical detour). Terminal 2 does not have any Metro station, but is a walk from Pantitlán served by Metro lines 1, 5, 9, A and numerous local buses.\n\nTerminals 1 and 2 have two land terminals operating 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Different bus lines operate from here , and provide continuous transportation services to the main cities located around Mexico City, such as Córdoba, Cuernavaca, Pachuca, Puebla, Querétaro, Tlaxcala and Toluca.\n\nIn late 2010, former Head of Government of the Federal District Marcelo Ebrard announced a plan to build a new Metrobús Line 4 that would run from near Buenavista Station in the west of the city towards Mexico City airport. Construction on Line 4 started on July 4, 2011. The plans for Line 4 include a two step construction process with the first operational segment to be built between Buenavista and Metro San Lázaro. An extension provides travel between San Lázaro and the airport. The line opened on April 1, 2012.\n\nTaxis are in operation in Terminals 1 and 2 and there are two models of service: Ordinary service in a sedan type vehicle for 4 passengers. Executive service in 8 passengers vans. At present there are 5 taxi groups in operation. These are the only taxis authorised by the Ministry of Communications and Transport (SCT) of the Federal Government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54986674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54986674", "title": "Mobilis (Algeria)", "text": "Mobilis (Algeria)\n\nMobilis, or ATM Mobilis (Algeria Telecom Mobile), a subsidiary of Algérie Télécom, is one of the three major mobile operators in Algeria. Mobilis, which became independent in August 2003, offers its customers: post and pre-paid offers, SMS / MMS, international roaming, voicemail, Internet billing, free notification of the balance after each call, free call to One or more favorite numbers.\n\n"}
{"id": "35319269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35319269", "title": "Movicel", "text": "Movicel\n\nMovicel is the smaller of the two Angolan mobile phone companies. Its official name is \"Movicel Telecomunicações S.A.\". Movicel was originally created in 2003 as a subsidiary of the state owned Angola Telecom. In 2010, 80% of the company's capital was sold to various private companies: Portmil - Investimentos e Telecomunicações, S.A., Modus Comunicar, S.A., Ipangue, S.A., Lambda Investement and Novatel Wireless. The remaining 20% remain in the hands of the state owned (\"empresa publica\") companies Angola Telecom and ENCTA. The seat of the company is the capital city Luanda. Movicel sells its services via a network of shops; recharging cards for pre-paid contracts are also sold by individual street sellers.\n\nMovicel claims to have more than 3 million customers out of a population of estimated 18 to 20 million people in Angola.\n\nMovicel offers GSM based mobile communication for voice communications, text and multimedia messages, and mobile internet access. Movicel has coverage in all 18 Angolan provinces. Movicel sets forth its roaming agreements with 500 mobile phone provides in 213 countries and territories on all continents.\nCurrently (2013), this roaming coverage is available only for post-paid contracts. Pre-paid contracts may use roaming only in selected countries.\n\nThe tariff is calculated in UTT (Unidade Tarifária de Telecomunicações - Telecommunication Tariff Units), a common tariff unit used by all telecommunication companies in Angola. The price of one UTT is 10 Kwanzas. Recharging cards are available with 400Kz, 900Kz, 2.500Kz, 4.500Kz and 8.800Kz.\n\nThe prefix for Movicel phone numbers are 91 and 99.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2163333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2163333", "title": "Mérida International Airport", "text": "Mérida International Airport\n\nManuel Crescencio Rejón International Airport, formerly known as Mérida-Rejón Airport is an international airport located in the Mexican city of Mérida, Yucatán. It is located on the southern edge of the city and it is one of four airports in Mexico which has an Area Control Center \n(Centro Mérida/Mérida Center); the other ones being Mexico City International Airport, Monterrey International Airport and Mazatlán International Airport. Mérida Center controls air traffic over the southeast part of the country.\n\nIt handles both domestic and international flights, and is open 24 hours a day. It can service airplanes as large as Boeing 747s and 777s, though most planes that fly in and out daily are smaller; the most common being the 737 and A320.\n\nThe airport was completely remodeled between 1999 and 2001. It is the second largest airport in the ASUR's (Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste) group in terms of passengers and the first in terms of cargo.\n\nThere are multiple duty-free stores, a food court, specialty stores, bank and car rental counters in the terminal. 24 hour medical services and tourist information booths are also available\n\nA Mexican Air Force Base −8th BAM, is located at the premises to the left of runway 10.\n\nIn 2017, 2,148,484 passengers passed through Mérida International Airport, a 10.2% increase from 2016. It became the 8th airport in the country to reach the 2 million milestone.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25358774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25358774", "title": "Nassim al-Roh", "text": "Nassim al-Roh\n\nNassim al-Roh () (\"Breeze of the Soul\") is a Syrian drama film by director Abdellatif Abdelhamid. The film discusses different social scenes in modern Syrian society.\n"}
{"id": "21568952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21568952", "title": "Nepal Trade Union Congress-Independent", "text": "Nepal Trade Union Congress-Independent\n\nThe Nepal Trade Union Congress-Independent (NTUC-I) is a national trade union centre in Nepal. It was founded in 2008, as the merger of two organisations, the Nepal Trade Union Congress (NTUC) and the Democratic Congress of Nepali Trade Unions (DECONT). DECONT had split from the NTUC in 1997.\n\nThe NTUC-I is affiliated to the International Trade Union Confederation, and is politically linked to the Nepali Congress (NC) party.\n"}
{"id": "26258772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26258772", "title": "Oran socialiste", "text": "Oran socialiste\n\nOran socialiste was a weekly newspaper published from Oran, Algeria, 1928-1939. \"Oran socialiste\" was the organ of the French Section of the Workers International (S.F.I.O.) in Oran. \"Oran socialiste\" was founded and edited by Marius Dubois.\n"}
{"id": "31755134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31755134", "title": "P.M. News", "text": "P.M. News\n\nP.M. News is a daily newspaper published in Lagos, Nigeria by the Independent Communications Network Limited (ICNL). The company also publishes the weekly \"TheNEWS\" magazine and \"Tempo\", a tabloid.\n\nThe News was founded in 1993 by Bayo Onanuga, Babafemi Ojudu and other former staff from the African Concord who had resigned in protest over a request by M.K.O. Abiola, the publisher, to apologise to President Ibrahim Babangida over a critical story about the military regime. Ojudu was the first Managing Editor. \nAfter harassment by the Babangida regime, there was a brief period of press freedom under General Sani Abacha during which \"P.M. News\" was launched in August 1994 as a breezy afternoon paper strongly oriented towards news but also covering fashions, sports and entertainment.\n\nIn the years that followed, \"P.M. News\" and \"TheNews\" were known for \"guerrilla journalism\".\nThey were subject to constant interference by the authorities, arrests and closures.\nFor example, in August 1996 Amnesty International reported that Editor-in-chief Bayo Onanuga was thought to be held by the State Security Service at their Lagos headquarters, and may have been ill-treated in custody.\nBabafemi Ojudu had been released on 13 August 1996 and had required hospital treatment as a result of ill-treatment. The two men may have been arrested due to publishing articles critical to the government.\nOnanuga fled from Nigeria in 1997 after hiding from state security forces for months. He returned home to resume work at ICNL in 1998, after the sudden death of Abacha and the start of the transition to democracy.\n"}
{"id": "984189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=984189", "title": "ProDG (Belgium)", "text": "ProDG (Belgium)\n\nProDG (\"Pro Deutschsprachige Gemeinschaft\"), is a regionalist and Christian-democratic political party active in the German-speaking community of Belgium. The party brings together politicians from the previous Party of German-speaking Belgians (PDB) and PJU parties. The party was formed in 2008 and first featured on the electoral ballot in 2009. Following the 2009 regional election, the party won four out of 25 seats in the Parliament and participated in the regional Government of the German-speaking Community of Belgium with two ministers. In the 2014 regional election, the party won six seats and its leader Oliver Paasch became the new minister-president.\n\nThe party was formerly a member of the European Free Alliance.\n\nResults for the German-speaking electoral college.\n"}
{"id": "46574586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46574586", "title": "RTS SAT", "text": "RTS SAT\n\nRTS SVET (Serbian Cyrillic: РТС СBEТ, or RTS WORLD (/); Satellite program of RTS (/ )) is a Serbian satellite television channel. It is operated by RTS.\n\nThe channel is aimed at Serbs living abroad.\n\nThe channel was banned by the satellite provider Eutelsat during the NATO conflict with Serbia in 1999.\n"}
{"id": "12458136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12458136", "title": "Rinaldo Del Bo", "text": "Rinaldo Del Bo\n\nRinaldo Del Bo (or Dino Del Bo; 19 November 1916 – 16 January 1991) was an Italian politician who served in the High Authority of the European Coal and Steel Community, serving as President of the body between 9 October 1963 and 1967 as the Del Bo Authority.\n"}
{"id": "13233139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13233139", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Bungoma", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Bungoma\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Bungoma () is a diocese located in the city of Bungoma in the Ecclesiastical province of Kisumu in Kenya.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50223150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50223150", "title": "SAARC Chamber of Commerce and Industry", "text": "SAARC Chamber of Commerce and Industry\n\nSAARC Chamber of Commerce and Industry, recognized as a Regional Apex Body by South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation is a constellation of the eight national federations of chamber of commerce and industry of the member states of SAARC. The rationale behind creation of SAARC Chamber of Commerce and Industry of the SAARC countries was to promote trade and industry in the region and to develop and achieve common objectives in the areas of trade and industry, moreover the SAARC Chamber of Commerce and Industry is also accepted as the voice of the private sector across the region.\n\nPursuant to the directive of SAARC Secretariat, SAARC Chamber of Commerce & Industry, assisted by the National Federations, submitted its draft constitution to the SAARC Secretariat and received its approval in December 1992. This signified the official recognition of the SAARC Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SAARC CCI) by all the national governments of SAARC as the apex body of all the National Federations of Chambers of Commerce and Industry of SAARC, namely\n\n"}
{"id": "37960328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37960328", "title": "Slavery in Madras Presidency", "text": "Slavery in Madras Presidency\n\nSlavery in the Madras Presidency during the British Raj affected close to 20% of the population. The landlords were predominantly higher caste individuals. When those from the lower castes borrowed money against their land and defaulted, they entered a life of debt bondage. The slaves formed 12.2% of the total population in 1930.\n\nThe patterns of slavery and slave population varied between districts. Various laws were passed during 1811, 1812 and 1823 to restrict slavery and prevent child labour, though the slave trade was only ended with the Indian Slavery Act of 1843, and the sale of slaves became a criminal offence in 1862 under the new Indian Penal Code.\n\nThe \"Mirasdars\", or landlords, were usually from the higher castes. Lower caste individuals borrowed money against their holdings from the \"mirasdars\" for marriage expenses, housing, or farming costs. On defaulting, they would find themselves obliged to repay the debt through labour. Hereditary relationships continued between debtors and their masters, as generations found themselves in debt bondage, leading to slavery. The opinion is divided on whether Brahmins directly used slaves or employed hired labourers. A theory, emitting from the note of the collector of Trichonopoly in 1819, states that the Brahmins employed lower castes labourers and the non-Brahmin landlords used lower caste slaves. Slavery was observed in almost all castes, both Brahmin and non-Brahmin.\n\nThe pattern of slavery varied between different districts of the presidency, as did the sale of workers with land In South Arcot and Coimbatore, slaves could be sold to anyone. In Coimbatore, slavery during the early 19th century was predominantly debt based. Serfs were sold along with land in Trichonopoly. The collector of Tinnevelly reported in 1919 that there was no specific pattern for selling serfs with land or slaves alone. It was later observed that slaves were sold with land, a situation closer to what would be called serfdom. A similar pattern was observed in Tanjore, where the sale of slaves to other estates was rare. In Madurai, slavery was in gradual decline as early as 1819. Some slaves, after liberation joined the Presidency army as Sepoys. In the northern parts of the Presidency, like Masulipatnam and Ganjam, agrarian slavery was minimal. In the Telugu speaking districts, the slaves were of three kinds – servants to \"zamindars\", servants to Muslims, and labourers attached to land.\n\nThe Law Commission report on slavery in 1841 contained the indicative figures on the number of slaves, based the numbers categorised as Pallar and Paraiyar. In South Arcot , the number of slaves was 17,000 in 1819, comprising less than 4% of the population. In Tanjore, the numbers were reported to be more numerous, while in Madurai it was less. The Tinnelvely collector reported 38% of the whole population as slaves. In Trichonopoly, the collector estimated 10,000 slaves in wet parts and 600 in dry parts of the district. In Nellore, the slave population was 14.6% of the total population in 1827 and 16% in 1930. Slaves formed 12.2% of the total population in 1930.\n\nThe Slave Trade Felony Act of 1811, created a criminal penalty for the importation of slaves into British Territory. There were proposed regulations in 1823 to prevent child labour. In 1833, the Slavery Abolition Act received Royal Assent, though the Act did not \"extend to any of the Territories in the Possession of the East India Company, or to the Island of Ceylon, or to the Island of Saint Helena.\" Act V of 1843 finally ended the slave trade in India, and this was incorporated in 1862 under the new Indian Penal Code.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32847078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32847078", "title": "Sol Filosofia", "text": "Sol Filosofia\n\nSol Filosofia is the second studio album by Kenyan afro-pop band Sauti Sol. It was released on February 25, 2011 by Penya Records, and launched at the Alliance française in Nairobi.\n\nThe album's two singles \"Soma Kijana\" and \"Coming Home\" also had music videos released, with that of the latter featuring\n\n\nTrack listing for \"Sol Filosofia\" adapted from Amazon.com.\n"}
{"id": "4024423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4024423", "title": "Status of Jerusalem", "text": "Status of Jerusalem\n\nThe status of Jerusalem is disputed in both international law and diplomatic practice. Both the Israelis and the Palestinians claim Jerusalem as their capital city, and their dispute over it has been described as \"one of the most intractable issues in the Israel–Palestine conflict\". The conflicting claims include issues of sovereignty over the city, or parts of it, including access to holy sites.\n\nThe main dispute revolves around the legal status of East Jerusalem and especially the Old City of Jerusalem, while broader agreement exists regarding future Israeli presence in West Jerusalem. In June 2017, Russia officially recognised West Jerusalem as Israel's capital, having recognized East Jerusalem as Palestine's capital in 1988. While the United States historically supported the establishment of an international regime for Jerusalem, it officially recognized Jerusalem as Israel's capital in December 2017. The proposal that Jerusalem should be the future capital of both Israel and Palestine has also gained international support, with endorsements coming from both the United Nations and the European Union.\n\nThe majority of United Nations (UN) member states and most international organisations do not recognize Israel's sovereignty over East Jerusalem, which came under its control after the 1967 Six-Day War, or its 1980 Jerusalem Law proclamation, which declared a \"complete and united\" Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. As a result, most countries locate their foreign embassies in Tel Aviv and its suburbs rather than in Jerusalem. Many UN member states formally adhere to the UN proposal that Jerusalem should have an international status, as outlined in General Assembly Resolution 181 (II). The European Union has also followed the UN's lead in this regard, declaring Jerusalem's status to be that of a \"corpus separatum\", or an international city to be administered by the UN. On the other hand, and inconsistent with the status of \"corpus separatum\", the UN has designated East Jerusalem occupied Palestinian territory. China recognizes East Jerusalem as the capital of Palestine.\n\nFrom the end of the Ottoman–Mamluk War in 1517 until the First World War, Jerusalem was part of the Ottoman Empire. Since the 1860s, Jews have formed the largest religious group in the city and since around 1887, Jews have been in the majority. In the 19th century, European powers vied for influence in the city, usually on the basis of extending protection over Christian churches and Holy Places. A number of these countries also established consulates in Jerusalem. In 1917 and following the First World War, Great Britain was in control of Jerusalem; from 1923 as part of the Mandate of Palestine. The principal Allied Powers recognized the unique spiritual and religious interests in Jerusalem among the world's three great monotheistic religions as \"a sacred trust of civilization\", and stipulated that the existing rights and claims connected with it be safeguarded in perpetuity, under international guarantee.\n\nHowever, the Arab and Jewish communities in Palestine were in mortal dispute and Britain sought United Nations assistance in resolving the dispute. In November 1947, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine (Resolution 181), which called for the partition of Palestine into Arab and Jewish states, with Jerusalem being established as a \"corpus separatum\", or a \"separated body\" with a special legal and political status, administered by the United Nations. Jewish representatives accepted the partition plan, while representatives of the Palestinian Arabs and the Arab states rejected it, declaring it illegal.\n\nIn May 1948, the Jewish community in Palestine issued the declaration of the establishment of the State of Israel. Israel became a member of the United Nations the following year and has since been recognised by most countries. The countries recognizing Israel did not recognize its sovereignty over Jerusalem generally, citing the UN resolutions which called for an international status for the city.\n\nWith the declaration of the establishment of the State of Israel and the subsequent invasion by surrounding Arab states, the UN proposal for Jerusalem never materialised. The 1949 Armistice Agreements left Jordan in control of the eastern parts of Jerusalem, while the western sector was held by Israel. Each side recognised the other's \"de facto\" control of their respective sectors. The Armistice Agreement, however, was considered internationally as having no legal effect on the continued validity of the provisions of the partition resolution for the internationalisation of Jerusalem. In 1950, Jordan annexed East Jerusalem as part of its larger annexation of the West Bank. Though the United Kingdom and Pakistan recognized Jordanian rule over East Jerusalem, no other country recognized either Jordanian or Israeli rule over the respective areas of the city under their control.\n\nFollowing the Six-Day War of 1967, Israel declared that Israeli law would be applied to East Jerusalem and enlarged its eastern boundaries, approximately doubling its size. The action was deemed unlawful by other states who did not recognize it. It was condemned by the UN Security Council and General Assembly which described it as an annexation and a violation of the rights of the Palestinian population. In 1980, Israel passed the Jerusalem Law, which declared that \"Jerusalem, complete and united, is the capital of Israel\". The Security Council declared the law null and void in Resolution 478, which also called upon member states to withdraw their diplomatic missions from the city. The UN General Assembly has also passed numerous resolutions to the same effect.\n\nIsrael took control of West Jerusalem during the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, while Jordan had taken control of East Jerusalem (including the walled Old City in which most holy places are located). Israel rejected corpus separatum at the Lausanne Conference of 1949 and instead indicated a preference for a division of Jerusalem into Jewish and Arab zones, and international control and protection only for holy places and sites. Also in 1949, as the UN General Assembly began debating the implementation of its decision of 29 November 1947 regarding the establishment of Jerusalem as a separate international entity under the auspices of the United Nations, Israel declared Jerusalem Israel's \"eternal capital\".\n\nAfter Israel conquered East Jerusalem from Jordan in 1967 during the Six-Day War, which it characterised as self-defence, Israel also argued that it had the stronger right to the city. Israel argued that Jordan had no rights to any land west of the Jordan River, and had taken the West Bank and East Jerusalem by an act of aggression and therefore never acquired sovereignty. Following its conquest of East Jerusalem in 1967, Israel merged East Jerusalem with West Jerusalem by administratively extending the municipal boundary of the city.\n\nIn July 1980, the Knesset passed the Jerusalem Law as part of the country's Basic Law, which declared Jerusalem the unified capital of Israel.\n\nAccording to a 1999 statement by the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs, \"There is no basis in international law for the position supporting a status of 'corpus separatum' (separate entity) for the city of Jerusalem.\" In the view of the ministry, the concept of \"corpus separatum\" became irrelevant after the Arab states rejected the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine and invaded the newly created state of Israel in 1948. Accordingly, the ministry states, \"There has never been any agreement, treaty, or international understanding which applies the 'Corpus Separatum' concept to Jerusalem.\"\n\nPositions on the final status of Jerusalem have varied with different Israeli governments. The Oslo Accords declared that the final status of Jerusalem would be negotiated, but Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin declared that he would never divide the city. In 1995, he told a group of school children that \"if they told us peace is the price of giving up a united Jerusalem under Israeli sovereignty, my reply would be 'let's do without peace'\". This position was upheld by his successor, Benjamin Netanyahu. Netanyahu's successor, Ehud Barak, during negotiations, became the first Israeli Prime Minister to allow for a possible division of Jerusalem, despite his campaign promises. Prime Minister Ehud Olmert vowed to keep Jerusalem the \"undivided, eternal capital of the Jewish people\", but later supported the detachment of several Arab neighborhoods from Israeli sovereignty and the introduction of an international trust to run the Temple Mount. When Netanyahu succeeded Olmert, he declared that \"all of Jerusalem would always remain under Israeli sovereignty\" and that only Israel would \"ensure the freedom of religion and freedom of access for the three religions to the holy places\". These statements seem to closely reflect Israeli public opinion. According to a 2012 poll by the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs, 78% of Jewish voters who responded said that they would reconsider voting for any politician that wants to relinquish Israel's control over the Old City and East Jerusalem.\n\nOn 17 May 2015, Prime Minister Netanyahu reiterated, regarding Jerusalem serving as the capital of both Israel and a future Palestinian state, \"Jerusalem has forever been the capital of only the Jewish people and no other nation.\" On 25 January 2018, Netanyahu repeated the previous government position but seemed to alter the position, reportedly saying: \"Under any peace agreement the capital of Israel will continue to be \"in\" Jerusalem.\" (stress added)\n\nUntil the Oslo Accords in 1993, and the Letters of Mutual Recognition, the Palestinian leadership had at all times rejected any partition of any part of the former British Mandate territory. However, while they had previously rejected the UN's internationalisation plan, most of the Arab delegations at the Lausanne Conference of 1949 accepted a permanent international regime (called \"corpus separatum\") under United Nations supervision as proposed in Resolutions 181 and 194, and objected to Israel moving to (West) Jerusalem its national institutions, namely the Knesset, the presidential, legislative, judicial and administrative offices.\n\nThe Palestinian leadership now claims the \"1967 borders\" as the borders of the Palestinian territories, and includes East Jerusalem as part of these territories. Despite recognition of Israel, and its support in 1949 of \"corpus separatum\", it had never conceded sovereignty of Jerusalem. In the Israel–Jordan peace treaty, Jordan conceded all claims to the West Bank, including Jerusalem, other than the Muslim holy places.\n\nThe Palestinian National Authority views East Jerusalem as occupied Palestinian territory, in line with UNSC Resolution 242. The PNA claims all of East Jerusalem, including the Temple Mount, as the capital of the State of Palestine, and claims that West Jerusalem is also subject to final status negotiations, but is willing to consider alternative solutions, such as making Jerusalem an open city. In the Palestine Liberation Organization's Palestinian Declaration of Independence of 1988, Jerusalem is called the capital of the State of Palestine. In 2000 the Palestinian Authority passed a law designating the city as such, and in 2002 this law was ratified by Chairman Yasser Arafat. The official position of the PNA is that Jerusalem should be an open city, with no physical partition and that Palestine would guarantee freedom of worship, access and the protection of sites of religious significance.\n\nThe United Nations considers East Jerusalem to be part of Israeli-occupied territories or occupied Palestinian territory. It envisions Jerusalem eventually becoming the capital of two states, Israel and Palestine.\n\nUnited Nations General Assembly resolution 181 (II), passed on 29 November 1947, provided for the full territorial internationalisation of Jerusalem: \"The City of Jerusalem shall be established as a \"corpus separatum\" under a special international regime and shall be administered by the United Nations.\" The resolution received the consent of the Jewish leadership in Palestine, but it was rejected by the Arabs. This position was restated in the wake of the 1948 Arab–Israeli War in of 1949. According to a 1979 report prepared for and under the guidance of the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, it would appear that the United Nations has maintained the principle that the legal status of Jerusalem is that of a \"corpus separatum\".\n\nThe United Nations General Assembly does not recognize Israel's proclamation of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel, which is, for example, reflected in the wording of General Assembly Resolution 63/30 of 2009 which states that \"any actions taken by Israel, the occupying Power, to impose its laws, jurisdiction and administration on the Holy City of Jerusalem are illegal and therefore null and void and have no validity whatsoever, and calls upon Israel to cease all such illegal and unilateral measures.\"<ref name=\"GA63/30\"></ref>\n\nAlthough the General Assembly cannot pass legally binding resolutions over international issues, the United Nations Security Council, which has the authority to do so, has passed a total of six Security Council resolutions on Israel on the matter, including UNSC resolution 478 which affirmed that the enactment of the 1980 Basic Jerusalem Law declaring unified Jerusalem as Israel's \"eternal and indivisible\" capital, was a violation of international law. The resolution advised member states to withdraw their diplomatic representation from the city. The Security Council, as well as the UN in general, has consistently affirmed the position that East Jerusalem (but not west Jerusalem) is occupied Palestinian territory subject to the provisions of the Fourth Geneva Convention. The International Court of Justice in its 2004 Advisory opinion on the \"Legal Consequences of the Construction of a Wall in the Occupied Palestinian Territory\" described East Jerusalem as \"occupied Palestinian territory\".\n\nThe UN has never revoked resolutions 181 and 194, and maintains the official position that Jerusalem should be placed under a special international regime.<ref name=\"Resolution_66/18\">UNGA, 30 November 2011, \"Resolution adopted by the General Assembly, 66/18. Jerusalem\" (doc.nr. A/RES/66/18 d.d. 26-01-2012)\"Recalling its resolution 181 (II) of 29 November 1947, in particular its provisions regarding the City of Jerusalem,\"\"Reiterates its determination that any actions taken by Israel, the occupying Power, to impose its laws, jurisdiction and administration on the Holy City of Jerusalem are illegal and therefore null and void and have no validity whatsoever,\"</ref> Nevertheless, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said on 28 October 2009 that Jerusalem must be the capital of both Israel and Palestine.\n\nThe European Union currently views the status of Jerusalem as that of a \"corpus separatum\" including both East and West Jerusalem as outlined in United Nations Resolution 181. In the interest of achieving a peaceful solution to the Arab–Israeli conflict, it believes a fair solution should be found regarding the issue of Jerusalem in the context of the two-state solution set out in the Road Map. Taking into account the political and religious concerns of all parties involved, it envisions the city serving as the shared capital of Israel and Palestine.\n\nThe EU opposes measures which would prejudge the outcome of permanent status negotiations on Jerusalem, basing its policy on the principles set out in UN Security Council Resolution 242, notably the impossibility of acquisition of territory by force. It will not recognise any changes to pre-1967 borders with regard to Jerusalem, unless agreed between the parties. It has also called for the reopening of Palestinian institutions in East Jerusalem, in accordance with the Road Map, in particular Orient House and the Chamber of Commerce, and has called on the Israeli government to \"cease all discriminatory treatment of Palestinians in East Jerusalem, especially concerning work permits, access to education and health services, building permits, house demolitions, taxation and expenditure.\"\n\nOn 13 December 2017, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), consisting of 57 primarily Muslim countries, declared East Jerusalem as the capital of the State of Palestine and invited “all countries to recognise the State of Palestine and East Jerusalem as its occupied capital.”\n\nOn 6 April 2017, the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs issued a statement saying, \"We reaffirm our commitment to the UN-approved principles for a Palestinian-Israeli settlement, which include the status of East Jerusalem as the capital of the future Palestinian state. At the same time, we must state that in this context we view West Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.\" Some commentators interpreted this as a Russian recognition of Israel's claim to West Jerusalem, while others understood the statement as a Russian intention to recognize West Jerusalem as Israel's in the context of a peace deal with the Palestinians.\n\nIn 2011, Russian president Medvedev stated Russia had recognized the State of Palestine with East Jerusalem as its capital already in 1988, and had not changed that view.\n\nRussia has taken positions against Israeli settlement construction in East Jerusalem. In March 2010, the Russian Foreign Ministry denounced Israeli plans to construct homes for Jewish settlers in East Jerusalem, calling the measure \"unacceptable\" and in opposition to \"internationally acknowledged reconciliation proceedings\". In January 2011, reaffirming Russia's recognition of the State of Palestine, President Dmitry Medvedev said Russia \"supported and will support the inalienable right of the Palestinian people to an independent state with its capital in East Jerusalem.\"\n\nOn 14 June 2018, Russia held, for the first time, its annual Russia Day reception in Jerusalem, a year after declaring that west Jerusalem is Israel's capital. Until then, the annual reception has been held in the Tel Aviv area.\n\nWhen Israel was founded, the position of the United States was that its recognition of Israel did not imply a particular view on the status of Jerusalem. The US voted for the UN Partition Plan in November 1947, which provided for the establishment of an international regime for the city, and Resolution 194 in 1948, following the 1948 Arab-Israeli War. But the US voted against in 1949 which reaffirmed that Jerusalem be established a \"corpus separatum\" under a special international regime to be administered by the UN, because the US regarded the plan as no longer feasible after both Israel and Jordan had established a political presence in the city. Since then the US position has been that final status of Jerusalem be resolved through negotiations, and it did not recognize Jerusalem as Israel's capital prior to President Donald Trump's announcement on 6 December 2017.\n\nThe US opposed Israel's declaration of Jerusalem as its capital in 1949 and opposed Jordan's plan to make Jerusalem its second capital announced in 1950. It opposed Israel's annexation of East Jerusalem after the 1967 war,\nand proposed that the future of Jerusalem should be the subject of a negotiated settlement. Subsequent administrations have maintained the same policy that Jerusalem's future not be the subject of unilateral actions that could prejudice negotiations, such as by moving the US embassy from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem.\n\nPresident George H. W. Bush (1989–1993) said the US does not believe that new settlements should be built in East Jerusalem, and that it does not want to see Jerusalem \"divided\".\n\nIn 1995, Congress passed the Jerusalem Embassy Act which declared as a statement of policy that \"Jerusalem should be recognized as the capital of the State of Israel.\"\n\nIn 2008, then-Democratic candidate Barack Obama called Jerusalem the 'capital of Israel'. On 4 June 2008, Obama told the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC), in his first foreign policy speech after winning the Democratic nomination the day before, that \"Jerusalem will remain the capital of Israel, and it must remain undivided.\" However, the then-senator and presidential hopeful backtracked almost immediately. In 2010, the Obama administration condemned expansion of Gilo and Ramat Shlomo as well as evictions and house demolitions affecting Palestinians living in East Jerusalem.\n\nThe Foreign Relations Authorization Act of 2002, provided: \"For purposes of the registration of birth, certification of nationality, or issuance of a passport of a United States citizen born in the city of Jerusalem, the Secretary shall, upon the request of the citizen or the citizen’s legal guardian, record the place of birth as Israel.\" However, neither President George W. Bush nor Barack Obama complied with it. A federal appeals court declared the 2002 law invalid on 23 July 2013. On 8 June 2015, the Supreme Court of the United States struck down Section 214(d) of the Foreign Relations Authorization Act, FY 2003 in a 6-3 ruling, citing the law as an overreach of Congressional power into foreign policy.\n\nBefore moving its embassy to Jerusalem in 2018, the United States maintained a consulate there that dealt primarily with the Palestinian Authority, while relations with the Government of Israel were handled from the U.S. embassy in Tel Aviv.\n\nOn 6 December 2017, President Donald Trump's administration officially recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. Trump added that the State Department would initiate the process of building a new US embassy in Jerusalem. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson later clarified that the President's statement \"did not indicate any final status for Jerusalem\" and \"was very clear that the final status, including the borders, would be left to the two parties to negotiate and decide.\" State Department officials said on 8 December that there will not be any immediate practical changes in how the US deals with Jerusalem. This includes the United States policy of not listing a country on the passports of citizens born in Jerusalem. On 8 December, Assistant Secretary of State David M. Satterfield said \"There has been no change in our policy with respect to consular practice or passport issuance at this time.\" When asked what country the Western Wall is in, State Department spokeswoman Heather Nauert said \"We're not taking any position on the overall boundaries. We are recognizing Jerusalem as the capital of Israel\".\n\nThe official opening of the US embassy in Jerusalem on 14 May was attended by officials of 33 countries, mainly from Latin America, Europe, Africa and Asia.\n\nThe United Kingdom position on Jerusalem states that \"Jerusalem was supposed to be a ‘corpus separatum’, or international city administered by the UN. But this was never set up: immediately after the UNGA resolution partitioning Palestine, Israel occupied West Jerusalem and Jordan occupied East Jerusalem (including the Old City). We recognised the de facto control of Israel and Jordan, but not sovereignty. In 1967, Israel occupied E Jerusalem, which we continue to consider is under illegal military occupation by Israel. Our Embassy to Israel is in Tel Aviv, not Jerusalem. In E Jerusalem we have a Consulate-General, with a Consul-General who is not accredited to any state: this is an expression of our view that no state has sovereignty over Jerusalem.\"\n\nThe UK believes that the city's status has yet to be determined, and maintains that it should be settled in an overall agreement between the parties concerned, but considers that the city should not again be divided. The Declaration of Principles and the Interim Agreement, signed by Israel and the PLO on 13 September 1993 and 28 September 1995 respectively, left the issue of the status of Jerusalem to be decided in the ‘permanent status’ negotiations between the two parties.\n\nIn 2012, the UK Press Complaints Commission initially ruled that the newspaper \"The Guardian\" had not acted wrongly in writing that \"Jerusalem is not the capital of Israel; Tel Aviv is,\" but this was later overturned. In the latter ruling, the UK Press Complaints Commission ruled that \"The Guardian\" was wrong to refer to the Israeli capital unequivocally as Tel Aviv, saying that this \"had the potential to mislead readers and raised a breach of... the Editors’ Code of Practice.\" In addition, prior to the latter ruling, \"The Guardian\" retracted their statement, saying, \"While it was therefore right to issue a correction to make clear Israel's designation of Jerusalem as its capital is not recognised by the international community, we accept that it is wrong to state that Tel Aviv – the country's financial and diplomatic centre – is the capital\".\n\nThe Vatican has had a long-held position on Jerusalem and its concern for the protection of the Christian holy places in the Holy Land which predates the Palestinian Mandate. The Vatican's historic claims and interests, as well as those of Italy and France were based on the former Protectorate of the Holy See and the French Protectorate of Jerusalem, which were incorporated in article 95 of the Treaty of Sèvres (1920), which incorporated the Balfour Declaration, but also provided: \"it being clearly understood that nothing shall be done which may prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-Jewish communities in Palestine\". The Balfour Declaration and the proviso were also incorporated in the Palestinian Mandate (1923), but which also provided in articles 13 and 14 for an international commission to resolve competing claims on the holy places. These claimants had officially lost all capitulation rights by article 28 of the Treaty of Lausanne (1923). However, Britain never gave any effect to Mandate provisions arts 13 & 14. During the drafting of proposals that culminated in the United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine (also known as Resolution 181) in 1947, the historic claims of the Vatican, Italy and France were revived, and expressed as the call for the special international regime for the city of Jerusalem. This was also confirmed in UN General Assembly Resolution 194 in 1948, which maintained the position that Jerusalem be made an international city, under United Nations supervision. The Vatican's official position on the status of Jerusalem was in favour of an internationalization of Jerusalem, in order to keep the holy place away from either Israeli or Arab sovereignty.\n\nPope Pius XII supported this idea in the 1949 encyclical \"Redemptoris nostri cruciatus\". It was proposed again during the papacies of John XXIII, Paul VI, John Paul II and Benedict XVI. The Vatican reiterated this position in 2012, recognizing Jerusalem's \"identity and sacred character\" and calling for freedom of access to the city's holy places to be protected by \"an internationally guaranteed special statute\". After the US recognized Jerusalem as Israel's capital in December 2017, Pope Francis repeated the Vatican’s position: \"I wish to make a heartfelt appeal to ensure that everyone is committed to respecting the status quo of the city, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations.\"\n\n\n\nAfter Israel passed the Jerusalem Law in 1980, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 478, which called upon UN member states to withdraw their diplomatic missions from the city. Thirteen countries — Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, the Netherlands, Panama, Uruguay and Venezuela — moved their embassies from Jerusalem primarily to Tel Aviv. Costa Rica and El Salvador moved theirs back to Jerusalem in 1984. Costa Rica moved its embassy back to Tel Aviv in 2006 followed by El Salvador a few weeks later. No international embassy remained in Jerusalem, although Bolivia had its embassy in Mevasseret Zion, a suburb west of the city, until relations were severed in 2009.\n\nVarious countries recognized Israel as a state in the 1940s and 1950s, without recognizing Israeli sovereignty over West Jerusalem. There is an international \"sui generis\" consular corps in Jerusalem. It is commonly referred to as the \"Consular Corps of the Corpus Separatum\". The states that have maintained consulates in Jerusalem say that it was part of Mandate Palestine, and in a \"de jure\" sense has not since become part of any other sovereignty. The Netherlands maintains an office in Jerusalem serving mainly Israeli citizens. Other foreign governments base consulate general offices in Jerusalem, including Greece, Spain, the United Kingdom and the United States. Since the President of Israel resides in Jerusalem and confirms the foreign diplomats, the ambassadors have to travel from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem to submit letters of credentials upon being appointed.\n\nOn 16 May 2018, Guatemala reopened its embassy in Jerusalem, making it the second country to move its embassy to the city, after the US. Paraguay has also moved its embassy to Jerusalem in May. Panama has said it will move its embassy as part of the peace process, and that it recognises West Jerusalem as part of Israel. \n\nOn 6 September 2018, Paraguay announced that plans to move the embassy to Jerusalem will be scrapped as the embassy is relocated to Tel Aviv. This move was part of Mario Abdo Benítez's disagreements over the embassy relocation.\n\nUntil May 2018, the United States maintained its embassy in Tel Aviv, and a consulate general in Jerusalem as part of the \"Consular Corps of the Corpus Separatum\". Under the United States Constitution the President has exclusive authority to recognize foreign sovereignty over territory. The US Congress has adopted a number of concurrent resolutions which support recognition of a united Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and urging Jerusalem as the site of the US embassy. The resolutions expressed the \"sense\" of the House or Senate but had no binding effect. The Jerusalem Embassy Act of 1995 reads \"Jerusalem should be recognized as the capital of the State of Israel; and the United States Embassy in Israel should be established in Jerusalem no later than 31 May 1999\". The Justice Department Office of Legal Counsel concluded that the provisions of the bill \"invade exclusive presidential authorities in the field of foreign affairs and are unconstitutional.\" Experts in the field of foreign relations law have said that, faced with congressional \"force majeure\", the State Department could simply construct another embassy in Jerusalem and continue to argue that the US does not recognize Jerusalem as the capital. The US Consulate was given a lot in the neighborhood of Talpiot in 1989 with a 99-year lease agreement with the Israeli government and relocated there in 2002. On 14 May 2018, the US reclassified its Jerusalem consulate as the US embassy in Jerusalem.\n\n"}
{"id": "13566419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13566419", "title": "Tasmanian wine", "text": "Tasmanian wine\n\nTasmanian wine is wine produced in the Australian state of Tasmania. Located at a more southerly latitude than the rest of Australia's wine regions, Tasmania has a cooler climate and the potential to make distinctly different wines than in the rest of the country. The area grows primarily Pinot noir, Chardonnay and Sauvignon blanc, with some smaller plantings of Riesling, Pinot gris and Cabernet Sauvignon. Global warming has had positive effects on the Tasmanian wine industry, allowing most of the grapes in the past few vintages (as of 2005) to ripen fully and produce more vibrant wine.\n\nTasmania was one of the earliest regions in Australia to be planted with vines and was even the source of cuttings for the first vineyards in Victoria and South Australia. It was also home to some of the earliest wines to gain attention outside of the county with a fortified dessert wine by Bartholomew Broughton being praised by one English writer as Australia's equivalent to Port.\n\nBeing an island, Tasmania has a temperate climate that is marked by the strong winds of the Indian Ocean, Bass Strait and Tasman Sea. These winds necessitate the use of large screens around the perimeter of vineyards in order to protect the grapevines. The cool climate of the regions gives way to a late harvest typically around April. The effects of global warming have caused the area's grapes to progressively ripen slightly earlier which has allowed most of the recent vintages to be successful. It has opened up the prospects of increasing red wine production with Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot and Shiraz.\n\nThe majority of Tasmania's vineyard are located near the cities of Launceston in the north and Hobart in the south. Most of the area of Tasmania is well suited for the production of dry, aromatic white wines but the warmer Coal River Valley and Freycinet Peninsula are starting to distinguish themselves with red wines.\n\n\nThe region's cool climate has made Tasmania a good location for the production of sparkling wine with many of Australia's mainland producers having production facilities on the island to make the base \"cuvée\" that is later transported to the winery's main facility. Even some French Champagne houses have taken notice with companies like Moët et Chandon using some Tasmanian grapes for the Australian sparkling wines. Tasmanian Rieslings have begun to gain notice for their closer similarities to a Mosel Riesling than that which is typically produced in Australia.\n\nTasmania enjoys a global reputation as a leading producer of premium cool climate wines, winning high praise and accolades from wine judges and critics alike.\n\nTerroir\n\nThe Tasmanian landscape is dominated by dolerite-capped mountains that shelter the state’s wine regions from high winds and rainfall. On the lower slopes, the vineyard soils are formed from ancient sandstones and mudstones and also from more recent river sediments and igneous rocks of volcanic origin.\n\nCool climate advantage\n\nTasmania has a moderate maritime climate, cooled by prevailing westerly winds off the Southern Ocean, providing conditions free of extremes in temperature. Mild spring and summer temperatures, with warm autumn days and cool nights allow the grapes to ripen slowly on the vine, resulting in maximum varietal flavour development. This is achieved without losing that essential natural acidity that gives wine both freshness and balance.\n\nVintage\n\nThe Tasmanian vintage usually begins from mid-March, at the peak of the dry autumn when ripening occurs, to late May before the risk of frost and rain.\n\nVintage variations are greater in Tasmania than any other Australian region. This vintage variation is reflected in each unique wine and makes for an insightful tasting of multiple vintages from the same producer.\n\nTasmanian wine statistics\n\nThe following provides an overview of the Tasmanian wine sector. In Tasmania there are approximately:\n\nThe majority of Tasmania’s grapes are grown in:\n\nCool climate grape varieties most common in the state are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33070229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33070229", "title": "The Great Picture", "text": "The Great Picture\n\n, The Great Picture (111 feet (34 m) wide and 32 feet (9.8 m) high) holds the Guinness World Record for the largest print photograph, and the camera with which it was made holds a record for being the world’s largest. The photograph was taken in 2006 as part of the Legacy Project, a photographic compilation and record of the history of Marine Corps Air Station El Toro as it is being transformed into the Orange County Great Park. The project used the abandoned F-18 hangar #115 at the closed fighter base in Irvine, California, United States, as the world's largest pinhole camera. The aim was to make a black-and-white negative print of the Marine Corps air station with its control tower and runways, with the San Joaquin Hills in the background. The photograph was unveiled on July 12, 2006 during a reception held in the hangar and was exhibited for the first time at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, California, on September 6, 2007.\n\nSix photographer artists, Jerry Burchfield, Mark Chamberlain, Jacques Garnier, Rob Johnson, Douglas McCulloh, and Clayton Spada plus approximately 400 assistants built the world's largest pinhole camera in building #115 at El Toro using six mil black visqueen, of foam gap filler, of wide black Gorilla Tape and of black spray paint to make the hangar light-tight. The camera measured 160 ft (48.76 m) wide x 45 ft (13.71 m) high x 80 ft (24.38 m) deep.\n\nA seamless piece of muslin cloth was made light sensitive by coating it with of gelatin silver halide emulsion and then hung from the ceiling at a distance of about from a pinhole, just under in diameter and situated above ground level on the hangar's metal door. The distance between the pinhole and the cloth was determined to be for best coverage, and the exposure time was calculated at 35 minutes.\n\nThe hangar-turned-camera recorded a panoramic image of what was on the other side of the door using the centuries-old principle of \"camera obscura\" or pinhole camera. An image of the former El Toro Marine Corps Air Station appeared upside down and flipped left to right on film after being projected through the tiny hole in the hangar's metal door.\n\nThe opaque negative image print was developed by 80 volunteers during five hours in a vinyl pool liner custom tray, the size of an Olympic swimming pool, with of traditional developer and of fixer pumped into the tray using high volume pumps. The photograph was then washed using fire hoses attached to two fire hydrants. The finished print is wide and high with an area of 3,505.75 square-foot (325.44 m²).\n\n\"The Great Picture\" has been exhibited in the following venues:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36388955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36388955", "title": "USA-92", "text": "USA-92\n\nUSA-92, also known as GPS IIA-12, GPS II-21, GPS SVN-39, and NAVSTAR 39, is an American navigation satellite which forms part of the Global Positioning System. It was the twelfth of nineteen Block IIA GPS satellites to be launched.\n\nUSA-92 was launched at 13:27:00 UTC on 26 June 1993, atop a Delta II carrier rocket, flight number D221, flying in the 7925-9.5 configuration. The launch took place from Launch Complex 17A at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, and placed USA-92 into a transfer orbit. The satellite raised itself into medium Earth orbit using a Star-37XFP apogee motor.\n\nOn 27 July 1993, USA-92 was in an orbit with a perigee of , an apogee of , a period of 717.96 minutes, and 54.7 degrees of inclination to the equator. It broadcasts the PRN 09 signal, and operates in slot 1 of plane A of the GPS constellation. The satellite has a mass of . It had a design life of 7.5 years; however, it was kept in service for over 20 years before finally decommissioned from service on May 19, 2014.\n\nFollowing decommissioning, it was subsequently placed in a disposal orbit approximately 1000 km above the operational constellation on September 21, 2015.\n"}
{"id": "15546705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15546705", "title": "United States of Europe", "text": "United States of Europe\n\nThe United States of Europe, the European state, the European superstate, the European federation and Federal Europe are names used to refer to several similar hypothetical scenarios of the unification of Europe as a single sovereign federation of states (hence superstate), similar to the United States of America, both as projected by writers of speculative fiction and science fiction and by political scientists, politicians, geographers, historians and futurologists. At present, while the European Union (EU) is not officially a federation, various academic observers regard it as having the characteristics of a federal system.\n\nSpecifically, the term \"United States of Europe\" – as a direct comparison with the United States of America – would imply that all the European states would acquire a status similar to that of a U.S. state, becoming constituent parts of a European federation acting as one country.\n\nTraditionally, the term \"European Superstate\", particularly within the United Kingdom, is used as a criticism of further integration into the EU with the term implying a forced loss of national sovereignty, although the term has occasionally been used positively in the British press.\n\nVarious versions of the concept have developed over the centuries, many of which are mutually incompatible (inclusion or exclusion of the United Kingdom, secular or religious union, etc.). Such proposals include those from Bohemian King George of Podebrady in 1464; Duc de Sully of France in the seventeenth century; and the plan of William Penn, the Quaker founder of Pennsylvania, for the establishment of a \"European Dyet, Parliament or Estates\". George Washington also allegedly voiced support for a \"United States of Europe\", although the authenticity of this statement has been questioned.\n\nFelix Markham notes how, during a conversation on St. Helena, Napoleon Bonaparte remarked: \"Europe thus divided into nationalities freely formed and free internally, peace between States would have become easier: the United States of Europe would become a possibility\". \"United States of Europe\" was also the name of the concept presented by Wojciech Jastrzębowski in \"About eternal peace between the nations\", published 31 May 1831. The project consisted of 77 articles. The envisioned United States of Europe was to be an international organisation rather than a superstate. Giuseppe Mazzini was an early advocate of a \"United States of Europe\" and regarded European unification as a logical continuation of the unification of Italy. Mazzini created the Young Europe movement.\n\nThe term \"United States of Europe\" () was used by Victor Hugo, including during a speech at the International Peace Congress held in Paris in 1849. Hugo favoured the creation of \"a supreme, sovereign senate, which will be to Europe what parliament is to England\" and said: \"A day will come when all nations on our continent will form a European brotherhood ... A day will come when we shall see ... the United States of America and the United States of Europe face to face, reaching out for each other across the seas\". Hugo planted a tree in the grounds of his residence on the Island of Guernsey and was noted in saying that when this tree matured the United States of Europe would have come into being. This tree to this day is still growing in the gardens of Maison de Hauteville, St. Peter Port, Guernsey, Victor Hugo's residence during his exile from France.\n\nIn 1867, Giuseppe Garibaldi and John Stuart Mill joined Victor Hugo at a congress of the League for Peace and Freedom in Geneva. Here the anarchist Mikhail Bakunin stated: \"That in order to achieve the triumph of liberty, justice and peace in the international relations of Europe, and to render civil war impossible among the various peoples which make up the European family, only a single course lies open: to constitute the United States of Europe\". The French National Assembly also called for a United States of Europe on 1 March 1871.\n\nFollowing the catastrophe of the First World War, some thinkers and visionaries again began to float the idea of a politically unified Europe. In 1923, the Austrian Count Richard von Coudenhove-Kalergi founded the Pan-Europa Movement and hosted the First Paneuropean Congress, held in Vienna in 1926. The aim was for a Europe based on the principles of liberalism, Christianity and social responsibility. Before the communist revolution in Russia, Leon Trotsky foresaw a \"Federated Republic of Europe — the United States of Europe\", created by the proletariat.\n\nIn 1929, Aristide Briand, French Prime Minister, gave a speech before the Assembly of the League of Nations in which he proposed the idea of a federation of European nations based on solidarity and in the pursuit of economic prosperity and political and social co-operation. At the League's request, Briand presented a \"Memorandum on the organisation of a system of European Federal Union\" in 1930. In 1931, French politician Édouard Herriot and British civil servant Arthur Salter both penned books titled \"The United States of Europe\".\nAfter the First World War, Winston Churchill had seen continental Europe as a source of threats and sought to avoid Britain's involvement in European conflicts. On 15 February 1930, Churchill commented in the American journal \"The Saturday Evening Post\" that a \"European Union\" was possible between continental states, but without Britain's involvement: \nDuring the 1930s, Churchill was influenced by and became an advocate of the ideas of Richard von Coudenhove-Kalergi and his Paneuropean Union, though Churchill did not advocate Britain's membership of such a union. (Churchill revisited the idea in 1946).\n\nDuring the World War II victories of Nazi Germany in 1940, Wilhelm II stated that \"the hand of God is creating a new world & working miracles. ... We are becoming the United States of Europe under German leadership, a united European Continent\".\n\nIn 1941, the Italian anti-fascists Altiero Spinelli and Ernesto Rossi finished writing the Ventotene Manifesto, encouraging a federation of European states.\n\nChurchill used the term \"United States of Europe\" in a speech delivered on 19 September 1946 at the University of Zurich, Switzerland. In this speech given after the end of the Second World War, Churchill concluded: \n\nChurchill's was a more cautious approach (\"the unionist position\") to European integration than was the continental approach that was known as \"the federalist position\". The Federalists advocated full integration with a constitution, while the Unionist United Europe Movement advocated a consultative body and the Federalists prevailed at the Congress of Europe. The primary accomplishment of the Congress of Europe was the European Court of Human Rights, which predates the European Union.\n\nBy the 1950s and 1960s, Europe saw the emergence of two different projects, the European Free Trade Association and the much more political European Economic Community. \n\nIndividuals such as the former German Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer have said (in 2000) that he believes that the EU must in the end become a single federation, with its political leader chosen by direct elections among all of its citizens. However, claims that the (then) proposed Treaty of Nice aimed to create a \"European superstate\" were rejected by former United Kingdom European Commissioner Chris Patten and by many member-state governments. (, the post \"President of the European Union\" does not exist, nor are there any plans that it should do so).\n\nThe member states of the European Union do have many common policies within the EU and on behalf of the EU that are sometimes suggestive of a single state. It has a common executive (the European Commission), a single High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy, a common European Security and Defence Policy, a supreme court (European Court of Justicebut only in matters of European Union law) and an intergovernmental research organisation (the EIROforum with members like CERN). The euro is often referred to as the \"single European currency\", which has been officially adopted by nineteen EU countries while seven other member countries of the European Union have linked their currencies to the euro in ERM II. In addition a number of European territories outside the EU have adopted the euro unofficially such as Montenegro, the Republic of Kosovo, Monaco, San Marino, the Vatican City and Andorra.\n\nSeveral pan-European institutions exist separate from the EU. The European Space Agency counts almost all the EU member nations in its membership, but it is independent of the EU and its membership includes nations that are not EU members, notably Switzerland and Norway. The European Court of Human Rights (not to be confused with the European Court of Justice) is also independent of the EU. It is an element of the Council of Europe, which like ESA counts EU members and non-members alike in its membership.\n\nAt present, the European Union is a free association of sovereign states designed to further their shared aims. Other than the vague aim of \"ever closer union\" in the Solemn Declaration on European Union, the EU (meaning its member governments) has no current policy to create either a federation or a confederation. However, in the past Jean Monnet, a person associated with the EU and its predecessor the European Economic Community, did make such proposals. A wide range of other terms are in use to describe the possible future political structure of Europe as a whole and/or the EU. Some of them, such as \"United Europe\", are used often and in such varied contexts, but they have no definite constitutional status.\n\nIn the United States, the concept enters serious discussions of whether a unified Europe is feasible and what impact increased European unity would have on the United States of America's relative political and economic power. Glyn Morgan, a Harvard University associate professor of government and social studies, uses it unapologetically in the title of his book \"The Idea of a European Superstate: Public Justification and European Integration.\" While Morgan's text focuses on the security implications of a unified Europe, a number of other recent texts focus on the economic implications of such an entity. Important recent texts here include T.R. Reid's \"The United States of Europe\" and Jeremy Rifkin's \"The European Dream.\" Neither the \"National Review\" nor the \"Chronicle of Higher Education\" doubt the appropriateness of the term in their reviews.\n\nVarious federalist organisations have been created over time supporting the idea of a federal Europe. These include the Union of European Federalists, the European Movement International, the (former) European Federalist Party and Stand Up For Europe.\n\nThe Union of European Federalists (UEF) is a European non-governmental organisation campaigning for a Federal Europe. It consists of 20 constituent organisations and it has been active at the European, national and local levels for more than 50 years. A young branch called the Young European Federalists also exists in 30 countries of Europe.\n\nThe European Movement International is a lobbying association that coordinates the efforts of associations and national councils with the goal of promoting European integration, and disseminating information about it.\n\nThe European Federalist Party was a pro-European, pan-European and federalist political party from 2011 to 2016 which advocated further integration of the European Union.\n\nAs the successor movement of the European Federalist Party, Stand Up For Europe is a pan-European NGO that advocates the foundation of a European Federation. Contrary to movements like the UEF or the former EFP, Stand Up for Europe does not command any national levels anymore, but only consists of regional city teams and the European level.\n\nVolt Europa is a pan-European, progressive movement that stands for a new and inclusive way of doing politics and that wants to bring change for European citizens. The party claims that a new pan-European approach is needed to overcome current and future challenges, such as - among others - climate change, economic inequality, migration, international conflict, terrorism, and the impact of the technological revolution on jobs. Volt says that national parties are powerless in front of these challenges, because they go beyond national borders and need to be tackled by Europeans, as one people. As a transnational party, it believes it can help the European people unite, create a shared vision and understanding, exchange good practices across the continent, and come up with working policies.\n\nFollowing the negative referendums about the European Constitution in France and the Netherlands, the Belgian ex prime minister Guy Verhofstadt released in November 2005 his book, written in Dutch, \"Verenigde Staten van Europa\" (\"United States of Europe\") in which he claims – based on the results of a Eurobarometer questionnaire – that the average European citizen wants more Europe. He thinks a federal Europe should be created between those states that wish to have a federal Europe (as a form of enhanced cooperation). In other words, a core federal Europe would exist within the current EU. He also states that these core states should federalise the following five policy areas: a European social-economic policy, technology cooperation, a common justice and security policy, a common diplomacy and a European army. Following the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon (December 2009) by all member states of the EU, the outline of a common diplomatic service, known as the External Action Service of the European Union (EEAS), was set in place. On 20 February 2009, the European Parliament also voted in favour of the creation of Synchronised Armed Forces Europe (SAFE) as a first step towards a forming a true European military force. \n\nVerhofstadt's book was awarded the first Europe Book Prize, which is organised by the association Esprit d'Europe and supported by former President of the European Commission Jacques Delors. The prize money was €20,000. The prize was declared at the European Parliament in Brussels on 5 December 2007. Swedish crime fiction writer Henning Mankell was the president of the jury of European journalists for choosing the first recipient.\n\nWhile receiving the reward, Verhofstadt said: \"When I wrote this book, I in fact meant it as a provocation against all those who didn't want the European Constitution. Fortunately, in the end a solution was found with the treaty, that was approved\".\n\nIn 2012, Viviane Reding, the Luxembourgish Vice-President of the European Commission called in a speech in Passau Germany and in a series of articles and interviews for the establishment of the United States of Europe as a way to strengthen the unity of Europe.\n\nThe Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi said in 2014 that under his leadership Italy would use its six-month-long presidency of the European Union to push for the establishment of a United States of Europe.\n\nIn December 2017, Martin Schulz, who was then the new leader of the German Social Democratic Party, called for a new constitutional treaty for a \"United States of Europe\". He proposed that this constitution should be written by \"a convention that includes civil society and the people\" and that any state that declined to accept this proposed constitution should have to leave the bloc. The Guardian's view was that his proposal was \"likely to be met with some resistance from [Angela] Merkel and other EU leaders\". On that day he also stated that he would like to see a \"United States of Europe\" by 2025.\n\nIn 1992, Dutch businessman Freddy Heineken, after consulting with historians of the University of Leiden, Henk Wesseling and Willem van den Doel published a brochure \"United States of Europe, Eurotopia?\". In his work he put forward the idea of creating the United States of Europe as a confederation of 75 states that would be formed according to an ethnic and linguistic principle with a population of 5 to 10 million people. It is noteworthy that in their work in 1992 the authors divided the territory of Yugoslavia and Czechoslovakia, which, in time, disintegrated almost identically to the plan that the brochure had described.\n\nThe United States of Europe is widely hypotheticised, fictionalised or depicted as a superpower that is as powerful as, or more powerful than, the United States. Some people, such as T.R. Reid, Andrew Reding and Mark Leonard, believe that the power of the hypothetical United States of Europe will rival that of the United States in the twenty-first century. Leonard cites seven factors: Europe's large population, Europe's large economy, Europe's low inflation rates, Europe's central location in the world, the unpopularity and perceived failure of American foreign policy in recent years and certain European countries' highly developed social organisation and quality of life (when measured in terms such as hours worked per week and income distribution). Some experts claim that Europe has developed a sphere of influence called the \"Eurosphere\".\n\nNorwegian foreign policy scholar and commentator Asle Toje has argued that the power and reach of the European Union more closely resembles a small power. In his book \"The EU As a Small Power\", he argues that the EU is a response to and function of Europe's unique historical experience in that the EU contains the remnants of not one but five past European orders. Although the 1990s and early 2000s have shown that there is policy space for greater EU engagement in European security, the EU has been unable to meet these expectations.\n\nAsle Toje expresses particular concerns over the EU's security and defence dimension Common Security and Defence Policy, where attempts at pooling resources and forming a political consensus have failed to generate the results expected. These trends, combined with shifts in global power patterns, are seen to have been accompanied by a shift in EU strategic thinking whereby great power ambitions have been scaled down and replaced by a tendency towards hedging \"vis-à-vis\" the great powers. The author uses the case of the EUFOR intervention in Darfur and Chad to illustrate that the EU's effectiveness is hampered by a consensus–expectations gap, owing primarily to the lack of an effective decision-making mechanism. In his view, the sum of these developments is that the EU will not be a great power and is taking the place of a small power in the emerging multi-polar international order.\n\nThe European Union does not include every nation in Europe and there is no consensus among the existing member state governments towards becoming even a loose confederation. \n\nIn June 2016, the United Kingdom voted 52% to 48% to leave the European Union.\n\nAccording to Eurobarometer (2013), 69% of citizens of the EU were in favour of direct elections of the President of the European Commission and 46% support the creation of a united EU army.\n\nTwo thirds of respondents think that the EU (instead of a national government alone) should make decisions on foreign policy and more than half of respondents think that the EU should also make decisions on defense.\n\n44% of respondents support the future development of the European Union as a federation of nation states, 35% are opposed. The Nordic countries were the most negative towards a united Europe in this study, as 73% of the Nordics opposed the idea. A large majority of the people for whom the EU conjures up a positive image support the further development of the EU into a federation of nation states (56% versus 27%).\n\nIn the fictional universe of Eric Flint's best selling alternate history \"1632\" series, a United States of Europe is formed out of the Confederation of Principalities of Europe, which was composed of several German political units of the 1630s.\n\nScience fiction has made particular use of the idea: \"Incompetence\", a dystopian novel by Red Dwarf creator Rob Grant, is a murder mystery political thriller set in a federated Europe of the near future, where stupidity is a constitutionally protected right. References to a European Alliance or European Hegemony have also existed in episodes of \"\" (1987–1994). In the \"Spy High\" series of books for young adults, written by A. J. Butcher and set around the 2060s, a united Europe exists in the form of \"Europa\", and Andrew Roberts's 1995 book \"The Aachen Memorandum\" details a United States of Europe formed from a fraudulent referendum entitled the Aachen Referendum.\n\nSince the 2000s a number of computer strategy games set in the future have presented a unified European faction alongside other established military powers such as the United States and Russia. These include \"Euro Force\" (a 2006 expansion pack to \"Battlefield 2\") and \"Battlefield 2142\" (also released in 2006, with a 2007 expansion pack). In \"Battlefield 2142\" a united Europe is shown as one of the two great superpowers on Earth, the other being Asia, despite being mostly frozen in a new ice age. The disaster theme continues with \"Tom Clancy's EndWar\" (2009), in which a nuclear war between Iran and Saudi Arabia, destroying the Middle Eastern oil supply, prompts the EU to integrate further as the \"European Federation\" in 2018. One game not to make bold claims of full integration is \"Shattered Union\" (2005), set in a future civil war in the United States, with the EU portrayed as a peacekeeping force. The video game series \"Wipeout\" instead makes a clear federal reference without a military element: one of the core teams that has appeared in every game is FEISAR. This acronym stands for Federal European Industrial Science and Research. In the video game series \"Mass Effect\" set in the 22nd century, the European Union is a sovereign state.\n\nIn the backstory of the \"Fallout\" series, several European nations joined together after the end of the Second World War, becoming known as the European Commonwealth. Heavily dependent on oil imports from the Middle East, the Commonwealth began a military invasion of the region in April 2052 once oil supplies began to run dry. This marked the beginning of the Resource Wars. After the oil dried up completely in 2060 and both sides were left in ruins, the Commonwealth collapsed into civil war as member states fought over whatever resources remained. It is not specified whether the European Commonwealth is a single federated nation or just an economic bloc similar to the EU.\n\n"}
{"id": "5604261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5604261", "title": "What Satellite and Digital TV", "text": "What Satellite and Digital TV\n\nWhat Satellite and Digital TV was a satellite, terrestrial, cable and broadband television magazine published monthly in the United Kingdom by MyHobbyStore. Although the magazine was primarily targeted for the UK market, it was also sold in Europe, Africa and the Middle East.\n\nThe magazine was originally launched as What Satellite by WV Publications in May 1986, as an eight page monthly supplement with What Video magazine\nIt became a monthly magazine in May 1989, following the launch of the first Astra satellite and Sky TV, and changed its name to What Satellite TV for the October 1992 issue. WV Publications was purchased by Highbury House Communications plc in 1998, which published the title until Summer 2005 when Future Publishing acquired What Satellite TV along with the majority of the Highbury House specialist consumer titles for £30.5 million. What Satellite TV focused exclusively on satellite television, including the Astra and Eutelsat satellites and the Sky Digital platform until June 2002 when it also started to cover digital terrestrial television, including ITV Digital, Freeview and Top Up TV and renamed itself to its current name. It thereafter covered all aspects of digital TV, including broadband and internet-delivered services such as Virgin Media, BT Vision, TalkTalk TV, the BBC iPlayer and 4oD, and digital radio. The magazine incorporated listings for many years, and did so since early editions. It also included features on upcoming TV shows, film reviews and interviews.\n\nIn April 2002, What Satellite and Digital TV was the first magazine to discover secret military broadcasts of NATO spy planes over Bosnia being broadcast and received using a one metre satellite dish The United States encrypted the transmissions after the security breach was discovered.\n\nThe magazine was merged with sister title \"Satellite TV Monthly\" (formerly known as \"Satellite TV Europe\", which was purchased by Highbury in 2001) when that magazine ceased publication in 2005; starting with the June 2005 issue.\n\nThe May 2007 issue of \"What Satellite and Digital TV\" marked the 250th issue of the magazine's publication.\n\nIn July 2011, Future Publishing announced its intention to either sell or close the magazine alongside other publications due to a slump in profits. On 11 October 2011, it was announced that MyHobbyStore had purchased the magazine along with sister publications \"Hi-Fi Choice\" and \"Home Cinema Choice\".\n\nIn October and November 2014 a greatly reduced content (32 pages) plus a free Hi-Fi Choice (sister publication) was issued and subscriptions no longer being accepted.\n\nThe November issue was the last and the website redirects to Home Cinema Choice.\n\nThe magazine featured news, a letters page, reviews on satellite and terrestrial television set-top boxes, satellite dishes and gadgets, in depth features on satellite and terrestrial television technology as well as satellite television channel line-up's by satellite and TV listings, plus Certificate X, an article on censorship in the media, specifically, but not exclusively dealing with the adult satellite television industry.\n"}
{"id": "55310616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55310616", "title": "Živa istina", "text": "Živa istina\n\nŽiva istina (eng. translat. \"Whole truth\") the most influential political talk show in Montenegro. Occasionally, guests are scientists, artists, sportsmen, as well. The editor and host is Darko Šuković.\n\nFrom March 2002 to April 2012, \"Živa istina\" has been broadcasting on \"TV IN\". Next seasons were simultaneously shown on \"TV Atlas\" and \"TV Prva\", and from September 2017 it is broadcast only on \"TV Prva\" (Montenegro).\n\nFrom the very beginning, \"Živa istina\" is produced by \"Antena M\", which broadcasts the talk show through its radio program. The new air term of \"Živa istina\" is Sunday from 14 P.M.\n\nThere is almost no significant politician from the former SFRY who was not a guest in the \"Živa istina\" (Milan Kučan, Stjepan Mesić, Raif Dizdarević, Haris Silajdžić, Ejup Ganić, Milorad Dodik, Zoran Đinđić, Vojislav Šešelj, Vuk Drašković, Boris Tadić, Aleksandar Vučić, Ramush Haradinaj...)\n\nSome of the guests in the show were: Robert Gelbard, Miroslav Lajčak, Horhe Kapetanić and each of Montenegrin political leaders.\n\nAs a matter of fact, \"Živa istina\" is the only political talk show who hosted all leading politicians of its time.\n\n"}
