{"id": "4480588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4480588", "title": "Abby Rockefeller", "text": "Abby Rockefeller\n\nAbigail Aldrich \"Abby\" Rockefeller (born 1943) is an American ecologist, feminist, and member of the Rockefeller family. She is the eldest daughter of David Rockefeller and Margaret McGrath.\nDrawn to radical humanism on the behalf of women (feminism) and leftist politics, she was drawn to Marxism and was an ardent admirer of Fidel Castro and a late 1960s/early 1970s radical feminist who briefly belonged to the organization Female Liberation Front (not to be confused with a much later group called Female Liberation run by the Trotskyite SWP) before it changed its name to Cell 16. She joined Cell 16 (founded in 1968) in 1969 to work with Betsy Warrior, Roxanne Dunbar, Dana Densmore, Jayne West and others who were providing ground-breaking feminist analyses.\n\nAbby Rockefeller and Jayne West joined other members of Cell 16 in promoting self-defense for women and became skilled in karate. They set up a Tae Kwon Do studio in Boston and taught hundreds of women who, in turn, taught other women, becoming pioneers in self-defense for women. This effort was initiated in response to the frequent, if unremarked, street harassment and sexual assaults women were subjected to during this era. After reading the literature of Cell 16, especially the initial \"Journals of Female Liberation\", Abby Rockefeller decided to join them. One of the articles she contributed to the Journals of Female Liberation was Sex: The Basis of Sexism, which posited male desire to access and control female sexuality for their own ends as a driving force in sexism.\n\nAfter being infiltrated by Trotskyites and F.B.I. agents, Cell 16 disassociated from its splinter group Female Liberation, which was providing a front for Trotskyist recruiting of aspiring feminists. \nDespite her class background, Abby was subjected to many of the stinging barbs other women are subjected to. For instance, as a young girl she was told that although women did most of the cooking in the world only men could be great chefs. In her own relationships with men she often encountered the same sexist attitudes when they expressed an underlying trivialization or contempt for women's aspirations - no matter the man's class or race. Her feminism was not some dilettante's passing fad, but arose from an analysis of her lived experience. Some, mistakenly misreading her commitment to justice as vulnerability, tried to exploit her for her name or money. \n\nMore recently Abby Rockefeller has written extensively about the ineffectiveness of conventional sewage treatment and its destructive effect on water and the environment. She is also a proponent of alternative methods in dealing with human excreta, specifically by using the clivus multrum model of composting toilet rather than the conventional flush toilet.\n"}
{"id": "55707854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55707854", "title": "Afua Osei", "text": "Afua Osei\n\nAfua Osei is an entrepreneur, investor and public speaker who co-founded She Leads Africa, a media company for millennial African women.\n\nBorn in Washington, DC, Osei spent her formative years in Prince George's County, Maryland. Osei graduated cum laude from Allegheny College with degrees in Political Science and was the first student to design their own major in Black Studies. received the Faculty Prize for the Best Interdisciplinary Senior Thesis and the Ray Smock Political Science Prize for promise in local and state politics\n\nIn 2013, she graduated from the University of Chicago Booth School of Business and Harris School of Public Policy Studies with a Master of Business Administration and Master of Public Policy.\n\nAfter graduating from college, Osei participated in the Campaign Corps Fellowship, a comprehensive Democratic campaign training program, covering all aspects of running a successful political campaign sponsored by EMILY's List. She was a Fulbright Scholar in Malaysia and also served in the Office of First Lady Michelle Obama. After business school, Osei moved to Lagos, Nigeria to serve as a management consultant at McKinsey & Company providing strategy and operations expertise to clients in South Africa, Nigeria, Ghana and the United States.\n\nIn 2014, Osei co-founded She Leads Africa, a \"community for smart ambitious young African women,\" with Yasmin Belo-Osagie. She Leads Africa provides women across more than 35 countries with business and career advice and has been featured in several international publications including The Financial Times, CNN, CNBC Africa, Huffington Post, and Black Enterprise. On December 9, 2016, She Leads Africa rang the Closing Bell at the New York Stock Exchange.\n\nOsei has been recognized by Forbes Africa as one of the youngest power women in Africa (2014), named by Ventures Africa as one of the top 25 African innovators to watch in 2016 and one of the 30 Quartz Africa innovators in 2017. She was selected as a judge for the Chivas Venture competition, \"a global search to find and empower the next generation of young entrepreneurs determined to succeed while changing the world for the better.\" \n\nShe has been a featured speaker at TEDxEuston in London, G20 Africa Partnership Conference in Germany, Essence Festival Durban in South Africa, and Thomson Reuters Foundation Trust Conference in the UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "12309159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12309159", "title": "American Business Media", "text": "American Business Media\n\nAmerican Business Media is an association of business information providers that was founded in 1906. Currently, the association has more than 300 member companies and delivers business intelligence to industry, Madison Avenue, Wall Street and the Beltway, representing almost 5,000 print and online titles as well as 1,000 trade shows. \n\nABM also sponsors the annual Jesse H. Neal Awards, rewarding editorial excellence in business-to-business publications.\n"}
{"id": "13292275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13292275", "title": "Analytics in higher education", "text": "Analytics in higher education\n\nAcademic analytics is basically defined as the process of evaluating and analysing organisational data received from university systems for reporting and decision making reasons (Campbell, & Oblinger, 2007). According to Campbell & Oblinger (2007), accrediting agencies, governments, parents and students are all calling for the adoption of new modern and efficient ways of improving and monitoring student success. This has ushered the higher education system into an era characterised by increased scrutiny from the various stakeholders. For instance, the Bradley review acknowledges that benchmarking activities such as student engagement serve as indicators for gauging the institution’s quality (Commonwealth Government of Australia, 2008). \n\nIncreased competition, accreditation, assessment and regulation are the major factors encouraging the adoption of analytics in higher education. Although institutions of higher learning gather a lot of vital data that can significantly aid in solving problems like attrition and retention, the collected data is not being analysed adequately and hence translated into useful data (Goldstein, 2005.) Subsequently, higher education leadership are forced to make critical and vital decisions based on inadequate information that could be achieved by properly utilising and analysing the available data (Norris, Leonard, & strategic Initiatives Inc., 2008). This gives rise to strategic problems. This setback also depicts itself at the tactical level. Learning and teaching at institutions of higher education if often a diverse and complex experience. Each and every teacher, student or course is quite different. However, LMS is tasked with taking care of them all. LMS is at the centre of academic analytics. It records each and every student and staff’s information and results in a click within the system. When this crucial information is added, compared and contrasted with different enterprise information systems provides the institution with a vast array of useful information that can be harvested to gain a competitive edge (Dawson & McWilliam, 2008; Goldstein, 2005; Heathcoate & Dawson, 2005).\n\nIn order to retrieve meaningful information from institution sources i.e. LMS, the information has to be correctly interpreted against a basis of educational efficiency, and this action requires analysis from people with learning and teaching skills. Therefore, a collaborative approach is required from both the people guarding the data and those who will interpret it, otherwise the data will remain to be a total waste (Baepler & Murdoch, 2010). Decision making at its most basic level is based on presumption or intuition (a person can make conclusions and decisions based on experience without having to do data analysis) (Siemens & Long, 2011). However, a lot of decisions made at institutions of higher learning are too vital to be based on anecdote, presumption or intuition since significant decisions need to be backed by data and facts.\n\nAnalytics, which is often termed as business intelligence, has come out as new software and hardware that enables businesses to gather and analyse large amounts of information or data. The analytics process is made up of gathering, analysing, data manipulation and employing the results to answer critical questions such as ‘why’. Analytics was first applied in the admissions department in higher education institutions. The institutions normally used some formulas to choose students from a large pool of applicants. These formulas drew their information from high school transcripts and standardized test scores. In today’s world, analytics is commonly used in administrative units such as fund raising and admissions. The use and application of academic analytics is meant to grow due to the ever-increasing concerns about student success and accountability. Academic analytics primarily marries complex and vast data with predictive modelling and statistical techniques to better decision making. Current academic analytics initiatives are bent to use data to predict students experiencing difficulty (Arnold, & Pistilli, 2012, April). This allows advisors and faculty members to intervene by tailoring procedures which will meet the student’s learning needs (Arnold, 2010). As such, academic analytics possesses the ability to improve learning, student success and teaching. Analytics has become a valuable tool for institutions because of its ability to predict, model and improve decision making.\n\nAnalysis is made up of five basic steps: capture, report, predict, act and refine\nCapture: All analytic efforts are centred on data. Consequently, academic analytics can be rooted in data from various sources such as a CMS, and financial systems (Campbell, Finnegan, & Collins, 2006). Additionally, the data comes in various different formats for example spread sheets. Also, data can be got from the institution’s external environment. To capture data, academic analytics needs to determine the type of available data, methods of harnessing it and the formats it is in. \nReport: After the data has been captured and stored in a central location, analysts will examine the data, perform queries, identify patterns, trends and exceptions depicted by the data. The standard deviation and mean (descriptive statistics) are mostly generated.\n\nPredict: After analysing the warehoused data through the use of statistics, a predictive model is developed. These models vary depending on the question nature and type of data. To develop a probability, these models employ statistical regression concepts and techniques. Predictions are made after the use of statistical algorithms.\n\nAct: The major goal and aim of analytics is to enable the institution to take actions based on the probabilities and predictions made. These actions might vary from invention to information. The interventions to address problems might be in the form of a personal email, phone call or an automated contact from faculty advisors about study resources and skills, such as office hours or help sessions. Undoubtedly, institutions have to come up with appropriate mechanisms for impact measurement; such as did the students actually respond or attend the help sessions when invited.\nRefine: Academic analytics should also be made up of a process aimed at self-improvement. Statistics processes should be continually updated since the measurement of project impacts is not a one-time static effort but rather a continual effort. For instance, admission analytics should be updated or revised yearly. \n\nAnalytics affects executive officers, students, faculty members, IT staff and student affairs staff. Whereas students will be keen to know academic analytics will affect their grades, faculty members will be interested in finding out how the information and data can be appropriated for other purposes (Pistilli, Arnold & Bethune, 2012). Moreover, the institution staff will be focussed on finding how the analysis will enable them to effectively accomplish their jobs while the institution president will be focussed on freshman retention and increase in graduation rates.\n\nAnalytics have been criticised for various reasons such as profiling. Their main use is to profile students into successful and unsuccessful categories. However, some individuals argue that profiling of students tends to bias people’s behaviours and expectations (Ferguson, 2012). Additionally, there is no clear guidelines on which profiling issues should be prohibited or allowed in institutions of higher learning.\n\n\nArnold, K. E. (2010). Signals: Applying Academic Analytics. Educause Quarterly, 33(1), n1. (accountability)\n\nArnold, K. E., & Pistilli, M. D. (2012, April). Course Signals at Purdue: Using learning analytics to increase student success. In Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Learning Analytics and Knowledge (pp. 267-270). ACM.\n\nBaepler, P., & Murdoch, C. J. (2010). Academic analytics and data mining in higher education. International Journal for the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning, 4(2), 17.\n\nCampbell, J. P., & Oblinger, D. G. (2007). Academic Analytics. Educause Article.\n\nCampbell, J. P., Finnegan, C., & Collins, B. (2006). Academic analytics: Using the CMS as an early warning system. In WebCT impact conference.\nCommonwealth Government of Australia. (2008). Review of Australian Higher Education o. Document Number)\n\nDawson, S., & McWilliam, E. (2008). Investigating the application of IT generated data as an indicator of learning and teaching performance: Queensland University of Technology and the University of British Columbia. (A. L. a. T. Council o. Document Number)\n\nFerguson, R. (2012). Learning analytics: drivers, developments and challenges. International Journal of Technology Enhanced Learning, 4(5), 304-317.\nGoldstein, P. (2005). Academic analytics: The uses of management information and technology in Higher Education o. Document Number)\n\nHeathcoate, L., & Dawson, S. (2005). Data Mining for Evaluation, Benchmarking and Reflective Practice in a LMS. E-Learn 2005: World conference on E-Learning in corporate, government, healthcare and higher education.\n\nNorris, D. M., Leonard, J., & Strategic Initiatives Inc. (2008). What Every Campus Leader Needs to Know About Analytics o. Document Number)\n\nPistilli, M. D., Arnold, K., & Bethune, M. (2012). Signals: Using academic analytics to promote student success. EDUCAUSE Review Online, 1-8.\n\nSiemens, G., & Long, P. (2011). Penetrating the fog: Analytics in learning and education. Educause Review, 46(5), 30-32.\n"}
{"id": "608296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=608296", "title": "Arms industry", "text": "Arms industry\n\nThe arms industry, also known as the defense industry or the arms trade, is a global industry responsible for the manufacturing and sales of weapons and military technology. It consists of a commercial industry involved in the research and development, engineering, production, and servicing of military material, equipment, and facilities. Arms-producing companies, also referred to as arms dealers, defence contractors, or as the military industry, produce arms for the armed forces of states and civilians. Departments of government also operate in the arms industry, buying and selling weapons, munitions and other military items. An arsenal is a place where arms and ammunition are made, maintained and repaired, stored, or issued, in any combination, whether privately or publicly owned. Products include guns, artillery, ammunition, missiles, military aircraft, military vehicles, ships, electronic systems, night vision devices, holographic weapon sights, laser rangefinders, laser sights, hand grenades, landmines and more. The arms industry also provides other logistical and operational support.\n\nStockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) estimated that 2012 military expenditures were roughly $1.8 trillion. This represents a relative decline from 1990 when military expenditures made up 4% of world GDP. Part of the money goes to the procurement of military hardware and services from the military industry. The combined arms sales of the top 100 largest arms-producing companies amounted to an estimated $395 billion in 2012 according to SIPRI. In 2004 over $30 billion were spent in the international arms trade (a figure that excludes domestic sales of arms). According to SIPRI, the volume of international transfers of major weapons in 2010–14 was 16 per cent higher than in 2005–2009. The five biggest exporters in 2010–2014 were the United States, Russia, China, Germany and France, and the five biggest importers were India, Saudi Arabia, China, the United Arab Emirates and Pakistan.\n\nMany industrialized countries have a domestic arms-industry to supply their own military forces. Some countries also have a substantial legal or illegal domestic trade in weapons for use by its citizens, primarily for self-defence, hunting or sporting purposes. Illegal trade in small arms occurs in many countries and regions affected by political instability. The Small Arms Survey estimates that 875 million small arms circulate worldwide, produced by more than 1,000 companies from nearly 100 countries.\n\nContracts to supply a given country's military are awarded by governments, making arms contracts of substantial political importance. The link between politics and the arms trade can result in the development of what U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower described as a military-industrial complex, where the armed forces, commerce, and politics become closely linked, similarly to the European multilateral defence procurement. Various corporations, some publicly held, others private, bid for these contracts, which are often worth many billions of dollars. Sometimes, as with the contract for the international Joint Strike Fighter, a competitive tendering process takes place, with the decision made on the merits of the designs submitted by the companies involved. Other times, no bidding or competition takes place.\n\nDuring the early modern period, France, United Kingdom, Netherlands and some states in Germany became self-sufficient in arms production, with diffusion and migration of skilled workers to more peripheral countries such as Portugal and Russia.\n\nThe modern arms industry emerged in the second half of the nineteenth century as a product of the creation and expansion of the first large military-industrial companies. As smaller countries (and even newly industrializing countries like Russia and Japan) could no longer produce cutting-edge military equipment with their indigenous resources and capacity, they increasingly began to contract the manufacture of military equipment, such as battleships, artillery pieces and rifles to foreign firms.\n\nIn 1854, the British government awarded a contract to the Elswick Ordnance Company of industrialist William Armstrong for the supply of his latest breech loading rifled artillery pieces. This galvanised the private sector into weapons production, with the surplus being increasingly exported to foreign countries. Armstrong became one of the first international arms dealers, selling his weapon systems to governments across the world from Brazil to Japan. In 1884, he opened a shipyard at Elswick to specialise in warship production—at the time, it was the only factory in the world that could build a battleship and arm it completely. The factory produced warships for many navies, including the Imperial Japanese Navy. Several Armstrong cruisers played an important role in defeating the Russian fleet at the Battle of Tsushima in 1905.\n\nIn the American Civil War in 1861 the north had a distinct advantage over the south as it relied on using the breech-loading rifle against the muskets of the south. This began the transition to industrially produced mechanised weapons such as the Gatling gun.\n\nThis industrial innovation in the defence industry was adopted by Prussia in 1866 & 1870-71 in its defeat of Austria and France respectively. By this time the machine gun had begun entering into the militaries. The first example of its effectiveness was in 1899 during the Boer War and in 1905 during the Russo-Japanese War. However, Germany were leaders in innovation of weapons and used this innovation nearly defeating the allies in World War I.\n\nIn 1885, France decided to capitalize on this increasingly lucrative form of trade and repealed its ban on weapon exports. The regulatory framework for the period up to the First World War was characterized by a laissez-faire policy that placed little obstruction in the way of weapons exports. Due to the carnage of World War I, arms traders began to be regarded with odium as \"merchants of death\" and were accused of having instigated and perpetuated the war in order to maximise their profits from arms sales. An inquiry into these allegations in Britain failed to find evidence to support them. However, the sea change in attitude about war more generally meant that governments began to control and regulate the trade themselves.\n\nThe volume of the arms trade greatly increased during the 20th century, and it began to be used as a political tool, especially during the Cold War where the United States and the USSR supplied weapons to their proxies across the world, particularly third world countries (see Nixon Doctrine).\n\nThis category includes everything from light arms to heavy artillery, and the majority of producers are small. Many are located in third world countries. International trade in handguns, machine guns, tanks, armored personnel carriers, and other relatively inexpensive weapons is substantial. There is relatively little regulation at the international level, and as a result, many weapons fall into the hands of organized crime, rebel forces, terrorists, or regimes under sanctions.\n\nThe Control Arms Campaign, founded by Amnesty International, Oxfam, and the International Action Network on Small Arms, estimated in 2003 that there are over 639 million small arms in circulation, and that over 1,135 companies based in more than 98 different countries manufacture small arms as well as their various components and ammunition.\n\nEncompassing military aircraft (both land-based and naval aviation), conventional missiles, and military satellites, this is the most technologically advanced sector of the market. It is also the least competitive from an economic standpoint, with a handful of companies dominating the entire market. The top clients and major producers are virtually all located in the western world and Russia, with the United States easily in first place. Prominent aerospace firms include Rolls Royce, BAE, Dassault Aviation, Sukhoi, Mikoyan, EADS, Leonardo, Thales Group, Lockheed Martin, Northrop Grumman and Boeing. There are also several multinational consortia mostly involved in the manufacturing of fighter jets, such as the Eurofighter. The largest military contract in history, signed in October 2001, involved the development of the Joint Strike Fighter.\n\nSome of the world's great powers maintain substantial naval forces to provide a global presence, with the largest nations possessing aircraft carriers, nuclear submarines and advanced anti-air defense systems. The vast majority of military ships are conventionally powered, but some are nuclear-powered. There is also a large global market in second-hand naval vessels, generally purchased by developing countries from Western governments.\n\nThe cybersecurity industry is becoming the most important defence industry as cyber attacks are being deemed as one of the greatest risk to defence in the next ten years as cited by the NATO review in 2013. Therefore, high levels of investment has been placed in the cybersecurity industry to produce new software to protect the ever-growing transition to digitally run hardware. For the military industry it is vital that protections are used for systems used for reconnaissance, surveillance and intelligence gathering. However, to protect the cyber world from attacks there are advanced cyber protection strategies used such as content, cloud and wireless security. These can be intertwined to form several secure layers.\n\nNevertheless, cyber attacks and cyber attackers have become more advanced in their field using techniques such as Dynamic Trojan Horse Network (DTHN) Internet Worm, Zero-Day Attack, and Stealth Bot. As a result, the cybersecurity industry has had to improve the defence technologies to remove any vulnerability to cyber attacks using systems such as the Security of Information (SIM), Next-Generation Firewalls (NGFWs) and DDoS techniques.\n\nAs the threat to computers grows, the demand for cyber protection will rise, resulting in the growth of the cybersecurity industry. It is expected that the industry will be dominated by the defence and homeland security agencies that will make up 40% of the industry.\n\nAccording to research institute, SIPRI, the volume of international transfers of major weapons in 2010–14 was 16 per cent higher than in 2005–2009. The five biggest exporters in 2010–14 were the United States, the United Kingdom, Russia, China and France, and the five biggest importers were India, Saudi Arabia, China, the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Pakistan. The flow of arms to Africa, the Americas, Asia and Oceania, and the Middle East increased significantly between 2005–2009 and 2010–14, while there was a notable decrease in the flow to Europe.\n\nSIPRI has identified 60 countries as exporters of major weapons in 2010–14. The top 5 exporters during the period were responsible for almost 74 per cent of all arms exports. The composition of the five largest exporters of arms changed between 2005–2009 and 2010–14: while the United States and Russia remained by far the largest exporters, China narrowly, but notably, replaced Germany as the third largest exporter as Germany slid down to 6th place. The top 5 exported 14 per cent more arms in 2010–14 than the top 5 in 2005–2009.\n\nIn 2010–14, 153 countries (about three-quarters of all countries) imported major weapons. The top 5 recipients accounted for 33 per cent of the total arms imports during the period (see table 2). India, China and the UAE were among the top 5 importers in both 2005–2009 and 2010–14. Asia and Oceania accounted for nearly half of imports in 2010–14, followed by the Middle East, Europe, the Americas and Africa (see figure 3). SIPRI also identified seven groups of rebel forces as importers of major weapons in 2010–14, but none of them accounted for more than 0.02 per cent of total deliveries.\n\nUnits are in Trend Indicator Values expressed as millions of U.S. dollars at 1990s prices. These numbers may not represent real financial flows as prices for the underlying arms can be as low as zero in the case of military aid. The following are estimates from Stockholm International Peace Research Institute.\n\nPlease note that rankings for exporters below a billion dollars are less meaningful, as they can be swayed by single contracts. A much more accurate picture of export volume, free from yearly fluctuations, is presented by 5-year moving averages.\n\nNext to SIPRI there are several other sources that provide data on international transfers of arms. These include national reports by national governments about arms exports, the UN register on conventional arms and an annual publication by the U.S. Congressional Research Service that includes data on arms exports to developing countries as compiled by U.S. intelligence agencies. A list of such sources can be found at the SIPRI website. Due to the different methodologies and definitions used different sources often provide significantly different data. \n\nSIPRI uses the \"trend-indicator values\" (TIV). These are based on the known unit production costs of weapons and represent the transfer of military resources rather than the financial value of the transfer.\n\nUnits are in Trend Indicator Values expressed as millions of U.S. dollars at 1990s prices. These numbers may not represent real financial flows as prices for the underlying arms can be as low as zero in the case of military aid. \nPlease note that arms import rankings fluctuate heavily as countries enter and exit wars. Export data tend to be less volatile as exporters tend to be more technologically advanced and have stable production flows. 5-year moving averages present a much more accurate picture of import volume, free from yearly fluctuations.\n\nThis is a list of the world's largest arms manufacturers and other military service companies who profit the most from the War economy, their origin is shown as well. The information is based on a list published by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute for 2015. The list provided by the SIPRI excludes companies based in China.\n\nArms control refers to international restrictions upon the development, production, stockpiling, proliferation and usage of small arms, conventional weapons, and weapons of mass destruction. It is typically exercised through the use of diplomacy, which seeks to persuade governments to accept such limitations through agreements and treaties, although it may also be forced upon non-consenting governments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37141186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37141186", "title": "Brown &amp; Brown", "text": "Brown &amp; Brown\n\nBrown & Brown, Inc. (Brown & Brown Insurance or B&B) is a provider of insurance and reinsurance products and services to general business, corporate, governmental and quasi-governmental, institutional, professional, trade association and individual clients. Its headquarters are in Daytona Beach, Florida.\n\nThe company is currently ranked as the sixth largest independent insurance intermediary organization in the U.S. and seventh largest in the world based on the July 2014 ranking by Business Insurance magazine. Brown & Brown is also one of the selected companies that comprise S&P 400 stock market index. In September 2007, Brown & Brown was ranked #10 on Forbes's \"The 100 Best Mid-Cap Stocks in America\" list in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "1489628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1489628", "title": "Capital account", "text": "Capital account\n\nIn macroeconomics and international finance, the capital account (also known as the financial account) is one of two primary components of the balance of payments, the other being the current account. Whereas the current account reflects a nation's net income, the capital account reflects net change in ownership of national assets.\n\nA surplus in the capital account means money is flowing into the country, but unlike a surplus in the current account, the inbound flows effectively represent borrowings or sales of assets rather than payment for work. A deficit in the capital account means money is flowing out of the country, and it suggests the nation is increasing its ownership of foreign assets.\n\nThe term \"capital account\" is used with a narrower meaning by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and affiliated sources. The IMF splits what the rest of the world calls the capital account into two top-level divisions: \"financial account\" and \"capital account\", with by far the bulk of the transactions being recorded in its financial account.\n\nAt high level:\n\nBreaking this down:\n\n\n\nConventionally, central banks have two principal tools to influence the value of their nation's currency: raising or lowering the base rate of interest and, more effectively, buying or selling their currency. Setting a higher interest rate than other major central banks will tend to attract funds via the nation's capital account, and this will act to raise the value of its currency. A relatively low interest rate will have the opposite effect. Since World War II, interest rates have largely been set with a view to the needs of the domestic economy, and moreover, changing the interest rate alone has only a limited effect.\n\nA nation's ability to prevent a fall in the value of its own currency is limited mainly by the size of its foreign reserves: it needs to use the reserves to buy back its currency. Starting in 2013, a trend has developed for some central banks to attempt to exert upward pressure on their currencies by means of currency swaps rather than by directly selling their foreign reserves. In the absence of foreign reserves, central banks may affect international pricing indirectly by selling assets (usually government bonds) domestically, which, however, diminishes liquidity in the economy and may lead to deflation.\n\nWhen a currency rises higher than monetary authorities might like (making exports less competitive internationally), it is usually considered relatively easy for an independent central bank to counter this. By buying foreign currency or foreign financial assets (usually other governments' bonds), the central bank has a ready means to lower the value of its own currency; if it needs to, it can always create more of its own currency to fund these purchases. The risk, however, is general price inflation. The term \"printing money\" is often used to describe such monetization, but is an anachronism, since most money exists in the form of deposits and its supply is manipulated through the purchase of bonds. A third mechanism that central banks and governments can use to raise or lower the value of their currency is simply to talk it up or down, by hinting at future action that may discourage speculators. Quantitative easing, a practice used by major central banks in 2009, consisted of large-scale bond purchases by central banks. The desire was to stabilize banking systems and, if possible, encourage investment to reduce unemployment. \nAs an example of direct intervention to manage currency valuation, in the 20th century Great Britain's central bank, the Bank of England, would sometimes use its reserves to buy large amounts of pound sterling to prevent it falling in value. Black Wednesday was a case where it had insufficient reserves of foreign currency to do this successfully. Conversely, in the early 21st century, several major emerging economies effectively sold large amounts of their currencies in order to prevent their value rising, and in the process built up large reserves of foreign currency, principally the US dollar.\n\nSometimes the reserve account is classified as \"below the line\" and thus not reported as part of the capital account. Flows to or from the reserve account can substantially affect the overall capital account. Taking the example of China in the early 21st century, and excluding the activity of its central bank, China's capital account had a large surplus, as it had been the recipient of much foreign investment. If the reserve account is included, however, China's capital account has been in large deficit, as its central bank purchased large amounts of foreign assets (chiefly US government bonds) to a degree sufficient to offset not just the rest of the capital account, but its large current account surplus as well.\n\nIn the financial literature, \"sterilization\" is a term commonly used to refer to operations of a central bank that mitigate the potentially undesirable effects of inbound capital: currency appreciation and inflation. Depending on the source, sterilization can mean the relatively straightforward recycling of inbound capital to prevent currency appreciation and/or a range of measures to check the inflationary impact of inbound capital. The classic way to sterilize the inflationary effect of the extra money flowing into the domestic base from the capital account is for the central bank to use open market operations where it sells bonds domestically, thereby soaking up new cash that would otherwise circulate around the home economy. A central bank normally makes a small loss from its overall sterilization operations, as the interest it earns from buying foreign assets to prevent appreciation is usually less than what it has to pay out on the bonds it issues domestically to check inflation. In some cases, however, a profit can be made. In the strict textbook definition, sterilization refers only to measures aimed at keeping the domestic monetary base stable; an intervention to prevent currency appreciation that involved merely buying foreign assets without counteracting the resulting increase of the domestic money supply would not count as sterilization. A textbook sterilization would be, for example, the Federal Reserve's purchase of $1 billion in foreign assets. This would create additional liquidity in foreign hands. At the same time, the Fed would sell $1 billion of debt securities into the US market, draining the domestic economy of $1 billion. With $1 billion added abroad and $1 billion removed from the domestic economy, the net capital inflow that would have influenced the currency's exchange rate has undergone sterilization.\n\nThe above definition is the one most widely used in economic literature, in the financial press, by corporate and government analysts (except when they are reporting to the IMF), and by the World Bank. In contrast, what the rest of the world calls the capital account is labelled the \"financial account\" by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), and by the United Nations System of National Accounts (SNA). In the IMF's definition, the capital account represents a small subset of what the standard definition designates the capital account, largely comprising transfers. Transfers are one-way flows, such as gifts, as opposed to commercial exchanges (i.e., buying/selling and barter). The largest type of transfer between nations is typically foreign aid, but that is mostly recorded in the current account. An exception is debt forgiveness, which in a sense is the transfer of ownership of an asset. When a country receives significant debt forgiveness, that will typically comprise the bulk of its overall IMF capital account entry for that year.\n\nThe IMF's capital account does include some non-transfer flows, which are sales involving non-financial and non-produced assets—for example, natural resources like land, leases and licenses, and marketing assets such as brands—but the sums involved are typically very small, as most movement in these items occurs when both seller and buyer are of the same nationality.\n\nTransfers apart from debt forgiveness recorded in the IMF's capital account include the transfer of goods and financial assets by migrants leaving or entering a country, the transfer of ownership on fixed assets, the transfer of funds received to the sale or acquisition of fixed assets, gift and inheritance taxes, death levies, and uninsured damage to fixed assets. In a non-IMF representation, these items might be grouped in the \"other\" subtotal of the capital account. They typically amount to a very small amount in comparison to loans and flows into and out of short-term bank accounts.\n\nCapital controls are measures imposed by a state's government aimed at managing capital account transactions. They include outright prohibitions against some or all capital account transactions, transaction taxes on the international sale of specific financial assets, or caps on the size of international sales and purchases of specific financial assets. While usually aimed at the financial sector, controls can affect ordinary citizens, for example in the 1960s British families were at one point restricted from taking more than £50 with them out of the country for their foreign holidays. Countries without capital controls that limit the buying and selling of their currency at market rates are said to have full capital account convertibility.\n\nFollowing the Bretton Woods agreement established at the close of World War II, most nations put in place capital controls to prevent large flows either into or out of their capital account. John Maynard Keynes, one of the architects of the Bretton Woods system, considered capital controls to be a permanent part of the global economy. \nBoth advanced and emerging nations adopted controls; in basic theory it may be supposed that large inbound investments will speed an emerging economy's development, but empirical evidence suggests this does not reliably occur, and in fact large capital inflows can hurt a nation's economic development by causing its currency to appreciate, by contributing to inflation, and by causing an unsustainable \"bubble\" of economic activity that often precedes financial crisis. The inflows sharply reverse once capital flight takes places after the crisis occurs. \nAs part of the displacement of Keynesianism in favour of free market orientated policies, countries began abolishing their capital controls, starting between 1973–74 with the US, Canada, Germany and Switzerland and followed by Great Britain in 1979. Most other advanced and emerging economies followed, chiefly in the 1980s and early 1990s.\n\nAn exception to this trend was Malaysia, which in 1998 imposed capital controls in the wake of the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis. \nWhile most Asian economies didn't impose controls, after the 1997 crises they ceased to be net importers of capital and became net exporters instead. Large inbound flows were directed \"uphill\" from emerging economies to the US and other developed nations. According to economist C. Fred Bergsten the large inbound flow into the US was one of the causes of the financial crisis of 2007-2008. By the second half of 2009, low interest rates and other aspects of the government led response to the global crises had resulted in increased movement of capital back towards emerging economies. In November 2009 the Financial Times reported several emerging economies such as Brazil and India have begun to implement or at least signal the possible adoption of capital controls to reduce the flow of foreign capital into their economies.\n\n"}
{"id": "45345771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45345771", "title": "Chung Yong-jin", "text": "Chung Yong-jin\n\nChung Yong-jin (born 19 September 1968) is a South Korean businessman, the vice chairman and CEO of Shinsegae Group. He is the son of Lee Myung-hee, chairman of Shinsegae Group.\n\nChung graduated from Kyungbock High School. He has a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from Brown University.\n"}
{"id": "43302374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43302374", "title": "César Guido Forcieri", "text": "César Guido Forcieri\n\nCésar Guido Forcieri is an Argentine lawyer, economist, politician, and businessman. He is currently the Executive Director for Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay at The World Bank.\n\nForcieri has been described as the right-hand man of Amado Boudou, a leading member of the circle surrounding Argentinian President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner. Boudou ran ANSES, Argentina’s national social-security administration, in 2008-9, was the country’s Minister of the Economy in 2009-11, and became Vice President of Argentina in December 2011. Both Boudou and Forcieri were investigated for corruption in early 2014 as part of the scandal known as “Boudougate.” \n\nForcieri attended Colegio De La Salle from 1985 to 1997 and earned a bachelor's degree. He attended Universidad Argentina de la Empresa from 2002 to 2006 and earned a degree in law. He attended Universidad del CEMA from 2007 to 2008 and earned a master's degree in Law and Finance.\n\nIn 2013-14 he attended Georgetown University and received a Certificate in International Business Management.\n\nFrom 2006 to 2010, Forcieri held various offices at ANSES (Administración Nacional de la Seguridad Social), the Argentinian national social-security administration, including positions in the Technical and Administrative Department, Acquisitions and Public Contracts Office, and Wealth Fund for the Pension System (Fondo de Garantia de Sustentabilidad para el Sistema Integrado Previsional Argentino). He served as Liaison Manager of ANSES from May 2009 through April 2010.\n\nIn 2008, Forcieri formed the corporation Rock Argentina SA, which purportedly provides artistic and advertising services.\n\nIn May 2010, he was named Acting Chief of Staff at the Argentine Ministry of Economy and Public Finances, and was confirmed as Chief of Staff in August of that year. He was a Director of Quickfood SA in Buenos Aires from March 2010 to March 2011, and Undersecretary of Financial Services at the Argentinian Ministry of Economy and Public Finances from December 2011 to October 2012. He was a Director of Grupo Financiero Galicia S.A. in Buenos Aires from April 2011 to January 2013, having been appointed by Amado Boudou, then President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner’s Minister of Economy, to represent the interests of the State rather than those of private shareholders. From May 2010 to March 2014 he was G-20 Finance Deputy for Argentina at the Argentinian Ministry of Economy and Public Finances.\n\nSince November 2012, Forcieri has been Executive Director for Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay, Peru, and Uruguay at The World Bank in Washington, D.C.\n\nArgentinian Congresswoman Elisa Carrió and Buenos Aires legislator Maximiliano Ferraro asked the Anti-Corruption Bureau in March 2012 to investigate Forcieri on charges of “conflicts of interest” and “inconsistencies in the public service.” The complaint noted that Forcieri was involved in Action Media AS and Rock Argentina SA, and maintained that he had used his position in government to obtain favorable loans for these companies, which had assets of only $12,000 and $20,000 respectively but received loans “in excess of $200,000 and $400,000.” The complaint further noted that Rock Argentina had not increased its capital since its founding in 2008. Carrió and Ferraro argued that it was inappropriate for a high official in the Ministry of Economy and Financial Services to be a founding partner of corporations with limited resources that received “generous” loans from banks. They underscored that both Rock Argentina and Action Media were officially chaired by Juan Carlos Lopez, who also chaired Real Estate Investments Aspen SA, a firm half-owned by Forcieri’s former boss Boudou.\n\nOne of the charges in the complaint involved the firm Ciccone Calcográfica. Boudou was said to have inappropriately helped the firm in 2010 to free itself from bankruptcy by means of a payment plan that enabled it to be transferred to an investment fund allegedly linked to Boudou, and of then having enriched the firm with government contracts. These charges developed into the scandal known as “Boudougate.” Forcieri was said to have participated in the alleged illegal activities, and was specifically identified as having introduced Boudou to Jose María Núñez Carmona, a central figure in the transactions under investigation. It was discovered that Forcieri, Núñez Carmona, and Boudou had traveled to Brazil in 2011 with Alejandro Vandenbroele, chair of Calcográfica Ciccone and an official of a shell corporation called The Old Fund, which Boudou and Núñez Carmona were believed to have used to take control of Calcográfica Ciccone. Attempts to impeach Boudou failed because of the Kirchnerist majorities in both chambers of the Argentinian Congress.\n\nForcieri was summoned to appear before Judge Ariel Lijo in June 2014 to answer questions about these matters, but he requested an extension on the grounds that he was doing “strategic” work at the World Bank in Washington. Lijo, who believed that Calcográfica Cicconi had printed ballots in the 2011 presidential election, thus suggesting that the company enjoyed close ties to the Kirchner regime, had earlier warned that if Forcieri did not appear to testify, she would consider requesting his arrest by U.S. authorities. After Forcieri made his request for a postponement, Lijo asked the World Bank and Ministry of Finance to confirm his claim that his professional activities prevented him from traveling to Argentina to testify. Carrió described Forcieri as a “key figure” in the investigation and asked in a radio interview how the region could have a representative at the World Bank who is under investigation for criminal offenses. Ferraro, charging that Boudou and Forcieri were plainly attempting to drag out the case, called on June 25 for Forcieri’s arrest.\n"}
{"id": "54750210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54750210", "title": "Disney on Parade (stage show)", "text": "Disney on Parade (stage show)\n\nDisney on Parade, was a series of touring arena stage shows produced by NAWAL Productions, a joint venture between NBC and Walt Disney Productions. Aimed primarily at children and families, the shows featured live performers portraying the roles of Disney characters in performances derived from various Disney films.\n\nThe initial idea for \"Disney on Parade\" was convinced by Thomas Sarnoff, youngest son of Robert Sarnoff. The elder Sarnoff had served as the president of NBC and CEO of RCA. NBC at the time aired Walt Disney Productions' weekly anthology series. To produce the show, Disney teamed with the network to create NAWAL Productions, with NBC being the general partner and Disney the limited partner.\n\nFollowing a trial run in Long Beach, California, the first edition of \"Disney on Parade\" launched in Chicago, Illinois on December 25, 1969 and was an instant success. However, the show suffered from an overabundance of props, inexperienced performers, high costs and a run time of nearly three hours, so NBC replaced producer Bob Jani with Michel M. Grilikhes, who made effective changes, including rearranging or removing acts, to reduce costs and time without affecting the show's quality. Grilikhes, affectionately known to the cast and crew as \"Mr. G\", would executive-produce and direct further editions of \"Disney on Parade\".\n\nFour editions of \"Disney on Parade\", each with a different set of acts, would tour across the United States and around the world, including runs in South America, Europe, Asia and Australia; a performance in Adelaide, Australia was videotaped and broadcast as a one-hour special on NBC's \"The Wonderful World of Disney\" in December 1971. By 1976, the shows ceased performing internationally.\n\nEach edition of \"Disney on Parade\" typically began with Mickey Mouse and a cavalcade of Disney characters dancing on the stage and personally greeting members of the audience. The show would then present lavish musical segments, depicting characters and scenes from Disney films, alongside smaller comedy routines with characters like Donald Duck, Goofy and Herbie the Love Bug. Finally, the characters appeared together for a grand finale and bid the audience farewell. Each show was divided into two acts with one 15-minute intermission.\n\nThe arena stages typically sported a giant curtain, from which characters and sets would emerge, and a circular motion picture screen that would present clips from Disney features and shorts at the beginning of major acts.\n\n\"Disney on Parade\" was well-received by audiences and critics. The first edition's run at Madison Square Garden made a record $400,000 in advanced ticket sales, and a run in Salt Lake City, Utah booked 77,255 people in nine days, some 38% of the population. It later toured Europe, Australia, Asia and Latin America, making $64 million worldwide.\n"}
{"id": "36320250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36320250", "title": "Dominic Ng", "text": "Dominic Ng\n\nDominic Ng () is an American banker who is Chairman and CEO of East West Bank in California.\n\nNg transformed East West Bank from a small savings and loan association with $600 million in assets, in 1991, into the full-service commercial bank with total assets of $39.1 billion as of September 30, 2018. In 2018, \"Forbes\" named East West Bank among the top 5 of “America’s 100 Best Banks.”\n\nIn 1959, Ng was born in Hong Kong. \n\nNg holds a bachelor's degree from the University of Houston, an honorary doctor of law degree from Occidental College and an honorary fellowship from Lingnan University in Hong Kong.\n\nNg spent ten years as a Certified Public Accountant with Deloitte & Touche in Houston and Los Angeles. Ng was president of Seyen Investment.\n\nIn 1991, Ng joined East West Bank. Ng is the Chairman and CEO of East West Bancorp, Inc. and East West Bank, where its headquarter is in Pasadena, California.\n\nNg currently serves on the board of Mattel, Inc. (NYSE: MAT) and STX Entertainment. In addition, he is on the Board of Trustees at the University of Southern California and the Academy Museum of Motion Pictures, the Board of Overseers of the Keck School of Medicine of the University of Southern California, and the Annenberg Foundation's Investment Committee. Ng is also a member of the Berggruen Institute's Los Angeles Committee. \n\nIn 2000, Ng became a member of Committee of 100. From 2011 to 2014, Ng served as Chairman of the Committee of 100. \n\nFrom 2005 to 2011, he served on the board of directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, Los Angeles Branch. Dominic Ng’s previous board service also includes the Asia Society, Los Angeles Mayor’s Trade Advisory Council, United Way of Greater Los Angeles, PacifiCare Health Systems (formerly NYSE: PHS), Town Hall Los Angeles, The Anderson School at UCLA, and California State Treasurer’s Financial Institutions Advisory Committee (chair), among other organizations.\n\nNg was named by \"Forbes\" as one of the 25 most notable Chinese Americans and one of the 100 most influential people in Los Angeles by the \"Los Angeles Times\". In 2017, \"American Banker\" recognized Ng as Banker of the Year, for successfully executing his vision while maintaining discipline on credit, and building East West into one of the nation’s most profitable regional banks. Ng is also known for his business and community leadership. In 2016, Ng received The United Way Alexis de Tocqueville Award presented by United Way Worldwide that recognizes his exceptional and sustained engagement and philanthropic leadership. He was the first Asian American campaign chair for United Way of Greater Los Angeles in 2000. Centered on promoting the importance of philanthropy and the benefits of supporting high-impact charities such as the United Way, Ng’s campaign raised record funds, broke a long-standing ethnic barrier, and now serves as a model and best practice for United Way chapters and other charities around the country.\n\nNg has been a key leader in bringing Chinese culture and art to major U.S. institutions, including the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles (MOCA), The Huntington Library, Art Collections and Botanical Gardens, Bowers Museum, and was honored by the USC Pacific Asia Museum in 2014. His vision to bring the best of contemporary Chinese art to a larger audience inspired a groundbreaking collaboration between East West Bank and the Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles (MOCA) that resulted in a new addition to MOCA’s permanent collection.\n\nNg is a frequent speaker on U.S.-China relations, economics, finance, banking, philanthropy and other topics. He has addressed business, political, academic and civic audiences in the U.S. and Greater China, including Boao Forum for Asia, China-United States Exchange Foundation, Asia Society, Committee of 100, Chinese CEO Organization, Federal Reserve Bank, Los Angeles Economic Development Corporation, Milken Institute, the United States Conference of Mayors and United Way.\n\nNg has received wide recognition for his visionary leadership.\n\n"}
{"id": "706032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=706032", "title": "Downtown Honolulu", "text": "Downtown Honolulu\n\nDowntown Honolulu is the current historic, economic, governmental, and central part of Honolulu—bounded by Nuuanu Stream to the west, Ward Avenue to the east, Vineyard Boulevard to the north, and Honolulu Harbor to the south—situated within the City of Honolulu. Both modern and historic buildings and complexes, many of the latter declared National Historic Landmarks on the National Register of Historic Places, are located in the area, .\n\nDowntown Honolulu can be subdivided into four neighborhoods, each with its own central focus and mix of buildings. These areas are the Capitol District, the Central Business District, Chinatown, and the Waterfront.\n\nThe Capitol District, or Civic Center, contains most of the federal, state, and city governmental buildings and is centered on the Hawaii State Capitol, Iolani Palace, and Honolulu Hale (city hall). It is roughly bounded by Richards Street on the west, Ward Avenue on the east, Vineyard Boulevard to the north, and Nimitz Highway to the south. Significant buildings in this area include:\n\n\nCentered on Bishop Street and Fort Street Mall, the central business district is roughly bounded by Nuuanu Avenue, Nimitz Highway, Richards Street, and Vineyard Boulevard. This area contains most of the headquarters buildings of Hawaii-based companies and most of the skyscrapers. Buildings in this area include:\n\nLocated between Nuuanu Stream and Nuuanu Avenue, Chinatown at one time was the center of Chinese cultural contact on the island. Central to this area is the open-air Oahu Market. The area around Nuuanu Avenue has become an Arts District, thanks to the renovation of the Hawaii Theatre. Buildings in this area include:\n\n\nHonolulu's waterfront area centers on Aloha Tower, which was once the tallest building in Hawaii and where cruise ships would dock before the advent of air travel between Hawaii and the U.S. Mainland. Recently, cruise ships between the Hawaiian Islands now dock at Honolulu Harbor. Buildings in this area include:\n\n\nThe Honolulu Police Department operates the Alapai Police Headquarters and the Downtown Police Station in Downtown Honolulu.\n\nThe United States Postal Service operates the Downtown Honolulu Post Office at 335 Merchant Street.\n\nList of tallest buildings in Honolulu\n"}
{"id": "8530713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8530713", "title": "Ernest Dichter", "text": "Ernest Dichter\n\nErnest Dichter (14 August 1907 – 21 November 1991) was an American psychologist and marketing expert known as the \"father of motivational research.\" Dichter pioneered the application of Freudian psychoanalytic concepts and techniques to business — in particular to the study of consumer behavior in the marketplace. Ideas he established were a significant influence on the practices of the advertising industry in the twentieth century. Dichter promised the \"mobilisation and manipulation of human needs as they exist in the consumer\". As America entered the 1950s, the decade of heightened commodity fetishism, Dichter offered consumers moral permission to embrace sex and consumption, and forged a philosophy of corporate hedonism, which he thought would make people immune to dangerous totalitarian ideas.\n\nDichter was born to Jewish family on 14 August 1907 in Vienna. He was the eldest of three sons of Wilhelm Dichter, a small businessman, and Mathilde Kurtz. His early education was interrupted due to the family's financial difficulties. However, by working part-time as a tutor, retail-store window decorator and other odd jobs, he was able to educate himself and attended the Sorbonne in Paris where he studied literature. He received his doctorate from the University of Vienna in 1934.\n\nAfter graduating, he gained some experience in market research working for the Psychoeconomic Institute in Vienna where he was part of a team that carried out research into the milk-drinking habits of the Viennese; a project where he was exposed to depth interviews for the first time. In 1934, he married Hedy Langfelder, a concert pianist and piano teacher. In 1937, while working at the Institute, Dichter was arrested and interrogated for four weeks. After being released, he learned that his name had been added to a list of subversives. He realised that as a Jew with a record as a subversive, it would be virtually impossible to find work in Vienna. He and his wife fled to Paris, but soon realised that France was also a dangerous place for a Jewish family. The couple left Europe permanently, arriving in New York in 1938.\n\nIn 1939, soon after arriving in the US, Dichter sent out a cover letter describing himself as: \"a young psychologist from Vienna ... with some interesting new ideas which can help you be more successful, effective, sell more and communicate better.\"\n\nOne of his first clients was the Compton Agency who invited him to work on a campaign for Ivory Soap, a Procter & Gamble product. In that project, Dichter relied on depth interviews where people talked about their experience of bathing. This method, which resembled the techniques used by cultural anthropologists, contrasted sharply with the quantitative marketing research methods in use at the time. Dichter demonstrated that bathing had an erotic element -- \"one of the few occasions when the Puritanical American was allowed to caress himself or herself.\" Dichter arrived at the insight that bathing was more than just a physical cleansing, but also a psychological cleansing. This insight gave rise to a new campaign slogan: \"Be Smart and Get a Fresh Start with Ivory Soap.\"\n\nHe was also hired by Chrysler Corporation to help sell Plymouth cars. In that project, Dichter offered two key insights. One was that women play an important role in influencing men's purchasing decisions. His interviews also revealed the importance of the convertible. People, especially middle-aged men, connected emotionally with sports cars which reminded them of their youth and freedom. Although convertibles accounted for less than 2% of sales, they had symbolic significance in the showroom. Dichter likened the convertible to a mistress, while the sedate, comfortable sedan which most people purchased was associated with a wife. Among Dichter's recommendations to Chrysler was that the company advertise in women's magazines, a move that was highly successful.\n\nDichter's work on the Chrysler campaign caught the attention of the US trade press who picked up on the story of the wife or mistress. \"Time\" magazine also followed with a detailed story of Dichter and his methods. According to \"Time\" Dichter was \"the first to apply to advertising the really scientific psychology.\" This media coverage launched Dichter's career, just eighteen months after he had arrived in the US.\n\nDichter also carried out the research that led to the famous slogan for Esso/Exxon. The slogan, \"Put a tiger in your tank\" was built around the insight that consumers associate motor vehicles with power.\n\nIn 1946 he founded the Institute for Motivational Research in Croton-on-Hudson, New York, later named Ernest Dichter and Associates and moved his home to Peekskill in New York. In the succeeding years, he founded similar institutes in Switzerland and Germany. Between the late 1930s and the 1960s, Dichter worked on hundreds of advertising campaigns, packaging ideas and product designs - from cake mixes to typewriters.\n\nDichter borrowed techniques used in psychology; depth interviews, projective techniques and observational research methods and applied them in new ways. Rather than use these methods to treat neuroses, he used them to understand unconsciously held beliefs and attitudes that help to explain why people behave in certain ways. To do this, he gathered together small groups whose members were typical of the target audience and interviewed them to uncover their desires and predispositions to a product or brand. He called these groups \"focus groups.\" In contrast to standard market research methods of the time which sought to quantify \"what\" consumers were doing, Dichter was interested in \"why\" consumers made given purchase decisions.\n\nAn oft-cited example of Dichter's studies is an understanding of why people use cigarette lighters. The conscious explanation is that lighters are used to light cigarettes, but at a deeper, unconscious level people use lighters because it gives them mastery and power. \"The capacity to summon fire inevitably gives every human being, child or grownup the sense of power. Reasons go far back into man's history... the ability to control fire is an age-old symbol of man's conquest of the physical world.\" \n\nDichter's work was central to the development of the idea of brand image. According to a 1998 article in \"The New York Times\", he \"was the first to coin the term focus group and to stress the importance of product image and persuasion in advertising\". In Vance Packard's book on Dichter and his practices, Packard recalls meeting Dichter in his castle and finding children watching televisions while resident psychologists, crouching behind special screens secretly filmed and studied their every action so that they could inform advertisers how to manipulate their unconscious minds. Dichter called such focus groups his \"living laboratory\". One such session led to the invention of the Barbie Doll: \"What they wanted was someone sexy looking, someone that they wanted to grow up to be like,\" Dichter reported, \"Long legs, big breasts, glamorous.\" \n\nDichter's reputation fluctuated throughout his career. Vance Packard attacked the ethics of his methods in the book, \"The Hidden Persuaders\" (1956). Packard's book argued that many consumers \"are being influenced and manipulated far more than we realize in the patterns of our everyday lives.\" Packard compared Dichter's methods to \"the chilling world of George Orwell and his Big Brother.\" To Packard, Dichter's gothic mansion was a sinister factory that manufactured and implanted self-destructive desires. The popularity of Packard's book left the general public with a deep suspicion about market research methods. By the 1970s, Dichter and the subject of motivation research were rarely mentioned in the scholarly literature.\n\nScholars have questioned whether Dichter was truly responsible for the development of motivational research or whether he was its greatest proponent. This questioninng is based on the insight that the field of motivational research was already well developed prior to Dichter's arrival in the US. Without doubt, motivational research became increasingly well-known within the advertising and marketing professions from the late 1940s. The \"Journal of Marketing\" featured the method in the April issue of 1950; \"Newsweek\" also featured the subject in October, 1955 and \"Fortune\" magazine devoted its cover story in June 1956 to the field. If he was not the father of motivational research, he was certainly influential in popularising the discipline. Dichter certainly positioned himself as a revolutionary in the consumer research movement of the post-war period.\n\nDichter died on 21 November 1991 in Peekskill, New York.\n\nHe was named Man of the Year by Market Research Council in 1983.\n\nDichter authored 17 books, numerous articles and contributed many chapters to books on advertising and market research:\n\nBooks\n\n\nSelect List of Journal articles\n\n\n\nBarbara B. Stern, \"Literary Criticism and the History of Marketing Thought: A New Perspective on `Reading', Marketing Theory,\" \"Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science,\" Vol. 18 Fall, 1990, pp 329–36\n\nS. Schwarzkopf and R. Gries (eds), \"Ernest Dichter and Motivation Research: New Perspectives on the Making of Post-war Consumer Culture,\" UK, Palgrave Macmillan. 2010 DOI: 10.1057/9780230293946\n\n"}
{"id": "7538456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7538456", "title": "Eugenio López Alonso", "text": "Eugenio López Alonso\n\nEugenio López Alonso is the President of Fundación Jumex Arte Contemporáneo and a contemporary art collector.\n\nHe has worked in the realm of contemporary art collecting in Mexico since the late 1990s, focusing on the promotion of contemporary art practice and on fostering its development. In 2001 he created Fundación Jumex, a not-for-profit institution that receives support from Grupo Jumex, a company founded by his father, Eugenio López Rodea. The creation of Museo Jumex in 2013 has further established López’s influence in the international cultural landscape.\n\nHis work has been recognized through his continual support of different museums in Mexico in their programming of educational activities, publications related to the visual arts, and through the grants and scholarships that Fundación Jumex awards every year to curators and artists for postgraduate studies abroad.\n\nEugenio López is currently a member of the board of trustees of other institutions in Mexico like Museo Tamayo Arte Contemporáneo, Museo de Arte Moderno and Patronato de Arte Contemporáneo (PAC). In the US, López is on the board of trustees of the New Museum of Contemporary Art in New York and of Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles (MOCA). It is thanks to his interest in contemporary Latin American art that the MOCA established the JUMEX FUND. He has also supported the making of exhibitions and publications at Metropolitan Museum of Art and Museum of Modern Art in New York, The Moore Space, Miami, and Los Angeles County Museum of Art (LACMA) and the Hammer Museum in Los Angeles.\n\nHe has received various awards and acknowledgments during his career as a collector, patron of the arts and philanthropist:\n\n2003 - Tribute from the New Museum of Contemporary Art, New York\n\n2005 - International Collector’s Award, Feria de Arte Internacional ARCO, Madrid\n\n2006 - Collector of the Year Award, Fundación Olga y Rufino Tamayo, Mexico City\n\n2007 - Sorolla Medal, The Hispanic Society of America, New York\n\n2008 - International Patron of the Arts Award, Montblanc Cultural Foundation, Mexico City\n\nMuseo Universitario de Arte Contemporáneo (MUAC, UNAM) named one of its galleries after him to acknowledge his funding of the building’s construction.\n\n2011 - Premio Visionario, Empresa Televisa & Jalisco State Government\n\n2014 - \"My Hero\" award from the Aid for Aids organization for his contribution to the fight against this illness\n\n2016 - International Philanthropy Award, UN Women for Peace Association, New York\n\nFundación Jumex Arte Contemporáneo was formally established on March 3, 2001 to foster the production and discussion of contemporary art. It accomplishes this through the Colección Jumex, its art collection, and Museo Jumex, a site for the exhibition and activation of contemporary art. Fundación Jumex furthers its mission through complementary programs: development, directed at supporting contemporary art practice and independent projects; and education, committed to helping visitors understand and appreciate contemporary art.\n\nColección Jumex, considered one of the most important art collections in Latin America, includes works by Mexican and international artists like Andy Warhol, Alexander Calder, Roni Horn, Louise Bourgeois, Cy Twombly, Gabriel Orozco, Damián Ortega, Minerva Cuevas, Julieta Aranda, Abraham Cruzvillegas, and Francis Alÿs among many others.\n\nMuseo Jumex opened in November 2013 as an institution devoted to contemporary art. It is located in Mexico City in the Polanco area. Through its exhibitions and public programs, it aspires to become a relevant institution in the field of art by producing and co-producing exhibitions and research, as well as familiarizing the audiences with the concepts and contexts of contemporary art.\n\nMuseo Jumex was the first building in Latin America designed by the British architect David Chipperfield.\n\n"}
{"id": "48692630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48692630", "title": "Fiber modification", "text": "Fiber modification\n\nFibre modification is a research field in which researchers aim at developing and applying technologies to impart new properties to natural fibres such as those in paper, in order to increase their functionality. Research areas in this field include many different technologies, amongst which the chemical modifications of fibres are widely used. One important sector of application of the chemical modifications is the treatment of wood for giving it enhanced properties such as higher mechanical properties, water impermeability, less hygroscopicity, bacterial and fungal resistance. Transferring and adapting the technical knowledge on fibre modification available for the wood sector to the recycled paper sector is an innovative use of these chemical treatments which has been the subject of studies that have been carried out within an EU co-funded project called Fibre+.\n\nThe project Consortium included members representing Paper and Packaging European Associations (CEPI, FEFCO), and research institutes specialized in the wood and paper for packaging sector and paper and packaging companies. The focus of the project was on chemical modification of the paper made recycled fibres, investigating the possibility to transfer wood fibre modifications technique from the wood sector to paper and packaging sector. The aim was to enhance the properties of papers and of the packaging, as the recycling process causes the deterioration of fibres.\n\nThe chemical modification of recycled fibres aimed at the creation of a new generation of packaging papers characterized for being more recyclable, less hygroscopic, stiff and durable. The high recycling rate of papers in Europe (which is at the level of 72%) and the consequent importance that recycling has for the circular economy, were at the basis of this study. Paper products form part of an integrated carbon cycle based on the photosynthetic conversion of water, carbon dioxide, nutrients and solar energy into renewable wood-based biomass. Once consumed, paper may be recovered and used again either as a source of secondary fibres, to produce recycled paper or as bio-fuel. Fibre packages or corrugated containers made from corrugated board were the ones that were dealt with in the project, as they are considered as being the most prominent structural application of paper.\n\nFibre modification with chemicals or enzymes had been investigated in the production of fibreboards. Fibre modification applying steam (steam-exploded wood) has been proved an efficient pre-treatment method in producing thermoplastic composites.\nCurrent theories for interfibre bonding during papermaking process are based on general recognition of the hydrogen bonding model. Consequently, all effort for boosting fibre strength is connected to mechanical beating of fibres in order to generate more flexible and fragmented fibres for increased bonding areas. As a consequence, significant drawbacks are obtained in terms of water retention ratio resulting in poor dewatering behaviour and high energy consumption. New mechanisms for interpretation and control of interfibre bonding are still upcoming. One way to overcome these drawbacks could be the molecular coating of cellulose fibres using polymers targeted on entropy controlled mixing of polymers and cellulose gel resulting in higher bonding forces. Theoretical results as well as experimental data on how application of polymeric layers (e.g. carboxymethyl cellulose) and enzymes on cellulose fibres can lead to sheets of high bonding strength without any mechanical beating have been already presented. However, these attempts were still far from any industrial implementation and their application would have been costly and would not solve the problem of raw material availability.\n\nBased on this state-of-the-art, the objective of the project was to modify and thus improve the characteristics of different types of recovered fibres used for the production of a variety of packaging grade papers used as linerboard and corrugating medium for corrugated board manufacturing in Europe. Information on the actual furnish characteristics and composition of packaging materials is expected to help European packaging industry to evaluate its sources of supply and to adopt suitable methods and processes to improve the available resources in an optimal manner. In the case of packaging, scientific technical knowledge of practical industrial relations between fibre characteristics, paper properties and corrugated board properties also is needed.\n\nFrom wood fibre modification to paper technology chemical wood modification aims at altering the structure of the cell wall matrix. Wood\nproperties are improved considerably by converting hydrophilic OH-groups into larger more hydrophobic groups. Also the physical fixation of modifying chemicals in the cell wall matrix can considerably change the wood properties. In addition to a hydrophobing effect, the treatments reduce the volume of cell wall nano-pores and thus decrease the incorporation of water molecules into the cell wall matrix. On a macroscopic scale, wood modification can change important properties of the wood including biological durability (resistance against fungi), dimensional stability, hardness and UV-stability.\n\nSince paper is produced from wood fibres, it was possible to transfer some of the developments achieved in wood technology to paper technology. Several technologies (e.g. chemical modification, nano-scale celluloses, polyelectrolytes, functional polymers based on cellulose, hemicelluloses and starch) were researched and used by different research groups around Europe (e.g. PTS and University of Goettingen, Germany; Kungliga Tekniska högskolan (KTH), Sweden.) There is already well established knowledge on chemical fibre modification of recycled fibres. Adamopoulos and Mai (2011) modified recycled fibres with N-methylol compounds and glutaraldehyde with significant improvement on fibre characteristics and paper sheet performance. Laboratory sheets manufactured with a variety of chemically modified recycled fibres were found to be superior in stiffness and hygroscopic properties than these manufactured from unmodified ones. The intention of the Fibre+ project is to build on the existing knowledge on fibre modification for adapting, implementing and disseminating this innovative technology in European paper SMEs.\n\nResults of the Fibre+ project on recycled fibres for packaging paper and information on potential developments of the Fibre+ concept can be found on the Fibre+ website including scientific articles that have been published as a consequence of the RTD work that has been carried out during the project.\n\n"}
{"id": "42683427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42683427", "title": "Geir Elsebutangen", "text": "Geir Elsebutangen\n\nGeir Elsebutangen (born 3 January 1964) is a Norwegian politician for the Conservative Party.\n\nHe has served as an elected member of Skien city council. In the 2013 election he was elected as a deputy representative to the Parliament of Norway from Telemark.\n\nSince 2013 he works as the chief executive officer of Kragerø Energi.\n"}
{"id": "8837012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8837012", "title": "Global labor arbitrage", "text": "Global labor arbitrage\n\nGlobal labor arbitrage is an economic phenomenon where, as a result of the removal of or disintegration of barriers to international trade, jobs move to nations where labor and the cost of doing business (such as environmental regulations) is inexpensive and/or impoverished labor moves to nations with higher paying jobs.\n\nTwo common barriers to international trade are tariffs (politically imposed) and the costs of transporting goods across oceans. With the advent of the Internet, the decrease of the costs of telecommunications, and the possibility of near-instantaneous document transfer, the barriers to the trade of intellectual work product, which is essentially, any kind of work that can be performed on a computer (such as computer programming) or that makes use of a college education, have been greatly reduced.\n\nOften, a prosperous nation (such as the United States) will remove its barriers to international trade, integrating its labor market with those of nations with a lower cost of labor (such as India, China, and Mexico), resulting in a shifting of jobs from the prosperous nation to the developing one. The end result is an increase in the supply of labor relative to the demand for labor, which means a decrease in costs and a decrease in wages.\n\nGlobal labor arbitrage can take many forms, including but not limited to:\n\nCapital moves to nations with cheap labor, lower taxes and or fewer environmental regulations or other costs of doing business for the purpose of producing goods and services for export to other markets. The classic example is the case of a factory or office closing in Nation A and then moving to Nation B for the purpose of producing goods or services at lower labor costs for export back to Nation A's market. This can result in layoffs for workers in Nation A. For example, in the United States, the amount of manufacturing jobs has decreased while the importation of manufactured goods from other nations has increased (along with the United States' trade deficit). These trends are now affecting the service sector as well.\n\nLabor, often skilled and educated, moves to a nation on a temporary or permanent basis. This has the effect of increasing the supply of labor in that nation's market.\n\nThis type of labor importation may be advantageous. According to the National Venture Capital Association (NVCA), a registered political action committee, over 25% of all startups responding to an NVCA survey, in the San Francisco Bay Area of the US in the last 15 years were \"immigrant-founded\" (most likely former or current H-1Bs). 40% of all publicly traded and venture founded companies in high tech manufacturing were started by immigrants. These account for more than half of all jobs in this sector.\n\nConversely, the NVCA \"American Made,\" publication makes little mention of US born co-founders, makes an errant claim that Intel has an immigrant founder, resulting in a faulty claim of the following companies employing more than 245,000 people in 2005:\n\nPrevious studies authored by Stuart Anderson, of the National Foundation for American Policy, had been careful to make the distinction of, \"...founded or co-founded...\" whereas the National Venture Capital Association uses the term, \"immigrant-founded\" 55 times in its 39-page document. The publication's data tables disclose only the names of \"immigrant-born founder or cofounder\", American born co-founders, and the number of American co-founders, are omitted. Additionally, according to Intel Corporation (99,900 employees), Hungarian born CEO Andy Grove was not an Intel co-founder.\n\nImpoverished labor moves towards capital in prosperous nations. This tends to increase the supply of labor relative to capital in the prosperous nations and potentially decreases wages, according to the laws of supply and demand (of and for labor). However, this decrease can be offset by job creation due to talented immigrants, as discussed in the last section.\n\n"}
{"id": "1739323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1739323", "title": "Gross profit", "text": "Gross profit\n\nIn accounting, gross profit, gross margin, sales profit, or credit sales is the difference between revenue and the cost of making a product or providing a service, before deducting overheads, payroll, taxation, and interest payments. This is different from operating profit (earnings before interest and taxes). Gross margin is the term normally used in the U.S., while \"gross profit\" is the more common usage in the UK and Australia.\n\nThe various deductions (and their corresponding metrics) leading from net sales to net income are as follows:\n\n"}
{"id": "3183613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3183613", "title": "Hallidie Building", "text": "Hallidie Building\n\nThe Hallidie Building is an office building in the Financial District of San Francisco, California, at 130 Sutter Street, between Montgomery Street and Kearny Street. It was built around 1917-1918 and though credited as the first American building to feature glass curtain walls, it was in fact predated by Louis Curtiss's Boley Clothing Company building in Kansas City, Missouri, completed in 1909.\n\nThe building was designed by architect Willis Polk and is named in honor of San Francisco cable car pioneer Andrew Smith Hallidie. Currently, it houses the San Francisco chapters of the American Institute of Architects, AIGA, One Medical, Center for Architecture + Design, the US Green Building Council - Northern California Chapter, Charles M. Salter Associates, Inc., and Coordinated Resources, Inc. (CRI).\n\nThe Hallidie Building's balconies and fire escapes were deemed unsafe by the City of San Francisco's Department of Building Inspection in August 2010. A two-year restoration of the building was completed in April 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52960305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52960305", "title": "Income Computation and Disclosure Standards", "text": "Income Computation and Disclosure Standards\n\nIncome Computation and Disclosure Standards (ICDS) were issued by the Government of India in exercise of powers conferred to it under section 145(2) of The Income Tax Act, 1961.\n\nThe Ministry of Finance published 14 draft ICDS, out of which 10 ICDS were notified by the government on 31 March 2015. The government specified a deferment of one year from the date of implementation of these standards; the notified ICDS will be applicable from the financial year 2016-17.\n\nICDS were issued with the aim of bringing uniformity in accounting policies governing computation of income in accordance with tax related provisions, and also reducing the irregularities amongst them. The ICDS were developed using Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAPs) with assistance from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.\n\nThe Form 3CD (Tax Audit Report) is already been revised for making mandatory disclosures in compliance with ICDS.\n\nThe Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) formed an Accounting Standards Committee which had earlier issued draft of 14 Tax Accounting Standards in 2012. On the basis of suggestions and comments received from stakeholders, CBDT revised and issued a 12 draft ICDS for public opinion. On 31 March 2015 the government issued 10 out of those 12 drafts.\n\nICDS are to be followed by all assesses, except individual or Hindu Undivided Family who are not covered under tax audit provisions, following Mercantile System of accounting.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31003485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31003485", "title": "Isaiah Emmanuel Morter", "text": "Isaiah Emmanuel Morter\n\nIsaiah Emmanuel Morter (sometimes spelled Isiah) (1860 – 7 April 1924) was born in 1860 in the Freetown district of Belize. He was of Igbo descent (some say his parents were Ashanti royalty) coming from a line of slaves brought to America from Nigeria. Marcus Garvey wrote that \"Morter grew up fighting the oppositions and difficulties generally surrounding one born to his condition, until he lifted himself to the highest pinnacle of service to his race and to his country.\" \n\nBy planting and growing bananas and coconuts, Morter built a fortune and is widely regarded as Belize's first coloured millionaire. His nicknames included \"the Coconut King\" and \"Guinea Sigar\" and he owned Caye Chapel and other plantations. For his achievements he was honoured with the award of Knight Commander of Distinguished Service Order of Ethiopia. He was also a strong supporter of Marcus Garvey's Universal Negro Improvement Association.\n\nMorter died on 7 April 1924. \n\nA statue of Morter can be found at the end of Albert Street, near St. John's Cathedral , in Belize City. He is not widely known today by the public in Belize.\n"}
{"id": "9145829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9145829", "title": "Jacques Bergerac", "text": "Jacques Bergerac\n\nJacques Bergerac (26 May 1927 – 15 June 2014) was a French actor who later became a business executive with Revlon.\n\nJacques Bergerac was born in 1927 in Biarritz, France. He was recruited by the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer studios while a law student in Paris at the age of 25.\n\nBergerac met and married Ginger Rogers with whom he appeared in \"Twist of Fate\" (1954) (also known as \"Beautiful Stranger\"). He then appeared as Armand Duval in a television production of \"Camille\" for \"Kraft Television Theatre\", opposite Signe Hasso. He played the Comte de Provence in Jean Delannoy's film, \"Marie Antoinette Queen of France\". \n\nIn \"Strange Intruder\" (1956), he shared the screen with Edmund Purdom and Ida Lupino and in \"Les Girls\" (1957), he played the second male lead. He also appeared in \"Gigi\" (1958), \"Thunder in the Sun\" (1959), the cult horror film \"The Hypnotic Eye\" (1960) and \"A Global Affair\" (1964). In 1957, he received the Golden Globe Award for Foreign Newcomer.\n\nHe appeared in a few more films and on television including \"Batman\", \"77 Sunset Strip\", \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\" (3 episodes), \"The Lucy Show\", \"Get Smart\", \"The Dick Van Dyke Show\" and \"Perry Mason\" (Season 7, Episode 19). His last appearance was on an episode of \"The Doris Day Show\" in 1969, after which he left show business and became the head of Revlon's Paris office and of the Perfumes Balmain company. His younger brother Michel became CEO of Revlon six years later. \n\nHe also managed the rugby club Biarritz Olympique from 1980 until 1981.\n\nBergerac married screen star Ginger Rogers in February 1953, and they divorced in July 1957. In June 1959, he married actress Dorothy Malone in Hong Kong, where she was on location for her 1960 film \"The Last Voyage\". They had daughters Mimi and Diane together, and divorced in December 1964.\n\nHe died June 15, 2014, at his home in Anglet, Pyrénées-Atlantiques, France.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18369654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18369654", "title": "Jake Award", "text": "Jake Award\n\nThe Jake Award is an annual award presented to North American short line (Class III) railroads by rail transport industry group \"American Short Line and Regional Railroad Association\". The award recognizes railroads with a frequency-severity index (FSI) rating of 0.00, thus having no FRA reportable injuries.\n\n"}
{"id": "32393941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32393941", "title": "Joey Reiman", "text": "Joey Reiman\n\nJoseph Alden Reiman (born March 31, 1953) is an American advertising businessman and author.\n\nJoseph Alden Reiman was born to a Jewish family in New York City on March 31, 1953, to businessman Henri Reiman and astrologer Phyllis Joy. He is a graduate of Brandeis University with a bachelor's degree in American Studies.\nAfter graduation, Reiman interned under director Federico Fellini in Rome, Italy. While in Italy, Reiman was a passenger in a car accident where he was partially paralyzed, losing the use of his right arm.\nSix months after his accident Reiman entered the world of advertising.\n\nReiman was chairman of one of the advertising agency, Babbitt & Reiman, before its acquisition by London-based GGT in the early 1990s. He went on to become the founder and CEO of the Joey Reiman Agency, where he remained until 1995. BrightHouse has worked on campaigns for clients such as The Coca-Cola Company, Procter & Gamble, McDonald’s, Pepperidge Farm and Newell Brands.\n\n\nReiman is married Cynthia Good, founder and owner of Little Pink Book. Together the couple has two sons Alden and Julien. Reiman is an adjunct marketing professor at the Goizueta Business School of Emory University. He leads workshops for fortune 500 companies. Joey is also a frequent marketing and branding guest expert on CNN.\n\n"}
{"id": "12372707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12372707", "title": "John Mercer (colonial lawyer)", "text": "John Mercer (colonial lawyer)\n\nJohn Mercer (February 6, 1704 – October 14, 1768) was a colonial American lawyer, land speculator, and author.\n\nBorn in Dublin, Ireland, he came to Virginia in 1720 where he built the colonial estate Marlborough (also called Marlboro; at Marlborough Point on the Potomac River, in Stafford County). He was a leading Virginia attorney and lawyer to George Washington, as well as a colonial prosecutor for the King's court of Virginia.\n\nHe authored \"Dinwiddianae\" (4 November 1754 – 3 May 1757; also known as \"The Dinwiddianae Poems and Prose\"), \"Abridgement of the Public Acts\" (1737; also \"An Exact Abridgment of the Public Acts of the Assembly of Virginia\"), \"First Code of Virginia \nLaws\" (1759), and \"Abridgment of Virginia Laws\" (\"Mercer's Abridgement of the Laws of Virginia\"). Mercer was also a founding member, secretary and general counsel of the Ohio Company of Virginia, a land speculating company that had George Washington as a member. His private library consisted of between 1500 and 1800 volumes. Did legal work for George Washington land deals as a down payment as a partner, died owing Washington the balance of partnership. His heirs deeded 790 acres (just west of the present day intersection of South Four Mile Run Drive and South Walter Reed Drive in Arlington County, Virginia) to Washington in payment.\n\nMarried Catherine Mason (June 21, 1707 – June 15, 1750) on June 10, 1725. Married again, after the death of his first wife, to Ann Roy (died 1770), on November 10, 1750. He had several children (at least 11), many of which (5) died during childhood. Three sons lived to become prominent in Eighteenth Century America:\n\n\nA fourth son, John Fenton Mercer, (1735–1756) was commissioned a captain in 1755 under George Washington, commander of the Virginia Regiment and was killed on April 18, 1756, at the \"Battle of the Great Cacapon River\" or \"Mercer's Massacre.\" All four of John Mercer's sons attended the College of Willilam and Mary\n\nUncle by marriage to George Mason, became Mason's legal guardian, along with Mason's mother. Mason studied in Mercer's private library. The Mercer Library at the Prince William Campus of George Mason University is named in his honor.\n\nGrandfather of General George Mercer Brooke. Also grandfather of Charles Fenton Mercer (1778–1858; son of James).\n"}
{"id": "49575249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49575249", "title": "Josephine Jewell Dodge", "text": "Josephine Jewell Dodge\n\nJosephine Jewell Dodge (February 11, 1855 – March 6, 1928) was an American educator, an early leader of the day nursery movement, and an anti-suffrage activist.\n\nJosephine Marshall Jewell was born in Hartford, Connecticut in 1855. Her father, Marshall Jewell, was Governor of Connecticut and United States Postmaster General, among other government posts. Josephine Jewell left Vassar College without a degree in 1873 to accompany her father to St. Petersburg, Russia, when he was serving as a diplomat there.\n\nJosephine Jewell Dodge sponsored the Virginia Day Nursery in New York City, a facility intended to provide child care to working mothers on the Lower East Side. Her program developed in 1888 to become the Jewell Day Nursery, which had a greater educational component. Dodge demonstrated her methods at the Columbian Exposition in 1893, and in 1895 she was founder and first president of the Association of Day Nurseries of New York City. By 1898 she was president of the National Federation of Day Nurseries.\n\nDodge's anti-suffrage activities occupied her later career. In 1911, she helped found and became president of the National Association Opposed to Woman Suffrage, a post she held for six years; she also edited the organization's publication, \"Woman's Protest.\" She was the target of a verbal attack at a 1915 \"riot\" between suffrage and anti-suffrage activists in Washington D. C. That same year, she spoke against suffrage in New Jersey, saying \"The life of the average woman is not so ordered as to give her first hand knowledge of those things which are the essentials of sound government...She is worthily employed in other departments of life, and the vote will not help her fulfill her obligations therein.\" She countered accusations that anti-suffrage activists were supported by \"liquor interests\" in hopes of preventing prohibition.\n\nA variety of rose was named for Mrs. Dodge, grown especially to decorate tables at an anti-suffrage meeting in New York's Hotel Astor.\n\nJosephine Jewell married Arthur Murray Dodge, son of Congressman William E. Dodge, in 1875. They had six sons together; their son Pliny died in 1889, as a small child; the other five sons lived to adulthood. Josephine was widowed when Arthur died in 1894. She died in Cannes, France, in 1928, and was buried in Simsbury, Connecticut.\n\nSome of Dodge's letters as a college student are archived in the Special Collections library at Vassar College.\n\nHer nieces by marriage included philanthropist Grace Hoadley Dodge and pro-suffrage social hostess Mary Melissa Hoadley Dodge, both daughters of William E. Dodge, Jr.\n\n"}
{"id": "3920403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3920403", "title": "Judgment summons", "text": "Judgment summons\n\nJudgment summons, in English law, a summons issued under the Debtors' Act 1869, on the application of a creditor who has obtained a judgment for the payment of a sum of money by instalments or otherwise, where the order for payment has not been complied with. The judgment summons cites the defendant to appear personally in court, and be examined on oath as to the means he has, or has had, since the date of the order or judgment made against him, to pay the same, and to show cause why he should not be committed to prison for his default. An order of commitment obtained in a judgment summons remains in force for a year only, and the extreme term of imprisonment is six weeks, dating from the time of lodging in prison.\n\nWhen a debtor has once been imprisoned, although for a period of less than six weeks, no second order of commitment can be made against him in respect of the same debt. But if the judgment be for payment by instalments a power of committal arises on default of payment for each instalment.\n\nHowever, if an order of commitment has never been executed, or becomes inoperative through lapse of time, a fresh commitment may be made.\n\nImprisonment does not operate as a satisfaction or extinguishment of a debt, or deprive a person of a right of execution against the land or goods of the person imprisoned in the same manner as there had been no imprisonment. In this regard the judgement summons procedure may be seen as a more extreme—because of the threat of imprisonment—version of the procedure under the Civil Procedure Rules procedure to obtain information from judgment debtors.\n\nA judgment summons may now be served by post in keeping with other Civil Procedure Rules actions but, if this option is chosen, then a commitment order cannot be obtained unless: (a) he appears at the hearing; or (b) it is made under section 110(2) of the Act.\n\nApplications for these are now made under County Court rules Order 28. There is a standard Civil Procedure Rules practice form which may be used to apply for the issue of the summons. The current fee for issue is £100.\n"}
{"id": "28431539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28431539", "title": "Karena Albers", "text": "Karena Albers\n\nKarena Albers is co-ounder of Whole World Water, a social enterprise that unites the hospitality & tourism industry to raise money for the nearly billion people that live without clean and safe drinking water, and co-founder of New York-based production company kontentreal.\n\nAlbers launched her own marketing company, Integrated Marketing International, which was later acquired by Fox Entertainment. \n\nFollowing this, Albers’ co-founded kontentreal in 2003 with Tad Fettig, which has produced films for PBS and the Sundance Channel. kontentreal debuted its first episodic series on PBS, \"e² design\", in the summer of 2006.\n\nHeadquartered in New York City, and the brainchild of Tad Fettig and Karena Albers, kontentreal produces documentaries that raise awareness of global environmental issues. Both were veterans of the advertising world — Fettig as a commercial cinematographer specializing in rigorous location shoots for clients including Levi's and The North Face, Albers out of DDB Worldwide in Chicago.\n\nLaunched in 2013, Whole World Water originated from a collective of creative thinkers who were seeking sustainable solutions for the hospitality and tourism industry. An idea emerged where if hotels, restaurants and spas filtered their own local water, bottled in reusable glass bottles, sold it to their guests and donated part of the proceeds to the Whole World Water Fund, they would not only be raising money for the billion people that do not have access to clean and safe drinking water, they would also be improving their bottom line. \n"}
{"id": "9729814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9729814", "title": "Kyosen Ōhashi", "text": "Kyosen Ōhashi\n\nBorn in Sumida, Tokyo, he grew up in Chiba prefecture and dropped out of the Waseda University. Declaring \"semi-retirement\", he then spent most of his time outside Japan, particularly in Canada during the summer, as well as in Australia and New Zealand during the winter in the northern hemisphere, in which he ran his \"OK Gift Shop\" (OK stands for Ohashi Kyosen).\n\nWhen he resigned in the House of Councillors, Ōhashi was succeeded by Marutei Tsurunen, the first European-descended and openly foreign-born Japanese person to serve in the Diet.\n\n"}
{"id": "37050015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37050015", "title": "Lawrence P. Kelly", "text": "Lawrence P. Kelly\n\nLawrence P. Kelly (December 18, 1913 – August 23, 1999) was an American accountant and business manager from Cudahy, Wisconsin who served one term (1963-1964) as a Democratic member of the Wisconsin State Assembly from Milwaukee County's 24th district.\n\nBorn in Sparta, Wisconsin, Kelly moved to Cudahy with his family. He managed movie theaters. He also served as mayor of Cudahy 1964-1988.\n"}
{"id": "2244185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2244185", "title": "Lilly Pulitzer", "text": "Lilly Pulitzer\n\nLillian Pulitzer Rousseau (born Lillian Lee McKim; November 10, 1931 – April 7, 2013), better known as Lilly Pulitzer, was an American socialite and fashion designer. She founded Lilly Pulitzer, Inc., which produces clothing and other such wares featuring bright, colorful, floral prints. As the brand is popular with high society, she was called the \"Queen of Prep\".\n\nLillian Lee \"Lilly\" McKim was born to socialites Robert V. McKim and his wife, Lillian (née Bostwick) in Roslyn, New York in 1931, the middle daughter of three. Her elder sister was named Mary Maude, and her younger sister was Florence Fitch. Her mother, Lillian Bostwick McKim was an heiress to the Standard Oil fortune. Robert and Lillian McKim divorced, and Lillian remarried, to Ogden Phipps, in 1937.\n\nShe attended the Chapin School in New York City, along with Jacqueline Lee Bouvier (the future Jacqueline Kennedy, First Lady of the United States). In 1949, she graduated from Miss Porter's School in Farmington, Connecticut. She attended the college-finishing school Finch College in New York City, but left after one semester to work as a midwife assistant with Frontier Nursing Service in Kentucky {according to townandcountrymag.com} and as a volunteer at the Veterans Hospital in The Bronx. \n\nBorn to an heiress of the Standard Oil fortune, she married Herbert Pulitzer Jr. (known as Peter), the grandson of Joseph Pulitzer; the publisher and founder of the Pulitzer Prize. Lilly and husband Peter Pulitzer settled in Palm Beach, Florida, shortly after their marriage. They owned several Florida citrus orange groves and, with produce from the groves, she opened a fruit juice stand on Via Mizner, just off Worth Avenue in Palm Beach. While working at the stand, Pulitzer found that squeezing juice made a mess of her clothes. Seeking to camouflage the juice stains, she designed a sleeveless shift dress made of bright, colorful printed cotton. She discovered that customers loved her dress, so she produced more to sell at her juice stand. Eventually, she was selling more dresses than juice, and decided to focus on designing and selling what had become known as her \"Lillys\". \n\nIn 1959, Pulitzer became president of her own company, Lilly Pulitzer, Inc. The company's main factory was in Miami, Florida and the fabrics were produced by the Key West Hand Print Fabrics company in Key West. From the 1960s to the early 1980s, Pulitzer's bright, colorful clothes were very popular, worn by elites such as Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, Caroline Kennedy, and members of the Rockefeller, Vanderbilt and Whitney families. Lilly Pulitzer was a former classmate of Jackie's. After Jackie was featured in Life magazine donning one of Lilly's famous shifts, many preppy ladies followed her lead. The Jacqueline dress is one of Lilly Pulitzer's most successful styles. By 1984, Lilly closed down the entire clothing operation.\nLilly later stated that the first shift dress her former classmate, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis was photographed in, was made of kitchen curtains.\n\nIn 1993, the rights to the brand were purchased by Sugartown Worldwide, Inc. They contacted Pulitzer with the hopes of reviving the brand because, \"they just loved Lilly, their mothers and sisters loved Lilly, and they wanted to bring the line back,\" Pulitzer said. Pulitzer was not involved in the day-to-day administration of the company, but she continued to serve in the role of creative consultant, approving new designs, fabrics, and collections, and branching out into other product lines. \n\nToday, the company maintains 75 Lilly Pulitzer Signature Stores (also known as Via Shops).\n\nThe brand, carried by 23 company-owned retail stores, also sells to independently owned shops and major department stores, such as Belk, Lord and Taylor, Nordstrom, Saks Fifth Avenue, and Neiman Marcus. On December 21, 2010, Sugartown Worldwide, Inc. was purchased by Oxford Industries, Inc.\n\nIn April 2015, Target announced a collaboration with Lilly Pulitzer. Within hours, the collection was almost entirely sold out, in stores and online.\n\nOn November 10, 2018 Worth Avenue store located at Palm Beach, Florida with in very close proximity of the original fruit juice stand has been opened officially with a big block party and fashion show on sections of Worth Avenue.\n\nAlong with women's clothing, the company also produces children's clothing, swim, shoes, jewelry, accessories, bedding (revived in 2010), and stationery. Lilly never wanted to produce clothing that was suited for the colder months. “It’s always summer somewhere,” she was quoted as saying. In accordance with Mrs. Pulitzer’s reported preferences, the dress was to be worn with bare feet and was lined, in order not to require underwear. The company launched an exclusive Bridal Collection in 2010. With everything Lilly does she follows the motto \"Everything is possible with sunshine and a little pink.\", which very accurately represents her fun and vibrant fabric designs. Every Lilly print hides a surprise. \"Lilly\" is painted into each one. If you look closely at your modern or vintage prints, you'll find it! The company had a collaboration with Target in the spring of 2015 which sold out in a matter of hours. Some Lilly Pulitzer fans were offended that the brand would be offered at discounted prices, and demand was so high for the collection that it crashed the Target website, angering many customers who were unable to purchase any of the products. The official launch date for the products was April 19, 2015.\n\nPulitzer published a pair of lifestyle books—\"Essentially Lilly: A Guide to Colorful Entertaining\" and \"Essentially Lilly: A Guide to Colorful Holidays\"—with her friend, author Jay Mulvaney, showcasing her entertaining style. She also released two desk calendar books, \"Essentially Lilly 2005 Social Butterfly Engagement Calendar\" and \"Essentially Lilly 2006 Party Animal Engagement Calendar\". She was known to make special collections with sorority prints on them. She has held contests on her Facebook page to vote on which sororities will get their own prints. In 2014, Lilly Pulitzer stopped the production of sorority printed items.\n\nIn 1950, she eloped with Herbert (Peter) Pulitzer Jr., grandson of publisher Joseph Pulitzer. The couple had three children: Peter, Minnie and Liza. In 1969, Lilly and Peter were divorced. She married Enrique Rousseau shortly thereafter. Although she legally changed her name to Lillian McKim Rousseau, her clothing company continued to operate under the \"Lilly Pulitzer\" label. She continued to reside in Palm Beach, Florida. Enrique Rousseau died of cancer in 1993.\n\nOn April 7, 2013, aged 81, Pulitzer-Rousseau died at her home in Palm Beach, Florida.Her son Peter spoke at her funeral service, saying, \"Our mother was a woman of extremes…She gave and gave and gave, and asked for nothing in return…. Joyous feelings just oozed out of her…. She showed us how to enjoy life.\"\n\nLisa Birnbach's tongue-in-cheek guides, \"The Official Preppy Handbook\" and its sequel \"True Prep: It’s a Whole New Old World\", feature Lilly Pulitzer clothing as must-have items for \"preppy\" women. \nThe Museum of Lifestyle & Fashion History in Boynton Beach, Florida, ran an exhibit from August 2010 through May 2011 about the clothing and designs of Lilly Pulitzer. Museum director Lori Durante stated \"Lilly Pulitzer fashion is relative to the American experience ... [it] is relevant to Palm Beach County, to Florida.\"\nIn 1966, The Washington Post reported that the dresses were “so popular that at the Southampton Lilly shop on Job’s Lane they are proudly put in clear plastic bags tied gaily with ribbons so that all the world may see the Lilly of your choice. It’s like carrying your own racing colors or flying a yacht flag for identification.”\nShe changed the summer uniform of countless thousands of American women who once wore flower printed cotton shirts, wrap around skirts and big, klonky, thick-soled loafers.The total look was usually that of a shirt tail flapping out awkwardly in the back. “Lilly Pulitzer,” the article continued, “neatly put a stop to all that.”\n\n"}
{"id": "18151117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18151117", "title": "Logistics Support System", "text": "Logistics Support System\n\nLogistics Support System (LSS) is a tool created by the Pan American Health Organization and six United Nations agencies for the purpose of facilitating the communication among humanitarian agencies, non-governmental organizations, donors, media or countries and enhancing the coordination of humanitarian supply chain. By creating matching tables to collect information from other tracking systems or by having access to already existing data in the systems' database, logistics support systems have the ability to provide decision supporting reports that show which relief supplies were received or delivered, where they have been stored, which relief supplies are requested and how useful they are at a specific moment. Sorting and classifying incoming supplies are also some functions of a logistics support system. Consequently, the function of the logistics support system enhances the proactivity of a humanitarian organization by improving problem traceability and performance monitoring and providing the advantage to timely change the plan of the supply chain without consequences.\n\nTwo modules of the logistics support system have been created: a module that operates under Windows systems and a second module that operates under a web browser. The Logistics Support System has been used in many natural disasters, including Pakistan earthquake in October 2005 and Bolivian floods in February 2006. This is being used in response to the earthquakes in Haiti and Chile 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "40164852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40164852", "title": "Ma Ying-piu", "text": "Ma Ying-piu\n\nMa Ying-piu (; 21 December 1860 – 15 July 1944) was a Hong Kong retailer and businessman. He founded the Sincere Department Store in 1900, the first Chinese-owned department store in China and was the \"father of Chinese department stores\".\n\nMa was born in Heungshan (today's Zhongshan) of the Kwangtung Province on 21 December 1860. Following his father's footstep who emigrated to Australia two decades before, Ma went to New South Wales at the age of 19 to work in a gold mine. He was also involved in the cultivation of bananas and the fruit trade which was dominated by Chinese at the time. In 1892, Ma founded the fruit trading firm Wing Sang Company with other Christian Chinese form his village.\nMa returned to Hong Kong in 1894 and set up a store. Impressed by the Western model of department stores, Ma opened the Sincere Department Store with other wealthy investors on 8 January 1900 at 172 Queen's Road Central, which became the first Chinese-owned department store in Hong Kong. In the store Ma introduced Western retailing ideas and engagement of both men and women as sales assistants for the first time which was seen as a revolutionary idea in the conservative colony. He also insisted on the policy of fixed price, practice of providing receipt for each sale and closing the stores on Sundays, being a Christian himself. \n\nThe Sincere opened its Canton branch in 1912 and Shanghai branch in 1917. A six-storey Hong Kong store was also opened and was listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in 1917. It had branches in the large cities such as Shanghai, Canton, Singapore, and Namning, with a paid-up capital of $7,000,000 at peak.{ Ma's business also diversified into banking, insurance, hotels and cosmetics, in the form of the National Commercial and Savings Bank, Ltd. in 1921, with an authorized capital of $5,000,000, as well as the Sincere Insurance and Investment Co. Ltd. and the Sincere Perfumery Factory. His business suffered from the Great Depression and the Second Sino-Japanese War in the 1930s which resulted in the collapse of his National Commercial Bank in 1935.\n\nMa has contributed large sums to schools and hospitals, especially in his native town of Heungshan including the establishment Sai Kwong Girls’ School in Shekki, the capital of Heungshan. He also became the first Chinese director of Lingnan College in Canton, to which he made major donations. The Ma Ying-piu Infirmary and the Ma Ying-piu Guesthouse of the Sun Yat-sen University which used to be the site of Lingnan College are named after him.\n\nMa first met revolutionary Sun Yat-sen, also a Heungshan native, in 1892 during a visit home and was impressed by his vision of the resurrection of China that he agreed to provide him financial support. He supported the anti-Japanese boycott of 1908 in which he spurned Japanese products and replaced by locally made products. He also helped set up the East Canton Red Cross Society to relieve men wounded in the Wuchang Uprising.\n\nHe married Fok Hing-tong (1872–1957), second daughter of Fok Ching-shang, the Vicar of St. Stephen's Anglican Church. Fok Hing-tong accompanied Ma to Australia and helped out his business. She also doubled as a saleswoman on occasion. She co-founded the Young Women's Christian Association (YWCA) in Hong Kong and became its chairwoman (1920–23) and director (1920–28, 1948–57). Under her leadership, the YWCA strongly supported the anti-\"mui tsai\" movement in the 1920s. The couple had 13 children, of which the fourth son, Ma Man-fai, was a social activist.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1786251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1786251", "title": "Martin Sorrell", "text": "Martin Sorrell\n\nSir Martin Stuart Sorrell (born 14 February 1945) is a British businessman and the founder of WPP plc, the world's largest advertising and PR group, both by revenue and the number of staff. Upon his retirement in April 2018, Sorrell was the longest-serving chief executive of a FTSE 100 company. He is also known for being consistently one of the UK's highest-paid corporate executives. Sorrell has served on boards and advisory bodies of a number of high-profile public, academic and business organisations, including several leading business schools, both in the UK and internationally.\n\nSir Martin Stuart Sorrell was born in London on 14 February 1945 to a Jewish family: his father was an electronics retailer, whose ancestors came from Russia, Poland and Romania. He was educated at the independent Haberdashers' Aske's Boys' School, then studied Economics at Christ's College, Cambridge, and gained an MBA from Harvard University in 1968.\n\nSorrell joined Glendinning Associates, then James Gulliver and then worked for the sports agent Mark McCormack. He joined Saatchi & Saatchi in 1975, and was group finance director from 1977 until 1984. Often referred to as \"the third brother\", he designed and carried out many of Saatchi's agency acquisitions. Sorrell undertook this by refining the practice of the ‘earn-out’.\n\nIn 1985, Sorrell privately invested in Wire and Plastic Products, a British wire shopping basket manufacturer, and joined it full-time as Chief Executive in 1986. He began to acquire \"below-the-line\" advertising-related companies, purchasing 18 in three years, including in 1987 when he stunned the agency world with a $566 million hostile takeover of J. Walter Thompson. Sorrell followed this in 1989 with another dramatic hostile $825 million buy of Ogilvy and Mather. Since 2000, WPP has also acquired two more integrated, global agency networks, Young & Rubicam and Grey.\n\nIn 2014, Sorrell received total compensation from WPP of GBP £40 million, his largest annual total since £53 million in 2004.\n\nIn August 2017, Sorrel said that \"digital disruption\" was forcing companies to change their business models and reach customers in different ways when shares in WPP fell by more than 10% at the start of trading after the advertising giant reported slowing sales and warned about future growth.\n\nIn September 2017, Sorrell criticised the marketing industry, arguing it is \"too competitive\" and that agencies value winning contracts, whether they are profitable or not, over content since making the headlines in a trade magazine is more important.\n\nIn 2017, Sorrell became the longest-serving CEO of any company featured in the U.K.'s benchmark FTSE 100 Index - having stewarded WPP since 1985.\n\nIn April 2018, Sorrell retired from WPP after 33 years, following allegations of personal misconduct and misuse of company assets. Sorrell has denied the allegations. Roberto Quarta, chairman of WPP, become Executive Chairman until the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer.\n\nIn 1997, he was appointed an Ambassador for British Business by the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and subsequently appointed to the Office's Panel 2000 aimed at rebranding Britain abroad. In 1999 he was appointed by the Secretary of State for Education and Employment to serve on the Council for Excellence in Management and Leadership.\n\nHe is a Governor of London Business School, and a member of the Advisory Boards of both the Judge Business School in Cambridge, UK and IESE in Spain. He is also Chairman of the Global Advisory Board of the Centre for International Business and Management (CIBAM), at the University of Cambridge, UK. In 1998, he was appointed to the Board of Directors of Associates of Harvard Business School and to the Board of the Indian School of Business.\n\nOn behalf of New York Mayor Michael Bloomberg, he chaired Media.NYC.2020, which reviewed the future of the global media industry, the implications for NYC, and suggested actionable next steps for the NYC government.\n\nSorrell was a \"Remainer\" in the run up to the Brexit referendum, and has expressed support for a second referendum on EU membership once the Brexit terms have been finalized, stating that when \"we finally see what the terms are of Brexit, then the electorate can be asked to reconfirm in whichever way possible, referendum or general election platform, that they still want to go ahead.” He also justified new investments in France, Germany, Italy and Spain as a means to protect WPP against immigration caps following Brexit, emphasising the importance of freedom of movement of WPP's work force, 17 percent are from EU countries other than the UK.\n\nIn 2005 Sorrell sold £9m of shares in WPP at the end of a restricted stock holding period. He also agreed to change a contract with the company which had been much criticised by institutional shareholders in WPP as being unfairly written in Sorrell's favour. Under the previous agreement if Sorrell had been terminated, it would have led to a very large payout; the new agreement provided him instead with no termination payment.\n\nIn 2005 his pay was £2.42 million including cash and bonuses. Further he exercised £52 million in share options, was entitled to a further £5.8million in stock, and deferred further options on another 2.65 million shares valued at £15 million until 2008. In 2011 Sorrell's pay package increased by 70% to £4.5 million after WPP's pre-tax profits rose 28%. In October 2011 Sorrell went on the BBC to defend large increases in his and other CEO pay packages at a time when real average wages in the Western world were declining.\n\nShareholders have criticised aspects of corporate governance at WPP. This came to the fore again in 2006 with the advent of two court cases revolving around alleged corruption in an Italian subsidiary and contract disputes with the US launch of the OK! magazine.\n\nIn June 2008 WPP drew strong criticism for the involvement of an agency, 'Imago', in which WPP's Y&R subsidiary held a minority interest, with the ZANU-PF presidential campaign in Zimbabwe. A report by the \"Financial Times\" found out that Imago was employed by Robert Mugabe's campaign for reelection to the presidency of Zimbabwe. WPP subsequently divested Y&R's minority interests in Zimbabwe.\n\nFollowing criticism about his pay from investors, Sorrell agreed to a pay cut that would have reduced his salary from £46 million in 2016 to £13 million by 2021.\n\nHe was knighted in the 2000 New Year Honours. On 27 September 2007, Sorrell was awarded the Harvard Business School’s highest honour, the Alumni Achievement Award, by Dean Jay O. Light. The award was also given to: Ayala Corp. chair Jaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala, A. Malachi Mixon of Invacare, Donna Dubinsky and Hansjörg Wyss of Synthes. In 2015 he was a Trustee of the British Museum.\n\nSorrell is married to Cristiana Falcone, director of media and entertainment industries at the World Economic Forum.\n\nSorrell was previously married to the American-born Sandra Finestone, with whom he has three sons, but the marriage broke down in 2003, as a result of Sorrell's \"obsession with work\". In October 2005, he cashed in £12 million of WPP shares to fund the divorce, in which Ms. Finestone, represented by Nicholas Mostyn QC, was awarded a £30 million settlement including: a £3.25m four-storey Georgian townhouse; two Harrods underground car parking spaces worth around £90,000 each; £23.5m in cash; £2m in bank deposits; and other assets including stocks and shares. Despite the divorce settlement, Sorrell still had 13 million shares, an estimated £80m stake in WPP, at the time of the divorce, which represented around 1% of the company, plus his 2005 pay settlement award.\n\nThe divorce settlement was, at the time, the largest divorce settlement in British legal history, and was unusual in being a 60/40 split in favour of Sorrell — a break from the previously established policy of a 50/50 split even in big-money divorces since an influential ruling by Appeal Court Justice Mathew Thorpe in the 2002 divorce between Harry and Shan Lambert established that the contribution to the household of non-working wives should be considered equal to their husbands'. In the \"Lambert\" judgement, Lord Justice Thorpe stated that \"special contribution remains a legitimate possibility but only in exceptional circumstances\"; Sorrell was the first husband deemed to have met that criterion in a subsequent divorce settlement, with Mr Justice Bennett citing Sorrell's \"special contribution\" to the family's wealth in justification.\n\nSorrell's three sons, Mark, Jonathan and Robert all went to Cambridge University and then Goldman Sachs, although two have since left. Jonathan Sorrell is president of the hedge fund Man Group.\n\n"}
{"id": "181123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=181123", "title": "Mexican Stock Exchange", "text": "Mexican Stock Exchange\n\nThe Mexican Stock Exchange (), commonly known as Mexican Bolsa, Mexbol, or BMV, is one of two stock exchanges in Mexico, the other being BIVA - Bolsa Institucional de Valores . It is the second largest stock exchange in Latin America, only after São Paulo based B3 in Brasil. It is also the fifth largest stock exchange in the Americas. The exchange platform is owned by BMV Group, which also owns the derivative exchange \"MexDer\" and the custody agency \"Indeval\".\n\nThe BMV was created out of the merger of the three stock exchanges which formerly operated in Mexico: The \"Bolsa de Valores de México\", which operated in Mexico City, the Bolsa de Occidente (\"Occidental Stock Exchange\") in Guadalajara, and the Bolsa de Monterrey (\"Monterrey Stock Exchange\"). The exchange kept modernising until its introduction of a fully electronic system for trading which was consolidated in 1999.\n\nIn 2014, the Mexican Stock Exchange completed its first trade as a part of MILA which, together with the stock exchanges of Santiago, Lima, and Colombia, is the second largest securities market by total capitalisation in Latin America.\n\nFrom 1880 to 1900, Plateros and Cadena streets in the historic centre of Mexico City were home to recurring meetings in which brokers and businessmen purchased and sold all kinds of commodities as well as stocks in public offerings. Afterwards, exclusive groups of shareholders and issuing company representatives would gather to negotiate behind closed doors in different places around the city.\nIn 1894, Manuel Algara, Camilo Arriaga, and Manuel Nicolín pushed, among the most distinguished brokers of the time, the idea of a normative and institutionalised system to trade securities. With the increased backing and widespread support for his ideas, the Bolsa Nacional (\"National Stock Exchange\") was founded on 31 October 1894 at 9 Plateros Street, later renamed Madero Street. Less than a year later, another group of brokers, led by Francisco A. Llerena and Luis G. Necochea, formed a society named Bolsa de México (\"Stock Exchange of Mexico)\", and registered as a competing establishment on 14 June 1895. Because of coinciding objectives and links between members of the two institutions, leaders began discussing a union between them. On 3 September 1895, the merger was finalised, keeping the name Bolsa de México, and the administrative offices at the Plateros Street address. The company was officially inaugurated on 21 October 1895.\n\nBy the start of the following year, Bolsa de México had three public issuing companies and eight private ones, among them, the Bank of Mexico, the National Bank of Mexico, and the (later acquired by Banco Santander).\nOn 1 March 1933, the Congress of Mexico passed and President Abelardo L. Rodríguez signed into law the Regulatory Decree of the General Law of Credit Institutions and Auxiliary Organisations, normalising the exchange of securities and the stock market in Mexico.\n\nBecause of the legal reforms of the time, and the concession authorised by Congress on 28 October 1933, which for the first time included stock exchanges, the charter and bylaws of the Bolsa de Valores de México, S.A. (Stock Exchange of Mexico) were approved, and on 5 September, the institution was incorporated. That same year, the National Securities Commission, later renamed National Banking and Securities Commission, was established to supervise the Bolsa de Valores de México.\n\nBecause of substantial industrial and commercial growth in Mexico mid-century, owing to the rise in the creation of maquiladoras in northern Mexico, as well as the accumulation of capital and the constant creation of new businesses at the time, the Monterrey Stock Exchange was established, and it grew to serve the entire North of the country, reaching over 100 listings. Soon after, businesses in Guadalajara started organising a third stock exchange, and in 1960, the Occidental Stock Exchange was established to serve the West coast of Mexico.\n\nBecause of low performance in the Guadalajara and Monterrey stock exchanges, however, Congress passed in 1975 the Securities' Market Law, which prompted the Bolsa de Valores de México to change its name to Bolsa Mexicana de Valores (Mexican Stock Exchange) and merge the other two exchange houses into it, creating thus the single entity that remains to this day the only stock exchange in Mexico.\n\nOn 19 April 1990, the Centro Bursátil was finished on Paseo de la Reforma, turning the Stock Exchange Centre into the heart of the financial district of Mexico City. Five years later, the BMV completely modernised the centre, introducing a completely electronic system (BMV-SENTRA) which was phased into the workings of the exchange, becoming fully operational by 1999.\n\nIn 2001, Citigroup became the first foreign company to begin trading in the BMV, opening the door to many new companies to do the same, especially from Central and South America. The same year, the Securities' Market Law was reformed according to the demutualisation of BMV. The following year, the Corporativo Mexicano del Mercado de Valores, S.A. de C.V. was constituted to manage the hiring of personnel, and administration of the Stock Exchange and other financial institutions within the Centre.\n\nIn 2003, the global market was made available through the BMV, allowing national investors access to foreign securities from within the country. In 2006, the Mexican securities market was opened to foreigners through the MexDer system, allowing them operation from anywhere in the world. In October of the same year, four ETFs (exchange-traded funds) over indexes of the stock exchange itself were listed, placing BMV in the first place in Latin America in terms of ETFs listed over own indexes, and as the leading stock exchange in terms of total ETFs.\n\nIn 2010, the BMV signed an alliance with the world's largest derivatives exchange, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, putting Mexican derivatives within reach of international investors.\nThe Mexican Stock Exchange, BMV, announced its first trade made as part of the Latin American Integrated Market (MILA by its Spanish initials) on 2 December 2014. The trade on MIILA was a $1,415 purchase of 200 shares in Chilean retailer Falabella, executed by GBM Mexico through GBM Chile. With the entry of Mexico into MILA, the integrated stock market now counts 798 issuers among the four countries, making it the biggest market by number of listed companies in Latin America, and the biggest in terms of market capitalization, according to the World Federation of Exchanges. The joint capitalization of the four bourses tops US$1.25 trillion, making it larger than the US$1.22 trillion BM&F Bovespa. The move comes largely as step in the integration efforts between Mexico, Chile, Colombia, and Peru, as members of the Pacific Alliance.\n\nBMV is now a public company following its IPO in June 2008, and its shares are traded on the BMV equities market. It operates by concession of the Secretariat of Finance and Public Credit. \n\nUntil its IPO BMV was owned by its members, which were a group of banks and brokerage firms. The exchange trades debt instruments including Federal Treasury certificates (CETES), Federal Government Development bonds (BONDES), Investment Unit bonds (UDIBONOS), Bankers acceptances, promissory notes with yield payable at maturity, commercial paper and development bank bonds. In addition, it also trades stocks, debentures, mutual fund shares, and warrants. Trading is conducted electronically through the BMV-SENTRA Equities System. Settlement is T+3, and trading hours are 8:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. for the capital markets and 8 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. for debt instruments (Monday through Friday),\n\nThe BMV calculates 13 indices of stock prices. Each index can be used as an underlying value for derivative products listed on specialized markets. The main benchmark stock index is called the IPC, which stands for Índice de Precios y Cotizaciones, and is the broadest indicator of the BMV's overall performance. It is made up of a balanced weighted selection of shares that are representative of all the shares listed on the exchange from various sectors across the economy, and is revised twice a year. Weight is determined by market capitalization. The IPC's value is related to the previous day's value, rather than the base date of October 30, 1978. Since February 2009 the IPC index has included BMV's own A shares. Indice Mexico (INMEX) is a market capitalization weighted index of 20 to 25 of the BMV's most highly marketable issuers, using their most representative series. The sample is limited to issuers with a minimum market value of $100 million and is revised every six months. The weighting cannot be greater than 10% at the start of each calculation period.\n\nSome major examples:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18862", "title": "Minimum wage", "text": "Minimum wage\n\nA minimum wage is the lowest remuneration that employers can legally pay their workers. Equivalently, it is the price floor below which workers may not sell their labor. Although minimum wage laws are in effect in many jurisdictions, differences of opinion exist about the benefits and drawbacks of a minimum wage. Supporters of the minimum wage say it increases the standard of living of workers, reduces poverty, reduces inequality, and boosts morale. In contrast, opponents of the minimum wage say it increases poverty, increases unemployment (particularly among unskilled or inexperienced workers) and is damaging to businesses, because excessively high minimum wages require businesses to raise the prices of their product or service to accommodate the extra expense of paying a higher wage.\n\nSupply and demand models point to welfare and employment losses from minimum wages. However, if the labor market is not perfectly competitive, minimum wages can increase the efficiency of the market. For example, in a monopsony labor market (i.e. only one employer available), a minimum wage set modestly above equilibrium wages can increase wages, employment, and economic efficiency. Considerable debate still exists among economists about the real-world effect of minimum wages.\n\nModern national laws enforcing compulsory union membership which prescribed minimum wages for their members were first passed in New Zealand and Australia in the 1890s. The movement for minimum wages was first motivated as a way to stop the exploitation of workers in sweatshops, by employers who were thought to have unfair bargaining power over them. Over time, minimum wages came to be seen as a way to help lower-income families. Most countries had introduced minimum wage legislation by the end of the 20th century.\n\nModern minimum wage laws trace their origin to the Ordinance of Labourers (1349), which was a decree by King Edward III that set a\" maximum wage\" for laborers in medieval England. King Edward III, who was a wealthy landowner, was dependent, like his lords, on serfs to work the land. In the autumn of 1348, the Black Plague reached England and decimated the population. The severe shortage of labor caused wages to soar and encouraged King Edward III to set a wage ceiling. Subsequent amendments to the ordinance, such as the Statute of Labourers (1351), increased the penalties for paying a wage above the set rates.\n\nWhile the laws governing wages initially set a ceiling on compensation, they were eventually used to set a living wage. An amendment to the Statute of Labourers in 1389 effectively fixed wages to the price of food. As time passed, the Justice of the Peace, who was charged with setting the maximum wage, also began to set formal minimum wages. The practice was eventually formalized with the passage of the Act Fixing a Minimum Wage in 1604 by King James I for workers in the textile industry.\n\nBy the early 19th century, the Statutes of Labourers was repealed as increasingly capitalistic England embraced \"laissez-faire\" policies which disfavored regulations of wages (whether upper or lower limits). The subsequent 19th century saw significant labor unrest affect many industrial nations. As trade unions were decriminalized during the century, attempts to control wages through collective agreement were made. However, this meant that a uniform minimum wage was not possible. In \"Principles of Political Economy\" in 1848, John Stuart Mill argued that because of the collective action problems that workers faced in organisation, it was a justified departure from \"laissez-faire\" policies (or freedom of contract) to regulate people's wages and hours by the law.\n\nIt was not until the 1890s that the first modern legislative attempts to regulate minimum wages were seen in New Zealand and Australia. The movement for a minimum wage was initially focused on stopping sweatshop labor and controlling the proliferation of sweatshops in manufacturing industries. The sweatshops employed large numbers of women and young workers, paying them what were considered to be substandard wages. The sweatshop owners were thought to have unfair bargaining power over their employees, and a minimum wage was proposed as a means to make them pay fairly. Over time, the focus changed to helping people, especially families, become more self-sufficient.\n\nThe first modern national minimum wages were enacted by the government recognition of unions which in turn established minimum wage policy among their members, as in New Zealand in 1894, followed by Australia in 1896 and the United Kingdom in 1909. In the United States, statutory minimum wages were first introduced nationally in 1938, and they were reintroduced and expanded in the United Kingdom in 1998. There is now legislation or binding collective bargaining regarding minimum wage in more than 90 percent of all countries. In the European Union, 22 member states out of 28 currently have national minimum wages. Other countries, such as Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Switzerland, Austria, and Italy, have no minimum wage laws, but rely on employer groups and trade unions to set minimum earnings through collective bargaining.\n\nMinimum wage rates vary greatly across many different jurisdictions, not only in setting a particular amount of money—for example $7.25 per hour ($14,500 per year) under certain US state laws (or $2.13 for employees who receive tips, which is known as the tipped minimum wage), $11.00 in the US state of Washington, or £7.83 (for those aged 25+) in the United Kingdom—but also in terms of which pay period (for example Russia and China set monthly minimum wages) or the scope of coverage. Currently the American federal minimum wage rests at seven dollars, twenty-five cents ($7.25) per hour. However, some states do not recognize the minimum wage law such as Louisiana and Tennessee. Other states operate below the federal minimum wage such as Georgia and Wyoming. Some jurisdictions even allow employers to count tips given to their workers as credit towards the minimum wage levels. India was one of the first developing countries to introduce minimum wage policy. It also has one of the most complicated systems with more than 1,200 minimum wage rates.\n\nCustoms and extra-legal pressures from governments or labor unions can produce a \"de facto\" minimum wage. So can international public opinion, by pressuring multinational companies to pay Third World workers wages usually found in more industrialized countries. The latter situation in Southeast Asia and Latin America was publicized in the 2000s, but it existed with companies in West Africa in the middle of the twentieth century.\n\nAmong the indicators that might be used to establish an initial minimum wage rate are ones that minimize the loss of jobs while preserving international competitiveness. Among these are general economic conditions as measured by real and nominal gross domestic product; inflation; labor supply and demand; wage levels, distribution and differentials; employment terms; productivity growth; labor costs; business operating costs; the number and trend of bankruptcies; economic freedom rankings; standards of living and the prevailing average wage rate.\n\nIn the business sector, concerns include the expected increased cost of doing business, threats to profitability, rising levels of unemployment (and subsequent higher government expenditure on welfare benefits raising tax rates), and the possible knock-on effects to the wages of more experienced workers who might already be earning the new statutory minimum wage, or slightly more. Among workers and their representatives, political considerations weigh in as labor leaders seek to win support by demanding the highest possible rate. Other concerns include purchasing power, inflation indexing and standardized working hours.\n\nIn the United States, the minimum wage promulgated by the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. According to the Economic Policy Institute, the minimum wage in the United States would have been $18.28 in 2013 if the minimum wage had kept pace with labor productivity. To adjust for increased rates of worker productivity in the United States, raising the minimum wage to $22 (or more) an hour has been presented.\n\nAccording to the supply and demand model of the labor market shown in many economics textbooks, increasing the minimum wage decreases the employment of minimum-wage workers. One such textbook states:\nA firm's cost is an increasing function of the wage rate. The higher the wage rate, the fewer hours an employer will demand of employees. This is because, as the wage rate rises, it becomes more expensive for firms to hire workers and so firms hire fewer workers (or hire them for fewer hours). The demand of labor curve is therefore shown as a line moving down and to the right. Since higher wages increase the quantity supplied, the supply of labor curve is upward sloping, and is shown as a line moving up and to the right. If no minimum wage is in place, wages will adjust until quantity of labor demanded is equal to quantity supplied, reaching equilibrium, where the supply and demand curves intersect. Minimum wage behaves as a classical price floor on labor. Standard theory says that, if set above the equilibrium price, more labor will be willing to be provided by workers than will be demanded by employers, creating a surplus of labor, i.e. unemployment. The economic model of markets predicts the same of other commodities (like milk and wheat, for example): Artificially raising the price of the commodity tends to cause an increase in quantity supplied and a decrease in quantity demanded. The result is a surplus of the commodity. When there is a wheat surplus, the government buys it. Since the government does not hire surplus labor, the labor surplus takes the form of unemployment, which tends to be higher with minimum wage laws than without them.\n\nThe supply and demand model implies that by mandating a price floor above the equilibrium wage, minimum wage laws will cause unemployment. This is because a greater number of people are willing to work at the higher wage while a smaller number of jobs will be available at the higher wage. Companies can be more selective in those whom they employ thus the least skilled and least experienced will typically be excluded. An imposition or increase of a minimum wage will generally only affect employment in the low-skill labor market, as the equilibrium wage is already at or below the minimum wage, whereas in higher skill labor markets the equilibrium wage is too high for a change in minimum wage to affect employment.\n\nThe supply and demand model predicts that raising the minimum wage helps workers whose wages are raised, and hurts people who are not hired (or lose their jobs) when companies cut back on employment. But proponents of the minimum wage hold that the situation is much more complicated than the model can account for. One complicating factor is possible monopsony in the labor market, whereby the individual employer has some market power in determining wages paid. Thus it is at least theoretically possible that the minimum wage may boost employment. Though single employer market power is unlikely to exist in most labor markets in the sense of the traditional 'company town,' asymmetric information, imperfect mobility, and the personal element of the labor transaction give some degree of wage-setting power to most firms.\n\nModern economic theory predicts that although an excessive minimum wage may raise unemployment as it fixes a price above most demand for labor, a minimum wage at a more reasonable level can increase employment, and enhance growth and efficiency. This is because labor markets are monopsonistic and workers persistently lack bargaining power. When poorer workers have more to spend it stimulates effective aggregate demand for goods and services.\n\nThe argument that a minimum wage decreases employment is based on a simple supply and demand model of the labor market. A number of economists (for example Pierangelo Garegnani, Robert L. Vienneau, and Arrigo Opocher & Ian Steedman), building on the work of Piero Sraffa, argue that that model, even given all its assumptions, is logically incoherent. Michael Anyadike-Danes and Wynne Godley argue, based on simulation results, that little of the empirical work done with the textbook model constitutes a potentially falsifiable theory, and consequently empirical evidence hardly exists for that model. Graham White argues, partially on the basis of Sraffianism, that the policy of increased labor market flexibility, including the reduction of minimum wages, does not have an \"intellectually coherent\" argument in economic theory.Gary Fields, Professor of Labor Economics and Economics at Cornell University, argues that the standard textbook model for the minimum wage is ambiguous, and that the standard theoretical arguments incorrectly measure only a one-sector market. Fields says a two-sector market, where \"the self-employed, service workers, and farm workers are typically excluded from minimum-wage coverage... [and with] one sector with minimum-wage coverage and the other without it [and possible mobility between the two],\" is the basis for better analysis. Through this model, Fields shows the typical theoretical argument to be ambiguous and says \"the predictions derived from the textbook model definitely do not carry over to the two-sector case. Therefore, since a non-covered sector exists nearly everywhere, the predictions of the textbook model simply cannot be relied on.\"\n\nAn alternate view of the labor market has low-wage labor markets characterized as monopsonistic competition wherein buyers (employers) have significantly more market power than do sellers (workers). This monopsony could be a result of intentional collusion between employers, or naturalistic factors such as segmented markets, search costs, information costs, imperfect mobility and the personal element of labor markets. In such a case a simple supply and demand graph would not yield the quantity of labor clearing and the wage rate. This is because while the upward sloping aggregate labor supply would remain unchanged, instead of using the upward labor supply curve shown in a supply and demand diagram, monopsonistic employers would use a steeper upward sloping curve corresponding to marginal expenditures to yield the intersection with the supply curve resulting in a wage rate lower than would be the case under competition. Also, the amount of labor sold would also be lower than the competitive optimal allocation.\n\nSuch a case is a type of market failure and results in workers being paid less than their marginal value. Under the monopsonistic assumption, an appropriately set minimum wage could increase both wages and employment, with the optimal level being equal to the marginal product of labor. This view emphasizes the role of minimum wages as a market regulation policy akin to antitrust policies, as opposed to an illusory \"free lunch\" for low-wage workers.\n\nAnother reason minimum wage may not affect employment in certain industries is that the demand for the product the employees produce is highly inelastic. For example, if management is forced to increase wages, management can pass on the increase in wage to consumers in the form of higher prices. Since demand for the product is highly inelastic, consumers continue to buy the product at the higher price and so the manager is not forced to lay off workers. Economist Paul Krugman argues this explanation neglects to explain why the firm was not charging this higher price absent the minimum wage.\n\nThree other possible reasons minimum wages do not affect employment were suggested by Alan Blinder: higher wages may reduce turnover, and hence training costs; raising the minimum wage may \"render moot\" the potential problem of recruiting workers at a higher wage than current workers; and minimum wage workers might represent such a small proportion of a business's cost that the increase is too small to matter. He admits that he does not know if these are correct, but argues that \"the list demonstrates that one can accept the new empirical findings and still be a card-carrying economist.\"\n\nEconomists disagree as to the measurable impact of minimum wages in practice. This disagreement usually takes the form of competing empirical tests of the elasticities of supply and demand in labor markets and the degree to which markets differ from the efficiency that models of perfect competition predict.\n\nEconomists have done empirical studies on different aspects of the minimum wage, including:\nUntil the mid-1990s, a general consensus existed among economists, both conservative and liberal, that the minimum wage reduced employment, especially among younger and low-skill workers. In addition to the basic supply-demand intuition, there were a number of empirical studies that supported this view. For example, Gramlich (1976) found that many of the benefits went to higher income families, and that teenagers were made worse off by the unemployment associated with the minimum wage.\n\nBrown et al. (1983) noted that time series studies to that point had found that for a 10 percent increase in the minimum wage, there was a decrease in teenage employment of 1–3 percent. However, the studies found wider variation, from 0 to over 3 percent, in their estimates for the effect on teenage unemployment (teenagers without a job and looking for one). In contrast to the simple supply and demand diagram, it was commonly found that teenagers withdrew from the labor force in response to the minimum wage, which produced the possibility of equal reductions in the supply as well as the demand for labor at a higher minimum wage and hence no impact on the unemployment rate. Using a variety of specifications of the employment and unemployment equations (using ordinary least squares vs. generalized least squares regression procedures, and linear vs. logarithmic specifications), they found that a 10 percent increase in the minimum wage caused a 1 percent decrease in teenage employment, and no change in the teenage unemployment rate. The study also found a small, but statistically significant, increase in unemployment for adults aged 20–24.\n\nWellington (1991) updated Brown et al.'s research with data through 1986 to provide new estimates encompassing a period when the real (i.e., inflation-adjusted) value of the minimum wage was declining, because it had not increased since 1981. She found that a 10% increase in the minimum wage decreased the absolute teenage employment by 0.6%, with no effect on the teen or young adult unemployment rates.\n\nSome research suggests that the unemployment effects of small minimum wage increases are dominated by other factors. In Florida, where voters approved an increase in 2004, a follow-up comprehensive study after the increase confirmed a strong economy with increased employment above previous years in Florida and better than in the US as a whole. When it comes to on-the-job training, some believe the increase in wages is taken out of training expenses. A 2001 empirical study found that there is \"no evidence that minimum wages reduce training, and little evidence that they tend to increase training.\"\n\nSome empirical studies have tried to ascertain the benefits of a minimum wage beyond employment effects. In an analysis of census data, Joseph Sabia and Robert Nielson found no statistically significant evidence that minimum wage increases helped reduce financial, housing, health, or food insecurity. This study was undertaken by the Employment Policies Institute, a think tank funded by the food, beverage and hospitality industries. In 2012, Michael Reich published an economic analysis that suggested that a proposed minimum wage hike in San Diego might stimulate the city's economy by about $190 million.\n\n\"The Economist\" wrote in December 2013: \"A minimum wage, providing it is not set too high, could thus boost pay with no ill effects on jobs...America's federal minimum wage, at 38% of median income, is one of the rich world's lowest. Some studies find no harm to employment from federal or state minimum wages, others see a small one, but none finds any serious damage. ... High minimum wages, however, particularly in rigid labour markets, do appear to hit employment. France has the rich world’s highest wage floor, at more than 60% of the median for adults and a far bigger fraction of the typical wage for the young. This helps explain why France also has shockingly high rates of youth unemployment: 26% for 15- to 24-year-olds.\"\n\nA 2018 study from the Center on Wage and Employment Dynamics at the University of California, Berkeley showed that minimum wage increases in Washington, Chicago, Seattle, San Francisco, Oakland, and San Jose gave workers higher pay without hampering job growth. \n\nIn 1992, the minimum wage in New Jersey increased from $4.25 to $5.05 per hour (an 18.8% increase), while in the adjacent state of Pennsylvania it remained at $4.25. David Card and Alan Krueger gathered information on fast food restaurants in New Jersey and eastern Pennsylvania in an attempt to see what effect this increase had on employment within New Jersey. A basic supply and demand model predicts that relative employment should have decreased in New Jersey. Card and Krueger surveyed employers before the April 1992 New Jersey increase, and again in November–December 1992, asking managers for data on the full-time equivalent staff level of their restaurants both times. Based on data from the employers' responses, the authors concluded that the increase in the minimum wage slightly increased employment in the New Jersey restaurants.\n\nCard and Krueger expanded on this initial article in their 1995 book \"Myth and Measurement: The New Economics of the Minimum Wage\". They argued that the negative employment effects of minimum wage laws are minimal if not non-existent. For example, they look at the 1992 increase in New Jersey's minimum wage, the 1988 rise in California's minimum wage, and the 1990–91 increases in the federal minimum wage. In addition to their own findings, they reanalyzed earlier studies with updated data, generally finding that the older results of a negative employment effect did not hold up in the larger datasets.\n\nIn 1996, David Neumark and William Wascher reexamined Card and Krueger's result using administrative payroll records from a sample of large fast food restaurant chains, and reported that minimum wage increases were followed by decreases in employment. An assessment of data collected and analyzed by Neumark and Wascher did not initially contradict the Card and Krueger results, but in a later edited version they found a four percent decrease in employment, and reported that \"the estimated disemployment effects in the payroll data are often statistically significant at the 5- or 10-percent level although there are some estimators and subsamples that yield insignificant—although almost always negative\" employment effects. Neumark and Wascher's conclusions were subsequently rebutted in a 2000 paper by Card and Krueger. A 2011 paper has reconciled the difference between Card and Krueger's survey data and Neumark and Wascher's payroll-based data. The paper shows that both datasets evidence conditional employment effects that are positive for small restaurants, but are negative for large fast-food restaurants. A 2014 analysis based on panel data found that the minimum wage reduces employment among teenagers.\n\nIn 1996 and 1997, the federal minimum wage was increased from $4.25 to $5.15, thereby increasing the minimum wage by $0.90 in Pennsylvania but by just $0.10 in New Jersey; this allowed for an examination of the effects of minimum wage increases in the same area, subsequent to the 1992 change studied by Card and Krueger. A study by Hoffman and Trace found the result anticipated by traditional theory: a detrimental effect on employment.\n\nFurther application of the methodology used by Card and Krueger by other researchers yielded results similar to their original findings, across additional data sets. A 2010 study by three economists (Arindrajit Dube of the University of Massachusetts Amherst, William Lester of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, and Michael Reich of the University of California, Berkeley), compared adjacent counties in different states where the minimum wage had been raised in one of the states. They analyzed employment trends for several categories of low-wage workers from 1990 to 2006 and found that increases in minimum wages had no negative effects on low-wage employment and successfully increased the income of workers in food services and retail employment, as well as the narrower category of workers in restaurants.\n\nHowever, a 2011 study by Baskaya and Rubinstein of Brown University found that at the federal level, \"a rise in minimum wage have [\"sic\"] an instantaneous impact on wage rates and a corresponding negative impact on employment\", stating, \"Minimum wage increases boost teenage wage rates and reduce teenage employment.\" Another 2011 study by Sen, Rybczynski, and Van De Waal found that \"a 10% increase in the minimum wage is significantly correlated with a 3−5% drop in teen employment.\" A 2012 study by Sabia, Hansen, and Burkhauser found that \"minimum wage increases can have substantial adverse labor demand effects for low-skilled individuals\", with the largest effects on those aged 16 to 24.\n\nA 2013 study by Meer and West concluded that \"the minimum wage reduces net job growth, primarily through its effect on job creation by expanding establishments ... most pronounced for younger workers and in industries with a higher proportion of low-wage workers.\" This study by Meer and West was later critiqued for its trends of assumption in the context of narrowly defined low-wage groups. The authors replied to the critiques and released additional data which addressed the criticism of their methodology, but did not resolve the issue of whether their data showed a causal relationship. Another 2013 study by Suzana Laporšek of the University of Primorska, on youth unemployment in Europe claimed there was \"a negative, statistically significant impact of minimum wage on youth employment.\" A 2013 study by labor economists Tony Fang and Carl Lin which studied minimum wages and employment in China, found that \"minimum wage changes have significant adverse effects on employment in the Eastern and Central regions of China, and result in disemployment for females, young adults, and low-skilled workers\".\n\nSeveral researchers have conducted statistical meta-analyses of the employment effects of the minimum wage. In 1995, Card and Krueger analyzed 14 earlier time-series studies on minimum wages and concluded that there was clear evidence of publication bias (in favor of studies that found a statistically significant negative employment effect). They point out that later studies, which had more data and lower standard errors, did not show the expected increase in t-statistic (almost all the studies had a t-statistic of about two, just above the level of statistical significance at the .05 level). Though a serious methodological indictment, opponents of the minimum wage largely ignored this issue; as Thomas Leonard noted, \"The silence is fairly deafening.\"\n\nIn 2005, T.D. Stanley showed that Card and Krueger's results could signify either publication bias or the absence of a minimum wage effect. However, using a different methodology, Stanley concluded that there is evidence of publication bias and that correction of this bias shows no relationship between the minimum wage and unemployment. In 2008, Hristos Doucouliagos and T.D. Stanley conducted a similar meta-analysis of 64 U.S. studies on disemployment effects and concluded that Card and Krueger's initial claim of publication bias is still correct. Moreover, they concluded, \"Once this publication selection is corrected, little or no evidence of a negative association between minimum wages and employment remains.\" In 2013, a meta-analysis of 16 UK studies found no significant effects on employment attributable to the minimum wage. a 2007 meta-analyses by David Neumark of 96 studies found a consistent, but not always statistically significant, negative effect on employment from increases in the minimum wage. \n\nMinimum wage laws affect workers in most low-paid fields of employment and have usually been judged against the criterion of reducing poverty. Minimum wage laws receive less support from economists than from the general public. Despite decades of experience and economic research, debates about the costs and benefits of minimum wages continue today.\n\nVarious groups have great ideological, political, financial, and emotional investments in issues surrounding minimum wage laws. For example, agencies that administer the laws have a vested interest in showing that \"their\" laws do not create unemployment, as do labor unions whose members' finances are protected by minimum wage laws. On the other side of the issue, low-wage employers such as restaurants finance the Employment Policies Institute, which has released numerous studies opposing the minimum wage. The presence of these powerful groups and factors means that the debate on the issue is not always based on dispassionate analysis. Additionally, it is extraordinarily difficult to separate the effects of minimum wage from all the other variables that affect employment.\n\nThe following table summarizes the arguments made by those for and against minimum wage laws:\n\nA widely circulated argument that the minimum wage was ineffective at reducing poverty was provided by George Stigler in 1949:\nIn 2006, the International Labour Organization (ILO) argued that the minimum wage could not be directly linked to unemployment in countries that have suffered job losses. In April 2010, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) released a report arguing that countries could alleviate teen unemployment by \"lowering the cost of employing low-skilled youth\" through a sub-minimum training wage. A study of U.S. states showed that businesses' annual and average payrolls grow faster and employment grew at a faster rate in states with a minimum wage. The study showed a correlation, but did not claim to prove causation.\n\nAlthough strongly opposed by both the business community and the Conservative Party when introduced in the UK in 1999, the Conservatives reversed their opposition in 2000. Accounts differ as to the effects of the minimum wage. The Centre for Economic Performance found no discernible impact on employment levels from the wage increases, while the Low Pay Commission found that employers had reduced their rate of hiring and employee hours employed, and found ways to cause current workers to be more productive (especially service companies). The Institute for the Study of Labor found prices in the minimum wage sector rose significantly faster than prices in non-minimum wage sectors, in the four years following the implementation of the minimum wage. Neither trade unions nor employer organizations contest the minimum wage, although the latter had especially done so heavily until 1999.\n\nIn 2014, supporters of minimum wage cited a study that found that job creation within the United States is faster in states that raised their minimum wages. In 2014, supporters of minimum wage cited news organizations who reported the state with the highest minimum-wage garnered more job creation than the rest of the United States.\n\nIn 2014, in Seattle, Washington, liberal and progressive business owners who had supported the city's new $15 minimum wage said they might hold off on expanding their businesses and thus creating new jobs, due to the uncertain timescale of the wage increase implementation. However, subsequently at least two of the business owners quoted did expand.\n\nThe dollar value of the minimum wage loses purchasing power over time due to inflation. Minimum wage laws, for instance proposals to index the minimum wage to average wages, have the potential to keep the dollar value of the minimum wage relevant and predictable.\n\nWith regard to the economic effects of introducing minimum wage legislation in Germany in January 2015, recent developments have shown that the feared increase in unemployment has not materialized, however, in some economic sectors and regions of the country, it came to a decline in job opportunities particularly for temporary and part-time workers, and some low-wage jobs have disappeared entirely. Because of this overall positive development, the Deutsche Bundesbank revised its opinion, and ascertained that “the impact of the introduction of the minimum wage on the total volume of work appears to be very limited in the present business cycle”.\n\nAccording to a 1978 article in the \"American Economic Review\", 90% of the economists surveyed agreed that the minimum wage increases unemployment among low-skilled workers. By 1992 the survey found 79% of economists in agreement with that statement, and by 2000, 46% were in full agreement with the statement and 28% agreed with provisos (74% total). The authors of the 2000 study also reweighted data from a 1990 sample to show that at that time 62% of academic economists agreed with the statement above, while 20% agreed with provisos and 18% disagreed. They state that the reduction on consensus on this question is \"likely\" due to the Card and Krueger research and subsequent debate.\n\nA similar survey in 2006 by Robert Whaples polled PhD members of the American Economic Association (AEA). Whaples found that 47% respondents wanted the minimum wage eliminated, 38% supported an increase, 14% wanted it kept at the current level, and 1% wanted it decreased. Another survey in 2007 conducted by the University of New Hampshire Survey Center found that 73% of labor economists surveyed in the United States believed 150% of the then-current minimum wage would result in employment losses and 68% believed a mandated minimum wage would cause an increase in hiring of workers with greater skills. 31% felt that no hiring changes would result.\n\nSurveys of labor economists have found a sharp split on the minimum wage. Fuchs et al. (1998) polled labor economists at the top 40 research universities in the United States on a variety of questions in the summer of 1996. Their 65 respondents were nearly evenly divided when asked if the minimum wage should be increased. They argued that the different policy views were not related to views on whether raising the minimum wage would reduce teen employment (the median economist said there would be a reduction of 1%), but on value differences such as income redistribution. Daniel B. Klein and Stewart Dompe conclude, on the basis of previous surveys, \"the average level of support for the minimum wage is somewhat higher among labor economists than among AEA members.\"\n\nIn 2007, Klein and Dompe conducted a non-anonymous survey of supporters of the minimum wage who had signed the \"Raise the Minimum Wage\" statement published by the Economic Policy Institute. 95 of the 605 signatories responded. They found that a majority signed on the grounds that it transferred income from employers to workers, or equalized bargaining power between them in the labor market. In addition, a majority considered disemployment to be a moderate potential drawback to the increase they supported.\n\nIn 2013, a diverse group of 37 economics professors was surveyed on their view of the minimum wage's impact on employment. 34% of respondents agreed with the statement, \"Raising the federal minimum wage to $9 per hour would make it noticeably harder for low-skilled workers to find employment.\" 32% disagreed and the remaining respondents were uncertain or had no opinion on the question. 47% agreed with the statement, \"The distortionary costs of raising the federal minimum wage to $9 per hour and indexing it to inflation are sufficiently small compared with the benefits to low-skilled workers who can find employment that this would be a desirable policy\", while 11% disagreed.\n\nEconomists and other political commentators have proposed alternatives to the minimum wage. They argue that these alternatives may address the issue of poverty better than a minimum wage, as it would benefit a broader population of low wage earners, not cause any unemployment, and distribute the costs widely rather than concentrating it on employers of low wage workers.\n\nA basic income (or negative income tax) is a system of social security that periodically provides each citizen with a sum of money that is sufficient to live on frugally. It is argued that recipients of the basic income would have considerably more bargaining power when negotiating a wage with an employer as there would be no risk of destitution for not taking the employment. As a result, the jobseeker could spend more time looking for a more appropriate or satisfying job, or they could wait until a higher-paying job appeared. Alternatively, they could spend more time increasing their skills in university, which would make them more suitable for higher-paying jobs, as well as provide numerous other benefits. Experiments on Basic Income and NIT in Canada and the USA show that people spent more time studying while the program was running.\n\nProponents argue that a basic income that is based on a broad tax base would be more economically efficient, as the minimum wage effectively imposes a high marginal tax on employers, causing losses in efficiency.\n\nA guaranteed minimum income is another proposed system of social welfare provision. It is similar to a basic income or negative income tax system, except that it is normally conditional and subject to a means test. Some proposals also stipulate a willingness to participate in the labor market, or a willingness to perform community services.\n\nA refundable tax credit is a mechanism whereby the tax system can reduce the tax owed by a household to below zero, and result in a net payment to the taxpayer beyond their own payments into the tax system. Examples of refundable tax credits include the earned income tax credit and the additional child tax credit in the US, and working tax credits and child tax credits in the UK. Such a system is slightly different from a negative income tax, in that the refundable tax credit is usually only paid to households that have earned at least some income. This policy is more targeted against poverty than the minimum wage, because it avoids subsidizing low-income workers who are supported by high-income households (for example, teenagers still living with their parents).\n\nIn the United States, earned income tax credit rates, also known as EITC or EIC, vary by state—some are refundable while other states do not allow a refundable tax credit. The federal EITC program has been expanded by a number of presidents including Jimmy Carter, Ronald Reagan, George H.W. Bush, and Bill Clinton. In 1986, President Reagan described the EITC as \"the best anti poverty, the best pro-family, the best job creation measure to come out of Congress.\" The ability of the earned income tax credit to deliver larger monetary benefits to the poor workers than an increase in the minimum wage and at a lower cost to society was documented in a 2007 report by the Congressional Budget Office.\n\nThe Adam Smith Institute prefers cutting taxes on the poor and middle class instead of raising wages as an alternative to the minimum wage.\n\nItaly, Sweden, Norway, Finland, and Denmark are examples of developed nations where there is no minimum wage that is required by legislation. Such nations, particularly the Nordics, have very high union participation rates. Instead, minimum wage standards in different sectors are set by collective bargaining.\n\nSome economists such as Scott Sumner and Edmund Phelps advocate a wage subsidy program. A wage subsidy is a payment made by a government for work people do. It is based either on an hourly basis or by income earned. Advocates argue that the primary deficiencies of the EITC and the minimum wage are best avoided by a wage subsidy. However, the wage subsidy in the United States suffers from a lack of political support from either major political party.\n\nIn January 2014, seven Nobel economists—Kenneth Arrow, Peter Diamond, Eric Maskin, Thomas Schelling, Robert Solow, Michael Spence, and Joseph Stiglitz—and 600 other economists wrote a letter to the US Congress and the US President urging that, by 2016, the US government should raise the minimum wage to $10.10. They endorsed the Minimum Wage Fairness Act which was introduced by US Senator Tom Harkin in 2013. U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders introduced a bill in 2015 that would raise the minimum wage to $15, and in his 2016 campaign for president ran on a platform of increasing it. Although Sanders did not become the nominee, the Democratic National Committee adopted his $15 minimum wage push in their 2016 party platform.\n\nReactions from former McDonald's USA Ed Rensi about raising minimum wage to $15 is to completely push humans out of the picture when it comes to labor if they are to pay minimum wage at $15 they would look into replacing humans with machines as that would be the more cost-effective than having employees that are ineffective. During an interview on FOX Business Network’s Mornings with Maria, he stated that he believes an increase to $15 an hour would cause job loss at an extraordinary level. Rensi also believes it does not only affect the fast food industry, franchising he sees as the best business model in the United States, it is dependent on people that have low job skills that have to grow and if you cannot pay them a reasonable wage then they are going to be replaced with machines.\n\nIn late March 2016, Governor of California Jerry Brown reached a deal to raise the minimum wage to $15 by 2022 for big businesses and 2023 for smaller businesses.\n\nIn contrast, the relatively high minimum wage in Puerto Rico has been blamed by various politicians and commentators as a highly significant factor in the Puerto Rican government-debt crisis. One study concluded that \"Employers are disinclined to hire workers because the US federal minimum wage is very high relative to the local average\".\n\n, unions were exempt from recent minimum wage increases in Chicago, Illinois, SeaTac, Washington, and Milwaukee County, Wisconsin, as well as the California cities of Los Angeles, San Francisco, Long Beach, San Jose, Richmond, and Oakland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12591081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12591081", "title": "Peter Cozens", "text": "Peter Cozens\n\n\"Not to be confused with Peter Cozzens\"\n\nPeter Cozens was the Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies New Zealand from 2002 until 2009 when he retired. The Centre is part of the School of Government at Victoria University of Wellington. As Director, Cozens promoted and contributes to research and discussion of New Zealand's strategic security environment.\n\nCozens grew up and attended school in the United Kingdom. From 1964 to 1972 he served in the British India Steam Navigation Company. He saw service in the company's cadetship, general cargo ships, passenger and cruise liners and consequently visited many ports of call in the Indian Ocean and in Asia. From 1972 to 1993 he served in the Royal New Zealand Navy and saw service in both the Pacific and Indian Oceans, retiring at the rank of Commander. He studied at the Royal Australian Naval Staff College and Victoria University where he researched Asian culture and civilisation, graduating with a Master of Arts.\n\nIn 1995 he was appointed as Administrator (or in some references Operations Manager) at the Centre for Strategic Studies under original Director Terence O'Brien. Following the departure of David Dickens in 2002, Cozens was promoted to Director. He also served as Executive Director of the New Zealand Membership Committee of the Council for Security Cooperation in the Asia Pacific (CSCAP).\n\nHe is an advocate for non-official or track two diplomacy. In a submission to the New Zealand government's 'Seriously Asia' conference in 2003, he expressed concerns about the country's commitment to understanding Asia. In particular, he lamented the lack of resources allocated to the work of think-tanks and track two organizations. Cozens has been quoted as saying the New Zealand Defence Force also needs to increase its expertise, in particular that there is a \"need to lift the academic ability of our officer cadre: this is well overdue for real professional development.\"\n\nAs former Executive Director of the Centre for Strategic Studies, Cozens' duties include directing research, giving speeches, providing media commentary and contributing to the School of Government's Masters of Strategic Studies degree. He managed several full-time staff members, and also oversees a number of the Centre's Senior Fellows, including former director Terence O'Brien, University of Auckland academic Stephen Hoadley, and Lance Beath. Cozens has also increasingly found himself raising money to support the Centre's activities.\n\nHe is also a Fellow of the Asia/Pacific Research Institute of New Zealand and serves on the Editorial Board of the Sea Power Centre - Australia working paper series.\n\nCozens has outlined his own views on strategic policy and security issues in numerous papers and books on terrorism, security and maritime cooperation in the Pacific-Asian region. In a 2005 newspaper interview, he called for a \"softly softly, catchy monkey\" approach to counter-terrorism, saying it would \"reward authorities more than a 'reds under the bed', or 'terrorist under the bed' approach.\" In response to an Australian report that warned about future resource competition in the Antarctic, Cozens said the New Zealand Government \"should think in terms of increasing New Zealand's military presence\" near the south pole. The idea was not welcomed by the New Zealand Defence Force. In an article in the Australian journal 'Security Challenges' he argued that the New Zealand Defence Force should be renamed the \"Armed Services of New Zealand\" to reflect the fact that it increasingly performs a range of non-traditional functions.\n\nCozens' views have not found universal support. A letter to The Listener magazine in May 2006 described him as an \"ex-navy wallah\" who needs his \"head read\".\n\nIn early 2007 Peter Cozens was taken to hospital for stress related heart problems related to overwork. He recovered well. In 2009, he retired.\n\n"}
{"id": "37466987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37466987", "title": "Phillip Khan", "text": "Phillip Khan\n\nAbdull Ghafar Khan (born 21 July 1962), better known as Phillip Khan, is a Hong Kong businessman and political activist. A Pakistani national born and raised in Hong Kong, Khan's ambitions to stand for election to the city's Legislative Council reportedly have been blocked by the refusal of the Hong Kong Immigration Department to consider his application for naturalisation as a Chinese national.\n\nKhan concurrently holds Pakistani nationality and British National (Overseas) status. His father came to Hong Kong in 1915, when the city was still ruled by the British Empire. His uncle served in the Hong Kong Police Force, and was killed in a bombing in 1944 during World War II. After the war, his father settled in Diamond Hill, where he ran a dairy farm. Khan himself was born in Hong Kong in 1962 and studied at the former Mansfield College in Knutsford Terrace, Tsim Sha Tsui; he was the only member of his class not of Chinese ethnicity, and thus became fluent in Cantonese. He graduated in 1976. During the 1980s, when the wave of emigration from Hong Kong was reaching its peak, Khan made the decision to remain in Hong Kong, stating that he saw it as his home. He runs a trading company, due to which he travels frequently to Shenzhen for business and speaks Mandarin Chinese as well.\n\nKhan suffered financial losses in the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers due to his investments in so-called \"Minibonds\" – structured financial products similar to equity-linked notes which were marketed to many members of the Hong Kong public with claims of being a safe and low-risk product. In the aftermath, he became involved in efforts to gain compensation for affected noteholders. In November 2008, Khan organised a protest march from Sogo Department Store in Causeway Bay to the Central Government Offices in Central; attendees shouted slogans calling for then-Chief Executive of Hong Kong Donald Tsang to step down and criticising the opacity of the banks' operations. The following month, when former US president Bill Clinton visited Hong Kong for the first annual meeting of the Clinton Foundation, Khan organised protests outside of the Grand Hyatt Hong Kong where Clinton was staying, in an attempt to draw attention to the issue. Roughly 90 people attended the protests.\n\nKhan continued leading protest activities throughout 2009 and 2010. In January 2009, Khan and four fellow protestors collected signatures from over two thousand affected noteholders and set off for neighbouring Macau to submit a petition to then-Vice-President of the People's Republic of China Xi Jinping, who was visiting the city. In 2010, after Standard Chartered admitted that they had made errors in estimating the risk associated with Minibonds, Khan led a protest outside of the Legislative Council Building, during which he stood in the middle of the street in an attempt to block a Standard Chartered company bus from departing the scene.\n\nKhan has twice attempted to submit applications to the Hong Kong Immigration Department for naturalisation as a Chinese national; however, each time, the immigration officer on duty refused to accept his papers, stating that he did not have a close relative who was a Chinese national. According to an Immigration Department spokesperson, applications will be taken from all persons submitting them, but under the , the Department is not required to inform the applicant of the reason for rejection. His inability to naturalise has also meant he cannot obtain a Home Return Permit for travel to mainland China; instead, he has to use his passport, waiting in line at immigration control at Luohu Port for more than half an hour each time and quickly running out of pages for passport stamps, requiring him to pay additional fees to add pages to his passport or renew it.\n\nNews of Khan's troubles prompted Equal Opportunities Commission Chairman Lam Woon-kwong to write a letter of concern to the Immigration Department. In December 2012, Khan organised public protests over the issue, marching and holding signs at the Central Government Complex in Tamar with roughly twenty other South Asians whose applications for naturalisation had similarly been rejected.\n\nIn the early 2000s, Khan participated in a number of Hong Kong political activities, including the Hong Kong 1 July marches against Basic Law Article 23 security legislation, as well as candlelight vigils in Victoria Park in memory of the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. He has also spoken out against the Hong Kong Education Bureau's refusal to develop a local Chinese-as-a-second-language curriculum for students from non-Chinese-speaking households.\n\n"}
{"id": "6037920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6037920", "title": "Pi Alpha Alpha", "text": "Pi Alpha Alpha\n\nPi Alpha Alpha (ΠΑΑ or PAA) is the national honor society for students of public administration. It is administered by the National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration in the United States.\n\nThe organization was formed to promote excellence in the study and practice of public administration and public affairs. There are 167 Pi Alpha Alpha chapters, with more than 30,000 members.\n\n\"The purpose of Pi Alpha Alpha is to encourage and recognize outstanding scholarship and accomplishment in public affairs and administration. Its objectives, such as fostering integrity, professionalism, and effective performance, promote the advancement of quality in the education and practice of the art and science of public affairs and administration. PAA membership identifies those with the highest performance levels in educational programs preparing them for public service careers.\"\n\nPi Alpha Alpha (PAA) was established in 1974 by NASPAA under the leadership of the first PAA president Don L. Bowen. This honor society began with the goal to encourage excellence and recognize students who have gone above and beyond in the study of public policy and administration.\n\nThere are three different membership types: student, faculty/staff, and honorary.\n\nStudents are required to have 50% of NASPAA degree program coursework completed and a GPA of 3.7.\n\nMemberships dues are set at $50 by PAA, and local chapters may collect additional dues for programming costs. Membership is for life.\n\n\"I pledge my support for the intellectual and professional advancement of the art and science of public administration and public affairs. I shall honor and respect the virtues and values of public service and those who serve.\n\n\"I shall uphold the eternal need for education that imbues public administrators with traditions of democratic governance.\n\n\"Moreover, as a member of Pi Alpha Alpha, I shall uphold the highest ethical standards applying to public service and will endeavor to encourage and engage in meaningful interaction with other members.\"\n\nPAA is a program within NASPAA, the global standard in public service education. NASPAA owns the registered trademark for PAA (U.S. Reg. No. 4,708,021). PAA is a sponsor of the annual NASPAA Student Simulation Competition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6706723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6706723", "title": "Pre-conception counseling", "text": "Pre-conception counseling\n\nPre-conception counseling (also called pre-conceptual counseling) is a meeting with a health-care professional (generally a physician or midwife) by a woman \"before\" attempting to become pregnant. It generally includes a pre-conception risk assessment for any potential complications of pregnancy as well as modifications of risk factors, such as increasing folic acid intake to reduce the risk of neural tube defects and counseling on smoking cessation, alcohol reduction, and medications that may compromise fetal development. Physicians, midwives and baby experts recommend that a woman visit them as soon as the woman is contemplating having a child, and optimally around 3 to 6 months before actual attempts are made to conceive. This time frame allows a woman to better prepare her body for successful conception (fertilization) and pregnancy, and allows her to reduce any health risks which are within her control. Agencies such as the March of Dimes have developed screening tools that healthcare providers can use with their patients. In addition, obstetricians or midwives (see Obstetrics, Midwifery, General Practitioner) have developed comprehensive check-lists and assessments for the woman who is planning to become pregnant.\n\nIn one sense, pre-conception counseling and assessment can be compared to a well-baby visit in which a baby is screened for normal health, normal development, with the benefit of identifying emerging problems that may have gone unnoticed in an infant. For a woman, the Pre-Conception Counseling Assessment and Screening is intended to assess normal health of a child-bearing woman, while at the same time identifying:\n\n\nA common obstacle to pre-conception counseling and assessment is that many pregnancies are still unplanned. Globally, 38% of pregnancies are unintended. For this reason, many experts recommend that all women of childbearing age be offered preconception care counseling regardless of intent to become pregnant.\n\nAnother common obstacle to pre-conception counseling and assessment is of women not knowing, realizing, or understanding the benefits of visiting their physician or midwife before trying to become pregnant. Most women still take for granted the biological aspects of becoming pregnant, and do not consider the value of pre-screening before becoming pregnant. Most women who want and anticipate having a baby are naturally prone to thinking in terms of having a well baby. In the majority of cases, women do not think about having a baby who has any kind of problem. Most women do not know how their own medical history could pose risks to a developing fetus. Likewise, they may not understand that pregnancy carries a certain number of risks as well. When family history risks and pregnancy risks are considered together, it may point to potential problems for that particular woman, or to her unborn baby once she becomes pregnant.\n\nPre-screening covers many body-system areas (not just the reproductive organs), as well as aspects of the woman's lifestyle, and family history information. It begins with basic information and becomes more in-depth, especially if the woman has had previous illnesses, diseases, etc. Pre-screening assessments begin with a questionnaire which the woman fills out, generally before seeing the physician or midwife. Some offices have the woman go over parts of the questionnaire with a Nurse Practitioner, if available.\n\nCertain blood work may be ordered. This often includes a CBC (Complete Blood Count) which can show anemia. A CBC includes WBC (White Blood Cell Count) which can show the presence of infection. Anemia and infection, indicating problems with the woman's overall health at that moment, can both affect a woman's ability to become pregnant at that time as well as affect the stability of the pregnancy and health of the fetus. In the majority of cases both infection and anemia can be treated once the cause is identified. Anemia may require ongoing evaluation and iron supplement.\n\nUrine sample or urinalysis can reveal the presence of proteinuria (protein in the urine), a possible indicator of infection or kidney disease, or the presence of blood which can indicate a urinary tract infection. Urinalysis might also show the presence of glucose (glycosuria), but women of child-bearing age are unlikely to have undiagnosed diabetes (this is separate from gestational diabetes that may occasionally develop during the course of a subsequent pregnancy).\n\nWhen women have pre-existing illnesses / conditions / diseases, these may add to pre-natal risks and will need ongoing evaluation. Also any medications which are used to treat these conditions will need monitored and possibly reduced or increased.\n\nThe presence of Diabetes remains a huge risk for the unborn child, and a woman will be screened specifically for this condition. Known diabetics will need monitored closely. For more information, see this online article Diabetes and Diabetic risks.\n\nA woman may need to adjust certain aspects of her health and well-being which are in her control. These usually include aspects of lifestyle, drug and alcohol use, exercise, rest and stress reduction. In addition, she may need to discontinue certain herbs or over-the-counter medications as recommended by her healthcare provider. Many physicians will also recommend pre-natal vitamins before a woman actually conceives in order to boost her overall health.\n\nPre-conception counseling in the United States is recommended to include:\n\n"}
{"id": "24029841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24029841", "title": "Probosutedjo", "text": "Probosutedjo\n\nProbosutedjo (1 May 1930 – 26 March 2018) was the younger half-brother of former Indonesian president Suharto. Like many Indonesians, he took only one name. Probosutedjo was one of seven children from his mother's second marriage, his father being Atmopawiro and his mother (also Suharto's mother) Sukirah. Like Suharto, he was born and raised in the small hamlet of Kemusuk to the west of the main town of Yogyakarta. (Suharto was the only child of their mother's first marriage.)\n\nFor most of his life, Probosutedjo maintained a close relationship with Suharto. Probosutedjo's business activities flourished under Suharto's New Order government. He developed business opportunities in the forestry sector having founded the \"PT Menara Hutan Buana\" company to carry on forestry activities. During the period of the New Order government, he co-founded the Indonesian Indigenous Entrepreneurs Association (HIPPI), a move that reportedly drew the ire of president Suharto.\n\nIn the 1980s, he was active in supporting the establishment of the Mercu Buana University in Indonesia with several campuses in various parts of Jakarta.\n\nDuring the 1970s, some of Probosutedjo's activities had became the focus of corruption allegations. In 2003, he was tried and convicted for corruption and the loss of $10 million from the Indonesian state. He was sentenced to four years in jail. He later won a reduction of his sentence to two years, initiating a probe by the Indonesian Corruption Eradication Commission into the alleged scandal of the \"judicial mafia\" which uncovered offers of $600,000 to various judges. Probosutedjo confessed to the scheme in October 2005, leading to the arrest of his lawyers. His full four-year term was reinstated. After a brief standoff at a hospital, in which he was reportedly protected by a group of police officers, he was arrested on November 30, 2005.\n\nLike other members of the extended Suharto family, he remained a supporter of his brother's activities after Suharto's death in 2008. He joined with others in recalling personal memories about Suharto in a book, \"Pak Harto: The untold stories\", published in 2011. And in 2013, he supported the publication of a book of anecdotes from palace-based reporters remembering Suharto entitled \"34 Palace Journalists talk about Pak Harto.\"\n\nProbosutedjo died on 26 March 2018 at the Cipto Mangunkusumo Hospital in Jakata. Later the same day his body was taken to his home village of Kemusuk near Yogyakarta accompanied by his family and members of the Suharto family including Titiek Suharto and Mamiek Suharto. A large crowd of local people from the Kemusuk area attended a ceremony for his burial in the local Soemenggalan cemetery. \n\nHe is survived by his wife Ratmani Probosutedjo and six children Diniarti Pertiwi, Septanto, Rita Ria Kurnianta, Rindangsari Kurniawati, Nurani Pujiastuti, and Priasto.\n"}
{"id": "21119143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21119143", "title": "Restaurant Empire II", "text": "Restaurant Empire II\n\nRestaurant Empire II is the sequel to \"Restaurant Empire\". It has new features such as new themes for American restaurants, over 700 pieces of new internal and external furniture and decorations, the addition of German cuisine and the city of Munich, and several others. The game has also been ported to Mac OS X by Virtual Programming, Ltd.\n\nThe player controls the kind of cuisine the restaurant serves (American, French, Italian, German). Along with Munich, other cities include Los Angeles, Paris, and Rome.\n\nAs a new feature, the player can also own various kinds of restaurants, including a coffee shop and a dessert house. In the campaign mode, many new features have been added, such as organizing performance in your restaurant and changing the colors of the uniforms on your staff. Returning characters are Armand and Michel LeBoeuf, Delia Delecoeur, and Don Corleone. The campaign mode features a remade version of the campaign in the original Restaurant Empire. The game also focuses more on the managerial aspects of running a restaurant empire.\n\nReviews have been mixed, with praise for adding new content and keeping the game alive, but complaints about micromanagement and the recycled graphics.\n\nMetacritic rates it as \"Mixed or average reviews.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "9758689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9758689", "title": "Ron Foxcroft", "text": "Ron Foxcroft\n\nRon Foxcroft (born November 5, 1945) is a Canadian businessman and former basketball referee. He is the Chairman, Founder & CEO of Fox 40 International, a company best known for manufacturing whistles, and CEO & Chairman of the Fluke Transportation Group, a transportation, warehousing and distribution specialist. Both companies are headquartered in Foxcroft's hometown of Hamilton, Ontario.\n\nFoxcroft bought the Fluke Transportation Group and built it from 3 trucks to 176 trucks, 475 trailers and 1.3 million square feet of warehousing. Fluke has the well-known slogan “IF IT’S ON TIME… IT’S A FLUKE.” While working at Fluke, Foxcroft also worked as a NCAA basketball referee. Foxcroft is Canada’s only NCAA referee. He has also officiated over 1600 international games in 30 countries.\n\nFoxcroft often became frustrated with the traditional design of referees' whistles, which features a \"pea\" (cork ball) inside that is prone to jamming, thereby preventing the whistle from producing sound. He was inspired to create a \"pealess\" whistle following incidents in international games including the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal and the 1984 pre-Olympics game in São Paulo, in which Foxcroft witnessed an obvious foul but he could not stop play as his whistle was rendered useless by a jammed pea; play continued and the referees were booed by spectators. Foxcroft collaborated with an Ontario design consultant, Chuck Shepherd, to design a pealess whistle; they established Fox 40 International in 1987, and the company's whistles were first used at the 1987 Pan American Games in Indianapolis. Throughout the 1990s, Fox 40 whistles became the standard whistle for referees and officials in numerous major professional sports leagues including the NFL, CFL, NHL, NCAA and NBA; it has also been adopted as a standard by numerous public safety agencies around the world. Today, Fox 40 International dominates the whistle industry with thousands of whistles produced each day in Canada.\n\nFoxcroft has received many awards; he received an Honorary Doctorate from McMaster University, was named Hamilton Distinguished Citizen of the Year, and was inducted into the Hamilton Gallery of Distinction, recipient of the Queen’s Jubilee Medal. He was named by Profit Magazine as one of the 10 top Canadian entrepreneurs of the decade and inducted into the Burlington Entrepreneur Hall of Fame, the Canadian Basketball Hall of Fame, and the Hamilton Sports Hall of Fame. Foxcroft is also the Honorary Colonel of the Argyll & Sutherland Highlanders of Canada (Princess Louise's).\n\nToday, Foxcroft remains CEO of both Fluke Transportation and Fox 40 International Inc. He is also employed by the NBA to evaluate the performance of their referees. Foxcroft also works as a motivational speaker and supports charitable causes.\n\n"}
{"id": "7257591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7257591", "title": "Schultz Building", "text": "Schultz Building\n\nThe Schultz Building, formerly the Atlantic National Bank Annex, is a historic building in Jacksonville, Florida, United States. It was built between 1925 and 1926 for the Atlantic National Bank as an annex to the Atlantic National Bank Building, located immediately behind it. It stands at 118 West Adams Street, and was added to the U.S. National Register of Historic Places in 1997 as part of the Downtown Jacksonville Multiple Property Submission.\n\nThe Atlantic National Bank, established in 1903, had built the Atlantic National Bank Building (now 121 Atlantic Center) on 121 West Forsyth Street in 1909. By 1925 the bank had grown such that it required additional space. To accommodate their needs, the bank built the Annex directly behind the headquarters at 118 West Adams Street.\n\nThe Annex was designed by Jacksonville architects Marsh and Saxelbye and constructed by New York City firm George A. Fuller Co. between 1925 and 1926. Though it had a different architect than the headquarters, its facade is very similar to the older building's, with white terra cotta and decorative elements such as cartouches, a balustrade, and a dentiled cornice. The building stands ten stories high and cost around $400,000 to build.\n\nThe Atlantic National Bank merged with First Union in 1985, and both buildings subsequently changed hands. The Annex's lower facade was altered. In the 1990s it was recognized as one of Jacksonville's most significant historic buildings, and was included in the Downtown Jacksonville Multiple Property Submission, a Multiple Property Submission to the National Register of Historic Places. It was added to the National Register on November 7, 1997.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17699700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17699700", "title": "Shutdown (economics)", "text": "Shutdown (economics)\n\nIn economics, a firm will choose to implement a shutdown of production when the revenue received from the sale of the goods or services produced cannot even cover the fixed costs of production. In that situation, the firm will experience a higher loss when it produces, compared to not producing at all. \n\nTechnically, shutdown occurs if marginal revenue is below average variable cost at the profit-maximizing positive level of output. Producing anything would not generate revenue significant enough to offset the associated variable costs; producing some output would add losses (additional costs in excess of revenues) to the costs inevitably being incurred (the fixed costs). By not producing, the firm loses only the fixed costs.\n\nThe goal of a firm is to maximize profits or minimize losses. The firm can achieve this goal by following two rules. First, the firm should operate, if at all, at the level of output where marginal revenue equals marginal cost. Second, the firm should shut down rather than operate if it can reduce losses by doing so. \nGenerally, a firm must have revenue formula_1, total costs, in order to avoid losses. However, in the short run, all fixed costs are sunk costs. Netting out fixed costs, a firm then faces the requirement that formula_2, variable costs, in order to continue operating. Thus, a firm will find it more profitable to operate so long as the market price \"p ≥ AVC\", average variable cost. Conventionally stated the shutdown rule is: \"in the short run a firm should continue to operate if price exceeds average variable costs.\" Restated, the rule is that to produce in the short run a firm must earn sufficient revenue to cover its variable costs. The rationale for the rule is straightforward. By shutting down a firm avoids all variable costs. However, the firm must still pay fixed costs. Because fixed cost must be paid regardless of whether a firm operates they should not be considered in deciding whether to produce or shut down.\n\nThus in determining whether to shut down a firm should compare total revenue to total variable costs (VC) rather than total costs (FC (fixed costs) + VC). If the revenue the firm is receiving is greater than its variable cost (R > VC) then the firm is covering all variable cost plus there is additional revenue which partially or entirely offsets fixed costs. (The size of the fixed costs is irrelevant as it is a sunk cost. The same consideration is used whether fixed costs are one dollar or one million dollars.) On the other hand if VC > R then the firm is not even covering its production costs and it should immediately shut down. The rule is conventionally stated in terms of price (average revenue) and average variable costs. The rules are equivalent—if one divides both sides of inequality TR > VC (total revenue exceeds variable costs) by the output quantity Q one obtains P > AVC (price exceeds average variable cost)). If the firm decides to operate it will produce where marginal revenue equals marginal costs because these conditions insure profit maximization (or equivalently, when profit is negative, loss minimization).\n\nAnother way to state the rule is that a firm should compare the profits from operating to those realized if it shut down, and select the option that produces the greater profit (positive or negative). A firm that is shut down is generating zero revenue and incurring no variable costs. However the firm still incurs fixed cost. So the firm’s profit equals the negative of fixed costs or (- FC). An operating firm is generating revenue, incurring variable costs and paying fixed costs. The operating firm's profit is R - VC - FC . The firm should continue to operate if R - VC - FC ≥ - FC which simplified is R ≥ VC. The difference between revenue, R, and variable costs, VC, is the contribution toward offsetting fixed costs, and any positive contribution is better than none. Thus, if R ≥ VC then the firm should operate. If R < VC the firm should shut down.\n\nAn implicit assumption of the above rules is that all fixed costs are sunk costs. When some costs are sunk and some are not sunk, total fixed costs (TFC) equal sunk fixed costs (SFC) plus non-sunk fixed costs (NSFC) or TFC = SFC + NSFC. When some fixed costs are non-sunk, the shutdown rule must be modified. As Besanko notes, to illustrate the new rule it is necessary to define a new cost curve, the average non-sunk cost curve, or ANSC. The ANSC equals the average variable costs plus the average non-sunk fixed cost or ANSC = AVC + ANFC. The new rule then becomes: if the price is greater than the minimum average costs, produce; if the price is between minimum average costs and minimum ANSC produce, and if the price is less than minimum ANSC for all levels of production, shut down. If all fixed costs are non-sunk, then (a competitive) firm would shut down if the price were below average total costs.\n\nA decision to shut down means that the firm is temporarily suspending production. It does not mean that the firm is going out of business (exiting the industry). If market conditions improve, due to prices increasing or production costs falling, the firm can resume production. Shutting down is a short-run decision. A firm that has shut down is not producing, but it still retains its capital assets; however, the firm cannot leave the industry or avoid its fixed costs in the short run. \n\nHowever, a firm will not choose to incur losses indefinitely. In the long run, the firm will have to decide whether to continue in business or to leave the industry and pursue profits elsewhere. Exit is a long-term decision. A firm that has exited an industry has avoided all commitments and freed all capital for use in more profitable enterprises. A firm that exits an industry earns no revenue but it incurs no costs, fixed or variable. \n\nThe long-run decision is based on the relationship of the price P and long-run average costs LRAC. If P ≥ LRAC then the firm will not exit the industry. If P < LRAC, then the firm will exit the industry. These comparisons will be made after the firm has made the necessary and feasible long-term adjustments. \n\nIn the long run a firm operates where marginal revenue equals long-run marginal costs, but only if it decides to remain in the industry. Thus the firm's long-run supply curve is the long run marginal cost curve above the minimum point of the long run average cost curve.\n\nA monopolist should shut down when price (average revenue) is less than average variable cost for every output level; in other words, it should shut down if the demand curve is entirely below the average variable cost curve. Under these circumstances, even at the profit-maximizing level of output (where MR = MC, marginal revenue equals marginal cost) average revenue would be lower than average variable costs and the monopolist would be better off shutting down in the short run.\n\nThe short run shutdown point for a competitive firm is the output level at the minimum of the average variable cost curve. Assume that a firm's total cost function is TC = Q -5Q +60Q +125. Then its variable cost function is\nQ -5Q +60Q, and its \naverage variable cost function is (Q -5Q +60Q)/Q= Q -5Q + 60. The slope of the average variable cost curve is the derivative of the latter, namely 2Q - 5. Equating this to zero to find the minimum gives Q = 2.5, at which level of output average variable cost is 53.75. Thus if the market price of the product drops below 53.75, the firm will choose to shut down production.\n\nThe long run shutdown point for a competitive firm is the output level at the minimum of the average total cost curve. Assume that a firm's total cost function is the same as above example. To find the shut down point in the long run, first take the derivative of ATC and then set it to zero and solve for Q. After getting Q plug it into the MC to get the price.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38221201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38221201", "title": "Social business process management", "text": "Social business process management\n\nSocial BPM is a discipline which combines traditional Business Process Management techniques with Web 2.0 \"social\" tools and technologies, to facilitate business improvement efforts.\n\nThere is debate about whether Social BPM is a methodology, a set of technologies, or just a buzzword. Forrester Research's Clay Richardson defines Social BPM to include:\n\n"}
{"id": "3425953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3425953", "title": "Social innovation", "text": "Social innovation\n\nSocial innovations are new strategies, concepts, ideas and organizations that aim to meet social needs resulting from working conditions, education, community development, and health. These ideas are created with the goal of extending and strengthening civil society. Social innovation includes the social \"processes\" of innovation, such as open source methods and techniques and also the innovations which have a social purpose—like activism, online volunteering, microcredit, or distance learning.\n\nProminent innovators associated with the term include Pakistani Akhter Hameed Khan, Bangladeshi Muhammad Yunus, the founder of Grameen Bank which pioneered the concept of microcredit for supporting innovations in many developing countries such as Asia, Africa and Latin America, and inspired programs like the Infolady Social Entrepreneurship Programme of Dnet (A Social Enterprise). \n\nSocial Innovation has an inter-sectoral approach and is universally applicable. Social Innovations are launched by a variety of actors, including research institutions, companies and independent organizations, which tend to use their respective definitions of Social Innovation. Therefore, it is worth discussing what distinguishes it from other forms of social work or innovation. \n\nSocial Innovation focuses on the process of innovation, how innovation and change take shape (as opposed to the more traditional definition of innovation, giving priority to the internal organization of firms and their productivity). It likewise centers on new work and new forms of cooperation (business models), especially on those that work towards the attainment of a sustainable society.\n\nThe Young Foundation, in order to distinguish between social and business innovation, stressed that social innovation is developed and diffused via organisations, whose primary purposes are not centred on mere profit maximisation. The Bureau of European Policy Advisers more precisely defined social innovation as socially oriented in both ends and means. According to these influential definitions, social innovation is characterised by: the capacity to address social needs that traditional policy seems increasingly unable to tackle; the empowerment of groups and individuals; and the willingness to change social relations. Hence, social innovation is often presented as a way to increase the quality of social services and their cost-effectiveness, offering equivalent, if not superior, outcomes despite considerable budget constraints.\n\nSocial innovation can take place within government; the for-profit sector, the nonprofit sector (also known as the third sector), or in the spaces between them. Research has focused on the types of platforms needed to facilitate such cross-sector collaborative social innovation.\n\nSocial entrepreneurship, like social enterprise, is typically in the nonprofit sector excluding both for-profit and public organizations. Both social entrepreneurship and social enterprise are important contributions to social innovation by creating social value and introducing new ways of achieving goals. Social entrepreneurship brings \"new patterns and possibilities for innovation\" and are willing to do things that existing organizations are not willing to do.\n\nSocial innovation is often an effort of mental creativity which involves fluency and flexibility from a wide range of disciplines. The act of social innovation in a sector is mostly connected with diverse disciplines within the society. The social innovation theory of 'connected difference' emphasizes three key dimensions to social innovation. First, innovations are usually new combinations or hybrids of existing elements, rather than completely new. Second, their practice involves cutting across organizational or disciplinary boundaries. Lastly, they leave behind compelling new relationships between previously separate individuals and groups. Social innovation is also gaining visibility within academia.\n\nSince 2014, a subdomain of social innovation has been defined in relation to the introduction of digital technologies. The subdomain is called digital social innovation and refers to \"a type of social and collaborative innovation in which innovators, users and communities collaborate using digital technologies to co-create knowledge and solutions for a wide range of social needs and at a scale and speed that was unimaginable before the rise of the Internet\".\n\nSocial innovation was discussed in the writings of figures such as Peter Drucker and Michael Young (founder of the Open University and dozens of other organizations) in the 1960s. It also appeared in the work of French writers in the 1970s, such as Pierre Rosanvallon, Jacques Fournier, and Jacques Attali. However, the themes and concepts in social innovation existed long before. Benjamin Franklin, for example, talked about small modifications within the social organization of communities that could help to solve everyday problems. Many radical 19th century reformers like Robert Owen, founder of the cooperative movement, promoted innovation in the social field and all of the great sociologists including Karl Marx, Max Weber and Émile Durkheim focused attention on broader processes of social change. Other theories of innovation became prominent in the 20th century, many of which had social implications, without putting social progress at the center of the theory. Joseph Schumpeter, for example, addressed the process of innovation directly with his theory of creative destruction and his definition of entrepreneurs as people who combined existing elements in new ways to create a new product or service. Beginning in the 1980s, writers on technological change increasingly addressed how social factors affect technology diffusion.\n\nThe article \"Rediscovering Social Innovation\" mentions how social innovations are dependent on history and the change in institutions. The article discusses the ten recent social innovations reflecting current change to include:\n\nOver the last two decades social innovation has gained significant popularity as a strategy to tackle new social risks including population ageing and its health correlates (Hubert, 2010; Mulgan et al., 2007, 2010; Murray, Caulier-Grice and Mulgan, 2010). However, as other concepts recently developed within the academic debate – among them, social capital (Ferragina, 2012) – social innovation might soon turn out to be simply another way to juxtapose the qualifier \"social\" to the private sector jargon, in order to avoid heated discussions on structural inequalities (Grisolia and Ferragina, 2015).\n\nIn the context of ‘neoliberal austerity’, a strong call in favour of social innovation might hide the attempt to shift public attention from structural deficiencies and disparities to individual and group responsibility, following the vision: \"doing more with less\". In order to guarantee universal coverage and universal social rights, however, the welfare state system cannot be managed with the logic of mere cost-effectiveness alone (Grisolia and Ferragina, 2015). A Universal coverage is the precondition for any well-functioning economy, not the other way around. As such, the enhancement of \"politically motivated policies under the pretence of budget cuts\" can be particularly dangerous in its consequences for population health (Kleinert and Horton, 2013, p. 1074). Social innovation per se might not be able to substantially tackle pressing social needs. Rather, the all-innovating and self-empowering jargon currently in vogue might disguise a dangerous inattention to structural inequalities, adversely affecting health outcomes across the board, but especially of the poorest. Among the therapies prescribed by the neoliberal orthodoxy – liberalisation, deregulation, devolution, individual or group empowerment – social innovation might soon reveal itself as a convenient buzzword, an eclectic concept to dissimulate political choices, legitimated by the doctrine of budgetary constraints. The redistribution of resources \"from past to present generations\" – keeping constant the overall public spending – and the shift from a \"transfer-based\" to a \"service-based\" welfare state would represent a truly innovative approach to social policy, offering a credible and responsible alternative to the magic wand of social innovation.\n\nAcademic research, blogs and websites feature social innovation, along with organizations working on the boundaries of research and practical action. Topics include:\n\n\nThe US created an Office for Social Innovation in the White House, which is funding projects that combine public and private resources. with foundations that support social innovation. In 2010, the US government listed 11 investments made by its 'Social Innovation Fund', with public funding more than matched by philanthropic organizations. This fund focuses on partnerships with charities, social enterprises, and business. Moreover, educational institutions are now increasingly supporting teaching and research in the area of social innovation. In addition to pioneered efforts by institutions such as the Harvard Business School's Initiative on Social Enterprise (launched 1993) and Said Business School's Skoll Centre for Social Entrepreneurship (launched 2003), INSEAD and other universities now offer short-term programs in Social Innovation, and a few such as Cambridge Judge Business School, University of Cambridge and Goldsmiths, University of London offer Masters courses dedicated entirely to the study of theory and practice in relation to social entrepreneurship and innovation.\n\nPublic policy makers support social innovation in the UK, Australia, China and Denmark, as well. The European Union’s innovation strategy was the first well-funded research and development strategy to emphasize social innovation.\n\nIn 2002, the South Australian government, led by Premier and Social Inclusion Minister Mike Rann, embraced a ten-year social innovation strategy with big investments and a focus on reform in areas such as homelessness, school retention, mental health and disability services.\n\nThe Common Ground and Street to Home homelessness initiatives and the Australian Centre for Social Innovation were established in Adelaide and many reforms trialed in South Australia have been adopted nationally throughout Australia. This initiative, headed by Monsignor David Cappo, South Australia's Social Inclusion Commissioner, was advised by 'Thinkers in Residence' Geoff Mulgan and New York social entrepreneur Rosanne Haggerty.\n\nLin and Chen, in \"The Impact of Societal and Social innovation: a case-based approach\" have argued that social innovation's goal is to produce actions that are \"socially valuable and good for many\".\n\nIn governance, its main role is to enhance and maximize the trust of citizens through active involvement in society, whether in the public or private sphere. Social innovation's role in curbing corruption is carried out through two main mediums. Firstly, it is institutionalized through actors (in the public and the private sectors), and secondly, it is executed with new tools available, specifically ICTs.\n\n\"Corruption cannot be tackled from the top, it has to be confronted from the grassroots\" according to John Githongo, a Kenyan member of Transparency International. The Stanford Social Innovation Review develops that grassroots innovations emerge through a combination of social and ethical capital. That is especially true when the system in which they lie fails to accommodate to people's needs.\n\nIn the fight against corruption, individuals or groups of citizens have used their position to lead battles against corruption. An example is the case of RosPil.net, a crowdsourcing website relying on anonymous tips and alerts to uncover and expose corruption in Russia, whether in the private or the public sector. The collective action permits a growing flow of information and offers, on a daily basis, around three promising tip-offs.\n\nAnother example is the initiative Agenda Pública, a Civil Society Organisation, which is paving way for transparent governance in Brazil by relying on the education of the country's public administrators, specifically in more remote and isolated rural areas. Agenda Pública trained more than 5,000 administrators in policy development and basic infrastructure, in order to promote effective parameters for transparency. They do so by making sure that environmental needs and basic financial, education and overall health are met to circumvent bribing.\n\nA UNDP study conducted amongst women grassroots organization around the world demonstrated that \"79% of women are better able to stand up against corruption if affiliated with a community group\". Another poll suggested that electing women into power in countries heavily affected by corruption should be strongly accompanied by an affiliation to a mobilized grassroots women's group. Moreover, 83% of female respondents gave preferences to organized women's leadership to pursue anti-corruption policies. Innovation lies mainly in the introduction of programmes facilitating access to information as well as a governance agenda designed to augment women's engagement in participatory monitoring.\n\nRich and Moberg in \"Beyond Governments\" claim that companies need to take the largest step against corruption and must engage in collective governance in order to include public policy and standards in their core business. It would be way to promote good practices, specifically socially responsible investing.\n\nFor example, in 2006, the corporate sector fully funded and instigated the creation and development of the Business Code of Conduct for Combating Corruption in Malawi. It is considered an anti-corruption task force which works hand in hand with local groups, members of governments, civil society and the media.\n\nAnderson, Wu and Cho argue that good governance and its benefits can be extrapolated through effective e-governance. The simplification of administrative task and open data transparency, coupled with a clear policy on corruption can have a substantial impact.They also advocate for the strengthening of the delivery of services by the public sector.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the government introduced in 2016 the Open Government National Action Plan with one of the main aim being improved transparency. One of the main commitments is the establishment of an Anti-Corruption Innovation Hub. It is the use of social innovation to mobilize social actors and entrepreneurs against corruption. It is perceived that it will \"catalyze and connect [an] innovation approach\" while promoting the sharing of good practices. Their plan of action has been supported by Switzerland, Indonesia, Spain, Georgia, Australia, the UAE, France and Norway.\n\nIn Kosovo, Support to Anti-Corruption Efforts in Kosovo (SAEK) has been developed in order to strengthen the capacities of the Kosovo Anti-Corruption Agency (KAA). They are using innovative ICT, web2.0 and social media technologies as a way to connect the government and younger generations by utilizing the potential of new technologies as well as \"giving citizens the opportunity to voice concerns, share observations online and to make these visible to the public while raising the awareness on the level and form of corruption occurring in Kosovo\". SAEK is considered a success as in the year it was launched, more than 1024 cases of corruption were reported (with half of them now resolved).\n\nAccording to the Inter-Agency Task Force on Financing for Development (part of the United Nations): \"in addition to being an important technology sector in its own right, information and communication technology (ICT) is important for linking agents in the innovation system\".\n\nOpen data is currently arising as a corruption-fighting mechanism. Indeed, as transparency in government data increases and becomes accessible to all, there will be opportunities for better accountability as it will increase the odds of uncovering governmental misconduct (specifically in government activities, budgets and expenditures for citizens). Its applications are various, including but not restricted to: following the money, open contracting, changing incentives and enabling cross-sector collaboration.\n\nIn 2015, one of the G20 priorities was to reduce corruption and to promote good governance. The Anti-Corruption Working Group (ACWG) developed the Anti-Corruption Open Data Principles in order to leverage open data as one of the key actions to create and foster accountability and transparency. The principles are directly derived from the International Open Data Charter, which specifies the release and use of government data to reduce the reach of corruption.\n\nTransparency International and the Web Foundation carried out a study on certain member countries of the G20 (Brazil, France, Germany, Indonesia and South Africa) to evaluate the effect of the principles on their fight against corruption.\n\nIn Indonesia, for example (Corruption in Indonesia), it is estimated that corruption has cost up to IDR 31,077 trillion to the country. Through public information availability, the country has tried to foster and promote its anti-corruption actions by utilizing its legal and institutional frameworks. Nonetheless, the access to datasets remains scarce while the lack of education amongst staff and citizens impedes the use of data as a tool against corruption.\n\nData mining was a crucial tool used in the famous anti-corruption investigation of the Panama Papers by way of the initiative of the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists. The amount of data reached was 2.6 terabytes or 11.5 billion documents. The implementation of a graph database allowed for better efficiency in the research and analysis of the documents as it found hidden links between accounts and owners that would have been hard to dig up otherwise. Mar Cabra, ICIJ Data Editor, claimed that the software used made them feel like: \"we [had] superpowers\".\n\nSocial media is amongst the newest factors that has been shown by researchers to reduce the impact of corruption.\n\nSocial media platforms have created a multi-way communication which contradicts the one-way channel of traditional media. It enables individuals to share experiences in a quick and cheap manner through its platforms. It facilitates exchanges of geographically separated individuals which makes it an important tool as a dialogue platform.\n\nIn many countries, cases of human rights violations and corruption have started to come out publicly. They challenge the status quo of the government holding the monopoly over information.\n\nThe World Economic Forum established in 2014 that social media could be a useful tool to drive anti-corruption because of its ability to advance commentary and information provision to the population. It is also useful because of its key role in investigating through collective action participation. They use the example of I Paid A Bribe, an Indian website inviting users to input their daily contact with corruption and whether they paid a bribe or not to a public servant.\n\nPetty corruption can be fought by the emergence of cashless payments, and more generally in a cashless economy.\n\nIn Kenya, M-Pesa was launched to allow people to transfer money through mobile phones. It is used by almost two-thirds of the population and is gaining momentum as it is opening its technology to other countries (Tanzania for example).\n\nAs traffic police is seen as one of the most notorious sources of corruption, M-Pesa proposed to create cashless payments on public buses to avoid the extortion of bribes.\n\nWhile there are currently some logistical and regulatory problems preventing it from getting traction, mobile banking is seen as a potential tool to fight petty corruption, specifically if it is accompanied by the proper framework for legislative action and good governance.\nLiterature on social innovation in relation to territorial/regional development covers innovation in the social economy, i.e. strategies for satisfaction of human needs; and innovation in the sense of transforming and/or sustaining social relations, especially governance relations at the regional and local level. Beginning in the late 1980s, Jean-Louis Laville and Frank Moulaert researched social innovation. In Canada CRISES initiated this type of research. Another, larger project was SINGOCOM a European Commission Framework 5 project, which pioneered so-called \"Alternative Models for Local Innovation\" (ALMOLIN). These models were further elaborated through community actions covered by KATARSIS and SOCIAL POLIS. More recent works focus on the societal role of the economic life in terms of innovations in social practices and social relations at the local and regional levels. Social Innovation, therefore, is increasingly seen as a process and a strategy to foster human development through solidarity, cooperation, and cultural diversity.\n\nThe EU funded URBACT programme is designed to help cities to exchange and learn around urban policies. The URBACT methodology can be seen as a social innovation action planning approach. A typical URBACT network would have ten cities working on a specific theme such as active inclusion or regenerating disadvantaged neighbourhoods. They examine good practice and then working through a local support group use the results to inform their local action plan.\n\nThe Social Innovation Europe initiative, funded by the European Commission's Directorate General for Enterprise and Industry, was set up to map social innovation at a European level, by creating a directory of grass-roots examples of social innovation from across the 27 member states.\n\nThe European Commission funded the SELUSI study between 2008 - 2013 that looked at over 550 social ventures and examined how these insights can spark change and innovation at a much larger scale. It looked at business models of social ventures in five countries - UK being one of them – identifying which specific practices evolved by social ventures are particularly successful, and how and by whom – be it social enterprise, public sector body or mainstream business – they can be most effectively scaled-up.\n\nThe European Commission has launched a new initiative (project) in 2013 under FP7 funding, with the aim to build a network of incubators for social innovation across regions and countries. This network facilitates identification of 300 social innovation examples and facilitates its scaling. The network is organised in a way to identify new models for scaling of social innovations across various geographical clusters in collaboration with each other, communicating the ideas, finding the tools and funds, developing business plans and models in order to promote the new promising ideas throughout Europe.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43296984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43296984", "title": "Vladislav Doronin", "text": "Vladislav Doronin\n\nVladislav Doronin (born 7 November 1962) is a businessman, international real estate developer and art collector. He is the founder of Moscow-based Capital Group, owner and chairman of Aman Resorts, and chairman and CEO of OKO Group.\n\nVladislav Doronin was born on November 7, 1962 in Saint Petersburg, Russia, (formerly Leningrad, RSFSR, Soviet Union.) He graduated from the Moscow Lomonosov State University. In 1991, he launched the ‘Capital Group’.\n\nIn 1985, he relocated to Geneva and then to Zug, where he worked under Marc Rich. Doronin started ‘Capital Group’ in 1991 as a commodity trading company. In 1993, Capital Group entered the Moscow commercial real estate market with class A offices and retail projects. Over time, its portfolio expanded with deluxe and business class residential developments. Capital Group has built up its portfolio to include 71 high-end residential and commercial projects with a total of 7 million square meters of space.\n\nIn February 2014, Vladislav Doronin became Aman Group's majority owner. The Aman Group is the holding company of Aman Resorts, a collection of international luxury resorts. In July 2014, Doronin and a minor shareholder were involved in a legal dispute regarding leadership of the group. As of September 2014, that dispute was still not fully resolved. In March 2016, the High Court in London confirmed that a settlement had been reached between Doronin and KPMG, liquidators for Amanat's PHRL company. The new holding company of the luxury hotel chain is called AH Overseas Ltd. As a result of the settlement, Doronin has full control over Aman Resorts.\n\nIn April 2015, Vladislav Doronin purchased floors 4-24 of the Crown Building on Fifth Avenue in New York for $500 million. In October 2017, Aman announced that the property would be the new location for Aman New York, the company's second urban destination after Aman Tokyo. Aman New York will be a condo and hotel combination, including 20 condos ranging in size from 1,140-square feet to a 14,000-square-foot penthouse which will sell for over $100 million.\n\nDoronin's real estate development company OKO Group announced in March 2016 a luxury residential development of a 649-foot, 57-story tower, Missoni Baia, in collaboration with Italian fashion house Missoni. The building's architect is Hani Rashid of Asymptote Architecture, the project's landscaping is by Swiss landscape architect Enzo Enea, and the interiors were designed by New York-based Paris Forino.\n\nIn October 2016, Doronin and OKO Group announced that they had hired Adrian Smith+Gordon Gill Architecture to design a condo tower in Miami's Brickell neighborhood. \n\nDoronin owned the publishing rights in Germany and Russia to \"Interview\" magazine, the style magazine founded by Andy Warhol.\n\nDoronin has an apartment in Capital City, a residential complex he developed in Moscow in 2003. His residence is a penthouse designed by the Italian architect Massimo Iosa Ghini. He also owns a private residence, Capital Hill Residence, outside of Moscow, the only private residence designed by architect Zaha Hadid.\n\nIn August 2016, Doronin was included in Surface Magazine’s Power 100 list of prominent individuals, including 15 in real estate and hospitality. \n\nAccording to Building.ru Doronin is one of the top ten most professional developers in Russia. His OKO Tower in central Moscow is 1,160 feet high, making it Europe’s tallest completed skyscraper. Doronin was acknowledged as the head of the list of “Top 1000 Russian Managers Rating 2011,” in the category of Development. Doronin was named one of the “Kings of Russian Real Estate” by Forbes in 2014. \nIn 2015, the \"New York Post\" recognized Doronin on their list of \"The 20 biggest power players in New York City real estate.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "58722631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58722631", "title": "Wale Aladejana", "text": "Wale Aladejana\n\nWale Aladejana (born May 16, 1984 in Ibadan, Oyo State) is a Nigerian Entrepreneur, Perfumer and Motivational Speaker. He is the founder and CEO of Sapphire scents, the first indigenous Perfume making company in Nigeria.\n\nAladejana was born to a middle-class family as the 7th child in a family of nine children. He attended King's College, Lagos, and later International School, Ibadan. He has a Bachelors of Science degree in Mass Communication from Bowen University.\n\nAladejana began his career with the TY Danjuma Foundation, a Non- Governmental Organization founded by Nigeria's former Chief of Army Staff Theophilus Danjuma, as a Programs assistant in Benin, South-South Nigeria. He moved to Abuja, Nigeria's Federal Capital in 2012 where he started his perfume company, Sapphire scents with only $100 in 2015 but is now valued at over $10 million. His perfume is sold across Nigeria, the US, Uk, Ireland, Cyprus, Ghana and Cameroon. Aladejana has many times attributed the success of his company to God and to popular Abuja pastor, Biodun Fatoyinbo, who gave him 1 million naira in 2015 to expand his business. Nollywood actress Tonto Dikeh became a brand ambassador of his company in 2018. \n"}
{"id": "25758017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25758017", "title": "William Cotts", "text": "William Cotts\n\nSir William Dingwall Mitchell Cotts, 1st Baronet, KBE (15 July 1871 – 20 January 1932) was a Scottish businessman and Liberal politician.\n\nCotts was born at Sanquhar in Scotland, the son of William Cotts. He was educated privately and at Wallace Hall Academy. In 1901, he married Agnes Sloane who was also from Sanquhar and they had two sons and a daughter. Cotts obtained his early business training in Dumfries and London and went in 1895 to South Africa, where he developed important business interests, realising the potential of the Natal coalfields and the transport and other infrastructure that was needed to support the coal and gold mining industries. He also had business interests in Britain and was sometime head of Mitchell, Cotts& Co. of London. The company traded as general merchants, owned collieries and steamships.\n\nCotts contested the Western Isles constituency at the 1918 general election as a Coalition Liberal but narrowly failed to take the seat which was won by an Independent Liberal, Dr Donald Murray with a majority of 390 votes. Cotts fought Murray for the seat again in 1922 standing as a National Liberal, i.e. a supporter of the David Lloyd George. This time he won, with a majority of 939. He served as MP until 1923 but did contest any further Parliamentary elections.\n\nCotts was a Justice of the Peace for the County of London and was appointed a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE) in 1919 for services to recruiting. He served on the Council of Westfield College, University of London Homes for Little Boys. He was created a baronet in 1921.\n\nCotts died suddenly at the age of 60 while travelling to Wales for medical treatment. He was succeeded in the Cotts baronetcy by his son William. Sir William Campbell Mitchell-Cotts (1902–1964), a barrister contested the Forest of Dean constituency at the 1929 general election as a Conservative. Mitchell-Cotts was in 1928 unpaid private secretary to Tory politician Duff Cooper.\n"}
