{"id": "24997724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24997724", "title": "1779 in sports", "text": "1779 in sports\n\n1779 in sports describes the year's events in world sport.\n\nEvents\n\nEvents\nEngland\n\nEvents\nEngland\n"}
{"id": "46191138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46191138", "title": "1958 British West Indies Championships", "text": "1958 British West Indies Championships\n\nThe 1958 British West Indies Championships was the second edition of the track and field competition between British colony nations in the Caribbean. A total of eighteen events were contested, all of them by men – women's events were not added until the following year.\n\nGeorge de Peana of British Guiana defended his 5000 metres/10,000 metres double from the previous edition. Trinidadian sprinters Hendrickson Harewood and Clifton Bertrand also defended their titles in the 100 metres and 200 metres, respectively. Betrand added the 400 metres title to his 200 m to become the first person to win two different sprint events at the competition.\n\nThe Trinidad and Tobago national championships were not held that year, as the country's governing body focused on hosting the wider regional tournament. The host nation topped the medal table at the competition, winning ten of the eighteen events on offer. Jamaica came second, with four gold medals, followed by British Guiana on three. William Gittens's gold for Grenada in the 400 metres hurdles made his country's first medallist at the championships, and also the first winner from outside of the three aforementioned nations.\n\n"}
{"id": "39436816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39436816", "title": "1986 Caribbean Series", "text": "1986 Caribbean Series\n\nThe XXVIII edition of the Caribbean Series (\"Serie del Caribe\") was played in . It was held from February 4 through February 9 with the baseball champion teams of the Dominican Republic, Águilas Cibaeñas; Mexico, Águilas de Mexicali; Puerto Rico, Indios de Mayagüez, and Venezuela, Tiburones de la Guaira. The format consisted of 12 games, each team facing the other teams twice. The games were played at Estadio Luis Aparicio El Grande in Maracaibo, Venezuela.\n\nTen years after their first Caribbean Series title, the Mexican club won again under the guide of veteran Cananea Reyes. Mexicali made history by winning three of four games in its last at-bat, two of them against the Dominican Republic.\n\nMexico was shut out twice in its first three games, but after four contests all four teams were tied at 2–2 for the first time in Series history. Mexicali finished strong and defeated the Dominican Republic and Puerto Rico to win the title, after host Venezuela was stopped by the Dominicans in the final contest of the tournament. Venezuela had crushed Mexico, 11–0, in their first confrontation, but the Mexicans took revenge in their second matchup with a 14–0 thumping. The other three victories of Mexicali were by one run difference. \n\nPitchers Jim Leopold and Jaime Orozco took two victories apiece, while the offensive support came from C Francisco Estrada, SS Houston Jiménez and CF John Kruk. The inspired Mexican club also included DH Nelson Barrera, 1B Lorenzo Bundy, RF Roy Johnson, 2B Juan Navarrete, and Ps Salomé Barojas and Sid Monge, among others. In addition, Cananea Reyes joined Cuban skipper Nap Reyes as the only managers to win two Series titles.\n\nThe clubs from the Dominican Republic and Venezuela tied for second place with 3–3 records. \n\nThe Dominican Republic's Águilas, managed by Winston Llenas, were a favorite to grasp the Series trophy, as the team was headed by players such as C Tony Peña, 2B Juan Samuel, 3B Domingo Ramos, SS Alfredo Griffin, LF Miguel Diloné, 1B Rufino Linares and CF Luis Polonia. The Águilas outscored their rivals, 36 to 30, but also topped the tournament with 15 errors. Eric Plunk, who posted a 1-0 record and a 3.21 ERA in two starts, was a bright spot in a pitching staff that included José Bautista, Ravelo Manzanillo, Pascual Pérez and Bob Patterson.\n\nThe Venezuelan Tiburones, managed by José Martínez, wasted home field advantage and was the only team outscored, 34 to 27. 1B Andrés Galarraga hit .407 and slugged .703, driving in five runs while leading the batters in home runs (2) and doubles (2). RF Tony Armas batted .300 with one homer and three RBI, and was very solid at defense. Starters Ubaldo Heredia (1-0, 0.00 ERA), Bryan Clark (1-0, 0.00 ERA) and Odell Jones (1-0, 3.60 ERA) combined for the three victories of the team, receiving some strong bullpen support from Luis Aponte (two saves, 0.00, 5.0 IP), Wilfredo Flores (0.00, 6⅔ IP) and Luis Sánchez (1.00 ERA, 3.0 IP). Other players in the roster included P Bill Mooneyham, C Tobias Hernández, and IFs Carlos Martínez, Gustavo Polidor, Al Pedrique and Argenis Salazar.\n\nMayagüez of Puerto Rico was managed by Nick Leyva and finished last with a 2–4 record. The team scored a second-best 31 runs, but lost two one-run games. 3B Randy Ready went 14-for-30 and captured both the batting title (.467) and the RBI lead (7), winning Series Most Valuable Player honors. His 14 hits tied a tournament record, which was set by Pedro Formental in the 1953 Series. Another highlight came from Luis DeLeón, who hurled a two-hit, complete game shutout against the eventual champions. Among the other roster members were Ps Luis Aquino, Edwin Correa, Bill Earley, José Guzmán, Jesús Hernáiz, Dale Mohorcic, Ray Searage and Candy Sierra; C Angel Rodríguez; DH Luis Quiñones; IFs Wally Joyner, Willie Lozado, Al Newman and José Oquendo, as well as OFs Bobby Bonilla, John Cangelosi and Henry Cotto.\n\n<br>\n\n<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "38795007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38795007", "title": "2013 French Road Cycling Cup", "text": "2013 French Road Cycling Cup\n\nThe 2013 French Road Cycling Cup was the 22nd edition of the French Road Cycling Cup.\n\nCompared to the previous edition, the Flèche d'Emeraude was replaced by the Tour de la Somme. The defending champion from 2012 was Samuel Dumoulin, who won for a second consecutive time after a third place in the final event allowed him to overtake Bryan Coquard and Anthony Geslin in the overall standings. Bryan Coquard still won the youth classification, while won the teams competition.\n\nIn order to be eligible for the classification, riders either had to be French or competed for a French-licensed team.\n\nIn order to be eligible for the classification, riders had to be younger than 25 and either had to be French or competed for a French-licensed team.\n\nOnly French teams are eligible to be classified in the teams classification.\n\n"}
{"id": "54585902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54585902", "title": "2018 Suncorp Super Netball season", "text": "2018 Suncorp Super Netball season\n\nThe 2018 Suncorp Super Netball season was the second season of the premier netball league in Australia. The season began on 28 April and concluded with the Grand Final on 26 August 2018. The start of the season was delayed to late April due to the 2018 Commonwealth Games, which was held earlier that month on the Gold Coast. The fixtures for the season were released on 11 October 2017.\n\nSunshine Coast Lightning were the defending premiers and successfully defended their title, defeating West Coast Fever in the Grand Final at Perth Arena. \n\nThe season is played over fourteen rounds, allowing every team to play each other twice, once at home and once away. The top four teams on the ladder at the conclusion of the regular season qualify for the finals series. In the first week of the finals series, the 1st ranked team hosts the 2nd ranked team in the major semi-final (with the winner of that match to qualify for the Grand Final) and the 3rd ranked team hosts the 4th ranked team in the minor semi-final (with the loser of that match eliminated). The loser of the major semi-final then hosts the winner of the minor semi-final in the preliminary final. The winner of the major semi-final then hosts the winner of the preliminary final in the Grand Final.\n\nNetball Australia announced a change to the points system for the regular season, with bonus points being introduced. Under the new system, teams earn 4 points for a win and 1 point for every quarter won in a match. A drawn match earns a team 2 points and drawing a quarter earns no points. The winning team can earn a maximum of 8 points per match.\n\nAdditionally, teams can request up to two time-outs per half and at any point in time while play is in progress, any one member of the team bench (players and team officials) listed on the official score sheet shall be permitted to move up and down their team bench within the bench zone to communicate with their on-court or off-court players. Finally, umpires can now award a penalty pass for delaying play or intimidation and quarter time and half time breaks will be increased by one and three minutes respectively.\n\nThe Nine Network televised two matches each round during the regular season and also televised all finals matches. Telstra televised the other two matches each round. Every match of the season was available to be streamed live via the Netball Australia App. Unlike 2017, Nine telecast their two matches on the main channel, rather than secondary channel 9Gem. The two matches broadcast on Nine were on Saturday and Sunday afternoon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54486003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54486003", "title": "2020 UEFA European Under-17 Championship", "text": "2020 UEFA European Under-17 Championship\n\nThe 2020 UEFA European Under-17 Championship (also known as UEFA Under-17 Euro 2020) will be the 19th edition of the UEFA European Under-17 Championship (38th edition if the Under-16 era is also included), the annual international youth football championship organised by UEFA for the men's under-17 national teams of Europe. Estonia, which were selected by UEFA on 9 December 2016, will host the tournament.\n\nA total of 16 teams will play in the tournament, with players born on or after 1 January 2003 eligible to participate.\n\nAll 55 UEFA nations entered the competition, and with the hosts Estonia qualifying automatically, the other 54 teams will compete in the qualifying competition to determine the remaining 15 spots in the final tournament. The qualifying competition consists of two rounds: Qualifying round, which takes place in autumn 2019, and Elite round, which takes place in spring 2020.\n\nThe following teams qualified for the final tournament.\n\n\"Note: All appearance statistics include only U-17 era (since 2002).\"\n"}
{"id": "21236422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21236422", "title": "ASAC Concorde", "text": "ASAC Concorde\n\nAssociation Sportive Artistique et Culturelle de la Concorde () known as ASAC Concorde is a Mauritanean football club based in Nouakchott. \n\nASAC Concorde was founded in Nouakchott on 1979. It's one of the oldest club in Mauritania.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20518693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20518693", "title": "Basketball Federation of India", "text": "Basketball Federation of India\n\nBasketball Federation of India (BFI) is the governing and controlling body of Basketball in India. It is responsible for the development and promotion of the sport at all levels. BFI manages all the national level basketball operations in India. It is involved in organizing training camps and national tournaments, and in preparing Indian teams for both men and women international competitions in various age categories. The national team of India is also called as Young Cagers.\n\nFirst national level tournaments were organized in India in 1934. The India national basketball team became a member of FIBA in 1936. The governing body, BFI, was formed in 1950. Poonam Mahajan is the President (and also the first women President) of Basketball Federation of India. The current head of BFI is R.S. Gill.\n\nThe Indian basketball players have also won several trophies for their country. There are 17 Indian basketball players, who have been honored by the Government of India through the Arjuna Award. 2 players were bestowed with Dhyan Chand Awards for lifetime achievement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19730332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19730332", "title": "Brunei Super Cup", "text": "Brunei Super Cup\n\nThe Brunei Super Cup is a Brunei football cup competition. It was first held in 2002, but has been played on and off since its inception. It is the curtain raiser to the Brunei football season. This competition is played between the league champion and the cup winner.\n\nWinners so far are: \n\n"}
{"id": "14604263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14604263", "title": "Cageball", "text": "Cageball\n\nCageball is a sport invented by the football coach Jörg Berger, seeking a way to play football (American soccer) despite bad winter conditions.\n\nIt is similar to traditional indoor football, although with some changes: as the name implies, one plays in a cage. Due to the enclosed environment, the game is faster and more dynamic, and putting greater emphasis on football technique.\n\nCageball is played on artificial turf. The playing field is usually 23x15 metres, but can vary somewhat due to hall constraints. The entire field is surrounded by a one-metre-high wall or fence, out of which extends a net for a further four metres upwards. This way, the ball is always in play, obsoleting all out-of-bound rules. Usually, a Cageball team consists of three field players and a goalkeeper, the latter which can also assume a \"flying\" role.\n\nNormal football rules apply when it comes to fouls and deliberate hand usage. Free kicks must be immediately carried out. The offside is not observed, and there are no throw-ins or goal kicks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57679969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57679969", "title": "Caloocan Sports Complex", "text": "Caloocan Sports Complex\n\nThe Caloocan Sports Complex is an indoor sporting arena located in Caloocan, Philippines.\n\nBuilt and operated by the Caloocan City Government, the coliseum has played host to the basketball games of the ASEAN Basketball League (ABL), the Philippine Super Liga, and the Maharlika Pilipinas Basketball League Home of The Caloocan Supremos. It has also been the venue of major boxing events, as well as conventions, concerts and sports festivals.\n\nOfficial Website of Caloocan City Government\n"}
{"id": "19532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19532", "title": "Cardiff Arms Park", "text": "Cardiff Arms Park\n\nCardiff Arms Park (), also known as The Arms Park and the BT Sport Cardiff Arms Park for sponsorship reasons from September 2014, is situated in the centre of Cardiff, Wales. It is primarily known as a rugby union stadium, but it also has a bowling green. The Arms Park was host to the British Empire and Commonwealth Games in 1958, and hosted four games in the 1991 Rugby World Cup, including the third-place play-off. The Arms Park also hosted the inaugural Heineken Cup Final of 1995–96 and the following year in 1996–97.\n\nThe history of the rugby ground begins with the first stands appearing for spectators in the ground in 1881–1882. Originally the Arms Park had a cricket ground to the north and a rugby union stadium to the south. By 1969, the cricket ground had been demolished to make way for the present day rugby ground to the north and a second rugby stadium to the south, called the National Stadium. The National Stadium, which was used by Wales national rugby union team, was officially opened on 7 April 1984, however in 1997 it was demolished to make way for the Millennium Stadium in 1999, which hosted the 1999 Rugby World Cup and became the national stadium of Wales. The rugby ground has remained the home of the semi-professional Cardiff RFC yet the professional Cardiff Blues regional rugby union team moved to the Cardiff City Stadium in 2009, but returned three years later.\n\nThe site is owned by Cardiff Athletic Club and has been host to many sports, apart from rugby union and cricket; they include athletics, association football, greyhound racing, tennis, British baseball and boxing. The site also has a bowling green to the north of the rugby ground, which is used by Cardiff Athletic Bowls Club, which is the bowls section of the Cardiff Athletic Club. The National Stadium also hosted many music concerts including Michael Jackson, David Bowie, Bon Jovi, The Rolling Stones and U2.\n\nThe Cardiff Arms Park site was originally called the Great Park, a swampy meadow behind the Cardiff Arms Hotel. The hotel was built by Sir Thomas Morgan, during the reign of Charles I. Cardiff Arms Park was named after this hotel. From 1803, the Cardiff Arms Hotel and the Park had become the property of the Bute family. The Arms Park soon became a popular place for sporting events, and by 1848, Cardiff Cricket Club was using the site for its cricket matches. However, by 1878, Cardiff Arms Hotel had been demolished.\n\nThe 3rd Marquess of Bute stipulated that the ground could only be used for \"recreational purposes\". At that time Cardiff Arms Park had a cricket ground to the north and a rugby union ground to the south. 1881–2 saw the first stands for spectators; they held 300 spectators and cost £50. The architect was Archibald Leitch, famous for designing Ibrox Stadium and Old Trafford, among others. In 1890, new standing areas were constructed along the entire length of the ground, with additional stands erected in 1896.\n\nBy 1912, the Cardiff Football Ground, as it was then known, had a new south stand and temporary stands on the north, east and west ends of the ground. The south stand was covered, while the north terrace was initially without a roof. The improvements were partly funded by the Welsh Rugby Union (WRU). The opening ceremony took place on 5 October 1912, with a match between Newport RFC and Cardiff RFC. The new ground was opened by Lord Ninian Crichton-Stuart. This new development increased the ground capacity to 43,000 and much improved the facilities at the ground compared to the earlier stands.\n\nIn 1922 John Crichton-Stuart, 4th Marquess of Bute, had sold the entire site and it was bought by the Cardiff Arms Park Company Limited for £30,000, it was then leased to the Cardiff Athletic Club (cricket and rugby sections) for 99 years at a cost of £200 per annum.\n\nDuring 1934 the cricket pavilion had been demolished to make way for the new North Stand, which was built on the rugby union ground, costing around £20,000. However, in 1941 the new North Stand and part of the west terracing had been badly damaged in the Blitz by the Luftwaffe during the Second World War.\n\nAt a general meeting of the WRU in June 1953, they made a decision, \"That until such time as the facilities at Swansea were improved, all international matches be played at Cardiff\". At the same time, plans were made for a new South Stand, which was estimated to cost £60,000, however the tender price came out at £90,000, a compromise was made, and it was decided to build a new upper South Stand costing £64,000 instead, with the Cardiff Athletic Club contributing £15,000 and the remainder coming from the WRU. The new South Stand opened in 1956, in time for the 1958 British Empire and Commonwealth Games. This brought the overall capacity of the Arms Park up to 60,000, of which 12,800 spectators were seated and the remainder standing.\n\nThe Arms Park hosted the 1958 British Empire and Commonwealth Games, which was used for the athletics events, but this event caused damage to the drainage system, so much so, that other rugby unions (England, Scotland and Ireland) complained after the Games about the state of the pitch. On 4 December 1960, due to torrential rain, the River Taff burst its banks with the Arms Park pitch being left under of water. The Development Committee was set up to resolve these issues on a permanent basis. They looked at various sites in Cardiff, but they all proved to be unsatisfactory. They also could not agree a solution with the Cardiff Athletic Club, so they purchased about of land at Island Farm in Bridgend, which was previously used as a prisoner-of-war camp. It is best known for being the camp where the biggest escape attempt was made by German prisoners of war in Great Britain during the Second World War. Due to problems including transport issues Glamorgan County Council never gave outline planning permission for the proposals and by June 1964 the scheme was abandoned. At that stage, the cricket ground to the north was still being used by Glamorgan County Cricket Club, and the rugby union ground to the south was used by the national Wales team and Cardiff RFC.\n\nBy 7 October 1966, the first floodlit game was held at Cardiff Arms Park, a game in which Cardiff RFC beat the Barbarians by 12 points to 8.\n\nThe National Stadium, which was also known as the Welsh National Rugby Ground, was designed by Osborne V Webb & Partners and built by G A Williamson & Associates of Porthcawl and Andrew Scott & Company of Port Talbot.\n\nAfter agreement from the Cardiff Athletic Club, the freehold of the south ground was transferred solely to the WRU in July 1968. Work could then begin on the new National Stadium. Glamorgan County Cricket Club would move to Sophia Gardens and the cricket ground to the north would be demolished and a new rugby union stadium built for Cardiff RFC, who would move out of the south ground, allowing the National Stadium to be built, for the sole use of the national rugby union team.\n\nOn 17 October 1970, the new North Stand and the Cardiff RFC ground was completed, the North Stand cost just over £1 million. The West Stand was opened in 1977 and the new East Terrace was completed by March 1980. By the time the final South Stand had been completed and the stadium officially opened on 7 April 1984, the South Stand had cost £4.5 million. At the start of the project, the total cost was estimated at £2.25 million, although by time it was finished in 1984, it had risen by nearly four times that amount.\n\nBoth stadia had approximately east-west alignment: the rugby ground to the north (Castle Street) end; the National Stadium to the south (Wood Street) end. The original capacity was 65,000 but this had to be reduced in later years to 53,000 for safety reasons. 11,000 of these were on the East Terrace and the conversion to all-seater stadium would have reduced the stadium capacity still further to 47,500. This capacity would have been much less than Twickenham and the other major rugby venues and also less than the demand for tickets to major events.\n\nA world record crowd of 56,000 for a rugby union club match watched Llanelli RFC beat Neath RFC by 28 points to 13 points in the final of the Schweppes Cup (WRU Challenge Cup) on 7 May 1988. The first evening game to be played under floodlights was held on 4 September 1991 at 8.00 pm, between Wales and France. The last international match to be held at the National Stadium was between Wales and England on 15 March 1997, and the last ever match that was held at the National Stadium was on 26 April 1997 between Cardiff and Swansea, Cardiff won the SWALEC Cup (WRU Challenge Cup) by 33 points to 26 points.\n\nIn 1997, just thirteen years after the National Stadium had opened, it was considered too small and did not have the facilities required of the time and it was demolished and a new stadium, the Millennium Stadium, was built in its place (completed to a north-south alignment and opened in June 1999). This would become the fourth redevelopment of the Cardiff Arms Park site. Although the Millennium Stadium is on roughly two thirds of the National Stadium, Cardiff Arms Park site, it is currently no longer using the Arms Park name. The official website confuses the issue as well, one part states that \"The Millennium Stadium is located on Westgate Street in Cardiff; next to the Cardiff Arms Park\". whereas another section specifically refers to the stadium as \"The Millennium Stadium, on the Cardiff Arms Park\"\n\nAn agreement in principle was reached in December 2015 between the landlord of the stadium site (Cardiff Athletic Club) and its tenant (Cardiff Blues) to give the club a 150-year lease on the stadium site. This could see the redevelopment of the Arms Park, including a new 15,000 seater stadium at 90 degrees to the existing stadium costing between £20 million and £30 million and surrounded by new offices and apartments.\n\nMore detailed negotiations will begin with a final approval expected early in 2016. If the final agreement goes ahead, Cardiff Athletic Club would receive an upfront payment of approximately £8 million. As part of the agreement, the bowls section would have to vacate its current site at the Arms Park and move to a new facility. At present Cardiff Blues pay Cardiff Athletic Club rent of around £115,000 per annum, however this would nearly double to around £200,000.\n\nOnly the rugby ground and the Cardiff Athletic Bowls Club now use the name Cardiff Arms Park. The rugby ground has two main stands, the North Stand and the South Stand. Both the Stands have terracing below seating. The other stands in the ground are the Westgate Street end (currently known as the Coastal Cottages Family Stand), which has rows of seating below executive boxes, plus the club shop, and the River Taff end (the Barry Nelmes Suite, named after Barry Nelmes, the former Cardiff RFC captain), which has 26 executive boxes. The rugby ground has two main entrances, the south entrance, and the Gwyn Nicholls Memorial Gates (Angel Hotel entrance), which was unveiled on 26 December 1949 in honour of the Welsh international rugby player Gwyn Nicholls. The Cardiff Athletic Clubhouse is situated in the corner of the ground between the South Stand and the Westgate Street end.\n\nThe South Stand of the rugby ground formed a complete unit with the North Stand of the National Stadium. Now the same structure of the South Stand of the rugby ground is also physically attached to the North Stand of the Millennium Stadium. This section is known colloquially as Glanmor's Gap, after Glanmor Griffiths, former chair and President of the WRU. This came about because the WRU were unable to secure enough funding to include the North Stand in the Millennium Stadium, and the National Lottery Commission would not provide any additional funds to be used for the construction of a new ground for Cardiff RFC. The Millennium Stadium was therefore built with the old reinforced concrete structure of the National Stadium (North Stand) and the new steel Millennium Stadium structure built around it.\n\nThere was doubt about the future of the Arms Park after 2010 following the move of the Cardiff Blues to the Cardiff City Stadium. Cardiff RFC Ltd, the company that runs Cardiff Blues and Cardiff RFC, still has a 15-year lease on the Arms Park, but talks are underway to release the rugby club from the terms of the lease, to enable the Millennium Stadium to be redeveloped with a new North Stand and adjoining convention centre. However, it still has the original requirement on the lease, that the land will only be used for \"recreational purposes\", as stipulated by the Bute family. But the Arms Park site is a prime piece of real estate in the centre of Cardiff, which means that it may be difficult to sell the land to property developers. The estimated value of the whole Arms Park site could be at least £25 million, although with the \"recreational use\" requirement, its actual value could be a lot less than that figure. A decision by Cardiff Athletic Club on the future of the Arms Park has yet to be made. In 2011, the Cardiff Blues regional rugby union team made a £6 million bid for the Arms Park, later the WRU made an increased bid of £10 million for the site. Both bids were rejected by the trustees of the Cardiff Athletic Club. However, in 2012 Cardiff Blues announced that they would be making a permanent return to Cardiff Arms Park following declining attendances at the Cardiff City Stadium. In the 2013 off-season, the pitch at the Arms Park was replaced with an artificial FieldTurf surface, intended to prevent any adverse weather conditions from affecting the rugby.\n\nCardiff Arms Park is best known as a rugby union stadium, but Cardiff Athletic Bowls Club (CABC) was established in 1923, and ever since then, the club has used the Arms Park as its bowling green. The bowls club is a section of the Cardiff Athletic Club and shares many of the facilities of the Cardiff Arms Park athletics centre.\nThe Les Spence Memorial Gates were erected in memory of the former Cardiff RFU player, who captained the team in 1936-37. He was born in 1907 and became chairman of the Cardiff RFU and president of the WRU between 1973 and 1974. He was awarded an MBE and died in 1988.\n\nThe Club has produced two Welsh international bowlers; Mr. C Standfast in 1937 and Mr. B Hawkins who represented Wales in the 1982 World Pairs and captained Wales in 1982 and 1984.\n\nThe Riverside Football Club, founded in 1899, played some matches at the Arms Park until 1910, when they moved to Ninian Park, and later became Cardiff City Football Club.\n\nOn 31 May 1989, Wales played its first international game against West Germany at the National Stadium in a World Cup qualifying match, which ended goalless. It was also the first ever international football match held in Great Britain that was watched by all-seater spectators.\n\nThe adjoining Cardiff Rugby Club ground has also been used for Association Football. In July 1995, Ton Pentre played two Intertoto Cup games there, against Heerenveen (Netherlands) and Uniao Leiria (Portugal) as their own ground was not suitable. The Heerenveen game - the first ever soccer match to be played there - kicked off at 6pm on Saturday 1 July 1995 and resulted in the Dutch side winning 7-0. The Wales U-21 team have also played a home game there in the late 1990s.\n\nIn 1958, the British Empire and Commonwealth Games were held in Cardiff. The event was (to date) the biggest sporting event ever held in Wales; however, it would not have been possible without the financial support given by the WRU and the Cardiff Athletic Club. Both the opening and closing ceremonies took place at Cardiff Arms Park, plus all the track and field events, on what had been the greyhound track. It would turn out to be the last time that South Africa would participate in the Games until 1994. South Africa withdrew from the Commonwealth Games in 1961.\n\nBaseball was established early on in Cardiff, and one of the earliest of games to be held at the Arms Park was on 18 May 1918. It was a charity match in aid of the Prisoner of War Fund between Welsh and American teams of the U.S. Beaufort & U.S. Jupiter. British baseball matches have also regularly taken place at the Arms Park and hosted the annual England versus Wales international game every four years. The games are now usually held at Roath Park.\n\nThe first boxing contest held at the Arms Park was on 24 January 1914, when Bombadier Billy Wells beat Gaston Pigot by a knockout in the first round of a 20-round contest. Boxing contests were held later on 14 June 1943, 12 August 1944, 4 October 1951 and 10 September 1952.\n\nAround 25,000 spectators watched international boxing on 1 October 1993, at the National Stadium with a World Boxing Council (WBC) Heavyweight title bout between Lennox Lewis and Frank Bruno. It was the first time that two British-born boxers had fought for the world heavyweight title. Lewis beat Bruno by a technical knockout in the 7th round, in what was called the \"Battle of Britain\". On 30 September 1995, Steve Robinson the World Boxing Organization (WBO) World Featherweight Champion, lost against Prince Naseem Hamed at the rugby ground in 8 rounds.\n\nIn 1819 Cardiff Cricket Club was formed and by 1848 they had moved to their new home at the Arms Park. Glamorgan County Cricket Club, at the time not a first-class county, played their first match at the ground in June 1869 against Monmouthshire Cricket Club. The county club played their first County Championship match on the ground in 1921, competing there every season (except while first-class cricket was suspended during the Second World War) until their final match on the ground against Somerset in August 1966.\n\nCardiff Cricket Club played their final game at the ground against Lydney Cricket Club on 17 September 1966. Both Cardiff Cricket Club and Glamorgan then moved to a new ground at Sophia Gardens on the opposite bank of the River Taff to the Arms Park following work on the creation of the national rugby stadium. \n\nThe first first-class cricket match to be held on the ground was between West of England and East of England, on 20 June 1910. In all more than 240 first-class matches were played on the ground, all but two involving Glamorgan as the home team. Only one List A cricket match was played on the ground, Glamorgan's Gillette Cup fixture against Somerset on 22 May 1963.\n\nTo help pay for the upkeep of the site, a greyhound track was built in 1927. The first meeting was held on 7 April 1928. The Arms Park (Cardiff) Greyhound Racing Company Limited signed a 50-year lease in 1937, with Cardiff Athletic Clubthe owners of the Arms Parkhaving no rights to break the agreement or to review the rental until 50 years expired.\n\nThe circumference of the track was a large 452 yards with long straights of 160 yards. An 'outside Sumner' hare was used and race distances consisted of 300, 500, 525 and 700 yards. The kennel facilities were at nearby Cefn Mably in St Mellons and the leading event was the Glamorgan Cup held over 500 yards. In 1932 a notable greyhound called Beef Cutlet made his debut at the track at Arms Park. Beef Cutlet won the Glamorgan Cup and set a new track record, in 28.41sec. Cutlet’s Waterhall kennels based trainer John Hegarty would later become a Racing Manager at the track. A neighbouring track, the White City closed in 1939 and the Welsh Greyhound Derby was transferred to the Arms Park from White City, Cardiff in 1945. This was one of the three races that formed the triple crown along with the English Greyhound Derby and Scottish Greyhound Derby. The track continued to host the race annually.\n\nAfter the war the greyhound company introduced floodlights and in 1958 the entire surface required relaying after the Commonwealth Games had finished. In 1971 the Welsh Greyhound Derby was given 'classic' status. In 1977 the Cardiff City Council announced that a revamp of the Arms Park site would not include greyhound racing. The Welsh Rugby Union required the Arms Park track to extend terracing at the National Stadium. The last Welsh Greyhound Derby was on 9 July and the last meeting was held on 30 July. 1,128 greyhound fans saw Lillyput Queen, owned by Cardiff butcher Malcolm Davies and trained by Freddie Goodman, win the last race. Cardiff City Council had taken less than ten minutes to reject a plan to switch greyhound racing to nearby Maindy Stadium.\n\nIn 1876, the Cardiff RFC was formed and soon after they also used the park. On 12 April 1884, the first international match was played at the ground between Wales and Ireland, when 5,000 people watched Wales beat Ireland by two tries and a drop goal to nil.\n\nThe Arms Park rugby ground became the permanent home of the Wales national rugby union team in 1964. Later, the National Stadium was also home to the WRU Challenge Cup from 1972 until the match held at the Stadium on 26 April 1997, at a much reduced capacity, between Cardiff RFC and Swansea RFC. Cardiff RFC won the match 33–26.\n\nThe National Stadium is best known as the venue for what is considered to be \"the greatest try ever scored\" by Gareth Edwards for the Barbarians against New Zealand in what is also called \"the greatest match ever played\" on 27 January 1973. The final result was a win for the Barbarians. The score, 23–11, which translates to 27–13 in today's scoring system.\n\nThe scorers were:\n\nBarbarians: Tries: Gareth Edwards, Fergus Slattery, John Bevan, J P R Williams; Conversions: Phil Bennett (2); Penalty: Phil Bennett.\n\nAll Blacks: Tries: Grant Batty (2); Penalty: Joseph Karam.\n\nThe National Stadium hosted four games in the 1991 Rugby World Cup, including the third-place play-off. The National Stadium was also host to the inaugural Heineken Cup final of 1995–96 when Toulouse beat Cardiff RFC by 21–18 after extra time, in front of 21,800 spectators. The following final in 1996–97 was also held at the National Stadium, this time it was between Brive and Leicester Tigers. Brive won the match 28–9, in front of a crowd of 41,664.\n\nIn 2008, the rugby ground hosted all the games in Pool A of the 2008 IRB Junior World Championship and also the semi-final on 18 June 2008, in which England beat South Africa 26–18.\nUntil February 2012, it had been assumed that the last professional rugby union game to take place at the Arms Park was on 17 May 2009, when Edinburgh beat the Cardiff Blues 36–14 in a Celtic League match during the 2008–09 season.\n\nHowever, on Tuesday, 7 February 2012, it was confirmed that Cardiff Blues would face Connacht at the Arms Park on Friday, 10 February 2012. The Pro12 League game result was a win for the Cardiff Blues 22–15 and attendance of 8,000. The following Tuesday, it was announced that the match against Ulster on Friday, 17 February, would also be at the Arms Park, resulting in a Blues win, 21–14 and attendance of 8,600. The agreement signed during 2009 tied Cardiff Blues to a 20-year contract to play a maximum of 18 games per season for a set fee, rather than per match at Cardiff City Stadium. But on 23 February, it was announced that the two Welsh 'derbies' against the Scarlets and the Ospreys would be played at Cardiff City Stadium, rather than the Arms Park, because of Cardiff Blues' anticipation that the attendance figures would far exceed the maximum capacity of 9,000. On 8 May 2012, it was announced that Cardiff Blues would be returning to the Arms Park on a permanent basis after just three years at the Cardiff City Stadium.\n\nOn 23 May 2014, the rugby ground hosted the final of the 2013–14 Amlin Challenge Cup in which Northampton Saints beat Bath 30-16.\n\nCardiff Arms Park hosted matches of the 1991 Rugby World Cup.\n\nSouth Wales Scorpions played a Rugby League Championship 1 match against London Skolars at Cardiff Arms Park on Sunday, 27 July 2014 and on Sunday 10 May 2015 at Cardiff Arms Park, South Wales Scorpions took on North Wales Crusaders. The 2015 European Cup match between France and Wales was held at Cardiff Arms Park on Friday, 30 October 2015 at 18:30 GMT.\n\nThe highest attendance for a rugby league game at the Arms Park was recorded on 8 June 1996 during the first Super League season when 6,708 saw St. Helens defeat the Sheffield Eagles 43-32. The St Helens team at the time contained Welsh players Anthony Sullivan, Karle Hammond and Keiron Cunningham.\n\nList of rugby league test matches played at Cardiff Arms Park.\nTennis courts were laid out in the Arms Park for Cardiff Tennis Club until the club moved to Sophia Gardens in 1967. In 2003, the club amalgamated with Lisvane Tennis Club to form Lisvane (CAC) Tennis Club, which is still a section of Cardiff Athletic Club (CAC).\n\nMajor music concerts were also held at the National Stadium from 1987 until 1996, they included Tina Turner, U2, Michael Jackson, The Rolling Stones, Dire Straits, Bon Jovi and R.E.M. The last music concert was held on 14 July 1996. Jehovah's Witnesses held their annual conventions at the National Stadium.\n\nThe National Stadium was known primarily as the venue for massed voices singing such hymns as \"Cwm Rhondda\", \"Calon Lân\", \"Men of Harlech\" and \"Hen Wlad Fy Nhadau\" (\"Land of my Fathers\" – the national anthem of Wales). The legendary atmosphere including singing of the crowd was said to be worth at least a try or a goal to the home nation. This tradition of singing has now passed on to the Millennium Stadium.\n\nThe Arms Park has its own choir, called the Cardiff Arms Park Male Choir. It was formed in 1966 as the Cardiff Athletic Club Male Voice Choir, and today performs internationally with a schedule of concerts and tours. In 2000, the choir changed their name to become the Cardiff Arms Park Male Choir.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13022693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13022693", "title": "Celestino Marques Silva Ilnhasse", "text": "Celestino Marques Silva Ilnhasse\n\nCelestino Marques Silva Ilnhasse (born 20 May 1988) is a football midfielder from Guinea-Bissau who plays for Alcanenense.\n"}
{"id": "2680399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2680399", "title": "Clarkson Cup", "text": "Clarkson Cup\n\nThe Clarkson Cup () is an ice hockey trophy, which since 2009 has been awarded to the winner of the Canadian Women's Hockey Championship. Like the Stanley Cup, it was created by and named after a former Governor General of Canada: Adrienne Clarkson.\n\nThough initially awarded in 2006 to the Canadian national women's hockey team, it was intended to be awarded to the top women's club in Canada. From 2006 to 2008, it was not awarded, owing to a number of rights issues between Clarkson, Hockey Canada, and the artists responsible for making the trophy. Beginning in 2009, the Clarkson Cup has been awarded, as intended, to the top women's club team. It is viewed as the \"Stanley Cup of women's hockey\".\n\nWhen the 2004–05 NHL season was cancelled because of lockout, the Stanley Cup was not awarded for the first time since the 1918-19 Spanish flu pandemic. In February 2005, Clarkson proposed that, since the Stanley Cup was to be awarded to the best professional hockey team of the year (even though there were Canadian teams in the American Hockey League, which plays for the Calder Cup), it should be awarded to the best women's hockey team because they were still playing. That idea was brought to Susan Fennell, the Commissioner of the National Women's Hockey League (and also Mayor of Brampton). In a media interview, Fennell commented that while the women had great respect for the Stanley Cup, it belonged to men's hockey, and that the women actually did have a cup of their own, but simply one with no name. Fennell then came up with the idea that the Governor General should consider lending her name to the women's hockey championship cup, as Lord Stanley had done years before for the men's hockey championship. Clarkson was thrilled with the idea and later met with Fennell at Rideau Hall, where it was agreed that the women's hockey championship trophy would be named the Clarkson Cup.\n\nOriginally, the NWHL Championship Cup was to have a new name placed on it. However, On September 14, 2005, Clarkson announced the creation of a new trophy for women's hockey.\n\nThe Clarkson Cup is made of silver and was designed by Nunavut Arctic College in Iqaluit. Canadian silversmith Beth M. Biggs was commissioned to make the Clarkson Cup. She designed and built the sterling trophy and collaborated with three Inuit artists: Okpik Pitseolak, Therese Ukaliannuk, and Pootoogook Qiatsuk. The Inuit artists designed some of the decoration on the trophy. There are images of Sedna (one of the most powerful figures in Inuit tradition), Arctic animals, ancient masks, and the flowers of the provinces and territories of Canada. The actual cup portion of the trophy is not much bigger than a large coffee mug.\n\nThe trophy was awarded to the Canadian national women's hockey team on July 10, 2006, with the expectation that Hockey Canada would take over the trophy and how it was to be awarded. However, complications arising due to the rights to the trophy (Clarkson wanting full rights to the trophy from the artists in order to turn the trophy over to Hockey Canada, while the artists wanting Hockey Canada to instead license the Cup in order to collect royalties from its use) and the splintered top level of women's club hockey at the time resulted in the trophy not being awarded for three years.\n\nAt the time of the creation of the Clarkson Cup, there were two top professional women's hockey leagues in Canada: the National Women's Hockey League in Eastern Canada and the Western Women's Hockey League in Western Canada (with one team from Minnesota) — the latter being formed from two former NWHL teams (the Calgary Oval X-Treme and Edmonton Chimos) due to travel costs, with no interleague championships to determine a true national champion. Though the two leagues were expected to merge in 2007 (with the five-team WWHL being absorbed into the 11-team NWHL as a new \"western division\"), logistics differences (due to playoff scheduling) made the merger impossible — the WWHL playoffs were finished before the Esso Women's Nationals, while the NWHL playoffs had yet to begin (and would not conclude until after the Nationals and the world championships). The NWHL folded at the conclusion of the 2006–07 season, with the Canadian Women's Hockey League taking its place. Though the CWHL and WWHL agreed on a format that would determine a national champion (to be decided with each league sending its two best teams to the Esso Women's Nationals, with the intent that it would be split off as a separate tournament from the senior women's tournament in the future), the Clarkson Cup remained unavailable — the Abby Hoffman Cup would be awarded in its place until the Clarkson Cup became available.\n\nIn March 2009, Clarkson and the artists behind the Clarkson Cup settled their licensing dispute, allowing the trophy to be presented. The inaugural Canadian National Women's Hockey Championship was held later that month, at the K-Rock Centre in Kingston, Ontario, featuring an identical format to that used for the Esso Women's Nationals the previous year for club teams. The Montreal Stars, champions from the East, prevailed over the Minnesota Whitecaps in the finals of the championship, which also saw the Brampton Canadettes-Thunder and the Calgary Oval X-Treme participate. Clarkson was on hand to present the trophy to the Stars upon their victory. Like the first Stanley Cup champion of 1893, the first Clarkson Cup champions come from Montreal.\n\nOn August 6, 2010, the \"Clarkson Cup\" trademark application that Adrienne Clarkson filed on July 21, 2006, matured into a registered trademark.\n\nThe trophy consists of a Loving cup with the coat of arms of former Governor General Adrienne Clarkson.\n\nThe pedestal is engraved with hockey masks and base engraved with flowers of each province in Canada.\n\nThere are several bands attached that have the names and years of each winning team.\n\nThe championship game is not played in the home town of any of the CWHL teams, but at a neutral site.\n\nA bolded year denotes a Clarkson Cup win.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24867080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24867080", "title": "Club Stormers San Lorenzo", "text": "Club Stormers San Lorenzo\n\nStormers San Lorenzo is the oldest football club from Potosí that plays in the Potosí Primera A, one of the third division regional leagues. The club was founded on May 26, 1897 and plays its home games at the Estadio Victor Agustín Ugarte.\n"}
{"id": "15427598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15427598", "title": "Compression garment", "text": "Compression garment\n\nCompression garments are pieces of clothing that fit tightly around the skin. In medical contexts, compression garments provide support for people who have to stand for long periods or have poor circulation. These come in varying degrees of compression, and higher degree compression sleeves, such as sleeves that provide compression of 20–30 mmHg or higher, typically require a doctor's prescription. Compression garments worn on the legs can help prevent deep vein thrombosis and reduce swelling, especially while traveling.\n\nIn sports, form-fitting compression sportswear, usually made of spandex, is commonly worn by athletes and in exercise to prevent chafing and rashes.\n\nA bellyband, wrap, or abdominal binder is a compression garment which resembles a tubetop worn over the abdomen of expectant mothers. Belly wraps are also very commonly worn postpartum. Belly wraps are typically prescribed for abdominal support, making it easier for people with back pain to perform day to day tasks, as well as to help mothers with their posture and potential back problems post delivery.\n\nCompression stockings are specialized hosiery designed to help prevent the occurrence of and guard against further progression of various medical disorders.\n\n80 years ago, a pair of lady's stockings began the \"age of synthetics.\" The National Museum of American History holds the experimental stockings that were created in 1937 to test the viability of the first man-made fiber that was created entirely in a lab. Nylon was thought to have the strength of steel and the sheerness of cobwebs. These stockings became a very hot commodity when they were first released for public purchase. Their demand was so high that four million pairs sold in the first four days. Nylon's impact on fashion was immediate, but the invention sparked a revolution. Nylon's original name was fiber-66.\n\nStockings became so important to a woman's image that, during World War II, when stockings were not being sold because all nylon was diverted to military use, women began painting their legs with makeup, trying to create the image of nylon stockings.\n\nCompression sportswear is usually worn by athletes, including shirts, shorts, tights, sleeves, socks, or underwear. They are form-fitting garments often made from a spandex-type material.\n\nOne small study of compression shorts found no change in sprint time, but found some gait changes that might reduce injuries. Another study of calf sleeves found no change in sprint times and gait; larger reviews have found no evidence that compression garments can improve athletic performance beyond the placebo effect.\n\nThrough testing repeat-sprint and throwing performance in cricket players, one study found that there was a significant difference by way of higher mean skin temperature, lower 24-hour post exercise CK values and lower 24-hour post exercise ratings of muscle soreness when wearing compression garments. However, the study failed to find any significant difference in sprint performance, throwing performance, heart rate, or various blood tests.\n\nIn materials testing, the compressive garment provided increased flexion and extension, which could help reduce hamstring injuries. They also reduced impact by 27% compared to American football pants alone. Studies have shown that compressive garments can improve long term vertical jump height.\n\nDepending on the material used, compression garments can be designed to keep athletes cool or warm depending on the requirements of the sport. This is why you will see both athletes in the winter and summer olympics wearing similar looking compression outfits. For example, speedskaters can wear compression bodysuits in the cold rink, while beach volleyball players can wear a similar-looking piece made out of a more breathable, lightweight blend. Both athletes will use moisture wicking materials such as nylon and spandex to keep them lightweight, while cotton would retain moisture and weigh them down in action. In addition, speed skaters take advantage of the aerodynamic advantage they can get from wearing a skintight suit, while a beach volleyball player has the added benefit of SPF 50+ garments to keep them protected on a sunny day. The athletes pictured show the diverse range of benefits that make compression garments so popular in a wide range of sports and designs.\n\nOther purported benefits of compression sportswear are:\n\nCompression shorts and tights are undergarments usually worn by athletes. They are form-fitting garments and when worn, cover the athlete's waist to mid or lower thigh, similar to cycling shorts.\n\nMore recently, jockstraps have declined in popularity with young male athletes, and garments such as compression shorts have seen an increase in popularity, arguably because of their comparable function and less embarrassing looks. Many are available with a cup pocket, a sewn-in pocket that can hold a protective cup. It is arguable that compression shorts do not keep cups in the proper position, tight to the body and not moving, as a jockstrap can. Some players wear the compression shorts over the traditional jockstrap.\n\nCompression shorts are also popular among female athletes, especially among those who wear skirts or kilts during games. In those situations, athletes wear compression shorts under the skirt so if they fall over and their skirts ride up, their underwear will not be exposed. This is seen particularly in women's lacrosse and field hockey (both being limited contact sports in which players often wear skirts). In this situation, compression shorts are colloquially identified as spandex shorts. Women also wear compression shorts in tennis, where, most recently, compression shorts have been produced with ball pockets for convenience.\n\nCompression garments have been shown to help athletes during the active recovery process. Research shows that following a high intensity treadmill workout, compression garments helped to decrease the heart rate and lactic acid buildup in athletes. According to a study by Duffield R. and M. Portis, although there were few observed changes during their event, cricket players wearing compression garments showed fewer blood markers of muscle damage and reported less soreness during the 24-hour post-workout period. Other studies have supported the idea that compression garments are effective in reducing post-workout declines in jump height, minimizing strength loss, decreasing swelling, and easing muscle soreness after competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "46543522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46543522", "title": "Constant Lestienne", "text": "Constant Lestienne\n\nConstant Lestienne (; born 23 May 1992) is a French professional tennis player. He competes mainly in the ITF Men's Circuit and ATP Challenger Tour.\nHe has won two ATP Challenger Tour singles titles. In addition, he has won five singles titles and three doubles titles in the ITF Men's Circuit.\n\nLestienne reached his first career ATP World Tour singles main draw (where he lost in the first round to Pablo Carreño Busta) at the 2015 Estoril Open after winning two singles qualifying matches.\n\nIn September 2016 Lestienne was suspended for seven months and fined $10,000 by the International Tennis Federation for betting on tennis matches. The Tennis Integrity Unit (TIU) in cooperation with French online gambling regulator ARJEL found that Lestienne had bet on 220 tennis matches between February 2012 and June 2015. None of these matches were his own. Half of the ban is suspended and his fine will be halved if he cooperates with the TIU.\n\n"}
{"id": "15238920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15238920", "title": "Coolray Field", "text": "Coolray Field\n\nCoolray Field (formerly known as Gwinnett Stadium) is a 10,427-seat minor league baseball park in unincorporated Gwinnett County, Georgia (with a mailing address in Lawrenceville). It is the home field of the Gwinnett Stripers, the Triple-A affiliate of the Atlanta Braves, and Atlanta United 2, the United Soccer League affiliate of Atlanta United FC.\n\nCoolray Field hosted its first regular season baseball game on April 17, 2009, a 7–4 Gwinnett Braves loss to the Norfolk Tides. The stadium site is located approximately two miles (3 km) east of the Mall of Georgia along Georgia 20, between Interstate 85 and Georgia 316.\n\nThe site was previously farmland and forest. An additional of mostly forest around it became a mixed-use project, after a February 2009 rezoning by the Gwinnett County Commission. Naming rights are held by Coolray, an air conditioning and plumbing company based in nearby Marietta.\n\nThe stadium construction and maintenance is being paid by the taxpayer-funded Gwinnett County government, but the Stripers will keep most of the revenue from ticket and concession stand sales. The municipal bonds used to pay for the stadium run for 30 years (until 2038), but the Stripers have an option to back out of the contract after only half of that time (in 2023), if the county does not maintain the facility at an acceptable level. This would leave county taxpayers responsible for the remainder.\n\nAfter the first season, it was revealed that parking revenue was a fraction (about 15%) of what was expected.\n\nThe Gwinnett Braves (renamed to the Stripers in 2017) moved to the stadium in 2009 when the Atlanta Braves moved their affiliate, the Richmond Braves, after 43 seasons (1966–2008) in Richmond, Virginia. They are located 35 miles northeast of their parent club's stadium, SunTrust Park in unincorporated Cobb County—the second-shortest distance between a Triple-A team and its major league parent (behind only the Pacific Coast League's Tacoma Rainiers, based 26 miles south of Seattle). They have held this distinction since moving to Gwinnett County; the Braves played at Turner Field in Atlanta at the time.\n\nCoolray Field features 19 luxury suites, a 30-foot-by-40-foot video board in right-center field, a 6-foot-by-42-foot LED board along the left-field wall and chairback seating complete with cupholders.\n\n"}
{"id": "54634282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54634282", "title": "Dren Feka", "text": "Dren Feka\n\nDren Feka (born 9 June 1997) is a Kosovo Albanian professional footballer who plays as a defensive midfielder for Swiss club Luzern.\n\nOn 24 June 2017. Feka signed to Swiss Super League side Luzern. On 23 July 2017, he made his debut in a 1–0 home win against Lugano after being named in the starting line-up.\n\nOn 14 February 2013. Feka received a call-up from Albania U17 for the friendly matches against Slovenia U17 and Kosovo U17. On 20 February 2013, he making his debut with Albania U17 in match against Slovenia U17 after being named in the starting line-up.\n\nOn 6 November 2017. Feka received a call-up from Kosovo U21 for a 2019 UEFA European Under-21 Championship qualification matches against Israel U21 and Azerbaijan U21, On 9 November 2017, he made his debut with Kosovo U21 in match against Israel U21 after being named in the starting line-up.\n\nOn 23 May 2018. Feka received a call-up from Kosovo for a friendly match against Albania, he was an unused bench in that match.\n"}
{"id": "36690285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36690285", "title": "Elson Hooi", "text": "Elson Hooi\n\nElson Quincy Hooi (born 1 October 1991) is a Curaçaoan footballer who plays as a right winger for Eredivisie-side ADO Den Haag. He formerly played for NAC Breda, Viborg FF, FC Volendam, Ermis Aradippou, and Vendsyssel FF.\n\nHe was raised in the Netherlands, but was born in Curaçao and represents the Curaçao national team. He won the 2017 Caribbean Cup with the Curaçao national team, and was also the top scorer of that competition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3115534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3115534", "title": "Eritrea at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "Eritrea at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nEritrea competed in the Olympic Games for the first time at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "19061274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19061274", "title": "Estadio Los Cuchumatanes", "text": "Estadio Los Cuchumatanes\n\nEstadio Los Cuchumatanes is a football stadium located in Huehuetenango, Guatemala. It is home to football club Deportivo Xinabajul. Its capacity is around 5,340. The stadium opened its doors on January 17, 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "44823199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44823199", "title": "Gediz Üniversitesi S.K.", "text": "Gediz Üniversitesi S.K.\n\nGediz Üniversitesi Gençlik ve Spor Kulübü, known as Orkide Gediz Üniversitesi for sponsorship reasons, is a Turkish professional basketball club based in İzmir which plays Turkish Basketball League (TBL). The team was founded by Gediz University in 2010. Their home arena is Gediz Üniversitesi Sports Hall with a capacity of 250 seats. The team sponsored by Orkide which is an liquid oil company in Turkey.\n\n"}
{"id": "22585802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22585802", "title": "Grand Prix Elsy Jacobs", "text": "Grand Prix Elsy Jacobs\n\nThe Festival Luxembourgeois du cyclisme féminin Elsy Jacobs formerly known as the Grand Prix Elsy Jacobs is an international women's road bicycle race held in Garnich, Luxembourg. Since 2008 this event is on the UCI women's elite cycle racing calendar. Between 2009 and 2011 it was rated as an UCI 1.1 category race and since 2012 the race is a 2.1 category stage race.\n\nThe race is named after Elsy Jacobs the first winner of the UCI Road World Championships - Women's Road Race, which took place at Reims, France in 1958 and Hour record holder from 1958 to 1972.\n"}
{"id": "7623682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7623682", "title": "Greece at the 1998 Winter Olympics", "text": "Greece at the 1998 Winter Olympics\n\nGreece competed at the 1998 Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3178754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3178754", "title": "HC Slavia Praha", "text": "HC Slavia Praha\n\nHC Slavia Praha (eng: HC Slavia Prague) is a Czech ice hockey team located in Prague playing the Czech 1st National Hockey League, the second-highest league in the country. Slavia played in the Extraliga from 1994 until 2015, winning the national championship in 2003 and 2008. The club plays its home games at Zimní stadion Eden in Prague. From 2004 until 2015, it played at O2 Arena. \n\nThe team played in the 2008–09 season of the Champions Hockey League.\n\nThe team was relegated to the 1. Liga in the 2014–15 Czech Extraliga season.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16070015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16070015", "title": "Honda Sports Award", "text": "Honda Sports Award\n\nThe Honda Sports Award is an annual award in the United States, given to the best collegiate female athlete in each of twelve sports. There are four nominees for each sport, and the twelve winners of the Honda Award are automatically in the running for the Honda-Broderick Cup award, as the Collegiate Woman Athlete of the Year. Three other athletes are honored as the Division II Athlete of the Year, Division III Athlete of the Year, and Inspiration Award winner.\n\nWinners are selected in each of the 12 NCAA-sanctioned sports by a panel of more than 1,000 NCAA administrators. Three other athletes are honored as the Division II Athlete of the Year, Division III Athlete of the Year, and Inspiration Award winner. Each woman is selected not only for her superior athletic skills, but also for her leadership abilities, academic excellence and eagerness to participate in community service.\n\nAt the end of the year, one deserving athlete will be chosen as the Collegiate Woman Athlete of the Year and receive the coveted Honda-Broderick Cup. Past winners of this prestigious award include Jackie Joyner and Mia Hamm.\n\nHonda has donated more than $2 million in grants and scholarships to the universities over the course of the program.\n\nSource:\nSource:\nSource:\nSource:\nSource:\nSource:\nSource:\n\n"}
{"id": "7437037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7437037", "title": "Hungary at the 1976 Winter Olympics", "text": "Hungary at the 1976 Winter Olympics\n\nHungary competed at the 1976 Winter Olympics in Innsbruck, Austria.\n\n"}
{"id": "9789223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9789223", "title": "Kuan Tai", "text": "Kuan Tai\n\nKuan Tai (Traditional Chinese: 關帝文化) is a Macau football club, which plays in Macao. The team have been withdrwan from the Macau's first division, the Campeonato da 1ª Divisão do Futebol in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "49478826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49478826", "title": "Lampang Province Stadium", "text": "Lampang Province Stadium\n\nLampang Province Stadium or Nong Kra Ting Stadium () (known as Nong Krating Stadium) is a multi-purpose stadium in Lampang Province, Thailand. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of Lampang Football Club. The stadium holds 5,500 people.\n"}
{"id": "15196749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15196749", "title": "Lithuania National Stadium", "text": "Lithuania National Stadium\n\nLithuania National Stadium is a new multi-use stadium in Vilnius, Lithuania, that is under construction since 1987. It will be used mostly for football matches and will host the home matches of the Lithuania national football team. The stadium will have a capacity of 25,000 people. It would replace the use of S. Darius and S. Girėnas Stadium, Žalgiris Stadium, and LFF Stadium. The construction was temporarily abandoned since March 2010. The minister of interior, Dailis Alfonsas Barakauskas, has said that it was expected to be finished by 2016 to a cost around LTL 260 million.\n\nStadium construction was revitalized in early 2016. It was planned to be completed between 2019 and 2020 at the cost of about EUR 80–100 million. However, the construction was not continued and a new competition for the building of the stadium was announced in September 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "647879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=647879", "title": "Maximum break", "text": "Maximum break\n\nIn snooker, under normal circumstances, the maximum break is 147, also known as a maximum, a 147, or orally, a one-four-seven. This score is attained by potting all 15 with 15 for 120 points, followed by all six for a further 27 points, all in a single i.e. without any misses.\n\nJoe Davis made the first officially recognised maximum break in a 1955 exhibition match in London. In 1982, Steve Davis achieved the first recognised maximum in professional competition, which was also the first maximum to occur during a televised match. The following year, Cliff Thorburn became the first player to make a maximum in a World Championship.\n\nMaximum breaks have always been rare in snooker. It took until 2013 for 100 maximums to be scored in professional competition. However they have gradually become more frequent in the game. Only eight maximums were achieved in the 1980s, but 26 were attained in the 1990s and 35 in the 2000s. So far in the 2010s, over 70 maximums have been achieved.\n\nThe record for the most maximum breaks in professional competition is held by Ronnie O'Sullivan with 15. He also holds the record for the fastest competitive maximum break, at just over five minutes, which he achieved at the 1997 World Championship. \n\nBreaks greater than 147 are possible if there is a before any of the reds have been potted, though this situation is itself extremely unusual. Only one break of over 147 has occurred in professional competition, when Jamie Burnett made a break of 148 in the qualifying stages of the 2004 UK Championship.\n\nJoe Davis compiled the first officially recognised maximum break on 22 January 1955, in a match against Willie Smith at Leicester Square Hall, London. The Billiards Association and Control Council initially refused to accept the break since the match was not played under their rules. At the time the professionals played using a rule (now standard) whereby after a foul a player could compel the offender to play the next stroke. It was only at a meeting on 20 March 1957 that they recognised the break. Davis was presented with a certificate to commemorate his achievement. The match between Davis and Smith was played as part of a series of events marking the closure of Leicester Square Hall. The hall, known as Thurston's Hall until 1947, had hosted many important billiards and snooker matches since its opening in 1901, including 12 World Snooker Championship finals. \n\nJohn Spencer made the first tournament maximum break in the 1979 Holsten Lager International, but this did not count as an official maximum as the break was made on a non-templated table used during the event. The first official maximum break in professional competition was by Steve Davis in the 1982 Classic at the Queen Elizabeth Hall in Oldham, against John Spencer winning a car for the achievement. This was also the first televised maximum. The following year, Cliff Thorburn became the first player to make a maximum at the World Championship, in the fourth frame of his second round match against Terry Griffiths.\n\nBefore the 1994–95 season, the maximum break remained a rare feat, with only 15 compiled official maximums. But starting with 1994–95, a maximum break has been achieved every season thereafter; the 13 maximums scored in the 2016–17 season is the highest number to date. The one-hundreth officially recognised maximum break in professional competition was made on 7 December 2013 by Mark Selby in the 7th frame of his semi-final match at the UK Championship against Ricky Walden. Since then, another 39 maximum breaks have been officially recorded in professional competition. Englishman Ronnie O'Sullivan has compiled fifteen ratified competitive maximum breaks, the most by any professional player. Following him are Stephen Hendry with eleven, John Higgins with eight, and Ding Junhui with six. O'Sullivan also holds the record for the fastest competitive maximum break at just over 5 minutes, which he set at the 1997 World Championship.\n\nAt least seven players have missed the final black on 140: Robin Hull, Ken Doherty, Barry Pinches, Mark Selby, Michael White, Thepchaiya Un-Nooh (twice in the 2015–16 season), and Liang Wenbo (in 2018).\n\nBreaks above 147 are possible when an opponent fouls and leaves a with all fifteen reds still remaining on the table. A break greater than 147 has happened only once in professional competition, when Jamie Burnett made a 148-point break at the qualifying stage of the 2004 UK Championship. Jamie Cope compiled a break of 155 points, the highest possible free-ball break, during practice in 2005. Alex Higgins was said to have attained the same feat.\n\nTournament games are won when one of the players manages to win more than half of the scheduled frames. For example, if a match is scheduled to have a maximum of 7 frames, a player wins the game when winning a 4th frame, regardless of how many frames the other player has. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn professional tournaments there was usually a substantial prize awarded to any player achieving a 147 break. For example, Ronnie O'Sullivan's maximum at the 1997 World Championship earned him £165,000. Of this, £147,000 was for making the 147 break and £18,000 was for achieving the highest break of the tournament. This was however abolished in the 2010/2011 season.\n\nIn the 2011/2012 season World Snooker introduced a roll-over system for the maximum break prize money, the \"rolling 147 prize\". A maximum break is worth £5,000 in the televised stages and £500 in qualifying stages of major ranking events. There is a £500 prize in the Players Tour Championship events from the last 128 onwards. If a maximum is not made then the prize rolls over to the next event until somebody wins it.\n\nAt the 2016 Welsh Open, Ronnie O'Sullivan defeated Barry Pinches 4–1 in the first round. In the fifth frame of the match, O'Sullivan declined the opportunity to make a maximum break, potting the pink off the penultimate red and completing a break of 146. He stated afterward that the prize money of £10,000 was not worthy of a 147. World Snooker chairman Barry Hearn called the decision \"unacceptable\" and \"disrespectful\".\n\nA break higher than 147 can be achieved when an opponent before any reds are potted, and leaves the incoming player (blocked) on all 15 reds. The player can nominate one of the other as a red, known as a \"\", which carries the same value as a red for just that shot. If the free ball is potted, the referee places back this colored ball on its original location, \"de facto\" creating a setup as if there were 16 reds in total, thus creating a potential maximum break of 155 if a player starts from a free ball position. \n\nIn October 2004, during qualifying for the UK Championship, Jamie Burnett became the only player to record a break of more than 147 in tournament play, when he scored 148 against Leo Fernandez. He took the brown as the free ball, then potted the brown again followed by the 15 reds with 12 blacks, two pinks and a blue, then the six colours.\n\nOn a few occasions, breaks exceeding 147 have been reported in non-tournament settings:\n\n"}
{"id": "39379277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39379277", "title": "Meridian Field", "text": "Meridian Field\n\nMeridian Field is a multi-use rugby stadium in Village of Grace, Providenciales, Turks and Caicos Islands. It is currently used for rugby union.\n\n"}
{"id": "8040602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8040602", "title": "Muscat Club", "text": "Muscat Club\n\nMuscat Club (; also known locally as \"Faris Al-A'asima\", or \"Knight of the Capital\", or just plainly as Muscat) is an Omani sports club based in Muscat, Oman. The club is currently playing in the First Division League of Oman Football Association. Their home ground is Sultan Qaboos Sports Complex, but they also recognize the older Royal Oman Police Stadium as their home ground. Both stadiums are government owned, but Muscat Club also own their own personal stadium and sports equipments, as well as their own training facilities.\n\nAlthough being mainly known for their football, Muscat Club like many other clubs in Oman, have not only football in their list, but also hockey, volleyball, handball, basketball, badminton and squash. They also have a youth football team competing in the Omani Youth league.\n\nLike the Oman national football team, Muscat Club have also long-chosen red or white (with black shorts) (Away) as the colors to represent them, varying themselves from neighbors Bowsher Club (Blue) and Oman Club (Red) kits. They have also had many different sponsors over the years.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47156947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47156947", "title": "New ASU Stadium", "text": "New ASU Stadium\n\nThe New ASU Stadium on the campus of Alabama State University in Montgomery, Alabama is a 26,500-seat stadium that replaces the Cramton Bowl as the host venue for the Alabama State Hornets football team. The first game in the New ASU Stadium was the 89th Turkey Day Classic on November 22, 2012 in which the Hornets hosted the Tuskegee Golden Tigers. The game was a sell-out and was televised nationally on ESPNU. The Hornets lost the first ever game in their new stadium 27-25 due to a late two-point conversion by Tuskegee.\n\nThe stadium's current capacity sits at 26,500 but the project was designed to allow for future expansion that can expand the capacity to 55,000.\n\nThe stadium also holds a restaurant and retail space which welcome visitors to the stadium and area 365 days a year. The stadium itself will be used year-round with other events such as concerts, band competitions, as well as soccer matches and other sporting events by partnering with the Central Alabama Sports Commission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4120095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4120095", "title": "Nigeria at the 1952 Summer Olympics", "text": "Nigeria at the 1952 Summer Olympics\n\nNigeria competed in the Summer Olympic Games for the first time at the 1952 Summer Olympics in Helsinki, Finland.\n\nMen's 100M\n\n\nMen's 200M\n\n\n\nMen's 4x100 relay\n\nLong Jump\n\nHigh Jump\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7125679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7125679", "title": "Prince Abdul Aziz bin Musa'ed Stadium", "text": "Prince Abdul Aziz bin Musa'ed Stadium\n\nPrince Abdul Aziz bin Musa'ed Stadium is a multi-purpose stadium in Ha'il, Saudi Arabia. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of Al-Ta'ee. The stadium has a capacity of 12,250 people.\n"}
{"id": "22720216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22720216", "title": "Qatar national rugby sevens team", "text": "Qatar national rugby sevens team\n\nThe Qatar national rugby sevens team is a minor national sevens side.\n\nGroup C matches -\n\nDecember 10\n"}
{"id": "28772935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28772935", "title": "Qods League (provinces)", "text": "Qods League (provinces)\n\nQods League (provinces) was a nine team football competition that existed in Iran for four years from 1985 to 1988. In 1989, the league became a competition between clubs rather than provinces. \n\nThe 9 teams were:\n\nThis tournament was won by Tehran A.\n\nThis tournament was won by Esfehan.\n\nThis tournament was won by Esfehan.\n\nThis tournament was won by Tehran A.\n\n"}
{"id": "57293482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57293482", "title": "Rannick Schoop", "text": "Rannick Schoop\n\nRannick Schoop (born 25 September 1996) is a Curaçoan professional footballer who last played as a right back for Dutch club De Graafschap.\n\n"}
{"id": "15436446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15436446", "title": "Red Berets F.C.", "text": "Red Berets F.C.\n\nRed Berets Football Club was a football club based in Nakuru, Kenya. It was based in Nairobi until 2007.\n\nIts home ground was the Afraha Stadium, but due to its unavailability in 2008, the club played its home games at the Greensteds School Grounds.\n\nThe club was founded in 1980 and owned by the Kenya Police. In 2000 it won promotion from the Nationwide League to the Premier League, where it stayed until they were relegated at the end of the 2010 season, after which it was disbanded as it was under immense pressure from its sponsors to produce good performances, contrary to the season they had.\n"}
{"id": "9835550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9835550", "title": "Rizal Memorial Coliseum", "text": "Rizal Memorial Coliseum\n\nThe Rizal Memorial Coliseum is one of two indoor sporting arenas located inside the Rizal Memorial Sports Complex in Manila, Philippines, the other being the Ninoy Aquino Stadium. The capacity of the coliseum is 8,000.\n\nThe Art Deco building within the Rizal Memorial Sports Complex was designed by Juan Arellano and was built in 1934 by the engineering firm of Pedro Siochi & Co., Inc.\n\nThe Philippine Sports Commission (PSC) unveiled plans for the conversion of the Rizal Memorial Coliseum into a Philippine Sports Museum and the Asian Games Museum which houses the memorabililia of Philippine and Asian sports icons and hall of famers. The current location of the PSM is located at the 2nd floor of the PSC building inside the Rizal Memorial Sports Complex. There was a plan to demolish the site before the PSC's announcement.\n\nOn November 22, 2016, Manila Mayor Joseph Estrada announced that the city government is making a partnership with businessman Ricky Razon to convert the facility into a commercial center which will include a mall and cinemas. The plan was criticized by the Heritage Conservation Society questioning if Manila needs another shopping mall. The National Commission for Culture and the Arts also stated that the city government of Estrada never consulted the agency regarding their plans on the sports venue in particular despite promising to cooperate with the government body on cultural conservation in a meeting initiated by the Manila government on May 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "50408736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50408736", "title": "Rut Castillo", "text": "Rut Castillo\n\nRut Castillo Galindo (born 16 September 1990) is a Mexican individual rhythmic gymnast. She represents her nation at international competitions. She competed at world championships, including at the 2009, 2011 and 2015 World Rhythmic Gymnastics Championships.\n\nSince February 2016, Rut Castillo is the image of the Process Improvement departament in Beecker Consulting.\n"}
{"id": "6273572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6273572", "title": "Sani Abacha Stadium", "text": "Sani Abacha Stadium\n\nThe Sani Abacha Stadium is a multi-purpose stadium in Kano, Kano State, Nigeria. It is currently used mostly for football matches and also sometimes for athletics. The stadium is the home of Kano Pillars F.C.. The stadium has a capacity of 16,000. It is named after deceased former military dictator Sani Abacha. It hosted several international competitions including the 2000 African Cup of Nations and the 2009 FIFA U-17 World Cup. In the 2016-17 season, the Kano Pillars drew an average home attendance for national league games of 10,000, the highest in the Nigerian league.\n\n"}
{"id": "45532955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45532955", "title": "Shoulder programming", "text": "Shoulder programming\n\nShoulder programming is a type of pre-event and post-event broadcast programming as a companion to live sporting events. This type of programming may be multi-platform and include both television and radio programs. Due to exclusive content or access, it may be included in a broadcast rights package for a particular sport or event. The purpose is to expand revenue opportunities through radio or television advertising or increased exposure to a pay-per-view event.\n\nNFL Primetime, Monday Night Countdown, and \"SportsCenter Monday Kickoff\" have each been companion National Football League (NFL) programming for Monday Night Football on ESPN. Monday Night Football was highly rated on ABC from 1970 to 2005, but since ESPN took over in 2006, it could more directly surround the franchise with programming in the time-slots before and after the game.\n\nThe first Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) event on UFC on Fox was UFC 121: Lesnar vs. Velasquez a title card between Junior dos Santos and Cain Velasquez in 2011. Networks such as Fox Deportes, \"Fuel TV\" (since re-branded Fox Sports 2 and Fox Sports Radio broadcast many hours of programming leading up to and during the fight. Programming included specials by both Fox Deportes and Fuel TV. Replays of the previously-held Velasquez vs Lesnar fight and the weigh-in were aired by Fox Deportes and Fuel TV, respectively. Live radio coverage of the fight was broadcast by Fox Sports Radio. Other programming included a UFC primetime special and the pre-fight and post-fight shows by Fuel TV.\n\nESPN has been criticized for devoting more or less air-time to a sport depending on whether it has rights to the primary organization or league of that sport. Examples include less air-time for National Hockey League (NHL), including the cancellation of NHL 2Night following their expiration of ESPN's rights contract and expanding air-time for NASCAR and the Arena Football League following rights deals.\n"}
{"id": "7696495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7696495", "title": "Spain at the 1988 Winter Olympics", "text": "Spain at the 1988 Winter Olympics\n\nSpain competed at the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary, Alberta, Canada.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34985849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34985849", "title": "Strela-Agro Kazan", "text": "Strela-Agro Kazan\n\nStrela-Agro (, formerly Agrouniversitet Kazan) is a rugby union club based in Kazan, Russia.\n\nThey won the Russian second division in 2011.\nThey participate in the Russia Super League in 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35532378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35532378", "title": "Thika United F.C.", "text": "Thika United F.C.\n\nThika United Football Club is an association football club based in Thika, Kenya, which currently competes in the Kenya Super League, the second tier of the Kenyan football league system. They play their home games at the Thika Sub-County Stadium.\n\nThe club was formed in 2000 as \"Beirut FC\". The following year, after being promoted to the Nationwide League (second level), it adopted new name, \"Medisca Thika\", after its then sponsors. The current name (Thika United FC) has been in use since 2003, which was also its first year in the top flight under the sponsorship of Brookside Dairies. Midfielder Matthew Dickinson hit the headlines of local and some national newspapers when he left local team Brislington Badgers in Bristol, England, to travel to Kenya to gain nationality and happened to earn himself a lengthy contract with Thika United.\n\nThika United made their top flight debut in 2002 and finished third in 2006 and 2009.\n\nThika United regained promotion to the Kenya Premier League after beating Ushuru F.C. 2-1 on aggregate in the 2017 Kenya Super League promotion playoffs.\n\nThey were relegated back to the Kenya Nationwide League after one season, finishing bottom of the Kenyan Premier League in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "11283875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11283875", "title": "Turkey Fed Cup team", "text": "Turkey Fed Cup team\n\nThe Turkey Fed Cup team represents Turkey in Fed Cup tennis competition and are governed by the Türkiye Tenis Federasyonu. They currently compete in the Europe/Africa Zone of Group III.\n\nTurkey competed in its first Fed Cup in 1991. Their best result was reaching the final qualifying round in 1993.\n\n\n"}
