{"id": "57454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57454", "title": "Aaron Burr", "text": "Aaron Burr\n\nAaron Burr Jr. (February 6, 1756 – September 14, 1836) was an American politician. He was the third Vice President of the United States (1801–1805), serving during Thomas Jefferson's first term.\n\nBurr served as a Continental Army officer in the American Revolutionary War, after which he became a successful lawyer and politician. He was elected twice to the New York State Assembly (1784–1785, 1798–1799), was appointed New York State Attorney General (1789–1791), was chosen as a U.S. senator (1791–1797) from the State of New York, and reached the apex of his career as vice president. In the waning months of his tenure as president of the Senate, he oversaw the 1805 impeachment trial of Supreme Court Justice Samuel Chase.\n\nBurr shot his political rival Alexander Hamilton in a famous duel in 1804, the last full year of his single term as vice president. He was never tried for the illegal duel and all charges against him were eventually dropped, but Hamilton's death ended Burr's political career.\n\nBurr left Washington, D.C., and traveled west seeking new opportunities, both economic and political. His activities eventually led to his arrest on charges of treason in 1807. The subsequent trial resulted in acquittal, but Burr's western schemes left him with large debts and few influential friends. In a final quest for grand opportunities, he left the United States for Europe. He remained overseas until 1812, when he returned to the United States to practice law in New York City, where he spent the rest of his life in relative obscurity.\n\nAaron Burr Jr. was born in Newark, New Jersey, in 1756 as the second child of the Reverend Aaron Burr Sr., a Presbyterian minister and second president of the College of New Jersey, which became Princeton University. His mother Esther Edwards Burr was the daughter of noted theologian Jonathan Edwards and his wife Sarah. Burr had an older sister Sarah (\"Sally\") who was named for her maternal grandmother. She married Tapping Reeve, founder of the Litchfield Law School in Litchfield, Connecticut.\n\nBurr's father died in 1757, and his mother died the following year, leaving him and his sister orphans when he was two years old. He and his sister first lived with their maternal grandparents, but his grandmother also died in 1757, and his grandfather Jonathan Edwards died in 1758. Young Aaron and Sally were placed with the William Shippen family in Philadelphia. In 1759, the children's guardianship was assumed by their 21-year-old maternal uncle Timothy Edwards. The next year, Edwards married Rhoda Ogden and moved with the children to Elizabeth, New Jersey near her family.\n\nBurr was admitted to Princeton as a sophomore at age 13 where he joined the American Whig Society and the Cliosophic Society, the college's literary and debating societies. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree in 1772 at age 16 but continued studying theology at Princeton for an additional year. He then undertook rigorous theological training with Joseph Bellamy, a Presbyterian, but changed his career path after two years. At age 19, he moved to Connecticut to study law with his brother-in-law Tapping Reeve, who had married Burr's sister in 1771. News reached Litchfield in 1775 of the clashes with British troops at Lexington and Concord, and Burr put his studies on hold to enlist in the Continental Army.\n\nDuring the American Revolutionary War, Burr took part in Colonel Benedict Arnold's expedition to Quebec, an arduous trek of more than through the frontier of Maine. Arnold was deeply impressed by Burr's \"great spirit and resolution\" during the long march, and he sent Burr up the Saint Lawrence River when they reached Quebec City to contact General Richard Montgomery, who had taken Montreal, and escort him to Quebec. Montgomery then promoted Burr to captain and made him an aide-de-camp. Burr distinguished himself during the Battle of Quebec (1775) where he attempted to recover Montgomery's corpse after the General had been shot.\n\nIn the spring of 1776, Burr's stepbrother Matthias Ogden helped him to secure a place on George Washington's staff in Manhattan, but he quit within two weeks on June 26 to be on the battlefield; there was more honor to be gained in battle than in the \"insular world of the commander's staff,\" according to historian Nancy Isenberg. General Israel Putnam took Burr under his wing, and Burr saved an entire brigade from capture after the British landing on Manhattan by his vigilance in the retreat from lower Manhattan to Harlem. Washington failed to commend his actions in the next day's General Orders, however, which was the fastest way to obtain a promotion. Burr was already a nationally known hero, but he never received a commendation. According to Ogden, he was infuriated by the incident, which may have led to the eventual estrangement between him and Washington. Nevertheless, Burr defended Washington's decision to evacuate New York as \"a \"necessary consequence.\"\" It was not until the 1790s that the two men found themselves on opposite sides in politics.\n\nBurr was promoted to lieutenant colonel in July 1777 and assumed virtual leadership of Malcolm's Additional Continental Regiment. There were approximately 300 men under Colonel William Malcolm's nominal command, but Malcolm was frequently called upon to perform other duties, leaving Burr in charge. The regiment successfully fought off many nighttime raids into central New Jersey by Manhattan-based British troops who arrived by water. Later that year, Burr commanded a small contingent during the harsh winter encampment at Valley Forge, guarding \"the Gulph,\" an isolated pass that controlled one approach to the camp. He imposed discipline and defeated an attempted mutiny by some of the troops.\n\nBurr's regiment was devastated by British artillery on June 28, 1778 at the Battle of Monmouth in New Jersey and he suffered heat stroke. In January 1779, he was assigned to Westchester County, New York in command of Malcolm's Regiment, a region between the British post at Kingsbridge, Bronx and that of the Americans about to the north. This district was part of the larger command of General Alexander McDougall, and there was much turbulence and plundering by lawless bands of civilians and by raiding parties of ill-disciplined soldiers from both armies.\n\nIn March 1779, due to continuing bad health, Burr resigned from the Continental Army. He renewed his study of law. Technically, he was no longer in the service, but he remained active in the war; he was assigned by General Washington to perform occasional intelligence missions for Continental generals, such as Arthur St. Clair. On July 5, 1779, he rallied a group of Yale students at New Haven, Connecticut, along with Captain James Hillhouse and the Second Connecticut Governor's Guards, in a skirmish with the British at the West River. The British advance was repulsed, forcing them to enter New Haven from Hamden, Connecticut.\n\nDespite these activities, Burr finished his studies and was admitted to the bar at Albany, New York in 1782. He married that same year and began practicing law in New York City the following year, after the British evacuated the city. He and his wife lived for the next several years in a house on Wall Street in Lower Manhattan.\n\nIn 1782, Burr married Theodosia Bartow Prevost (1746–1794), a widow with five children who was ten years his senior, and lived with her in Philadelphia. Her first husband had been Jacques Marcus Prevost, a British Army officer of Swiss origin with whom she lived at The Hermitage in New Jersey. He died in the West Indies during the Revolutionary War. Theodosia Burr died in 1794 of stomach cancer.\n\nThe Burrs' daughter Theodosia was born in 1783 and named after her mother; she was their only child to survive to adulthood. Burr prescribed education for his daughter in the classics, language, horsemanship, and music, and she became widely known for her education and accomplishments. In 1801, she married Joseph Alston of South Carolina. They had a son together who died of fever at age ten. During the winter of 1812–1813, Theodosia was lost with the schooner \"Patriot\" off the Carolinas, either murdered by pirates or shipwrecked in a storm.\n\nBurr acted as a father to the two teenage sons of his wife's first marriage, Augustine James Frederick Prevost (called Frederick) and John Bartow Prevost. He provided for their education, gave both of them clerkships in his law office, and frequently was accompanied by one of them as an assistant when he traveled on business. John was later appointed by Thomas Jefferson to a post in the Territory of Orleans as the first judge of the Louisiana Supreme Court.\nBurr served as a guardian to Nathalie de Lage de Volude from 1794 to 1801 during Theodosia's childhood. She was from an aristocratic family and had been taken to New York for safety during the French Revolution by her governess Caroline de Senat. Burr opened his home to them, allowing Madame Senat to tutor private students there along with his daughter Theodosia, and Nathalie became a companion and close friend to her. Natalie married the son of General Thomas Sumter who served in Rio de Janeiro from 1810 to 1819 as the American ambassador to Portugal during the transfer of the Portuguese Court to Brazil. Their son Thomas De Lage Sumter was a Congressman from South Carolina.\n\nIn the 1790s, Burr also took painter John Vanderlyn into his home as a protégé and provided him with financial support and patronage for 20 years. He arranged Vanderlyn's training by Gilbert Stuart in Philadelphia, and sent him in 1796 to the École des Beaux-Arts in Paris where he remained for six years.\n\nThere is an oral tradition among some of Burr's descendants that he fathered two illegitimate children with an East Indian woman who worked as a servant or governess in his household in Philadelphia during his first marriage. According to these family histories, the woman was named either Mary Emmons or Eugénie Beauharnais, and she came from Calcutta to Haiti or Saint-Domingue, where she lived and worked before being brought to Philadelphia—possibly by Theodosia's first husband Jacques Prevost. Both of the children married into Philadelphia's \"Free Negro\" community in which their families became prominent:\n\n\nOne contemporary of John Pierre Burr identified him as a natural son of Burr in a published account, but Burr's surviving letters and documents provide no evidence of any woman matching the description of Mary or Eugénie and do not mention or allude to Louisa or Jean Pierre. No source suggests that Burr acknowledged them as his children, in contrast to his adoption or acknowledgement of other children born later in his life.\n\nBurr served in the New York State Assembly from 1784 to 1785. In addition, he continued his military service as lieutenant colonel and commander of a regiment in the militia brigade commanded by William Malcolm. He became seriously involved in politics in 1789, when George Clinton appointed him as New York State Attorney General. He was also Commissioner of Revolutionary War Claims in 1791. In 1791, he was elected by the legislature as a Senator from New York, defeating incumbent General Philip Schuyler. He served in the Senate until 1797.\n\nBurr ran for president in the 1796 election, coming in fourth with 30 votes behind John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, and Thomas Pinckney. He was shocked by this defeat, but many Democratic-Republican electors voted for Jefferson and no one else, or for Jefferson and a candidate other than Burr. Jefferson and Burr were again candidates for president and vice president during the election of 1800. Jefferson ran with Burr in exchange for Burr working to obtain New York's electoral votes for Jefferson.\n\nPresident John Adams appointed Washington as commanding general of U.S. forces in 1798, but he rejected Burr's application for a brigadier general's commission during the Quasi-War with France. Washington wrote, \"By all that I have known and heard, Colonel Burr is a brave and able officer, but the question is whether he has not equal talents at intrigue.\" Burr was elected to the New York State Assembly in 1798 and served there through 1799. During this time, he cooperated with the Holland Land Company in gaining passage of a law to permit aliens to hold and convey lands. National parties became clearly defined during Adam's Presidency, and Burr loosely associated himself with the Democratic-Republicans, though he had moderate Federalist allies such as Senator Jonathan Dayton of New Jersey.\n\nBurr quickly became a key player in New York politics, more powerful in time than Hamilton due largely to the power of the Tammany Society (which became Tammany Hall). Burr converted it from a social club into a political machine to help Jefferson reach the Presidency, particularly in populous New York City.\n\nIn September 1799, Burr fought a duel with John Barker Church, whose wife Angelica was the sister of Hamilton's wife Elizabeth. Church had accused Burr of taking a bribe from the Holland Company in exchange for his political influence. Burr and Church fired at each other and missed, and afterward Church acknowledged that he was wrong to have accused Burr without proof. Burr accepted this as an apology, and the two men shook hands and ended the dispute.\n\nIn 1799, Burr founded the Bank of the Manhattan Company, and the enmity between him and Hamilton may have arisen from how he did so. He had solicited support from Hamilton and other Federalists under the guise that he was establishing a badly needed water company for Manhattan. He secretly changed the charter to include banking, however, and dropped any pretense of founding a water company once he had gained approval. Hamilton and other supporters believed that he had acted dishonorably in deceiving them. Meanwhile, construction was delayed on a safe water system for Manhattan, and writer Ron Chernow suggests that the delay may have contributed to deaths during a subsequent malaria epidemic.\n\nBurr's Manhattan Company was more than a bank; it was a tool to promote Democratic-Republican power and influence, and its loans were directed to partisans. By extending credit to small businessmen, who then obtained enough property to gain the franchise, the bank was able to increase the party's electorate. Federalist bankers in New York responded by trying to organize a credit boycott of Democratic-Republican businessmen. Partisanship escalated.\n\nIn the 1800 city elections, Burr combined the political influence of the Manhattan Company with party campaign innovations to deliver New York's support for Jefferson. In 1800, New York's state legislature was to choose the presidential electors, as they had in 1796 (for John Adams). Before the April 1800 legislative elections, the State Assembly was controlled by the Federalists. The City of New York elected assembly members on an at-large basis. Burr and Hamilton were the key campaigners for their respective parties. Burr's Democratic-Republican slate of assemblymen for New York City was elected, giving the party control of the legislature, which in turn gave New York's electoral votes to Jefferson and Burr. This drove another wedge between Hamilton and Burr.\n\nBurr enlisted the help of Tammany Hall to win the voting for selection of Electoral College delegates. He gained a place on the Democratic-Republican presidential ticket in the 1800 election with Jefferson. Though Jefferson and Burr won New York, he and Burr tied for the presidency overall, with 73 electoral votes each. Members of the Democratic-Republican Party understood they intended that Jefferson should be president and Burr vice president, but the tied vote required that the final choice be made by the House of Representatives, with each of the 16 states having one vote, and nine votes required for election.\n\nPublicly, Burr remained quiet, and refused to surrender the presidency to Jefferson, the great enemy of the Federalists. Rumors circulated that Burr and a faction of Federalists were encouraging Republican representatives to vote for him, blocking Jefferson's election in the House. However, solid evidence of such a conspiracy was lacking and historians generally gave Burr the benefit of the doubt. In 2011, however, historian Thomas Baker discovered a previously unknown letter from William P. Van Ness to Edward Livingston, two leading Democratic-Republicans in New York. Van Ness was very close to Burr—serving as his second in the later duel with Hamilton. As a leading Democratic-Republican, Van Ness secretly supported the Federalist plan to elect Burr as president and tried to get Livingston to join. Livingston apparently agreed at first, then reversed himself. Baker argues that Burr probably supported the Van Ness plan: \"There is a compelling pattern of circumstantial evidence, much of it newly discovered, that strongly suggests Aaron Burr did exactly that as part of a stealth campaign to compass the presidency for himself.\" The attempt did not work, due partly to Livingston's reversal, but more to Hamilton's energetic opposition to Burr. Jefferson was elected president, and Burr vice president.\n\nBurr was never trusted by Jefferson. He was effectively shut out of party matters. As vice president, Burr earned praise from some enemies for his even-handed fairness and his judicial manner as President of the Senate; he fostered some traditions for that office that have become time-honored. Burr's judicial manner in presiding over the impeachment trial of Justice Samuel Chase has been credited as helping to preserve the principle of judicial independence that was established by \"Marbury v. Madison\" in 1803. One newspaper wrote that Burr had conducted the proceedings with the \"impartiality of an angel, but with the rigor of a devil\".\n\nBurr's farewell speech in March 1805 moved some of his harshest critics in the Senate to tears. But it was never recorded in full, and has been preserved only in short quotes and descriptions of the address, which defended the United States of America's system of government.\n\nWhen it became clear that Jefferson would drop Burr from his ticket in the 1804 election, the Vice President ran for Governor of New York instead. Burr lost the election to little known Morgan Lewis, in what was the largest margin of loss in New York's history up to that time. Burr blamed his loss on a personal smear campaign believed to have been orchestrated by his party rivals, including New York governor George Clinton. Alexander Hamilton also opposed Burr, due to his belief that Burr had entertained a Federalist secession movement in New York. In April, the \"Albany Register\" published a letter from Dr. Charles D. Cooper to Philip Schuyler, which relayed Hamilton's judgment that Burr was \"a dangerous man, and one who ought not be trusted with the reins of government\", and claiming to know of \"a still more despicable opinion which General Hamilton has expressed of Mr. Burr\". In June, Burr sent this letter to Hamilton, seeking an affirmation or disavowal of Cooper's characterization of Hamilton's remarks.\n\nHamilton replied that Burr should give specifics of Hamilton's remarks, not Cooper's. He said he could not answer regarding Cooper's interpretation. A few more letters followed, in which the exchange escalated to Burr's demanding that Hamilton recant or deny any statement disparaging Burr's honor over the past 15 years. Hamilton, having already been disgraced by the Maria Reynolds adultery scandal and mindful of his own reputation and honor, did not. According to historian Thomas Fleming, Burr would have immediately published such an apology, and Hamilton's remaining power in the New York Federalist party would have been diminished. Burr responded by challenging Hamilton to a duel, personal combat under the formalized rules for dueling, the \"code duello\".\nDueling had been outlawed in New York; the sentence for conviction of dueling was death. It was illegal in New Jersey as well, but the consequences were less severe. On July 11, 1804, the enemies met outside Weehawken, New Jersey, at the same spot where Hamilton's oldest son had died in a duel just three years prior. Both men fired, and Hamilton was mortally wounded by a shot just above the hip.\n\nThe observers disagreed on who fired first. They did agree that there was a three-to-four-second interval between the first and the second shot, raising difficult questions in evaluating the two camps' versions. Historian William Weir speculates that Hamilton might have been undone by his own machinations: secretly setting his pistol's trigger to require only a half pound of pressure as opposed to the usual 10 pounds. Burr, Weir contends, most likely had no idea that the gun's trigger pressure could be reset. Louisiana State University history professors Nancy Isenberg and Andrew Burstein concur with this. They note that \"Hamilton brought the pistols, which had a larger barrel than regular dueling pistols, and a secret hair-trigger, and were therefore much more deadly,\" and conclude that \"Hamilton gave himself an unfair advantage in their duel, and got the worst of it anyway.\"\n\nDavid O. Stewart, in his biography of Burr, \"American Emperor\", notes that the reports of Hamilton's intentionally missing Burr with his shot began to be published in newspaper reports in papers friendly to Hamilton only in the days after his death. But Ron Chernow, in his biography, \"Alexander Hamilton\", states Hamilton told numerous friends well before the duel of his intention to avoid firing at Burr. Additionally, Hamilton wrote a number of letters, including a \"Statement on Impending Duel With Aaron Burr\" and his last missives to his wife dated before the duel, which also attest to his intention. The two shots, witnesses reported, followed one another in close succession, and none of those witnesses could agree as to who fired first. Prior to the duel proper, Hamilton took a good deal of time getting used to the feel and weight of the pistol (which had been used in the duel at the same Weehawken site in which his 19-year-old son had been killed), as well as putting on his glasses in order to see his opponent more clearly. The seconds placed Hamilton so that Burr would have the rising sun behind him, and during the brief duel, one witness reported, Hamilton seemed to be hindered by this placement as the sun was in his eyes.\n\nEach man took one shot, and Burr's shot fatally injured Hamilton, while Hamilton's shot missed. Burr's bullet entered Hamilton's abdomen above his right hip, piercing Hamilton's liver and spine. Hamilton was evacuated to the Manhattan home of a friend, William Bayard Jr., where he and his family received visitors including Episcopal bishop Benjamin Moore, who baptized Hamilton before he died the following day. Burr was charged with multiple crimes, including murder, in New York and New Jersey, but was never tried in either jurisdiction.\n\nHe fled to South Carolina, where his daughter lived with her family, but soon returned to Philadelphia and then to Washington to complete his term as vice president. He avoided New York and New Jersey for a time, but all the charges against him were eventually dropped. In the case of New Jersey, the indictment was thrown out on the basis that, although Hamilton was shot in New Jersey, he died in New York.\n\nAfter Burr left the Vice-Presidency at the end of his term in 1805, he journeyed to the Western frontier, areas west of the Allegheny Mountains and down the Ohio River Valley eventually reaching the lands acquired in the Louisiana Purchase. Burr had leased 40,000 acres (16,000 ha) of land—known as the Bastrop Tract—along the Ouachita River, in Louisiana, from the Spanish government. Starting in Pittsburgh and then proceeding to Beaver, Pennsylvania, and Wheeling, Virginia, and onward he drummed up support for his plans.\n\nHis most important contact was General James Wilkinson, Commander-in-Chief of the U.S. Army at New Orleans and Governor of the Louisiana Territory. Others included Harman Blennerhassett, who offered the use of his private island for training and outfitting Burr's expedition. Wilkinson would later prove to be a bad choice.\n\nBurr saw war with Spain as a distinct possibility. In case of a war declaration, Andrew Jackson stood ready to help Burr, who would be in position to immediately join in. Burr's expedition of about eighty men carried modest arms for hunting, and no \"materiel\" was ever revealed, even when Blennerhassett Island was seized by Ohio militia. His \"conspiracy\", he always avowed, was that if he settled there with a large group of (armed) \"farmers\" and war broke out, he would have an army with which to fight and claim land for himself, thus recouping his fortunes. However, the 1819 Adams–Onís Treaty secured Florida for the United States without a fight, and war in Texas did not occur until 1836, the year Burr died.\n\nAfter a near-incident with Spanish forces at Natchitoches, Wilkinson decided he could best serve his conflicting interests by betraying Burr's plans to President Jefferson and to his Spanish paymasters. Jefferson issued an order for Burr's arrest, declaring him a traitor before any indictment. Burr read this in a newspaper in the Territory of Orleans on January 10, 1807. Jefferson's warrant put Federal agents on his trail. Burr twice turned himself in to the Federal authorities. Two judges found his actions legal and released him.\n\nJefferson's warrant, however, followed Burr, who fled toward Spanish Florida. He was intercepted at Wakefield, in Mississippi Territory (now in the state of Alabama), on February 19, 1807. He was confined to Fort Stoddert after being arrested on charges of treason. \n\nBurr's secret correspondence with Anthony Merry and the Marquis of Casa Yrujo, the British and Spanish ministers at Washington, was eventually revealed. He had tried to secure money and to conceal his true designs, which was to help Mexico overthrow Spanish power in the Southwest. Burr intended to found a dynasty in what would have become former Mexican territory. This was a misdemeanor, based on the Neutrality Act of 1794, which Congress passed to block filibuster expeditions against US neighbors, such as those of George Rogers Clark and William Blount. Jefferson, however, sought the highest charges against Burr.\n\nIn 1807, Burr was brought to trial on a charge of treason before the United States Circuit court at Richmond, Virginia. His defense lawyers included Edmund Randolph, John Wickham, Luther Martin, and Benjamin Gaines Botts. Burr had been arraigned four times for treason before a grand jury indicted him. The only physical evidence presented to the Grand Jury was Wilkinson's so-called letter from Burr, which proposed the idea of stealing land in the Louisiana Purchase. During the Jury's examination, the court discovered that the letter was written in Wilkinson's own handwriting. He said he had made a copy because he had lost the original. The Grand Jury threw the letter out as evidence, and the news made a laughingstock of the general for the rest of the proceedings.\n\nThe trial, presided over by Chief Justice of the United States John Marshall, began on August 3. requires that treason either be admitted in open court, or proven by an overt act witnessed by two people. Since no two witnesses came forward, Burr was acquitted on September 1, in spite of the full force of the Jefferson administration's political influence thrown against him. Burr was immediately tried on a misdemeanor charge and was again acquitted.\n\nGiven that Jefferson was using his influence as president in an effort to obtain a conviction, the trial was a major test of the Constitution and the concept of separation of powers. Jefferson challenged the authority of the Supreme Court, specifically Chief Justice Marshall, an Adams appointee who clashed with Jefferson over John Adams' last-minute judicial appointments. Jefferson believed that Burr's treason was obvious. Burr sent a letter to Jefferson in which he stated that he could do Jefferson much harm. The case as tried was decided on whether Aaron Burr was present at certain events at certain times and in certain capacities. Thomas Jefferson used all of his influence to get Marshall to convict, but Marshall was not swayed.\n\nHistorians Nancy Isenberg and Andrew Burstein write that Burr:\nwas not guilty of treason, nor was he ever convicted, because there was no evidence, not one credible piece of testimony, and the star witness for the prosecution had to admit that he had doctored a letter implicating Burr.\n\nDavid O. Stewart, on the other hand, insists that while Burr was not explicitly guilty of treason according to Marshall's definition, evidence exists that links him to treasonous crimes. For example, Bollman admitted to Jefferson during an interrogation that Burr planned to raise an army and invade Mexico. He said that Burr believed that he should be Mexico's monarch, as a republican government was not right for the Mexican people. Many historians believe the extent of Burr's involvement may never be known.\n\nBy the conclusion of his trial for treason, despite an acquittal, all of Burr's hopes for a political comeback had been dashed, and he fled America and his creditors for Europe. Dr. David Hosack, Hamilton's physician and a friend to both Hamilton and Burr, loaned Burr money for passage on a ship.\n\nBurr lived in self-imposed exile from 1808 to 1812, passing most of this period in England, where he occupied a house on Craven Street in London. He became a good friend, even confidant, of the English Utilitarian philosopher Jeremy Bentham, and on occasion lived at Bentham's home. He also spent time in Scotland, Denmark, Sweden, Germany, and France. Ever hopeful, he solicited funding for renewing his plans for a conquest of Mexico, but was rebuffed. He was ordered out of England and Napoleon Bonaparte refused to receive him, although one of his ministers held an interview concerning Burr's goals for Spanish Florida or the British possessions in the Caribbean.\n\nAfter returning from Europe, Burr used the surname \"Edwards\", his mother's maiden name, for a while to avoid creditors. With help from old friends Samuel Swartwout and Matthew L. Davis, Burr returned to New York and his law practice. Later he helped the heirs of the Eden family in a financial lawsuit. By the early 1820s, the remaining members of the Eden household, Eden's widow and two daughters, had become a surrogate family to Burr.\n\nDespite financial setbacks, Burr lived out the remainder of his life in New York in relative peace, until 1833, when his second marriage failed after four months, soon followed by medical difficulties.\n\nBurr adopted or otherwise acknowledged two sons and two daughters late in his life, after the death of his daughter Theodosia:\n\n\nOn July 1, 1833, at age 77, Burr married Eliza Jumel, a wealthy widow who was 19 years younger. They lived together briefly at her residence which she had acquired with her first husband, the Morris–Jumel Mansion in the Washington Heights neighborhood in Manhattan. Listed on the National Register of Historic Places, it is now preserved and open to the public.\n\nSoon after the marriage, she realized her fortune was dwindling due to Burr's land speculation losses. She separated from Burr after four months of marriage. For her divorce lawyer, she chose Alexander Hamilton Jr., and the divorce was officially completed on September 14, 1836, coincidentally the day of Burr's death.\n\nBurr suffered a debilitating stroke in 1834, which rendered him immobile. In 1836, Burr died on Staten Island in the village of Port Richmond, in a boardinghouse that later became known as the St. James Hotel. He was buried near his father in Princeton, New Jersey.\n\nAaron Burr was a man of complex character who made many friends, but also many powerful enemies. He may be the most controversial of the Founding Fathers of the United States. He was indicted for murder after the death of Hamilton, but never prosecuted; he was reported by acquaintances to be curiously unmoved by Hamilton's death, expressing no regret for his role in the result. He was arrested and prosecuted for treason by President Jefferson, but acquitted. Contemporaries often remained suspicious of Burr's motives to the end of his life, continuing to view him as untrustworthy at least since his role in the founding of the Bank of Manhattan.\n\nIn his later years in New York, Burr provided money and education for several children, some of whom were reputed to be his own natural children. To his friends and family, and often to complete strangers, he could be kind and generous. The wife of the struggling poet Sumner Lincoln Fairfield recorded in her autobiography that in the late 1820s, their friend Burr pawned his watch to provide for the care of the Fairfields' two children. Jane Fairfield wrote that, while traveling, she and her husband had left the children in New York with their grandmother, who proved unable to provide adequate food or heat for them. The grandmother took the children to Burr's home and asked his help: \"[Burr] wept, and replied, 'Though I am poor and have not a dollar, the children of such a mother shall not suffer while I have a watch.' He hastened on this godlike errand, and quickly returned, having pawned the article for twenty dollars, which he gave to make comfortable my precious babes.\"\n\nBy Fairfield's account, Burr had lost his religious faith before that time; upon seeing a painting of Christ's suffering, Burr candidly told her, \"It is a fable, my child; there never was such a being.\"\n\nBurr believed women to be intellectually equal to men, and hung a portrait of Mary Wollstonecraft over his mantel. The Burrs' daughter, Theodosia, was taught dance, music, several languages, and learned to shoot from horseback. Until her death at sea in 1813, she remained devoted to her father. Not only did Burr advocate education for women, upon his election to the New York State Legislature, he submitted a bill to allow women to vote.\n\nConversely, Burr was considered a notorious womanizer. In addition to cultivating relationships with women in his social circles, Burr's personal journals indicate that he was a frequent patron of prostitutes during his travels in Europe; he recorded brief notes of dozens of such encounters, and the amounts he paid. He described \"sexual release as the only remedy for his restlessness and irritability\".\n\nIn 1784 as a New York state assemblyman, Burr unsuccessfully sought to abolish slavery immediately following the American Revolutionary War. The legislature in 1799 finally abolished slavery in New York. John Quincy Adams wrote in his diary when Burr died: \"Burr's life, take it all together, was such as in any country of sound morals his friends would be desirous of burying in quiet oblivion.\" Adams' father, President John Adams, had frequently defended Burr during his life. At an earlier time, he wrote, Burr \"had served in the army, and came out of it with the character of a knight without fear and an able officer\".\n\nGordon S. Wood, a leading scholar of the revolutionary period, holds that it was Burr's character that put him at odds with the rest of the \"founding fathers\", especially Madison, Jefferson, and Hamilton. He believed that this led to his personal and political defeats and, ultimately, to his place outside the golden circle of revered revolutionary figures. Because of Burr's habit of placing self-interest above the good of the whole, those men thought that Burr represented a serious threat to the ideals for which they had fought the revolution. Their ideal, as particularly embodied in Washington and Jefferson, was that of \"disinterested politics\", a government led by educated gentlemen who would fulfill their duties in a spirit of public virtue and without regard to personal interests or pursuits. This was the core of an Enlightenment gentleman, and Burr's political enemies thought that he lacked that essential core. Hamilton thought that Burr's self-serving nature made him unfit to hold office, especially the presidency.\n\nAlthough Hamilton considered Jefferson a political enemy, he believed him a man of public virtue. Hamilton conducted an unrelenting campaign in the House of Representatives to prevent Burr's election to the presidency and gain election of his erstwhile enemy, Jefferson. Hamilton characterized Burr as greatly immoral, \"unprincipled ... voluptuary\", and deemed his political quest as one for \"permanent power\". He predicted that if Burr gained power, his leadership would be for personal gain, but that Jefferson was committed to preserving the Constitution.\n\nAlthough Burr is often remembered primarily for his duel with Hamilton, his establishment of guides and rules for the first impeachment trial set a high bar for behavior and procedures in the Senate chamber, many of which are followed today.\n\nA lasting consequence of Burr's role in the election of 1800 was the Twelfth Amendment to the United States Constitution, which changed the way in which vice presidents were chosen. As was obvious from the 1800 election, the situation could easily arise where the vice president, as the defeated presidential candidate, could not work well with the president. The Twelfth Amendment required that votes be cast separately for president and vice president.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55119735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55119735", "title": "Abbud", "text": "Abbud\n\nAbbud is both a surname and a given name. Notable people with the name include:\n\n"}
{"id": "52996716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52996716", "title": "Adaoha Ugo-Ngadi", "text": "Adaoha Ugo-Ngadi\n\nAdaoha Ugo-Ngadi also known as Ada Udo-Ngadi is the Managing Director of Ontario Oil & Gas Nigeria Limited. She was a former employee of First Bank of Nigeria and Access Bank plc.\n\nUdo-Ngadi was arraigned at the Ikeja High Court on 1 August 2013 alongside Walter Wagbatsoma, Mr. Babafemi Fakuade and their company Ontario Oil and Gas Limited by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission. Adaoha Ugo-Ngadi, Walter Wagbatsoma, Fakuade Babafemi Ebenezer and Ontario Oil and Gas Nigeria Limited were alleged to have fraudulently obtained the sum of N1,959,377,542.63 from the Petroleum Support Fund for a purported importation of 39.2 million litres of Premium Motor Spirit.\n\nAccording to the prosecution, the defendants defrauded the Federal Government of Nigeria of N340 million in the third quarter of 2010 and N414 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 and did not remit an excess of N754 million.\n\nThe conviction of Mrs. Ugo-Ngadi is arguably wrong. Justice Okunnu convicted Mrs Ugo-Ngadi on the basis that she is the Managing Director of Ontario Oil and Gas Ltd, and therefore, she is the 'operating mind' and alter ego of the company. The Judge found that \"The transactions were with respect to what has been described as the Third Quarter and Fourth Quarter 'allocations' of that year, the year 2010, under the said Petroleum Support Fund (PSF) scheme\". However, there was no evidence to show that Mrs. Ugo-Ngadi was the Managing Director ('operating mind' and alter ego) of Ontario and Gas Ltd at the relevant time in 2010. [http://thenewsnigeria.com.ng/2015/08/ceo-urges-court-wind-up-ontario-oil-gas-company/ It was reported that one Mr. Bawo Etikeretse was the Managing Director ('the operating mind' and alter ego) of Ontario Oil and Gas Ltd in the Third Quarter [July<nowiki>]</nowiki> of 2010 and Fourth Quarter [November<nowiki>]</nowiki> of 2010]. Mrs. Ugo-Ngadi became the Executive Director of Ontario and Gas Ltd in December 2010 after the transaction has been completed. The News Newspaper reported Mr Etikeretse as saying that [http://thenewsnigeria.com.ng/2015/08/ceo-urges-court-wind-up-ontario-oil-gas-company/ \"as at 13th of December 2010 when Ugo-Ngadi Adaoha was appointed Executive Director Finance and strategy, and Walter Wagbatsoma was Executive Vice Chairman, he [Mr. Bawo Etikeretse<nowiki>]</nowiki> was the managing Director of the company [Ontario Oil and Gas Ltd<nowiki>]</nowiki>\".]\n\nUdo-Ngadi was, on Thursday, 26 January 2017, sentenced to 10 years in prison by a Lagos-based High Court sitting in Ikeja for fuel subsidy fraud alongside the chairman of Ontario Oil & Gas Nigeria Limited, Walter Wagbatsoma. In addition to the jail sentence, Ngadi was ordered to refund N754 million to the Federal Government of Nigeria being the amount she defrauded. Justice Okunnu while reading the judgment noted that the convicts defrauded the Federal Government of Nigeria N754million in oil subsidy transactions totaling N1.9billion. Mrs Ugo-Ngadi has filed an appeal at the Court of Appeal challenging her conviction and sentence.\n"}
{"id": "7043489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7043489", "title": "Agustín Caloca Cortés", "text": "Agustín Caloca Cortés\n\nAgustín Caloca Cortés (May 5, 1898 – May 25, 1927) was one of the martyrs of Mexico during the Cristero War.\n\nFather Caloca Cortés was born in El Teúl, Zacatecas. He served as a minister in the parish of Totatiche and as prefect of the auxiliar seminary established in that town by Cristóbal Magallanes Jara.\n\nIn May 1927, he arrived at the seminary to announce that Mexican government soldiers were approaching Totatiche. He ordered the students to abandon the seminary and disperse among the town's population. After helping the students escape, he was taken prisoner and transferred to a jail in Colotlán where he was reunited with Father Magallanes Jara.\n\nHe was purportedly offered his freedom by a military officer on account of his young age, but Caloca Cortes refused his freedom unless freedom was also granted to Father Magallanes Jara.\n\nHis last words before execution by firing squad were, \"We live for God and for Him we die.\"\n\nHe was originally buried in Colotlán but his remains were later exhumed and transferred to the parish of San Juan Bautista in El Teúl.\n\nHoly See\n"}
{"id": "56886069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56886069", "title": "Alex Stamos", "text": "Alex Stamos\n\nAlex Stamos is a computer scientist and the former chief security officer (CSO) at Facebook. His planned departure from the company, following disagreement with other executives about how to address the Russian government's use of its platform to spread disinformation during the 2016 U.S. presidential election, was reported in March 2018.\n\nStamos grew up in Fair Oaks, California and graduated from Bella Vista High School in 1997. Stamos attended the University of California, Berkeley, where he graduated in 2001 with a degree in EECS.\n\nStamos began his career at Loudcloud and, later, as a security consultant at @stake.\n\nIn 2004, Stamos co-founded iSEC Partners, a security consulting firm, with Joel Wallenstrom, Himanshu Dwivedi, Jesse Burns and Scott Stender. During his time at iSEC Partners, Stamos was well known for his research publications on vulnerabilities in forensics software and MacOS, Operation Aurora, and security ethics in the post-Snowden era.\n\nStamos was an expert witness for a number of cases involving digital privacy, encryption, and free speech:\n\n\niSEC Partners was acquired by NCC Group in 2010.\n\nFollowing the acquisition of iSEC Partners by NCC Group, Stamos became the CTO of Artemis Internet, an internal startup at NCC Group. Artemis Internet petitioned ICANN to host a '.secure' gTLD on which all services would be required to meet minimum security standards Artemis ultimately acquired the right to operate the '.trust' gTLD from Deutsche Post to launch its services.\n\nStamos filed and received five patents for his work at Artemis Internet.\n\nIn 2014, Stamos joined Yahoo! as CSO. While at Yahoo!, he testified to Congress on online advertising and its impact on computer security and data privacy. He publicly challenged NSA Director Michael S. Rogers on the subject of encryption backdoors in February 2015 at a cybersecurity conference hosted by New America. He resigned in June 2015 in response to a then-undisclosed program to scan incoming email on behalf of United States government intelligence agencies.\n\nIn 2015, Stamos joined Facebook as CSO. During his time at Facebook, Stamos co-authored a paper (with Jen Weedon and Will Nuland) on the use of social media to attack elections. He later delivered a keynote address at the Black Hat Briefings in 2017 on the need to broaden the definition of security and diversify the cybersecurity industry.\n\nFollowing disagreement with other executives about how to address the Russian government's use of its platform to spread disinformation during the 2016 U.S. presidential election, he made plans in 2018 to leave the company to take a research professorship at Stanford University.\n\n, Stanford University's Center for International Security and Cooperation listed Stamos as \"an Adjunct Professor at Stanford's Freeman-Spogli Institute, a William J. Perry Fellow at the Center for International Security and Cooperation, and a visiting scholar at the Hoover Institution\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22760328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22760328", "title": "Aloysius Cheang", "text": "Aloysius Cheang\n\nAloysius Cheang is the Managing Director APAC for the Cloud Security Alliance. He has another role as their Standards Secretariat overseeing all standardization efforts within CSA (Cloud Security Alliance) and owning the relationships with other SDOs. Aloysius was a former member of the Singapore government's Chief Security Officer roundtable, and founder of SIG^2 in 2001. He also held senior executive positions with various consulting companies and telco with a worldwide remit.\n\nSIG^2 rose to become the de facto security community in Asia, and lead to the formalisation of the Singapore government-backed Association of Information Security Professionals (AISP), where Cheang was pro tem chairman from 2006–2007. He was also co-editor for the ISO/IEC 27032 \"Guidelines for Cybersecurity\", and represented Singapore on ISO/IEC/JTC 1 SC 27 WG4. His previous contribution for SS 507 “Business Continuity/Disaster Recovery Industry Standard” was adopted as ISO/IEC 24762. Cheang sits on the Singapore IT Standards Committee and the National Infocomm Competency Framework Security Sub-Committee.\n\nCheang's professional certifications include CISA, CISSP and GCIH, and is the first Microsoft Security MVP in South Asia, and a member of the Microsoft SEA MVP Hall of Fame. His views have been presented in \"Times Asia\", \"CIO Asia\", ZDNet, \"ComputerWorld\", \"The New Paper\", \"MyPaper\", \"Sin Chew Daily\", \"Wen Wei Po\", \"The Straits Times\" and ChannelNewsAsia as an independent source of specialist opinion.\n\n"}
{"id": "5536866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5536866", "title": "Alvan Clark &amp; Sons", "text": "Alvan Clark &amp; Sons\n\nAlvan Clark & Sons was an American maker of optics that became famous for crafting lenses for some of the largest refracting telescopes of the 19th and early 20th centuries. Founded in 1846 in Cambridgeport, Massachusetts, by Alvan Clark (1804–1887, a descendant of Cape Cod whalers who started as a portrait painter), and his sons George Bassett Clark (1827–1891) and Alvan Graham Clark (1832–1897). Five times, the firm built the largest refracting telescopes in the world. The Clark firm gained \"worldwide fame and distribution\", wrote one author on astronomy in 1899.\n\nThe Dearborn telescope (housed successively at the University of Chicago, Northwestern University and Adler Planetarium) was commissioned in 1856 by the University of Mississippi. The outbreak of civil war prevented them from ever taking ownership. As a result, it was being tested in Cambridgeport when Alvan Graham observed Sirius B in 1862.\n\nIn 1873 they built the objective lens for the refractor at the United States Naval Observatory. In 1883, they build the telescope for the Pulkovo Observatory in Russia, the objective for the refractor at Lick Observatory was made in 1887, and the lens for the Yerkes Observatory refractor, in 1897, only ever exceeded in size by the lens made for Great Paris Exhibition Telescope of 1900.\n\nThe company also built a number of smaller instruments, which are still highly prized among collectors and amateur astronomers.\n\nThe company's assets were acquired by the Sprague-Hathaway Manufacturing Company in 1933, but continued to operate under the Clark name. In 1936, Sprague-Hathaway moved the Clark shop to a new location in West Somerville, Massachusetts, where manufacturing continued in association with the Perkin-Elmer Corporation, another maker of precision instruments. Most of Clark's equipment was disposed of as scrap during World War II, and Sprague-Hathaway itself was liquidated in 1958.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47277214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47277214", "title": "Anand Rai", "text": "Anand Rai\n\nDr. Anand Rai is an Indian activist, medical officer and ophthalmologist. He is best known for exposing the Vyapam scam. The Madhya Pradesh Professional Examination Board (MPPEB), also known by its Hindi acronym \"Vyapam\", is responsible for conducting several examinations that are used to select candidates for educational institutes and government jobs. A nexus of politicians, MPPEB officials and middlemen carried out massive irregularities in these exams, allowing undeserving candidates to be selected.\n\nHe was born in a small village Mahendragaon in Harda district of Madhya Pradesh to the family of a school teacher. He had been a member of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and was active in Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) activities from 2005 to 2013.\n\nRai attended the MGM Medical College in Indore during 2003-2007. There, he noticed several irregularities that allowed the children of bureaucrats and politicians to do well despite not attending classes or exams. He became suspicious in 2005 when he attended his MD exams and found that many of the top qualified students were from the same hostel block. At that time, he did not raise the issue as he was a junior. He then visited the state capital Bhopal to alert the government authorities. According to him, he saw a junior doctor Deepak Yadav and others manipulating medical exam forms, which made him suspect a scam. In 2008, he met his batchmate Dr. Jadgish Sagar (later found to be the kingpin of the Vyapam scam) at the wedding of a common friend. Sagar had left a suitcase at the wedding venue. When he did not return for a long time, Rai opened the suitcase to look for Sagar's contact information. In the suitcase, he found several Pre-Medical Test (PMT) admission forms and photographs.\n\nAfter finishing his post-graduation, Rai joined the college as a faculty member. In 2009, he decided to expose the irregularities in the medical exams, and filed a complaint with MPPEB. The board formed a committee to investigate the matter and discovered that 280 proxy candidates had impersonated the actual candidates in the exams.\n\nRai believed the scam to be much bigger, and suspected involvement of politicians and bureaucrats in it. After having filed repeated complaints and receiving no response, finally he filed a Public Interest Litigation requesting investigation into the scam in July 2013. The subsequent investigation, led by a Special Investigation Team (SIT), resulted in arrests of several politicians including the state's former education minister. He also filed a petition in Supreme Court of India to hand over the investigation of DMAT scam, a private medical college admission scam. since 2005, He has filed more than 1000 RTI applications, including the clinical drug trials with the Drug Controller General of India (DGCI)\n\nOn 17 July 2015, Rai lodged a complaint with CBI against senior BJP leader and former Union Minister Vikram Verma. He alleged that Verma had used his influence and power to get his MBBS student daughter transferred from a medical college in Uttar Pradesh to Gandhi Medical College in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh. On 20 July 2015, the Government transferred him from the health department's training institute in Indore to Dhar. Rai alleged that he was being hounded for complaining against Verma, and stated that he would challenge the transfer in court. Rai filed an affidavit in the High court and alleged that Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had asked him to stop the campaign against Vyapam scam and DMAT scam. In return, his transfer orders will be cancelled. The court then granted one week to the state government to file the counter affidavit. However, on 18 September 2015, the government cancelled the transfer orders without filing any reply.\n"}
{"id": "4140911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4140911", "title": "Ann Cotton", "text": "Ann Cotton\n\nAnn Lesley Cotton (born 1950) is a Welsh entrepreneur and philanthropist who was awarded an Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2006 Queen's New Year Honours List. The honour was in recognition of her services to education of young women in rural Africa as the founder of Camfed.\n\nCamfed's goal is to replace the existing cycle of poverty and inequality with a new cycle of empowerment and opportunity.The organisation's unique approach is to not only support girls and young women through school, but also on to new lives as entrepreneurs and community leaders. To complete the \"virtuous cycle\", graduating students become CAMA alumnae, many of whom return to school to train and mentor new generations of students. Camfed started out by supporting 32 girls through school in Zimbabwe in 1993. Since then it has expanded its success across 2,295 communities in five sub-Saharan countries. Over the past 17 years, 1,065,710 young people directly benefited from Camfed’s programmes in Ghana, Malawi, Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe. More than 3 million children have already benefited from Camfed's programmes in a network of 5,085 partner school\n\nCamfed won the International Aid and Development Charity of the Year award in 2003. In 2014, Camfed was recognised by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) for best practice in taking development innovation to scale.\n\nCotton was born in Cardiff, Wales, and was educated at Howell's School, Llandaff. For more than three decades, Ann Cotton has been focused on improving opportunity for children at the margins of education. She began her career in a London school by establishing one of the first centres for girls excluded from mainstream education. Cotton's commitment to girls' education in Africa began in 1991, when she went on a research trip to Zimbabwe to investigate why girls' school enrolment in rural areas was so low. Contrary to the common assumption that families weren't sending girls to school for cultural reasons, Cotton discovered that poverty was the main roadblock. Families could not afford to buy books or pay school fees for all their children. Instead, they had to choose which children would receive an education. Since boys had a better chance of getting a paid job after graduation, daughters were rarely selected.\n\nCotton knew that educated girls were less likely to contract HIV/AIDS, would marry later, have fewer and healthier children, and would support the next generation to go to school. She understood that poverty and exclusion affects girls both psychologically and economically, and that if girls could be educated, supported by their communities, and empowered to shape their own destinies, they could change their communities and nations forever. In 1993, after grassroots fundraising that supported the first 32 girls through school in Zimbabwe, Cotton founded Camfed. The reach of the organisation's innovative education programmes has grown ever since. In 2013 alone, Camfed directly supported more than 434,000 children to go to school.\n\nOne of the most effective and innovative results of Camfed's work is CAMA, a unique, 24,436-member-strong pan-African network of Camfed graduates. CAMA alumnae use their experience and expertise to design and deliver extended programs to students and communities, including health and financial literacy training. Each CAMA member supports the education of another two to three children outside of her own family, multiplying the benefits of her education, and testifying to the programs' effectiveness and sustainability. Over Camfed's two decades, this approach has been proven to work both within rural communities and at a larger scale across countries.\n\nAnn Cotton is an Honorary Fellow at Homerton College, Cambridge, and Social Entrepreneur in Residence at the Cambridge University Judge Business School. She is a noted speaker on international platforms, including the World Economic Forum, the Clinton Global Initiative and the Skoll World Forum. In 2014 she addressed the US-Africa Summit hosted by The White House, George W. Bush Institute and US State Department.\n\nCotton has won numerous awards for her work, including an Honorary Doctorate in Law from Cambridge University; an OBE in 2006 in honour of her advocacy of girls' education in Africa; the Skoll Award for Social Entrepreneurship;Woman of the Year in the UK; and UK Social Entrepreneur of the Year. In November 2014, Ann was awarded the WISE Prize for Education, becoming the fourth WISE laureate alongside Vicky Colbert, founder of Escuela Nueva in Colombia, Dr Madhav Chavan, co-founder of Pratham in India, and Sir Fazle Hasan Abed, founder of BRAC in Bangladesh.\n\n"}
{"id": "2162434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2162434", "title": "Chris Pancratz", "text": "Chris Pancratz\n\nChris Pancratz was the Chairman of the Executive Committee of the National Space Society. He died August 2, 2003, of cancer.\n\nPancratz also operated a health care industry consulting business in the Northern Virginia area called PAN Development Associates (PANDA), from the late 90s until shortly before his death, in which he was CEO and principal consultant.\n\nPancratz was active in community service, and served on the Board of Trustees of the Jaycees.\n\n\"The loss of Chris Pancratz robs the NSS of a valuable resource-and individual who combined the qualities of understanding and enthusiastically supporting the exploration of space, plus personal energy and organizational drive.\"\n– Hugh Downs, Chairman of the NSS Board of Governors\n"}
{"id": "47241423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47241423", "title": "Djaro-Belokani", "text": "Djaro-Belokani\n\nThe Djaro-Belokani communities (also Char, Chary, rarely Chartalah were a group of self-governing communities in the Caucasus from the 17th to the 19th centuries. They had significant connections to the Elisu Sultanate to the southeast.\n\nThey extended for about 60 kilometers along the south slope of the Caucasus Mountains in what is now Azerbaijan. Here a series of valleys extended down from the mountain crest southwest to the lowlands of the Alazani River. Population was centered in the lower valleys and their outwash plains. To the southeast was the Elisu Sultanate and beyond that the Shaki Khanate. To the west was the Georgian Kingdom of Kakheti and north over the mountains was Dagestan. The lowlands to the southwest were inhabited by Georgians in the west and Azeris in the east. Its location near the Christian-Muslim divide and proximity to Dagestani raiders made it a battleground.\n\nThe ruling class was a mixture of Avars and Tsakhurs. The common people were Azeris and Ingiloys or Georgian Muslims. The four peoples tended to live in separate villages. The Tsakhurs came from north of the mountains (see Elisu Sultanate) and \"Avar\" may be a vague term for Dagestani. Tsutsiev gives the predominant population as Avar and shows a migration south from the uppermost Avar Koysu River. Early Russian documents tended to call the ruling class \"Lezgians\".\n\nThe political system has been described as an \"aristo-democratic republic\". It was a league of five communities with theoretically equal power. In terms of real power they ranked: Djari, Belokan, Tali, Mukhakh and Dzhinikh. Some add a sixth called Katekh. Djari had by far the most wealth and power. Decisions were made by one or more Jamaats or assemblies. The Jamaat elected a Qadi who had judicial and executive powers. Early writers emphasized the rightlessness of the common people. Recent writers reverse this. The Tsakhurs and Avars confined themselves to collecting a land tax and villages were led by \"Agsakkals\" who administered Sharia law.\n\nBelokan is today a town. Modern Zaqatala is 25 km southeast. From old maps(Baddeley, page 250) Tali was just south of Zaqatala, Mukhakh south of that and Djari might be the modern village of Car at the head of the valley that runs 8 km southwest to Zaqatala. Dzhinikh may have been near the modern Lekit. There is a place called Katekh 8 km west of Zaqatala. In 1830 seven of the 64 legal villages were north of the mountain crest near the original home of the Tsakhurs. In the early 18th century a Turkish firman recognized Djaro-Belokani control as far southwest as the Iori River. The western boundary seems to have been near Lagodekhi across the modern Georgian border.\n\nThis was near the area of Lekianoba where Dagestanis would cross the mountains to raid Georgia. Baddeley says that the Djaris were much involved and sold slaves at the Pashalik of Akhaltsikhe Gammer thinks the economy was injured when the Russians defeated the Turks and blocked the slave trade For the arrival of the Tsakhurs see Elisu Sultanate.\n\nIn 1562 Shah Tahmasp I granted lands west of the Shaki Khanate to a Tsakhur called Adi-Kurkul Beg. The Georgian kings of Kakheti claimed the area and lost a decisive battle in 1695. The Djaris won some battles and in 1715 submitted to Imam Gulu Khan who was Wali of Kakheti. The Djaris fought Nadir Shah's army in 1738 near Dzhinikh and killed his brother Ibraham-Khan.\n\nFollowing the annexation of Georgia several members of the royal family found protection with the mountaineers. It took seven campaigns for the Russians to subdue the area. On 9 March 1803 the Russians stormed Belokan and killed many civilians. On 29 March they entered the abandoned village of Djari. In 1804 General Gulyakov was killed on a punitive expedition in the area. There was another rebellion about 1806 and near this time the Djaris failed to take Fort Alexandrovsky on the Alazani. In 1830, after a 6-month rebellion, the inhabitants of Djari and other villages were resettled in the lowlands. Another attempted resettlement led to another rebellion in 1832. The Russian conquest in 1830 produced a strong backlash in Dagestan and contributed to the origin of the Murid War. In May and December of that year Dagestanis fought the Russians in the Alazani valley. General Strekalov was severely defeated at Zaqatali. Hamzad Bek seems to have been involved in this when he was arrested. Hamzad Bek campaigned here in 1832, Daniyal Bek in 1848 and Shamil in 1853. Shamil's 1853 defeat was largely due to Argutinsky's remarkable march across the snow-covered mountains from Akhti.\n\nThe community was gradually whittled away. Its legal extinction is given by some as 1806 and others as 1830. In 1830 72,900 acres of their land were taken for settlement by Ukrainian Cossacks. {It is not clear what happened to these people.} In 1832 they were forbidden to use grazing lands between the Alazani and Iori Rivers. There were attempts to Christianize the Ingiloys and to classify them as Georgians. In 1830 the area became the Djaro-Belokani Oblast. In 1840 it became the Belokan Uzed, then Belokan Okrug and then the Djaro-Belokani Military Okrug. In 1839 it was divided into 5 Magils each under a Naib. The Magil north of the mountains was soon transferred to the Derbent Military Okrug and after the Murid War to the Samur Okrug of the Dagestan Oblast.\n\nThis article is mostly abstracted from the Russian Wikipedia, there being no obvious source in English.\n"}
{"id": "35133977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35133977", "title": "Dounia Batma", "text": "Dounia Batma\n\nDounia Batma (, born April 1, 1991, in Casablanca, Morocco) is a Moroccan singer who rose to popularity around the world as the runner-up of the first season of \"Arab Idol\" (the Arabic version of Pop Idol) on MBC. She lost the title against Egyptian contestant Carmen Suleiman. She married Mohamed Al Turk the father of Bahrain's famous singer Hala Al Turke\n\nBatma was born and raised in Hay Mohammedi, in the Ain Sebaa-Hay Mohammedi district of Casablanca, Morocco. Her father Hamid Batma played for different bands including Mesnawa and Nass El Ghiwane, and her uncle, Laarbi Batma, is the leader of Moroccan fusion group Nass El Ghiwane, considered by Martin Scorsese as \"Africa's Rolling Stones\". She studied tourism after high-school, without stopping to dream about a musical career. In 2010, at the age of 18, she took part in a Moroccan musical competition, called Studio 2M, broadcast on 2M TV, in the Oriental category. She sang various songs of both Moroccan and Middle-Eastern repertoires, and reached the semi-finals. Even if she didn't reach the final, she managed to release a single \"Aalash Tgheeb\" (Why are you hiding?) in Moroccan Arabic which didn't become very successful. But she realized that she would need to go further to get the career she was expecting and Arab Idol was a great venue to reach the Arab World heart.\n\nOn September 8, 2011, Batma auditioned for the Arabic music competition Arab Idol. The show is the pan-Arab version of \"Pop Idol\" and a rebirth of Future TV's show \"Super Star\". The winner of the competition should win a contract with recording label Platinum Records and Chevrolet Corvette (C6) as well as an important advertisement campaign with Pepsi.\n\nShe auditioned in Casablanca, and performed \"La Tfaker\" (by late Tunisian singer Thekra) in front of the jury composed by Lebanese pop singer Ragheb Alama, Emirati diva Ahlam and Egyptian music producer and musician Hassan Shaf'ei. They invited her to join in, which introduce her to the Arab audience. She was selected in the top 10 against contestants from Tunisia, Syria, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Iraq and Egypt.\n\nBatma's vocal abilities amazed the members of the jury and made her among the favorites since the very first prime, where she performed Talal Maddah's \"Magadir\". Her performance was so strong and so intense that it made Ahlam cry out of emotion. She then excelled in various dialects and various styles from classic Egyptian songs (Umm Kulthum, Mohammed Abdel Wahab, Warda, Faiza Ahmed), to Arabic pop music (Samira Said, Fulla, Najwa Karam, Asala Nasri) and Gulf music (Ahlam, Mohammed Abdu, Talal Maddah).\n\nAmong her most notable performances were her rendition of Umm Kulthum's \"Darrat El Ayam\", for which she received unanimous praises from the jury and her singing of Ahlam's \"Akhtar Men Awal Ahebak\" (in Gulf Arabic), for which Ahlam (the singer of this song and member of the jury) said : \"It is an honor that you sung this for me\".\n\nOn March 24, she lost the title against the Egyptian contestant Carmen Suleiman.\n\nDuring a press conference, Batma seized the chance to clarify that her try in the Middle East is due to the opportunities that can be offered there, and added that \"the launch of my artistic career from the East won't affect my contribution to the promotion of Moroccan art, and won't also affect my pride of my mother tongue\". Many viewers noticed that Batma didn't use her Moroccan Arabic whenever she was speaking in front of the audiences and switched to another Arabic dialect (mostly the \"Khaliji\" dialect) as most Moroccan artists usually do when they travel to the Middle East. She considers Asma Lamnawar and Hoda Saad as role models.\n\nAfter the show, the CEO of Saudi Platinum Records, Rashed Al-Majed, signed her to the label, saying that her voice was \"rare\". She received a Mercedes.\n\nDounia Batma got married to her manager Mohammed Al Turk on December 20, 2013.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58612706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58612706", "title": "E-Pana", "text": "E-Pana\n\nProject E-Pana is a Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) task force created in 2005 with the purpose of solving cases of missing and murdered persons along a section of Highway 16, between Prince Rupert, British Columbia and Prince George, British Columbia, dubbed the Highway of Tears. Though it started with the highway of tears victims, within a year of formation, it morphed to include victims along Highways 5, 24 and 97.\n\nThe name \"E-Pana\" was chosen from a concatenation of E from \"E\" Division, which is the RCMP division that has jurisdiction over British Columbia (BC), and Pana, which is the name of an Inuit goddess who cares for souls before heaven or re-incarnation.\n\nThe task force was created during the Fall of 2005 in order to investigate a series of unsolved murders and disappearances along BC's Highway of Tears, and determine whether a serial killer or killers is operating there. In 2006, the Task Force took ownership of nine investigations. In 2007 the number of cases doubled from nine to eighteen.\n\nThe criteria for case selection was changed around this time to more precisely define E-Pana victims.\n\nE-Pana consists of 13 murder investigations and 5 disappearances, ranging in date from 1969 to 2006.\n\nNot a single E-Pana case along the Highway of Tears corridor has been solved to date.\n\nThirteen of the eighteen victims on the E-Pana list were teenagers; ten of aboriginal descent.\n\nThe following criteria must be met by the victims in order to be added to the E-Pana list:\n\n\nInvestigators are confident that a single serial killer is not responsible for all of the E-PANA investigations.To date only one suspect has been charged in any of the E-Pana cases, Garry Taylor Handlen. Handlen was charged with the murder of 12 year old Monica Jack. Bobby Jack Fowler was shown through DNA evidence to be responsible for the murder of Colleen McMillan, but died in prison before charges could be laid. Fowler is also the prime suspect in the murders of Gale Weys and Pamela Darlington.\n\nOn September 25, 2012, the RCMP announced a link between the murders and Fowler. His DNA was found on the body of Colleen MacMillen, one of the presumed victims. Investigators first compiled a DNA profile of the perpetrator in 2007, but technology available at the time did not yield a strong enough sample. New technologies allowed police to re-examine the DNA in 2012, leading to the identification. In addition, Fowler is also strongly suspected of having killed both Gale Weys and Pamela Darlington in 1973. The RCMP believe that he may have also killed as many as ten or possibly even twenty of the other victims. Several of the E-Pana murders took place after Fowler's arrest in June 1995.\n\nIn December 2014, a serial rapist named Garry Taylor Handlen was charged with the murders of Monica Jack and 11-year-old Kathryn-Mary Herbert. Police said that Handlen was previously a suspect, but they had not had enough evidence to charge him. The December 2014 arrest was attributed to new advances in DNA analysis, but the specific details were not released. It should be noted that the murders for which Handlen has been charged are for victims that were neither found, nor taken near or around the Highway of Tears. The only thing linking them to the Highway of Tears is the E-Pana investigation. \n\nIn the 2009/2010 year, E-Pana received over five million dollars in annual funding but has since dramatically declined due to budget cutbacks; receiving only $806,109 for the 2013/2014 year. In 2013, Craig Callens, the RCMP Deputy Commissioner, warned that further budget reductions from the provincial government would greatly affect the Highway of Tears investigation. A 2014 Freedom of Information request stated that the task force had dropped from seventy officers to twelve officers since 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1369237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1369237", "title": "Emil Fackenheim", "text": "Emil Fackenheim\n\nEmil Ludwig Fackenheim (22 June 1916 – 18 September 2003) was a noted Jewish philosopher and Reform rabbi.\n\nBorn in Halle, Germany, he was arrested by Nazis on the night of 9 November 1938, known as Kristallnacht. Briefly interned at the Sachsenhausen concentration camp (1938–1939), he escaped with his younger brother Wolfgang to Great Britain, where his parents later joined him. Emil's older brother Ernst-Alexander, who refused to leave Germany, was killed in the Holocaust.\n\nHeld by the British as an enemy alien after the outbreak of World War II, Fackenheim was sent to Canada in 1940, where he was interned at a remote internment camp near Sherbrooke, Quebec. He was freed afterward and served as the Interim Rabbi at Temple Anshe Shalom in Hamilton, Ontario, from 1943 to 1948. After this he enrolled in the graduate Philosophy Department of the University of Toronto and received a Ph.D. from the University of Toronto with a dissertation on Medieval Arabic Philosophy (1945) and became Professor of Philosophy (1948–1984). He was among the original Editorial Advisors of the scholarly journal Dionysius. In 1971, he received an honorary doctorate from Sir George Williams University, which later became Concordia University.\n\nFackenheim researched the relationship of the Jews with God, believing that the Holocaust must be understood as an imperative requiring Jews to carry on Jewish existence and the survival of the State of Israel. He emigrated to Israel in 1984.\n\n\"He was always saying that continuing Jewish life and denying Hitler a victory was the 614th law,\" referring to the 613 mitzvot given to the Jews in the Torah.\n\nEmil Fackenheim created this concept and advocated it as what he believed to be the \"614th commandment\" or \"614th \"mitzvah.\"\" The \"614th Commandment\" can be interpreted as a moral imperative that Jews not use the facts of the Holocaust to give up on God, Judaism or—in the case of secular Jews as well—on the continuing survival of the Jewish people, thereby giving Hitler a \"posthumous victory\". The meaning of this imperative has been the subject of serious dialogue both within and beyond the Jewish community. Opposition to the goals of Hitler is a moral touchstone that has implications for several sensitive issues.\n\nTraditional Jewish law contains 613 \"mitzvot\" (commandments) as compiled by Maimonides. These laws—365 of which are negative (e.g. \"Thou shalt not...\") and 248 of which are positive—cover all aspects of life. Fackenheim asserted that tradition could not anticipate the Holocaust, so one more law, a 614th Commandment, became necessary. \"Thou shalt not hand Hitler posthumous victories. To despair of the God of Israel is to continue Hitler's work for him.\" This proposes that people of Jewish heritage have a moral obligation to observe their faith and thus frustrate Hitler's goal of eliminating Judaism from the earth.\n\nFackenheim came to this conclusion slowly. A professor of philosophy at the University of Toronto and a Reform rabbi, he did not become a Zionist until 1967, when his reaction to the Holocaust and its implications for Jewish law crystallized:\n\nIt was at a meeting, just before the Six-Day War. It was a meeting in New York, and I had to make a speech. Before that, the Holocaust had never been essential to my ideology. However, when the chairman said, 'You've got to face it,' I had to face it. I said the most important thing I ever said.\nIn a fuller expression of his sentiment, Fackenheim explains the concept this way:\n\n... we are, first, commanded to survive as Jews, lest the Jewish people perish. We are commanded, secondly, to remember in our very guts and bones the martyrs of the Holocaust, lest their memory perish. We are forbidden, thirdly, to deny or despair of God, however much we may have to contend with him or with belief in him, lest Judaism perish. We are forbidden, finally, to despair of the world as the place which is to become the kingdom of God, lest we help make it a meaningless place in which God is dead or irrelevant and everything is permitted. To abandon any of these imperatives, in response to Hitler's victory at Auschwitz, would be to hand him yet other, posthumous victories.\nIn dialogue about this subject, choice of words is a sensitive matter. Within the Jewish community, many reject Fackenheim's assertion that this could be called a commandment. The Torah already forbids adding additional commandments. Wording that expresses this concept in the form of a commandment may also give offense.\n\nThis becomes a contentious point because references to a \"614th commandment\" are not unique to Fackenheim. This concise term has other shortcomings besides the theological objection. To count this as an addition to Jewish law is an implicit statement that it applies only to Jews. Opposition to the goals of Hitler is a universal concept. Gentiles can respect it by studying the Holocaust and opposing anti-Semitism. In Christian contexts this ideal sometimes appears as the \"11th commandment.\" Christians generally recognize 10 commandments of the Old Testament. This may give unintentional offense to Jews who recognize a different 11th commandment and may lead to confusion with other unrelated ideas that Christians have called an 11th commandment. Jesus stated two commandments: \"Love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, soul, mind and strength.\" and \"Love thy neighbor as thyself.\"\n\nAlthough there is no single formulation that expresses this concept in terms that avoid controversy, \"posthumous victories\" and \"Hitler\" appear in most descriptions.\n\nFackenheim applied this reasoning to the state of Israel and its Law of Return as a necessity to prevent a second Holocaust. Had a Jewish state existed in the 1930s, it could have accepted Jewish refugees and rescued large numbers of people. This opinion carries clout with most Jewish people although the specifics of how to apply it in contemporary politics is a subject of debate. Boris Shusteff invokes it in a conservative opposition to Israeli withdrawal from settlements.\n\nDespite the explicit connection to Zionism, few sources mention Hitler and posthumous victories in reference to Islam. Christian Palestinian Sami A. Aldeeb Abu-Sahlieh of the Swiss Institute of Comparative Law in Lausanne paraphrases it ironically in a defense of Palestinian interests. Where a form of it appears in the \"Asia Times\" as part of a quote from Robert Novak, the cultural resonance appears to go unnoticed.\n\nThe concept encounters broad acceptance in connection with Holocaust remembrance. In the late twentieth century, efforts to document the memories of remaining Holocaust survivors echoed the notion that preserving these facts for future generations was a way to keep Hitler and his ideas in the grave. A guide for British primary school teachers gives the concept in a guide for informing children about the Holocaust. Richard A. Cohen of the University of North Carolina at Charlotte cites it in an essay, \"The Holocaust is a Christian Issue.\"\n\nThe phrase finds resonance within Christian communities as a rebuke against anti-Semitism. Methodist minister Rev. Robert A. Hill quotes Fackenheim in a sermon with this context:\n\n...the fact is that Christianity has been pervasively guilty of latent and patent anti-Semitism and the Gospel of John has been one of its sources. We have and can learn from this failure, by carefully monitoring our use of religious language...and our Jewish brothers and sisters can teach us to continue, with Jacob, to wrestle with God.\n\nWithin the broader context of religious tolerance, this concept applies to the sensitive subjects of conversion and intermarriage. Gregory Baum, a German-born Catholic theologian and Professor Emeritus in Religious Studies at McGill University in Montreal, expresses the effect of this concept on Christian views toward conversion. From the perspective of most Christian faiths, whose doctrines normally advocate conversion of nonbelievers, this represents a deep respect for Fackenheim's concept:\n\nAfter Auschwitz the Christian churches no longer wish to convert the Jews. While they may not be sure of the theological grounds that dispense them from this mission, the churches have become aware that asking the Jews to become Christians is a spiritual way of blotting them out of existence and thus only reinforces the effects of the Holocaust.\n\nFackenheim's affirmation of his Jewish heritage, although embraced by many other Holocaust survivors, was by no means universal. Physicist Lise Meitner had been born and brought up Jewish. She rejected newspaper attempts to characterize her as a Jew following the bombing of Hiroshima when the press learned that she had been the first scientist to recognize nuclear fission. Decades before Hitler rose to power she had become a Lutheran. Although the Nazis stole her savings and ruined her career she refused to work on the bomb or let Hitler define her identity.\n\nIntermarriages between Jews and non-Jews are relatively common in the United States and Canada. Several circumstances complicate these unions from the perspective of the Jewish community. Different movements within Judaism recognize different standards for conversion to Judaism and transmission of their heritage. Social pressure generally falls upon men to marry Jewish women because all movements recognize a Jewish woman's offspring as Jews.\n\nA puzzling twist to this controversy is the fact, apparently not well known, that Prof. Fackenheim himself was intermarried, and the Jewishness of one of his children was rejected by an Israeli Orthodox court, even though that son was converted via Orthodox ritual as a child, and is a citizen of Israel. (See, \"Rabbinical Court casts doubt on conversion of son of famed Jewish theologian\" in the Jerusalem Post, January 19, 2009).\n\nAccording to this news article, his wife converted to Judaism some time after the marriage. Jews using Fackenheim's admonition not to give posthumous victories to Hitler as a reason to dissuade people from intermarrying are apparently not aware that Fackenheim was himself intermarried.\n\nRabbi Toba Spitzer finds this idea compelling yet incomplete. In a Passover essay for SocialAction.com she addresses it sympathetically before embracing the Passover tradition and its Seder ritual as a more meaningful story:\n\n...of a people born in slavery, freed by their God, and taken on a transformational journey. It is the story of the steps taken towards becoming a community bound by a holy covenant, where social relationships are defined by the Godly principles of \"tzedek\" and \"chesed\", justice and love.\nRabbi Marc Gellman rejects it outright in a 2005 \"Newsweek\" column:\n\nI am Jewish because my mother is Jewish, and, more importantly, because I believe Judaism is loving, just, joyous, hopeful and true. I am not Jewish, and I did not teach my children or my students to be Jewish, just to spite Hitler.\nThe same criticism was formulated by Jewish philosopher Michael Wyschogrod in his 1971 review of \"God's Presence in History\". Wyschogrod questioned the value of a definition of Judaism that merely inverts antisemitism into a bigoted \"semitism.\" The uniqueness of Auschwitz as a historical event, moreover, is a dubious distinction. \"It is necessary to recognize that, from any universally humanistic framework, the destruction of European Jewry is one notable chapter in the long record of man's inhumanity against man.\" Not satisfied with criticism, however, Wyschogrod offered a traditional explanation of the Jewish claim to uniqueness and chosenness formulated in positive terms.\n\nThe fate of Israel is of central concern because Israel is the elect people of God through whom God's redemptive work is done in the world. However tragic human suffering is on the human plane, what happens to Israel is directly tied to its role as that nation to which God attaches His name and through which He will redeem man. He who strikes Israel, therefore, engages himself in battle with God and it is for this reason that the history of Israel is the fulcrum of human history. The suffering of others must, therefore, be seen in the light of Israel's suffering. The travail of man is not abandoned, precisely because Israel suffers and, thereby, God's presence is drawn into human history and redemption enters the horizon of human existence.\n\nFocusing not on Fackenheim's conception of Jewish identity but on Zionism, renowned scholar Daniel Shoag presents a critique of this view from within the Jewish community in \"The Harvard Israel Review\":\n\nWhile Fackenheim's sentiments about the need for Jewish self-reliance in the form of a Jewish state are immensely popular, Fackenheim fails to locate a religious or divine source for his moral imperative. For Fackenheim, self-defense, and its manifestation in Zionism, are not religious values but rather things that precede religious value or stand outside of it. Thus Fackenheim locates the significance of the Jewish State in the Holocaust rather than in traditional Judaism...\n\nPerhaps the strongest rejection of Fackenheim's idea of the 614th commandment comes from Rabbi Harold M. Schulweiss:\n\nWe abuse the Holocaust when it becomes a cudgel against others who have their claims of suffering. The Shoah must not be misused in the contest of one-downsmanship with other victims of brutality. ... The Shoah has become our instant \"raison d'etre\", the short-cut answer to the penetrating questions of our children: 'Why should I not marry out of the faith? Why should I join a synagogue? Why should I support Israel? Why should I be Jewish?' We have relied on a singular imperative: 'Thou shalt not give Hitler a posthumous victory.' That answer will not work. To live in spite, to say 'no' to Hitler is a far cry from living 'yes' to Judaism.\nRabbi Michael Goldberg has developed this sort of criticism in his book \"Why Should the Jews Survive?: Looking Past the Holocaust Toward a Jewish Future.\"\n\nDuring Fackenheim's last interview in 2000 he confronted the question, \"Do you think Israel can ever come to the point where it doesn't have to be in a state of resistance?\"\n\nI think it will be a very long time. But I would say this. Will the time ever come when we can say Hitler's shadow is gone? I think, yes, it will come when Israel is accepted in peace with its neighbor states. But it doesn't look like it will happen soon.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24792410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24792410", "title": "Eugenios Voulgaris", "text": "Eugenios Voulgaris\n\nEugenios Voulgaris or Boulgaris (, , 1716–1806) was a Greek scholar, prominent Greek Orthodox educator, and bishop of Kherson (in Ukraine). Writing copiously on theology, philosophy and the sciences, he disseminated western European thought throughout the Greek and eastern Christian world, and was a leading contributor to the Modern Greek Enlightenment.\n\nHe was born on the island of Corfu, ruled by the Republic of Venice in this time, as Eleftherios Vulgares on 10 August 1716. He studied in Corfu under Vikentios Damodos, a scholar, and continued his studies in the \"School of Ioannina\" (in western Greece) under Athanasios Psalidas.\n\nIn 1737 or 1738 he became a monk and presbyter with the name Eugenios, and afterwards went to the University of Padua to study theology, philosophy, European languages and natural sciences.\n\nIn 1742, Boulgaris became director of an important school of Ioannina, the Maroutsaia. There he was involved in a public dispute with Balanos Vasilopoulos, who was the director of another high level school of the city, regarding the curricula of their respective schools – Voulgaris arguing for the institution of natural philosophy.\n\nFrom 1753 to 1759 Voulgaris was director of the Athonite Academy (\"Athoniada Akademia\") at Vatopedi Monastery aiming at upgrading the level of studies. There he taught philosophy as well as mathematics. Though he was considered one of the most eminent teachers, his eagerness to communicate some of the new ideas of the western European 'Enlightenment' caused a negative reaction among some Orthodox Christian leaders on Mount Athos. He was eventually forced to abandon the school in the beginning of 1759.\n\nHe then temporarily headed the Patriarchal Academy in Constantinople (known to Greeks as the \"Great School of the Nation\"). However, in 1761 he permanently abandoned his educational career.\n\nAlthough Eugenios was associated by some Orthodox Christians with the unsuccessful attempt to found a Western-style academy on Mt. Athos and at the Patriarchal Academy, he was also a strong opponent of Uniate and Roman Catholic proselytising among other Christians; and in his correspondence with Pierre Leclerc, the French Catholic Jansenist theologian sympathetic to Orthodox Christian traditions, he says that since the time of the Schism Orthodox Christians have been blessed with many saints and martyrs equal to the ancients and with a bounty of miracles: \"Our Church is continuously glorified and made wondrous by God, no less after the Schism than before it, and up to our times\" \"(Epistle of Eugenios Voulgaris to Pierre Leclerc, first edition, by Andreas Koromelas [Athens, 1844], p. 68)\".\n\nAfter his unsuccessful attempts to introduce Enlightenment ideas to the \"Athonite School\" and \"Patriarchal Academy\" Eugenios accepted the patronage of the Russian Empress Catherine II, and spent the rest of his career in Russia. In 1763 he went to Leipzig and Berlin at the invitation of Empress Catherine. In 1771 he arrived at St. Petersburg, and between 1772 and 1774 worked as a librarian at the court.\n\nIn 1775 he was ordained archbishop, and became the first bishop of the newly created Eparchy (Diocese) of Slaviansk and Cherson.\nThe new diocese included lands of the Novorossiya and Azov Governorates north of the Black Sea, recently conquered by Russia from the Ottoman Crimean Khanate. \nAlong with Russians and Ukrainians Orthodox Greeks were invited to settle in the region, and the Imperial Government thought it appropriate to appoint a Greek-speaking bishop to preside over the new diocese. Despite its name, the seat of the bishop was in neither Slaviansk (soon to be renamed Nikopol) nor Kherson, but in the more centrally located city of Poltava; where the Monastery of the Exaltation of the Cross (, \"Krestovozdvizhensky Monastyr\") became the bishop's residence. The following year (1776), Eugenios invited another Corfiot, Nikephoros Theotokis, to join him in Poltava, and started training the younger Greek as his successor. In 1779, Eugenios retired, although he continued to live in the same monastery in Poltava, while Nicephoros took over the diocese.\nIn 1787 Boulgaris was allowed to move to St. Petersburg. From 1801 until the end of his life the retired bishop lived there in Alexander Nevsky Lavra. In 1788 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society.\n\nHe died on 12 June 1806, and was buried in the Lavra's Church of St. Theodor (\"Fyodorovskaya Tserkov\")\n\nThe 18th century dawned in the Greek East with Orthodox Christians estranged from both groups of western Christians. While they remained largely uninvolved in dialogue with western Christians until the 19th century, they nevertheless grappled with new intellectual challenges emanating from the west in the form of secular learning. In this period Eugenios Voulgaris was one of the most influential Greek writers. Although he was strictly an Orthodox Christian, he tried to convey the ideas of this western European Enlightenment to Greek Orthodox cultural circles, through translations and teaching of the works of John Locke, Voltaire, and Christian Wolff. Voulgaris' model for the revival and development of learning in Orthodox Christian society included the maintenance of training in the classics combined with an exposure to modern European philosophy.\n\nThe discussion on the Greek language question began at the end of the 18th century. Because western Europeans were familiar with, and valued, the ancient Greek language, Eugenios Voulgaris, along with Lambros Photiadis, Stephanos Commitas (1770–1832) and Neophytos Doukas, proposed that the modern Greek language should be archaised and assimilated to Ancient Greek, while his students Iosipos Moisiodax (1725–1800) and Dimitrios Katartzis (c. 1725–1807) preferred the use of the contemporary vernacular language as it had evolved (Dimotiki). This discussion would become crucial when it was to be decided which form should be the official language of the modern Greek state.\n\nThe humanist scholar Adamantios Korais (1748–1833) also influenced this discussion. While supporting the language of the people, Korais sought to 'cleanse' it from elements that he considered 'vulgar' and evolved the 'purifying' or Katharevousa forms, which were supposedly set at some midpoint between ancient and contemporary Greek.\n\nIn his \"Treatise on Euthanasia\" (1804), Bishop Eugenios tried to moderate the fear of death by exalting the power of faith and trust in the divine providence, and by presenting death as a universal necessity, a curative physician and a safe harbour. He presented his views in the form of a consoling sermon, enriched with references to classical texts, the Bible and the Church Fathers, as well as to secular sources, including statistics from contemporary Britain and France. Besides \"euthanasia\" he introduced terms such as \"dysthanasia\" (δυσθανασία), \"etoimothanasia\" (ἑτοιμοθανασία) and \"prothanasia\" (προθανασία). The \"Treatise on Euthanasia\" is one of the first books, if not the very first, devoted to euthanasia in modern European thought, and a remarkable text for the study of developing attitudes towards \"good death\". In the Treatise 'euthanasia' is clearly meant as a spiritual preparation and reconciliation with dying rather than the physician-related mercy-killing that the term came to mean during the 19th and the 20th centuries. This text has been studied not only by the historian of medical or religious ethics, but by many trying to confront death, in private or professional settings.\n\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "33148440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33148440", "title": "Francis Skidmore", "text": "Francis Skidmore\n\nFrancis Alfred Skidmore (1817 – 13 November 1896) was a British metalworker best known for high-profile commissions, including the glass and metal roof of the Oxford University Museum of Natural History (1859), the Hereford Cathedral choir screen (1862) and the Albert Memorial (1866–73) in London.\nSkidmore was heavily influenced by Gothic Revival style, a movement characterised by its use of medieval designs and styles. He was a member of both the Oxford Architectural Society and the Ecclesiological Society, two organisations which endorsed the Gothic Revival style. Skidmore also worked closely with architect Sir George Gilbert Scott.\n\nFrancis Alfred Skidmore was born in Birmingham, the son of Francis Skidmore, a jeweller. The Skidmore family moved to Coventry around 1822, possibly because Coventry was an important watchmaking centre. Skidmore learned metalworking from his father and completed a seven-year apprenticeship with him. In 1845, father and son registered as silversmiths under the name F. Skidmore and son. Their early work as silversmiths consisted primarily of church plate. The earliest known examples of Skidmore's work includes three silver chalices made for St John the Baptist's Church, Coventry (1845), St Giles, Exhall (1845) and St Alkmund's, Derbyshire (1846).\n\nThe 1850s were an important period in the development and expansion of Skidmore's career as a metalworker and craftsman. At the Great Exhibition of 1851, he exhibited church plate, including a silver gilt and enamelled chalice now on display at the Victoria and Albert Museum. The recognition he received at the Exhibition helped to stimulate his business and he soon expanded, beginning to produce other church furnishings including items in iron, brass and wood.\nIn 1851, he also received commissions to produce gas lighting in St Michael's Church, Coventry. Skidmore's firm also installed gas lighting in St Mary's Guildhall and Holy Trinity Church, both also in Coventry. At Holy Trinity Church, some of his ironwork, wooden pews and gas lamp standards are still in situ.\n\nIt was also in the 1850s that Skidmore met Sir George Gilbert Scott, a prominent architect, designer and proponent of Gothic Revival. Although Skidmore produced works for a variety of people, it was his long lasting, working relationship with Scott which resulted in several notable commissions. Skidmore worked with Scott on the Lichfield, Hereford and Salisbury cathedral screens and the Albert Memorial in London.\n\nNear the end of his life, Skidmore's eyesight began to deteriorate and he was disabled after being hit by a carriage in London. His final years were spent in poverty in Eagle Street, Coventry.\n\nSkidmore died on 13 November 1896 and was buried in London Road Cemetery, Coventry. He was survived by his widow, Emma, and their four children: Francis Sidney, Bernard, Evangeline and Kenneth. In 2000, a memorial plaque was installed at the site of Skidmore's Alma Street factory in Hillfields.\n\nDuring his lifetime, Francis Skidmore created works for 24 cathedrals, over 300 parish churches, 15 colleges and a number of public buildings.\n\nSkidmore, Families of the Bl\n\nack Country and Birmingham 1600–1900\n\nSome of his more prominent works are detailed below.\n\nBetween 1855 and 1861 Sir George Gilbert Scott restored parts of Lichfield Cathedral. Francis Skidmore and John Birnie Philip produced the new Victorian metal screen designed by Scott.\n\nBetween 1864 and 1874 Sir George Gilbert Scott did extensive work in Worcester cathedral, mainly in the choir. Part of this was to commission a screen from Skidmore, installed in 1873 and still in place. It is rather less elaborate than the ones at Hereford and Lichfield.\n\nThe Hereford Screen was designed by Sir George Gilbert Scott and made by Francis Skidmore. It was made in a period of only four months. To complete such a large and complex structure in only four months, Skidmore took 'short cuts' and used mass production techniques. Skidmore displayed it at the International Exhibition of 1862 where it won a medal for its superior design and craftsmanship.\n\nThe screen was dismantled and removed from the cathedral in 1967. The Herbert Art Gallery & Museum in Coventry purchased the screen, but was unable to restore or display it, so in 1983 it was transferred to the Victoria and Albert Museum. Before conservation, the screen was in almost 14,000 individual pieces, many of which were in very poor condition. Conservation of the screen took thirteen months and cost over £800,000 which is, as of September 2011, the largest conservation project undertaken by the V&A. The Hereford Choir Screen is now on display at the V&A.\n\nSir George Gilbert Scott led the restoration of Salisbury Cathedral between 1863 – 1878. It was during this time that Skidmore created the cathedral's choir screen. In 1959, the screen was removed and most of it was destroyed. The chancel gates survived and are now in the collections of the Victoria and Albert Museum. As of September 2011, they are on display in the Ironwork gallery, room 114a.\n\n"}
{"id": "3051970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3051970", "title": "Hoel", "text": "Hoel\n\nKing Hoel (,  \"Hoel the Great\"; ), also known as Sir Howel and Saint Hywel, was a late 5th- and early 6th-century member of the ruling dynasty of Cornouaille. He may have ruled Cornouaille jointly after the restoration of his father, Budic II of Brittany, but he seems to have predeceased his father and left his young son, Tewdwr, as Budic's heir. \n\nHywel appears in Welsh mythology and the Matter of Britain as a \"king of Brittany\". A relative of Arthur, he was one of his most loyal allies (or, sometimes, knights) and was said to have helped him conquer \"Gaul\" (northern France).\n\nThe historical Hoel was the son of Budic II, king of Cornouaille in northwest Brittany. For all or most of his childhood, a usurping cousin ruled in Budic's place and the family resided in exile with Aergol Lawhir, king of Dyfed in sub-Roman Britain. He was credited with the foundation of Llanhowell (now in Llanrhian) during this time and, as \"Saint Hywel\", was revered by a local cult as its patron saint. The family was eventually restored to their home in Cornouaille, where Hoel may have ruled jointly with his father. He died shortly before he would have inherited the throne, however, and Budic's attempts to enlist his neighbor Macliau's support for the succession of Hoel's son Tewdwr ended badly. After Budic's death, Macliau invaded and the boy was forced into exile in Penwith.\n\nWhile early Welsh sources say he was the son of Budic II, in later legend he evolves into the son of \"Emyr Llydaw\" and sometimes also the father of Tudwal. David Nash Ford was of the opinion that \"Emyr Llydaw\" was a title of Budic's—\"emperor of Brittany\"—eventually mistaken for a name in its own right.)\n\nAs a son of Budic, he was recorded as a nephew of Arthur. He was said to have visited Arthur's court during his early exile and to have returned to help Arthur against the Saxons after the family's restoration in Brittany. Landing at Southampton, his army was credited with assisting Arthur at the Battle of Dubglas, the Siege of Caer Ebrauc (i.e. York), and the Battle of Cat Celidon Coit. It was then bottled up and besieged in turn at Dumbarton Castle (\"Caer-Brithon\"). Hoel was also said to have been at the Battle of Badon before conquering France for Arthur, who then moved his court to Paris. Finally returning to Brittany, he was aided by Tristram of Lyonesse in suppressing a civil war.\n\nHoel was eventually turned into \"Sir Howel\" of the Round Table. He appears thus in medieval Welsh sources like \"The Dream of Rhonabwy\", \"Geraint and Enid\", and \"Peredur son of Efrawg\".\n\nA conflation of the two appears prominently in Geoffrey of Monmouth's pseudohistorical \"Historia Regum Britanniae\", where Hoel comes from Brittany to help suppress the revolts which arise after Arthur's coronation. A respected ruler and capable general, his relationship with Arthur is uncertain: he first appears as the son of Budic II of Brittany and a sister of Ambrosius Aurelianus and Uther Pendragon, making his Arthur's first cousin, but appears later as the son of Budic and Arthur's sister Anna, making him Arthur's nephew. (This confusion reappears in Wace and Layamon but most later sources make him Arthur's \"cousin\".) In Geoffrey, Hoel's niece is raped and killed by the Giant of Mont Saint-Michel; Arthur sets off to slay him with Sir Kay and Bedivere. Arthur returns to fight his traitorous nephew Mordred and leaves Hoel in charge of \"Gaul\". Hoel later joins the Round Table and leaves his nephew Joseph in charge of his kingdom.\n\nHoel was later attached to the Tristan and Iseult legend by such poets as Béroul and Thomas of Britain. In these stories, Hoel is duke of Brittany and the father of Tristan's unloved wife, Iseult. Hoel takes Tristan in when the young knight has been banished from the kingdom of king Mark of Cornwall, and Tristan later helps him in battle and becomes fast friends with his son Kahedin and his daughter Iseult. Tristan convinces himself to marry this second Iseult, mostly because she shares the name of his first love, Iseult of Ireland. In early versions of the story, Tristan remains in Hoel's land until he dies of poison minutes before Iseult of Ireland, a great healer, arrives to cure him. The Prose Tristan has the hero returning to Britain and to his first love, never to see his wife again. This version was followed by the Post-Vulgate Cycle and by Thomas Malory's \"Death of Arthur\".\n\nLlanhowell in Llanrhian, Pembrokeshire, Wales, is named in his honor. Llanllowell in Monmouthshire originally was as well, although it is now considered dedicated to Saint Llywel. The present parish church at Llanhowell (\"\") was largely refurbished in the 1890s but includes sections dating as early as the 12th century. It is listed as a Grade II* protected building.\n\n"}
{"id": "89896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=89896", "title": "Irish Travellers", "text": "Irish Travellers\n\nIrish Travellers (, meaning 'the walking people') are a traditionally itinerant ethnic group who maintain a set of traditions. Although predominantly English-speaking, some also use Shelta and other similar cants. They live mostly in Ireland as well as comprising large communities in the United Kingdom and the United States. Their origin is disputed. Traveller rights groups have long pushed for ethnic status from the Irish government, finally succeeding in 2017.\n\nAs of 2016, there are 30,987 Travellers within Ireland, and this has led to them becoming recognized as a minority group in Ireland.\n\nTravellers refer to themselves as \"Minkiers\" or \"Pavees\", or in Irish as (\"the travelling people\").\n\nThe historical origins of Irish Travellers as a distinct group is still unknown. It continues to be the subject of academic and popular debate. Research has been complicated by the fact that the group appears to have no written records of its own.\n\nDeeper documentation of Shelta and the Travellers dates to the 1830s, but knowledge of Irish Travellers has been seen from the 1100s, as well as the 1500s-1800s. Many decrees against begging in England were directed at Travellers, passed by King Edward VI around 1551. One such decree was the “Acte for tynckers and pedlers”. Travellers make up a minority group of Ireland who are nomadic. They have a metalwork culture that dates to pre-Celtic arrival. The identity of Irish Travellers resembles other nomadic communities, some aspects being self-employment, family networks, birth, marriage, and burial rituals, taboos and folklore. Because they worked with metal, Travellers had to travel throughout Ireland and work on making various items ranging from ornaments, jewelry, or horse harnesses to make a living. As a result, by 1175 they were referred to as “tinkler,” “tynkere,” or Tinkers as well as Gypsies all of which are derogative names to refer to their nomadic way of life.\n\nMany different theories have been put forward to explain the origins of Ireland's nomadic populations. A suggestion that they might be of Romani extraction is not supported by genetic evidence, which finds no connection to Romani groups. One idea is of them being distantly related to a Celtic group that invaded Ireland.Another theory is of a pre-Gaelic origin, where Travellers are descended from a community that lived in Ireland before the arrival of the Celts. Once Ireland was claimed as Celtic, this group was seen as lower class. There is also a theory that an indigenous, nomadic, community of craftsmen are the ancestors of Travellers, and they never settled down like the Celts. Other speculations on their origin are that they were descended from those Irish who were made homeless during the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland in the 1650s, or made homeless in either the 1741 or the 1840s famine due to eviction. Genetic research has ruled these events out as the founding events for Travellers, however it cannot rule out the displacement of the population along with most of the Irish population during these events.\n\nIt has since been recognised that no single explanation is likely to be adequate in answering this complex question. Current scholarship is investigating the background of Gaelic Ireland before the English Tudor conquest. The mobile nature and traditions of a Gaelic society based on pastoralism rather than land tenure before this event implies that Travellers represent descendants of the Gaelic social order marginalised during the change-over to an English landholding society. An early example of this mobile element in the population, and how displacement of clans can lead to increased nomadism within aristocratic warrior societies, is that of the Clan Murtough O' Connors, displaced after the Norman invasion.\n\nPresent genetic evidence indicates that they are genetically Irish. In 2011, researchers at the Royal College of Surgeons in Dublin and the University of Edinburgh analyzed DNA samples from 40 Travellers. The study provided evidence that Irish Travellers are a distinct Irish ethnic minority, who have been distinct from the settled Irish community for at least 1000 years; the report claimed that they are as distinct from the settled community as Icelanders are from Norwegians. This apparent distance though may be the effect of genetic drift within a small homogeneous population and may therefore exaggerate the distance between the two populations.\nA genetic analysis of Irish Travellers found evidence to support: (1) Irish ancestry; (2) several distinct subpopulations; and (3) the distinctiveness of the midland counties due to Viking influence.\n\nIn 2017 a further genetic study using profiles of 50 Irish Travellers, 143 European Roma, 2232 settled Irish, 2039 British and 6255 European or worldwide individuals confirmed ancestral origin within the general Irish population. An estimated time of divergence between the settled population and Travellers was set at a minimum of 8 generations ago, with generations at 30 years, hence 240 years and a maximum of 14 generations or 420 years ago. The best fit was estimated at 360 years ago, giving an approximate date in the 1650s. This date coincides remarkably well with the final destruction of Gaelic society following the 1641 Rebellion and during the Wars of the Three Kingdoms in which Cromwell's forces devastated the country.\n\nIrish Travellers are not an entirely homogeneous group instead reflecting some of the variation also seen in the settled population. Four distinct genetic clusters were identified in the 2017 study, and these match social groupings within the community.\n\nGenetic studies by Miriam Murphy, David Croke, and other researchers identified certain genetic diseases such as galactosemia that are more common in the Irish Traveller population, involving identifiable allelic mutations that are rarer among the rest of the community.\n\nTwo main hypotheses have arisen, speculating whether:\nThey concluded that: \"The fact that Q188R is the sole mutant allele among the Travellers as compared to the non-Traveller group may be the result of a founder effect in the isolation of a small group of the Irish population from their peers as founders of the Traveller sub-population. This would favour the second, endogenous, hypothesis of Traveller origins.\"\n\nMore specifically, they found that Q188R was found in 100% of Traveller samples, and in 89% of other Irish samples, indicating that the Traveller group was typical of the larger Irish population.\n\nIrish Travellers speak English and sometimes one of two dialects of Shelta, Gammon (or Gamin) and Irish Traveller Cant. Shelta has been dated back to the 18th century, but may be older. Cant, which derives from Irish, is a combination of English and Shelta.\n\nThe Irish Traveller Gammon language, commonly known as Cant, consists of Romani words. writes that the Irish Traveller Gammon vocabulary is derived from pre-13th-century Gaelic idioms with ten percent Indian origin Romani language vocabulary. Since Shelta is a mixture of English and Irish grammar, the etymology is not straightforward. The language is made up mostly of Irish lexicon, being classified as a grammar-lexicon language with the grammar being English-based. Gaelic language expert Kuno Meyer and Romani language linguist John Sampson both asserted that Shelta existed as far back as the 13th century, 300 years before the first Romani populations arrived in Ireland or Britain. \n\nShelta is a secret language. Travellers do not like to share the language with outsiders, named “Buffers”, or non-travellers. When speaking Shelta in front of Buffers, Travellers will disguise the structure so as to make it seem like they aren't speaking Shelta at all. There is fear that if outsiders know the entirety of the language, it will be used to bring further discrimination to the Traveller community.\n\nThere was no specific state focus on Travellers prior to the establishment of the Irish republic in 1949. Issues with mobile sections of the population came under loosely defined vagrancy laws, ultimately of English origin. In 1959 the 1959–63 government of Ireland established a \"Commission on Itinerancy\" in response to calls to deal with the \"itinerant problem\". This was made up of senior representatives of the Irish state, judges, Gardaí, religious organisations and numerous farming lobby groups such as Macra na Feirme. The Commission had no Traveller representatives, neither were they consulted. The Commission had the following terms of reference:\n\nThe Commission's 1963 report defined \"itinerant\" as \"a person who had no fixed place of abode and habitually wandered from place to place, but excluding travelling show-people and travelling entertainers\". It recommended assimilation of travellers by settling them in fixed dwellings, viewing the Netherlands' approach to its travelling minority as a model. This assimilation was to be achieved by the effective criminalisation of nomadism, and the report paved the way for an increasing state emphasis on criminal laws and penalties for trespass.\n\nAt the time, about 60% Irish travellers lived in barrel-roofed horse-drawn wagons, with almost 40% still using tents in summer (fewer in winter).\n\nThe Travelling People Review Body (1981–83) advocated integration rather than assimilation, with provision for serviced halting sites. The Body's membership included travellers. The Task Force on the Travelling Community (1993–95) moved to an intercultural paradigm.\n\nThe 2016 census in the Republic of Ireland reported the number of Irish Travellers as 30,987, up from 29,495 in 2011. In 2006 the number was 22,369. A further 1,700 to 2,000 were estimated to live in Northern Ireland.\n\nFrom the 2006 Irish census it was determined that 20,975 dwell in urban areas and 1,460 were living in rural areas. With an overall population of just 0.5% some areas were found to have a higher proportion, with Travellers constituting 7.71% of the population in Tuam, Galway. There were found to be 9,301 Travellers in the 0–14 age range, comprising 41.5% of the Traveller population, and a further 3,406 of them were in the 15–24 age range, comprising 15.2%. Children of age range 0–17 comprised 48.7% of the Traveller population.\n\nFollowing the findings of the All Ireland Traveller Health Study (estimates for 2008), the figure for Northern Ireland was revised to 3,905 and that for the Republic to 36,224.\n\nIn 2011, for the first time, the census category \"Irish Traveller\" was introduced as part of the broader Gypsy/Traveller section. The self reported figure for collective Gypsy/Traveller or Irish Traveller populations were 63,193 but estimates of Travellers living in Great Britain range between 15,000 as part of a total estimation of 300,000 Romani and other Traveller groups in the UK.\n\nThe London Boroughs of Harrow and Brent contain significant Irish Traveller populations. In addition to those on various official sites there are a number who are settled in local authority housing. These are mostly women who wish their children to have a chance at a good education. They and the children may or may not travel in the summer but remain in close contact with the wider Traveller community.\n\nThere are also a number of Irish Traveller communities in the Home Counties.\n\nAn estimated 10,000 people in the United States are descendants of Travellers who left Ireland, mostly between 1845 and 1860 during the Great Famine. However, there are no official population figures regarding Irish Travellers in the United States as the US census does not recognise them as an ethnic group. While some sources estimate their population in the US to be 10,000, others suggest their population is 40,000. According to research published in 1992, Irish travellers in the US divide themselves up into groups that are based on historical residence: Ohio Travellers, Georgia Travellers, Texas Travellers, and Mississippi Travellers. The Georgia Travelers' camp is made up of about eight hundred families, the Mississippi Travelers, about three hundred families, and the Texas Travelers, under fifty families.\"\n\nThe largest and most affluent population of about 2,500 lives in Murphy Village, outside of the town of North Augusta, South Carolina. Other communities exist in Memphis, Tennessee, Hernando, Mississippi, and near White Settlement, Texas, where the families stay in their homes during the winter, and leave during the summer, while smaller enclaves can be found across Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi.\n\nTravellers in the US are said to speak English and Shelta, a form of Cant. The Cant spoken in the US is similar to the Cant spoken in Ireland, but differs in some respects in that the language has transformed into a type of pidgin English over the generations. They typically work in asphalting, spray-painting, laying linoleum, or as itinerant workers to earn their living.\n\nTravellers have a distinctive approach to religion; the vast majority are practising Roman Catholics with particular attention paid to issues of healing. They have been known to follow a strict code of behaviour that dictates some of their moral beliefs and influences their actions.\n\nTraveller children often grow up outside educational systems. The Irish Traveller Movement, a community advocacy group, promotes equal access to education for Traveller children.\n\nIn December 2010, the Irish Equality Tribunal ruled in favour of a traveller child in an anti-discrimination suit covering the admission practices of CBS High School Clonmel in County Tipperary. In July 2011, the secondary school in Clonmel successfully appealed the decision of the Equality Tribunal that its admission criteria were indirectly discriminatory against children from the Traveller community.\n\nThe health of Irish Travellers is significantly poorer than that of the general population in Ireland. This is evidenced in a 2007 report published in Ireland, which states that over half of Travellers do not live past the age of 39 years. (By comparison median life expectancy in Ireland is 81.5 years.) Another government report of 1987 found:\n\nFrom birth to old age, they have high mortality rates, particularly from accidents, metabolic and congenital problems, but also from other major causes of death. Female Travellers have especially high mortality compared to settled women.\n\nIn 2007, the Department of Health and Children in the Republic of Ireland, in conjunction with the Department of Health, Social Services and Public Safety in Northern Ireland, commissioned the University College Dublin's School of Public Health and Population Science to conduct a major cross-border study of Travellers' welfare. The study, including a detailed census of Traveller population and an examination of their health status, was expected to take up to three years to complete. The main results of the study were published in 2010.\n\nThe birth rate of Irish Travellers has decreased since the 1990s, but they still have one of the highest birth rates in Europe. The birth rate for the Traveller community for the year 2005 was 33.32 per 1,000, possibly the highest birth rate recorded for any community in Europe.\n\nOn average there are ten times more driving fatalities within the Traveller community. At 22%, this represents the most common cause of death among Traveller males. Some 10% of Traveller children die before their second birthday, compared to just 1% of the general population. In Ireland, 2.6% of all deaths in the total population were for people aged under 25, versus 32% for the Travellers. In addition, 80% of Travellers die before the age of 65.\n\nAccording to the National Traveller Suicide Awareness Project, Traveller men are over six times more likely to kill themselves than the general population.\n\nTeenage marriage is common among Irish Travellers. Couples tend to marry very young. According to Judith Okely, \"there is no large time spans between puberty and marriage\" of Travellers. Okely wrote in 1983 that the typical marriage age for females was 16–17 and the typical marriage age for males was 18–19. the average age of an Irish Traveller was 22.4 and 52.2% were aged under 20. Yet only 252 15–19-year-old enumerated Irish Travellers identified themselves as married. In contrast, the Department of the Environment, Community and Local Government (DEHLG) in \"definition of a family includes unmarried Traveller men over 18 as a unit\" because, according to Abdalla et al., \"it is understood that they will marry at this age and require an additional unit of accommodation.\" Irish Travellers generally marry other Irish Travellers. Consanguineous marriage is common among Irish Travellers.\n\nIrish Travellers lived as cohabiters who \"married at one time without religious or civil ceremony.\" Into the early 20th century about one-third of Irish Travellers were \"married according to the law.\"\n\nAccording to Christopher Griffin, arranged Irish Traveller marriages in the early 21st century \"safeguard the girl's by securing a man who won't mistreat her.\"\nAccording to Julie Bindel, in \"Standpoint\", some Irish Traveller females in the UK are forced into marriages, but Bindel points out that data is difficult to obtain because \"the line between an arranged marriage and a forced one is not always clear.\"\n\nTravellers are often reported as the subject of explicit political and cultural discrimination, with politicians being elected on promises to block Traveller housing in local communities and individuals frequently refused service in pubs, shops and hotels.\n\nA 2011 survey by the Economic and Social Research Institute of Ireland concluded that there is widespread ostracism of Travellers in Ireland, and the report concluded that it could hurt the long-term prospects for Travellers, who \"need the intercultural solidarity of their neighbours in the settled community. ... They are too small a minority, i.e., 0.5 percent, to survive in a meaningful manner without ongoing and supportive personal contact with their fellow citizens in the settled community.\" The general prejudice against Travellers hinders efforts by the central government to integrate Travellers into Irish society. Because Travellers are a minority group within Ireland and the United Kingdom, they have always faced discrimination on the basis of their ethnicity as Travellers. They experience discrimination in not having equal access to education, being denied service in pubs, shops, and hotels, and being subject to derogatory language.\n\nIn 2016, the USA's Country Reports on Human Rights Practices for the United Kingdom stated that Irish Travellers (among other groups) widely reported discrimination in the country, and highlighted that the High Court had ruled the government had illegally discriminated against Travellers by unlawfully subjecting planning applications to special scrutiny.\n\nTravellers are often referred to by the terms \"tinkers\", \"gipsies/gypsies\", \"itinerants\", or, pejoratively, \"knackers\" in Ireland. Some of these terms refer to services that were traditionally provided by the group: tinkering or tinsmithing, for example, being the mending of tinware such as pots and pans, and knackering being the acquisition of dead or old horses for slaughter. The term \"gypsy\" first appears in records dating back to the 16th century when it was originally used to refer to the continental Romani people in England and Scotland, who were mistakenly thought to be Egyptian. Other derogatory names for itinerant groups have been used to refer to Travellers including the word \"pikey\".\n\nAccording to the 2002 Irish census, \"the labour force participation rate for male Travellers (72%) slightly exceeded that for total males (70%) while the rate for female Travellers (38%) was considerably below that for females in general (47%). Unemployment among male Travellers measured 73 percent according to the self-assessed principal economic status question on the census form. The national measure of unemployment for males on a comparable basis was 9.4 per cent according to the 2002 census results. Corresponding rates for females were 63 percent for female Travellers and 8 percent for the female population overall.\"\nMany Travellers are breeders of dogs such as greyhounds or lurchers and have a long-standing interest in horse trading. The main fairs associated with them are held annually at Ballinasloe (County Galway), Puck Fair (County Kerry), Ballabuidhe Horse Fair (County Cork), the twice yearly Smithfield Horse Fair (Dublin inner city) and Appleby (England). They are often involved in dealing scrap metals, e.g., 60% of the raw material for Irish steel is sourced from scrap metal, approximately 50% (75,000 metric tonnes) segregated by the community at a value of more than £1.5 million. Such percentages for more valuable non-ferrous metals may be significantly greater.\n\nSince the majority of Irish Travellers' employment is either self-employment or wage labour, income and financial status varies greatly from family to family. Many families choose not to reveal the specifics of their finances, but when explained it is very difficult to detect any sort of pattern or regular trend of monthly or weekly income. To detect their financial status many look to the state of the possessions: their trailer, motor vehicle, domestic utensils, and any other valuables.\n\nIrish Travellers are recognised in British and Irish law as an ethnic group. An ethnic group is defined as one whose members identify with each other, usually on the basis of a presumed common genealogy or ancestry. Ethnic identity is also marked by the recognition from others of a group's distinctiveness and by common cultural, linguistic, religious, behavioural or biological traits.\n\nThe European Parliament Committee of Enquiry on Racism and Xenophobia found them to be among the most discriminated-against ethnic groups in Ireland and yet their status remains insecure in the absence of widespread legal endorsement. Travellers are often viewed by settled people in a negative light, perceived as insular, anti-social, 'drop-outs' and 'misfits', or believed to be involved in criminal and mendicant behaviour, or settling illegally on land owned by others.\n\nThe Commission on Itinerancy, appointed in Ireland in 1960 under Charles Haughey, found that \"public brawling fuelled by excessive drinking further added to settled people's fear of Travellers ... feuding was felt to be the result of a dearth of pastimes and [of] illiteracy, historically comparable to features of rural Irish life before the Famine].\"\n\nIn 2008 a faction fight riot broke out in D'Alton Park, Mullingar involving up to 65 people of the Nevin, Dinnegan and McDonagh families. The court hearing in 2010 resulted in suspended sentences for all the defendants. The cause may have been an unpaid gambling debt linked to a bare-knuckle boxing match.\n\nA 2011 report, conducted by the Irish Chaplaincy in Britain, \"Voices Unheard: A Study of Irish Travellers in Prison\" (Mac Gabhann, 2011) found that social, economic and educational exclusion were contributing factors to the \"increasingly high levels of imprisonment\" of Irish Travellers.\n\nIn 2016, Irish Travelers from the southern East Coast of the United States pleaded guilty to charges of perpetrated scams on homeowners as well as government agencies. By 2017, 52 had plead guilty to violations of the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO).\n\nA complaint against Travellers in the United Kingdom is that of unauthorised Traveller sites being established on privately owned land or on council-owned land not designated for that purpose. Under the government's \"Gypsy and Traveller Sites Grant\", designated sites for Travellers' use are provided by councils, and funds are made available to local authorities for the construction of new sites and maintenance and extension of existing sites.\n\nHowever, Travellers also frequently make use of other, non-authorised sites, including public \"common land\" and private plots such as large fields and other privately owned land. A famous example was Dale Farm in Essex. The Travellers claim that there is an under-provision of authorised sites. The Gypsy Council estimates an under-provision amounts to insufficient sites for 3,500 people.\n\nThe passing of the Caravan Sites Act 1968, for some time, safeguarded their right to a site, but the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 repealed part II of the 1968 act, removing the duty on local authorities in the UK to provide sites for Travellers and giving them the power to close down existing sites. In Northern Ireland, opposition to Travellers' sites has been led by the Democratic Unionist Party.\n\nThe following are some of the Travellers' representative organisations formed since the 1960s:\n\nIrish Travellers have been depicted, usually negatively but sometimes with some care and sympathy, in film, radio, print, and television. Shows like \"The Riches\" (2007–2008), the American television series featuring Eddie Izzard and Minnie Driver, take a deeper look into the Traveller lifestyle. The documentary series \"Big Fat Gypsy Weddings\" (2010, 2011, and 2012) has been commercially successful in the United Kingdom, offering glimpses of Traveller life as viewed at real-life weddings. A 1997 American film, \"Traveller\", starring Bill Paxton and Mark Wahlberg, also explored the Travellers in America.\n\n\nAdvocacy:\n\nSimilar groups:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40635762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40635762", "title": "Ismail Hasham", "text": "Ismail Hasham\n\nIsmail Hasham (also known as \"Haji Ismail Hasham\") was a late 19th century Indian businessman and the founder of Bombay Steam Navigation Company, the first Indian owned shipping company.\n\nThe Yusuf family is among the ten largest private land owners in Mumbai. \n\n"}
{"id": "16243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16243", "title": "Jawaharlal Nehru", "text": "Jawaharlal Nehru\n\nPt. Jawaharlal Nehru (; ; 14 November 1889 – 27 May 1964) was a freedom fighter, the first Prime Minister of India and a central figure in Indian politics before and after independence. He emerged as an eminent leader of the Indian independence movement under the tutelage of Mahatma Gandhi and served India as Prime Minister from its establishment as an independent nation in 1947 until his death in 1964. He is considered to be the architect of the modern Indian nation-state: a sovereign, socialist, secular, and democratic republic. He was also known as Pandit Nehru due to his roots with the Kashmiri Pandit community while Indian children knew him as \"Chacha Nehru\" (Hindi, lit., \"Uncle Nehru\").\n\nThe son of Motilal Nehru, a prominent lawyer and nationalist statesman and Swaroop Rani, Nehru was a graduate of Trinity College, Cambridge and the Inner Temple, where he trained to be a barrister. Upon his return to India, he enrolled at the Allahabad High Court and took an interest in national politics, which eventually replaced his legal practice. A committed nationalist since his teenage years, he became a rising figure in Indian politics during the upheavals of the 1910s. He became the prominent leader of the left-wing factions of the Indian National Congress during the 1920s, and eventually of the entire Congress, with the tacit approval of his mentor, Gandhi. As Congress President in 1929, Nehru called for complete independence from the British Raj and instigated the Congress's decisive shift towards the left.\n\nNehru and the Congress dominated Indian politics during the 1930s as the country moved towards independence. His idea of a secular nation-state was seemingly validated when the Congress, under his leadership, swept the 1937 provincial elections and formed the government in several provinces; on the other hand, the separatist Muslim League fared much poorer. But these achievements were severely compromised in the aftermath of the Quit India Movement in 1942, which saw the British effectively crush the Congress as a political organisation. Nehru, who had reluctantly heeded Gandhi's call for immediate independence, for he had desired to support the Allied war effort during World War II, came out of a lengthy prison term to a much altered political landscape. The Muslim League under his old Congress colleague and now opponent, Muhammad Ali Jinnah, had come to dominate Muslim politics in India. Negotiations between Congress and Muslim League for power sharing failed and gave way to the independence and bloody partition of India in 1947.\n\nNehru was elected by the Congress to assume office as independent India's first Prime Minister, although the question of leadership had been settled as far back as 1941, when Gandhi acknowledged Nehru as his political heir and successor. As Prime Minister, he set out to realise his vision of India. The Constitution of India was enacted in 1950, after which he embarked on an ambitious program of economic, social and political reforms. Chiefly, he oversaw India's transition from a colony to a republic, while nurturing a plural, multi-party system. In foreign policy, he took a leading role in the Non-Aligned Movement while projecting India as a regional hegemon in South Asia.\n\nUnder Nehru's leadership, the Congress emerged as a catch-all party, dominating national and state-level politics and winning consecutive elections in 1951, 1957, and 1962. He remained popular with the people of India in spite of political troubles in his final years and failure of leadership during the 1962 Sino-Indian War. In India, his birthday is celebrated as \"Bal Diwas\" (\"Children's Day)\".\n\nJawaharlal Nehru was born on 14 November 1889 in Allahabad in British India. His father, Motilal Nehru (1861–1931), a self-made wealthy barrister who belonged to the Kashmiri Pandit community, served twice as President of the Indian National Congress, in 1919 and 1928. His mother, Swaruprani Thussu (1868–1938), who came from a well-known Kashmiri Brahmin family settled in Lahore, was Motilal's second wife, the first having died in child birth. Jawaharlal was the eldest of three children, two of whom were girls. The elder sister, Vijaya Lakshmi, later became the first female president of the United Nations General Assembly. The youngest sister, Krishna Hutheesing, became a noted writer and authored several books on her brother.\n\nNehru described his childhood as a \"sheltered and uneventful one\". He grew up in an atmosphere of privilege at wealthy homes including a palatial estate called the Anand Bhavan. His father had him educated at home by private governesses and tutors. Under the influence of a tutor, Ferdinand T. Brooks, he became interested in science and theosophy. He was subsequently initiated into the Theosophical Society at age thirteen by family friend Annie Besant. However, his interest in theosophy did not prove to be enduring and he left the society shortly after Brooks departed as his tutor. He wrote: \"for nearly three years [Brooks] was with me and in many ways he influenced me greatly\".\n\nNehru's theosophical interests had induced him to the study of the Buddhist and Hindu scriptures. According to Bal Ram Nanda, these scriptures were Nehru's \"first introduction to the religious and cultural heritage of [India]...[they] provided Nehru the initial impulse for [his] long intellectual quest which culminated...in \"The Discovery of India\".\"\n\nNehru became an ardent nationalist during his youth. The Second Boer War and the Russo-Japanese War intensified his feelings. About the latter he wrote, \"[The] Japanese victories [had] stirred up my enthusiasm ... Nationalistic ideas filled my mind ... I mused of Indian freedom and Asiatic freedom from the thraldom of Europe.\" Later when he had begun his institutional schooling in 1905 at Harrow, a leading school in England, he was greatly influenced by G. M. Trevelyan's Garibaldi books, which he had received as prizes for academic merit. He viewed Garibaldi as a revolutionary hero. He wrote: \"Visions of similar deeds in India came before, of [my] gallant fight for [Indian] freedom and in my mind India and Italy got strangely mixed together.\"\n\nNehru went to Trinity College, Cambridge in October 1907 and graduated with an honours degree in natural science in 1910. During this period, he also studied politics, economics, history and literature desultorily. Writings of Bernard Shaw, H. G. Wells, J.M. Keynes, Bertrand Russell, Lowes Dickinson and Meredith Townsend moulded much of his political and economic thinking.\n\nAfter completing his degree in 1910, Nehru moved to London and studied law at Inner temple Inn During this time, he continued to study the scholars of the Fabian Society including Beatrice Webb. He was called to the Bar in 1912.\n\nAfter returning to India in August 1912, Nehru enrolled himself as an advocate of the Allahabad High Court and tried to settle down as a barrister. But, unlike his father, he had only a desultory interest in his profession and did not relish either the practice of law or the company of lawyers. He wrote: \"Decidedly the atmosphere was not intellectually stimulating and a sense of the utter insipidity of life grew upon me.\" His involvement in nationalist politics would gradually replace his legal practice in the coming years.\n\nNehru had developed an interest in Indian politics during his time in Britain as a student and a barrister.\n\nWithin months of his return to India in 1912, Nehru attended an annual session of the Indian National Congress in Patna. Congress in 1912 was the party of moderates and elites, and he was disconcerted by what he saw as \"very much an English-knowing upper-class affair\". Nehru harboured doubts regarding the effectiveness of Congress but agreed to work for the party in support of the Indian civil rights movement led by Mahatma Gandhi in South Africa, collecting funds for the movement in 1913. Later, he campaigned against indentured labour and other such discrimination faced by Indians in the British colonies.\n\nWhen World War I broke out, sympathy in India was divided. Although educated Indians \"by and large took a vicarious pleasure\" in seeing the British rulers humbled, the ruling upper classes sided with the Allies. Nehru confessed that he viewed the war with mixed feelings. Frank Moraes wrote: \"If [Nehru's] sympathy was with any country it was with France, whose culture he greatly admired.\" During the war, Nehru volunteered for the St John Ambulance and worked as one of the provincial secretaries of the organisation in Allahabad. He also spoke out against the censorship acts passed by the British government in India.\n\nNehru emerged from the war years as a leader whose political views were considered radical. Although the political discourse had been dominated at this time by Gopal Krishna Gokhale, a moderate who said that it was \"madness to think of independence\", Nehru had spoken \"openly of the politics of non-cooperation, of the need of resigning from honorary positions under the government and of not continuing the futile politics of representation\". He ridiculed the Indian Civil Service for its support of British policies. He noted that someone had once defined the Indian Civil Service, \"with which we are unfortunately still afflicted in this country, as neither Indian, nor civil, nor a service\". Motilal Nehru, a prominent moderate leader, acknowledged the limits of constitutional agitation, but counselled his son that there was no other \"practical alternative\" to it. Nehru, however, was not satisfied with the pace of the national movement. He became involved with aggressive nationalists leaders who were demanding Home Rule for Indians.\n\nThe influence of the moderates on Congress politics began to wane after Gokhale died in 1915. Anti-moderate leaders such as Annie Beasant and Bal Gangadhar Tilak took the opportunity to call for a national movement for Home Rule. But, in 1915, the proposal was rejected because of the reluctance of the moderates to commit to such a radical course of action. Besant nevertheless formed a league for advocating Home Rule in 1916; and Tilak, on his release from a prison term, had in April 1916 formed his own league. Nehru joined both leagues but worked especially for the former. He remarked later: \"[Besant] had a very powerful influence on me in my childhood... even later when I entered political life her influence continued.\" Another development which brought about a radical change in Indian politics was the espousal of Hindu-Muslim unity with the Lucknow Pact at the annual meeting of the Congress in December 1916. The pact had been initiated earlier in the year at Allahabad at a meeting of the All India Congress Committee which was held at the Nehru residence at Anand Bhawan. Nehru welcomed and encouraged the rapprochement between the two Indian communities.\n\nSeveral nationalist leaders banded together in 1916 under the leadership of Annie Besant to voice a demand for self-governance, and to obtain the status of a Dominion within the British Empire as enjoyed by Australia, Canada, South Africa, New Zealand and Newfoundland at the time. Nehru joined the movement and rose to become secretary of Besant's Home Rule League. In June 1917 Besant was arrested and interned by the British government. The Congress and various other Indian organisations threatened to launch protests if she were not set free. The British government was subsequently forced to release Besant and make significant concessions after a period of intense protest.\n\nThe first big national involvement of Nehru came at the onset of the Non-Cooperation movement in 1920. He led the movement in the United Provinces (now Uttar Pradesh). Nehru was arrested on charges of anti-governmental activities in 1921, and was released a few months later. In the rift that formed within the Congress following the sudden closure of the Non-Cooperation movement after the Chauri Chaura incident, Nehru remained loyal to Gandhi and did not join the Swaraj Party formed by his father Motilal Nehru and CR Das.\n\nNehru played a leading role in the development of the internationalist outlook of the Indian independence struggle. He sought foreign allies for India and forged links with movements for independence and democracy all over the world. In 1927, his efforts paid off and the Congress was invited to attend the congress of oppressed nationalities in Brussels in Belgium. The meeting was called to co-ordinate and plan a common struggle against imperialism. Nehru represented India and was elected to the Executive Council of the League against Imperialism that was born at this meeting.\n\nIncreasingly, Nehru saw the struggle for independence from British imperialism as a multi-national effort by the various colonies and dominions of the Empire; some of his statements on this matter, however, were interpreted as complicity with the rise of Hitler and his espoused intentions. In the face of these allegations, Nehru responded, \"We have sympathy for the national movement of Arabs in Palestine because it is directed against British Imperialism. Our sympathies cannot be weakened by the fact that the national movement coincides with Hitler's interests.\"\n\nDuring the mid-1930s, Nehru was much concerned with developments in Europe, which seemed to be drifting toward another world war. He was in Europe in early 1936, visiting his ailing wife, shortly before she died in a sanitarium in Switzerland. Even at this time, he emphasised that, in the event of war, India's place was alongside the democracies, though he insisted that India could only fight in support of Great Britain and France as a free country.\n\nNehru worked closely with Subhas Chandra Bose in developing good relations with governments of free countries all over the world. However, the two split in the late 1930s, when Bose agreed to seek the help of fascists in driving the British out of India. At the same time, Nehru had supported the Republicans who were fighting against Francisco Franco's forces in the Spanish Civil War. Nehru along with his aide V. K. Krishna Menon visited Spain and declared support for the Republicans. He refused to meet Benito Mussolini, the dictator of Italy when the latter expressed his desire to meet him.\n\nNehru was one of the first nationalist leaders to realise the sufferings of the people in the states ruled by Indian princes. He suffered imprisonment in Nabha, a princely state, when he went there to see the struggle that was being waged by the Sikhs against the corrupt Mahants. The nationalist movement had been confined to the territories under direct British rule. He helped to make the struggle of the people in the princely states a part of the nationalist movement for independence. The All India States Peoples Conference was formed in 1927. Nehru who had been supporting the cause of the people of the princely states for many years was made the President of the conference in 1935. He opened up its ranks to membership from across the political spectrum. The body would play an important role during the political integration of India, helping Indian leaders Vallabhbhai Patel and V. P. Menon (to whom Nehru had delegated the task of integrating the princely states into India) negotiate with hundreds of princes.\n\nIn July 1946, Nehru pointedly observed that no princely state could prevail militarily against the army of independent India. In January 1947, he said that independent India would not accept the Divine right of kings, and in May 1947, he declared that any princely state which refused to join the Constituent Assembly would be treated as an enemy state. During the drafting of the Indian constitution, many Indian leaders (except Nehru) of that time were in favour of allowing each princely state or covenanting state to be independent as a federal state along the lines suggested originally by the Government of India act (1935). But as the drafting of the constitution progressed and the idea of forming a republic took concrete shape (because of the efforts of Nehru), it was decided that all the princely states/covenanting States would merge with the Indian republic. Nehru's daughter, Indira Gandhi, de-recognised all the rulers by a presidential order in 1969. But this was struck down by the Supreme Court of India. Eventually, the government by the 26th amendment to the constitution was successful in abolishing the princely states of India. The process began by Nehru was finally completed by his daughter by the end of 1971.\n\nNehru was one of the first leaders to demand that the Congress Party should resolve to make a complete and explicit break from all ties with the British Empire. His resolution for independence was approved at the Madras session of Congress in 1927 despite Gandhi's criticism. At that time he also formed Independence for India league, a pressure group within the Congress.\n\nIn 1928, Gandhi agreed to Nehru's demands and proposed a resolution that called for the British to grant dominion status to India within two years. If the British failed to meet the deadline, the Congress would call upon all Indians to fight for complete independence. Nehru was one of the leaders who objected to the time given to the British – he pressed Gandhi to demand immediate actions from the British. Gandhi brokered a further compromise by reducing the time given from two years to one. Nehru agreed to vote for the new resolution.\n\nDemands for dominion status were rejected by the British in 1929. Nehru assumed the presidency of the Congress party during the Lahore session on 29 December 1929 and introduced a successful resolution calling for complete independence.\n\nNehru drafted the Indian declaration of independence, which stated:\n\nWe believe that it is the inalienable right of the Indian people, as of any other people, to have freedom and to enjoy the fruits of their toil and have the necessities of life, so that they may have full opportunities of growth. We believe also that if any government deprives a people of these rights and oppresses them the people have a further right to alter it or abolish it. The British government in India has not only deprived the Indian people of their freedom but has based itself on the exploitation of the masses, and has ruined India economically, politically, culturally and spiritually. We believe therefore, that India must sever the British connection and attain Purna Swaraj or complete independence.\n\nAt midnight on New Year's Eve 1929, Nehru hoisted the tricolour flag of India upon the banks of the Ravi in Lahore. A pledge of independence was read out, which included a readiness to withhold taxes. The massive gathering of public attending the ceremony was asked if they agreed with it, and the vast majority of people were witnessed to raise their hands in approval. 172 Indian members of central and provincial legislatures resigned in support of the resolution and in accordance with Indian public sentiment. The Congress asked the people of India to observe 26 January as Independence Day. The flag of India was hoisted publicly across India by Congress volunteers, nationalists and the public. Plans for a mass civil disobedience were also underway.\n\nAfter the Lahore session of the Congress in 1929, Nehru gradually emerged as the paramount leader of the Indian independence movement. Gandhi stepped back into a more spiritual role. Although Gandhi did not officially designate Nehru his political heir until 1942, the country as early as the mid-1930s saw in Nehru the natural successor to Gandhi.\n\nNehru and most of the Congress leaders were initially ambivalent about Gandhi's plan to begin civil disobedience with a satyagraha aimed at the British salt tax. After the protest gathered steam, they realised the power of salt as a symbol. Nehru remarked about the unprecedented popular response, \"it seemed as though a spring had been suddenly released\". He was arrested on 14 April 1930 while on train from Allahabad for Raipur. He had earlier, after addressing a huge meeting and leading a vast procession, ceremoniously manufactured some contraband salt. He was charged with breach of the salt law, tried summarily behind prison walls and sentenced to six months of imprisonment.\n\nHe nominated Gandhi to succeed him as Congress President during his absence in jail, but Gandhi declined, and Nehru then nominated his father as his successor. With Nehru's arrest the civil disobedience acquired a new tempo, and arrests, firing on crowds and lathi charges grew to be ordinary occurrences.\n\nThe Salt Satyagraha succeeded in drawing the attention of the world. Indian, British, and world opinion increasingly began to recognise the legitimacy of the claims by the Congress party for independence. Nehru considered the salt satyagraha the high-water mark of his association with Gandhi, and felt that its lasting importance was in changing the attitudes of Indians:\n\nOf course these movements exercised tremendous pressure on the British Government and shook the government machinery. But the real importance, to my mind, lay in the effect they had on our own people, and especially the village masses. ... Non-cooperation dragged them out of the mire and gave them self-respect and self-reliance. ... They acted courageously and did not submit so easily to unjust oppression; their outlook widened and they began to think a little in terms of India as a whole. ... It was a remarkable transformation and the Congress, under Gandhi's leadership, must have the credit for it.\n\nNehru elaborated the policies of the Congress and a future Indian nation under his leadership in 1929. He declared that the aims of the congress were freedom of religion, right to form associations, freedom of expression of thought, equality before law for every individual without distinction of caste, colour, creed or religion, protection to regional languages and cultures, safeguarding the interests of the peasants and labour, abolition of untouchability, introduction of adult franchise, imposition of prohibition, nationalisation of industries, socialism, and establishment of a secular India. All these aims formed the core of the \"Fundamental Rights and Economic Policy\" resolution drafted by Nehru in 1929–31 and were ratified by the All India Congress Committee under Gandhi's leadership.\n\nThe espousal of socialism as the goal was most difficult to achieve. Nehru was opposed in this by the right-wing Congressmen Vallabhbhai Patel, Rajendra Prasad and C. Rajagopalachari. He had the support of the left-wing Congressmen Maulana Azad and Subhas Chandra Bose. The trio combined to oust Dr. Prasad as Congress President in 1936. Nehru was elected in his place and held the presidency for two years (1936–37). He was then succeeded by his socialist colleagues Bose (1938–39) and Azad (1940–46). After the fall of Bose from the mainstream of Indian politics (because of his support of violence in driving the British out of India, the power struggle between the socialists and conservatives balanced out. However, Sardar Patel died in 1950, leaving Nehru as the sole remaining iconic national leader, and soon the situation became such that Nehru was able to implement many of his basic policies without hindrance. The conservative right-wing of the Congress (composed of India's upper class elites) would continue opposing the socialists until the great schism in 1969. Nehru's daughter, Indira Gandhi, during the state of Emergency she imposed, was able to fulfill her father's dream by the 42nd amendment (1976) of the Indian constitution by which India officially became \"socialist\" and \"secular\".\n\nDuring Nehru's second term as general secretary of the Congress, he proposed certain resolutions concerning the foreign policy of India. From that time onward, he was given carte blanche in framing the foreign policy of any future Indian nation. He developed good relations with governments all over the world. He firmly placed India on the side of democracy and freedom during a time when the world was under the threat of fascism. He was also given the responsibility of planning the economy of a future India. He appointed the National Planning Commission in 1938 to help in framing such policies. However, many of the plans framed by Nehru and his colleagues would come undone with the unexpected partition of India in 1947.\n\nNehru's visit to Europe in 1936 proved to be the watershed in his political and economic thinking. His real interest in Marxism and his socialist pattern of thought stem from that tour. His subsequent sojourns in prison enabled him to study Marxism in more depth. Interested in its ideas but repelled by some of its methods, he could never bring himself to accept Karl Marx's writings as revealed scripture. Yet from then on, the yardstick of his economic thinking remained Marxist, adjusted, where necessary, to Indian conditions.\n\nWhen the Congress party under Nehru chose to contest elections and accept power under the Federation scheme, Gandhi resigned from party membership. Gandhi did not disagree with Nehru's move, but felt that if he resigned, his popularity with Indians would cease to stifle the party's membership. When the elections following the introduction of provincial autonomy (under the government of India act 1935) brought the Congress party to power in a majority of the provinces, Nehru's popularity and power were unmatched. The Muslim League under Muhammad Ali Jinnah (who was to become the creator of Pakistan) had fared badly at the polls. Nehru declared that the only two parties that mattered in India were the British Raj and Congress. Jinnah's statements that the Muslim League was the third and \"equal partner\" within Indian politics was widely rejected. Nehru had hoped to elevate Maulana Azad as the pre-eminent leader of Indian Muslims, but in this, he was undermined by Gandhi, who continued to treat Jinnah as the voice of Indian Muslims.\n\nWhen World War II started, Viceroy Linlithgow had unilaterally declared India a belligerent on the side of the Britain, without consulting the elected Indian representatives. Nehru hurried back from a visit to China, announcing that, in a conflict between democracy and Fascism, \"our sympathies must inevitably be on the side of democracy... I should like India to play its full part and throw all her resources into the struggle for a new order.\n\nAfter much deliberation, the Congress under Nehru informed the government that it would co-operate with the British but on certain conditions. First, Britain must give an assurance of full independence for India after the war and allow the election of a constituent assembly to frame a new constitution; second, although the Indian armed forces would remain under the British Commander-in-Chief, Indians must be included immediately in the central government and given a chance to share power and responsibility. When Nehru presented Lord Linlithgow with the demands, he chose to reject them. A deadlock was reached. \"The same old game is played again\", Nehru wrote bitterly to Gandhi, \"the background is the same, the various epithets are the same and the actors are the same and the results must be the same\".\n\nOn 23 October 1939, the Congress condemned the Viceroy's attitude and called upon the Congress ministries in the various provinces to resign in protest. Before this crucial announcement, Nehru urged Jinnah and the Muslim League to join the protest but the latter declined.\n\nIn March 1940 Jinnah passed what would come to be known as the \"Pakistan Resolution\", declaring \"Muslims are a nation according to any definition of a nation, and they must have their homelands, their territory and their State.\" This state was to be known as Pakistan, meaning \"Land of the Pure\". Nehru angrily declared that \"all the old problems ... pale into insignificance before the latest stand taken by the Muslim League leader in Lahore\". Linlithgow made Nehru an offer on 8 October 1940. It stated that Dominion status for India was the objective of the British government. However, it referred neither to a date nor method of accomplishment. Only Jinnah got something more precise. \"The British would not contemplate transferring power to a Congress-dominated national government the authority of which was \"denied by large and powerful elements in India's national life\".\n\nIn October 1940, Gandhi and Nehru, abandoning their original stand of supporting Britain, decided to launch a limited civil disobedience campaign in which leading advocates of Indian independence were selected to participate one by one. Nehru was arrested and sentenced to four years' imprisonment. After spending a little more than a year in jail, he was released, along with other Congress prisoners, three days before the bombing of Pearl Harbor in Hawaii.\n\nWhen the Japanese carried their attack through Burma (now Myanmar) to the borders of India in the spring of 1942, the British government, faced by this new military threat, decided to make some overtures to India, as Nehru had originally desired. Prime Minister Winston Churchill dispatched Sir Stafford Cripps, a member of the war Cabinet who was known to be politically close to Nehru and also knew Jinnah, with proposals for a settlement of the constitutional problem. As soon as he arrived he discovered that India was more deeply divided than he had imagined. Nehru, eager for a compromise, was hopeful. Gandhi was not. Jinnah had continued opposing the Congress. \"Pakistan is our only demand, and by God we will have it.\", declared the Muslim League newspaper \"Dawn\".\n\nCripps's mission failed as Gandhi would accept nothing less than independence. Relations between Nehru and Gandhi cooled over the latter's refusal to co-operate with Cripps, but the two later reconciled. On 15 January 1941, Gandhi had stated:\n\nSome say Jawaharlal and I were estranged. It will require much more than difference of opinion to estrange us. We had differences from the time we became co-workers and yet I have said for some years and say so now that not Rajaji but Jawaharlal will be my successor.\n\nGandhi called on the British to leave India; Nehru, though reluctant to embarrass the allied war effort, had no alternative but to join Gandhi. Following the Quit India resolution passed by the Congress party in Bombay (now Mumbai) on 8 August 1942, the entire Congress working committee, including Gandhi and Nehru, was arrested and imprisoned. Nehru emerged from this—his ninth and last detention—only on 15 June 1945.\n\nDuring the period where all of the Congress leadership were in jail, the Muslim League under Jinnah grew in power. In April 1943, the League captured the governments of Bengal and, a month later, that of the North West Frontier Province. In none of these provinces had the League previously had a majority – only the arrest of Congress members made it possible. With all the Muslim dominated provinces except the Punjab under Jinnah's control, the artificial concept of a separate Muslim State was turning into a reality. However, by 1944, Jinnah's power and prestige were on the wane. A general sympathy towards the jailed Congress leaders was developing among Muslims, and much of the blame for the disastrous Bengal famine of 1943–44 during which two million died, had been laid on the shoulders of the province's Muslim League government. The numbers at Jinnah's meetings, once counted in thousands soon numbered only a few hundreds. In despair, Jinnah left the political scene for a stay in Kashmir. His prestige was restored unwittingly by Gandhi, who had been released from prison on medical grounds in May 1944 and had met Jinnah in Bombay in September. There he offered the Muslim leader a plebiscite in the Muslim areas after the war to see whether they wanted to separate from the rest of India. Essentially, it was an acceptance of the principle of Pakistan – but not in so many words. Jinnah demanded that the exact words be said; Gandhi refused and the talks broke down. Jinnah, however, had greatly strengthened his own position and that of the League. The most influential member of Congress had been seen to negotiate with him on equal terms. Other Muslim League leaders, opposed both to Jinnah and to the partition of India, lost strength.\n\nNehru and his colleagues had been released as the 1946 Cabinet Mission to India arrived to propose plans for transfer of power.\nOnce elected, Nehru headed an interim government, which was impaired by outbreaks of communal violence and political disorder, and the opposition of the Muslim League led by Muhammad Ali Jinnah, who were demanding a separate Muslim state of Pakistan. After failed bids to form coalitions, Nehru reluctantly supported the partition of India, according to a plan released by the British on 3 June 1947. He took office as the Prime Minister of India on 15 August, and delivered his inaugural address titled \"Tryst with Destiny\".\n\nLong years ago we made a tryst with destiny, and now the time comes when we shall redeem our pledge, not wholly or in full measure, but very substantially. At the stroke of the midnight hour, when the world sleeps, India will awake to life and freedom. A moment comes, which comes but rarely in history, when we step out from the old to the new, when an age ends, and when the soul of a nation, long suppressed, finds utterance. It is fitting that at this solemn moment we take the pledge of dedication to the service of India and her people and to the still larger cause of humanity.\"\n\nOn 30 January 1948, Gandhi was shot while he was walking to a platform from which he was to address a prayer meeting. The assassin, Nathuram Godse, was a Hindu nationalist with links to the extremist Hindu Mahasabha, who held Gandhi responsible for weakening India by insisting upon a payment to Pakistan. Nehru addressed the nation through radio:\n\nFriends and comrades, the light has gone out of our lives, and there is darkness everywhere, and I do not quite know what to tell you or how to say it. Our beloved leader, Bapu as we called him, the father of the nation, is no more. Perhaps I am wrong to say that; nevertheless, we will not see him again, as we have seen him for these many years, we will not run to him for advice or seek solace from him, and that is a terrible blow, not only for me, but for millions and millions in this country.\n\nYasmin Khan argued that Gandhi's death and funeral helped consolidate the authority of the new Indian state under Nehru and Patel. The Congress tightly controlled the epic public displays of grief over a two-week period—the funeral, mortuary rituals and distribution of the martyr's ashes—as millions participated and hundreds of millions watched. The goal was to assert the power of the government, legitimise the Congress party's control and suppress all religious para-military groups. Nehru and Patel suppressed the RSS, the Muslim National Guards, and the Khaksars, with some 200,000 arrests. Gandhi's death and funeral linked the distant state with the Indian people and made more understand the need to suppress religious parties during the transition to independence for the Indian people.\n\nIn later years, there emerged a revisionist school of history which sought to blame Nehru for the partition of India, mostly referring to his highly centralised policies for an independent India in 1947, which Jinnah opposed in favour of a more decentralised India.\n\nIn the years following independence, Nehru frequently turned to his daughter Indira to look after him and manage his personal affairs. Under his leadership, the Congress won an overwhelming majority in the elections of 1952. Indira moved into Nehru's official residence to attend to him and became his constant companion in his travels across India and the world. Indira would virtually become Nehru's chief of staff.\n\nNehru had led the Congress to a major victory in the 1957 elections, but his government was facing rising problems and criticism. Disillusioned by alleged intra-party corruption and bickering, Nehru contemplated resigning but continued to serve. The election of his daughter Indira as Congress President in 1959 aroused criticism for alleged nepotism, although actually Nehru had disapproved of her election, partly because he considered it smacked of \"dynasticism\"; he said, indeed it was \"wholly undemocratic and an undesirable thing\", and refused her a position in his cabinet. Indira herself was at loggerheads with her father over policy; most notably, she used his oft-stated personal deference to the Congress Working Committee to push through the dismissal of the Communist Party of India government in the state of Kerala, over his own objections. Nehru began to be frequently embarrassed by her ruthlessness and disregard for parliamentary tradition, and was \"hurt\" by what he saw as an assertiveness with no purpose other than to stake out an identity independent of her father.\n\nIn the 1962 elections, Nehru led the Congress to victory yet with a diminished majority. Communist and socialist parties were the main beneficiaries although some right wing groups like Bharatiya Jana Sangh also did well.\n\nThere were four known assassination attempts on Nehru. The first attempt on his life was during partition in 1947 while he was visiting North-West Frontier Province (now in Pakistan) in a car. The second one was by a knife-wielding rickshaw-puller in Maharashtra in 1955. The third one happened in Bombay (now Maharashtra) in 1956. The fourth one was a failed bombing attempt on train tracks in Maharashtra in 1961. Despite threats to his life, Nehru despised having too much security around him and did not like to disrupt traffic due to his movement.\n\nNehru implemented policies based on import substitution industrialization and advocated a mixed economy where the government controlled public sector would co-exist with the private sector. He believed that the establishment of basic and heavy industry was fundamental to the development and modernisation of the Indian economy. The government, therefore, directed investment primarily into key public sector industries – steel, iron, coal, and power – promoting their development with subsidies and protectionist policies.\n\nThe policy of non-alignment during the Cold War meant that Nehru received financial and technical support from both power blocs in building India's industrial base from scratch. Steel mill complexes were built at Bokaro and Rourkela with assistance from the Soviet Union and West Germany. There was substantial industrial development. Industry grew 7.0 percent annually between 1950 and 1965 – almost trebling industrial output and making India the world's seventh largest industrial country. Nehru's critics, however, contended that India's import substitution industrialisation, which was continued long after the Nehru era, weakened the international competitiveness of its manufacturing industries. India's share of world trade fell from 1.4 per cent in 1951–1960 to 0.5 per cent over 1981–1990. On the other hand, India's export performance is argued to have actually showed sustained improvement over the period. The volume of exports went up at an annual rate of 2.9 per cent in 1951–1960 to 7.6 per cent in 1971–1980.\n\nGDP and GNP grew 3.9 and 4.0 per cent annually between 1950–51 and 1964–65. It was a radical break from the British colonial period. But, in comparison to other industrial powers in Europe and East Asia, the growth rates were considered anemic at best. India lagged behind the miracle economies (Japan, West Germany, France, and Italy). State planning, controls, and regulations were argued to have impaired economic growth. While India's economy grew faster than both the United Kingdom and the United States – low initial income and rapid population increase – meant that growth was inadequate for any sort of catch-up with rich income nations.\n\nUnder Nehru's leadership, the government attempted to develop India quickly by embarking on agrarian reform and rapid industrialisation. A successful land reform was introduced that abolished giant landholdings, but efforts to redistribute land by placing limits on landownership failed. Attempts to introduce large-scale cooperative farming were frustrated by landowning rural elites, who formed the core of the powerful right-wing of the Congress and had considerable political support in opposing the efforts of Nehru. Agricultural production expanded until the early 1960s, as additional land was brought under cultivation and some irrigation projects began to have an effect. The establishment of agricultural universities, modelled after land-grant colleges in the United States, contributed to the development of the economy. These universities worked with high-yielding varieties of wheat and rice, initially developed in Mexico and the Philippines, that in the 1960s began the Green Revolution, an effort to diversify and increase crop production. At the same time a series of failed monsoons would cause serious food shortages despite the steady progress and increase in agricultural production.\n\nThe British Indian Empire, which included present-day India, Pakistan and Bangladesh, was divided into two types of territories: the Provinces of British India, which were governed directly by British officials responsible to the Viceroy of India; and princely states, under the rule of local hereditary rulers who recognised British suzerainty in return for local autonomy, in most cases as established by a treaty. Between 1947 and about 1950, the territories of the princely states were politically integrated into the Indian Union under Nehru and Sardar Patel. Most were merged into existing provinces; others were organised into new provinces, such as Rajputana, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Bharat, and Vindhya Pradesh, made up of multiple princely states; a few, including Mysore, Hyderabad, Bhopal, and Bilaspur, became separate provinces. The Government of India Act, 1935 remained the constitutional law of India pending adoption of a new Constitution.\nThe new Constitution of India, which came into force on 26 January 1950, made India a sovereign democratic republic. Nehru declared the new republic to be a \"Union of States\". The constitution of 1950 distinguished between three main types of states: Part A states, which were the former governors' provinces of British India, were ruled by an elected governor and state legislature. The Part B states were former princely states or groups of princely states, governed by a rajpramukh, who was usually the ruler of a constituent state, and an elected legislature. The rajpramukh was appointed by the President of India. The Part C states included both the former chief commissioners' provinces and some princely states, and each was governed by a chief commissioner appointed by the President of India. The sole Part D state was the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, which were administered by a lieutenant governor appointed by the central government.\n\nIn December 1953, Nehru appointed the States Reorganisation Commission to prepare for the creation of states on linguistic lines. This was headed by Justice Fazal Ali and the commission itself was also known as the Fazal Ali Commission. The efforts of this commission were overseen by Govind Ballabh Pant, who served as Nehru's Home Minister from December 1954. The commission created a report in 1955 recommending the reorganisation of India's states. Under the Seventh Amendment, the existing distinction between Part A, Part B, Part C, and Part D states was abolished. The distinction between Part A and Part B states was removed, becoming known simply as \"states\". A new type of entity, the union territory, replaced the classification as a Part C or Part D state. Nehru stressed commonality among Indians and promoted pan-Indianism. He refused to reorganise states on either religious or ethnic lines. Western scholars have mostly praised Nehru for the integration of the states into a modern republic but the act was not accepted universally in India.\n\nJawaharlal Nehru was a passionate advocate of education for India's children and youth, believing it essential for India's future progress. His government oversaw the establishment of many institutions of higher learning, including the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, the Indian Institutes of Technology, the Indian Institutes of Management and the National Institutes of Technology. Nehru also outlined a commitment in his five-year plans to guarantee free and compulsory primary education to all of India's children. For this purpose, Nehru oversaw the creation of mass village enrollment programs and the construction of thousands of schools. Nehru also launched initiatives such as the provision of free milk and meals to children to fight malnutrition. Adult education centers, vocational and technical schools were also organised for adults, especially in the rural areas.\n\nUnder Nehru, the Indian Parliament enacted many changes to Hindu law to criminalize caste discrimination and increase the legal rights and social freedoms of women.\n\nNehru specifically wrote Article 44 of the Indian constitution under the Directive Principles of State Policy which states : 'The State shall endeavor to secure for the citizens a uniform civil code throughout the territory of India.' The article has formed the basis of secularism in India. However, Nehru has been criticized for the inconsistent application of the law. Most notably, Nehru allowed Muslims to keep their personal law in matters relating to marriage and inheritance. Also in the small state of Goa, a civil code based on the old Portuguese Family Laws was allowed to continue, and Muslim Personal law was prohibited by Nehru. This was the result of the annexation of Goa in 1961 by India, when Nehru promised the people that their laws would be left intact. This has led to accusations of selective secularism.\n\nWhile Nehru exempted Muslim law from legislation and they remained unreformed, he did pass the Special Marriage Act in 1954. The idea behind this act was to give everyone in India the ability to marry outside the personal law under a civil marriage. As usual the law applied to all of India, except Jammu and Kashmir (again leading to accusations of selective secularism). In many respects, the act was almost identical to the Hindu Marriage Act of 1955, which gives some idea as to how secularised the law regarding Hindus had become. The Special Marriage Act allowed Muslims to marry under it and thereby retain the protections, generally beneficial to Muslim women, that could not be found in the personal law. Under the act polygamy was illegal, and inheritance and succession would be governed by the Indian Succession Act, rather than the respective Muslim Personal Law. Divorce also would be governed by the secular law, and maintenance of a divorced wife would be along the lines set down in the civil law.\n\nA system of reservations in government services and educational institutions was created to eradicate the social inequalities and disadvantages faced by peoples of the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes. Nehru also championed secularism and religious harmony, increasing the representation of minorities in government.\n\nNehru led the faction of the Congress party which promoted Hindi as the lingua-franca of the Indian nation. After an exhaustive and divisive debate with the non-Hindi speakers, Hindi was adopted as the official language of India in 1950 with English continuing as an associate official language for a period of fifteen years, after which Hindi would become the sole official language. Efforts by the Indian Government to make Hindi the sole official language after 1965 were not acceptable to many non-Hindi Indian states, who wanted the continued use of English. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), a descendant of Dravidar Kazhagam, led the opposition to Hindi. To allay their fears, Nehru enacted the Official Languages Act in 1963 to ensure the continuing use of English beyond 1965. The text of the Act did not satisfy the DMK and increased their scepticism that his assurances might not be honoured by future administrations. The issue was resolved during the premiership of Lal Bahadur Shastri, who under great pressure from Nehru's daughter, Indira Gandhi, was made to give assurances that English would continue to be used as the official language as long the non-Hindi speaking states wanted. The Official Languages Act was eventually amended in 1967 by the Congress Government headed by Indira Gandhi to guarantee the indefinite use of Hindi and English as official languages. This effectively ensured the current \"virtual indefinite policy of bilingualism\" of the Indian Republic.\n\nNehru led newly independent India from 1947 to 1964, during its first years of independence from British rule. Both the United States and the Soviet Union competed to make India an ally throughout the Cold War. Nehru also maintained good relations with the British Empire. Under the London Declaration, India agreed that, when it became a republic in January 1950, it would join the Commonwealth of Nations and accept the British monarch as a \"symbol of the free association of its independent member nations and as such the Head of the Commonwealth.\" The other nations of the Commonwealth recognised India's continuing membership of the association. The reaction back home was favourable; only the far-left and the far-right criticised Nehru's decision.\n\nOn the international scene, Nehru was a champion of pacifism and a strong supporter of the United Nations. He pioneered the policy of non-alignment and co-founded the Non-Aligned Movement of nations professing neutrality between the rival blocs of nations led by the US and the USSR. Recognising the People's Republic of China soon after its founding (while most of the Western bloc continued relations with Taiwan), Nehru argued for its inclusion in the United Nations and refused to brand the Chinese as the aggressors in their conflict with Korea. He sought to establish warm and friendly relations with China in 1950, and hoped to act as an intermediary to bridge the gulf and tensions between the communist states and the Western bloc.\n\nNehru, while a pacifist, was not blind to the political and geostrategic reality of India in 1947. While laying the foundation stone of the National Defence Academy in 1949, he stated: \"We, who for generations had talked about and attempted in everything a peaceful way and practised non-violence, should now be, in a sense, glorifying our army, navy and air force. It means a lot. Though it is odd, yet it simply reflects the oddness of life. Though life is logical, we have to face all contingencies, and unless we are prepared to face them, we will go under. There was no greater prince of peace and apostle of non-violence than Mahatma Gandhi, the Father of the Nation, whom we have lost, but yet, he said it was better to take the sword than to surrender, fail or run away. We cannot live carefree assuming that we are safe. Human nature is such. We cannot take the risks and risk our hard-won freedom. We have to be prepared with all modern defense methods and a well-equipped army, navy and air force.\"\n\nNehru envisioned the development of nuclear weapons and established the Atomic Energy Commission of India in 1948.<ref name=\"http://nuclearweaponarchive.org\"></ref> Nehru also called Dr. Homi J. Bhabha, a nuclear physicist, who was entrusted with complete authority over all nuclear-related affairs and programs and answered only to Nehru himself. Indian nuclear policy was set by unwritten personal understanding between Nehru and Bhabha. Nehru famously said to Bhabha, \"Professor Bhabha take care of Physics, leave international relation to me\". From the outset in 1948, Nehru had high ambition to develop this program to stand against the industrialised states, and to establish a nuclear weapons capability as part of India's regional superiority to other South-Asian states, most particularly Pakistan. Nehru also told Bhabha, and later it was told by Bhabha to Raja Rammanna, that: \"We must have the capability. We should first prove ourselves and then talk of Gandhi, non-violence and a world without nuclear weapons\".\"\"\n\nNehru was hailed by many for working to defuse global tensions and the threat of nuclear weapons after the Korean War (1950–1953). He commissioned the first study of the effects of nuclear explosions on human health, and campaigned ceaselessly for the abolition of what he called \"these frightful engines of destruction\". He also had pragmatic reasons for promoting de-nuclearisation, fearing that a nuclear arms race would lead to over-militarisation that would be unaffordable for developing countries such as his own.\n\nAt Lord Mountbatten's urging Nehru had promised in 1948 to hold a referendum in Kashmir under the auspices of the UN. Kashmir was a disputed territory between India and Pakistan, the two having gone to war with each other over the state in 1947. However, as Pakistan failed to pull back troops in accordance with the UN resolution, and as Nehru grew increasingly wary of the UN, he declined to hold a plebiscite in 1953. His policies on Kashmir and the integration of the state into India were frequently defended in front of the United Nations by his aide, V. K. Krishna Menon, who earned a reputation in India for his passionate speeches.\n\nNehru ordered the arrest of the Kashmiri politician Sheikh Abdullah in 1953, whom he had previously supported but now suspected of harbouring separatist ambitions; Bakshi Ghulam Mohammad replaced him.\n\nIn 1957, Menon was instructed to deliver an unprecedented eight-hour speech defending India's stand on Kashmir; to date, the speech is the longest ever delivered in the United Nations Security Council, covering five hours of the 762nd meeting on 23 January, and two hours and forty-eight minutes on the 24th, reportedly concluding with Menon's collapse on the Security Council floor. During the filibuster, Nehru moved swiftly and successfully to consolidate Indian power in Kashmir (then under great unrest). Menon's passionate defence of Indian sovereignty in Kashmir enlarged his base of support in India, and led to the Indian press temporarily dubbing him the \"Hero of Kashmir\". Nehru was then at the peak of his popularity in India; the only (minor) criticism came from the far-right.\n\nIn 1954, Nehru signed with China the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence, known in India as the Panchsheel (from the Sanskrit words, panch: five, sheel: virtues), a set of principles to govern relations between the two states. Their first formal codification in treaty form was in an agreement between China and India in 1954. They were enunciated in the preamble to the \"Agreement (with exchange of notes) on trade and intercourse between Tibet Region of China and India\", which was signed at Peking on 29 April 1954. Negotiations took place in Delhi from December 1953 to April 1954 between the Delegation of the PRC Government and the Delegation of the Indian Government on the relations between the two countries with respect to the disputed territories of Aksai Chin and South Tibet. By 1957, Chinese premier Zhou Enlai had also succeeded in persuading Nehru to accept the Chinese position on Tibet, thus depriving Tibet of a possible ally, and of the possibility of receiving military aid from India. The treaty was disregarded in the 1960s, but in the 1970s, the Five Principles again came to be seen as important in China–India relations, and more generally as norms of relations between states. They became widely recognised and accepted throughout the region during the premiership of Indira Gandhi and the 3-year rule of the Janata Party (1977–1980). Although the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence were the basis of the 1954 Sino-Indian border treaty, in later years, Nehru's foreign policy suffered from increasing Chinese assertiveness over border disputes and Nehru's decision to grant asylum to the 14th Dalai Lama.\n\nIn 1956, Nehru had criticised the joint invasion of the Suez Canal by the British, French and Israelis. The role of Nehru, both as Indian Prime Minister and a leader of the Non-Aligned Movement was significant; he tried to be even-handed between the two sides, while denouncing Eden and co-sponsors of the invasion vigorously. Nehru had a powerful ally in the US president Dwight Eisenhower who, if relatively silent publicly, went to the extent of using America's clout in the International Monetary Fund to make Britain and France back down. The episode greatly raised the prestige of Nehru and India among the third world nations. During the Suez crisis, Nehru's right-hand man, Menon attempted to persuade a recalcitrant Gamal Nasser to compromise with the West, and was instrumental in moving Western powers towards an awareness that Nasser might prove willing to compromise.\n\nThe US had hoped to court Nehru after its intervention in favour of Nasser during the Suez crisis. However, Cold War suspicions and the American distrust of Nehruvian socialism cooled relations between India and the US, which suspected Nehru of tacitly supporting the Soviet Union. Nehru maintained good relations with Britain even after the Suez Crisis. Nehru accepted the arbitration of the UK and World Bank, signing the Indus Waters Treaty in 1960 with Pakistani ruler Ayub Khan to resolve long-standing disputes about sharing the resources of the major rivers of the Punjab region.\n\nAfter years of failed negotiations, Nehru authorised the Indian Army to invade Portuguese controlled Goa in 1961, and then he formally annexed it to India. It increased his popularity in India, but he was criticised by the communist opposition in India for the use of military force. The use of military force against Portugal earned him goodwill among the right-wing and far-right groups.\n\nDag Hammarskjöld, the second Secretary-General of the United Nations, opined his comparison of Nehru and Chinese Premier Zhou Enlai to Alexander Grantham, saying that while Nehru was superior from a moral point of view, Zhou Enlai was more skilled in realpolitik.\n\nFrom 1959, in a process that accelerated in 1961, Nehru adopted the \"Forward Policy\" of setting up military outposts in disputed areas of the Sino-Indian border, including in 43 outposts in territory not previously controlled by India. China attacked some of these outposts, and thus the Sino-Indian War began, which India lost, and China withdrew to pre-war lines in eastern zone at Tawang but retained Aksai Chin which was within British India and was handed over to India after independence. Later, Pakistan handed over some portion of Kashmir near Siachen controlled by Pakistan since 1948 to China. The war exposed the unpreparedness of India's military which could send only 14,000 troops to the war zone in opposition to the many times larger Chinese army, and Nehru was widely criticised for his government's insufficient attention to defence. In response, Nehru sacked the defence minister V. K. Krishna Menon and sought US military aid. Nehru's improved relations with the US under John F. Kennedy proved useful during the war, as in 1962, President of Pakistan (then closely aligned with the Americans) Ayub Khan was made to guarantee his neutrality in regards to India, who was threatened by \"communist aggression from Red China\". The Indian relationship with the Soviet Union, criticised by right-wing groups supporting free-market policies was also seemingly validated. Nehru would continue to maintain his commitment to the non-aligned movement despite calls from some to settle down on one permanent ally.\n\nThe aftermath of the war saw sweeping changes in the Indian military to prepare it for similar conflicts in the future, and placed pressure on Nehru, who was seen as responsible for failing to anticipate the Chinese attack on India. Under American advice (by American envoy John Kenneth Galbraith who made and ran American policy on the war as all other top policy makers in the US were absorbed in coincident Cuban Missile Crisis) Nehru refrained, not according to the best choices available, from using the Indian air force to beat back the Chinese advances. The CIA later revealed that at that time the Chinese had neither the fuel nor runways long enough for using their air force effectively in Tibet. Indians, in general, became highly sceptical of China and its military. Many Indians view the war as a betrayal of India's attempts at establishing a long-standing peace with China and started to question Nehru's usage of the term \"Hindi-Chini bhai-bhai\" (meaning \"Indians and Chinese are brothers\"). The war also put an end to Nehru's earlier hopes that India and China would form a strong Asian Axis to counteract the increasing influence of the Cold War bloc superpowers.\n\nThe unpreparedness of the army was blamed on Defence Minister Menon, who \"resigned\" his government post to allow for someone who might modernise India's military further. India's policy of weaponisation via indigenous sources and self-sufficiency began in earnest under Nehru, completed by his daughter Indira Gandhi, who later led India to a crushing military victory over rival Pakistan in 1971. Toward the end of the war India had increased her support for Tibetan refugees and revolutionaries, some of them having settled in India, as they were fighting the same common enemy in the region. Nehru ordered the raising of an elite Indian-trained \"Tibetan Armed Force\" composed of Tibetan refugees, which served with distinction in future wars against Pakistan in 1965 and 1971.\n\nDuring the conflict, Nehru wrote two desperate letters to US President John F. Kennedy, requesting 12 squadrons of fighter jets and a modern radar system. These jets were seen as necessary to beef up Indian air strength so that air-to-air combat could be initiated safely from the Indian perspective (bombing troops was seen as unwise for fear of Chinese retaliatory action). Nehru also asked that these aircraft be manned by American pilots until Indian airmen were trained to replace them. These requests were rejected by the Kennedy Administration (which was involved in the Cuban Missile Crisis during most of the Sino-Indian War), leading to a cool down in Indo-US relations. According to former Indian diplomat G Parthasarathy, \"only after we got nothing from the US did arms supplies from the Soviet Union to India commence\". Per \"Time\" Magazine's 1962 editorial on the war, however, this may not have been the case. The editorial states, 'When Washington finally turned its attention to India, it honoured the ambassador's pledge, loaded 60 US planes with $5,000,000 worth of automatic weapons, heavy mortars and land mines. Twelve huge C-130 Hercules transports, complete with US crews and maintenance teams, took off for New Delhi to fly Indian troops and equipment to the battle zone. Britain weighed in with Bren and Sten guns, and airlifted 150 tons of arms to India. Canada prepared to ship six transport planes. Australia opened Indian credits for $1,800,000 worth of munitions'.\n\nNehru's health began declining steadily after 1962, and he spent months recuperating in Kashmir through 1963. Some historians attribute this dramatic decline to his surprise and chagrin over the Sino-Indian War, which he perceived as a betrayal of trust. Upon his return from Dehradun on 26 May 1964 he was feeling quite comfortable and went to bed at about 23:30 as usual, he had a restful night until about 06:30 soon after he returned from bathroom, Nehru complained of pain in the back. He spoke to the doctors who attended on him for a brief while and almost immediately Nehru collapsed. He remained unconscious until he died. His death was announced to Lok Sabha at 14:00 local time on 27 May 1964 (same day); cause of death is believed to be heart attack. Draped in the Indian national Tri-colour flag the body of Jawaharlal Nehru was placed for public viewing. \"Raghupati Raghava Rajaram\" was chanted as the body was placed on the platform. On 28 May, Nehru was cremated in accordance with Hindu rites at the Shantivan on the banks of the Yamuna, witnessed by 1.5 million mourners who had flocked into the streets of Delhi and the cremation grounds.\n\nNehru, the man and politician made such a powerful imprint on India that his death on 27 May 1964, left India with no clear political heir to his leadership (later Lal Bahadur Shastri succeeded him as the Prime Minister). The death was announced to the Indian parliament in words similar to Nehru's own at the time of Gandhi's assassination: \"The light is out.\"\n\nNehru married Kamala Kaul in 1916. Their only daughter Indira was born a year later in 1917. Kamala gave birth to a boy in November 1924, but he lived for only a week. Indira married Feroze Gandhi in 1942. They had two sons – Rajiv (b. 1944) and Sanjay (b. 1946).\n\nAfter Kamala's death, Nehru, as a widower, was alleged to have had relationships with many women. These included Shraddha Mata, Padmaja Naidu and Edwina Mountbatten. Edwina's daughter Pamela acknowledged Nehru's platonic relationship with Edwina. Nehru took the personal decision to send an Indian Navy frigate to the sea burial of Edwina Mountbatten in 1960. Nehru's sister, Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit told Pupul Jayakar, Indira Gandhi's friend and biographer, that Padmaja Naidu and Nehru lived together for many years.\nDuring most of Nehru's tenure as the prime minister, Indira served her father unofficially as a personal assistant. Towards the end of the 1950s, Indira Gandhi served as the President of the Congress. In that capacity, she was instrumental in getting the Communist led Kerala State Government dismissed in 1959.\n\nDescribed as Hindu Agnostic, and styling himself as a \"scientific humanist\", Nehru thought that religious taboos were preventing India from going forward and adapting to modern conditions: \"No country or people who are slaves to dogma and dogmatic mentality can progress, and unhappily our country and people have become extraordinarily dogmatic and little-minded.\"\n\nIn his autobiography, he analysed Christianity and Islam, and their impact on India. He wanted to model India as a secular country; his secularist policies remain a subject of debate.\n\nAs India's first Prime minister and external affairs minister, Jawaharlal Nehru played a major role in shaping modern India's government and political culture along with sound foreign policy. He is praised for creating a system providing universal primary education, reaching children in the farthest corners of rural India. Nehru's education policy is also credited for the development of world-class educational institutions such as the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Indian Institutes of Technology, and the Indian Institutes of Management.\n\nIn addition, Nehru's stance as an unfailing nationalist led him to also implement policies which stressed commonality among Indians while still appreciating regional diversities. This proved particularly important as post-Independence differences surfaced since British withdrawal from the subcontinent prompted regional leaders to no longer relate to one another as allies against a common adversary. While differences of culture and, especially, language threatened the unity of the new nation, Nehru established programs such as the National Book Trust and the National Literary Academy which promoted the translation of regional literatures between languages and also organised the transfer of materials between regions. In pursuit of a single, unified India, Nehru warned, \"Integrate or perish.\"\n\nHistorian Ramachandra Guha writes, \"[had] Nehru retired in 1958 he would be remembered as not just India's best prime minister, but as one of the great statesmen of the modern world.\" Nehru, thus, left behind a disputed legacy, being \"either adored or reviled for India's progress or lack of it\".\n\nIn his lifetime, Jawaharlal Nehru enjoyed an iconic status in India and was widely admired across the world for his idealism and statesmanship. His birthday, 14 November is celebrated in India as \"Bal Divas\" (\"Children's Day\") in recognition of his lifelong passion and work for the welfare, education and development of children and young people. Children across India remember him as \"Chacha Nehru\" (Uncle Nehru). Nehru remains a popular symbol of the Congress Party which frequently celebrates his memory. Congress leaders and activists often emulate his style of clothing, especially the \"Gandhi cap\" and the \"Nehru jacket\", and his mannerisms. Nehru's ideals and policies continue to shape the Congress Party's manifesto and core political philosophy. An emotional attachment to his legacy was instrumental in the rise of his daughter Indira to leadership of the Congress Party and the national government.\n\nNehru's personal preference for the sherwani ensured that it continues to be considered formal wear in North India today; aside from lending his name to a kind of cap, the Nehru jacket is named in his honour because of his preference for that style.\n\nNumerous public institutions and memorials across India are dedicated to Nehru's memory. The Jawaharlal Nehru University in Delhi is among the most prestigious universities in India. The Jawaharlal Nehru Port near the city of Mumbai is a modern port and dock designed to handle a huge cargo and traffic load. Nehru's residence in Delhi is preserved as the Teen Murti House now has Nehru Memorial Museum & Library, and one of five Nehru Planetariums that were set in Mumbai, Delhi, Bangalore, Allahabad and Pune. The complex also houses the offices of the 'Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Fund', established in 1964 under the Chairmanship of Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, then President of India. The foundation also gives away the prestigious 'Jawaharlal Nehru Memorial Fellowship', established in 1968. The Nehru family homes at Anand Bhavan and Swaraj Bhavan are also preserved to commemorate Nehru and his family's legacy.\n\nMany documentaries about Nehru's life have been produced. He has also been portrayed in fictionalised films. The canonical performance is probably that of Roshan Seth, who played him three times: in Richard Attenborough's 1982 film \"Gandhi\", Shyam Benegal's 1988 television series \"Bharat Ek Khoj\", based on Nehru's \"The Discovery of India\", and in a 2007 TV film entitled \"The Last Days of the Raj\". In Ketan Mehta's film \"Sardar\", Nehru was portrayed by Benjamin Gilani. Girish Karnad's historical play, \"Tughlaq\" (1962) is an allegory about the Nehruvian era. It was staged by Ebrahim Alkazi with National School of Drama Repertory at Purana Qila, Delhi in the 1970s and later at the Festival of India, London in 1982.\nNehru was a prolific writer in English and wrote a number of books, such as \"The Discovery of India\", \"Glimpses of World History\", and his autobiography, \"Toward Freedom.\" He had written 30 letters to his daughter Indira Gandhi, when she was 10 years old and in a boarding school in Mussoorie, teaching about natural history and the story of civilisations. The collection of these letters was later published as a book \"Letters from a Father to His Daughter\".\n\nIn 1955, Nehru was awarded Bharat Ratna, India's highest civilian honour. President Rajendra Prasad awarded him the honour without taking advice from the Prime Minister as would be the normal constitutional procedure.\n\n"}
{"id": "4220933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4220933", "title": "Jax-Ur", "text": "Jax-Ur\n\nJax-Ur is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics, usually as an adversary of Superman. Created by writer Otto Binder and artist George Papp, the character first appeared in \"Adventure Comics\" #289 (October 1961).\n\nJax-Ur was created by writer Otto Binder and artist George Papp, the character first appeared in \"Adventure Comics\" #289 (October 1961).\n\nJax-Ur was an amoral and criminally deviant scientist on the planet Krypton. He was imprisoned in the Phantom Zone for destroying Wegthor, an inhabited moon of Krypton (population: 500), while experimenting with a nuclear warhead-equipped rocket. His sentence for his act of mass murder was imprisonment for eternity. He called himself \"the worst criminal in the Phantom Zone\".\n\nJax-Ur's intention was to launch a nuclear missile to destroy a passing space rock. If this test proved successful, Jax-Ur would then commence the build-up of a massive, privately held nuclear arsenal with which he would overthrow the Kryptonian government, and place the entire planet under his dominion. In the \"World of Krypton\" miniseries, his missile collided with a spaceship piloted by Superman's father Jor-El and went off-course to destroy Wegthor. Because of this, space travel was banned on Krypton.\n\nIn his first appearance, Jax-Ur escaped from the Phantom Zone and posed as a super-powered version of Jonathan Kent. Superboy eventually sent Jax-Ur back to the Phantom Zone. Most of his later Silver Age appearances show him in his ghostly Phantom Zone form, except during rare escapes. He was often depicted plotting against Superman with fellow Phantom Zone inmates General Zod and Faora Hu-Ul. Although he possessed typical Kryptonian super-powers when on Earth, the out-of-shape Jax-Ur was no match for Superman in combat.\n\nJax-Ur would later redeem himself somewhat by helping Superman defeat Black Zero, the alien saboteur who ensured Krypton's destruction under the orders of the Pirate Empire. It is shown he has a code of honor, as Kryptonian criminals swear by a master criminal who escaped a prison to help each other. Struck by a red kryptonite bullet that Black Zero had created, Jax-Ur began mutating through a series of serpentine forms, until he became a Medusa-like creature, and turned Black Zero to stone with his gaze before the villain could destroy Metropolis in revenge for Superman foiling his plan to destroy Earth. Jax-Ur then shattered Black Zero's body, avenging Krypton, and willingly returned to the Phantom Zone.\n\nJax-Ur did not appear after the Crisis on Infinite Earths for some time, as until the recent appearance of Supergirl there was a rule that no Kryptonians survived except Superman. On the occasions that a pseudo-Kryptonian villain was required, writers have usually gone for General Zod. At that time however, Jax-Ur's name was referenced in \"Superman: The Essential Guide to the Man of Steel\", suggesting he may have indeed existed but presumably had died either before or during Krypton's destruction since the Phantom Zone was used as storage rather than a prison.\n\nJax-Ur's first post-Crisis appearance is in \"Action Comics\" #846, written by Geoff Johns and Richard Donner. He is one of the criminals unleashed from the Phantom Zone by Zod. In the current continuity, Jax-Ur destroyed Krypton's moon during an attempt at interstellar space travel. When the moon was destroyed, a lunar colony of Kandor was lost as well, drawing the attention of the Coluan villain Brainiac to Kandor.\n\nJax-Ur reappears in \"Action Comics\" #875, as one of General Zod's \"sleeper Kryptonians\", who have adopted human identities to help further Zod's goals on Earth. He is using the cover of Dr. Phillings, and works for S.T.A.R. Labs as one of the world's top xenobiologists, while secretly conducting his own gruesome studies on Earth's lifeforms, as well as researching Kryptonian DNA to find links to the Flamebird and Nightwing entities. While in his \"Dr. Phillings\" identity he's tasked by the female Doctor Light to investigate Nightwing's accelerated aging. He manages to build a device tailored to regulate his growth and stimulate his solar-powered healing factor to reverse the body damage brought by his condition, but at the cost of some DNA taken from Flamebird.\n\nRecently, it was revealed that, like Chris Kent and Thara Ak-Var are avatars of Nightwing and Flamebird, respectively, so is Jax-Ur an avatar of their enemy, \"Vohc the Breaker\". Continuing his age old vendetta against the two demi-gods, Jax-Ur/Vohc uses the sample from Flamebird and his own ingenuity to create an artificial avatar-clone of the Kryptonian chief god, Rao, a terrifying weapon which he then unleashes upon the world. The combined entity is defeated by Flamebird and Nightwing burning Jax-Ur out of Vohc, leaving him for the Justice Society while the Rao clone is destroyed by Nightwing.\n\nIn September 2011, The New 52 rebooted DC's continuity. In this new timeline, Jax-Ur first appears among the Kryptonian criminals seen in the Phantom Zone and he claims to have destroyed a moon. Jax-Ur was fully introduced in the \"World of Krypton\" flashback segments, where he is depicted as a young military officer and Lara Lor-Van's partner and fiancé. Lara calls off their engagement when Jax-Ur reveals he supports Colonel Ekar, a commanding officer who deems Krypton's Science Council weak and self-absorbed and plans to overthrow it with a coup d'état. When Lara tries to fight Colonel Ekar and is defeated and caught, Jax-Ur tries to convince her to join their cause in order to save her life, but fails. General Zod intervenes, killing Ekar and smothering the revolution. Jax-Ur is imprisoned with the other surviving insurgents, promising Lara he tried to save her and reaffirming his love for her.\n\nLike all Kryptonians, Jax-Ur possesses superhuman abilities derived from the yellow solar radiation of the sun of Earth's solar system. His basic abilities are superhuman strength, superhuman speed and superhuman stamina sufficient to bend steel in his bare hands, overpower a locomotive, leap over a tall building in a single bound and outrun a speeding bullet; he possesses heightened senses of hearing and sight including X-ray vision as well as telescopic and microscopic vision; virtual invulnerability; accelerated healing; longevity; powerful freezing breath; heat vision; and flight. His powers are generally depicted as being on par with General Zod.\n\nJax-Ur is generally depicted as both a scientist as well as a military warrior. He is exceptionally intelligent in the areas of cloning as well as xenobiology; able to study Kryptonian genetics to determine connections between the respective Nightwing and Flamebird entities as well as how to create synthesized clones of avatars suitable to host the spirit of the red sun god Rao whom the Kryptonians worshiped. As a soldier, Jax-Ur is a competent military leader and hand-to-hand combatant with experience on the field of battle similar to General Zod and other imprisoned Kryptonian military dissidents.\n\nIn addition to his inherent Kryptonian abilities while beneath a yellow sun, Jax-Ur also served as a vessel for the alien god Vohc the Breaker. While merged and possessed by Vohc, Jax-Ur possesses increased superhuman strength as well as being vastly more intelligent with wisdom approaching virtual omniscience. Vohc was also immortal with a vastly superior healing factor rendering him effectively indestructible and possessed of divine power sufficient to place him on similar levels of godly power as the Olympians and other pantheons of Earthly deities. However, his powers were beneath Rao as well as Nightwing and Flamebird.\n\nSimilar to General Zod and other Phantom Zone escapees, Jax-Ur generally never experiences the full measure of his abilities as he is never allowed to spend any significant portion of time beneath Earth's yellow sun to charge and metabolize his cells with yellow solar radiation before being banished back into the Zone. As such, should he ever be allowed enough time to fully realize his abilities and potential, Jax-Ur's power levels would very likely approach or possibly surpass those of Superman as he is a fully mature Kryptonian male with exceptional natural physical prowess and experience in combat.\n\nLike all Kryptonians, Jax-Ur is vulnerable to Kryptonite and red solar radiation which neutralizes and cancels out the yellow solar radiation flourishing in his cells. His virtual invulnerability offers no protection from mind control or magic, nor can it fully withstand the force of an atomic explosion or the force of opponents with greater strength and durability such as Doomsday. His superhuman strength is inferior to beings such as Doomsday and his superhuman speed is inferior to Speedsters such as the Flash. Jax-Ur's intelligence does give him the advantage of utilizing his strength and speed to optimal performance.\n\nJax-Ur is featured as a symbol and martyr for violent Anti-Phantom Zone protestors who assault Kara Zor-El in the Superman story \"For the Man Who Has Everything\", written by Alan Moore and illustrated by Dave Gibbons. The protesters believe that Jax-Ur was unjustly convicted and consider the Zone to be cruel and unusual punishment, and thus have dedicated themselves to Jax-Ur's release - by any means necessary.\n\nIn the 2013 digital-first series \"Justice League Beyond 2.0\", taking place in the Batman Beyond Universe, Jax-Ur was revealed as the father of a young boy in the Phantom Zone who was using Kryptonian technology against an older Superman. He manipulated his son to crash a derelict Kryptonian ship into the sun using his telekinetic powers. This overexposed Superman's cells to the rays of the sun — the source of his powers —which caused his powers to become unstable. As a protection for humanity, Superman asked Micron to shrink to microscopic size and release a kryptonite solution into his body, removing his superpowers. When Superman decided to enter the Phantom Zone to find the one manipulating the numerous events, he discovered Jax-Ur and his son, Zod-Ur.\n\nJax-Ur reveals to Superman that he disrupted his powers knowing that Superman would trace the origin of the disruption to the Phantom Zone. Ur's son can control all Kryptonian technology with his telekinetic powers, except for the Phantom Zone Projector because it has too many safeguards. Superman would have been the only one capable of opening the Phantom Zone, except he had made Terry McGinnis, the new Batman, one of the authorized users of the Phantom Zone Projector before Superman went into the Phantom Zone. Jax-Ur wants to use Batman's body to unleash every last inmate of the Phantom Zone which will then pave the way for Jax-Ur to rule Earth. He tells Superman that Earth will \"die far more slowly and painfully than Krypton as its enslaved inhabitants spend their short, useless lives building a new Krypton, ruled by me.\"\n\nJax-Ur is defeated by Superman and Justice League Beyond.\n\nJax-Ur's son, Zod-Ur, decides to leave his father and become a citizen of Earth, and a member of the Justice League. It is later revealed that Zod-Ur is actually the son of Wonder Woman and Justice Lord Superman. He was created by the pair to end the worldwide civil war started by Justice Lord Batman and Justice Lord Superman. Zod-Ur was stolen from his gestational pod by Brainiac and given to Jax-Ur to raise. Zod becomes a good friend to Kai-Ro (Green Lantern), Terry McGinnis (Neo Batman), and Billy Batson (Captain Marvel/Shazam). His teammates find 'Zod' to be an unsettling name but Kal-El tells them being named 'Zod' on Krypton is like being named 'Bob' on planet Earth.\n\n\nJax-Ur appears in \"Man of Steel\", portrayed by Mackenzie Gray. He appears as one of General Zod's crew members and a lead scientist as well. When Superman is on Zod's ship, Ur manages to extract the Growth Codex (an ancient Kryptonian artifact that decodes the genetic makeup of the artificially incubated babies on Krypton, stolen by Jor-El who stored the Codex in Kal-El's DNA) from him. Jax-Ur is later sent back to the Phantom Zone, along with the crew, when a black hole is generated by the military.\n\nIn the novel \"The Last Days of Krypton,\" by Kevin Anderson, Jax-Ur is a historical villain in Krypton's past. He tried to take over the world and destroyed Krypton's moon, Koron, using a nuclear-like weapon called a \"Nova javelin\" which involved alien technology. In this version Jax-Ur is not sent to the Phantom Zone, not discovered for many years to come, but he is defeated by a coalition called \"The Seven Armies,\" led by Sor-El, ancestor to Jor-El. He is finally assassinated by a former minion, but his actions had dictated Krypton's policy towards alien or innovative science since, a factor in the events in the novel.\n\n"}
{"id": "4018054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4018054", "title": "Jerzy Petersburski", "text": "Jerzy Petersburski\n\nJerzy Petersburski (1895 – 1979) was a Polish pianist and composer of popular music, renowned mostly for his Tangos, some of which (such as \"To ostatnia niedziela\", \"Już nigdy\" and \"Tango Milonga\") were milestones in popularization of the musical genre in Poland and are still widely known today, more than half a century after their creation.\n\nJerzy Petersburski was born on 20 April 1895 into the well-known Warsaw family of Jewish musicians, Melodysta (on his mother's side). He graduated from the Warsaw Conservatory, where his professor was Antoni Sygietyński. Afterwards he moved to Vienna, where he continued his studies of conducting and at the faculty of piano of the local Music Academy. A talented pianist, he was persuaded by his friend Imré Kálmán to devote himself to popular rather than classical music. In Vienna he also debuted as a composer for Alexander Vertinsky, a renowned Russian poet and songwriter, famous for his romances.\n\nUpon his return to Poland, with his cousin Artur Gold, he co-founded the Petersburski & Gold Orchestra, which performed at the fashionable nightspot \"Adria\". He became well known for music for cabaret and theaters in Warsaw. Among them was Julian Tuwim's and Marian Hemar's \"Qui Pro Quo\", one of the most famous Polish cabarets of the interbellum. In late 1920s and 1930s, Petersburski became one of the most popular Polish composers as several of his songs became hits on Polish Radio and in music theatres throughout the country. Apart from Marian Hemar, the list of lyricists for his songs included some of the most renowned of their times: Andrzej Włast, Emanuel Szlechter, Ludwik Szmaragd and Artur Tur. Also the performers of Petersburski's songs added to his popularity: Wera Bobrowska (\"Już nigdy\"), Hanka Ordonówna (\"Sam mi mówiłeś\"), Tola Mankiewiczówna (\"Ty, miłość i wiosna\"), Ludwik Sempoliński (\"Cała przyjemność\"), Chór Dana and Mieczysław Fogg (\"Bez śladu\") and Adolf Dymsza (\"Ja i żonka ma\").\n\nDespite being the writer of numerous waltzes and foxtrots, as well as two operettas (\"Kochanka z ekranu\" and \"Robert i Bertram\"), Petersburski is best known for his tangos. In 1928 he composed a song for Stanisława Nowicka titled \"Tango Milonga\" in Polish. The song became a major hit and was almost instantly translated to several languages, gaining much popularity abroad, both in Europe and in America (the English and German title being \"Oh, Donna Clara\". The song was sung by many foreign artists, including Al Jolson, Henry Varny and Édith Piaf.\n\n\"Another of his tango compositions that attained international recognition was \"To Ostatnia Niedziela (The Last Sunday)\" (1933) with lyric by Zenon Friedwald describing the final meeting of former lovers who are parting. In Poland, \"To ostatnia niedziela\" is commonly and erroneously called the \"Suicide Tango\" - although the true Suicide Tango was the Hungarian art song \"Smutna niedziela (Gloomy Sunday)\". During the 1930s [Peterburski's tango] became an enormous evergreen in the Soviet Union, where it was played on virtually every street corner. It was so popular, that it was considered their own Russian tune.\"\n\nPetersburski also wrote music for four Polish films in the 1930s, including Eugeniusz Bodo's successful \"Królowa przedmieścia\" of 1938.\n\nDuring the September campaign (Polish Defensive War) of 1939 Petersburski served with the Polish Air Force. After the country was overrun, he moved to the Soviet-occupied part of Poland. In 1940 he was allowed to continue his career and became the leader of the \"Belarusian Jazz Orchestra\" band. He performed many of his pre-war hits with new, Russian language lyrics. Among the original compositions of that time was the very popular waltz \"Sinii Platochek\" (\"The Blue Handkerchief\", Polish title \"Blekitna chusteczka\") performed by Klavdiya Shulzhenko, which became a popular folk song under the name \"The 22 June\". Another of his popular Russian songs (performed by, among others, the Isaak Dunayevsky's Orchestra) was \"Utomliennoye solntse\" (Weary sun), in fact a Russian version of his pre-war \"To ostatnia niedziela\". See also Burnt by the Sun. He also reorganized the Petersburski & Gold orchestra, this time together with Artur's brother Henryk Gold.\n\nAfter the Sikorski-Mayski Agreement of 1941 he joined the Polish II Corps under Władysław Anders. Evacuated with the rest of the Polish Army to Persia, he moved to Cairo where he started working for the Polish Radio.\n\nIn 1947 he traveled, via Palestine, to Brasil, where he had a piano duo with his friend from pre-war Poland, also a Jewish composer, Alfred Schuetz. From 1948 to 1968 he lived in Argentina, working with 'Radio El Mundo' in Buenos Aires. During this time, he composed the hit song \"All Roads Lead to Buenos Aires\", part of which became a famous radio jingle. He also co-led \"the El Nacional theatre orchestra\" with the famous Polish-Jewish cabaret actor Lopek (Kazimierz Krukowski). After the death of his wife Maria Minkowska during the earthquake in 1967, Petersburski moved to Caracas, Venezuela and in 1968 returned to Poland. In 1968, after resettling in his beloved Warsaw, he married Sylwia Klejdysz, an opera singer. He died in 1979 in Warsaw. His son, Jerzy Petersburski Jr., was born in 1969.\n\nJerzy Petersburski died on 7 October 1979 in Warsaw and is buried in Powązki Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "4728789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4728789", "title": "John A. Thayer", "text": "John A. Thayer\n\nJohn Alden Thayer (December 22, 1857 – July 31, 1917) was a Representative from Massachusetts.\n\nHe was born in Worcester, Massachusetts. He was the son of Eli Thayer. He graduated from Harvard College in 1879. He studied law at Columbia Law School in New York City. He was admitted to the bar in 1889 and was a clerk of the central district court of Worcester from 1892 to 1897.\n\nHe was elected as a Democrat to the Sixty-second Congress from March 4, 1911 to March 3, 1913. He failed reelection in 1912 to the Sixty-third Congress. He was a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1912. In 1915, he was appointed postmaster of Worcester, and served until his death.\n\nIn mid July 1917 Thayer was admitted into the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston where he died on July 31, 1917.\n\n"}
{"id": "519482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=519482", "title": "John Dickinson", "text": "John Dickinson\n\nJohn Dickinson (November 8, 1732 – February 14, 1808), a Founding Father of the United States, was a solicitor and politician from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Wilmington, Delaware known as the \"Penman of the Revolution\" for his twelve \"Letters from a Farmer in Pennsylvania\", published individually in 1767 and 1768. As a member of the First Continental Congress, where he was a signee to the Continental Association, Dickinson drafted most of the 1774 Petition to the King, and then, as a member of the Second Continental Congress, wrote the 1775 Olive Branch Petition. When these two attempts to negotiate with King George III of Great Britain failed, Dickinson reworked Thomas Jefferson's language and wrote the final draft of the 1775 Declaration of the Causes and Necessity of Taking Up Arms. When Congress then decided to seek independence from Great Britain, Dickinson served on the committee that wrote the Model Treaty, and then wrote the first draft of the 1776–1777 Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union.\n\nDickinson later served as President of the 1786 Annapolis Convention, which called for the Constitutional Convention of 1787. Dickinson attended the Convention as a delegate from Delaware.\n\nHe also wrote \"The Liberty Song\" in 1768, was a militia officer during the American Revolution, President of Delaware, President of Pennsylvania, and was among the wealthiest men in the British American colonies. Upon Dickinson's death, President Thomas Jefferson recognized him as being \"Among the first of the advocates for the rights of his country when assailed by Great Britain whose \"name will be consecrated in history as one of the great worthies of the revolution.\"\"\n\nTogether with his wife, Mary Norris Dickinson, he is the namesake of Dickinson College (originally John and Mary's College), as well as of the Dickinson School of Law of Pennsylvania State University and the University of Delaware's Dickinson Complex. John Dickinson High School was opened/dedicated in 1959 as part of the public schools in northern Delaware.\n\nDickinson was born at \"Croisadore\", his family's tobacco plantation near the village of Trappe in Talbot County, Province of Maryland. He was the great-grandson of Walter Dickinson who emigrated from England to Virginia in 1654 and, having joined the Society of Friends, came with several co-religionists to Talbot County on the Eastern Shore of the Chesapeake Bay in 1659. There, with on the banks of the Choptank River, Walter began a plantation, \"Croisadore\", meaning \"cross of gold.\" Walter also bought on St. Jones Neck in what became Kent County, Delaware.\n\n\"Croisadore\" passed through Walter's son, William, to his grandson, Samuel, the father of John Dickinson. Each generation increased the landholdings, so that Samuel inherited on five farms in three Maryland counties and over his lifetime increased that to . He also bought the Kent County property from his cousin and expanded it to about , stretching along the St. Jones River from Dover to the Delaware Bay. There he began another plantation and called it Poplar Hall. These plantations were large, profitable agricultural enterprises worked by slave labor, until 1777 when John Dickinson freed the enslaved of Poplar Hall.\n\nSamuel Dickinson first married Judith Troth (1689–1729) on April 11, 1710. They had nine children; William, Walter, Samuel, Elizabeth, Henry, Elizabeth \"Betsy,\" Rebecca, and Rachel. The three eldest sons died of smallpox while in London seeking their education. Widowed, with two young children, Henry and Betsy, Samuel married Mary Cadwalader in 1731. She was the daughter of Martha Jones (granddaughter of Dr. Thomas Wynne) and the prominent Quaker John Cadwalader who was also grandfather of General John Cadwalader of Philadelphia. Their sons, John, Thomas, and Philemon were born in the next few years.\n\nFor three generations the Dickinson family had been members of the Third Haven Friends Meeting in Talbot County and the Cadwaladers were members of the Meeting in Philadelphia. But in 1739, John Dickinson's half-sister, Betsy, was married in an Anglican church to Charles Goldsborough in what was called a \"disorderly marriage\" by the Meeting. The couple would be the grandparents of Maryland governor Charles Goldsborough.\n\nLeaving \"Croisadore\" to elder son Henry Dickinson, Samuel moved to Poplar Hall, where he had already taken a leading role in the community as Judge of the Court of Common Pleas of Kent County. The move also placed Mary nearer her Philadelphia relations.\n\nPoplar Hall was situated on a now-straightened bend of the St. Jones River. There was plenty of activity delivering the necessities, and shipping the agricultural products produced. Much of this product was wheat that along with other wheat from the region, was milled into a \"superfine\" flour. Most people at this plantation were servants and slaves of the Dickinsons.\n\nDickinson was educated at home, by his parents and by recent immigrants employed for that purpose. Among them was the Presbyterian minister Francis Alison, who later established New London Academy in Chester County, Pennsylvania. Most important was his tutor, William Killen, who became a lifelong friend and who later became Delaware’s first Chief Justice and Chancellor. Dickinson was precocious and energetic, and in spite of his love of Poplar Hall and his family, was drawn to Philadelphia.\n\nAt 18 he began studying the law under John Moland in Philadelphia. There he made friends with fellow students George Read and Samuel Wharton, among others. By 1753, John went to London for three years of study at the Middle Temple. He spent those years studying the works of Edward Coke and Francis Bacon at the Inns of Court, following in the footsteps of his lifelong friend, Pennsylvania Attorney General Benjamin Chew, and in 1757 was admitted to the Pennsylvania Bar beginning his career as barrister and solicitor.\n\nIn protest to the Townshend Acts, Dickinson published \"Letters from a Farmer in Pennsylvania\". First published in the \"Pennsylvania Chronicle\", Dickinson's letters were re-printed by numerous other newspapers and became one of the most influential American political documents prior to the American Revolution. Dickinson argued that Parliament had the right to regulate commerce, but lacked the right to levy duties for revenue. Dickinson further warned that if the colonies acquiesced to the Townshend Acts, Parliament would lay further taxes on the colonies in the future.\n\nOn July 19, 1770, Dickinson married Mary Norris, known as Polly, a prominent and well educated thirty-year-old woman in Philadelphia with a substantial holding of real estate and personal property (including a 1500 volume library, one of the largest in the colonies at the time) who had been operating her family's estate, Fair Hill, for a number of years by herself or with her sister. She was the daughter of a wealthy Philadelphia Quaker, and Speaker of the Pennsylvania General Assembly, Isaac Norris and Sarah Logan, the daughter of James Logan, both deceased. She was also cousin to the Quaker poet Hannah Griffitts. Dickinson and Norris had five children, but only two survived to adulthood: Sarah Norris \"Sally\" Dickinson and Maria Mary Dickinson. Dickinson never formally joined the Quaker Meeting, because, as he explained, he believed in the \"lawfulness of defensive war\". He and Norris were married in a civil ceremony.\n\nIn Philadelphia, he lived at his wife's property, Fair Hill, near Germantown, which they modernized through their combined wealth. Meanwhile, he built an elegant mansion on Chestnut Street but never lived there as it was confiscated and turned into a hospital during his 1776–77 absence in Delaware. It then became the residence of the French ambassador and still later the home of his brother, Philemon Dickinson. Fair Hill was burned by the British during the Battle of Germantown. While in Philadelphia as State President, he lived at the confiscated mansion of Joseph Galloway at Sixth and Market Streets, now established as the State Presidential mansion.\n\nDickinson lived at \"Poplar Hall,\" for extended periods only in 1776–77 and 1781–82. In August 1781 it was sacked by Loyalists and was badly burned in 1804. This home is now owned by the State of Delaware and is open to the public. After his service as President of Pennsylvania, he returned to live in Wilmington, Delaware in 1785 and built a mansion at the northwest corner of 8th and Market Streets.\n\nDickinson was one of Pennsylvania delegates to the First Continental Congress in 1774 and the Second Continental Congress in 1775 and 1776. In support of the cause, he continued to contribute declarations in the name of the Congress. Dickinson wrote the Olive Branch Petition as the Second Continental Congress' last attempt for peace with Britain (King George III did not even read the petition). But through it all, agreeing with New Castle County's George Read and many others in Philadelphia and the Lower Counties, Dickinson's object was reconciliation, not independence and revolution. He was a proud devotee of the British Constitution and felt the dispute was with Parliament only.\n\nWhen the Continental Congress began the debate on the Declaration of Independence on July 1, 1776, Dickinson reiterated his opposition to declaring independence at that time. Dickinson believed that Congress should complete the Articles of Confederation and secure a foreign alliance before issuing a declaration. Dickinson also objected to violence as a means for resolving the dispute. He abstained or absented himself from the votes on July 2 that declared independence and absented himself again from voting on the wording of the formal Declaration on July 4. Dickinson understood the implications of his refusal to vote stating, \"My conduct this day, I expect will give the finishing blow to my once too great and, my integrity considered, now too diminished popularity.\" Dickinson refused to sign the Declaration and since a proposal had been brought forth and carried that stated, \"for our mutual security and protection,\" no man could remain in Congress without signing, Dickinson voluntarily left and joined the Pennsylvania militia. John Adams, a fierce advocate for independence and Dickinson's adversary on the floor of Congress, remarked, \"Mr. Dickinson's alacrity and spirit certainly become his character and sets a fine example.\"\n\nFollowing the Declaration of Independence, Dickinson was given the rank of brigadier general in the Pennsylvania militia, known as the Associators. He led 10,000 soldiers to Elizabeth, New Jersey, to protect that area against British attack from Staten Island. But because of his unpopular opinion on independence, two junior officers were promoted above him.\n\nDickinson resigned his commission in December 1776 and went to stay at Poplar Hall in Kent County. While there he learned that his home on Chestnut Street in Philadelphia had been confiscated and converted into a hospital. He stayed at Poplar Hall for more than two years. The Delaware General Assembly tried to appoint him as their delegate to the Continental Congress in 1777, but he refused. In August 1777 he served as a private with the Kent county Militia at Middletown, Delaware under General Caesar Rodney to help delay General William Howe's march to Philadelphia. In October 1777, Dickinson's friend, Thomas McKean, appointed him Brigadier General of the Delaware Militia, but again Dickinson declined the appointment. Shortly afterwards he learned that the British had burned down his and his wife's \"Fairhill\" property during the Battle of Germantown.\n\nThese years were not without accomplishment however. In 1777, Dickinson, Delaware's wealthiest farmer and largest slaveholder, decided to free his slaves. While Kent County was not a large slave-holding area, like farther south in Virginia, and even though Dickinson had only 37 slaves, this was an action of some considerable courage. Undoubtedly, the strongly abolitionist Quaker influences around them had their effect, and the action was all the easier because his farm had moved away from tobacco to the less labor-intensive crops like wheat and barley. Furthermore, manumission was a multi-year process and many of the workers remained obligated to service for a considerable additional time.\n\nDickinson was the only founding father to free his slaves in the period between 1776 and 1786. Benjamin Franklin had freed his slaves by 1770.\n\nDickinson prepared the first draft of the Articles of Confederation in 1776, after others had ratified the Declaration of Independence over his objection that it would lead to violence, and to follow through on his view that the colonies would need a governing document to survive war against them.\n\nAt the time he chaired the committee charged with drafting the Articles Dickinson was serving in the Continental Congress as a delegate from Pennsylvania. The Articles he drafted are based around a concept of \"person\", not \"man\" as was used in the Declaration of Independence, although they do refer to \"men\" in the context of armies.\n\nOn January 18, 1779, Dickinson was appointed to be a delegate for Delaware to the Continental Congress. During this term he signed the Articles of Confederation, having in 1776 authored their first draft while serving in the Continental Congress as a delegate from Pennsylvania. In August 1781, while still a delegate in Philadelphia he learned that Poplar Hall had been severely damaged by a Loyalist raid. Dickinson returned to the property to investigate the damage and once again stayed for several months.\n\nWhile there, in October 1781, Dickinson was elected to represent Kent County in the State Senate, and shortly afterwards the Delaware General Assembly elected him the president of Delaware. The General Assembly's vote was nearly unanimous, the only dissenting vote having been cast by Dickinson himself. Dickinson took office on November 13, 1781 and served until November 7, 1782. Beginning his term with a \"Proclamation against Vice and Immorality,\" he sought ways to bring an end to the disorder of the days of the Revolution. It was a popular position and enhanced his reputation both in Delaware and Pennsylvania. Dickinson then successfully challenged the Delaware General Assembly to address lagging militia enlistments and to properly fund the state’s assessment to the Confederation government. And recognizing the delicate negotiations then underway to end the American Revolution, Dickinson secured the Assembly's continued endorsement of the French alliance, with no agreement on a separate peace treaty with Great Britain. He also introduced the first census.\n\nHowever, as before, the lure of Pennsylvania politics was too great. On October 10, 1782, Dickinson was elected to the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania. On November 7, 1782 a joint ballot by the Council and the Pennsylvania General Assembly elected him as president of the Council and thereby President of Pennsylvania. But he did not actually resign as State President of Delaware. Even though Pennsylvania and Delaware had shared the same governor until very recently, attitudes had changed, and many in Delaware were upset at seemingly being cast aside so readily, particularly after the Philadelphia newspapers began criticizing the state for allowing the practice of multiple and non resident office holding. Dickinson’s constitutional successor, John Cook, was considered too weak in his support of the Revolution, and it was not until January 12, 1783, when Cook called for a new election to choose a replacement, that Dickinson formally resigned.\n\nWhen the American Revolution began, Dickinson fairly represented the center of Pennsylvania politics. The old Proprietary and Popular parties divided equally in thirds over the issue of independence, as Loyalists, Moderate Whigs who later became Federalists, and Radicals or Constitutionalists. The old Pennsylvania General Assembly was dominated by the Loyalists and Moderates and, like Dickinson, did little to support the burgeoning Revolution or independence, except protest. The Radicals took matters into their own hands, using irregular means to write the Pennsylvania Constitution of 1776, which by law excluded from the franchise anyone who would not swear loyalty to the document or the Christian Holy Trinity. In this way all Loyalists, Moderate Whigs, and Quakers were kept out of government. This peremptory action seemed appropriate to many during the crises of 1777 and 1778, but less so in the later years of the Revolution, and the Moderate Whigs gradually became the majority.\n\nDickinson's election to the Supreme Executive Council was the beginning of a counterrevolution against the Constitutionalists. He was elected President of Pennsylvania on November 7, 1782, garnering 41 votes to James Potter's 32. As president he presided over the intentionally weak executive authority of the state, and was its chief officer, but always required the agreement of a majority to act. He was re-elected twice and served the constitutional maximum of three years; his election on November 6, 1783 was unanimous. On November 6, 1784 he defeated John Neville, who also lost the election for Vice-President the same day. Working with only the smallest of majorities in the General Assembly in his first two years and with the Constitutionalists in the majority in his last year, all issues were contentious. At first he endured withering attacks from his opponents for his alleged failure to fully support the new government in large and small ways. He responded ably and survived the attacks. He managed to settle quickly the old boundary dispute with Virginia in southwestern Pennsylvania, but was never able to satisfactorily disentangle disputed titles in the Wyoming Valley resulting from prior claims of Connecticut to those lands. An exhausted Dickinson left office October 18, 1785. On that day a special election was held in which Benjamin Franklin was unanimously elected to serve the ten days left in Dickinson's term.\n\nPerhaps the most significant decision of his term was his patient, peaceful management of the Pennsylvania Mutiny of 1783. This was a violent protest of Pennsylvania veterans who marched on the Continental Congress demanding their pay before being discharged from the army. Somewhat sympathizing with their case, Dickinson refused Congress's request to bring full military action against them, causing Congress to vote to remove themselves to Princeton, New Jersey. And when the new Congress agreed to return in 1790, it was to be for only 10 years, until a permanent capital was found elsewhere.\n\nIn 1784, Dickinson and Mary Norris Dickinson bequeathed much of their combined library to John and Mary's College, named in their honor by its founder Benjamin Rush and later renamed Dickinson College.\nThe Dickinsons also donated 500 acres (2 km²) in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, land originally inherited and managed by Mary Norris, to the new college.\n\nAfter his service in Pennsylvania, Dickinson returned to Delaware, and lived in Wilmington. He was quickly appointed to represent Delaware at the Annapolis Convention, where he served as its president. In 1787, Delaware sent him as one of its delegates to the Constitutional Convention of 1787, along with Gunning Bedford, Jr., Richard Bassett, George Read, and Jacob Broom. There, he supported the effort to create a strong central government but only after the Great Compromise assured that each state, regardless of size, would have an equal vote in the future United States Senate. As he had done with the Articles, he also carefully drafted it with the term \"Person\" rather than \"Man\" as was used in the Declaration of Independence. He prepared initial drafts of the First Amendment. Following the Convention he promoted the resulting Constitution in a series of nine essays, written under the pen name \"Fabius.\"\n\nIn 1791, Delaware convened a convention to revise its existing Constitution, which had been hastily drafted in 1776. Dickinson was elected president of this convention, and although he resigned the chair after most of the work was complete, he remained highly influential in the content of the final document. Major changes included the establishment of a separate Chancery Court and the expansion of the franchise to include all taxpayers, except blacks and women. Dickinson remained neutral in an attempt to include a prohibition of slavery in the document, believing the General Assembly was the proper place to decide that issue. The new Constitution was approved June 12, 1792. Dickinson himself had freed his slaves conditionally in 1776 and fully by 1787.\n\nOnce more Dickinson was returned to the State Senate for the 1793 session, but served for just one year before resigning due to his declining health. In his final years, he worked to further the abolition movement, and donated a considerable amount of his wealth to the \"relief of the unhappy\". In 1801, Dickinson published two volumes of his collected works on politics.\n\nDickinson died at Wilmington, Delaware and was buried in the Friends Burial Ground.\n\nIn an original copy of a letter discovered November 2009 from Thomas Jefferson to Joseph Bringhurst, caretaker of Dickinson in his later years, Jefferson responded to news of Dickinson's death:\n\"A more estimable man, or truer patriot, could not have left us. Among the first of the advocates for the rights of his country when assailed by Great Britain, he continued to the last the orthodox advocate of the true principles of our new government and his name will be consecrated in history as one of the great worthies of the revolution.\"\n\nHe shares with Thomas McKean the distinction of serving as Chief Executive of both Delaware and Pennsylvania after the Declaration of Independence. Dickinson College and Dickinson School of Law (now of the Pennsylvania State University), separate institutions each operating a campus located in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, on land inherited and managed by his wife Mary Norris, were named for them. Dickinson College was originally named \"John and Mary's College\" but was renamed to avoid an implication of royalty by confusion with \"William and Mary.\" And along with his \"Letters from a Farmer in Pennsylvania\", Dickinson also authored \"The Liberty Song\".\n\nDickinson Street in Madison, Wisconsin is named in his honor, as is John Dickinson High School in Milltown, Delaware, and Dickinson Hall at the University of Delaware.\n\nDelaware elections were held October 1 and members of the General Assembly took office on October 20 or the following weekday. The State Legislative Council was created in 1776 and its Legislative Councilmen had a three-year term. Beginning in 1792 it was renamed the State Senate. State Assemblymen had a one-year term. The whole General Assembly chose the State President for a three-year term.\n\nPennsylvania elections were held in October as well. Assemblymen had a one-year term. The Pennsylvania Supreme Executive Council was created in 1776, and counsellors were popularly elected for three-year terms. A joint ballot of the Pennsylvania General Assembly and the Council chose the president from among the twelve counsellors for a one-year term. Both assemblies chose the Continental Congressmen for a one-year term as well as the delegates to the U.S. Constitution Convention.\n\nDickinson is a prominent character in the musical drama \"1776\", billed third after the parts of Adams and Franklin. He was originally portrayed on stage by Paul Hecht, and in the 1972 film adaptation by Donald Madden. Michael Cumpsty portrayed him in the 1997 revival. His portrayal in this musical differs substantially from reality: instead of abstaining from voting and debating, he acts as John Adams' primary antagonist in the debates over independence, to the point where the two men come to blows. His motivation in the musical is to convince the delegates to come to peace terms with Britain, rather than to seek reforms through civil disobedience and other nonviolent measures and for the colonies to mature before seeking independence. Also his wife Mary Norris does not appear in the musical at all, despite being present in Philadelphia at the time, whereas Abigail Adams and Martha Jefferson are heavily depicted, despite being in Boston and Virginia, respectively, at the time.\n\nIn Part II of the 2008 HBO series \"John Adams\", based on the book by David McCullough, the part of Dickinson is played by Zeljko Ivanek.\n\nAs portrayed in the 2015 miniseries \"Sons of Liberty\" Dickinson is shown continually speaking out against prematurely fighting the British and voting on the idea of a Declaration of Independence. He suggests a request first be made from the Continental Congress to the King of England, in the form of the Olive Branch Petition. The program gives no indication that Dickinson would author the petition. As the Congress votes on independence, the miniseries portrays Dickinson getting up and leaving the room without explanation, and no summary was given of his overall contributions to the American Revolution or what would become of him later.\n\nDickinson was honored with a brief mention in season 7, episode 4 of South Park, \"I'm a Little Bit Country\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31024375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31024375", "title": "Jordi Ramisa", "text": "Jordi Ramisa\n\nJordi Ramisa (born 6 October 1960) is a Catalan architect, a sculptor and a drawing professor.\nRamisa was born in Barcelona. In 1979 he obtained the \"Baccalauréat de l'Enseignement du Second Degré\" by the Academy of Toulouse and the Paul Sabatier University. He is a gradueate of the \"Escola Tècnica Superior d'Arquitectura de Barcelona\" (School of Architecture of Barcelona) (\" Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya\"), 1994. He is co-author, along with the sculptor Josep Ramisa, of the obverses of fifteen Barcelona 1992 Olympic Official Commemorative Medals. He has exhibited a medal called Olympic movement in the British Museum in the exhibition In the Round organized by the FIDEM (Fédération Internationale de la Médaille d'Art - International Art Medal Federation) in 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "7519604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7519604", "title": "Karen and Marcus Hilton", "text": "Karen and Marcus Hilton\n\nKaren Hilton, MBE and Marcus Hilton, MBE are a British dance couple, noted for competing in the disciplines of Ballroom and Latin American at both amateur and professional level. They have held a number of championship titles, including the World Professional Ballroom Championship, which they have won nine times representing Great Britain. They are patrons of the International Dance Teachers Association and both work as dance teachers, lecturers and competition judges.\n\nThe Hiltons first competed together in amateur dance competitions in 1978, achieving Championship titles in the UK for Latin American dance. They also competed in international events, representing Great Britain. In 1980, they took part in the United Kingdom Open Championship, qualifying for the World Amateur Latin American Championships in West Germany. They represented England at the event, achieving 5th place. They later achieved Championship wins in the European and World Amateur 10 Dance Championships.\n\nThe Hiltons became a professional dance couple in 1983, winning their first professional title at the British Rising Star Championship. The couple were married in 1986 and continued to dance professionally whilst giving demonstrations, teaching, lecturing and judging. In June 1997, both Karen and Marcus were awarded Membership of the Order of the British Empire in the Queen's Birthday Honours List. They competed professionally until their retirement in 1998, winning numerous Championship titles.\n\nThe following is a complete list of titles and awards won by the Hiltons:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33353755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33353755", "title": "Khabib Nurmagomedov", "text": "Khabib Nurmagomedov\n\nKhabib Abdulmanapovich Nurmagomedov (; ; born September 20, 1988) is a Russian professional mixed martial artist of Avar ethnicity. Nurmagomedov is a two-time Combat Sambo World Champion and the reigning undisputed UFC Lightweight Champion. He currently holds the longest undefeated streak in MMA, with 27 wins, and remains undefeated in professional MMA. Hailing from Russia's Dagestan region, he is the first Russian and the first Muslim to win a UFC title. As of October 8, 2018, he is ranked at No. 2 in the official UFC pound-for-pound rankings. His headline bout with Conor McGregor at UFC 229 drew 2.4 million pay-per-view buys, the most ever for an MMA event.\nKhabib Nurmagomedov was born on September 20, 1988, in the village of Sildi in Tsumadinsky District of the Dagestan ASSR, an autonomous republic within the Russian SFSR, Soviet Union, before moving to Makhachkala, the capital of Dagestan, in his childhood. Then briefly in his older years he moved to Kiev, Ukraine, where he trained at Combat Dobro. He is the second of three children, including an older brother Magomed and younger sister Amina. His father's family had moved from Sildi, Tsumadinsky District, to Kirovaul, where his father converted the ground floor of their two-storey building into a gym. Nurmagomedov grew up in the household with his siblings and cousins. His interest in martial arts began when watching students training at the gym.\n\nAs is common with many children in Dagestan, he began wrestling from an early age: he started at the age of eight under the tutelage of his father Abdulmanap Nurmagomedov. A decorated athlete and a veteran of the Army, his father had also wrestled from an early age, before undergoing training in judo and sambo in the military. Khabib's training as a child included wrestling a bear when he was nine years-old in 1997.\n\nIn 2001, his family moved to Machachkala, where he trained in wrestling at age 12, and judo from age 15. He began training in combat sambo again at 17 under his father. According to Nurmagomedov, the transition from wrestling to judo was difficult, but his father wanted him to get used to competing in a \"gi\" jacket. Abdulmanap is currently a senior coach for the combat sambo national team in the Republic of Dagestan, training several athletes in sambo and wrestling in Makhachkala, Russia. Nurmagomedov would frequently get into street fights in his youth, before focusing his attention on mixed martial arts.\n\nKhabib Nurmagomedov made his professional MMA debut in September 2008 and compiled four wins in under a month. On October 11, Nurmagomedov became the inaugural Atrium Cup tournament champion, having defeated his three opponents at the Moscow event. Over the next three years he would go undefeated, finishing 11 out of 12 opponents. These included a first round armbar finish of future Bellator title challenger Shahbulat Shamhalaev, which marked his M-1 Global debut. In 2011, he would go on to compete for the ProFC promotion. That year alone he competed in seven fights, all of which he won by TKO or submission. A perfect 16-0 record in the regional circuits of Russia and Ukraine was enough to get a call up from the UFC.\n\nIn late 2011, Nurmagomedov signed a six-fight deal to compete in the UFC’s lightweight division.\n\nIn his UFC debut, on January 20, 2012, at UFC on FX 1, Nurmagomedov defeated Kamal Shalorus via submission in the third round.\n\nNurmagomedov next defeated Gleison Tibau on July 7, 2012, at UFC 148 via unanimous decision.\n\nNurmagomedov next fight was against Thiago Tavares on January 19, 2013, at . He won via KO in the first round.\n\nNurmagomedov defeated Abel Trujillo on May 25, 2013, at UFC 160 via unanimous decision. At the weigh-ins, Nurmagomedov came in over the permitted limit, weighing in at 158.5 lb. He was given two hours to cut to the lightweight maximum of 156 pounds, but elected instead to surrender a percentage of his fight purse to Trujillo and the bout was contested at a catchweight. In the course of the fight, Nurmagomedov set a new UFC record for the most takedowns in a single fight with 21 successful takedowns out of 27 attempts.\n\nIn his fifth UFC fight, on September 21, 2013, at UFC 165, Nurmagomedov faced Pat Healy. He won the fight via unanimous decision. Attending his first post-event press conference, UFC president Dana White praised the relative newcomer stating, \"That slam, when he just scoops him up and slams him, Matt Hughes style. That reminded me of the old Matt Hughes where he would run a guy across the Octagon and slam him. The kid is exciting. We’re probably going to do big things with this kid.\"\n\nIn December, Nurmagomedov challenged Gilbert Melendez on social media, with the two then expected to face off at UFC 170 on February 22, 2014. However, the bout was cancelled for undisclosed reasons, with Melendez then replaced by Nate Diaz. However, the match-up was again cancelled as Diaz turned the bout down. Nurmagomedov expressed his disappointment, appearing on \"The MMA Hour\", \"If they say that they're willing to fight the best, they should fight the best. If they want, I'll take them both at once in the cage.\"\n\nNurmagomedov next faced Rafael dos Anjos on April 19, 2014, at UFC on Fox 11. He won the fight via unanimous decision.\n\nNurmagomedov was briefly linked to a bout with Donald Cerrone on September 27, 2014, at UFC 178. However, the pairing was quickly scrapped after it was revealed that Nurmagomedov had suffered a knee injury. He was later expected to face Donald Cerrone on May 23, 2015, at UFC 187. However, Nurmagomedov pulled out of the bout on April 30 due to a recurring knee injury. He was replaced by John Makdessi.\n\nNurmagomedov was expected to face Tony Ferguson on December 11, 2015, at . However, Nurmagomedov pulled out of the fight in late October, citing another injury, and was replaced by Edson Barboza.\n\nThe bout with Ferguson was rescheduled to take place on April 16, 2016, at UFC on Fox 19. However, on April 5, Ferguson pulled out of the bout due to a lung issue. Ferguson was replaced by promotional newcomer Darrell Horcher at a catchweight of 160 lb. Nurmagomedov won the one-sided fight by TKO in the second round.\n\nIn September, Nurmagomedov signed two contracts for a title shot against the reigning UFC Lightweight Champion, Eddie Alvarez, on either the UFC 205 or the UFC 206 fight card, with Dana White confirming the bout between the two for UFC 205. However, on September 26, the UFC announced that Alvarez would instead be defending the title against Conor McGregor. Nurmagomedov voiced his displeasure on social media, calling Alvarez a \"bullshit champ\" for refusing the fight and opting for a bout with McGregor instead, accusing the UFC of being a \"freak show\".\n\nIn lieu of a title shot, Nurmagomedov next faced Michael Johnson on November 12, 2016, at UFC 205. After being rocked in the first round, Nurmagomedov regained his composure and dominated the remainder of the fight, winning via submission in the third round.\n\nThe bout with Ferguson was scheduled for a third time at UFC 209 on March 4, 2017, for the interim Lightweight Championship. Nurmagomedov, however, fell ill because of a botched weight cut, and the bout was cancelled as a result.\n\nNurmagomedov faced Edson Barboza on December 30, 2017, at UFC 219. Nurmagomedov dominated all three rounds of the fight, taking Barboza down repeatedly and dominating the fight with ground and pound. He won the fight by unanimous decision. This win also earned him his first Performance of the Night bonus.\n\nA bout with Ferguson had been scheduled for the fourth time and was expected to take place on April 7, 2018, at UFC 223. However, on April 1, 2018, it was reported that Ferguson injured his knee and was to be replaced by Max Holloway. On April 6, Holloway was pulled from the fight after the New York State Athletic Commission (NYSAC) declared him unfit to compete due to extreme weight cutting, and replaced by Al Iaquinta. Only Nurmagomedov was eligible to win the championship, as Iaquinta weighed in 0.2 pounds over the championship weight limit. Nurmagomedov dominated the fight, controlling Iaquinta from start to finish, and won via unanimous decision to become the UFC Lightweight Champion.\n\nOn Friday, August 3, 2018, it was announced that Nurmagomedov would make his first defense of the UFC lightweight title against Conor McGregor at UFC 229 on October 6 in Las Vegas. At the event, Nurmagomedov defeated McGregor in the fourth round via submission in a largely dominant performance.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNurmagomedov married in June 2013. He has a daughter born 1 June 2015 and a son born 30 December 2017. He is a devout Sunni Muslim. He speaks several languages, including Avar, Russian, English, Turkish, and Arabic. He frequently wears a papakha hat, part of his Dagestani Avar culture, after fights and during promotions.\n\nHe has trained with SC Bazarganova in Kizilyurt, Dagestan (2012), K-Dojo, AMA Fight Club in Fairfield, New Jersey (2012), Mamishev Fight Team in Saint Petersburg (2012), Fight Spirit Team in Kolpino, St. Petersburg (2013), and KHK MMA Team in Bahrain (2015). In 2016, he co-founded his own team, \"Eagles MMA Team\", with Ziyavudin Magomedov. He is a fan of Anzhi Makhachkala and Real Madrid football clubs as well as the Russian national football team.\n\nNurmagomedov's appearance in \"EA Sports UFC 2\" generated some controversy, as his character crosses himself with the Orthodox Christian sign of the cross (right to left) upon victory, despite Nurmagomedov being a Sunni Muslim. EA apologized and said they would rectify the error.\n\nOn 3 April 2018, Khabib and Artem Lobov had a minor altercation, in which Nurmagomedov cornered Lobov. Lobov is known to be close to McGregor, with whom Nurmagomedov has had altercations and trash talk exchanges. The two groups have a lengthy history of insults and confrontations.\n\nOn 5 April 2018, during promotional appearances for UFC 223, McGregor and a group of about twenty others were let into the Barclays Center by credentialed members of his promotional team. They appeared to confront Nurmagomedov, who was on a bus leaving the arena with \"red corner\" fighters for UFC 223 on it, such as Rose Namajunas, Al Iaquinta, Karolina Kowalkiewicz, Ray Borg, and Michael Chiesa. McGregor ran up alongside the slowly moving bus and then ran past it to grab a metal equipment dolly, which he then threw at the bus's window, before trying to throw other objects in the vicinity. Chiesa and Borg were injured by the shattered glass, and sent to hospital. They were soon removed from the card on the advice of the NYSAC and the UFC's medical team. Lobov was also pulled from his fight for his involvement in the dispute.\n\nUFC president Dana White said there was a warrant out for McGregor's arrest, and the NYPD said McGregor was a person of interest. White claimed McGregor told him via text message: \"This had to be done.\" \"You can imagine he's going to be sued beyond belief,\" White said, and denied suggestions that the violence was a stunt intended to generate interest in the UFC. McGregor and others involved initially fled the Barclays Center after the incident. He and a fellow accused turned themselves in that night: he was charged with three counts of assault and one count of criminal mischief. He was further charged with menacing and reckless endangerment at his arraignment and released on $50,000 bail until 14 June 2018. Under the bail conditions negotiated by his then attorney, Jim Walden, and set by the judge, McGregor is allowed to travel without restriction. On 12 April 2018, McGregor hired lawyer Bruce Mafeo of Cozen O'Connor to represent him in this matter. McGregor pleaded no contest to a count of disorderly conduct and was ordered to perform five days of community service and attend anger management classes. On 12 September 2018, Chiesa announced a lawsuit against McGregor, saying that he \"experienced pain, suffering and a loss of enjoyment of life\" as a result of the attack.\n\nFollowing his victory over Conor McGregor at UFC 229, Nurmagomedov jumped the cage and charged toward McGregor's cornerman Dillon Danis, who provoked Nurmagomedov with trash talk from outside the cage. Soon afterwards, McGregor and Abubakar Nurmagomedov, Khabib's cousin, attempted to exit the octagon, but a scuffle broke out between them after McGregor punched Abubakar, who then punched him back. McGregor was then attacked by two of Nurmagomedov's cornermen, Zubaira Tukhugov and Esed Emiragaev. Zubaira Tukhugov, a Chechen fighter, was scheduled to fight on October 27, 2018 at against Artem Lobov, the McGregor team member who was confronted by Nurmagomedov in April 2018. Nurmagomedov's payment for the fight was withheld by the Nevada State Athletic Commission (NSAC) as a result, pending an investigation into his actions. Nurmagomedov appeared at the post-fight interview and apologized to the NSAC, saying he was provoked by McGregor's trash-talk and the UFC 223 bus incident, and adding, \"You cannot talk about religion. You cannot talk about nation. Guys, you cannot talk about these things. This is very important to me.\" He later posted on Instagram that he had warned McGregor that he would pay for everything he had done on October 6. Khabib's father, Abdulmanap Nurmagomedov, later said he had forgiven Conor McGregor for everything and invited him to Russia to train in combat sambo.\n\nThe NSAC filed a formal complaint against both Nurmagomedov and McGregor and on October 24, the NSAC voted to approve a motion to release half of Nurmagomedov's $2 million fight payout immediately. Both Nurmagomedov and McGregor received indefinite bans, at least until the official hearing, which is due to take place in December, 2018. The hearing is expected to determine the final disciplinary outcome of the post-fight brawl.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45010815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45010815", "title": "Kike Boula", "text": "Kike Boula\n\nEnrique Boula Senobua (born 17 January 1993), commonly known as Kike, is an Equatoguinean professional footballer who plays for Xanthi in Superleague Greece as a forward.\n\nBorn in Malabo, Kike graduated from UD Almería's youth setup. He made his senior debuts with the reserves in the 2011–12 campaign, in Segunda División B.\n\nIn the 2013 summer Kike joined another reserve team, RCD Mallorca B in Tercera División. On 11 July 2015 he signed for Linares Deportivo, newly promoted to the third level. On sumeer 2016, he signed with Greek Football League club Kissamikos. On 23 June 2017, Xanthi officially announced the capture of Equatoguinean international winger Enrique \"Kike\" Boula Senobua, who was released from Kissamikos.\n\nOn 3 January 2015 Kike was included in Esteban Becker's Equatorial Guinea 23-men list for the 2015 Africa Cup of Nations. Four days later he made his full international debut, coming on as a second half substitute in a 1–1 friendly draw against Cape Verde.\n\nKike's cousin Sena, was also a footballer. A midfielder, he too was groomed at Almería's youth system.\n\n"}
{"id": "49180635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49180635", "title": "Leila Ameddah", "text": "Leila Ameddah\n\nLeila Ameddah, ليلى أمداح (born 21 April 1962 Batna, Algéria), is an Algerian painter and sculptor.\n\nLeila Ameddah is a self-taught visual artist. She is a dentist, and lives and works in Batna. She has participated in several national and international exhibitions from 1984 until today. She is influenced by Berber culture.\n\nHer first exhibitions were during her student days, from 1983 to 1989. She has exhibited internationally:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36185565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36185565", "title": "List of Sotho-Tswana clans", "text": "List of Sotho-Tswana clans\n"}
{"id": "5164676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5164676", "title": "List of people diagnosed with cystic fibrosis", "text": "List of people diagnosed with cystic fibrosis\n\nThe following notable people have or had cystic fibrosis.\n"}
{"id": "52068884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52068884", "title": "Mosul Eye", "text": "Mosul Eye\n\nMosul Eye () is a news blog created and maintained by historian and citizen journalist Omar Mohammed. For more than two years, Mohammed used the blog to report conditions and events in the Iraqi city of Mosul during the occupation of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). During this time, \"Mosul Eye\" was an anonymous blog.\n\nMosul was liberated on July 10, 2017, after a battle that lasted for 9 months and 4 days. The blog is frequently cited as one of the few reliable sources documenting life under ISIL rule and has been called a critical source of information for journalists and scholars. Though anonymous, the blogger and his content were judged to be authentic by experts. On 7 December 2017, the blogger revealed his identity as Omar Mohammed. In other venues, Mohammed wrote under the pseudonyms Mouris Milton and Ibn al-Athir al-Mawsilli.\n\n\"Mosul Eye\" began on Facebook shortly after the ISIL invasion with the goal of keeping the world updated on what was happening in the city. The content is typically written in English and often Arabic, and is mirrored to a WordPress blog and Twitter account in case the blogger loses access to the Facebook page or it is censored.\n\nMohammed wrote extensively about ISIL's control of Mosul. One of his first posts contained this report:\n\nHe described not only the destruction of ancient buildings and burning of library books, but frequent executions and torture by ISIL militants, including beheadings, amputations, public floggings, the stoning of women and murder of homosexuals. In September 2015, \"Mosul Eye\" reported details on 455 executions, including the location, ethnicity and religion of the victims. The blogger also publishes information on ISIL members, including photographs of 10 ISIL fighters, calling them \"primary suspects\" and \"wanted for committing war crimes against the people of Mosul.\" The blogger also reports on coalition airstrikes against ISIL targets in the city.\n\nIn addition to ISIL activities, the blogger reports episodes of resistance against the regime in Mosul. \"Mosul Eye\" quotes residents and discusses their attitudes toward the militant group, writing in February 2015, \"Nowadays, people talk openly in the market about [ISIL] and its cruelty.\" The blog has also posted details about ISIL's struggles, such as the fighters going three months without a salary, and that there were foreign fighters as young as 13 years old among their ranks.\n\nAccording to a profile done by Al-Fanar Media, \"Mosul Eye\" \"takes a scientific approach to information, trying to gather, categorize and verify data. It also offers sociological and economic analysis, as when it explains how the Islamic State has drawn many of its members and support from a downtrodden rural tribe based outside Mosul; or how corruption, sectarianism and the American policy of de-Baathification, hollowed out the Iraqi army, leaving it incapable of standing up to the Islamic State.\"\n\n\"Mosul Eye\" has posted several updates on the preparations inside the city for the battle to liberate the city that began in October 2016, including ISIL activity and positions, and fears of a looming food crisis. On 2 November, the day after Iraqi Special Operations Forces finally entered the city, he tweeted urgently to coalition forces to warn them that a block of apartments was still occupied by civilians and had not been commandeered by ISIL, as was the rumor, and should not be targeted with airstrikes.\n\nThe blog also contains the author's personal thoughts on the future of the city as well as fears of being killed. As CNN noted, \"Sometimes, \"Mosul Eye\" has been rather matter-of-fact, but in recent days, as a bloody battle looms between Iraqi forces advancing on the city and the militant ISIS combatants, the writings have turned decidedly melancholy. A few hours ago, \"Mosul Eye\" listened to violinist Itzhak Perlman play a concerto on his Stradivarius. Music, banned by ISIS, helps keeps him alive, he said.\"\n\nOn 5 November, after Iraqi forces had begun fighting in the city, the blogger wrote of his despair at the scenes of death around him, including seeing children playing with corpses of dead ISIL fighters. He wrote that one of his close friends was decapitated by ISIL, \"Who will I lose next? What else will I see? I have seen and lived more than enough .. I have seen chopped heads, amputated arms, I have seen people thrown from the top of buildings, thrown over stones .. I have seen their souls trying to hold on to their bodies, but their bodies are so torn apart to hold their spirits. I saw those spirits wondering on the allies of this city!\"\n\nHe also wrote that they had begun installing bombs around residential buildings. \"ISIL is trapping the houses around us with bombs. We live on ticking bombs around us! If airstrikes and gunfire don’t kill us, those car bombs will soon do the job!\" He also commented on the ISIL militants wandering among the civilians: \"The faces of ISIL are no longer scare me; nothing scary about their faces. I see fear in their eyes, I hear their voices shouting through their chests, and I feel tgem \"[sic]\" say to their selves 'what the hell did we got our selves into?' ... At the same time, I see them like dead bodies walking on the ground.\"\n\nDuring the occupation, the blogger identified himself only as an \"independent historian\"; other journalists identified him as male. He said he considers himself a historian above all and that he is not a journalist. He began blogging after the U.S.-led invasion in 2003, but his previous blog has not been identified. He said he has used various aliases and identities to gather information and has received repeated online death threats from ISIL. In an interview with \"The New Yorker\", he said he feigns to be a devout Muslim who is enthusiastic about sharia law to gain the trust of extremists. He described ISIL militants as \"a group of bonkers [individuals], who could be guided in any direction.\"\n\nAccording to Al-Fanar, the blogger appears to be highly educated, making him an additional target of ISIL, which is suspicious of both religious and secular academics.\n\n\nhttps://www.iene.mediaset.it/video/il-blogger-testimone-dell-orrore_13013.shtml\n"}
{"id": "12952375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12952375", "title": "Nicolas Caito", "text": "Nicolas Caito\n\nNicolas Caito (born May 16, 1969) is a French patternmaker who works in New York City. According to \"Elle\" magazine, he is \"New York's most in-demand patternmaker\" and is often credited with increasing the level of technical craftsmanship in American fashion to a level formerly seen only in Milan and Paris.\n\nCaito was born and raised in the south of France. His interest in fashion was piqued during his youth when he observed the artistry involved in the construction of luxury clothing while traveling in Italy. He initially planned to enter the business side of fashion, and so in 1989, graduated from the Ecole Superieure de Commerce et de Management, Montpelier, with a degree in international business. After his uncle presented him with the opportunity for an apprenticeship at Lanvin, however, Caito changed career paths.\n\nAt Lanvin, Caito spent his first two years sewing linings and pockets as \"deuxieme main\". There, he climbed the ranks, eventually becoming \"premiere main qualifiee,\" a position in which he sewed detailed flourishes on the house's clothing.\n\nCaito later moved to Hermès for 18 months, and then to Rochas. At Rochas, he collaborated with designer Olivier Theyskens to develop some of the house's critically lauded designs.\n\nIn July 2005, Caito opened his own atelier in New York City. Since then, he has worked with some of New York's most talented designers, including Proenza Schouler, Thakoon, Zac Posen, Calvin Klein Collection and Ralph Lauren. He also appears in the Sundance Channel documentary \"The Day Before\" alongside Lazaro Hernandez and Jack McCollough of Proenza Schouler.\n"}
{"id": "20761251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20761251", "title": "Pavel Rychetský", "text": "Pavel Rychetský\n\nPavel Rychetský (born 17 August 1943) is a Czech lawyer and former politician who is the 3rd and current President of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic. The Senate confirmed him on 16 July 2003 and on 6 August 2003 he was sworn in by President Václav Klaus and reappointed in 2013 by President Miloš Zeman.\n\nBefore joining the Constitutional Court, Rychetský was the Minister of Justice and Chairman of the Legislative Council from 15 July 2002 to 5 August 2003 and also Senator from Strakonice from 1996 to 2003. Between 1998 and 2002 he served as vicepresident of Miloš Zeman's government.\n\nPreviously, he had a private law practice and held positions in the Government since early 1990s.\n\nRychetský was awarded the Légion d'honneur on 12 July 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "33279129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33279129", "title": "Pedro Almazán", "text": "Pedro Almazán\n\nDon Pedro Almazán, a wealthy leader from Ilocos Norte, led the first Ilocano revolt. With his effort, the Ilocanos turned out to be the first ethnic group outside Manila to rebel against the Spanish authority.\n\nPedro Almazán was angered by the severe injustice of the Spaniards. In protest against Spanish despotism and to expel the colonizers from his domain, Almazán planned of staging armed revolution. In preparation to his unstoppable scheme, he transformed a certain part under his house into a secret dungeon with a repository of shackles. He intended to chain all the Spanish soldiers and friars in the dungeon and would not release them forever. He was joined in his plot by Juan Magsanop, a leader from Bacarra, Bangui. To strengthen their scheme, Almazan suggested the marriage between his son and Magsanop's daughter.\n\nAlmazán was more convinced with his plans with news from Lieutenant Andres Malong's successful uprising in Pangasinan, which was now self-proclaimed king of the area by December 1660. When a mutiny ensued in La Union, a huge contingent of Spaniards from Ilocos went to support their besieged comrades. The Augustinian Friar José Arias, who was renowned for his viciousness, joined the party. The absence of Arias was seen by Almazán and Magsanop as the best opportunity for their brood's wedding, which was only a cover for their rebellion. And so, they set it for the end of the month. They sent to fellowmen in Laoag led by Gaspar Cristobal and the latter agreed to Almazán's plans for rebellion. Chieftains and warriors of Kalinga and the Isnegs of Cagayan also joined Almazán's party. They pledged their allegiance and full support to their newly installed king. The entire community jubilantly waved banners as they extensively celebrated the coronation of Almazán as King of Ilocos.\n\nIn January 31, 1661, the Dominican friar of Clavería, José Santa María, was distracted by a commotion outside the church. A frightened Spanish soldier rushed in and reported to the priest that a furious mob was causing the commotion. Ignoring the soldier, he went out of the church, only seeing himself caught up by the mob. He was beheaded after being attacked with knives.\n\nThe next day, as nine friars, including Arias, were celebrating in Narvacan, for the suppression of a big group of Zambal fighters, another aggression erupted in northern Ilocos. Despite the looming danger, no amount of dissuasion by his peers prevented Arias from hurrying back to Bacarra. At his arrival, he met people shouting Almazán as their King and rushed to get the friar but to no avail. Juan Boaya, one of the mutineers, agreed to help in the silent departure of Arias. He told the servants to take the friar to Laoag right away. The rebels, however, caught up with the friar. The warriors beheaded Arias and brought his severed head to Magsanop. Magsanop immediately delivered the head to Almazán and gave the King an account of the incident. Cristobal and all who participated in the insurrection were fetched for the celebration.\n\nPAG AALSA\n\nPag-aalsa [i-edit]\nNoong Enero 31, 1661, ang Dominican friar ng Clavería, José Santa María, ay ginulo ng isang pagkaguluhan sa labas ng simbahan. Ang isang natatakot na sundalong Espanyol ay nagmadali at nag-ulat sa pari na ang isang galit na galit na nagkakagulong mga tao ay nagdudulot ng kaguluhan. Hindi pinapansin ang sundalo, lumabas siya sa simbahan, nakikita lamang ang kanyang sarili na nahuli ng mga mandurumog. Siya ay pinugutan ng ulo pagkatapos na sinalakay ng mga kutsilyo.\n\nNang sumunod na araw, ang siyam na mga prayoridad, kabilang ang Arias, ay nagdiriwang sa Narvacan, para sa pagsupil sa isang malaking grupo ng mga Zambal fighters, isa pang agresyon ang sumabog sa hilagang Ilocos. Sa kabila ng namamalaging panganib, walang pag-asa ng mga kapantay ang pumipigil kay Arias mula sa pagmamadali pabalik sa Bacarra. Sa kanyang pagdating, nakilala niya ang mga tao na sumigaw kay Almazán bilang kanilang Hari at nagmadali upang makuha ang prayle ngunit walang magagawa. Si Juan Boaya, isa sa mga mutineers, ay sumang-ayon na tumulong sa tahimik na pag-alis ng Arias. Sinabi niya sa mga tagapaglingkod na dalhin ang prayle sa Laoag kaagad. Gayunpaman, ang mga rebelde ay nahuli sa prayle. Ang mga mandirigma pinugutan ng ulo si Arias at dinala ang kanyang pinahihirang ulo sa Magsanop. Ibinalik agad ni Magsanop ang ulo kay Almazán at binigyan ang Hari ng isang account ng insidente. Si Cristobal at ang lahat ng nakilahok sa insureksyon ay kinuha para sa pagdiriwang\n\nThe Spanish authorities sent Lorenzo Arqueros of Ilocos to wipe out Almazán and his men. Arqueros' troop consisted of a few Spaniards and more than a thousand native men, mostly collaborators. As Almazán and a few of his men were waiting for the arrival of a large number of supporters from Southern Ilocos, Arqueros and his troops staged a sudden attack and snatched from Almazán the opportunity to fortify his kingdom. Almazán and his men engaged in a running battle and had to gradually retreat to the forest. With the guidance of some native collaborators, the Spaniards trailed Almazán. Magsanop, who was caught up by Arqueros, decided to kill himself. Although greatly outnumbered by the enemy, Almazán's remaining troops continued fighting. In desperation, Almazán rode on his horse and courageously fought the Spaniards. Almazán was hanged at the town plaza. With the two leaders dead, the remaining warriors fled.\n"}
{"id": "31240580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31240580", "title": "People of Ya-Sin", "text": "People of Ya-Sin\n\nPeople of Ya-Sin is the phrase used by Muslims to refer to an ancient community who are mentioned in the Quran as the People of the City or the Companions of the City. The location and people of this city has been the subject of much scholarly debate in Islam.\n\nAccording to the Quran, God sent two prophets to this particular community. When the people of the city refused to hear their words, God sent a third prophet to strengthen them. The prophets told the people: \"Truly we have been sent on a mission to you\". The community mocked the message of the prophets and said \"Ye are only men like ourselves; and the Most Gracious sends no sort of revelation: ye do nothing but lie.\" The prophets, in reply, rebuked the community, saying: \"Our Lord doth know that we have been sent on a mission to you: \"And our duty is only to proclaim the clear Message.\"\n\nThe Quran goes onto say that the prophets were threatened with stoning and torture, but they refused to give in and continued to warn the people to end their sinful ways. Then, from the farthest part of the city, there came running a man who exhorted the people to believe the message and told them: \"O my people! Obey the messengers: \"Obey those who ask no reward of you (for themselves), and who have themselves received Guidance. The following verses, which describe the man's entrance in to \"the garden\" (Janah), which refers to Heaven, has been interpreted by some scholars to mean that the believing man was martyred for his faith.\n\nClassical commentators on the Quran popularly identified the \"People of the City\" with the city of Antioch. Those scholars who identified the city with Antioch, however, were divided over the date of the event. One group believed that this event took place after Jesus and explained that the Quran's use of the word \"messenger\" in this context refers not to three prophets but to three of Jesus's disciples who were sent to Antioch to proclaim the message. Those of this view further explained that the name of the martyr was Habib the Carpenter, who is also known as The Believer of YaSin. The disciples believed to have been sent were Peter, John and others. Other commentators who while still believed that the city refers to Antioch explained that this is the narrative of a far older incident and that the three \"messengers\" mentioned were indeed prophets, namely Saduq, Masduq and Shalum.\n\nBut another school of classical scholars, among them Ibn Kathir, rejected the identification with Antioch altogether. These commentators explained that the described town could not have been Antioch as the city was never destroyed, with no historical records recording such an incident. The other main reason that these scholars gave for rejecting this particular identification is that the term \"messengers\" almost always refers to prophets in the Quran and never does it refer to the disciples of a prophet. Most modern scholars, including Abdullah Yusuf Ali, rejected the identification with Antioch and stated that this identification was made with no real proof. Many scholars who rejected the identification did, however, link the narrative of the story with the preaching of Paul and Barnabas as described in Acts of the Apostles.\n"}
{"id": "2402234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2402234", "title": "Phil Mitchell", "text": "Phil Mitchell\n\nPhil Mitchell is a fictional character from the BBC soap opera \"EastEnders\", played by Steve McFadden. Phil was introduced to the soap opera on 20 February 1990, and was followed by his brother, Grant (Ross Kemp), sister Sam (Danniella Westbrook/Kim Medcalf) and mother Peggy (Jo Warne/Barbara Windsor). Phil is one of the major introductions made by executive producer Michael Ferguson, who wanted to bring in some macho, male leads. Phil and his brother Grant became popularly known as the Mitchell brothers in the British media with Phil initially portrayed as the more level-headed of the two thugs. Storylines featuring the Mitchell family dominated the soap opera throughout the 1990s, with Phil becoming a popular and long-running male protagonist into the 2000s and the 2010s. McFadden temporarily left the series in late 2003 then returned in April 2005 for a brief stint, before making a permanent return in October 2005. McFadden took a hiatus from the series at the end of Phil's liver cirrhosis storyline with the character departing on 6 February 2017. He returned on 24 July the same year. He was absent from the show from August 2018 but returned in November 2018.\n\nPhil's most prominent storylines include his battles with alcoholism and addiction, suffering from cirrhosis of the liver, various criminal dealings, having an affair with Sharon Watts (Letitia Dean) who was married to Grant (a storyline popularly dubbed \"Sharongate\"), a failed marriage to Kathy Beale (Gillian Taylforth), a strong rivalry with his former stepson Ian Beale (Adam Woodyatt), his numerous feuds with the likes of Steve Owen (Martin Kemp), Dan Sullivan (Craig Fairbrass), Dennis Rickman (Nigel Harman), Mark Fowler (Todd Carty), Archie Mitchell (Larry Lamb), Den Watts (Leslie Grantham), Johnny Allen (Billy Murray), Nick Cotton (John Altman), Janine Butcher (Charlie Brooks), Derek Branning (Jamie Foreman), Max Branning (Jake Wood), Jack Branning (Scott Maslen), Carl White (Daniel Coonan), Vincent Hubbard (Richard Blackwood), Gavin Sullivan (Paul Nicholas), James Willmott-Brown (William Boyde) and Luke Browning (Adam Astill), and being stalked by his son Ben Mitchell (Joshua Pascoe), leading to an arrest for the murder of Stella Crawford (Sophie Thompson), who physically and mentally abused Ben before jumping from a factory roof, and losing his mother Peggy to cancer. In 2016, Phil was revealed to be the father of Denise Fox's (Diane Parish) baby. One of the most culturally significant storylines featuring the character aired in 2001 and was dubbed \"Who Shot Phil?\". The plot saw Phil shot in a whodunit mystery, with the assailant eventually revealed as his former girlfriend Lisa Fowler (Lucy Benjamin). The storyline captured viewer and media interest and the culprit-reveal episode was watched by 22 million viewers.\n\nPhil and Grant arrive in Walford to open an automobile repair shop, known as The Arches. Two years later, Phil goes into partnership at The Queen Victoria public house with Grant and his wife Sharon Watts (Letitia Dean), and moves in with them. Phil grows close to Sharon, who turns to him for comfort during Grant's violent outbursts. Sharon and Phil have sex but she stays with Grant, who is unaware of their betrayal. Sharon and Grant's reconciliation is brief, and amidst more rowing and physical violence, Grant is arrested and imprisoned. In his absence, Phil and Sharon continue their affair but when Grant is released, Sharon reconciles with him, leaving Phil heartbroken. On the rebound, Phil enters into a marriage of convenience with Nadia Borovac (Anna Barkan), a Romanian refugee, enabling her to stay in Britain, with Nadia departing after the wedding.\n\nPhil begins a relationship with Kathy Beale (Gillian Taylforth), but Nadia returns, needing Phil to prove he is her husband to prevent deportation. She moves in with him while she is investigated. Nadia seduces and sleeps with a drunken Phil. He regrets it, denying it to Kathy so Grant threatens to kill her to make her leave but Phil later bribes her into agreeing to a divorce. Kathy agrees to marry Phil in 1994, despite discovering that he torched Frank Butcher's (Mike Reid) car lot in an insurance scam, accidentally killing a homeless boy trapped inside. Intent on winning him back, Sharon kisses Phil but he ends things there. During Phil and Kathy's engagement party, Grant listens to a cassette of Sharon admitting to the affair and plays it at the party. Kathy is incensed, and Grant beats Phil so badly that he has to go to hospital, due to a blood clot in his brain. Phil undergoes surgery, which stirs remorse in Grant. He pressures Phil into blaming Sharon for their affair and Grant forces her to leave Walford. Phil and Grant make peace but things between them are not the same.\n\nKathy and Phil eventually sort out their differences, marry, and have a son, Ben (Matthew Silver), making Phil feel neglected and depressed so he turns to alcohol and develops an addiction. This makes him abusive and neglectful towards Kathy and Ben, so Kathy takes Ben and moves out. Realising what he has lost, Phil gives up alcohol and attends Alcoholics Anonymous, which helps reveal the basis of his problem – the physical abuse he received from his father when he was a boy, and his fear that he may abuse Ben. He and Kathy reconcile when he attends counselling until he begins an affair with fellow alcoholic Lorna Cartwright (Janet Dibley), who starts stalking him. With his marriage in jeopardy, Phil takes Kathy to Paris and admits his affair with Lorna so Kathy throws her wedding ring into the river. Phil begins sleeping rough, gambling, and blaming Kathy for his decline so she decides to leave Walford for South Africa, letting it be known that an offer of reconciliation from Phil would make her reconsider. Phil is undecided until Lorna stops him going after Kathy by locking herself in his bathroom and attempts suicide. He later follows Kathy to the airport but is stopped by Kathy's son, Ian Beale (Adam Woodyatt), who persuades him that Kathy and Ben are better off without him. Phil agonises over the loss of his son.\n\nTo distract himself, Phil gets involved in a protection racket with Annie Palmer (Nadia Sawalha), who he is also having casual sex with, but grows tired of being bossed around by her and quits. He starts seeing Lisa Shaw (Lucy Benjamin), but the relationship stalls when Kathy returns briefly in 1999 and sleeps with Grant. Before Kathy returns to South Africa, she asks Phil to go with her but he declines as Grant has planned an armed robbery and Phil refuses to let him do the job alone. Infuriated by Phil's loyalty to Grant, Kathy reveals their recent tryst, leading to Phil confronting Grant and Grant's confession that he slept with Kathy as revenge for Phil's affair with Sharon. While trying to escape, Phil pulls out a gun and shoots at the dashboard, causing Grant to crash into the River Thames. Phil is rescued but Grant cannot be found, sparking fears that he is dead. However, it is soon revealed that he is alive, and he escapes to Brazil. When Grant sends Phil the deeds for his half of The Queen Victoria, he sells it to Dan Sullivan (Craig Fairbrass) for £5 to spite Peggy due to her favouritism towards Grant.\nPhil and Dan's friendship ends after Dan tells the police about a motor scam Phil was involved in and Phil cons Dan into signing the pub over to Peggy. Phil is unsupportive when his girlfriend, Lisa, has a miscarriage and he starts domestically abusing her by getting her sacked from her job and insists she stay at home. This makes her dependent on him so he moves on to her best friend, Mel Healy (Tamzin Outhwaite). Lisa is paranoid that Phil is having an affair and accuses Mel of being his other woman, which she is not, at that point. However, Mel is upset by Lisa's accusation and Phil comforts her, leading to a one-night stand. Mel, however, realises it was a mistake and reconciles with Steve Owen (Martin Kemp), making Phil jealous. Lisa decides that a baby will improve their relationship so stops taking contraceptive pills but Phil wants Lisa to leave him, not get pregnant, so he admits to Lisa that he and Mel slept together. Lisa leaves, keeping quiet about her pregnancy, so when Mark Fowler (Todd Carty) suggests they tell people that the baby is his, Lisa agrees. Phil now has many enemies: Lisa; Steve, who also knows about Mel and Phil's one night stand; Ian, who Phil bullies mercilessly; Mark, who wants to avenge Lisa; and Dan. On Steve and Mel's wedding night, Phil is shot and collapses in a pool of blood. Steve is the prime suspect and is arrested but Phil, knowing Steve is innocent, confronts the real culprit, Lisa, after he is discharged from hospital. Realising he drove her to it, Phil frames Dan. He is assisted by Ritchie Stringer (Gareth Hunt), who gives Dan the gun used to shoot Phil. Unaware that he is being set up, Dan holds Phil at gunpoint, demanding money until he is arrested for attempted murder. Steve is a witness at Dan's trial and gives evidence as agreed with Phil, further implicating Dan but he is cleared and seeks revenge by kidnapping Mel, threatening to kill her unless they pay him £200,000. Steve and Phil rescue Mel but Dan escapes with the money and is never seen again.\n\nPhil reconciles with Sharon when she returns in 2001 and they run The Queen Victoria together. Phil now wants children but Sharon reveals she is infertile due to botched abortion. She later admits that the baby she aborted six years earlier was Grant's. This puts a strain on their relationship and by Christmas they have separated, resulting in Sharon returning to the United States. Before Sharon leaves, she tells Phil that he, not Mark, is the father of Lisa's daughter, Louise (Rachel Cox). Phil confronts Lisa, demanding contact. Horrified at this, Steve and Mel ask Lisa and Louise to emigrate to California with them. She agrees but changes her mind and telephones Steve, asking him to return Louise. He refuses to, so Phil attempts to get Louise back, resulting in a car chase that ends when Steve crashes his car into a wall. Phil rescues Louise but the car explodes before he can help Steve, who dies in the inferno. Phil persuades Lisa to return to him and then makes it clear that it is Louise him and Peggy want, not Lisa. Phil and Peggy hire a nanny, Joanne Ryan, without consulting her, telling her that Lisa is mentally unstable. Phil demands that Lisa change Louise's name to Mitchell legally and organises a christening. Lisa agrees until some of Phil's relatives, assuming she is the nanny, start talking about how unstable Louise's mother is. Furious at this, she and Louise flee to Portugal, assisted by Phil's relative, Jamie Mitchell (Jack Ryder). Phil goes to Portugal and returns a month later with Louise, leading some of Phil's neighbours to suspect that he has murdered Lisa.\n\nPhil falls for Kate Morton (Jill Halfpenny), unaware that she is an undercover police officer investigating Lisa's disappearance. After Phil confesses that he manipulated Lisa to give him Louise, Kate reveals her true identity and says she loves him and will quit her job, but Phil threatens to kill her. Kate disappears, but several months later, Phil finds her working for gangster Jack Dalton (Hywel Bennett). Phil saves Kate's life when Jack orders her dead but Jack demands that Phil kill Dennis Rickman (Nigel Harman) as repayment. Phil corners Dennis at gunpoint but he convinces Phil not to kill him, so Dennis kills Jack instead, so they can both be free of him. Phil and Kate marry, but Lisa returns on their wedding day, demanding access to Louise and plans to shoot Phil again but fails. She breaks down until Den Watts (Leslie Grantham) vows to get revenge for her. Den (Sharon's father) has just returned to Walford, 14 years after he had supposedly been killed by a gangster on the orders of Jack Dalton. Den plans an armed robbery and persuades Phil to join him but sets Phil up and he is arrested. Lisa tells Kate that she is taking Louise and, unable to stop her legally, Kate agrees but Phil cannot forgive Kate for this and the marriage ends. Phil escapes from prison and confronts Den, who gives him money to survive 'on the run'. He is not seen for over a year afterwards.\n\nPhil returns 18 months later, needing more money. He attacks Ian, who calls the police and Phil is arrested. However, the case collapses after Grant returns to Walford pays a witness to change his testimony and Phil is released. Johnny Allen (Billy Murray) angers Phil when he threatens Peggy. Dennis gets involved in Phil's vendetta against Johnny when Phil tells him that Johnny has threatened Dennis's wife, Sharon, days after she finds out she is pregnant. Dennis attacks Johnny for this so Johnny has Dennis murdered, leaving Phil feeling responsible and vowing to make Johnny pay. Phil and Grant confront Johnny at his new home in rural Essex, but he escapes and a car chase ensues. The brothers' squabbling allows Johnny to capture them and Johnny orders Danny Moon (Jake Maskall) to kill them. However, Jake Moon (Joel Beckett) kills Danny and Johnny surrenders.\n\nFollowing the supposed death of Kathy and her husband, Gavin Sullivan (Paul Nicholas), Ben returns to England and moves in with his half-brother, Ian. Phil and Ben spend time together and they slowly bond, eventually leading to Ben moving in with Phil. Phil starts dating Stella Crawford (Sophie Thompson), but she mentally and physically abuses Ben, manipulating him into persuading Phil to propose to her. Ben reveals the abuse during the wedding ceremony, and Stella flees to an abandoned warehouse with Phil in pursuit, where she kills herself by jumping from the roof.\n\nPhil proposes to his girlfriend Suzy Branning (Maggie O'Neill) when she falsely claims that she is pregnant. Phil does not believe his friend, Shirley Carter (Linda Henry), when she tells him that Suzy is conning him; he stays with Suzy until he discovers she has schemed with his malevolent uncle, Archie (Larry Lamb). Although troubled by lapses in alcoholism due to numerous family upsets, Phil begins to settle into a relationship with Shirley, who becomes a mother figure for Ben and Louise, who is staying with Phil while Lisa is away. Phil is parted from both his children in 2010: Ben is sent to a juvenile offenders' unit for attacking Jordan Johnson (Michael-Joel David Stuart) and Louise returns to her mother, and then disappears after Lisa promises Phil can have contact at any time. Depressed, Phil starts a sexual relationship with drug addict Rainie Cross (Tanya Franks) and starts using crack cocaine, developing an addiction. Peggy locks him inside her home so he cannot have access to drugs, but, suffering withdrawal symptoms, he escapes and confronts Peggy, setting the pub on fire. Within minutes, the pub is ablaze and the roof collapses on Phil. He is rescued and Peggy leaves the next day, realising he is better off without her.\n\nShirley supports Phil through recovery. They steal a large amount of money from Phil's cousin, Roxy Mitchell (Rita Simons), to buy a house together. Roxy's mother, Glenda Mitchell (Glynis Barber) finds out, and propositions Phil so they begin an affair. When Phil discovers Glenda has also had sex with his enemy, Ian, he threatens to tell Ian's wife, Jane Beale (Laurie Brett), unless he pays him £5000. Phil's bullying of Ian almost costs him his life: when Ian finds Phil having a heart attack, he threatens to let him die but helps Phil for Ben's sake. Phil re-evaluates his life following his near-death experience and proposes to Shirley. Shirley initially accepts, but when she discovers Phil's infidelity with Glenda, she forgives him but refuses to marry.\n\nPhil reacts badly when he discovers Ben (now Joshua Pascoe) is gay, and makes it clear that he prefers Billy's (Perry Fenwick) foster son, Jay Brown (Jamie Borthwick). Jay likes spending time with Phil and changes his surname to Mitchell, becoming Phil's surrogate son. Ben secretly enacts revenge on Phil for this rejection, terrorising him with letters, implying he has evidence to incriminate Phil for past misdemeanours. Among other deeds, Ben sends Denise Fox (Diane Parish) evidence that Phil supplied the cut and shut car responsible for her husband, Kevin Wicks's (Phil Daniels), death in 2008. Denise's attempts to get Phil imprisoned fail; however, DCI Jill Marsden (Sophie Stanton), who has had a vendetta against Phil for many years, investigates the allegations and Ben tells her that Phil forced Stella to jump from the roof in 2007. Phil is held on remand in prison on suspicion of Stella's murder and Ben delights in the distress he causes his father. Ian, however, is horrified by Ben's behaviour, and tells the police that Ben is lying; however, Ben thinks Heather Trott (Cheryl Fergison), Shirley's best friend, is responsible. Fearful and angry, Ben retaliates by murdering Heather just as Phil returns to confront him. Blaming himself for Ben's actions, Phil makes the murder look like a burglary, spurns a grieving Shirley, allows his neighbours and family to become murder suspects, and bullies Ian into keeping quiet after Ben confesses to him.\n\nDuring a charity abseil on top of The Queen Victoria, Shirley proposes to Phil and he accepts. At their engagement party, Sharon Watts returns, begging for help, as she has left her fiancé John Hewland (Jesse Birdsall) at the altar and he has her son, Dennis Rickman Jnr (Harry Hickles). Phil helps her to rescue Dennis and they return with Phil to Walford. When Phil gets home, he finds that Shirley knows the truth about Heather's death. After a furious confrontation, he tries to convince her not to tell the police but Ben confesses to the police and is charged with Heather's murder. Jay is charged with perverting the course of justice and Phil orders him to change his statement so Ben will not go to prison, but Jay refuses and Phil disowns him but does manage to convince his cousin, Roxy, to lie in her statement. His solicitor, Ritchie Scott (Sian Webber), tells him that Ben could face a minimum of 10 years in prison. Shirley ends her relationship with Phil as she is unable to cope with his betrayal. Phil visits Ben in prison with Ian in the hope of persuading Ben to retract his confession but Ben refuses, insisting that he is doing the right thing as he needs to be punished. Ben refuses to have any contact with his family until his release.\n\nAfter Ben's departure, Phil bonds with Dennis. When Billy's great-granddaughter, Lexi Pearce, is taken into care, Lexi's mother Lola Pearce (Danielle Harold) tells Phil that Ben is Lexi's father and Phil is her grandfather. Lola agrees for Phil to have residence of Lexi and he suggests to Sharon that they pretend to be in a relationship to increase the chances of success, even though she is in a relationship with Jack Branning (Scott Maslen). They tell social workers that they are engaged but Shirley threatens to tell the truth, so Phil tells them the engagement is over. Phil is appointed Lexi's foster carer and ordered to arrange for Lola to visit Lexi three times a week but he immediately takes over, angering Lola by calling Lexi his baby, refusing to take presents that Lola buys for her and having her christened with the name Mitchell instead of Pearce. Phil and Jack become rivals when Phil tells Jack that he will be with Sharon by the end of the year, and Phil even proposes to Sharon, though she accepts Jack's proposal of marriage instead. When Phil offers Sharon an increase of her salary, and a 19% stake in club, Jack is not pleased and punches Phil, who falls into the vehicle pit in the garage. Jack thinks he has killed Phil, but Phil later arrives at the pub and announces Jack's guilt. Jack is arrested but Phil does not press charges after Sharon convinces him for her and Lexi's sake. At the court hearing to determine Lexi's future, Phil exposes Lola's lateness and temper during her scheduled meetings with Lexi, sabotaging her chances of winning Lexi back. He later tells Billy that Lola will never get Lexi back, which Lola overhears. She snatches Lexi from his house. Lola evades Phil, Billy and Sharon, until eventually they find her. Phil tells Social Services it is his fault for being too relaxed with Lola, but then allows Lola to look after Lexi while he goes out. When Lexi is unwell, Phil praises Lola's actions, and decides to tell Social Services that Lola may be ready to have Lexi back.\n\nPhil and Sharon reunite after her relationship with Jack ends. However, it ends when Sharon's painkiller addiction puts Lexi in danger. Lola regains full custody of Lexi, leaving Phil feeling lonely. When Shirley's benefits are cut and she is forced to move out of the B&B, Phil secretly pays her rent. Shirley finds out and believes he is doing it so she will stay quiet about his involvement in Heather's death. Shirley demands money from Phil, which he does not have, forcing him to accept a deal from newcomer Carl White (Daniel Coonan). Carl wants to depose Phil as the top man in Albert Square, so as they drive off to a deal Carl says he has arranged, Carl deliberately crashes the car after releasing Phil's seatbelt, causing Phil to be thrown through the windscreen. He is airlifted to hospital and requires an operation. While he is recovering, he puts his cousin Ronnie Mitchell (Samantha Womack) in charge of his businesses. Carl tries to intimidate her and use the garage for illegal purposes. Shirley confronts Carl about his actions, and she mysteriously disappears after this, though her friends believe she has gone to Greece as she had planned. Once recovered, Phil learns that Carl is framing Max Branning (Jake Wood) for causing the car crash, and is using Ian as a false witness. Phil kidnaps Ian on the day of Max's trial so he cannot testify, and then kidnaps Carl once Max is acquitted. Phil prepares to kill Carl, but Carl implies that he caused harm to Shirley. He takes Phil to a block of run-down flats where Shirley is staying with her sister Tina Carter (Luisa Bradshaw-White). It is revealed that Carl threatened Shirley to stay away from Walford or he would harm Phil's family. Carl leaves, and Phil pleads with Shirley to return to Walford. They return together, then Phil confronts Carl. Carl declares that he has contacts inside prison who can harm Ben if Phil does anything to him.\n\nPhil decides to sell The Queen Victoria in revenge for manager Alfie Moon's (Shane Richie) bad treatment of Roxy. He sells it to Mick Carter (Danny Dyer), not realising that Mick is Shirley's younger brother. Lola reveals that she is in a relationship with Ian's son Peter Beale (Ben Hardy), and tells Phil that he cannot see Lexi if he objects. Phil threatens Ian, forcing him to object to the relationship instead. Phil repairs his fractured relationship with Sharon and they have sex. Sharon resumes her relationship with Phil and moves in with him. Together they buy 10 Turpin Road and convert it into a new bar, which Sharon names 'The Albert'. When Ian's daughter Lucy dies, Phil begins supporting his former enemy and helps him get back on his feet. Witnessing Ian's grief prompts Phil to try to get back in touch with Ben, but he is stunned when Ritchie tells him that Ben has already been released from prison. Phil starts to track down by Ben, but is convinced by Jay and Sharon that Ben will return when he is ready. Phil is stunned when he realises that Mick is in fact Shirley's son, who she had at fourteen, subsequently raised by Shirley's parents as their son, without Mick ever discovering the truth. Phil then agrees to be her confidant for the secret in exchange for money, which Shirley steals from her son Dean Wicks' (Matt Di Angelo) salon, although Dean caught her doing this.\n\nPhil clashes with Sharon when she continually puts her work at The Albert before their relationship, only beginning to become more involved with the bar when she is unimpressed at his lack of interest in her work. Closing up one night after an event, two men break in and vandalize the bar, and when Sharon attempts to defend herself alone, she is severely beaten and left for dead. She is later hospitalised with a ruptured spleen, leaving Phil distraught, but he later admits to Shirley that he arranged for the men to scare Sharon at the bar, but believed the bodyguards that he hired for her would have protected her, and did not realise that she would be hurt. When Shirley confesses she still loves Phil, he spurns her advances and instead proposes marriage to Sharon after she regains consciousness. Unaware of Phil's role in her attack, Sharon accepts, but she later overhears the truth and begins plotting against him with Marcus Christie's (Stephen Churchett) help. However, she later changes her mind and asks Marcus to return all Phil's money to his accounts, unaware that Phil has seen them. After meeting with his accountant, Phil is angry and tells Shirley what he has discovered only for their conversation to turn to passion. However, Phil later decides that since Sharon is returning the money, it should not matter to him as he still wants to go through with the wedding. They later marry, but are oblivious to Shirley's bitterness, as she attempted to persuade him to be with her, rather than Sharon, only hours before the wedding. After the reception, Shirley enters their house and confronts them, leaving Sharon devastated when she realises Phil has been cheating behind her back even after he asked her to marry him. However, she decides that she still loves Phil and wants to be with him. After Phil insults Shirley and makes hurtful remarks about the fling they had together, an enraged Shirley attempts to go for him, but Sharon stops her, and after a brief struggle, Phil is accidentally shot. He is then rushed to hospital, Shirley fleeing with the help of her aunt, Babe Smith (Annette Badland). When Ronnie discovers her gun was used after Shirley stole it, Ronnie asks Jay and Ben to dispose of it.\n\nWhen Phil finds out that Ronnie has stolen money from him to bribe Nick Cotton (John Altman) to leave before her wedding, they argue. After Nick takes the money but refuses to leave, Ronnie asks Phil to get rid of Nick. Nick overhears this, and cuts the brakes of the wedding car. Later, while Phil confronts Nick in his house, Ronnie goes into labour and on the way to the hospital, the wedding car crashes. Whilst still at the hospital, Phil is arrested for attempted murder and realising that Nick has framed him, he asks Sharon to help him prove his innocence. Max tells Phil that he has taken over The Arches, Phil promises revenge and blames Sharon for the loss of the business. He is released on bail and vanishes, to Sharon's concern; he returns a week later, with Peggy, to get a passport. He comes close to telling Ian something, but is interrupted by Ben, who is shocked to see he is back. When Sharon confronts him, she tells him that she will leave him if he indulges in anymore dodgy activity. Phil vanishes again, and is next seen meeting with a long-thought dead Kathy in central London. She wants to return to Walford, but Phil tells her to stay away, for Ian and Ben's sakes.\n\nBen is arrested on suspicion of killing Lucy. Phil suspects he did and practically disowns him, handing in critical evidence to the police. However, Abi Branning (Lorna Fitzgerald) tells Phil that she thinks her father, Max, killed Lucy, so Phil punches Max and hopes Ben will be released. Phil finds out that his wife Sharon has been helping friend Jane cover up the real killer Bobby Beale (Eliot Carrington), Lucy's half-brother, Phil tells Jane and Sharon that he will bribe the foreman of the jury to make sure Max is not guilty. The jury find Max guilty and it emerges that Phil paid the foreman for this verdict. Sharon discovers this and kicks him out of their home. He then discovers that Ben is in a sexual relationship with Paul Coker (Jonny Labey) and is kidnapped by Kathy's husband Gavin. Weeks later, the police find Phil's blood in Gavin's sister's home. A week later, Phil returns home, battered and bruised. He collapses and is taken to hospital, where they discover he has several broken bones from two days before. He then asks Ben for alcohol, revealing he has been drinking during his kidnapping.\n\nIt is revealed that Vincent Hubbard (Richard Blackwood) is trying to get revenge on the Mitchells, especially Phil, because he believes Phil's father, Eric, murdered his own father, Henry, many years earlier. Their feud leads to Phil abducting Vincent's daughter Pearl Fox-Hubbard, with the two threatening to shoot each other, and Vincent trying to strangle Phil to death, though Vincent decides to end the feud when innocent Fatboy (Ricky Norwood) is accidentally killed. Phil's drinking worsens and he drives while intoxicated, with Ian and Dennis in the car. Distracted, Phil crashes the car, and Dennis is badly injured. In exchange for Sharon not telling the police about Bobby killing Lucy, Phil agrees with Ian that Ian will take the blame for causing the crash. While Dennis is being attended to, a doctor tells Phil that his scans showed he has cirrhosis, a disease garnered from his alcoholism. The doctor warns Phil that without treatment, he could die, but Phil remains in denial about this. He later researches cirrhosis online at home and when he finds out that Dennis is recovering, decides to give up drinking and rushes to the hospital to tell Sharon that he will always stand by her.\n\nEventually, Phil feels guilty about the crash and drinks alcohol again. He confesses the truth to Shirley, who encourages him to tell Sharon. He does so, and Sharon punches him and insists she will divorce him. Phil begs her to stay, admitting he is dying from cirrhosis. Sharon does not believe him, but tells him to die quickly. No longer wanted by his family, Phil leaves and sleeps in a car. Wanting Louise's address, he discovers that Peggy is back in London, so visits her. He gets the name of Louise's school before Peggy tells him that her cancer has returned and she is dying. Phil finds Louise (now Tilly Keeper) at her school and he gives her money to support her future. He then collapses. Later, Louise goes to Walford to tell the family that Phil is in hospital with a damaged liver. Sharon, Kathy and Shirley go to the hospital to find out that Phil discharged himself. They find Phil drunk at the pub, where he insults his family and hits Kathy. Days later, he coughs up blood and is taken to hospital. The doctor tells his family that he needs an urgent liver transplant and that if Phil continues to drink, he will be dead within 12 months. Phil and Ronnie learn that Phil must remain sober for at least six months before he can undergo the liver transplant. Ronnie vows to help Phil regain his sobriety and allows him to move in with her and Honey once he is discharged from hospital, but the drinking continues. Phil finally gives up after Sharon colludes with Ritchie to take the family businesses from Phil. After a bumping into a 'pregnant' Abi, she lies to Ben that she lost the baby she never had. A furious Ben tries to suffocate Phil but is stopped by Sharon. Phil orders Sharon and Ben out, before storming off. He then drunkenly trashes the Arches before commandeering a digger and demolishes the car lot. Phil is stunned when a badly injured Louise is found in the wreckage, and with her pleas he decides to finally give up the booze.\nPhil is later reunited with his dying mum Peggy. Grant also makes a brief reappearance, warning Phil to expect a war over money owed to Grant. The brothers try to dissuade Peggy from committing suicide but are unaware of pills secretly hidden in her makeup bag. Phil is devastated by her death, unable to make a eulogy for her funeral, especially when he reads the loving letter she left him. He finds out that Peggy betrayed his father to the police to protect Phil and visits her grave. Some time after, Phil tries to give Ian advice after Bobby violently assaults Jane, putting her in hospital.\n\nPhil is told by Ian that Ben has died after a homophobic attack following a night out, however this turns out to be Paul, Ben's boyfriend. Ben struggles to grieve for Paul's death and asks Phil for a gun to take revenge, but he refuses and Ben disappears. When Grant returns to Walford again, he accuses Phil of killing Peggy and still orders him to return all of the money Phil owes to him. After going through Sharon's bag, Phil learns that Grant has a son, Mark Fowler (Ned Porteous), with Sharon's best friend Michelle Fowler (Susan Tully/Jenna Russell) following a one-night stand 21 years previously. After agreeing to drop the truth, Phil denies speaking to Mark. Unbeknownst to Phil, Denise discovers she is five months pregnant by him as a result of a one-night stand they had. Ben and Jay are kidnapped by Paul's killers and he attempts to go after them, however when he collapses Grant offers to help him get Ben and Jay back. In gratitude for Grant rescuing Ben, Phil tells Grant that Mark is his son. Grant persuades Phil to attend Paul's funeral for Ben's sake, which he does. Phil lends Grant money to support him financially and Grant tells him to fight his liver condition. Later, Ben tells Phil that he will donate part of his liver. Phil advises against it but Ben is adamant, however, Ben's psychiatric test results mean that it is unlikely he will be able to. Phil is hospitalised again with an infection and Sharon discovers that Phil has changed his will to leave everything to Louise so she forces him to have the will amended to include her. When Jay returns, Sharon allows him back into the Mitchell household, and when Phil is discharged and returns home, he eventually allows Jay to live there. When Phil has been sober for six months, he refuses to have the transplant, devastating his family, though Sharon supports his decision. However, after one of Dennis's friends at school is stabbed and dies, Dennis is visibly upset, and therefore Phil decides to go on the transplant list after realising he does not want to put his family through the upset of his death. Phil decides he wants to spend Christmas alone and Sharon reluctantly agrees. Phil is taken to hospital when a liver is found and changes his mind about being alone at Christmas, and he does not change his mind after tests show that the liver is not suitable. Jay has a visit from his police public protection officer, who says Jay will have to move out as Louise is underage. Phil refuses to make Jay leave, despite being told that Louise could be taken into care. On Christmas Day 2016, a matching liver is found and Phil at last has the operation.\n\nMax returns to Walford and Sharon decides not to tell Phil, but when Max discovers that Phil bribed the foreman in his trial, Max visits Phil in hospital, revealing that he knows the truth. Phil hands Max his pillow, insisting that he kills him, but Max shakes his hand and says that he forgives him. Phil is unable to give Ronnie away on her wedding day to Jack, so she and Roxy visit him in hospital. The next day, Sharon tells Phil that Ronnie and Roxy have died in the hotel swimming pool, which devastates Phil. Phil is discharged from hospital and Sharon eventually discovers that Phil is the father of Denise's baby after overhearing a discussion between Shirley and Denise. Sharon decides not to tell Phil the truth, but later changes her mind when she learns that Denise is planning to give her son up for adoption. When Phil expresses his wish to adopt Dennis, Sharon tells him the truth about his son. At the hospital, Phil demands to see his son, but Sharon gets him and Denise to talk calmly. Sharon agrees to help Phil fight for his son. After emotionally holding him, Phil leaves without him. Phil refuses to speak at Ronnie and Roxy's funeral, but changes his mind after Michelle (now Jenna Russell) speaks to him. Phil meets Aaron, the son of his friend Tony who was meant to have the liver the Phil received, and gives him money out of guilt for having survived when Tony died, however Aaron's mother, Antoinette, returns it and tells him not to contact them again. Phil decides that he wants to take time away from Walford to recover from his transplant and he and Sharon decide to go to Italy. Sharon returns two months later without Phil and she informs Michelle that they have bought a holiday apartment in Italy and that he regularly attends Alcoholics Anonymous.\n\nFive months later, when Louise suffers burns from being pushed into lit candles by bully Alexandra D'Costa (Sydney Craven), Ben contacts Phil. Phil turns up at the hospital, who is unimpressed with Lisa's presence and Lisa, Sharon and Louise ask Phil to give Lisa a chance. Lisa apologises to Phil for the past mistakes regarding Louise and says that they both need to be there for her, but Phil physically throws Lisa out of the hospital, ordering her to stay away from Louise. Lisa stays with Louise at the hospital and Lisa stands up to Phil, telling him she is not going and Phil allows Lisa to visit Louise. Phil warns Lisa not to mess up. The doctor gives Lisa consent to take Louise outside and Lisa tells Louise she has been discharged. Lisa plans to take Louise, going to Liverpool Street station. Phil and Sharon find Louise's room empty and the doctor reassures them of Lisa and Louise's whereabouts, although they find Louise's belongings gone. Phil is angry as the doctor explains how Louise is at a crucial stage in her recovery and the police tell Phil and Sharon what they are doing. Phil and Sharon are told Lisa switched cabs and find Lisa's flat, which is empty. Louise wakes up and Lisa lies to her that she and Phil agreed for her to be away from the square while Phil and Sharon question Lisa's capabilities. The police, Phil and Sharon discuss Lisa being traced through her cash withdrawals in Castle Point and that she has a mental health team. Louise is in agony without her medication and Lisa prevents Louise from using the phone by cutting the cord. Louise realises Lisa is not taking her medication. Louise's phone dies as she tries to phone the police and Lisa prevents Louise from leaving, but when Lisa allows her to go, Louise chooses to stay with and comfort Lisa when she is distressed. Bex gives Phil and Sharon information on a hotel where Lisa and Louise are and compared to Sharon, Phil shows a lack of regard to Lisa's mental health. Phil finds Louise but she tells him to leave. Phil gains entry to their room and Lisa hits Phil over the head with a phone. Phil shouts at a struggling Lisa as Louise deteriorates and Lisa and Louise go to hospital together. Louise asks Phil if she could have inherited Lisa's condition and Phil admits his part in causing Lisa's illness. Louise confides in Phil about her guilt of leaving Lisa when she was ill and she rubbishes Phil's belief he is a bad father.\n\nPhil tells Sharon he wants to adopt Dennis. He then receives an offer on the car lot land and confides in Kathy about the guilt he still has over the car lot fire. He tells Sharon that he would provide for Raymond and Aaron and pay off debts if he accepted. Ben signs the paperwork for the garage when Phil decides to hand it over to him and Sharon is left stunned when he decides to give Jay the car lot land as it is worth more than the garage. Kathy insists to Phil that he justifies his reasons to Ben about giving Jay the car lot land. Ben finds a solicitor's letter of Phil's that mentions Raymond and after confronting Phil, Phil tells Ben that Raymond is his half-brother. Ben is angry with Phil for making him feel second best to his and Sharon's other children. Jay attempts to confront Phil about why he is receiving the car lot and Phil admits he killed his biological father who was the homeless man who died in the car lot fire when Phil torched it 23 years previously in an insurance scam. Phil then reveals this to be a lie in a mysterious phone call. Billy confronts Phil over his actions and ends up punching him. Later, Phil is knocked unconscious when the exposed gas line explodes during the Walford in Bloom event, but he is unharmed.\n\nIan calls Phil for help after Kathy tells Ian that James Willmott-Brown has returned to Walford. Phil visits James at his house and warns him to stay away from Kathy. There, Phil discovers Ben's boyfriend Luke Browning (Adam Astill) is James's son when he finds a photo of them. Phil tells Kathy of Luke's identity and he warns Luke to stay away from Ben, which backfires as Luke tells Ben about Phil's threat. Ben is left furious at Phil and Kathy is eventually forced to tell Ben that James has raped her. \n\nPhil's former prison cellmate, Aidan Maguire (Patrick Bergin), arrives in Walford and tells Phil that he is planning a robbery and promises to give Phil half of the money if he participates. Phil accepts, and Vincent, Mick and Keanu Taylor (Danny Walters) also agree to join. When Luke beats up Ben, Phil asks Aidan to help scare Luke off. The robbery goes wrong when Mick is shot, and the police arrive. Phil and Aidan hide the stolen money in a coffin in Billy's funeral parlour. However, the money later goes missing. Phil and Aidan try to find the money, unaware that Sharon stole it but was forced to return it to its rightful owner, Aidan's former wife, Ciara Maguire (Denise McCormack). Aidan blames Mick for taking the money but Phil discovers it was Sharon. Aidan threatens Mick's livelihood and his family, and eventually Phil is convinced to help Mick. After discovering Aidan has threatened Mick and his family, Phil punches Aidan and shows him evidence that he killed Luke, forcing him to leave Walford.\n\nIn late 1989 \"EastEnders\" acquired a new executive producer, Michael Ferguson, who took over from Mike Gibbon. Ferguson had previously been a producer on ITV's \"The Bill\" which seemed to be challenging \"EastEnders\" in providing a realistic vision of modern life in London. Due to his success on \"The Bill\", Peter Cregeen, the Head of Series at the BBC, poached Ferguson to become executive producer of \"EastEnders\".\n\nFor the roles of Phil and Grant Mitchell many actors were screen-tested together. This was done to assure the chosen actors – who would work together – had a strong rapport and physical resemblance. Producer Corinne Hollingworth commented: \"There were some good actors we had to turn down because we couldn't find the 'right' brother.\" Steve McFadden, an actor who had worked extensively in television, was cast as Phil. His shape, skills in stage fighting and a variety of sports including boxing, football and karate made him an ideal choice to play one of Walford's latest \"tough-men.\" Ross Kemp got the role of Grant. Both actors worked well together and shared similar physical characteristics, such as short cropped hair and a \"round, open face\" – facial characteristics also shared by Danniella Westbrook, who was chosen to play their sister Samantha because of this.\n\nInitially, Phil was calmer than Grant but both brothers had a sense of physical danger, displaying stereotypical masculinity, thuggish behaviour and a tendency to resolve problems through violence. Phil was originally depicted as the thinker and the more streetwise of the pair, often bailing his more spontaneous brother out of trouble, although later plotlines drove the character down a darker, more destructive route. Phil can be very violent, but unlike Grant, he occasionally showed restraint when dealing with various enemies encountered – exacting revenge over time, using mind games or getting others to do his dirty work, amongst other things.\n\nPhil has occasionally shown sadistic traits. His bullying of Ian Beale is often done as a means of deriving pleasure. Equally the ceaseless degradation of Lisa showed a particularly malicious side to the character. While Phil has shown compassion to the women in his life, he frequently finds he is unable to give them the emotional security needed to sustain the relationship. Several women have left him due to this and his inability to put their needs before the needs of his family.\n\nThe Mitchell brothers quickly became two of the soap's most popular characters and storylines involving them began to dominate the programme. Their arrival heralded a new era for the soap, which aptly coincided with the beginning of a new decade – \"EastEnders\" during the 1980s having been very much dominated by the hugely popular Watts family.\n\nOne of the most notable and popular early storylines involving Phil was a love triangle between him, his brother and his brother's wife Sharon (played by Letitia Dean). Despite the fact that Sharon was married to Grant, \"EastEnders\" writer Tony Jordan revealed in \"The Mitchells – The Full Story\" that the love-triangle storyline had been planned since Phil and Grant's introduction, after the writers decided Sharon was perfect for them both. This storyline was slow burning and spread over several years, providing a plethora of dramatic tension along the way. The episode in which Phil betrayed his brother with Sharon occurred in September 1992 in one of the soap's notorious three-handers. Things finally came to a head in 1994 with some of \"EastEnders\" most popular and renowned episodes, which were dubbed \"Sharongate\" – centred around Grant's discovery of the affair and his reaction. The repercussions of Phil's betrayal contributed to many subsequent storylines involving the Mitchell brothers during the 1990s. Sharongate has also proven a popular storyline with viewers and it was voted the sixth top soap opera moment of the decade in a poll of 17,000 people for \"What's On TV\" magazine.\n\nAmong the many issues Phil has been used to cover is alcoholism and the consequences the condition has upon the sufferer's life. The relationship between alcohol abuse and domestic violence was explored between Phil and his wife Kathy (played by Gillian Taylforth) culminating in the slow deterioration of their marriage, which gripped viewers throughout 1997. Of particular note is an episode where Phil attends Alcoholics Anonymous (February 1997), an \"alien and uncomfortable arena\" where he was forced to talk about his condition, expose his vulnerability and reveal the basis of his problem – the physical abuse he'd received from his father and his fear that he will do the same. Writer Jacquetta May, who once played Rachel Kominski in the show, evaluated the episode in an article about social realism, education and the moral messages within \"EastEnders\" storylines, commenting: \"The episode blames his destructiveness on the 'male' response to self-hate: violence. It says that unless problems are worked through (the female method), they will be repeated generation after generation\". This particular episode has also been used in a study by the Stirling Media Research Institute, where men were asked questions about the violence contained within a spectrum of broadcast television material. The study reported that much group discussion centred on the Alcoholics Anonymous group scene, which was, for the most part, seen as an accurate depiction of an AA group therapy session. In addition, Phil's portrayal of a suffering alcoholic was also seen as realistic and a \"typical portrayal of bottled-up masculinity\".\n\nPhil's disposition altered during the early 2000s when a darker more menacing side to his personality began to surface. This change was perhaps a consequence of Grant's departure, who up until this point had always been depicted as the more selfish, thuggish and nastier of the two. The storyline signifying the departure of Ross Kemp played heavily on the Mitchell brothers' fragile and damaged relationship. After discovering that Grant had vengefully slept with Kathy, Phil went ballistic with a handgun causing the hijacked Vauxhall Astra they were driving to career at high speed into the River Thames, in an episode that was watched by 19.5 million viewers. Shot in London's Docklands, the scenes required stunt doubles, divers and crash test dummies and it has been hailed as \"one of the soap's most dramatic storylines ever.\"\n\nPhil's behaviour earned him a number of sworn enemies in Albert Square and by 2001 the character had become one of the soap's nastiest villains. In an interview with \"The Guardian\" McFadden commented on his alter ego's descent into villainy \"Phil's been had over by a lot of people, so now he feels like he can do it back. It's his history\". However the character finally received his comeuppance in one of \"EastEnders\" most highly anticipated storylines, dubbed \"Who Shot Phil?\". Phil was gunned down outside his home in March 2001 in a \"\"Dallas\"-style\" whodunnit mystery. Various key characters were in the frame for the deed and viewers were left guessing for weeks as to which of them was the real culprit. Several outcomes were allegedly filmed and it was reported that only a few TV executives knew the identity of the would-be assassin – even the actors were kept in the dark. A spokesman commented \"The cast are only getting their own scripts. They are not being told anyone else's storylines. Not even Phil knows who shot him. It's top secret.\" Script writers were reportedly given private security after a writer's laptop was stolen in what was believed to be an attempt to gain the identity of the assailant. The storyline captivated the public's imagination leading to thousands of bets being placed at the bookies across the UK – bookmaker William Hill said there was about 50,000 bets on who was responsible.\n\nAn estimated 22 million viewers watched \"EastEnders\" on 5 April 2001 to find out that Lisa Shaw – Phil's ex-girlfriend – was the culprit. The episode caused the third-largest power surge on record, and the Liverpool and Barcelona UEFA Cup semi-final was postponed for 10 minutes to accommodate a special 40-minute edition of the soap.\n\nIn February 2003, it was confirmed that Steve McFadden would be taking a year hiatus. McFadden said: \"I’m going to stick my mechanic’s overalls in a locker while I take a look at a few other projects. EastEnders will always be No1 in my heart and I look forward to returning to Albert Square.\" Executive producer Louise Berridge went on to say that she was \"looking forward to Steve returning in 2004\". In July 2004, it was announced that McFadden had delayed his return. In February 2005, it was confirmed that McFadden would return. His return scenes aired in September 2005.\n\nIn June 2010, it was reported that Phil would develop an addiction to crack cocaine after his troubled personal life leads to depression. The report followed the news that Lucy Benjamin was to return for a single episode, reprising her role as Lisa, the mother of Phil's daughter Louise (Brittany Papple). In the storyline, Phil gains custody of Louise after she is dropped off in Walford by an unseen person, however, Peggy eventually returns Louise to Lisa after Phil punches his mother in the face. A spokesperson for the show said \"Lisa Fowler was a major part of Phil's life – she knows him as well as anyone, so she won't be happy about him looking after his daughter. With their history, you know that this storyline is going to be an explosive episode in the Mitchells' history.\" Phil also loses his son Ben (Charlie Jones), who makes a temporary departure from the show in order for the part to be recast. Subsequently, Phil becomes addicted to crack cocaine. Producers worked closely with drug and alcohol charities, including Addaction and DrugScope. Viewers never see Phil take drugs to make sure the episodes are suitable for all audiences. Martin Barnes, chief executive of DrugScope, commented: \"If \"EastEnders\" sensitively reflect the impact that drug use has on Phil, it could help.\" The storyline also sees Phil become more violent. McFadden explained:\n\nMcFadden decided to lose weight for the storyline by going on a crash diet, saying that food would not be one of Phil's priorities.\n\nThe character continues to be featured heavily in high-profile storylines which have included various feuds, police enquiries, armed robbery, kidnapping, numerous affairs and relationship problems and an ongoing plot concentrating on the character's struggles to bond with his children. 2005 saw the highly anticipated screen return of both of the Mitchell brothers – six years since they last appeared together. 13 million viewers tuned in to see their return giving the BBC a 52.9% audience share, a massive coup for the show which had come under heavy criticism in the British media after it drew its lowest audience in more than five years (6.6 million viewers tuning in to one episode in September 2005).\n\nThe character of Phil is arguably one of the soap's most popular, particularly with female viewers, making him one of the soap's unlikeliest sex symbols. He has featured in some of the show's most memorable and highly viewed storylines and he is the second longest running male character to appear in the soap, surpassed only by Ian Beale. Phil along with Grant was voted as the second most popular \"King Of Soaps\" in a Channel 4 poll in 2002.\n\nDuring a period of heavy media criticism aimed at \"EastEnders\" throughout 2004 and 2005, the character—who was on a hiatus from the show—was reintroduced twice in what was branded by the press as a bid to \"boost flagging \"Enders\"\" and \"revive the soap's ailing ratings\". His first return in April 2005 was generally well-received, with media comments such as \"the excellent, bug-eyed Steve McFadden proves nobody does psychotic thug better than him\" and \"McFadden's blistering performance on Tuesday defies that old cliché of a soap being bigger than its stars\". Of the Mitchell brothers' highly publicised return in October 2005, a reporter from the \"Daily Mirror\" commented \"Soapville must confess that we did get goosebumps and feel properly excited when we first saw the Mitchell Brothers back on the Square...After all, you associate them with the golden days of \"Enders\"\".\n\nIn addition the character has been praised for being good value, realistic, consistent within his character and convincing.\n\nIn 2009, Phil Mitchell came second in a poll by British men's magazine \"Loaded\" for 'Top Soap Bloke'. In 2011 McFadden was nominated for 'Best Actor' at the British Soap Awards 2011 for playing Phil. as well as be nominated at the Inside Soap Awards for 'Best Actor' in 2011. On Digital Spy's 2012 end of year reader poll, McFadden was nominated for \"Best Male Soap Actor\" and came fourth with 10.7% of the vote.\n\nIn 2016, McFadden was honoured at \"The British Soap Awards\" when he was awarded \"Outstanding Achievement' for his portrayal of Phil.\n\nAlthough popular with many, the character has also garnered much criticism over the years. In November 2005 the character was blamed for turning children into playground bullies by Dr. Sally Henry, who claimed that impressionable children look to male soap characters as role models and subsequently copy their violent behaviour. Indeed, the character's violent behaviour evoked concern from viewers in October 2002. A scene in which Phil beat his godson Jamie was criticised for being too realistic by TV watchdogs. The Broadcasting Standards Commission upheld 31 complaints from viewers, saying that the scenes were too strong for a programme shown before the 9 pm watershed.\n\nA certain level of criticism was aimed at the character due to the stark personality change he underwent circa 2000. One reporter commented \"Formerly the milder-mannered sibling, Phil has gone from Abel to Cain without an intervening period of plausibility. And it doesn't suit him\". His violent tendencies have also been spoofed by the television series \"2DTV\". There were mixed reviews for the highly publicised storyline (dubbed Get Johnny Week) involving the Mitchell brothers reunion in 2006. It was criticised as \"patchy\" and \"awkwardly written...unveiling a common weakness in the EastEnders camp, that character continuity can often fall by the wayside when you are dealing with larger characters\". Additionally, the show was criticised for turning the brothers into a comical farce by incorporating uncharacteristic humour into their dialect, which was described as \"cringeworthy\".\n\nIn August 2010, scenes showing Phil and Rainie taking the drug crack cocaine prompted over 200 complaints from viewers who felt the scenes were inappropriate. The BBC responded by saying \"\"EastEnders\" in no way – and at no point – glamorises or condones the use of drugs, and furthermore we took great care to avoid any demonstration on how to prepare or take drugs. We feel that Phil's decline will highlight the destructive nature of drugs, and rather than encourage drug use, will act as a deterrent.\" A former cocaine addict, Sarah Graham, agreed with the BBC, saying \"I think it's really important that a mainstream character like Phil Mitchell is doing this storyline. [...] I'm not surprised that there have been so many complaints about seeing this on one of our favourite soaps. The episode showed the brutal reality of addiction. [...] I can see that many people will be worried about children watching these scenes. [...] With that in mind, I think they should put the Frank drugs helpline number on after the programme.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "23937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23937", "title": "Pope Martin V", "text": "Pope Martin V\n\nPope Martin V (; January/February 1369 – 20 February 1431), born Otto (or Oddone) Colonna, was Pope from 11 November 1417 to his death in 1431. His election effectively ended the Western Schism (1378–1417).\n\nHe was born at Genazzano, the son of Agapito Colonna and Caterina Conti, between January 26 and February 20, 1369. He belonged to one of the oldest and most distinguished families of Rome. His brother Giordano became Prince of Salerno and Duke of Venosa, while his sister Paola was Lady of Piombino between 1441 and 1445.\n\nOddone studied law at the University of Pavia. He became apostolic protonotary under Pope Urban VI (1378–89), and was created Cardinal-Deacon of San Giorgio al Velabro by Pope Innocent VII in 1405.\n\nIn 1409 he took part in the Council of Pisa, and was one of the supporters of Antipope Alexander V. Later he confirmed his allegiance to Alexander's successor, John XXIII, by whom his family obtained several privileges, while Oddone obtained for himself the vicariate of Todi, Orvieto, Perugia and Umbria. He was excommunicated for this in 1411 by Pope Gregory XII. Oddone was with John XXIII's entourage at the Council of Constance and followed him in his escape at Schaffhausen on 21 March 1415. Later he returned to Constance and took part in the process leading to the deposition of John XXIII.\n\nAfter deposing Antipope John XXIII in 1415, the Council of Constance was long divided by the conflicting claims of Pope Gregory XII (1406–15) and Antipope Benedict XIII (1394–1423). Martin was elected pope, at the age of 48, at the Council of Constance on St. Martin's Day, 11 November 1417. Participants in the conclave included 23 cardinals and 30 delegates of the council. He was ordained a priest on November 13, 1417, and consecrated bishop the next day.\n\nMartin left Constance at the close of the council (May 1418), but travelled slowly through Italy and lingered at Florence. His authority in Rome was represented by his brother Giordano, who had fought under Muzio Attendolo against the condottiero Braccio da Montone. The Pope at the time ruled only Rome (when not rebellious) and its environs: Braccio held Umbria, Bologna as an independent commune, while much of Romagna and the Marche was held by local \"vicars\", who were in fact petty hereditary lords. In particular, Martin confirmed Giorgio Ordelaffi in Forlì, Ludovico Alidosi in Imola, Malatesta IV Malatesta in Rimini, and Guidantonio da Montefeltro in Spoleto, who would later marry the pope's niece Caterina Colonna. \n\nIn exchange for the recognition of Joan II of Naples, Martin obtained the restitution of Benevento, several fiefs in the Kingdom of Naples for his relatives and, most important of all, an agreement that Muzio Attendolo, then hired by the Neapolitans, should leave Rome.\n\nAfter a long stay in Florence while these matters were arranged, Martin was able to enter Rome in September 1420. He at once set to work establishing order and restoring the dilapidated churches, palaces, bridges, and other public structures. For this reconstruction he engaged some famous masters of the Tuscan school and helped instigate the Roman Renaissance.\n\nFaced with competing plans for general reform offered by various nations, Martin V submitted a counter-scheme and entered into negotiations for separate concordats, for the most part vague and illusory, with the Holy Roman Empire, England, France and Spain.\n\nBy 1415 Bohemia was in turmoil and the subject of much discussion at the Council of Constance. Adherents of Jan Hus adopted the practice of Communion under both kinds. The Council sent earnest letters to the civil and ecclesiastical authorities in Bohemia, insisting they deal with the heresy. Bohemian and Moravian nobles responded that the sentence on Hus was unjust and insulting to their country, and promised to protect priests against episcopal prosecutions for heresy. Prague was placed under interdict for sheltering the excommunicate Johann of Jesenic. Beghards arrived attracted by Bohemia's reputation for religious liberty.\n\nIn 1419 King Wenceslaus, who had resisted what he considered interference in his kingdom, commanded that all ejected Catholic beneficiaries should be reinstated in their offices and revenues. Prague prepared for armed resistance. Johann of Jesenic led a procession to the town hall, where under the leadership of Ziska of Troznow, a noble of southern Bohemia, the building was stormed and people found inside were thrown out of the windows on to the spears and swords of the processionists, and hacked to pieces. In Kuttenberg, hundreds of captured Hussites were thrown by the miners into the shafts of disused silver mines. King Wenceslaus swore death to all the rebels, but died of a stroke in August, 1419. The next months were marked by deeds of violence; many citizens, especially Germans, had to flee.\n\nWenceslaus was succeeded by his brother Sigismund, German Emperor and King of Hungary, who prepared to restore order. On 1 March 1420, Pope Martin V issued a Bull inviting all Christians to unite in a crusade against the Wycliffites, Hussites, and other heretics.\n\nAccording to Burton, Pope Martin authorized a crusade against Africa in 1418 in relation to the slave trade.\n\nMartin declared two Crusades in 1420. The first was against heretics in Bohemia, as described above. The second was in response to the rising pressure from the Ottoman Empire. In 1419–1420 Martin had diplomatic contacts with the Byzantine emperor Manuel II, who was invoking a council in Constantinople as a move to reduce the pressure from the Ottoman Turks. On 12 July 1420 the Pope conceded to attach an indulgence to anyone who would contribute to a crusade against the latter, which would be led by Sigismund, King of the Romans.\n\nThe main concern of Martin's pontificate from 1423 was the resumed war against Braccio da Montone. The following year, the combined Papal-Neapolitan army, led by Giacomo Caldora and Francesco Sforza, defeated him at the Battle of L'Aquila (2 June 1424); Braccio died a few days later.\n\nIn the same year Martin obtained a reduction of the autonomy of the commune of Bologna, whose finances would be thenceforth under the authority of a papal treasurer. He also ended the war with Braccio da Montone in exchange for his recognition as vicar and reconciled with the deposed John XXIII, to whom he gave the title of Cardinal of Tusculum.\n\nCanon law prohibited interest upon a loan. To avoid this, annuities were paid, interest in effect but not in name. The dispute as to the legality of annuity contracts was brought before Martin V in 1423. He held that purchased annuities, which were redeemable at the option of the seller, were lawful. When the lawfulness of annuities was established, they were widely used in commerce; it seems that city states used them to raise compulsory loans from their citizens.\n\nA decree of the Council of Constance ordered that councils should be held every five years. Martin V summoned a council in 1423 that met first at Pavia and later at Siena (the \"Council of Siena\"). It was rather poorly attended, which gave the Pope a pretext for dissolving it, as soon as it had come to the resolution that \"internal church union by reform ought to take precedence over external union\". It was prorogued for seven years. The seventeenth council then met as the \"Council of Basel\" in February 1431 shortly before Martin's death.\n\nMartin V died in Rome of a stroke on 20 February 1431 at the age of 62. He is buried at St. John Lateran Basilica.\n\nThe excitement of the Church during the Hussite movement rendered the Jews apprehensive, and through Emperor Sigismund, they obtained from Pope Martin V various bulls (1418 and 1422) in which their former privileges were confirmed and in which he exhorted the friars to use moderate language. In the last years of his pontificate, however, he repealed several of his ordinances. A gathering, convoked by the Jews in Forlì, sent a deputation asking Pope Martin V to abolish the oppressive laws promulgated by Antipope Benedict XIII. The deputation succeeded in its mission.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, slavery had fallen out of usage in Europe. The Church denounced the enslavement of Christians. However, voyages and discoveries brought other continents, where slavery still existed, into European consciousness, raising the question of whether slavery of unbelievers and outside of Europe was permitted. According to Burton, Martin authorized a crusade against Africa in 1418 and this coupled with a later bull of Eugene IV (1441) sanctioned the Portuguese trade in African slaves. In March 1425 a bull was issued that threatened excommunication for any Christian slave dealers and ordered Jews to wear a \"badge of infamy\" to deter, in part, the buying of Christians. In June 1425 Martin anathematized those who sold Christian slaves to Muslims. Traffic in Christian slaves was not banned, purely the sale to non-Christian owners. The papal bull of excommunication issued to the Genoese merchants of Caffa related to the buying and selling of Christians, but has been considered ineffectual as prior injunctions against the Viennese, including the Laws of Gazaria, made allowances for the sale of both Christian and Muslim slaves. Ten black African slaves were presented to Martin by Prince Henry of Portugal. According to Koschorke, Martin supported colonial expansion. Davidson (1961) argues that Martin's injunction against slavery was not a condemnation of slavery itself, but rather driven through fear of \"infidel power\".\n\nNorman Housley finds it \"... hard to avoid the conclusion that the pope was agreeing to whatever was asked of him by the king. ...political weakness compelled the Renaissance Papacy to adopt an acquiescent and unchallenging position when approached for requests for privileges in favour of these ventures.\"\n\nDuring his permanence in Rome, Martin moved his residence from St. Peter to Santa Maria Maggiore and, from 1424, the Basilica of Santi Apostoli near the Palazzo Colonna. He also frequently sojourned in towns held by his family in the Latium (Tivoli, Vicovaro, Marino, Gallicano and others).\n\nWhen the second Pope to take the name Martin was elected in 1281, there was confusion over how many Popes had taken the name before. It was believed then that there were three, so the new Pope of 1281 became Martin IV. But, in reality, those believed to be Martin II and Martin III were actually named Marinus I and Marinus II, although they are sometimes still referred to as \"Martin II\" and \"Martin III\". This has advanced the numbering of all subsequent Popes Martin by two. Popes Martin IV–V were actually the second and third popes by that name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "293253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=293253", "title": "Princess Alice of Battenberg", "text": "Princess Alice of Battenberg\n\nPrincess Alice of Battenberg (Victoria Alice Elizabeth Julia Marie; 25 February 1885 – 5 December 1969) was the mother of Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, and mother-in-law of Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nA great-granddaughter of Queen Victoria, she grew up in the United Kingdom, the German Empire, and the Mediterranean. She was congenitally deaf. After marrying Prince Andrew of Greece and Denmark in 1903, she adopted the style of her husband, becoming Princess Andrew of Greece and Denmark. She lived in Greece until the exile of most of the Greek royal family in 1917. On returning to Greece a few years later, her husband was blamed in part for the country's defeat in the Greco-Turkish War (1919–1922), and the family were once again forced into exile until the restoration of the Greek monarchy in 1935.\n\nIn 1930, she was diagnosed with schizophrenia and committed to a sanatorium in Switzerland; thereafter, she lived separately from her husband. After her recovery, she devoted most of her remaining years to charity work in Greece. She stayed in Athens during the Second World War, sheltering Jewish refugees, for which she is recognised as \"Righteous Among the Nations\" by Israel's Holocaust memorial institution, Yad Vashem. After the war, she stayed in Greece and founded an Orthodox nursing order of nuns known as the Christian Sisterhood of Martha and Mary.\n\nAfter the fall of King Constantine II of Greece and the imposition of military rule in Greece in 1967, she was invited by her son and daughter-in-law to live at Buckingham Palace in London, where she died two years later. Her remains were transferred to a Russian Orthodox convent on the Mount of Olives in Jerusalem in 1988.\n\nAlice was born in the Tapestry Room at Windsor Castle in Berkshire in the presence of her great-grandmother, Queen Victoria. She was the eldest child of Prince Louis of Battenberg and his wife Princess Victoria of Hesse and by Rhine. Her mother was the eldest daughter of Louis IV, Grand Duke of Hesse and Princess Alice of the United Kingdom, the Queen's second daughter. Her father was the eldest son of Prince Alexander of Hesse and by Rhine through his morganatic marriage to Countess Julia Hauke, who was created Princess of Battenberg in 1858 by Louis III, Grand Duke of Hesse. Her three younger siblings, Louise, George, and Louis, later became Queen of Sweden, Marquess of Milford Haven, and Earl Mountbatten of Burma, respectively.\n\nShe was christened Victoria Alice Elizabeth Julia Marie in Darmstadt on 25 April 1885. She had six godparents: her three surviving grandparents Grand Duke Louis IV of Hesse, Prince Alexander of Hesse and by Rhine, and Julia, Princess of Battenberg; her aunts Grand Duchess Elizabeth Feodorovna of Russia and Princess Marie of Erbach-Schönberg; and her great-grandmother Queen Victoria.\n\nAlice spent her childhood between Darmstadt, London, Jugenheim, and Malta (where her naval officer father was occasionally stationed). Her mother noticed that she was slow in learning to talk, and became concerned by her indistinct pronunciation. Eventually, she was diagnosed with congenital deafness after her grandmother identified the problem and took her to see an ear specialist. With encouragement from her mother, Alice learned to both lip-read and speak in English and German. Educated privately, she studied French, and later, after her engagement, she learned Greek. Her early years were spent in the company of her royal relatives, and she was a bridesmaid at the marriage of the Duke of York (later King George V) and Mary of Teck in 1893. A few weeks before her sixteenth birthday she attended the funeral of Queen Victoria in St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle, and shortly afterward she was confirmed in the Anglican faith.\n\nPrincess Alice met Prince Andrew of Greece and Denmark (known as Andrea within the family), the fourth son of King George I of Greece and Olga Constantinovna of Russia, while in London for King Edward VII's coronation in 1902. They married in a civil ceremony on 6 October 1903 at Darmstadt. The following day, there were two religious marriage ceremonies; one Lutheran in the Evangelical Castle Church, and one Greek Orthodox in the Russian Chapel on the Mathildenhöhe. She adopted the style of her husband, becoming \"Princess Andrew\". The bride and groom were closely related to the ruling houses of the United Kingdom, Germany, Russia, Denmark, and Greece; their wedding was one of the great gatherings of the descendants of Queen Victoria and Christian IX of Denmark held before World War I.\n\nPrince and Princess Andrew had five children:\nAll of Prince and Princess Andrew's children later had children of their own.\n\nAfter their wedding, Prince Andrew continued his career in the military and Princess Andrew became involved in charity work. In 1908, she visited Russia for the wedding of Grand Duchess Marie of Russia and Prince William of Sweden. While there, she talked with her aunt, Grand Duchess Elizabeth Fyodorovna, who was formulating plans for the foundation of a religious order of nurses. Princess Andrew attended the laying of the foundation stone for her aunt's new church. Later in the year, the Grand Duchess began giving away all her possessions in preparation for a more spiritual life. On their return to Greece, Prince and Princess Andrew found the political situation worsening, as the Athens government had refused to support the Cretan parliament, which had called for the union of Crete (still nominally part of the Ottoman Empire) with the Greek mainland. A group of dissatisfied officers formed a Greek nationalist Military League that eventually led to Prince Andrew's resignation from the army and the rise to power of Eleftherios Venizelos.\n\nWith the advent of the Balkan Wars, Prince Andrew was reinstated in the army and Princess Andrew acted as a nurse, assisting at operations and setting up field hospitals, work for which King George V awarded her the Royal Red Cross in 1913. During World War I, her brother-in-law, King Constantine of Greece, followed a neutrality policy despite the democratically elected government of Venizelos supporting the Allies. Princess Andrew and her children were forced to shelter in the palace cellars during the French bombardment of Athens on 1 December 1916. By June 1917, the King's neutrality policy had become so untenable that she and other members of the Greek royal family were forced into exile when her brother-in-law abdicated. For the next few years, most of the Greek royal family lived in Switzerland.\n\nThe global war effectively ended much of the political power of Europe's dynasties. The naval career of her father, Prince Louis of Battenberg, had collapsed at the beginning of the war in the face of anti-German sentiment in Britain. At the request of King George V, he relinquished the Hessian title Prince of Battenberg and the style of Serene Highness on 14 July 1917 and anglicized the family name to Mountbatten. The following day, the King created him Marquess of Milford Haven in the peerage of the United Kingdom. The following year, two of her aunts, Alix, Empress of Russia, and Grand Duchess Elizabeth Fyodorovna were murdered by Bolsheviks after the Russian revolution. At the end of the war the Russian, German and Austro-Hungarian empires had fallen, and Princess Andrew's uncle, Ernest Louis, Grand Duke of Hesse, was deposed.\n\nOn King Constantine's restoration in 1920, they briefly returned to Greece, taking up residence at Mon Repos on Corfu. But after the defeat of the Hellenic Army in the Greco-Turkish War, a Revolutionary Committee under the leadership of Colonels Nikolaos Plastiras and Stylianos Gonatas seized power and forced King Constantine into exile once again. Prince Andrew, who had served as commander of the Second Army Corps during the war, was arrested. Several former ministers and generals arrested at the same time were shot following a brief trial, and British diplomats assumed that Prince Andrew was also in mortal danger. After a show trial he was sentenced to banishment, and Prince and Princess Andrew and their children fled Greece aboard a British cruiser, HMS \"Calypso\", under the protection of the British naval attaché, Commander Gerald Talbot.\n\nThe family settled in a small house loaned to them by Princess George of Greece at Saint-Cloud, on the outskirts of Paris, where Princess Andrew helped in a charity shop for Greek refugees. She became deeply religious, and in October 1928 converted to the Greek Orthodox Church. That winter, she translated her husband's defence of his actions during the Greco-Turkish War into English. Soon afterward, she began claiming that she was receiving divine messages and that she had healing powers. In 1930, after suffering a severe nervous breakdown, Princess Andrew was diagnosed with paranoid schizophrenia, first by Thomas Ross, a psychiatrist who specialised in shell-shock, and subsequently by Sir Maurice Craig, who treated the future King George VI before he had speech therapy. The diagnosis was confirmed at Dr Ernst Simmel's sanatorium at Tegel, Berlin. She was forcibly removed from her family and placed in Dr Ludwig Binswanger's sanatorium in Kreuzlingen, Switzerland. It was a famous and well-respected institution with several celebrity patients, including Vaslav Nijinsky, the ballet dancer and choreographer, who was there at the same time as Princess Andrew. Binswanger also diagnosed the princess with schizophrenia. Both he and Simmel consulted Sigmund Freud who believed that her delusions were the result of sexual frustration. He recommended \"X-raying her ovaries in order to kill off her libido.\" Princess Andrew protested her sanity and repeatedly tried to leave the asylum.\n\nDuring Princess Andrew's long convalescence, she and Prince Andrew drifted apart, her daughters all married German princes in 1930 and 1931 (she did not attend any of the weddings), and Prince Philip went to England to stay with his uncles, Lord Louis Mountbatten and George Mountbatten, 2nd Marquess of Milford Haven, and his grandmother, the Dowager Marchioness of Milford Haven.\n\nPrincess Andrew remained at Kreuzlingen for two years, but after a brief stay at a clinic in Meran was released and began an itinerant, incognito existence in Central Europe. She maintained contact with her mother, but broke off ties to the rest of her family until the end of 1936. In 1937, her daughter Cecilie, son-in-law and two of her grandchildren were killed in an air accident at Ostend; she and Prince Andrew met for the first time in six years at the funeral (Prince Philip, Lord Louis Mountbatten and Hermann Göring also attended). She resumed contact with her family, and in 1938 returned to Athens alone to work with the poor, living in a two-bedroomed flat near the Benaki Museum.\n\nDuring World War II, Princess Andrew was in the difficult situation of having sons-in-law fighting on the German side and a son in the British Royal Navy. Her cousin, , was the German ambassador in Greece until the occupation of Athens by Axis forces in April 1941. She and her sister-in-law, Princess Nicholas of Greece, lived in Athens for the duration of the war, while most of the Greek royal family remained in exile in South Africa. She moved out of her small flat and into her brother-in-law George's three-storey house in the centre of Athens. She worked for the Red Cross, helped organise soup kitchens for the starving populace and flew to Sweden to bring back medical supplies on the pretext of visiting her sister, Louise, who was married to the Crown Prince. She organised two shelters for orphaned and stray children, and a nursing circuit for poor neighbourhoods.\n\nThe occupying forces apparently presumed Princess Andrew was pro-German, as one of her sons-in-law, Prince Christoph of Hesse, was a member of the NSDAP and the Waffen-SS, and another, Berthold, Margrave of Baden, had been invalided out of the German army in 1940 after an injury in France. Nonetheless, when visited by a German general who asked her, \"Is there anything I can do for you?\", she replied, \"You can take your troops out of my country.\"\n\nAfter the fall of Italian dictator Benito Mussolini in September 1943, the German Army occupied Athens, where a minority of Greek Jews had sought refuge. The majority (about 60,000 out of a total population of 75,000) were deported to Nazi concentration camps, where all but 2,000 died. During this period, Princess Andrew hid Jewish widow Rachel Cohen and two of her five children, who sought to evade the Gestapo and deportation to the death camps. Earlier, in 1913, Rachel's husband, Haimaki Cohen, had aided King George I of Greece. In return, King George had offered him any service that he could perform, should Cohen ever need it. Years later, during the Nazi threat, Cohen's son remembered this, and appealed to Princess Andrew, who, with Princess Nicholas, was one of only two remaining members of the royal family left in Greece. She honoured the promise and saved the Cohen family.\n\nWhen Athens was liberated in October 1944, Harold Macmillan visited Princess Andrew and described her as \"living in humble, not to say somewhat squalid conditions\". In a letter to her son, she admitted that in the last week before liberation she had had no food except bread and butter, and no meat for several months. By early December the situation in Athens was far from improved; Communist guerrillas (ELAS) were fighting the British for control of the capital. As the fighting continued, Princess Andrew was informed that her husband had died, just as hopes of a post-war reunion of the couple were rising. They had not seen each other since 1939. During the fighting, to the dismay of the British, she insisted on walking the streets distributing rations to policemen and children in contravention of the curfew order. When told that she might have been shot by a stray bullet, she replied \"they tell me that you don't hear the shot that kills you and in any case I am deaf. So, why worry about that?\"\n\nPrincess Andrew returned to Great Britain in April 1947 to attend the November wedding of her only son, Philip, to Princess Elizabeth, the elder daughter and heir presumptive of King George VI. She had some of her remaining jewels used in Princess Elizabeth's engagement ring. On the day of the wedding, her son was created Duke of Edinburgh by George VI. For the wedding ceremony, Princess Andrew sat at the head of her family on the north side of Westminster Abbey, opposite the King, Queen Elizabeth and Queen Mary. It was decided not to invite Princess Andrew's daughters to the wedding because of anti-German sentiment in Britain following World War II.\n\nIn January 1949, the princess founded a nursing order of Greek Orthodox nuns, the Christian Sisterhood of Martha and Mary, modelled after the convent that her aunt, the martyr Grand Duchess Elizabeth Fyodorovna, had founded in Russia in 1909. She trained on the Greek island of Tinos, established a home for the order in a hamlet north of Athens, and undertook two tours of the United States in 1950 and 1952 in an effort to raise funds. Her mother was baffled by her actions, \"What can you say of a nun who smokes and plays canasta?\", she said. Her daughter-in-law became queen of the Commonwealth realms in 1952, and Princess Andrew attended her coronation in June 1953, wearing a two-tone grey dress and wimple in the style of her nun's habit. However, the order eventually failed through a lack of suitable applicants.\n\nIn 1960, she visited India at the invitation of Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, who had been impressed by Princess Andrew's interest in Indian religious thought, and for her own spiritual quest. The trip was cut short when she unexpectedly took ill, and her sister-in-law, Edwina Mountbatten, Countess Mountbatten of Burma, who happened to be passing through Delhi on her own tour, had to smooth things with the Indian hosts who were taken aback at Princess Andrew's sudden change of plans. She later claimed she had had an out-of-body experience. Edwina continued her own tour, and died the following month.\n\nIncreasingly deaf and in failing health, Princess Andrew left Greece for the last time following the 21 April 1967 Colonels' Coup. Queen Elizabeth II and the Duke of Edinburgh invited Princess Andrew to reside permanently at Buckingham Palace in London. King Constantine II of Greece and Queen Anne-Marie went into exile that December after a failed royalist counter-coup.\n\nDespite suggestions of senility in later life, Princess Andrew remained lucid but physically frail. She died at Buckingham Palace on 5 December 1969. She left no possessions, having given everything away. Initially her remains were placed in the Royal Crypt in St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle, but before she died she had expressed her wish to be buried at the Convent of Saint Mary Magdalene in Gethsemane on the Mount of Olives in Jerusalem (near her aunt Grand Duchess Elizabeth Feodorovna, a Russian Orthodox saint). When her daughter, Princess George of Hanover, complained that it would be too far away for them to visit her grave, Princess Andrew jested, \"Nonsense, there's a perfectly good bus service!\" Her wish was realized on 3 August 1988 when her remains were transferred to her final resting place in a crypt below the church.\n\nOn 31 October 1994 Princess Andrew's two surviving children, the Duke of Edinburgh and Princess George of Hanover, went to Yad Vashem (the Holocaust Memorial) in Jerusalem to witness a ceremony honouring her as \"Righteous Among the Nations\" for having hidden the Cohens in her house in Athens during the Second World War. Prince Philip said of his mother's sheltering of persecuted Jews, \"I suspect that it never occurred to her that her action was in any way special. She was a person with a deep religious faith, and she would have considered it to be a perfectly natural human reaction to fellow beings in distress.\" In 2010, the Princess was posthumously named a Hero of the Holocaust by the British Government.\n\n\n\nPosthumous:\n\nThere is only one English-language biography of Princess Alice of Battenberg: the official biography written by Hugo Vickers.\n\n"}
{"id": "24203383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24203383", "title": "Robert F. Siliciano", "text": "Robert F. Siliciano\n\nRobert F. Siliciano is a professor of medicine at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and an investigator with the Howard Hughes Medical Institute. Siliciano (\"sill-ih-CAH-noh\") has a joint appointment in the Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics at Johns Hopkins. Siliciano researches the mechanisms by which the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) remains latent in the human body.\n\nSiliciano had a childhood interest in chemistry fostered by his mother Ann, a professor of physiology at Elmira College, and studied chemistry as an undergraduate at Princeton University. He then studied medicine and immunology at Johns Hopkins, earning both MD and PhD degrees. Siliciano continued his training in immunology with Ellis Reinherz at Harvard University, investigating the response of CD4-positive T-cells to antigens.\n\nSiliciano is a professor of medicine at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and a Howard Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI) investigator.\n\nThe problem of HIV latency is a focus of Siliciano's research. When HIV integrates into the genome of a host cell but remains transcriptionally silent in a state known as \"latency,\" the immune system is unable to detect and destroy the infected cell and its virus. Antiretroviral drugs are highly effective at controlling virus replication, but they also have several drawbacks. Some people experience side effects when taking these medications, and if treatment is interrupted, latent HIV can begin replicating and spreading again, often developing resistance to anti-HIV medications in the process. HIV/AIDS researchers including Siliciano have hypothesized that if all latent virus in the body could be simultaneously forced out of latency, or \"reactivated,\" antiretroviral drugs could prevent the newly formed viruses from successfully infecting new cells, thus eradicating HIV from an infected person. Several candidate drugs have been proposed, but they cause unacceptable toxicity by globally activating the patient's uninfected T cells.\n\nIn 2009, Siliciano and his laboratory published a study in the \"Journal of Clinical Investigation\" and described the \"in vitro\" use of a latency-reversing drug called 5HN (5-hydroxynaphthalene-1,4-dione). 5HN brings integrated HIV-1 out of latency but does not activate all T cells and may not be as toxic as other proposed latency-reversing compounds.\n\nInterviewed by Bloomberg.com, Siliciano commented, \"This is a way in which you could envision finding a drug that would, in conjunction with existing treatment, allow us to cure patients.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "33614253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33614253", "title": "Roberto Vilar", "text": "Roberto Vilar\n\nRoberto Vilar Fernández Mamada (born 1971) is a Galician comedian, television presenter and actor.\n\nVilar started his television career as part of the comedy duo of \"Os Tonechos\", a sketch show on the late-night variety show \"Luar\". The success of the segment led to his own late-night sketch and variety show \"Land Rober\".\n\nIn 2011 Vilar made the move from the regional television network, CRTVG, to a national one, when he was offered a contract by Mediaset España to host the game show \"Salta a la vista\" on Cuatro.\n\nIn 2014, Vilar hosted the twelfth annual Mestre Mateo Awards.\n"}
{"id": "1875405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1875405", "title": "Sandhog", "text": "Sandhog\n\nSandhog is the slang term given to urban miners, construction workers who work underground on a variety of excavation projects in New York City, and later other cities. Generally these projects involve tunneling, caisson excavation, road building, or some other type of underground construction or mining projects. The miners work with a variety of equipment from tunnel boring machines to explosives to remove material for the project they are building. The term is an American colloquialism.\n\nStarting with their first job in 1872, the Brooklyn Bridge, the \"hogs\" have built a large part of the New York City infrastructure including the subway tunnels and sewers, Water Tunnels No. 1 and No. 2 as well as the currently under construction Water Tunnel No. 3, the Lincoln, Holland, Queens-Midtown, and Brooklyn-Battery tunnels. In addition, they worked on the foundations for most of the bridges and many of the skyscrapers in the city. Many of these workers are Irish or Irish American and West Indian.\n\nSandhogging is often a tradition and is passed down through generations of families; since mining projects span decades, it is not uncommon to find multi-generations of families to work together on the same job.\n\n\nTheodore Dreiser \"St Columba and the River\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1083906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1083906", "title": "Suuret suomalaiset", "text": "Suuret suomalaiset\n\nSuuret suomalaiset (\"Great Finns\") was a 2004 television show broadcast in Finland by Yle (the Finnish Broadcasting Company), which determined the \"100 greatest Finns of all time\" according to the opinions of its viewers. The viewers were able to vote during a programme which lasted from October to December 2004. The show was a Finnish spin-off of the BBC's programme \"Great Britons\". \n\nDuring the final stage of voting, people had the chance to vote for the following three leading candidates: Risto Ryti, C.G.E. Mannerheim and Urho Kekkonen. The winner was baron Carl Gustaf Emil Mannerheim, a war hero, Marshal of Finland, and president.\n\n\nEverybody in the top ten can be regarded as \"serious\" candidates, but right after those first ten are a number of candidates that have probably been selected in a more humorous sense. Positions 11–14 are held by:\n\nAfter the results were published, lots of speculation started on the issue of whether Yle had manipulated the results in order to keep facetious candidates out of the top ten. Yle has condemned the accusations but has refused to publish the number of votes that candidates below top ten received.\n\nThe person most conspicuously not appearing on the list is the international diplomat and former President of Finland Martti Ahtisaari, who has been a perennial favourite in Finland for the Nobel Peace Prize, and was finally awarded it in 2008.\n\nIn broadcast order:\n\nOther countries have produced similar shows; see Greatest Britons spin-offs\n\n"}
{"id": "6529743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6529743", "title": "The Peasant and the Devil", "text": "The Peasant and the Devil\n\n\"The Peasant and the Devil\" () is a German fairy tale collected by the Brothers Grimm, tale number 189. It is Aarne-Thompson type 1030, man and ogre share the harvest.\n\nA peasant found a devil in his fields, sitting on a fire. He guessed he was sitting on treasure, and the devil offered it if for two years, half of the crop was his. The peasant agreed, and said that to prevent disputes, the half above the ground was the devil's, and the half below the peasant's. When the devil agreed, the peasant planted turnips. \n\nWhen harvest time came, the devil saw his leaves and the peasant's turnips, and said they must do it the other way round the next year. The peasant agreed and planted wheat. At harvest, the devil found he got nothing but stubble. Having been outwitted twice, he retreated into the earth in a fury, and the peasant took the treasure.\n\n"}
{"id": "42375049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42375049", "title": "Thirteen Martyrs of Bagumbayan", "text": "Thirteen Martyrs of Bagumbayan\n\nThe Thirteen Martyrs of Bagumbayan () were Filipino patriots in the Philippines who were executed by musketry on January 11, 1897, for cooperating with the Katipunan during the Philippine Revolution against Spain.\n\n\n\n "}
{"id": "50409967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50409967", "title": "Tom Beynon (Presbyterian minister)", "text": "Tom Beynon (Presbyterian minister)\n\nTom Beynon (1886–1961) was a Welsh Presbyterian minister, author and historian.\n\nHe was born to William and Elizabeth Beynon and grew up in Mynydd-y-Garreg, Carmarthenshire. After completing his local schooling in 1903, he began work in the Pontyberem area. There he attended the local Soar Church and began preaching. Soon after, he entered training at the Old College School, Carmarthen, then underwent further training at Newcastle Emlyn Grammar School and Bala Theological College, and was ordained a pastor of the Tabernacle of Blaengwynfi, Glamorgan in 1916. He subsequently served at and Gosen near Aberystwyth (1933–51).\n\nBeynon was an enthusiastic historian of Calvinistic Methodism in Wales. His writings were published in \"Y Drysorfa\", \"Y Goleuad\", \"Y Traethodydd\", and in local papers such as the \"Llanelly Mercury\" and the \"Welsh Gazette\". His essays were issued in collections: \"Golud a Mawl Dyffryn Tywi\" (1936), \"Gwrid ar Orwel ym Morgannwg\" (1938), \"Treftadaeth y Cenfu a Maes Gwenllian\" (1941), \"Cwmsêl a Chefn Sidan\" (1946), and \"Allt Cunedda, Llechdwnni a Mwdlwscwm\" (1955). He also edited and contributed to the \"Journal of the Calvinistic Methodist History Society\" between 1933 to 1947.\n\nHe died at his home in Penparcau, Aberystwyth, in February 1961, and was buried in Mynydd-y-Garreg.\n"}
{"id": "54458122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54458122", "title": "Vladimir Nikolayevich Orlov", "text": "Vladimir Nikolayevich Orlov\n\nPrince Vladimir Nikolayevich Orlov (Dec. 31, 1868-Aug. 29, 1927), one of the Orlov (family), was one of Tsar Nicholas II's closest advisors, and between 1906 and 1915 headed the Tsar's military cabinet.\n\nOrlov, who bore the nickname \"Fat Orlov\", may have introduced to the Tsar the motorcar in 1903, and was married to Olga, a daughter of Prince Constantine Esperovich Beloselsky-Belozersky. His son Prince Nicholas Vladimirovich Orlov (1891–1961) wed in 1917 Nadezhda Petrovna Romanov Orloff.\n\nAs the head of the military cabinet, Orlov was a keen technologist interested in military applications of the motor car. He was the patron of Adolphe Kégresse, the brilliant mechanical engineer responsible for the Kégresse track. Orlov wrote in a letter to the Tsar on 15 May 1914:\n\nIndeed, Kégresse continued as Head of the Mechanical Department of the Russian Imperial Garage at Tsarskoye Selo until the fall of the Romanovs caused him to flee to his homeland.\n\nOrlov continued his military duties until he was banished by the Tsar in 1915 to the Caucasus after losing the struggle for power to Rasputin. On August 19, 1915, after an unsuccessful attempt to discredit Rasputin and the Tsarina in a newspaper he and Vladimir Dzhunkovsky, First Deputy Interior Minister, were discharged from their posts, and four days later, the Tsar took supreme command of the Russian armies fighting on the Eastern Front of the First World War. As \"London Times\" correspondent Robert Wilton put it,\nOrlov, exiled by events subsequent to the Russian revolution of 1917, was buried in Paris, France.\n"}
{"id": "33085372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33085372", "title": "Women in Peru", "text": "Women in Peru\n\nWomen in Peru represent a minority in both numbers and legal rights. Although historically somewhat equal to men, after the Spanish conquest the culture in what is now Peru became increasingly patriarchal. The patriarchal culture is still noticeable. Women receive less pay than men, have fewer employment and political opportunities, and are at times abused without repercussion. Contraceptive availability is not enough for the demand, and over a third of pregnancies end in abortion. Maternal death rates are also some of the highest in South America.\n\nThe Peruvian Government has begun efforts to combat the high maternal mortality rate and lack of female political representation, as well as violence against women. However, the efforts have not yet borne fruit.\n\nAndean civilization is traditionally somewhat egalitarian for men and women, with women allowed to inherit property from their mothers. After the Spanish conquered the Inca Empire, the culture became more patriarchal; and the resulting society has been described as being \"machista\".\n\nDuring the republican revolutions in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, the concept of separate spheres (private vs. public) became a legally debated issue in Peru. Determining a clear distinction of the boundaries between private crimes and public crimes became significant because only public crimes could be directly prosecuted by the state. During this time, public crimes were crimes that affected the state or society, while private crimes only harmed the individual committing the act. Although all civil cases were considered to be private, some private crimes could potentially affect the public. Crimes such as theft and inflicting serious bodily injuries had previously only been prosecuted by the wishes of the plaintiff; however, during the early republic, these crimes were pursued based on the prosecutors’ and judges’ own agendas. In contrast, crimes such as slander, rape, or anything related to honor was treated the same as before. Victims of these crimes had to do substantially more work than victims of theft and serious physical injuries. In order for their case to be considered, these victims had to report their cases themselves, and had to file a formal complaint as well as provide witnesses. These plaintiff were expected to decide whether the crime itself or reporting the crime to the court would create greater harm to their honor. \n\nEven though there could be circumstances in which rape or seduction would disturb society enough to make it a public crime, to give prosecutors the power to file charges would \"disturb the peace and secrecy that should exist in the domestic sphere.\" For the same reason, physical injuries resulting from the \"punishment\" of dependence (servants, wives, children) were usually considered \"private\", crimes and the rights of the perpetrators carried more weight than the protections due to the victims, who were not, after all, citizens. Even as republican judicial officials tried to balance the demands of public and domestic order, they continue to trend, begun with the Bourbon reforms, of increasingly claiming jurisdiction in those cases pertaining to marriage, family, and sexual honor, in which the affected parties did press charges. Formerly, such cases had fallen primarily within the jurisdiction of the church.\nDuring this republican state, men who were contributed to the public sphere and were either married, between the age of 21 and 25, owned property, had an independent profession, or paid taxes were granted “citizenship status.” This enabled them to easily obtain protection of their civil liberties. Women, on the other hand, did not receive the same benefits because their roles were confided to the private sphere. The labor traditionally done by women (sewing, cooking, child-rearing, etc.) became worthless because it was no longer recognized as a public contribution, but just a part of the private (patriarchal) system in Peru. Legally, women held little protections, as it was seen as their husband or father's job to protect them. \n\nLegally, women were not protected by the new system. As a result of this, they faced many hardships. For example, domestic abuse was an ongoing problem mainly because abuse and rape were considered to be “private crimes.” The state classified these heinous acts this way because they did not want to disrupt the male patriarchal society.\nWomen were mainly defined by their sexuality purity and domestic serving abilities. Poor women, in particular, had a hard time conforming to the “republican mother” look and could not base claims on their rights or duties as mothers. Furthermore, if they were convicted of a crime, they were seen as “unnatural” and were often prevented from being released early from prison. Although women like Maria Toledo and Juana Pia fought to be released early because of good behavior and because they were the sole supporter of their children, the prosecutor argued that the women would negatively influence their children. On the contrary, men were seen as the hard working provider for the family and received more advantages than women. For example, a few months before Toledo’s petition was denied, an “honorable man’s” sentence was reduced because his wife had indicated on the appeal that he was her family’s sole provider.\n\nThis misogynist system prevailed for many decades. \n\nOn June 17, 1956, Peruvian women voted for the first time in general elections, after years of mobilization by women like María Jesús Alvarado, Adela Montesinos, Zoila Aurora Cáceres, Elvira García y García, and Magda Portal, among others. Peru was the next-to-last country in Latin America to fully enfranchise women. \n\nDuring the internal conflict in Peru beginning in the 1980s, some families became matriarchal, with approximately 78 percent of migrant families being headed by women. In shantytowns, women established soup kitchens (\"comedores\") and worked together to ensure that their families received enough food to eat.\n\nThe abuses during the conflict have caused both mental and physical problems in women. Identification papers, necessary for the execution of civil rights like voting, were also destroyed \"en masse\". , approximately 18.1 percent of Peruvian women are living without the necessary documents, as opposed to 12.2 percent of men. Even today, women from indigenous tribes may be treated disrespectfully by authority figures. The same applies to poor women. \n\nIn ninetieth century Peru, women were treated as if their lives had been divided in two different ways. One part of a woman’s life was considered private which included the work that women did and how they were treated inside the home. By declaring the work that women do as private, this then lowers their status in Peru being their work was not valued. Private work was not a way for women to gain a larger role of independence. The other part of a woman’s life was considered public, and in this case it was hard for women to fulfill a large amount of public activity. Public activity for women was a tough area being that women’s work was worthless therefore, they were not important in the community.\n\nForced sterilization against indigenous and poor women has been practiced on a large scale in Peru. The Final Report of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, published in 2003, notes that during the internal conflict in Peru, there were numerous cases of women being forcibly sterilized - also, another estimated up to 300,000 mostly rural women were sterilised under deception or with insufficient consent in the 1990s as part of a campaign intended to combat poverty.\n\nPresident Alberto Fujimori (in office from 1990–2000) has been accused of genocide and crimes against humanity as a result of a sterilization program put in place by his administration. During his presidency, Fujimori conducted a program of forced sterilizations against indigenous Quechuas and the Aymaras women, under the guise of a \"public health plan\".\n\nFemale literacy is lower than male literacy in Peru: only 94.3% of females (15 and older) are literate, compared to 97.2% of males, according to 2016 estimates.\n\nIndigenous women of Peru travel less than men. As such, they tend to be less fluent in Spanish, the national language of Peru. This may lead to difficulties when they must speak with outsiders, who often do not speak the indigenous language. Although women have a higher illiteracy rate than men, an increasing number of women are receiving higher education.\n\nWomen are a slight minority in Peru; in 2010 they represented 49.9 percent of the population. Women have a life expectancy of 74 years at birth, five years more than men.\n\nLatest estimates suggest that the population of Peru is Amerindian 45%, mestizo (mixed Amerindian and white) 37%, white 15%, black, Japanese, Chinese, and other 3%. More than 8 out of 10 people are Catholics.\n\nAlthough Peru has an ethnically diverse population, discrimination by ethnic lines is common, particularly against amerindians and blacks; gender often interacts with ethnic origin; this may mean that \"an indigenous woman may only ever work as a maid\".\n\nWomen who live in poverty are less likely to give birth in a health center or be attended by a health care worker. Peru has one of the highest maternal death rates in South America, with the government noting 185 deaths per 100,000 live births, and the United Nations estimating the number at 240 per 100,000 live births. In order to combat those high figures, the government released a strategic plan in 2008 to reduce the total to 120 maternal deaths per 100,000 live births.\n\nOf these maternal deaths, 46 percent occur during the first six weeks after birth. Amnesty International notes that economic discrimination is one of the factors, with women in affluent areas receiving better health care than those in rural areas. Gender and ethnic discrimination in health care also exist.\nAccording to the 2007 census, the causes of maternal death in Peru were as follows:\n\nThe age of consent in Peru has changed several times during recent years, and has been subject to political debates, but today it is fixed at 14, regardless of gender and/or sexual orientation, in accordance with a 2012 decision of the Constitutional Court of Peru. Teenage pregnancies are not uncommon. They are often the result of rape by a male relative.\n\nWhen giving birth, indigenous mothers may avoid going to clinics due to unfamiliarity with the techniques used. They instead prefer to use traditional practices, with which they are comfortable. The lack of health staff able to speak indigenous languages is also a problem.\n\nAlthough contraceptives are used in Peru, they are more common in urban areas. An estimated 13.3 percent of women in rural areas are in need of contraceptives that are unavailable, as opposed to 8.7 percent of urban women. Although therapeutic abortion is legal, and an estimated 35 percent of pregnancies result in abortion, regulation and implementation has been controversial, with the only clear guidelines (in Arequipa) withdrawn under pressure from anti-abortion groups. There have been instances where mothers have been forced to carry babies to term at large personal risk.\n\nThe HIV/AIDS rate in Peru was estimated in 2012 at 0.4% of adults aged 15–49.\n\nBy law, Peruvian women must be 16 years old to marry; prior to 1999, it was 14. A 2004 survey by the United Nations estimates that 13 percent of women between the ages of 15 and 19 have been married. In marriage, the husband and wife share responsibility for household affairs. In approximately 25% of marriages, finances are handled by the husbands; in some other families the mother is the head of the household.\nSome ethnic groups, such as the Asháninka, practice polygamy.\n\nDespite the fact that married Peruvian men occasionally openly take lovers, divorce is difficult to obtain. In a divorce, custody of children under the age of seven is generally awarded to the mother. Custody of those over seven is generally awarded by gender. If a parent is deemed unfit, the children can be sent to live with the other parent.\n\nThe OECD notes that women in Peru are subject to abuse, with almost half suffering from violence. The most common form of abuse is psychological. There are also reports of female genital mutilation as a rite of passage during puberty. The government has attempted to address the issues, establishing the National Programme against Family Violence and Abuse in 2001, and passing a law requiring local authorities to deal with domestic abuse and stipulating punishments for rape and spousal rape. Legal action against perpetrators of abuse is slow and ineffectual. In 1999 Peru repealed the law which stated that a rapist would be exonerated, if after the assault he and his victim married.\n\nThe principal law dealing with domestic violence is \"Ley de Protección frente a la Violencia Familiar\" (Law for Protection from Family Violence). It was first enacted in 1993, has been strengthened in 1997, and thereafter modified several times, in order to broaden its scope: by 2010, this law had already been amended five times.\nSome abusive husbands were caught in the general rise in criminal prosecution, particularly when their drunken or violent behavior threatened public as well as domestic order. In 1852, for example, shoemaker Laurencio Salazar was arrested for knocking his wife unconscious.Salazar, on previous occasions not only injured his wife but also killed animals for spite and cut his brother-in-law's hand, was dangerously violent. The republican courts defined vaguely the level of violence necessary to constitute assault in domestic cases. Between 1784 and 1824, there were only two worthy cases filed by mothers \"de parte\" under the category of physical or verbal violence but neither made it till the end. In opposition, about half of accused rapists after independence were convicted despite their efforts. Going further, the penalties for rape convictions were \"generally stricter than those for nonsexual assault: several months in jail while performing public labor and/or providing a dowry for the young woman\".\n\nThe majority of rural women work in farming, or take care of household chores. On average, they earn 46 percent less than male workers.\n\nBeginning in the 1990s, women increasingly entered service industries to replace men. They were hired because the employers could pay them less and believed that they would not form unions. During that period, labour rights were revoked for women workers.\n\nIn 2014, the UN noted that despite the fact that the economy of country was improving, women continued to be discriminated and to suffer violence.\n\nDiscrimination based on gender is forbidden by the government of Peru, and a piece of legislation was passed in 2000 that outlawed discrimination. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) noted that discrimination is practiced, in particular with regard to women's land rights, and that women in Peru generally have higher levels of poverty and unemployment. Those who have jobs have difficulty holding senior positions. The OECD has rated the degree of gender discrimination in Peru as low on the Social Institutions and Gender Index.\n\nInformal land-dispute resolution systems are common, and rural women are often discriminated. Women's access to land is not well protected; in 2002, only 25 percent of land titles were given to women, and under an \"informal ownership\" system the husband may sell property without his wife's consent. In 2014, new laws have improved the access of indigenous people to land.\n\nPolitically, women in Peru have been subordinated to men and had little power. Twenty percent of those elected in 2001 were women. Female politicians are often from richer families, as women from a lower income bracket must deal with housework. Recent laws have required a quota of representatives in Congress to be women. Despite this, the levels of women's political representation remain below the 30% quota target. As of 2014, there were 22.3% women in parliament.\n\n"}
{"id": "11285168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11285168", "title": "Zheng Yongshan", "text": "Zheng Yongshan\n\nZheng Yongshan (鄭 永善, born 1972), who also goes by the name of Mie Taniguchi (谷口 充恵), is a Chinese immigrant in Japan who was convicted of killing two children and sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nZheng moved to Japan in 2004 and married a Japanese man. She lived near Tokyo, Japan.\n\nOn February 17, 2006, Zheng was supposed to drive her child, and two of the child's classmates, to school as part of a carpool arrangement. She stabbed the two classmates in the stomach and back with a 20-centimeter, thin, fish-cutting blade. One child, a girl named Wakana Taketomo, was stabbed 19 times; the other, a boy named Jin Sano, was stabbed 13 times. Both children were five years old. Zheng then dumped the bodies in Nagahama, Shiga Prefecture, a small town southwest of Tokyo.\n\nA passer-by discovered the body of Taketomo on a rural road; Sano's body was recovered in an irrigation stream. After dumping the bodies, Zheng parked the car away from the crime scene; she still had the knife used in the killings in her possession. Taketomo was declared dead at 9:45am, shortly after she was taken to the hospital. Sano died around noon at the same hospital. Prosecutors demanded death, but Zheng was sentenced to life imprisonment after she was diagnosed with schizophrenia.\n"}
