{"id": "16424911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16424911", "title": "1717 Arlon", "text": "1717 Arlon\n\n1717 Arlon, provisional designation , is a binary Florian asteroid from the inner regions of the asteroid belt, approximately 8.5 kilometers in diameter.\n\nIt was discovered on 8 January 1954, by Belgian astronomer Sylvain Arend at the Royal Observatory of Belgium in Uccle, Belgium, and later named for the Belgian town and provincial capital, Arlon.\n\n\"Arlon\" is a member of the Flora family, a collisional family of S-type asteroids asteroids, and one of the largest populations of the main-belt. It orbits the Sun in the inner main-belt at a distance of 1.9–2.5 AU once every 3 years and 3 months (1,188 days). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.13 and an inclination of 6° with respect to the ecliptic. First identified as at Simeiz Observatory in 1915, \"Arlon\" first used observation was taken at Lowell Observatory in 1930, when it was identified as , extending the body's observation arc by 24 years prior to its official discovery observation.\n\nA large number of rotational lightcurves of \"Arlon\" were obtained from photometric observations, giving a well-defined rotation period between 5.1477 and 5.1496 hours with a small brightness variation of 0.10 magnitude or less \"(also see infobox)\".\n\nDuring one of these photometric observations in 2006, the binary nature of \"Arlon\" was revealed. The discovered asteroid moon orbits its primary once every 18.2 hours, at a distance of 16 kilometers. The moon itself measures approximately 4 kilometers in diameter.\n\nAccording to the surveys carried out by the Japanese Akari satellite and NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer with its subsequent NEOWISE mission, \"Arlon\" measures between 8.48 and 9.15 kilometers in diameter and its surface has an albedo between 0.167 and 0.315. The \"Collaborative Asteroid Lightcurve Link\" agrees with the revised WISE-results by Pravec, adopting an albedo of 0.225 and a diameter of 9.15 kilometers with an absolute magnitude of 12.43.\n\nThis minor planet was named for the Belgian town, municipality and provincial capital, Arlon. It is located on a hill above the source of the Semois river. In ancient times, Arlon was known as \"Orolaunum\" by the Romans and served as a station on the Antoninian way linking the cities Trier with Reims. The approved naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 22 September 1983 ().\n\n"}
{"id": "19630660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19630660", "title": "Afro-Eurasia", "text": "Afro-Eurasia\n\nAfro-Eurasia (or Afroeurasia, or Eurafrasia, or nicknamed the World Island) is a landmass which comprises the continents of Eurasia (Europe and Asia) and Africa. The terms are portmanteaus of the names of its constituent parts. It is the largest contiguous landmass on Earth. \n\nAfro-Eurasia encompasses , a little over half the world's land area, and has a population of approximately 6 billion people, roughly 86% of the world population.\n\nThe following terms are used for similar concepts:\n\n\nAlthough Afro-Eurasia is typically considered to comprise two or three separate continents, it is not a proper supercontinent. Instead, it is the largest present part of the supercontinent cycle.\n\nThe oldest part of Afro-Eurasia is probably the Kaapvaal Craton, which together with Madagascar and parts of India and western Australia formed part of the first supercontinent Vaalbara or Ur around 3 billion years ago. It has made up parts of every supercontinent since. At the breakup of Pangaea around 200 million years ago, the North American and Eurasian Plates together formed Laurasia while the African Plate remained in Gondwana, from which the Indian Plate split off. This impacted southern Asia around 50 million years ago and began the formation of the Himalayas. (Around the same time, it also fused with the Australian Plate.) The Arabian Plate broke off of Africa around 30 million years ago and impacted the Iranian Plate between 19 and 12 million years ago, ultimately forming the Alborz and Zagros chains of Iranian Plate. After this initial connection of Afro-Eurasia, the Betic corridor along the Gibraltar Arc closed a little less than 6 million years ago, fusing Northwest Africa and Iberia together. This led to the nearly complete desiccation of the Mediterranean Basin, the Messinian salinity crisis. Eurasia and Africa were then again separated: the Zanclean Flood around 5.33 million years ago refilled the Mediterranean Sea through the Strait of Gibraltar and the Red Sea and Gulf of Suez Rifts further divided Africa from the Arabian Plate.\n\nToday, Africa is now joined to Asia only by a narrow land bridge (which has been split by the Suez Canal at the Isthmus of Suez) and remains separated from Europe by the Straits of Gibraltar and Sicily. Paleogeologist Ronald Blakey has described the next 15 to 100 million years of tectonic development as fairly settled and predictable. In that time, Africa is expected to continue drifting northward. It will close the Strait of Gibraltar around 600,000 years from now, quickly evaporating the Mediterranean Sea. No supercontinent will form within the settled time frame, however, and the geologic record is full of unexpected shifts in tectonic activity that make further projections \"very, very speculative\". Three possibilities are known as Novopangaea, Amasia, and Pangaea Ultima. In the first two, the Pacific closes and Africa remains fused to Eurasia, but Eurasia itself splits as Africa and Europe spin towards the west; in the last, the trio spin eastward together as the Atlantic closes.\n\nNormally Afro-Eurasia is divided at the Suez Canal into Africa and Eurasia, the latter of which can be subdivided into Europe and Asia. It has also been divided into Eurasia-North Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa for cultural and historical reasons.\n\n\n\n\n\nThis is a list of the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location on Afro-Eurasia.\n\nAfro-Eurasia (including islands)\n\n\nAfro-Eurasia (mainland)\n\n\n¹ If the Azores are included as part of Afro-Eurasia, Flores is the westernmost part of the continent.\n\n² According to the International Date Line.\n\n"}
{"id": "21766196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21766196", "title": "Al-Dimashqi (geographer)", "text": "Al-Dimashqi (geographer)\n\nSheikh Shams al-Din al-Ansari al-Dimashqi or simply al-Dimashqi () (1256–1327) was a medieval Arab geographer, completing his main work in 1300. Born in Damascus—as his name \"Dimashqi\" implies—he mostly wrote of his native land, the Greater Syria (\"Bilad ash-Sham\"), upon the complete withdrawal of the Crusaders. He became a contemporary of the Mamluk sultan Baibars, the general who led the Muslims in war against the Crusaders. His work is of value in connection with the Crusader Chronicles. He died while in Safad, in 1327.\n\nAl-Dimashqi (1325) gives detailed accounts of islands in Maritime Southeast Asia, its inhabitants, flora, fauna and customs. He mentions \"the country of Champa...is inhabited by Muslims and idolaters. Islam arrived there during the time of Caliph Uthman...and Ali, many Muslims who were expelled by the Umayyads and by Al-Hajjaj, fled there, and since then a majority of the Cham have embraced Islam.\"\n\nOf their rivals the Khmer, Al-Dimashqi (1325) mentions they inhabit the island of Komor (Khmer), also called Malay Island, are many towns and cities, rich-dense forests with huge, tall trees, and white elephants; they supplemented their income from the trade routes not only by exporting ivory and aloe, but also by engaging in piracy and raiding on Muslim and Chinese shipping.\n\nAl-Dimaski's writings on Syria were published in St. Petersburg in 1866 by M.A.F Mehren, and this edition was later used for the English translation by Guy Le Strange in 1890.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2064777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2064777", "title": "Autonomous city", "text": "Autonomous city\n\nAutonomous city is a type of autonomous administrative division.\n\nThe 1994 amendment of the Argentine Constitution granted Buenos Aires city, formerly a federal district (\"Capital Federal\", ) of Argentina, the status of autonomous, and changed its formal name to Autonomous City of Buenos Aires (). \n\nAnother large city that is currently pressing for autonomy is Rosario, in Santa Fe Province. Rosario has nearly 1 million inhabitants (about 1.3 million counting its suburbs and nearby towns), and is usually disfavoured in the distribution of funds and resources, which disproportionately assigns more of its share to the much less populated provincial capital, Santa Fe. Some legislators have proposed that autonomy could be granted to Rosario by passing a law in the ordinary fashion, while others claim an amendment of the provincial constitution is needed.\n\nIn Spain there are two autonomous cities called Ceuta and Melilla. Two enclaves located on the north coast of Morocco, separated from the Iberian peninsula by the Strait of Gibraltar.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "16564174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16564174", "title": "Basic People's Congress (country subdivision)", "text": "Basic People's Congress (country subdivision)\n\nBasic People's Congress (Mu'tamar shaʿbi asāsi ) was the smallest administrative subdivision in Libya under the Great Socialist People's Libyan Arab Jamahiriya from 1977 to 2012. Geographically it corresponded approximately to the level of a township or borough.\n\nUnder Muammar Gaddafi's regime, political caucuses and committees of the Basic People's Congress operated at this level. Representatives from the Basic People's Congresses regulated operations at the higher shabiyah (district) level.\n\nIn July 2013 the shabiyat and Basic People's Congress system was replaced with a new baladiyat system of ninety-nine first-level administration subdivisions.\n\n"}
{"id": "52052945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52052945", "title": "Caroline King-Okumu", "text": "Caroline King-Okumu\n\nCaroline King-Okumu (formerly Caroline King) is a senior researcher for the International Institute for Environment and Development (IIED). Her major areas of research are dryland ecosystems, economic and environmental assessment, and climate change. She is considered an international expert on land and water management, particularly drylands agriculture. King-Okumu is based in Kenya but is involved in research and projects throughout the world.\n\nKing-Okumu has worked with the United Nations University (UNU), United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD), and International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA).\nShe has consulted with the Ecosystems and Human Development Association (EHDA) and has been a Visiting Research Associate at the School of Geography and Environment at the University of Oxford.\n\nCurrently she is a senior researcher in the Climate Change Group of the International Institute for Environment and Development (IIED) Based in London, England. IIED is an international organization engaged in policy and action research to support sustainable local development in countries in Africa, Asia, Latin America, the Middle East and the Pacific.\n\nKing-Okumu studies methods for the sustainable integrated management of water and land in dryland ecosystems, and economic and environmental assessment techniques for calculating the costs of groundwater degradation. She encourages initiatives for decision-making in the context of longer-term considerations of increasing variability and climate change. She works to develop in-country partnerships engaging government, research institutions, civic groups and the private sector, to support sustainable practices and community-based adaptation and to increase climate change resilience.\n\nKing-Okumu analyzes situations in terms of a nexus of interlinked water, energy, and food production concerns rather than focusing solely on water balance and food production.\nShe makes use of a wide variety of techniques ranging from remote sensing for the monitoring of the environment, to in-depth field observation and surveys with local people.\n\nHer research includes examinations of sustainable coastal management in Asia and the Pacific, \nwater management for Egyptian citrus producers west of the Nile Delta,\ndesertification in the Northern Sahara,\ngroundwater degradation in the Western Desert, and the impact of local policies on the management of pastoralist grazing in Isiolo County, Kenya.\nShe has also reported on the effects of conflict in Syria on agriculture in the Orontes Basin.\n\nKing-Okumu was involved in the G20 Water Policy Workshop on \"Safe Drinking Water and Sanitation for All\" (2004). The report was used to support proposals for a summit meeting of L20 world leaders to discuss safe water.\n\nKing-Okumu has worked with Boshra Salem and others on the Sustainable Management of Marginal Drylands (SUMAMAD) project for UNESCO.\nShe presented at \"The future of drylands\" (Tunis, Tunisia, 2006), an international conference organized by UNESCO and 20 other organizations as part of the United Nations' International Year of Deserts and Desertification to assess the past 50 years of drylands research and identify priorities for future development.\nShe has presented at other conferences including the \"Eleventh International Dryland Development Conference: Global climate change and its impact on food & energy security in the drylands\" (Beijing, China, 2013)\nand the \"International Conference on The Water-Food-Energy Nexus in Drylands\" (Rabat, Morocco, 2014).\n\nKing-Okumu speaks English, French, Arabic and Japanese and is learning Amharic and Swahili.\n"}
{"id": "18048912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18048912", "title": "Chelan Seamount", "text": "Chelan Seamount\n\nThe Chelan Seamount is a seamount located in the Pacific Ocean off the coast of northern Vancouver Island, British Columbia, Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "57752567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57752567", "title": "Daurian forest steppe", "text": "Daurian forest steppe\n\nThe Daurian forest steppe ecoregion (WWF ID:PA0804) is a band of grassland, shrub terrain, and mixed forests in northeast Mongolia and the region of Siberia, Russia that follows the course of the Onon River and Ulz River. The region has been described as a “sea of grass that forms the best and most intact example of an undisturbed steppe ecosystem and is also one of the last areas in the Palearctic that still supports stable herds of larger vertebrates” in a semi-mountainous area.The area also has flat wetlands that are important to migratory birds. The ecoregion is in the Palearctic ecozone, with a Cold semi-arid climate climate. It covers .\n\nThe ecoregion circles around half of the Khentii Mountains, then stretches over 1,000 kilometers east of Ulan Bator into northeasteastern Mongolia through the semi-arid region south and east of Chita, Zabaykalsky Krai, Russia. A prominent feature is the Onon River flowing east through mid-sized mountains (1,400 - 1,800 meters in height) to the Amur River.\n\nBecause of its altitude and distance from the ocean, the ecoregion has a Subarctic climate (Köppen climate classification Dwc). This indicates a continental climate characterized by short, cool summers, and very cold, long winters, with wide differences between day and night temperatures. This region is also heavily influenced by the high barometric pressures over Mongolia. Mean temperatures range from -30° C (January) to +24° C (August). Average annual precipitation is 150 mm.\nThe steppe lands of the ecoregion are characterized by sedges (family Carex) and grasses (family Poaceae, forming meadow steppe, herbs steppe and sandy saltmarsh steppe. Along the lake shores are salt-loving plants and reed beds. The forests of the area are mostly Asian black birch (\"Betula dahurica\"), Scots pine (\"Pinus sylvestris\"), and Siberian larch (\"Larix sibirica\"). Aspen groves are found in some mountain areas.\n\nHerds of Mongolian Gazelle (\"Procapra gutturosa\") roam the grasslands of the region, which is at the northern edge of their territory. The broken terrain of mountains and ravines support small mammals, including the Lesser white-toothed shrew (\"Crocidura sauveolens\"), Eurasian harvest mouse (\"Micromys minutus\"), and Maximowicz's vole (\"Microtus maximowiczii\"). Predators include the wolf, polecat, Eurasion badger, and Pallas's cat (\"Otocolobus manul\").\n\nThe federally protected areas in the region are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3213412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3213412", "title": "Donja Dubrava, Zagreb", "text": "Donja Dubrava, Zagreb\n\nDonja Dubrava (, \"Lower Dubrava\") is one of the districts of Zagreb, Croatia. It is located in the northeastern part of the city and in 2011 had 36,363 inhabitants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4394736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4394736", "title": "European Union Prize for Contemporary Architecture", "text": "European Union Prize for Contemporary Architecture\n\nThe European Union Prize for Contemporary Architecture - Mies van der Rohe Award is a Prize given biennially by the European Union and the Fundació Mies van der Rohe, Barcelona, 'to acknowledge and reward quality architectural production in Europe'.\n\nThe Prize was created in 1987 as equal partnerships between the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Fundació Mies van der Rohe. The award is open to all the works completed in Europe within the two-year period before the granting of the Prize. These works are submitted by independent experts, the national architecture associations and the advisory committee of the Prize and then evaluated by a Jury which is defined for each edition. The five finalist works are visited by the Jury who chooses a Prize Winner and an Emerging Architect Winner.\n\nAs of 2016, a new category, the Young Talent Architecture Award (YTAA), highlights the final degree projects of recently graduated architects, landscape architects and urban designers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4170535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4170535", "title": "France–United Kingdom relations", "text": "France–United Kingdom relations\n\nFrance–United Kingdom relations are the relations between the governments of the French Republic and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (UK). The historical ties between the two countries are long and complex, including conquest, wars, and alliances at various points in history. The Roman era saw both areas, except Scotland and Ireland, conquered by Rome, whose fortifications exist in both countries to this day, and whose writing system introduced a common alphabet to both areas; however, the language barrier remained. The Norman conquest of England in 1066 decisively shaped English history, as well as the English language. In the medieval period, the countries were often bitter enemies, with both nations' monarchs claiming control over France. The Hundred Years' War stretched from 1337 to 1453 resulting in French victory. Britain and France fought a series of five major wars, culminating in the Coalition victory over Napoleon at Waterloo in 1815. After that there were some tensions, especially after 1880 over such issues as the Suez Canal and rivalry for African colonies. Despite some brief war scares, peace always prevailed. Friendly ties between the two began with the 1904 Entente Cordiale, particularly via the alliances in World War I and World War II, wherein both countries fought against Germany, and in the latter conflict British armies helped to liberate occupied France from the Nazis. Both nations opposed the Soviet Union during the Cold War and were founding members of NATO, the western military alliance led by the United States. Charles de Gaulle distrusted the British for being too close to the Americans, and for years he blocked British entry into the European common market, now called the European Union. De Gaulle also pulled France out of active role in NATO because that alliance was too heavily dominated by Washington. After his death, Britain did enter the European Union, and France returned to NATO.\n\nIn recent years the two countries have experienced a quite close relationship, especially on defence and foreign policy issues; the two countries tend, however, to disagree on a range of other matters, most notably the European Union. France and Britain are often still referred to as \"historic rivals\" or with emphasis on the perceived ever-lasting competition that still opposes the two countries.\n\nFrench author José-Alain Fralon characterised the relationship between the countries by describing the British as \"our most dear enemies\". Unlike France, the United Kingdom plans to leave the European Union in 2019, after the United Kingdom voted so in a referendum held on 23 June 2016. It is estimated that about 350,000 French people live in the UK, with approximately 400,000 Britons living in France.\n\nWhen Julius Caesar invaded Gaul, he encountered allies of the Gauls and Belgae from southeastern Britain offering assistance, some of whom even acknowledged the king of the Belgae as their sovereign.\n\nAlthough all peoples concerned were Celts (and the Germanic Angles and Franks had not yet invaded either country that would later bear their names), this could arguably be seen as the first major example of Anglo-French cooperation in recorded history. As a consequence, Caesar felt compelled to invade in an attempt to subdue Britain. Rome was reasonably successful at conquering Gaul and Britain and Belgica all; and all three areas became provinces of the Roman Empire.\n\nFor the next five hundred years, there was much interaction between the two regions, as both Britain and France were under Roman rule. After the fall of the Western Roman Empire, this was followed by another five hundred years with very little interaction between the two, as both were invaded by different Germanic tribes. Anglo-Saxonism rose from a mixture of Brythonism and Scandinavian immigration in Britain to conquer the Picts and Gaels. France saw intermixture with and partial conquest by Germanic tribes such as the Salian Franks to create the Frankish kingdoms. Christianity as a religion spread through all areas involved during this period, replacing the Germanic, Celtic and pre-Celtic forms of worship. The deeds of chieftains in this period would produce the legendaria around King Arthur and Camelot - now believed to be a legend based on the deeds of many early medieval British chieftains - and the more historically verifiable Charlemagne, the Frankish chieftain who founded the Holy Roman Empire throughout much of Western Europe. At the turn of the second millennium, the British Isles were primarily involved with the Scandinavian world, while France's main foreign relationship was with the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nPrior to the Norman Conquest of 1066, there were no armed conflicts between the Kingdom of England and the Kingdom of France. France and England were subject to repeated Viking invasions, and their foreign preoccupations were primarily directed toward Scandinavia.\n\nSuch cross-Channel relations as England had were directed toward Normandy, a quasi-independent fief owing homage to the French king; Emma, daughter of Normandy's Duke Richard, became queen to two English kings in succession; two of her sons, Harthacnut and Edward the Confessor later became kings of England. Edward spent much of his early life (1013–1041) in Normandy and, as king, favored certain Normans with high office, such as Robert of Jumièges, who became Archbishop of Canterbury.\n\nThis gradual Normanization of the realm set the stage for the Norman Conquest, in which Emma's brother's grandson, William, Duke of Normandy, gained the kingdom in the first successful cross-Channel invasion since Roman times. Together with its new ruler, England acquired the foreign policy of the Norman dukes, which was based on protecting and expanding Norman interests at the expense of the French Kings. Although William's rule over Normandy had initially had the backing of King Henry I of France, William's success had soon created hostility, and in 1054 and 1057 King Henry had twice attacked Normandy.\n\nHowever, in the mid-eleventh century there was a dispute over the English throne, and the French-speaking Normans, who were of Viking stock, invaded England under their duke William the Conqueror and took over following the Battle of Hastings in 1066, and crowned themselves Kings of England. The Normans took control of the land and the political system. Feudal culture took root in England, and for the next 150 years England was generally considered of secondary importance to the dynasty's Continental territories, notably in Normandy and other western French provinces. The language of the aristocracy was French for several hundred years after the Norman Conquest. Many French words were adopted into the English language as a result. About one third of the English language is derived from or through various forms of French. The first Norman kings were also the Dukes of Normandy, so relations were somewhat complicated between the countries. Though they were dukes ostensibly under the king of France, their higher level of organisation in Normandy gave them more de facto power. In addition, they were kings of England in their own right; England was not officially a province of France, nor a province of Normandy.\n\nThis war was fought between the years 1076 to 1077.\n\nIn 1087, following the monastic retirement of its last count, William and Philip partitioned between themselves the Vexin, a small but strategically important county on the middle Seine that controlled the traffic between Paris and Rouen, the French and Norman capitals. With this buffer state eliminated, Normandy and the king's royal demesne (the Île-de-France) now directly bordered on each other, and the region would be the flashpoint for several future wars. In 1087, William responded to border raids conducted by Philip's soldiers by attacking the town of Mantes, during the sack of which he received an accidental injury that turned fatal.\n\nWith William's death, his realms were parted between his two sons (England to William Rufus, Normandy to Robert Curthose) and the Norman-French border war concluded. Factional strains between the Norman barons, faced with a double loyalty to William's two sons, created a brief civil war in which an attempt was made to force Rufus off the English throne. With the failure of the rebellion, England and Normandy were clearly divided for the first time since 1066.\n\nRobert Curthose left on crusade in 1096, and for the duration of his absence Rufus took over the administration of Normandy. Soon afterwards (1097) he attacked the Vexin and the next year the County of Maine. Rufus succeeded in defeating Maine, but the war in the Vexin ended inconclusively with a truce in 1098.\n\nIn August 1100, William Rufus was killed by an arrow shot while hunting. His younger brother, Henry Beauclerc immediately took the throne. It had been expected to go to Robert Curthose, Duke of Normandy, but Robert was away on a crusade and did not return until a month after Rufus' death, by which time Henry was firmly in control of England, and his accession had been recognized by France's King Philip. Robert was, however, able to reassert his control over Normandy, though only after giving up the County of Maine.\n\nEngland and Normandy were now in the hands of the two brothers, Henry and Robert. In July 1101, Robert launched an attack on England from Normandy. He landed successfully at Portsmouth, and advanced inland to Alton in Hampshire. There he and Henry came to an agreement to accept the \"status quo\" of the territorial division. Henry was freed from his homage to Robert, and agreed to pay the Duke an annual sum (which, however, he only paid until 1103).\n\nFollowing increasing tensions between the brothers, and evidence of the weakness of Robert's rule, Henry I invaded Normandy in the spring of 1105, landing at Barfleur. The ensuing Anglo-Norman war was longer and more destructive, involving sieges of Bayeux and Caen; but Henry had to return to England in the late summer, and it was not until the following summer that he was able to resume the conquest of Normandy. In the interim, Duke Robert took the opportunity to appeal to his liege lord, King Philip, but could obtain no aid from him. The fate of Robert and the duchy was sealed at the Battle of Tinchebray on 28 or 29 September 1106: Robert was captured and imprisoned for the rest of his life. Henry was now, like his father, both King of England and Duke of Normandy, and the stage was set for a new round of conflict between England and France.\n\nIn 1108, Philip I, who had been king of France since before the Norman Conquest, died and was succeeded by his son Louis VI, who had already been conducting the administration of the realm in his father's name for several years.\n\nLouis had initially been hostile to Robert Curthose, and friendly to Henry I; but with Henry's acquisition of Normandy, the old Norman-French rivalries re-emerged. From 1109 to 1113, clashes erupted in the Vexin; and in 1117 Louis made a pact with Baldwin VII of Flanders, Fulk V of Anjou, and various rebellious Norman barons to overthrow Henry's rule in Normandy and replace him with William Clito, Curthose's son. By luck and diplomacy, however, Henry eliminated the Flemings and Angevins from the war, and on 20 August 1119 at the Battle of Bremule he defeated the French. Louis was obliged to accept Henry's rule in Normandy, and accepted his son William Adelin's homage for the fief in 1120.\n\nDuring the reign of the closely related Plantagenet dynasty, which was based in its Angevin Empire, half of France was under Angevin control as well as all of England. However, almost all of the Angevin empire was lost to Philip II of France under Richard the Lionheart, John and Henry III of England. This finally gave the English a separate identity as an Anglo-Saxon people under a Francophone, but not French, crown.\n\nWhile the English and French had been frequently acrimonious, they had always had a common culture and little fundamental difference in identity. Nationalism had been minimal in days when most wars took place between rival feudal lords on a sub-national scale. The last attempt to unite the two cultures under such lines was probably a failed French-supported rebellion to depose Edward II. It was also during the Middle Ages that a Franco-Scottish alliance, known as the Auld Alliance was signed by King John of Scotland and Philip IV of France.\n\nThe English monarchy increasingly integrated with its subjects and turned to the English language wholeheartedly during the Hundred Years' War between 1337 and 1453. Though the war was in principle a mere dispute over territory, it drastically changed societies on both sides of the Channel. The English, although already politically united, for the first time found pride in their language and identity, while the French united politically.\n\nSeveral of the most famous Anglo-French battles took place during the Hundred Years' War: Crécy, Poitiers, Agincourt, Orléans, Patay, Formigny and Castillon. The English under King Henry VIII invaded and defeated France in 1544-46. Major sources of French pride stemmed from their leadership during the war. Bertrand du Guesclin was a brilliant tactician who forced the English out of the lands they had procured at the Treaty of Brétigny, a compromising treaty that most Frenchmen saw as a humiliation. Joan of Arc was another unifying figure who to this day represents a combination of religious fervour and French patriotism to all France. After her inspirational victory at Orléans and what many saw as Joan's martyrdom at the hands of Burgundians and Englishmen, Jean de Dunois eventually forced the English out of all of France except Calais, which was only lost in 1558. Apart from setting national identities, the Hundred Years' War was the root of the traditional rivalry and at times hatred between the two countries. During this era, the English lost their last territories in France, except Calais, which would remain in English hands for another 105 years, though the English monarchs continued to style themselves as Kings of France until 1800.\n\nFrance and Scotland agreed to defend each other in the event of an attack on either from England in several treaties, the most notable of which were in 1327 and 1490. There had always been intermarriage between the Scottish and French royal households, but this solidified the bond between the royals even further.\nScottish historian J. B. Black took a critical view, arguing regarding the alliance: \n\nThe English and French were engaged in numerous wars in the following centuries. They took opposite sides in all of the Italian Wars between 1494 and 1559.\n\nAn even deeper division set in during the English Reformation, when most of England converted to Protestantism and France remained Roman Catholic. This enabled each side to see the other as not only a foreign evil but also a heretical one. In both countries there was intense civil religious conflict. Because of the oppression by Roman Catholic King Louis XIII of France, many Protestant Huguenots fled to England. Similarly, many Catholics fled from England to France. Scotland had a very close relationship with France in the 16th century, with intermarriage at the highest level..\n\nHenry VIII of England had initially sought an alliance with France, and the Field of the Cloth of Gold saw a face to face meeting between him and King Francis I of France. Mary, Queen of Scots (1542 – 1587) Was born to King James V and his French second wife, Mary of Guise and became Queen when her father was killed in the wars with England. Her mother became Regent, brought in French advisors, and ruled Scotland in the French style. David Ditchburn and Alastair MacDonald argue:\nQueen Elizabeth I, whose own legitimacy was challenged by Mary Queen of Scots, worked with the Protestant Scottish Lords to expel expelled the French from Scotland in 1560. The Treaty of Edinburgh in 1560 virtually ended the \"auld alliance.\" Protestant Scotland tied its future to Protestant England, rejecting Catholic France. However, friendly relations at the business level did continue.\n\nWhile Spain had been the dominant world power in the sixteenth and early seventeenth centuries, the English had often sided with France as a counterweight against them. This design was intended to keep a European balance of power, and prevent one country gaining overwhelming supremacy. Key to English strategy was the fear that a universal monarchy of Europe would be able to overwhelm the British Isles.\n\nFollowing the Treaty of Westphalia in 1648, as Spain's power weakened, France began to take on a more assertive role under King Louis XIV of France with an expansionist policy both in Europe and across the globe. English foreign policy was now directed towards preventing France gaining supremacy on the continent and creating a universal monarchy. To the French, England was an isolated and piratical nation heavily reliant on naval power, and particularly privateers, which they referred to as Perfidious Albion.\n\nThere was a sharp diversion in political philosophies in the two states. In England King Charles I had been executed during the English Civil War for exceeding his powers, and later King James II had been overthrown in the Glorious Revolution. In France the power of the monarchs and their advisors went largely unchecked.\n\nEngland and France fought each other in the War of the League of Augsburg from 1688 to 1697 which set the pattern for relations between France and Great Britain during the eighteenth century. Wars were fought intermittently, with each nation part of a constantly shifting pattern of alliances known as the stately quadrille.\n\nPartly out of fear of a continental intervention, an Act of Union was passed in 1707 creating the Kingdom of Great Britain, and formally merging the kingdoms of Scotland and England (the latter kingdom included Wales). While the new Britain grew increasingly parliamentarian, France continued its system of absolute monarchy.\n\nThe newly united Britain fought France in the War of the Spanish Succession from 1702 to 1713, and the War of the Austrian Succession from 1740 to 1748, attempting to maintain the balance of power in Europe. The British had a massive navy but maintained a small land army, so Britain always acted on the continent in alliance with other states such as Prussia and Austria as they were unable to fight France alone. Equally France, lacking a superior navy, was unable to launch a successful invasion of Britain.\n\nThe quarter century after the Treaty of Utrecht in 1713 was peaceful, with no major wars, and only a few secondary military episodes of minor importance. The main powers had exhausted themselves in warfare, with many deaths, disabled veterans, ruined navies, high pension costs, heavy loans and high taxes. Utrecht strengthened the sense of useful international law and inaugurated an era of relative stability in the European state system, based on balance-of-power politics that no one country would become dominant. Robert Walpole, the key British policy maker, prioritized peace in Europe because it was good for his trading nation and its growing British Empire. British historian G. M. Trevelyan argues:\nBut \"balance\" needed armed enforcement. Britain played a key military role as \"balancer.\" The goals were to bolster Europe's balance of power system to main peace that was needed for British trade to flourish and its colonies to grow, and finally to strengthen its own central position in the balance of power system in which no could dominate the rest. Other nations recognized Britain as the \"balancer.\" Eventually the balancing act required Britain to contain French ambitions. Containment led to a series of increasingly large-scale wars between Britain and France, which ended with mixed results. Britain was usually aligned with the Netherlands and Prussia, and subsidised their armies. These wars enveloped all of Europe and the overseas colonies. These wars took place in every decade starting in the 1740s and climaxed in the defeat of Napoleon's France in 1814.\n\nAs the century wore on, there was a distinct passage of power to Britain and France, at the expense of traditional major powers such as Portugal, Spain and the Dutch Republic. Some observers saw the frequent conflicts between the two states during the 18th century as a battle for control of Europe, though most of these wars ended without a conclusive victory for either side. France largely had greater influence on the continent while Britain were dominant at sea and trade, threatening French colonies abroad.\n\nFrom the 1650s, the New World increasingly became a battleground between the two powers. The Western Design of Oliver Cromwell intended to build up an increasing British presence in North America, beginning with the acquisition of Jamaica from the Spanish Empire in 1652. The first British settlement on continental North America was founded in 1607, and by the 1730s these had grown into thirteen separate colonies.\n\nThe French had settled the province of Canada to the North, and controlled Saint-Domingue in the Caribbean, the wealthiest colony in the world. Both countries, recognizing the potential of India, established trading posts there. Wars between the two states increasingly took place in these other continents, as well as Europe.\n\nThe French and British fought each other and made treaties with Native American tribes to gain control of North America. Both nations coveted the Ohio Territory and in 1753 a British expedition there led by George Washington clashed with a French force. Shortly afterwards the French and Indian War broke out, initially taking place only in North America but in 1756 becoming part of the wider Seven Years' War in which Britain and France were part of opposing coalitions.\n\nThe war has been called the first \"world war\", because fighting took place on several different continents. In 1759 the British enjoyed victories over the French in Europe, Canada and India, severely weakening the French position around the world. In 1762 the British captured the cities of Manila and Havana from Spain, France's strongest ally, which led ultimately to a peace settlement the following year that saw a large number of territories come under British control.\n\nThe Seven Years' War is regarded as a critical moment in the history of Anglo-French relations, which laid the foundations for the dominance of the British Empire during the next two and a half centuries.\n\nHaving lost New France (Canada) and India in the northern hemisphere, many Frenchmen turned their attention to building a second empire south of the equator, thereby triggering a race for the Pacific Ocean.They were supported by King Louis XV and by the Duc de Choiseul, Minister for War and for the Navy. In 1763, Louis Bougainville sailed from France with two ships, several families, cattle, horses and grain. He established the first colony in the Falkland Islands at Port Saint Louis in February 1764. This done, Bougainville's plan was to use the new settlement as a French base from where he could mount a search for the long-imagined (but still undiscovered) Southern Continent and claim it for France.\n\nMeanwhile, the Secretary of the Admiralty, Philip Stephens, swiftly and secretly dispatched John Byron to the Falklands and round the world. He was followed in 1766 by Samuel Wallis who discovered Tahiti and claimed it for Britain. Bougainville followed and claimed Tahiti for France in 1768, but when he tried to reach the east coast of New Holland (Australia), he was thwarted by the Great Barrier Reef..\n\nThe Admiralty sent Captain Cook to the Pacific on three voyages of discovery in 1768, 1772 and 1776. Cook was killed in Hawaii in 1779 and his two ships, \"Resolution\" and \"Discovery\", arrived home in October 1780.\n\nNext, in August 1785, France sent Jean-François Lapérouse to explore the Pacific Ocean. He arrived off Sydney Heads in January 1788, three days after the arrival of Britain's First Fleet. The French expedition departed Australia three months later in March 1788 and, according to the records, was never seen again.\n\nAs American Patriot dissatisfaction with British policies grew to rebellion in 1774-75, the French saw an opportunity to undermine British power. When the American War of Independence broke out in 1775, the French began sending covert supplies and intelligence to the American rebels.\nIn 1778, France, hoping to capitalise on the British defeat at Saratoga, recognized the United States of America as an independent nation. Negotiating with Benjamin Franklin in Paris, they formed a military alliance. France in 1779 persuaded its Spanish allies to declare war on Britain. France despatched troops to fight alongside the Americans, and besieged Gibraltar with Spain. Plans were drawn up, but never put into action, to launch an invasion of England. The threat forced Britain to keep many troops in Britain that were needed in America. The British were further required to withdraw forces from the American mainland to protect their more valuable possessions in the West Indies. While the French were initially unable to break the string of British victories, the combined actions of American and French forces, and a key victory by a French fleet over a British rescue fleet, forced the British into a decisive surrender at Yorktown, Virginia, in 1781. For a brief period after 1781 Britain's naval superiority was threatened subdued by an alliance between France and Spain. However, the British recovered, defeated the main French fleet in April 1782, and kept control of Gibraltar. In 1783 the Treaty of Paris gave the new nation control over most of the region east of the Mississippi River; Spain gained Florida from Britain and retained control of the vast Louisiana Territory; France received little except a huge debt.\n\nThe crippling debts incurred by France during the war, and the cost of rebuilding the French navy during the 1780s caused a financial crisis, helping contribute to the French Revolution of 1789.\n\nDuring the French Revolution, the anti-monarchical ideals of France were regarded with alarm throughout Europe. While France was plunged into chaos, Britain took advantage of its temporary weakness to stir up the civil war occurring in France and build up its naval forces. The Revolution was initially popular with many Britons, both because it appeared to weaken France and was perceived to be based on British liberal ideals. This began to change as the Jacobin faction took over, and began the Reign of Terror (or simply the Terror, for short).\n\nThe French were intent on spreading their revolutionary republicanism to other European states, including Britain. The British initially stayed out of the alliances of European states which unsuccessfully attacked France trying to restore the monarchy. In France a new, strong nationalism took hold enabling them to mobilise large and motivated forces. Following the execution of King Louis XVI of France in 1793, France declared war on Britain. This period of the French Revolutionary Wars was known as the War of the First Coalition. Except for a brief pause in 1802–03, the wars lasted continuously for twenty one years. During this time Britain raised several coalitions against the French, continually subsidising other European states with the Golden Cavalry of St George, enabling them to put large armies in the field. In spite of this, the French armies were very successful on land, creating several client states such as the Batavian Republic, and the British devoted much of their own forces to campaigns against the French in the Caribbean, with mixed results.\n\nIn 1798 French forces invaded Ireland to assist the United Irishmen who had launched a rebellion, where they were joined by thousands of rebels but were defeated by British and Irish loyalist forces. The fear of further attempts to create a French satellite in Ireland led to the Act of Union, merging the Kingdom of Great Britain and Kingdom of Ireland to create the United Kingdom in 1801. Ireland now lost its last vestiges of independence.\n\nFollowing the execution of King Louis XVI of France in 1793, France declared war on Britain. This period of the French Revolutionary Wars was known as the War of the First Coalition, which lasted from 1792 to 1797.\n\nThe British policy was to give financial and diplomatic support continental allies, who did nearly all of the actual fighting on land. France meanwhile set up the conscription system that built up a much larger army than anyone else. After the king was executed, nearly all the senior officers went into exile, and a very young new generation of officers, typified by Napoleon, took over the French military. Britain relied heavily on the Royal Navy, which sank the French fleet at the Battle of the Nile in 1798, trapping the French army in Egypt. In 1799, Napoleon came to power in France, and created a dictatorship. Britain led the Second Coalition from 1798 to 1802 against Napoleon, but he generally prevailed. The Treaty of Amiens of 1802 was favorable to France. That treaty amounted to a year-long truce in the war, which was reopened by Britain in May 1803.\n\nBritain ended the uneasy truce created by the Treaty of Amiens when it declared war on France in May 1803, thus starting the War of the Third Coalition, lasting from 1803 to 1805. The British were increasingly angered by Napoleon's reordering of the international system in Western Europe, especially in Switzerland, Germany, Italy and the Netherlands. Kagan argues that Britain was insulted and alarmed especially by Napoleon's assertion of control over Switzerland. Britons felt insulted when Napoleon said it deserved no voice in European affairs (even though King George was an elector of the Holy Roman Empire), and ought to shut down the London newspapers that were vilifying Napoleon. Russia, furthermore, decided that the Switzerland intervention indicated that Napoleon was not looking toward a peaceful resolution. Britain had a sense of loss of control, as well as loss of markets, and was worried by Napoleon's possible threat to its overseas colonies. McLynn argues that Britain went to war in 1803 out of a \"mixture of economic motives and national neuroses – an irrational anxiety about Napoleon's motives and intentions.\" However, in the end it proved to be the right choice for Britain, because in the long run Napoleon's intentions were hostile to British national interest. Furthermore, Napoleon was not ready for war and this was the best time for Britain to stop them. Britain therefore seized upon the Malta issue (by refusing to follow the terms of the Treaty of Amiens and evacuate the island).\n\nThe deeper British grievances were that Napoleon was taking personal control of Europe, making the international system unstable, and forcing Britain to the sidelines.\n\nAfter he had triumphed on the European continent against the other major European powers, Napoleon contemplated an invasion of the British mainland. That plan collapsed after the annihilation of the Franco-Spanish fleet at Trafalgar, coinciding with an Austrian attack over its Bavarian allies.\n\nIn response Napoleon established a continental system by which no nation was permitted to trade with the British. Napoleon hoped the embargo would isolate the British Isles severely weakening them, but a number of countries continued to trade with them in defiance of the policy. In spite of this, the Napoleonic influence stretched across much of Europe.\n\nIn 1808 French forces invaded Portugal trying to attempt to halt trade with Britain, turning Spain into a satellite state in the process. The British responded by dispatching a force under Sir Arthur Wellesley which captured Lisbon. Napoleon dispatched increasing forces into the Iberian Peninsula, which became the key battleground between the two nations. Allied with Spanish and Portuguese forces, the British inflicted a number of defeats on the French, confronted with a new kind of warfare called \"guerrilla\" which led Napoleon to brand it the \"Spanish Ulcer\".\n\nIn 1812, Napoleon's invasion of Russia caused a new coalition to form against him, in what became the War of the Sixth Coalition.In 1813, British forces defeated French forces in Spain and caused them to retreat into France. Allied to an increasingly resurgent European coalition, the British invaded southern France in October 1813, forcing Napoleon to abdicate and go into exile on Elba in 1814.\nAfter escaping and briefly threatening to restore the French Empire, Napoleon was defeated by combined British, Prussian and Dutch forces at Battle of Waterloo in June 1815. With strong British support, the Bourbon monarchy was restored and Louis XVIII was crowned King of France. The Napoleonic era was the last occasion on which Britain and France went to war with each other, but by no means marked the end of the rivalry between the two nations. Viscount Castlereagh shaped British foreign policy as foreign minister 1812-1822; he led the moves against Napoleon 1812 and 1815. Once the Bourbon allies were back in power he established a partnership with France during the Congress of Vienna.\n\nBritain and France never went to war after 1815, although there were a few \"war scares.\" They were allied together against Russia in the Crimean War of the 1850s.\n\nDespite having entered the Napoleonic era regarded by many as a spent force, Britain had emerged from the 1815 Congress of Vienna as the ultimate leading financial, military and cultural power of the world, going on to enjoy a century of global dominance in the Pax Britannica. France also recovered from the defeats to retake its position on the world stage. Talleyrand's friendly approaches were a precursor to the Entente Cordiale in the next century, but they lacked consistent direction and substance. Overcoming their historic enmity, the British and French eventually became political allies, as both began to turn their attentions to acquiring new territories beyond Europe. The British developed India and Canada and colonized Australia, spreading their powers to several different continents as the Second British Empire. Likewise the French were quite active in Southeast Asia and Africa.\n\nThey frequently made stereotypical jokes about each other, and even side by side in war were critical of each other's tactics. As a Royal Navy officer said to the French corsair Robert Surcouf \"You French fight for money, while we British fight for honour.\", Surcouf replied \"Sir, a man fights for what he lacks the most.\" According to one story, a French diplomat once said to Lord Palmerston \"If I were not a Frenchman, I should wish to be an Englishman\"; to which Palmerston replied: \"If I were not an Englishman, I should wish to be an Englishman.\" According to another, upon seeing the disastrous British Charge of the Light Brigade in the Crimean War against Russia, French marshal Pierre Bosquet said 'C'est magnifique, mais ce n'est pas la guerre.' ('It's magnificent, but it's not war.') Eventually, relations settled down as the two empires tried to consolidate themselves rather than extend themselves.\n\nIn 1830, France underwent the July Revolution, and the Orléanist Louis-Phillipe subsequently ascended to the throne; by contrast, the reign of Queen Victoria began in 1837 in a much more peaceful fashion. The major European powers—Russia, Austria, Britain, and to some extent Prussia—were determined to keep France in check, and so France generally pursued a cautious foreign policy. Louis-Phillipe allied with Britain, the country with which France shared the most similar form of government, and its combative Foreign Secretary Lord Palmerston. In Louis-Philippe's first year in power, he refused to annex Belgium during its revolution, instead following the British line of supporting independence. Despite posturings from leading French minister Adolphe Thiers in 1839–1840 that France would protect the increasingly powerful Muhammad Ali of Egypt (a viceroy of the Ottoman Empire), any reinforcements were not forthcoming, and in 1840, much to France's embarrassment, Ali was forced to sign the Convention of London by the powers. Relations cooled again under the governments of François Guizot and Robert Peel. They soured once more in 1846 though when, with Palmerston back as Foreign Secretary, the French government hastily agreed to have Isabella II of Spain and her sister marry members of the Bourbon and Orléanist dynasties, respectively. Palmerston had hoped to arrange a marriage, and \"The Affair of the Spanish Marriages\" has generally been viewed unfavourably by British historians (\"By the dispassionate judgment of history it has been universally condemned\"), although a more sympathetic view has been taken in recent years.\n\nLord Aberdeen (foreign secretary 1841–46) brokered an Entente Cordiale with François Guizot and France in the early 1840s. However Louis-Napoléon Bonaparte was elected president of France in 1848 and made himself Emperor Napoleon III in 1851. Napoleon III had an expansionist foreign policy, which saw the French deepen the colonisation of Africa and establish new colonies, in particular Indochina. The British were initially alarmed, and commissioned a series of forts in southern England designed to resist a French invasion. Lord Palmerston as foreign minister and prime minister had close personal ties with leading French statesmen, notably Napoleon III himself. Palmerston's goal was to arrange peaceful relations with France in order to free Britain's diplomatic hand elsewhere in the world. Napoleon at first had a pro-British foreign policy, and was eager not to displease the British government whose friendship he saw as important to France. After a brief threat of an invasion of Britain in 1851, France and Britain cooperated in the 1850s, with an alliance in the Crimean War, and a major trade treaty in 1860. However Britain viewed the Second Empire with increasing distrust, especially as the emperor built up his navy, expanded his empire and took up a more active foreign policy.\n\nThe two nations were military allies during the Crimean War (1853–56) to curb Russia's expansion westwards and its threats to the Ottoman Empire. However, when London discovered that Napoleon III was secretly negotiating with Russia to form a postwar alliance to dominate Europe, it hastily abandoned its plan to end the war by attacking St. Petersburg. Instead Britain concluded an armistice with Russia that achieved none of its war aims.\n\nThe two nations also co-operated during the Second Opium War with China, dispatching a joint force to the Chinese capital Peking to force a treaty on the Chinese Qing Dynasty. In 1859 Napoleon, bypassing the Corps législatif which he feared would not approve of free trade, met with influential reformer Richard Cobden, and in 1860 the Cobden-Chevalier Treaty was signed between the two countries, reducing tariffs on goods sold between Britain and France.\n\nDuring the American Civil War both nations remained neutral. France came close to entering on the side of the Confederate States of America. The cutoff of cotton shipments caused economic depression in the textile industry, resulting in widespread unemployment and suffering among workers, and support for an intervention that would reopen the trade. In the end Britain refused to go to war and France followed suit.\n\nNapoleon III attempted to gain British support for a scheme to put an Austrian Prince, Maximilian I, on the throne of Mexico, but the British were not willing to support any action other than the collection of debts owed by the Mexicans. This forced the French to act alone in the French Intervention in Mexico. The U.S. helped the Juarez regime and France pulled out its troops. Its puppet Emperor Maximilian was executed by the Mexicans. When Napoleon III was overthrown in 1870, he fled to exile in England.\n\nIn the 1875-1898 era, tensions were high, especially over Egyptian and African issues. At several points, these issues brought the two nations to the brink of war; but the situation was always defused diplomatically. For two decades, there was peace—but it was \"an armed peace, characterized by alarms, distrust, rancour and irritation.\" During the Scramble for Africa in the 1880s, the British and French generally recognised each other's spheres of influence. In an agreement in 1890 Great Britain was recognized in Bahr-el-Ghazal and Darfur, while Wadai, Bagirmi, Kanem, and the territory to the north and east of Lake Chad were assigned to France.\n\nThe Suez Canal, initially built by the French, became a joint British-French project in 1875, as both saw it as vital to maintaining their influence and empires in Asia. In 1882, ongoing civil disturbances in Egypt (\"see Urabi Revolt\") prompted Britain to intervene, extending a hand to France. France's expansionist Prime Minister Jules Ferry was out of office, and the government was unwilling to send more than an intimidating fleet to the region. Britain established a protectorate, as France had a year earlier in Tunisia, and popular opinion in France later put this action down to duplicity. It was about this time that the two nations established co-ownership of Vanuatu. The Anglo-French Convention of 1882 was also signed to resolve territory disagreements in western Africa.\n\nOne brief but dangerous dispute occurred during the Fashoda Incident in 1898 when French troops tried to claim an area in the Southern Sudan, and a British force purporting to be acting in the interests of the Khedive of Egypt arrived. Under heavy pressure the French withdrew and Britain took control over the area, As France recognized British control of the Sudan. France received control of the small kingdom of Wadai, Which consolidated its holdings in northwest Africa. France had failed in its main goals. P.M.H. Bell says:\n\nFashoda was a diplomatic victory for the British because the French realized that in the long run they needed friendship with Britain in case of a war between France and Germany.\n\nFrom about 1900, Francophiles in Britain and Anglophiles in France began to spread a study and mutual respect and love of the culture of the country on the other side of the English Channel. Francophile and Anglophile societies developed, further introducing Britain to French food and wine, and France to English sports like rugby. French and English were already the second languages of choice in Britain and France respectively. Eventually this developed into a political policy as the new united Germany was seen as a potential threat. Louis Blériot, for example, crossed the Channel in an aeroplane in 1909. Many saw this as symbolic of the connection between the two countries. This period in the first decade of the 20th century became known as the \"Entente Cordiale\", and continued in spirit until the 1940s. The signing of the Entente Cordiale also marked the end of almost a millennium of intermittent conflict between the two nations and their predecessor states, and the formalisation of the peaceful co-existence that had existed since the end of the Napoleonic Wars in 1815. Up to 1940, relations between Britain and France were closer than those between Britain and the US. This also started the beginning of the French and British \"Special Relationship\". After 1907 the British fleet was built up to stay far ahead of Germany. However Britain nor France committed itself to entering a war if Germany attacked the other.\n\nIn 1904 Paris and London agreed that Britain would establish a protectorate over Egypt, and France would do the same over Morocco. Germany objected, and the conference at Algeciras in 1906 settled the issue as Germany was outmaneuvered.\n\nBritain tried to stay neutral as the First World War opened in summer 1914, as France joined in to help its ally Russia according to its treaty obligations. Britain had no relevant treaty obligations except one to keep Belgium neutral, and was not in close touch with the French leaders. Britain entered when the German army invaded neutral Belgium (on its way to attack Paris); that was intolerable. It joined France, sending a large army to fight on the Western Front.\n\nThere was close co-operation between the British and French forces. French Commander-in-Chief Joseph Joffre worked to coordinate Allied military operations and to mount a combined Anglo-French offensive on the Western Front. The result was the great Battle of the Somme in 1916 with massive casualties on both sides and no gains. Paul Painlevé took important decisions during 1917 as France's war minister and then, for nine week's, premier. He promoted the Nivelle Offensive—which failed badly and had negative effects and its effects on the British Army. The positive result was the decision to form the Supreme War Council that led eventually to unity of command. The disasters at Passchendaele hurt Britain, its army and civil-military relations.\n\nUnable to advance against the combined primary alliance powers of the British, French, and later American forces as well as the blockade preventing shipping reaching German controlled North Sea seaports, the Germans eventually surrendered after four years of heavy fighting.\n\nFollowing the war, at the Treaty of Versailles the British and French worked closely with the Americans to dominate the main decisions. Both were also keen to protect and expand their empires, in the face of calls for self-determination. On a visit to London, French leader Georges Clemenceau was hailed by the British crowds. Lloyd George was given a similar reception in Paris.\n\nLloyd George worked hard to moderate French demands for revenge. Clemenceau wanted terms to cripple Germany's war potential that were too harsh for Wilson and Lloyd George. A compromise was reached whereby Clemenceau softened his terms and the U.S. and Britain promised a Security Treaty that would guarantee armed intervention by both if Germany invaded France. The British ratified the treaty on condition the U.S. ratified. in the United States Senate, the Republicans were supportive, but Wilson insisted this security treaty be closely tied to the overall Versailles Treaty, and Republicans refused and so it never came to a vote in the Senate. Thus there was no treaty at all to help defend France.\n\nBritain soon had to moderate French policy toward Germany, as in the Locarno Treaties. Under Prime Minister Ramsay MacDonald in 1923-24 Britain took the lead in getting France to accept the American solution through the Dawes Plan and the Young Plan, whereby Germany paid its reparations using money borrowed from New York banks.\n\nBoth states joined the League of Nations, and both signed agreements of defence of several countries, most significantly Poland. The Treaty of Sèvres split the Middle East between the two states, in the form of mandates. However the outlook of the nations were different during the inter-war years; while France saw itself inherently as a European power, Britain enjoyed close relationships with Australia, Canada and New Zealand and supported the idea of imperial free trade, a form of protectionism that would have seen large tariffs placed on goods from France.\n\nIn the 1920s, financial instability was a major problem for France, and other nations as well. it was vulnerable to short-term concerted action by banks and financial institutions by heavy selling or buying, in the financial crisis could weaken governments, and be used as a diplomatic threat. Premier and Finance Minister Raymond Poincaré decided to stabilise the franc to protect against political currency manipulation by Germany and Britain. His solution in 1926 was a return to a fixed parity against gold. France not always able able to turn the tables and use short-term financial advantage as leverage against Britain on important policy matters.\n\nin general, France and Britain were aligned in their position on major issues. A key reason was the Francophile position of Foreign Minister Austen Chamberlain, and the ambassador to Paris the Marquess of Crewe (1922-28). They promoted a pro-French policy regarding French security and disarmament policy, the later stages of the Ruhr crisis, the implementation of the Geneva Protocol, the Treaty of Locarno and the origins of the Kellogg-Briand Pact. The high point of cooperation came with the Treaty of Locarno in 1925, which brought Germany into good terms with France and Britain. However, relations with France became increasingly tense because Chamberlain grew annoyed that foreign minister Aristide Briand’s diplomatic agenda did not have at its heart a reinvigorated Entente Cordiale. Furthermore, Britain thought disarmament was the key to peace but France disagreed because of its profound fear of German militarism. London decided Paris really sought military dominance of Europe. Before 1933, most Britons saw France, not Germany, as the chief threat to peace and harmony in Europe. France did not suffer as severe an economic recession, and was the strongest military power, but still it refused British overtures for disarmament.\n\nIn the 1930s Britain and France coordinated their policies toward the dictatorships of Mussolini's Italy and Hitler's Germany. However public opinion did not support going to war again, so the diplomats sought diplomatic solutions, but none worked. Efforts to use the League of Nations to apply sanctions against Italy for its invasion of Ethiopia failed. France supported the \"Little Entente\" of Czechoslovakia, Romania, and Yugoslavia. It proved much too weak to deter Germany.\n\nThe Anglo-German Naval Agreement was signed between Britain and Nazi Germany in 1935, allowing Hitler to reinforce his navy. It was regarded by the French as the ruining of the anti-Hitlerian Stresa front. Britain and France collaborated closely especially in the late 1930s regarding Germany, based on informal promises with no written treaty. Efforts were made to negotiate a treaty but they failed in 1936, underscoring French weakness.\n\nIn the years leading up to World War II, both countries followed a similar diplomatic path of appeasement of Germany. As Nazi intentions became clear, France pushed for a harder line but the British demurred, believing diplomacy could solve the disputes. The result was the Munich Agreement of 1938 that gave Germany control of parts of Czechoslovakia settled by Germans. In early 1939 Germany took over all of Czechoslovakia and began threatening Poland. Appeasement had failed, and both Britain and France raced to catch up with Germany in weaponry.\n\nAfter guaranteeing the independence of Poland, both declared war on Germany on the same day, 3 September 1939, after the Germans ignored an ultimatum to withdraw from the country. When Germany began its attack on France in 1940, British troops and French troops again fought side by side. Eventually, after the Germans came through the Ardennes, it became more possible that France would not be able to fend off the German attack. The final bond between the two nations was so strong that members of the British cabinet had proposed a temporary union of the two countries for the sake of morale: the plan was drawn up by Jean Monnet, who later created the Common Market. The idea was not popular with a majority on either side, and the French government felt that, in the circumstances, the plan for union would reduce France to the level of a British Dominion. When London ordered to withdraw the English expeditionary corps from France without telling the French and Belgium forces and then refused to provide France a real air support the proposal was definitely turned down. Later The Free French resistance, led by Charles de Gaulle, were formed in London, after de Gaulle gave his famous 'Appeal of the 18th of June', broadcast by the BBC. De Gaulle declared himself to be the head of the one and only true government of France, and gathered the Free French Forces around him.\n\nAfter the pre-emptive destruction of a large part of the French fleet by the British at Mers-el-Kebir (3 July 1940), as well as a similar attack on French ships in Oran on the grounds that they might fall into German hands, there was nationwide anti-British indignation and a long-lasting feeling of betrayal in France. In southern France a collaborative government known as Vichy France was set up on 10 July. It was officially neutral, but metropolitan France came increasingly under German control. The Vichy government initially controlled Syria (until spring 1941) and French North Africa (until November 1942), and French troops and naval forces therein. Eventually, several important French ships joined the Free French Forces.\n\nOne by one de Gaulle took control of the French colonies, beginning with central Africa in autumn`1940, and gained recognition from Britain but not the United States. An Anglo-Free French attack on Vichy territory was repulsed at the Battle of Dakar in September 1940. Washington maintained diplomatic relations with Vichy (until October 1942) and avoided recognition of de Gaulle. Churchill, caught between the U.S. and de Gaulle, tried to find a compromise.\n\nFollowing D-Day, relations between the two peoples were at a high, as the British were greeted as liberators. Following the surrender of Germany in May 1945, the UK and France became close as both feared the Americans would withdraw from Europe leaving them vulnerable to the Soviet Union's expanding communist bloc. The UK was successfully in strongly advocating that France be given a zone of occupied Germany. Both states were amongst the five Permanent Members of the new UN Security Council, where they commonly collaborated. However, France was bitter when the United States and Britain refused to share atomic secrets with it. The upshot was France developed its own nuclear weapons and delivery systems. \n\nThe Cold War began in 1947, as the United States, with strong British support, announced the Truman Doctrine to contain Communist expansion and provided military and economic aid to Greece and Turkey. Despite its large pro-Soviet Communist Party, France joined the Allies. The first move was the Franco-British alliance realized in the Dunkirk Treaty in March 1947.\n\nIn 1956 the Suez Canal, previously owned by an Anglo-French company, was nationalised by the Egyptian government. The British and the French were both strongly committed to taking the canal back by force. Both the British and French governments saw the actions of the Egypt president Gamal Abdel Nasser as potentially dangerous to their interests in trade, and within the framework of the Cold War and the tensions of the newly independent.\n\nThe Americans, while opposed to Nasser, refused to become involved with what many regarded as European colonialism, putting severe strain on the Anglo-American special relationship. The relations between Britain and France were not entirely harmonious, as the French did not inform the British about the involvement of Israel until very close to the commencement of military operations.\n\nImmediately after the Suez crisis Anglo-French relations started to sour again, and only since the last decades of the 20th century have they improved towards the peak they achieved between 1900 and 1940.\n\nShortly after 1956, France, West Germany, Italy, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg formed what would become the European Economic Community and later the European Union, but rejected British requests for membership. In particular, President Charles de Gaulle's attempts to exclude the British from European affairs during France's early Fifth Republic are now seen by many in Britain as a betrayal of the strong bond between the countries, and Anthony Eden's exclusion of France from the Commonwealth is seen in a similar light in France. The French partly feared that were the British to join the EEC they would attempt to dominate it.\n\nOver the years, the UK and France have often taken diverging courses within the European Community. British policy has favoured an expansion of the Community and free trade while France has advocated a closer political union and restricting membership of the Community to a core of Western European states.\n\nIn 1958 with France mired in a seemingly unwinnable war in Algeria, Charles de Gaulle, the wartime leader of the Free French, returned to power in France. He created the Fifth French Republic, ending the post-war parliamentary system and replacing it with a strong Presidency, which became dominated by his followers—the Gaullists. De Gaulle made ambitious changes to French foreign policy—first ending the war in Algeria, and then withdrawing France from the NATO command structure. the latter move was primarily symbolic, but NATO headquarters moved to Brussels and French generals had a much lesser role.\n\nFrench policy blocking British entry into the European Economic Community (EEC) was primarily motivated by political rather than economic considerations. In 1967, as in 1961-63, de Gaulle was determined to preserve France's dominance within the EEC, which was the foundation of the nation's international stature. His policy was to preserve the Community of Six while barring Britain. Although France succeeded in excluding Britain in the short term, in the longer term the French had to adjust their stance on enlargement in order to retain influence. De Gaulle feared that letting Britain into the European Community would open the way for Anglo-Saxon (i.e., US and UK) influence to overwhelm the France-West Germany coalition that was now dominant. On 14 January 1963, de Gaulle announced that France would veto Britain's entry into the Common Market.\n\nWhen de Gaulle resigned in 1969, a new French government under Georges Pompidou was prepared to open a more friendly dialogue with Britain. He felt that in the economic crises of the 1970s Europe needed Britain. Pompidou welcomed British membership of the EEC, opening the way for the United Kingdom to join it in 1973.\n\nThe two countries' relationship was strained significantly in the lead-up to the 2003 War in Iraq. Britain and its American ally strongly advocated the use of force to remove Saddam Hussein, while France (with China, Russia, and other nations) strongly opposed such action, with French President Jacques Chirac threatening to veto any resolution proposed to the UN Security Council. However, despite such differences Chirac and then British Prime Minister Tony Blair maintained a fairly close relationship during their years in office even after the Iraq War started. Both states asserted the importance of the Entente Cordiale alliance, and the role it had played during the 20th century.\n\nFollowing his election in 2007, President Nicolas Sarkozy attempted to forge closer relations between France and the United Kingdom: in March 2008, Prime Minister Gordon Brown said that \"there has never been greater cooperation between France and Britain as there is now\". Sarkozy also urged both countries to \"overcome our long-standing rivalries and build together a future that will be stronger because we will be together\". He also said \"If we want to change Europe my dear British friends—and we Frenchmen do wish to change Europe—we need you inside Europe to help us do so, not standing on the outside.\" On 26 March 2008, Sarkozy had the privilege of giving a speech to both British Houses of Parliament, where he called for a \"brotherhood\" between the two countries and stated that \"France will never forget Britain's war sacrifice\" during World War II.\n\nIn March 2008, Sarkozy made a state visit to Britain, promising closer cooperation between the two countries' governments in the future.\n\nThe final months towards the end of François Hollande's tenure as President saw the UK vote to leave the EU. His response to the result was \"I profoundly regret this decision for the United Kingdom and for Europe, but the choice is theirs and we have to respect it.\"\n\nEconomy Minister and, currently, President, Emmanuel Macron accused the UK of taking the EU \"hostage\" with a referendum called to solve a domestic political problem of eurosceptics and that \"the failure of the British government [has opened up] the possibility of the crumbling of Europe.\"\n\nIn contrast, the vote was welcomed by Eurosceptic political leaders and presidential candidates Marine Le Pen and Nicolas Dupont-Aignan as a victory for \"freedom\".\n\nThe two nations have a post WWII record of working together on international security measures, as was seen in the Suez Crisis and Falklands War.\nOn 2 November 2010, France and the UK signed two defence co-operation treaties. They provide for the sharing of aircraft carriers, a 1000-strong joint reaction force, a common nuclear simulation centre in France, a common nuclear research centre in the UK, sharing air-refuelling tankers and joint training.\n\nTheir post-colonial entanglements have given them a more outward focus than the other countries of Europe, leading them to work together on issues such as the Libyan Civil War.\n\nFrance is the United Kingdom's third-biggest export market after the United States and Germany. Exports to France rose 14.3% from £16.542 billion in 2010 to £18.905 billion in 2011, overtaking exports to the Netherlands. Over the same period, French exports to Britain rose 5.5% from £18.133 billion to £19.138 billion.\n\nThe British Foreign & Commonwealth Office estimates that 19.3 million British citizens, roughly a third of the entire population, visit France each year. In 2012, the French were the biggest visitors to the UK (12%, 3,787,000) and the second-biggest tourist spenders in Britain (8%, £1.513 billion).\n\nThe Entente Cordiale Scholarship scheme is a selective Franco-British scholarship scheme which was announced on 30 October 1995 by British Prime Minister John Major and French President Jacques Chirac at an Anglo-French summit in London.\n\nIt provides funding for British and French students to study for one academic year on the other side of the Channel. The scheme is administered by the French embassy in London for British students, and by the British Council in France and the UK embassy in Paris for French students. Funding is provided by the private sector and foundations.\nThe scheme aims to favour mutual understanding and to promote exchanges between the British and French leaders of tomorrow.\n\nThe programme was initiated by Sir Christopher Mallaby, British ambassador to France between 1993 and 1996.\n\nThe Concorde supersonic commercial aircraft was developed under an international treaty between the UK and France in 1962, and commenced flying in 1969.\n\nIn general, France is regarded with favour by Britain in regard to its high culture and is seen as an ideal holiday destination, whilst France sees Britain as a major trading partner. Both countries are famously contemptuous of each other's cooking, many French claiming all British food is bland and boring, whilst many British claim that French food is inedible. Much of the apparent disdain for French food and culture in Britain takes the form of self-effacing humour, and British comedy often uses French culture as the butt of its jokes. Whether this is representative of true opinion or not is open to debate. Sexual euphemisms with no link to France, such as \"French kissing\", or \"French letter\" for a condom, are used in British English slang.\n\nFrench classical music has always been popular in Britain. British popular music is in turn popular in France. English literature, in particular the works of Agatha Christie and William Shakespeare, has been immensely popular in France. French artist Eugène Delacroix based many of his paintings on scenes from Shakespeare's plays. In turn, French writers such as Molière, Voltaire and Victor Hugo have been translated numerous times into English. In general, most of the more popular books in either language are translated into the other.\n\nThe first foreign language most commonly taught in schools in Britain is French, and the first foreign language most commonly taught in schools in France is English; those are also the languages perceived as \"most useful to learn\" in both countries. Queen Elizabeth II of the UK is fluent in French and does not require an interpreter when travelling to French-language countries. French is a substantial minority language and immigrant language in the United Kingdom, with over 100,000 French-born people in the UK. According to a 2006 European Commission report, 23% of UK residents are able to carry on a conversation in French and 39% of French residents are able to carry on a conversation in English. French is also an official language in both Jersey and Guernsey. Both use French to some degree, mostly in an administrative or ceremonial capacity. Jersey Legal French is the standardized variety used in Jersey. However, Norman (in its local forms, Guernésiais and Jèrriais) is the historical vernacular of the islands.\n\nBoth languages have influenced each other throughout the years. According to different sources, nearly 30% of all English words have a French origin, and today many French expressions have entered the English language as well. The term Franglais, a portmanteau combining the French words \"\"français\" and \"anglais\"\", refers to the combination of French and English (mostly in the UK) or the use of English words and nouns of Anglo-Saxon roots in French (in France).\n\nModern and Middle English reflect a mixture of Oïl and Old English lexicons after the Norman Conquest of England in 1066, when a Norman-speaking aristocracy took control of a population whose mother tongue was Germanic in origin. Due to the intertwined histories of England and continental possessions of the English Crown, many formal and legal words in Modern English have French roots. For example, \"buy\" and \"sell\" are of Germanic origin, while \"purchase\" and \"vend\" are from Old French.\n\nIn the sport of rugby union there is a rivalry between England and France. Both countries compete in the Six Nations Championship and the Rugby World Cup. England have the edge in both tournaments, having the most outright wins in the Six Nations (and its previous version the Five Nations), and most recently knocking the French team out of the 2003 and 2007 World Cups at the semi-final stage, although France knocked England out of the 2011 Rugby World Cup with a convincing score in their quarter final match. Though rugby is originally a British sport, French rugby has developed to such an extent that the English and French teams are now stiff competitors, with neither side greatly superior to the other.\n\nThe influence of French players and coaches on British football has been increasing in recent years and is often cited as an example of Anglo-French cooperation. In particular the Premier League club Arsenal has become known for its Anglo-French connection due to a heavy influx of French players since the advent of French manager Arsène Wenger in 1996. In March 2008 their Emirates stadium was chosen as the venue for a meeting during a state visit by the French President precisely for this reason.\n\nMany people blamed the then French President Jacques Chirac for contributing to Paris' loss to London in its bid for the 2012 Summer Olympics after he made deregatory remarks about British cuisine and saying that \"only Finnish food is worse\". The IOC committee which would ultimately decide to give the games to London had two members from Finland.\n\nThe busiest seaway in the world, the English Channel, connects ports in Great Britain such as Dover, Newhaven, Poole, Weymouth, Portsmouth and Plymouth to ports such as Roscoff, Calais, Boulogne, Dunkerque, Dieppe, Cherbourg-Octeville, Caen, St Malo and Le Havre in mainland France. Companies such as Brittany Ferries, P&O Ferries, DFDS Seaways and LD Lines operate ferry services across the Channel.\n\nIn addition, there are ferries across the Anguilla Channel between Blowing Point, Anguilla (a British Overseas Territory) and Marigot, Saint Martin (an overseas collectivity of France).\nThe Channel Tunnel (; also referred to as the Chunnel) is a 50.5-kilometre (31.4 mi) undersea rail tunnel (linking Folkestone, Kent, in the United Kingdom with Coquelles, Pas-de-Calais, near the city of Calais in northern France) beneath the English Channel at the Strait of Dover. Ideas for a cross-Channel fixed link appeared as early as 1802, but British political and press pressure over compromised national security stalled attempts to construct a tunnel. The eventual successful project, organised by Eurotunnel, began construction in 1988 and was opened by British Queen Elizabeth II and French President François Mitterrand in a ceremony held in Calais on 6 May 1994. The same year the American Society of Civil Engineers elected the Channel Tunnel as one of the seven modern Wonders of the World.\n\n11,675,910 passengers in 2008 travelled on flights between the United Kingdom and France.\n\nThere are lists of twinnings (including those to towns in other countries) at List of twin towns and sister cities in France and at List of twin towns and sister cities in the United Kingdom.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5323982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5323982", "title": "Gemenc", "text": "Gemenc\n\nGemenc is a unique forest that is found between Szekszárd and Baja, in Hungary. This is the only remaining tidal area of the Danube in Hungary. The wood's fauna include stags, boars, storks, grey herons, gyrfalcons, white-tailed eagles, and kites. Various amphibians and reptiles can also be found. The stag population has worldwide fame, since its genetic stock is outstanding, and the stags' antlers are impressive. Due to the various watery habitats, many fish species are present.\n\nClose to the waters, willow and poplar forests are typical. It is the habitat of the curiosity Freyer's purple emperor (). Furthermore, Gemenc is home to 13 other sheltered butterfly species.\n\nFarther from the rivers, large oak-ash-elm forests spread. These are the homes of the stag beetles, great pricorn beetles, as well as of a kind of spider which only lives in Gemenc.\n\nGemenc is part of the Danube-Drava National Park, and it is a nature reserve.\n\n"}
{"id": "14687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14687", "title": "Geography of Israel", "text": "Geography of Israel\n\nThe geography of Israel is very diverse, with desert conditions in the south, and snow-capped mountains in the north. Israel is located at the eastern end of the Mediterranean Sea in western Asia. It is bounded to the north by Lebanon, the northeast by Syria, the east by Jordan and the West Bank, and to the southwest by Egypt. To the west of Israel is the Mediterranean Sea, which makes up the majority of Israel's coastline and the Gaza Strip. Israel has a small coastline on the Red Sea in the south.\n\nIsrael's area is approximately , which includes of inland water. Israel stretches from north to south, and its width ranges from to, at its narrowest point, .\n\nThe Israeli-occupied territories include the West Bank, , East Jerusalem, and the Golan Heights, . Geographical features in these territories will be noted as such. Of these areas, Israel has annexed East Jerusalem and the Golan Heights, an act not recognised by the international community.\n\nSouthern Israel is dominated by the Negev desert, covering some , more than half of the country's total land area. The north of the Negev contains the Judean Desert, which, at its border with Jordan, contains the Dead Sea which, at is the lowest point on Earth. The inland area of central Israel is dominated by the Judean Hills of the West Bank, whilst the central and northern coastline consists of the flat and fertile Israeli coastal plain. Inland, the northern region contains the Mount Carmel mountain range, which is followed inland by the fertile Jezreel Valley, and then the hilly Galilee region. The Sea of Galilee is located beyond this, and is bordered to the east by the Golan Heights, a plateau bordered to the north by the Israeli-occupied part of the Mount Hermon massif, which includes the highest point under Israel's control, a peak of . The highest point in territory internationally recognized as Israeli is Mount Meron at .\n\nIsrael lies to the north of the equator around 31°30' north latitude and 34°45' east longitude. It measures from north to south and, at its widest point , from east to west. At its narrowest point, however, this is reduced to just . It has a land frontier of and a coastline of . It is ranked 153 on the List of countries and outlying territories by total area.\n\nPrior to the establishment of the British Mandate for Palestine, there was no clear-cut definition of the geographical and territorial limits of the area known as \"Palestine.\" On the eve of World War I it was described by Encyclopædia Britannica as a \"nebulous geographical concept.\" The Sykes-Picot Treaty in 1916 divided the region that later became Palestine into four political units. Under the British Mandate for Palestine, the first geo-political framework was created that distinguished the area from the larger countries that surrounded it. The boundary demarcation at this time did not introduce geographical changes near the frontiers and both sides of the border were controlled by the British administration.\n\nModern Israel is bounded to the north by Lebanon, the northeast by Syria, the east by Jordan and the West Bank, and to the southwest by Egypt. To the west of Israel is the Mediterranean Sea, which makes up the majority of Israel's 273 km (170 mi) coastline and the Gaza Strip. Israel has a small coastline on the Red Sea in the south. The southernmost settlement in Israel is the city of Eilat whilst the northernmost is the town of Metula. The territorial waters of Israel extend into the sea to a distance of twelve nautical miles measured from the appropriate baseline.\n\nThe statistics provided by the Israel Central Bureau of Statistics include the annexed East Jerusalem and Golan Heights, but exclude the West Bank and Gaza Strip. The population of Israel includes Israeli settlers in the West Bank. The route of the Israeli West Bank barrier incorporates some parts of the West Bank.\n\nIsrael is divided into four physiographic regions: the Mediterranean coastal plain, the Central Hills, the Jordan Rift Valley and the Negev Desert.\n\nThe Israeli Coastal Plain stretches from the Lebanese border in the north to Gaza in the south, interrupted only by Cape Carmel at Haifa Bay. It is about wide at Gaza and narrows toward the north to about at the Lebanese border. The region is fertile and humid (historically malarial) and is known for its citrus orchards and viticulture. The plain is traversed by several short streams. From north to south these are: Kishon, Hadera, Alexander, Poleg, and Yarkon. All of these streams were badly polluted, but in the last ten years much work has been done to clean them up. Today the Kishon, Alexander and Yarkon again flow year round, and also have parks along their banks.\n\nGeographically, the region is divided into five sub-regions. The northernmost section lays between the Lebanese border, the Western Galilee to the east, and the sea. It stretches from Rosh HaNikra in the north and down to Haifa, Israel's third-largest city. It is a fertile region, and off the coast there are many small islands. Along the Mount Carmel range is Hof HaCarmel, or the Carmel Coastal Plain. It stretches from the point where Mount Carmel almost touches the sea, at Haifa, and down to Nahal Taninim, a stream that marks the southern limit of the Carmel range. The Sharon Plain is the next section, running from Nahal Taninim (south of Zikhron Ya'akov) to Tel Aviv's Yarkon River. This area is Israel's most densely populated. South of this, running to Nahal Shikma, is the Central Coastal Plain, also known as the Western Negev. The last segment is the Southern Coastal Plain, which extends south around the Gaza Strip. It is divided into two – in the north, the Besor region, a savanna-type area with a relatively large number of communities, and south of it the Agur-Halutza region, which is very sparsely populated.\n\nInland (east) of the coastal plain lies the central highland region. In the north of this region lie the mountains and hills of Upper Galilee and Lower Galilee, which are generally to in height, although they reach a maximum height of at Mount Meron. South of the Galilee, in the West Bank, are the Samarian Hills with numerous small, fertile valleys rarely reaching the height of . South of Jerusalem, also mainly within the West Bank, are the Judean Hills, including Mount Hebron. The central highlands average in height and reach their highest elevation at Har Meron, at , in Galilee near Safed. Several valleys cut across the highlands roughly from east to west; the largest is the Jezreel Valley (also known as the Plain of Esdraelon), which stretches from Haifa southeast to the valley of the Jordan River, and is across at its widest point.\n\nEast of the central highlands lies the Jordan Rift Valley, which is a small part of the -long Syrian-East African Rift. In Israel the Rift Valley is dominated by the Jordan River, the Sea of Galilee (an important freshwater source also known as Lake Tiberias and Lake Kinneret), and the Dead Sea. The Jordan, Israel's largest river (), originates in the Dan, Baniyas, and Hasbani rivers near Mount Hermon in the Anti-Lebanon Mountains and flows south through the drained Hula Basin into the freshwater Lake Tiberias. Lake Tiberias is in size and, depending on the season and rainfall, is at about below sea level. With a water capacity estimated at , it serves as the principal reservoir of the National Water Carrier (also known as the Kinneret-Negev Conduit). The Jordan River continues its course from the southern end of Lake Tiberias (forming the boundary between the West Bank and Jordan) to its terminus in the highly saline Dead Sea. The Dead Sea is in size and, at below sea level, is the lowest surface point on the earth. South of the Dead Sea, the Rift Valley continues in the Arabah (Hebrew \"Arava\", Arabic \"Wadi 'Arabah\"), which has no permanent water flow, for to the Gulf of Eilat.\n\nThe Negev Desert comprises approximately , more than half of Israel's total land area. Geographically it is an extension of the Sinai Desert, forming a rough triangle with its base in the north near Beersheba, the Dead Sea, and the southern Judean Mountains, and it has its apex in the southern tip of the country at Eilat. Topographically, it parallels the other regions of the country, with lowlands in the west, hills in the central portion, and the Arava valley as its eastern border.\n\nUnique to the Negev region are the craterlike makhteshim cirques; Makhtesh Ramon, Makhtesh Gadol and Makhtesh Katan. The Negev is also sub-divided into five different ecological regions: northern, western and central Negev, the high plateau and the Arabah Valley. The northern Negev receives of rain annually and has fairly fertile soils. The western Negev receives of rain per year, with light and partially sandy soils. The central Negev has an annual precipitation of and is characterized by impervious soil, allowing minimum penetration of water with greater soil erosion and water runoff. This can result in rare flash floods during heavy rains as water runs across the surface of the impervious desert soil. The high plateau area of Ramat HaNegev stands between and above sea level with extreme temperatures in summer and winter. The area gets of rain each year, with inferior and partially salty soils. The Arabah Valley along the Jordanian border stretches from Eilat in the south to the tip of the Dead Sea in the north and is very arid with barely of rain annually.\n\nIsrael is divided east-west by a mountain range running north to south along the coast. Jerusalem sits on the top of this ridge, east of which lies the Dead Sea graben which is a pull-apart basin on the Dead Sea Transform fault.\n\nThe numerous limestone and sandstone layers of the Israeli mountains serve as aquifers through which water flows from the west flank to the east. Several springs have formed along the Dead Sea, each an oasis, most notably the oases at Ein Gedi and Ein Bokek (Neve Zohar) where settlements have developed. Israel also has a number of areas of karst topography. Caves in the region have been used for thousands of years as shelter, storage rooms, barns and as places of public gatherings.\n\nThe far northern coastline of the country has some chalk landscapes best seen at Rosh HaNikra, a chalk cliff into which a series of grottoes have been eroded.\n\nThe Jordan Rift Valley is the result of tectonic movements within the Dead Sea Transform (DSF) fault system. The DSF forms the transform boundary between the African Plate to the west and the Arabian Plate to the east. The Golan Heights and all of Jordan are part of the Arabian Plate, while the Galilee, West Bank, Coastal Plain, and Negev along with the Sinai Peninsula are on the African Plate. This tectonic disposition leads to a relatively high seismic activity in the region.\n\nThe entire Jordan Valley segment is thought to have ruptured repeatedly, for instance during the last two major earthquakes along this structure in 749 and 1033. The deficit in slip that has built up since the 1033 event is sufficient to cause an earthquake of ~7.4.\n\nThe most catastrophic earthquakes occurred in 31 BCE, 363, 749, and 1033 CE, that is every ca. 400 years on average. Destructive earthquakes leading to serious loss of life strike about every 80 years. While stringent construction regulations are currently in place and recently built structures are earthquake-safe, as of 2007 the majority of the buildings in Israel were older than these regulations and many public buildings as well as 50,000 residential buildings did not meet the new standards and were \"expected to collapse\" if exposed to a strong quake. Given the fragile political situation of the Middle East region and the presence there of major holy sites, a quake reaching magnitude 7 on the Richter scale could have dire consequences for world peace.\n\nIsrael's longest and most famous river is the long River Jordan, which rises on the southern slopes of Mount Hermon in the Anti-Lebanon mountains. The river flows south through the freshwater Sea of Galilee, and from there forms the boundary with the Kingdom of Jordan for much of its route, eventually emptying into the Dead Sea. The northern tributaries to the Jordan are the Dan, Banias, and Hasbani. Only the Dan is within undisputed Israel; the Hasbani flows from Lebanon and the Banias from territory captured from Syria in the Six-Day War.\nThe Sea of Galilee (also called the Kinneret) is Israel's largest and most important freshwater lake, located in the northeast of the country. The pear-shaped lake is long from north to south, with a maximum width of in the north, covering . The Kinneret lies below sea level and reaches depths of . In a previous geological epoch the lake was part of a large inland sea which extended from the Hula marshes in northern Israel to south of the Dead Sea. The bed of the lake forms part of the Jordan Rift Valley.\n\nSouth of the Kinneret lies the saltwater Dead Sea which forms the border between Israel and Jordan and is below sea level, making it the lowest water surface on Earth. The Dead Sea is long with a maximum width of and also makes up part of the Rift Valley. A peninsula juts out into the lake from the eastern shore, south of which the lake is shallow, less than deep. To the north is the lake's greatest depth.\n\nThere are no navigable, artificial waterways in Israel, although the National Water Carrier, a conduit for drinking water, might be classified as such. The idea of a channel connecting the Mediterranean and Dead Seas or the Red and Dead Seas has been discussed.\n\nThe following are selected elevations of notable locations, from highest to lowest:\n\nIsrael has a Mediterranean climate with long, hot, rainless summers and relatively short, cool, rainy winters (Köppen climate classification \"Csa\"). The climate is as such due to Israel's location between the subtropical aridity of the Sahara and the Arabian deserts, and the subtropical humidity of the Levant and Eastern Mediterranean. The climate conditions are highly variable within the state and modified locally by altitude, latitude, and the proximity to the Mediterranean.\n\nOn average, January is the coldest month with average temperatures ranging from , and July and August are the hottest months at , on average across the country. Summers are very humid along the Mediterranean coast but dry in the central highlands, the Rift Valley, and the Negev Desert. In Eilat, a desert city, summer daytime-temperatures are often the highest in the state, at times reaching . More than 70% of the average rainfall in Israel falls between November and March; June through September are usually rainless. Rainfall is unevenly distributed, significantly lower in the south of the country. In the extreme south, rainfall averages near annually; in the north, average annual rainfall exceeds . Rainfall varies from season to season and from year to year, particularly in the Negev Desert. Precipitation is often concentrated in violent storms, causing erosion and flash floods. In winter, precipitation often takes the form of snow at the higher elevations of the central highlands, including Jerusalem. Mount Hermon has seasonal snow which covers all three of its peaks in winter and spring. In rare occasions, snow gets to the northern mountain peaks and only in extremely rare occasions even to the coast. The areas of the country most cultivated are those receiving more than of rainfall annually, making approximately one-third of the country cultivable.\n\nThunderstorms and hail are common throughout the rainy season and waterspouts occasionally hit the Mediterranean coast, capable of causing only minor damage. However, supercell thunderstorms and a true F2 tornado hit the Western Galilee in April 2006, causing significant damage and 75 injuries.\n\nHeat waves are frequent. 2010 was the hottest year in the history of Israel with absolute record high in several places in August. The heat became stronger from August when temperatures were considerably above the average. October and November were also dry, and November was almost rainless when it was supposed to be rainy.\n\nUnlike much of the Middle East which is rich in lucrative crude oil, Israel has limited natural resources. These include copper, phosphates, bromide, potash, clay, sand, sulfur, asphalt, and manganese. Small amounts of natural gas and crude oil are present, often too little to merit commercial extraction. In 2009, significant reserves of natural gas were discovered at the Tamar 1 offshore drilling site, 90 kilometers west of Haifa. It is the largest natural gas reserve ever discovered in Israel.\n\nIsrael has a large number of environmental concerns ranging from natural hazards to man-made issues both resulting from ancient times to modern development. Natural hazards facing the country include sandstorms which sometimes occur during spring in the desert south, droughts which are usually concentrated in summer months, flash floods which create great danger in the deserts due to their lack of notice, and regular earthquakes, most of which are small, although there is a constant risk due to Israel's location along the Jordan Rift Valley. Current environmental concerns include the lack of arable land and natural fresh water resources. Whilst measures have been taken to irrigate and grow in the desert, the amount of water needed here poses issues. Desertification is also a risk possible on the desert fringe, whilst air pollution from industrial and vehicle emissions and groundwater pollution from industrial and domestic waste are also issues facing the country. Furthermore, the effects of the use of chemical fertilizers, and pesticides are issues facing the country.\nIsrael has signed many international environmental agreements and is party to:\n\nSigned but not ratified:\n\nIsrael's rural space includes several unique kinds of settlements, notably the moshav and the kibbutz. Originally these were collective and cooperative settlements respectively. Over time, the degree of cooperation in these settlements has decreased and in several of them the cooperative structure has been dismantled altogether. All rural settlements and many small towns (some of which are dubbed \"rurban settlements\") are incorporated in regional councils. Land use in Israel is 17% arable land, 4% permanent crops, and 79% other uses. As of 2003 were irrigated.\n\nThere are 242 Israeli settlements and civilian land use sites in the West Bank, 42 in the Golan Heights, and 29 in East Jerusalem.\n\nIsrael currently has no offshore islands within its territorial waters. However, the Israeli government plans to build artificial islands off the coast to house an airport, a seaport, a desalination plant, a power plant, and a military testing base, as an answer to Israel's lack of space.\n\nAs of 2013, the population of Israel is 8 million, 6,015,000 of them Jewish.\n\nFor statistical purposes, the country has three metropolitan areas; Gush Dan-Tel Aviv (population 3,150,000), Haifa (population 996,000), and Beersheba (population 531,600). Some argue that Jerusalem, Israel's largest city with a population of 763,600, and Nazareth, should also be classified as metropolitan areas. In total, Israel has 74 cities, 14 of which have populations of over 100,000. Other forms of local government in Israel are local councils of which there are 144 governing small municipalities generally over 2,000 in population, and regional councils of which there are 53, governing a group of small communities over a relatively large geographical area.\n\nIsrael's population is diverse demographically; 76% Jewish, 20% Arab, and 4% unaffiliated. In terms of religion, 76% are Jewish, 16% Muslim, 2% Christian, 2% Druze, and 4% are unclassified by choice. 8% of Israeli Jews are haredi; 9% are \"religious\", 12% \"religious-traditionalists\", 27% are \"non-religious traditionalists\", and 43% are \"secular\". Other small, but notable groups in Israel, include Circassians of whom there are approximately 3,000 living mostly in two northern villages, 2,500 Lebanese, and 5,000 Armenians predominantly in Jerusalem.\n\nIsrael is ranked 34th in the world in terms of population density with, as noted, a climate of long, hot, rainless summers and relatively short, cool, rainy winters. The Population Matters 2011 overshoot index ranked Israel as the third most dependent region in the World after Singapore and Kuwait.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19293", "title": "Geography of Morocco", "text": "Geography of Morocco\n\nMorocco spans from the Mediterranean Sea and Atlantic Ocean on the north and the west respectively, into large mountainous areas in the interior body, to the Sahara desert in the far south. Morocco is a Northern African country, located in the extreme north west of Africa on the doors of continental Europe. The strait of Gibraltar separates Spain off Morocco with a span of water. Morocco borders the North Atlantic Ocean to the west, and the west Mediterranean Sea to the north.\n\nThe terrain of Morocco is largely mountainous. The Atlas Mountains stretch from the central north to the south west. It expands to about and is the dorsal spine of the country. To the north of the Atlas Mountains, there are the Rif Mountains, a chain that makes part of the Sierra Nevada mountain range in Andalusia, Spain. The massive range expands to about from Tangier in the west to Nador eastward.\n\nIn the west of the country, along the Atlantic coast, the Moroccan Plateau stretches from Tangier to Lagouira , about long, and get inward to Saiss Plains near Fes and Tansift-Alhaouz near Marrakech. These vast plains promotes fertile agricultural lands and support 15% of the local economy.\n\nIn the extreme South-East of the country, the lands are arid, due to their proximity to the Sahara desert . Palm trees oasis are developed in many regions, notably in Figuig and Zagora.\n\nCoordinates:\nMap references:\nAfrica\n\nArea:\n<br>\"total:\"\n446,550 km² (excluding Western Sahara), 712,550 km² (Morocco and Western Sahara combined)\n<br>\"land:\"\n446,300 km² (or 712,200 km²)\n<br>\"water:\"\n250 km²\n\nArea – comparative:\nMorocco without Western Sahara is slightly larger than California; slightly larger than Newfoundland and Labrador; slightly more than half the size of New South Wales province of Australia; slightly less than twice the size of the United Kingdom\n\nMorocco and Western Sahara combined are slightly larger than Texas\n\nLand boundaries:\n<br>\"total:\"\n2,017.9 km\n<br>\"border countries:\"\nAlgeria 1 559 km, Free Zone (\"de facto\" border along the Moroccan Western Sahara Wall) 2200 km, Spain (Ceuta) 6.3 km, Spain (Melilla) 9.6 km\n\nCoastline:\n1835 km\n\n2945 km (including the coast of Western Sahara)\n\nMaritime claims:\n<br>\"Territorial sea:\"\n\n<br>\"Contiguous zone:\"\n\n<br>\"Exclusive economic zone:\"\n\n<br>\"Continental shelf:\"\n200-m depth or to the depth of exploitation\n\nMorocco's climate can be divided into two parts: The northwest and the southeast. \nIn the southeast, the climate is arid, and poorly populated. In the northwest the climate is temperate and akin to the climatic conditions that prevail in the Iberian Peninsula. 95% of Moroccan population lives in these regions.\n\nThe largely populated areas of the northwest of the country is predominantly Mediterranean, but since the country is heavily mountainous, continental and alpine influence is evident, as well as the oceanic influence along the Atlantic coastline. And finally, the semi-arid lands, that cover few regions in the northeast, the central south and the southwest.\n\nAlong the Mediterranean coast, the climate is typically Mediterranean and supports all types of typical Mediterranean vegetation. The summers are moderately hot and the winters are mild. Further away from the coast, into the Rif Mountain range, the climate starts to become more continental in character, with colder winters and hotter summers. At elevations above , the climate is alpine with warm summers and cold winters. Rainfall is much higher on the west side, than it is on the east side. The average annual precipitation is between , and respectively. Snow is abundant at higher elevations.\n\n\nAlong the Atlantic coast, the climate is Mediterranean with an oceanic influence. The imprint of the oceanic climate differs along the coastline from region to region. It is generally presented from Asilah to Essaouira. The summers are warm to moderately hot, and winters are cooler than in the Mediterranean coast. Further away from the coastal lands, into the Atlas Mountain range, the climate starts to become more continental in character, with colder winters and hotter summers. At elevations above , the climate is typically alpine, with warm summers and cold winters. Rainfall is generally high. The average annual precipitations is between on the north, but as you move southward, the average drops by about . Snow is abundant at higher elevations. There are two ski stations, one in the middle-Atlas Mischliffen, and the other in the High-Atlas Oukaïmeden.\n\n\nThe southern regions of the northwest are Semi-arid influenced. Rainfall is lower, and is between annually. Although temperature ranges generally do not change in comparison with the upper provinces, a slight increase in high averages is not to be dismissed. Largely due to the lower latitudes where they fall.\n\nTypical cities with such climate are Agadir and Marrakesh.\n\nThe disputed Western Sahara region features a hot desert climate, but temperatures are more moderate along the coast.\n\nTerrain:\nNorthern coast and interior are mountainous with large areas of bordering plateaus, intermontane valleys, and rich coastal plains\n\nGeography – note:\nStrategic location along Strait of Gibraltar\n\nElevation extremes:\n<br>\"Lowest point:\"\nSebkha Tah −55 m\n<br>\"Highest point:\"\nToubkal mountain 4,165 m\n\nLongest river: Draa River (1100 km)\n\nNatural resources:\nPhosphates, Iron ore, Manganese, Lead, Zinc, Fish, Salt\n\nLand use:\n<br>\"Arable land:\"\n17.5%\n<br>\"Permanent crops:\"\n2.9%\n<br>\"Permanent pastures:\"\n47.1%\n<br>\"Forests:\"\n11.5%\n<br>\"Other:\"\n21.61% (2011)\n\nIrrigated land:\n14,850 km² (2004)\n\nTotal renewable water resources:\n29 km (2011)\n\nNatural hazards:\nNorthern mountains geologically unstable and subject to earthquakes; periodic droughts.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLand degradation/desertification (soil erosion resulting from farming of marginal areas, overgrazing, destruction of vegetation); water supplies contaminated by raw sewage; siltation of reservoirs; oil pollution of coastal waters.\n\n\"Morocco is party to:\"\nBiodiversity, Climate Change, Climate Change-Kyoto Protocol, Desertification, Endangered Species, Hazardous Wastes, Law of the Sea, Marine Dumping, Ozone Layer Protection, Ship Pollution (MARPOL 73/78), Wetlands, Whaling\n<br>\"signed, but not ratified:\"\nEnvironmental Modification\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Morocco, the points that are farther north, south, east or west than any other location (excluding the disputed Western Sahara area).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58940522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58940522", "title": "Geology of Syria", "text": "Geology of Syria\n\nThe geology of Syria includes ancient metamorphic rocks from the Precambrian belonging to the Arabian Craton, as well as numerous marine sedimentary rocks and some erupted basalt up to recent times. \nThe oldest rocks in Syria are amphibolite, marble and amphibolite schist from the Precambrian which outcrop on the surface across much of the south. Carboniferous rocks from the Paleozoic appear in the north, in the vicinity of Hakem and El-Gharb. \n\nIn the Mesozoic, an ophiolite zone with serptenized peridotite, diabase, spilite, pillow lava, tuff, argillite and radiolarite formed in the north and is present in northern Latakia close to the Turkish border. \n\nMesozoic rocks tend to be more numerous in the region, such as Jurassic limestone, marl, anhydrite and gypsum common in the west. Basalt at the base marks the beginning of the Cretaceous, ascending into clay, limestone, sandstone and dolomite from the Turonian and Cenomanian. Campanian are marked by detrital limestone with flint interbeds and chalk, while chalky limestone and marl are characteristic of the Maastrichtian. \n\nAt the beginning of the Cenozoic, chalk, limestone, marl and clay deposition continued through the Paleocene and Eocene. The Oligocene brought a shift to sandstone and limestone. In the early Miocene, conglomerates became more common and quartz sands of continental origin appeared in the Palmyrides mountain belt. Some basalts erupted during the Helvetian. \n\nThe Tortonian has limestone, marl and conglomerate in the northwest and similar units plus clay, salt, and gypsum in the Al-Furat Basin. Basalt, tuff, breccia, limestone, clay, sandstone and conglomerate were common from the Pliocene, overlain by alluvial conglomerate, basalt and flood plain deposits from the Quaternary. \n"}
{"id": "53207983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53207983", "title": "Heritage gardens in Australia", "text": "Heritage gardens in Australia\n\nThis page combines data from a dozen written reference books about Australian heritage gardens, from 200 years of garden heritage. Private gardens have been excluded from the list.\n\nat Woolmers, Tasmania, and the National Rose Garden – Launceston Examiner.\n\n\nYou can help! \n\nAn Index of Heritage, Historic and Renowned Gardens in Australia numbers about 400 unique gardens. \n\nThese heritage gardens are noted as either, being publicly open to visitors, or (normally) more private, and open only at limited times, usually for a fee payable upon entry.\n\nMany more notable Australian gardens are available to visit than these listed here, usually through the Open Gardens schemes. The Index to Australian Open Gardens will be a Wikipedia page too (650 gardens).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4166219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4166219", "title": "Imagined geographies", "text": "Imagined geographies\n\nThe concept of imagined (also referred as imaginative) geographies originated from Edward Said, particularly his work on critique on Orientalism. In this context, \"imagined\" does not mean to be “false” or “made-up”, but rather is used synonymous with “perceived”. Imagined geographies refers to the perception of a space created through certain imagery, texts, and/or discourses. \n\nImagined geographies can be seen as a form of social constructionism on par with Benedict Anderson's concept of imagined communities. Edward Said's notion of Orientalism is tied to the tumultuous dynamics of contemporary history. Orientalism is often referred to as the West's patronizing perceptions and depictions of the East, but more specifically towards Islamic and Confucian states. Orientalism has also been labeled to as the cornerstone of postcolonial studies.\n\nDespite often being constructed on a national level, imagined geographies also occur domestically in nations and locally within regions, cities, etc.\n\nIn his book \"Orientalism\", Edward Said argued that Western culture had produced a view of the \"Orient\" based on a particular imagination, popularized through academic Oriental studies, travel writing, anthropology and a colonial view of the Orient. This imagination included painting the orient as feminine- however, Said's view on the gendered nature has been criticized by other scholars due to a limited exploration of the construct.\n\nAt a 1993 lecture located at York University, Toronto, Canada, Said stressed the role culture plays in Orientalism-based imperialism and colonialism. By differentiating and elevating a national culture over another a validating process of \"othering\" is undertaken. This process underlies imagined geographies such as orientalism as it creates a set of preconceived notions for self-serving purposes. In constructing itself as superior, the imperial force or colonizing agent is able to justify its actions as somehow necessary or beneficial to the \"other\".\n\nDespite the broad scope and affect of orientalism as an imagined geography, it and the underlying process of \"othering\" are discursive and thereby normalized within dominant, Western societies. It is in this sense that Orientalism may be reinforced in cultural texts such as art, film, literature, music, etc. where one-dimensional and often backwards constructions prevail. A prime source of cinematic examples is the documentary-film \"Reel Bad Arabs: How Hollywood Vilifies a People\". The film demonstrates the process of orientalism centric \"othering\" within Western films from the silent era to modern classics such as Disney's \"Aladdin\". Inferior, backwards, and culturally stagnate constructions of Oriental \"others\" become normalized in the minds of Western consumers of cultural texts; reinforcing racist or insensitive beliefs and assumptions.\n\nIn \"Orientalism\", Said says that Orientalism is an imagined geography because a) Europeans created one culture for the entirety of the 'Orient', and b) the 'Orient' was defined by text and not by the 'Orient'.\n\nSaid was heavily influenced by French philosopher Michel Foucault, and those who have developed the theory of imagined geographies have linked these together. Foucault states that power and knowledge are always intertwined. Said then developed an idea of a relationship between power and descriptions. Imagined geographies are thus seen as a tool of power, of a means of controlling and subordinating areas. Power is seen as being in the hands of those who have the right to objectify those that they are imagining. Imagined geographies were mostly based on myth and legend, often depicting monstrous \"others\". Edward Said elaborates that: “Europe is powerful and articulate; Asia is defeated and distant.\" \n\nFurther writers to have been heavily influenced by the concept of imagined geographies including Derek Gregory and Gearóid Ó Tuathail. Gregory argues that the War on Terror shows a continuation of the same imagined geographies that Said uncovered. He claims that the Islamic world is portrayed as uncivilized; it is labeled as backward and failing. This justifies, in the view of those imagining, the military intervention that has been seen in Afghanistan and Iraq. Edward Said mentions that when Islam appeared in Europe in the Middle Ages, the response was conservative and defensive. Ó' Tuathail has argued that geopolitical knowledges are forms of imagined geography. Using the example of Halford Mackinder's Heartland Theory, he has shown how the presentation of Eastern Europe/Western Russia as a key geopolitical region after World War I influenced actions such as the recreation of Poland and the Polish Corridor in the 1918 Treaty of Versailles.\n\nThis theory has also been used to critique several geographies created; both historically and contemporarily—an example is Maria Todorova's work \"Imagining the Balkans\". Samuel P. Huntington's \"Clash of Civilizations\" has also been criticized as showing a whole set of imagined geographies. Halford Mackinder's \"imperial gaze\" has also been argued to be an important imagined geography that emphasised the importance of the British Empire over colonial peoples, and asserted the view of the geographical \"expert\" with the \"God's eye view\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29871722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29871722", "title": "Index of Thailand-related articles O to S", "text": "Index of Thailand-related articles O to S\n\nThis is a list of articles related to Thailand, sorted by alphabetical order. It represents the majority of articles contained within the . For a list of key articles arranged by topic, see Outline of Thailand.\n\nThose interested in the subject can monitor changes to the pages listed here by clicking on the link in the sidebar.\n\n"}
{"id": "4427939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4427939", "title": "Inverness, Sweden", "text": "Inverness, Sweden\n\nInverness () is a community located in upper-middle-class suburb Stocksund in Danderyd Municipality in Metropolitan Stockholm, Sweden.\n"}
{"id": "50352173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50352173", "title": "John Downie Falconer", "text": "John Downie Falconer\n\nDr John Downie Falconer FRSE FGS FRGS (1876 – 1947) was a Scottish geologist and geographer linked to colonial Africa.\n\nHe was born in the village of Stow, south of Edinburgh, on 1 November 1876, the son of John Falconer and Sophia Downie. He attended Glasgow University graduating MA in 1897 and receiving a doctorate (DSc) in 1906.\n\nHe then went to Edinburgh to act as Prof James Geikie’s assistant, before accepting a role overseeing the official mineral survey of Nigeria in 1904. In 1911 he returned to his alma mater to lecture in Geography. In 1907 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. His proposers were James Geikie, John Horne, Ben Peach and Ramsay Heatley Traquair.\n\nDuring the First World War he was requested by the Colonial Office to act as Assistant District Commissioner for Nigeria, a relatively high-level responsibility. In 1918 he stayed in Nigeria as Director of the Geological Survey of Nigeria, leaving in 1927 on completion of this large task. He subsequently became official Geologist to the Republic of Uruguay, 1928-1934.\n\nHis address in later life was 43 Fordhook Avenue in Ealing, in west London.\nHe died in Hounslow in west London on 16 April 1947.\n\nHe married twice: in 1908 to Edith Burman (d.1934); and in 1941 to Catherine Elizabeth Hughes (d.1947), a Canadian. He had one son, John Geikie Falconer, and two daughters by his first wife. His daughter Dora Janet Burman Falconer (1911-2010) became a surgeon and served as a rare female doctor in the Royal Army Medical Corps during the Second World War in East Africa rising to Lt Colonel. She married Dr Richard Savage and worked with him in Nigeria.\n\n"}
{"id": "23797849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23797849", "title": "Laminar sublayer", "text": "Laminar sublayer\n\nThe laminar sublayer, also called the viscous sublayer, is the region of a mainly-turbulent flow that is near a no-slip boundary and in which the flow is laminar. As such, it is a type of boundary layer. The existence of the laminar sublayer can be understood in that the flow velocity decreases towards the no-slip boundary. Because of this, the Reynolds number decreases until at some point the flow crosses the threshold from turbulent to laminar.\n\nThe laminar sublayer is important for river-bed ecology: below the laminar-turbulent interface, the flow is stratified, but above it, it rapidly becomes well-mixed. This threshold can be important in providing homes and feeding grounds for benthic organisms.\n\nWhether the roughness due to the bed sediment or other factors are smaller or larger than this sublayer has an important bearing in hydraulics and sediment transport. Flow is defined as hydraulically rough if the roughness elements are larger than the laminar sublayer (thereby perturbing the flow), and as hydraulically smooth if they are smaller than the laminar sublayer (and therefore ignorable by the main body of the flow).\n"}
{"id": "37566283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37566283", "title": "List of Abunas of Eritrea", "text": "List of Abunas of Eritrea\n\nThe Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Church is part of the Oriental Orthodox communion, and it was granted autocephaly by Shenouda III, Pope of the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria, in 1994 — a year after Eritrea gained its independence from Ethiopia. Shenouda III ordained five Eritrean high-ranking clergy as Bishops of the Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Church on 19 June 1994 in Saint Mark's Coptic Orthodox Cathedral in Cairo. This would allow the formation of a local Holy Synod for Eritrea. Shenouda III also agreed that a newly elected Patriarch would be able to consecrate on his own new bishops and metropolitans for the Eritrean Church. The Patriarch of Eritrea also carries the title of Abuna in line with the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church.\n\nAfter declaration of autocephaly of the church in 1994, the position of Patriarch of Eritrea remained vacant until 1999 when Abune Phillipos became the first Patriarch of the Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "39488286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39488286", "title": "List of African cuisines", "text": "List of African cuisines\n\nThis is a list of African cuisines. A cuisine is a characteristic style of cooking practices and traditions, often associated with a specific culture. The various cuisines of Africa use a combination of locally available fruits, cereal grains and vegetables, as well as milk and meat products. In some parts of the continent, the traditional diet features a preponderance of milk, curd and whey products. The continent's diverse demographic makeup is reflected in the many different eating and drinking habits, dishes, and preparation techniques of its manifold populations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56997673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56997673", "title": "List of California women architects", "text": "List of California women architects\n\nNorthern California includes San Jose, San Francisco, Oakland, Sacramento, and Metropolitan Fresno.\n\nSouthern California can include the counties of Imperial, Kern, Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino, San Diego, San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, and Ventura.\n"}
{"id": "15422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15422", "title": "List of Internet top-level domains", "text": "List of Internet top-level domains\n\nThis list of Internet top-level domain (TLD) extensions contains top-level domains, which are those domains in the DNS root zone of the Domain Name System of the Internet. The official list of all top-level domains is maintained by the Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) at the Root Zone Database. IANA also oversees the approval process for new proposed top-level domains. , the root domain contains 1543 top-level domains, while a few have been retired and are no longer functional.\n\nIANA distinguishes the following groups of top-level domains:\n\n\nSeven generic top-level domains were created early in the development of the Internet, and predate the creation of ICANN in 1998.\nInfrastructure top-level domain\n\nAs of May 20, 2017, there were 255 Country code top-level domains. (For comparison, at the same time the United Nations comprised 193 countries.)\n\nSource:\n\n\nAll of these TLDs are internationalized domain names (IDN) and support second-level IDNs.\n\n\n\nICANN/IANA has created some Special-Use domain names which are meant for special technical purposes. ICANN/IANA owns all of the Special-Use domain names.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2866139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2866139", "title": "List of airports by ICAO code: K", "text": "List of airports by ICAO code: K\n\nThe prefix K is generally reserved for the contiguous United States. The ICAO codes for these airports are usually the FAA location identifier prefixed with a K. IATA codes are listed where applicable. Cities shown are those associated with the airport as per the FAA, this may not always be the exact location as airports are often located in smaller towns outside the cities they serve.\n\nFormat of entries is:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"(METAR weather station sites operated by the U.S. Department of Defense)\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40522512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40522512", "title": "List of flora at Toro Negro State Forest", "text": "List of flora at Toro Negro State Forest\n\nThe following are flora species present at Toro Negro State Forest in Ponce, Puerto Rico.\n"}
{"id": "21136906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21136906", "title": "List of places named Peoria", "text": "List of places named Peoria\n\nThis is a list of places named Peoria, which includes geographic name features such as populated places, geographical features, and post offices — including combined forms of the name, such as West Peoria, Illinois, and variations of the name, such as Paola, Kansas.\n\nThe original Peoria is found in Illinois. The largest Peoria (since 2010) is found in Arizona. Several places named Peoria are now just ghost towns found on old maps.\n\nThe original Peoria (there are Indians still living who claim Peoria blood) were one of the principal tribes of the once-strong Illinois Confederation and had a language of the Algonquian family. The Algonquian nation had its ancient home north of the Great Lakes, whence the Peoria probably split off and drifted down the Mississippi Valley. Most places named Peoria derive — or probably derive — from the Peoria tribe of Indians. A few may owe their existence to settlers from Peoria, Illinois.\n\nAlberta\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\nArizona\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\nStreets\n\n\nEducation districts and facilities\n\n\nArkansas\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\nCalifornia\n\nGeographical features\n\n\nOther classes of features\n\n\nColorado\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\nStreets\n\n\nFlorida\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\nGeographical features\n\n\nIllinois\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\nCivil features\n\n\nGeographical features\n\n\nStreets\n\n\nIndiana\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\nIowa\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\nPopulated places and locales — variant spellings\n\n\nKansas\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\nPopulated places and locales — variant spellings\n\n\nCivil features\n\n\nKentucky\n\nPopulated places and locales — variant spellings\n\n\nMinnesota\n\n\nMississippi\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\nMissouri\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\nGeographical features\n\n\nNebraska\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\nCivil features\n\n\nPopulated places and locales — variant spellings\n\n\nNew Mexico\n\nOther classes of features\n\n\nNew York\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\nNorth Carolina\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\nStreets\n\n\nOhio\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\nStreets\n\n\nOklahoma\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\nCivil features\n\n\nStreets\n\n\nOregon\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\nSouth Dakota\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\nCivil features\n\n\nGeographical features\n\n\nTexas\n\nPopulated places and locales\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34044771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34044771", "title": "List of public art in Rosenborg Castle Gardens", "text": "List of public art in Rosenborg Castle Gardens\n\nThis is a list of public art in Rosenborg Castle Gardens in Copenhagen, Denmark.\n\n"}
{"id": "609691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=609691", "title": "List of rivers by continent", "text": "List of rivers by continent\n\nThis is a list of rivers by continent\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2753882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2753882", "title": "List of rivers of the United States Virgin Islands", "text": "List of rivers of the United States Virgin Islands\n\nList of rivers and streams in the United States Virgin Islands (U.S. territory), grouped by island.\n\n\nFrom East to West, all flowing to the South coast:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15412159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15412159", "title": "List of supermarket chains in North America", "text": "List of supermarket chains in North America\n\nThis is a list of supermarket chains in North America.\n\n"}
{"id": "7119914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7119914", "title": "List of volcanoes in Ascension Island", "text": "List of volcanoes in Ascension Island\n\nThis is a list of active and extinct volcanoes on Ascension Island. \n"}
{"id": "46613872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46613872", "title": "List of years in East Timor", "text": "List of years in East Timor\n\nThis is a list of years in East Timor. See also the timeline of East Timorese history. \n"}
{"id": "18230756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18230756", "title": "Mount Tenakourou", "text": "Mount Tenakourou\n\nMount Tenakourou is the highest point in Burkina Faso. It is a hill located on the border of the Cascades Region of Burkina Faso and the Sikasso Region of the country of Mali. Tenakourou has an elevation of .\n"}
{"id": "7693731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7693731", "title": "NavPix", "text": "NavPix\n\nNavPix is the proprietary name applied by Navman to its technology that combines an image with geographical data.\n\nThe \"NavPix\" name is used for both the software and the geo-referenced image that results from that software.\n\nThe NavPix technology enables users to take a JPEG image using the integrated digital camera on the N Series (\"N\" for NavPix), iCN 720 or iCN 750 portable Navman GPS navigation devices.\n\nThe Navman's GPS (Global Positioning System) receiver determines the latitude and longitude of where that image was taken. That information is then written into the image's Exif (Exchangeable image file format) meta data by the NavPix software. The NavPix, therefore, effectively provides a Georeference of the location where the image was taken, which is not necessarily the same georeference as the object being \"NavPix-ed\".\n\nThe NavPix image can then be used to define a destination or point of interest on compatible Navman devices.\n\nFurthermore, as the geographical information is written to the meta data, the image itself can be shared between compatible devices or uploaded to Navman's NavPix Library which offers a wide range of NavPix images that have been taken by both Navman users and sourced from professional photo providers, including Lonely Planet.\n\nThe NavPix Library also enables people to upload non-NavPix images (including other formats such as GIF) and convert them to NavPix images by using entering either the latitude and longitude they want to associate with the image or by entering the address and using the Library's software to generate the latitude and longitude values based on a Postal code look-up.\n\nUnlike some geo-referencing applications, the NavPix Library writes the georeference values to the image itself via the Exif meta data.\n\nThe photo taking abilities do not help navigation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16278537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16278537", "title": "Outline of the Central African Republic", "text": "Outline of the Central African Republic\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the Central African Republic:\n\nCentral African Republic – landlocked sovereign country located in Central Africa. The CAR borders Chad in the north, South Sudan in the east, Sudan in the north-east, the Republic of the Congo and the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the south, and Cameroon in the west. The Central African Republic Bush War began in 2004 and, despite a peace treaty in 2007 and another in 2011, fighting broke out between government, Muslim, and Christian factions in December 2012, leading to ethnic and religious cleansing and massive population displacement in 2013 and 2014. It is one of the poorest countries in the world.\n\n\nGeography of the Central African Republic\n\n\n\nRegions of the Central African Republic\n\nList of ecoregions in the Central African Republic\n\nAdministrative divisions of the Central African Republic\n\nPrefectures of the Central African Republic\n\nSub-prefectures of the Central African Republic\n\n\nDemographics of the Central African Republic\n\nPolitics of the Central African Republic\n\nGovernment of the Central African Republic\n\n\n\nCourt system of the Central African Republic\n\nForeign relations of the Central African Republic\n\nThe Central African Republic is a member of:\n\nLaw of the Central African Republic\n\nMilitary of the Central African Republic\n\nLocal government in the Central African Republic\n\nHistory of the Central African Republic\n\nCulture of the Central African Republic\n\n\nSports in the Central African Republic\n\nEconomy of the Central African Republic\n\nEducation in the Central African Republic\n\nCentral African Republic\n"}
{"id": "41121058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41121058", "title": "Place attachment", "text": "Place attachment\n\nPlace attachment is the emotional bond between person and place, and is a main concept in environmental psychology. It is highly influenced by an individual and his or her personal experiences. There is a considerable amount of research dedicated to defining what makes a place \"meaningful\" enough for place attachment to occur. Schroeder (1991) notably discussed the difference between \"meaning\" and \"preference,\" defining meaning as \"the thoughts, feelings, memories and interpretations evoked by a landscape\" and preference as \"the degree of liking for one landscape compared to another.\"\n\nPlace attachment is multi-dimensional and cannot be explained simply through a cause and effect relationship. Instead, it depends on a reciprocal relationship between behavior and experiences. Due to numerous varying opinions on the definition and components of place attachment, organizational models have been scarce until recent years. A noteworthy conceptual framework is the Tripartite Model, developed by Scannell and Gifford (2010), which defines the variables of place attachment as the three P’s: Person, Process, and Place.\n\nLittle is known about the neurological changes that make place attachment possible because of the exaggerated focus on social aspects by environmental psychologists, the difficulties in measuring place attachment over time, and the heavy influence of individualistic experiences and emotions on the degree of attachment.\n\nThe Person dimension addresses the question of, \"who is attached?\"\n\nWhen examined individually, places often gain meaning because of personal experiences, life milestones, and occurrences of personal growth. With communities, however, places derive religious, historical, or other cultural meanings. Community behaviors contribute not only to place attachment experienced by citizens of that community as a group, but also to those citizens individually. For example, desires to preserve ecological or architectural characteristics of a place have a direct impact on the strength of place attachment felt by individuals, notably through self-pride and self-esteem. People experience stronger attachments to places that they can identify with or otherwise feel proud to be a part of.\n\nThe process dimension answers the question “How does the attachment exist?” Similar to other concepts in social psychology, this dimension relies on the collective effects of affective, cognitive, and behavioral aspects.\n\nThe most common emotions associated with people-place bonding are positive, such as happiness and love. Yi-Fu Tuan, a noteworthy human geographer and pioneer in place attachment research, coined the term topophilia to describe the love that people feel for particular places. Negative emotions and experiences are also capable of giving places significance; however, negative emotions are usually not associated with people-place bonding since place attachment represents individuals’ yearnings to replicate positive experiences and emotions.\n\nCognition incorporates the knowledge, memories, and meanings that individuals or groups have associated with places of attachment. Specifically, these cognitive elements represent what makes specific places important enough for people-place bonding to develop. Environmental psychologists additionally use the term schema to describe how people organize their beliefs and knowledge in regards to places and has led some researchers to note familiarity as a central cognitive element in place attachment. This idea of familiarity has been used in explaining why people mark themselves as “city people” or why they develop preferences for certain types of homes. Researchers have coined a number of terms based on familiarity, including “settlement identity” and “generic place dependence.”\n\nBehavior is the physical manifestation of place attachment and can represent the cognitive and affective elements that an individual possesses in their person-place bonds. Proximity-maintaining behaviors have been noted as common behaviors among people who have attachment of place, similar to those who have interpersonal attachments. Many individuals unknowingly experience the effects of place attachment through homesickness and will carry out proximity-maintaining behaviors to satisfy their desires to relieve it by returning home or reinventing their current environments to match the characteristics of home. This reinvention of current environments has been coined as reconstruction of place and is a notable place attachment behavior. Reconstruction of place often occurs when communities are rebuilding after natural disasters or war. As counterintuitive as it may seem, trips and even pilgrimages away from places can enhance a person-place bond because individuals grow an increased appreciation for the places they have left behind, contributing to feelings of nostalgia that often accompany attachment and the memories that places evoke.\n\nThe Place dimension addresses the question of, “what is attached?” and can be applied to any geographic type. Many researchers stress that place attachment relies on both physical and social aspects.\n\nThere is debate among environmental psychologists that place attachment occurs due to the social relationships that exist within the realm of an individual's significant place rather than the physical characteristics of the place itself. Hidalgo and Hernández (2001) studied levels of attachment based on different dimensions and found that while social aspects were stronger than physical ones, both affected the overall person-place bond.\n\nNatural and built environments can both be subjects of person-place bonds. The resources that these environments provide are the most tangible aspects that can induce attachment. These resources can lead to the development of place dependence. Place dependence negatively correlates with environmental press, which can be defined as the demands and stresses that an environment puts on people physically, interpersonally, or socially. Conversely, intangible aspects of environments can also promote attachment. In particular, the characteristics and symbolic representations that an individual associates with his or her perceptions of self are pivotal in the person-place bond.\n\nThere is very little research dedicated to the underlying developmental and neurological processes for place attachment, which is a major criticism of the field. Suggested developmental theories include the mere-exposure effect and the security-exploration cycle. Environmental psychologists have recognized parallels between the attachment theory and the development of place attachment, but the attachment theory at times fails to recognize place as a playing piece and instead classifies it as a background for attachment relationships.\n\nThe security-exploration cycle indicates that a place can become the target of attachment when it incorporates both security and exploration. For example, the home, a popular object of attachment, typically possesses a safe or familiar indoor environment and an outdoor space that satisfies desires to explore and expand knowledge. This example is capitalized upon by Morgan (2010), who proposed a combination of human attachment and place attachment in a model called the Exploration-Assertion Motivational System, which suggests that the strongest attachments originate during childhood. The model states that place attachment forms due to a cycle of repeated arousals and behaviors that are linked to both places and attachment figures. As a result of this balance between exploration and attachment behavior, children receive positive reinforcements in the forms of connectedness and a sense of adventure and mastery.\n\nDespite the absence of a well-established developmental theory and understanding of the neurological changes that accompany place attachment, most researchers agree that some form of place attachment occurs for each person at some point in his or her lifetime, with childhood homes being the most prevalent object of attachment.\n\nThere is a desire among researchers to create a list of concrete variables that account for differing extents of place attachment among individuals. It is believed that increased length of residence in a location increases the attachment a person has to that location. Place attachment tends to develop fast in early years of life and in a short time of residence, it helps that a person visits constantly the same place and no others, making, place attachment and place identity settle and grow. Over extended periods of time, place identity can develop. Place identity is defined as an individual's perception of self as a member of a particular environment. \nOther proposed positively correlated variables are ownership (i.e. of home, land) and social interactions. Some inversely related variables that have been suggested are building size and age.\n\nThis construct is usually mistaken with place attachment, even if they develop from different causes. Place attachment develops from positive experiences and the satisfactory relationship between a person and a place, while place identity comes from beliefs, meanings, emotions, ideas and attitudes assigned to a place. \n\nDefined as a functional relationship based on the conditions provided for a place in order to satisfy the needs of a person or accomplish a specific goal. Also depends on how is evaluated in other places, answering the question, \"What can I do in this place that I can't do in other places?\". Functional attachment depends on certain characteristics related to the place, as how much this area is compatible with a person, as they can carry out their activities and goals, this type of attachment is common in those who practice green exercise. This kind of attachment grows exponentially in relation to the number of visits. \n\nThe benefits related to place attachment include the ability to build memories as the person is capable to connect with his ancestors past, the feeling of belonging to a place, the personal growth as it provides the opportunity to experience positive emotions as a result from a healthy relationship with the place, so the person can feel security and freedom. \n\nPsychometric and Likert scales are the most commonly used quantitative methods for different dimensions of place attachment, such as belongingness and identity. Meanings of places are often quantitatively studied by asking participants to score a set list of places on the basis of 12 categories: aesthetic, heritage, family connection, recreation, therapeutic, biological diversity, wilderness, home, intrinsic, spiritual, economic, life-sustaining, learning, and future. Another example of quantitative measurements are frequency counts with word associations.\nQualitative research has been conducted with the intention to gain insight into meanings that places possess. Some of the techniques used for qualitative research are free association tasks, in-depth interviews, and verbal reports from focus groups.\n\nMemories combine sensations and perceptions to create images that can be used to retain and recall information or past experiences. Over time, memories collectively allow an individual to develop feelings of familiarity that comprise a sense of place. When an interactive experience with three-dimensional space does not match these developed expectations, an individual adapts his or her understanding of place through learning and sensory input. For this reason, places are frequently associated with memories that can evoke physical senses.\n\nThe plasticity of memories means that place identities are subject to change. Memories of places and individual preferences for specific places both change over time. Adults tend to focus on the emotions, meanings, and contextual implications of feelings in association with places. Children, however, focus on physical aspects of environments and what can be performed in various environments, which can be seen in the popularity of “pretend” and imagination games among children. Consequently, childhood memories of places are typically oriented around heavily emotional, intense, or euphoric events.\n\nA healthy emotional relationship between a city or neighborhood and its inhabitants maintains the culture and positive attitudes despite any detrimental events that may be occurring in that city or neighborhood (i.e. people having an increased sense of security even if they live in a war zone). When forced relocation occurs, refugees experience a grieving process similar to when loved ones are lost. Through reconstruction of place, the familiarity of an attachment to places lost can be mimicked to relieve stress and grief.\n\nAn understanding of the psychological factors responsible for place attachment is important for the effective development of place loyalty that allows cities and towns to flourish. Additionally, successful places address the needs or maintain the cultural integrities and meanings that communities have placed upon them. More specifically, additions of buildings or monuments and creation of outdoor recreational spaces must be well-aligned with a community’s place attachment to prevent backlash from inhabitants that do not agree with the intended land developments.\n\nEnvironmental press is often considered with elderly populations transitioning into assisted living or senior communities. Improving the overall community psychology and sense of community can allow place attachment to develop for both individuals and groups. Developing new place attachment is usually more difficult with increased age, and as a result, recently transitioned senior adults and senior communities are popular subjects for research in order to test the efficacy of various community-building techniques, such as celebrations and neighborhood political organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "58706018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58706018", "title": "Pravda Coast", "text": "Pravda Coast\n\nPravda Coast () is a coast of the Davis Sea in the Eastern Antarctica. It is situated between 88° and 100° E. Pravda Coast was described in 1956 by Soviet Antarctic Expedition. The coast was named in honor of the newspaper Pravda. Also there is a Russian polar Mirny Station here. An edge of the mainland ice sheet, the Pravda Coast becomes the West Ice Shelf in the west and the Shackleton Ice Shelf in the east. It rises abruptly to the south, and 100 km from the coast reaches an elevation of more than 1.5 km; the ice is 1,000 m thick. Bedrock is rare and insignificant in area. \n\n"}
{"id": "74478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=74478", "title": "Prefecture", "text": "Prefecture\n\nA prefecture (from the Latin \"Praefectura\") is an administrative jurisdiction or subdivision in any of various countries and within some international church structures, and in antiquity a Roman district governed by an appointed prefect.\n\n\"Prefecture\" most commonly refers to a self-governing body or area since the tetrarchy when Emperor Diocletian divided the Roman Empire into four districts (each divided into dioceses), grouped under \"a Vicarius\" (a number of Roman provinces, listed under that article), although he maintained two pretorian prefectures as an administrative level above the also surviving dioceses (a few of which were split).\n\nAs canon law is strongly inspired by Roman law, it is not surprising that the Catholic Church has several offices under a prefect. That term occurs also in otherwise styled offices, such as the head of a congregation or department of the Roman Curia. Various ecclesiastical areas, too small for a diocese, are termed prefects.\n\nIn Brazil, the prefecture (\"prefeitura\" or \"prefeitura municipal\" in Portuguese) is the executive branch of the government of each Brazilian municipality (\"município\" in Portuguese). The term also refers to the office of the mayor (\"prefeito\" in Portuguese).\n\nThe Central African Republic is divided into sixteen prefectures.\n\nFrom 1836 until 2011, modern Greece was divided into (, singular , ) which formed the country's main administrative units. These are most commonly translated into English as \"prefectures\" or \"counties\".\n\nEach was headed by a prefect (, ), who was a ministerial appointee until ca. 1990, but was then elected by direct popular vote in a process of decentralization that saw the prefectures become local government units. Municipal elections in Greece are held every four years and voting for the election of prefects and mayors was carried out concurrently but with separate ballots.\n\nThe 2010 Kallikratis plan, which took effect on 1 January 2011, abolished the prefectures as separate administrative units, and transformed them into regional units within the country's thirteen administrative regions.\n\n\nWhen used in the context of Chinese history, especially China before the Tang Dynasty, the word \"prefecture\" is used to translate \"xian\" (). This unit of administration is translated as \"county\" when used in a contemporary context, because of the increase of the number of \"xian\" and the decrease of their sizes over time in the Chinese history. \n\n\nIn the context of Chinese history during or after the Tang Dynasty, the word \"prefecture\" is used to translate \"zhou\" (Wade–Giles \"chou\" (), another ancient unit of administration in China, equivalent to the modern \"province\".\n\nIn modern-day China, the prefecture (; pinyin: ) is an administrative division found in the second level of the administrative hierarchy. In addition to prefectures, this level also includes autonomous prefectures, leagues, and prefecture-level cities. The prefecture level comes under the province level, and in turn oversees the county level.\n\nIn Italy a \"prefettura\" is the office of prefetto; like in France she or he is the representative of the Government in each provincia.\n\nIn France, a \"préfecture\" is the capital city of a \"département\". As there are 101 départements in France, there are 101 \"préfectures\" in France. A \"préfecture de région\" is the capital city of a \"région\". This is the city where the préfet - the appointed government representative - resides.\n\nIn English, \"prefecture\" is used as the translation for , which are the main subdivisions of Japan. They consist of 43 prefectures (県 ken) proper, two urban prefectures (府 fu, Osaka and Kyoto), one \"circuit\" or \"territory\" (道 dō, Hokkaido) and one \"metropolis\" (都 to, Tokyo).\n\nUntil 1894 (; ) was the lowest level administrative division in Korea and can be translated into \"Petty Prefecture\" in the modern sense. It was below (, ; \"county\") in the administrative hierarchy.\n\nIn 1895, and divisions were abolished. From 1910 to 1949, the term \"prefecture\" was used to translate (; ). Since 1949 neither nor have been used, and there has been no division in either the South Korean or North Korean administrative system which translates as \"prefecture\".\n\nMongolian prefectures (Aimags) were adopted during Qing Dynasty's rule. Today these are usually translated as \"provinces\".\n\nIn Morocco, the 75 second-level administrative subdivisions are 13 prefectures and 62 provinces. They are subdivisions of the 12 regions of Morocco. Each prefecture and province are subdivided in their turn into districts (\"cercles\", sing. \"cercle\"), municipalities (\"communes\", sing. \"commune\") or urban municipalities (\"communes urbaines\", sing. \"commune urbaine\"), and \"arrondissements\" in some metropolitan areas.\n\nTraditionally the prefecture as being the City Hall and the prefect as being the equivalent of a mayor and commissioner until recently; now the prefectures and prefect are analogous with the figure of Town Clerk.\n\n"}
{"id": "452786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=452786", "title": "Prefectures of Chad", "text": "Prefectures of Chad\n\nChad was divided into 14 prefectures from 1960, the year of independence, to 1999, when the country was divided in 28 departments:\n\nA further reorganisation in 2002 divided the country into the current 18 regions.\n\nNB : Alphabetic order\n"}
{"id": "9569030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9569030", "title": "Telephone numbers in Indonesia", "text": "Telephone numbers in Indonesia\n\nTelephone numbers in Indonesia have different systems for land lines and mobile phones: land lines use area codes, while mobile phones do not.\n\nFor land line area codes, the digit \"0\" is added in front when dialing domestic long distance from within Indonesia, but is always omitted when calling from abroad. Instead, callers would use the Indonesian country code +62, followed by the area code, without the \"0\". Domestic phone numbers in large cities have 8 digits, and in other areas 7 digits. Mobile phone numbers have a total of 10 or 11 digits for postpaid depending on the operator, whereas prepaid services get 11 to 12 digits determined by the operator.\n\nUntil October 1999, East Timor was included in the Indonesian telephone numbering plan, using the area codes 0390 (for Dili) and 0399 for (Baucau).\n\nTo make a phone call to Indonesia from abroad, the following formats are used:\n\nFor calls to landlines, callers dial +62, followed by the area code and subscriber's number, omitting the '0', hence a number in Jakarta would be dialled as +62 21 xxx xxxx. \nFor calls to mobile wireless phone (GSM) from abroad, callers dial +62, followed by the subscriber's number, omitting the '0', hence +62 895618472229\nOn business cards and other contact information, telephone numbers might be listed as \"HP\" or \"hunting\". \"HP\" is an abbreviation for \"hand phone\" or mobile phone and is pronounced \"hah péh\". Hand phones might also be referred to as \"pon-sel\" (short form of \"telepon seluler\") or \"telepon genggam\" (\"hold-in-the-hand telephone\"). Hunting refers to an office line in which multiple individual lines are connected so that an incoming call can roll over to another line if the first line is busy. This permits only one number to be published.\n\n0809 depending on telco charges\n\nInternational call operators:\nDomestic call operators: 100\nInternational phone number information: 102\nLocal phone number information: 108\n\nPhone number information in other area:\n\n\nTo make an International phone call from Indonesia you should use the following format:\n\n<IDD prefix> <country code> <area code> <phone number>\n\nNumbering for FWA CDMA follows the PSTN rules (area code)-XXXX-XXXX. Which X depends on empty slot of numbering plan, and may vary between cities. But mostly, for Jakarta (and some of other Big City);\n\n\nMatrix prefix:\n0814 \n0815 \n0816 \n0816 \n0855 \nMentari prefix:\n0816 \n0815 \n0858 50686551\nIM3 prefix:\n0856 \n0857\n\nCeria prefix:\n0827 \n0828 \n\nkartuHALO prefix:\n0811 \n0812 \nsimPATI prefix:\n0812 \n0813 \n0821 \nLOOP prefix:\n0822 \nkartu As prefix:\n0851\n0852 \n0853 \n0823\n\nXL Postpaid prefix:\n0817 \n0818 \n0819 \n0877 (XL Prioritas) \n0878 (XL Prioritas) \nXL Prepaid prefix:\n0817 \n0818 \n0819 \n0859 \n0877 \n0878 \nAXIS (acquired by XL) prefix:\n0831 \n0832 \n0833 \n0838\n\nSmarfren prefix\n0881 \n0882 \n0883 \n0884 \n0885 \n0886 \n0887 \n0888 \n0889 \n\n3 prefix:\n0895 \n08953 \n0896 \n0897 \n0898 \n0899 \n\n\nIn Indonesia, emergency numbers are mostly using 11x format\n\nTo call in Indonesia, the following format is used:\n\nxxx xxxx Calls within an area code\n+62\nyyy xxx xxxx Calls inside Indonesia in city centers\n\n+62 yyy xxxx xxxx Calls from outside Indonesia\n\n+62 8nn xxxx xxxx Calls to mobiles from outside Indonesia\n\nThese are area codes for the provinces of Jakarta, Banten, West Java, Yogyakarta, and Central Java.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese are area codes for the provinces of East Java, Bali, West Nusa Tenggara, and East Nusa Tenggara.\n\n\n\n\n\nThese are area codes for the provinces of West Sulawesi, South Sulawesi, Central Sulawesi, South East Sulawesi, North Sulawesi, and Gorontalo.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese are area codes for the provinces of West Kalimantan, Central Kalimantan, South Kalimantan, East Kalimantan, and North Kalimantan.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese are area codes for the Provinces of Aceh and North Sumatra.\n\n\n\nThese are area codes for the Provinces of West Sumatra, Riau, Riau Islands, Jambi, South Sumatra, Bengkulu, Bangka-Belitung, and Lampung.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese are area codes for the provinces of Maluku, North Maluku, West Papua, and Papua.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53303424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53303424", "title": "Thengar Char", "text": "Thengar Char\n\nThengar Char (), also known as Char Piya, is an island in Hatiya Upazila, Bangladesh. It is located in the Bay of Bengal, 37 miles from the coast.\n\nThe island was formed with Himalayan silt in 2006. It spans . It is under water from June to September annually because of the monsoon, and it has no flood fences. There are no roads on the island.\n\nIn June 2015, the Bangladeshi government suggested resettling Rohingya refugees on the island. The proposal was characterized by the United Nations Refugee Agency as \"logistically challenging\". On January 26, 2017, the Bangladeshi government ordered their resettlement nonetheless. Human Rights Watch called it \"a human rights and humanitarian disaster in the making\".\n"}
{"id": "479372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=479372", "title": "USS Seadragon (SSN-584)", "text": "USS Seadragon (SSN-584)\n\nUSS \"Seadragon\" (SSN-584), a , was the second ship of the United States Navy to be named for the seadragon, a small fish commonly called the dragonet. This ship was a nuclear-powered submarine.\n\nThe contract to build her was awarded to Portsmouth Naval Shipyard in Kittery, Maine on 29 September 1955 and her keel was laid down on 20 June 1956. She was launched on 16 August 1958 sponsored by Mrs. Robert L. Dennison, and commissioned on 5 December 1959, with Lieutenant Commander George P. Steele in command.\n\nFollowing a Caribbean shakedown cruise, \"Seadragon\" returned to Portsmouth, whence, on 1 August 1960, she sailed for the Pacific. Ordered to proceed via the Northwest Passage, she moved north to Parry Channel, at mid-month reached Lancaster Sound, the eastern end of the channel, and continued westward with Edward Parry's 1819 journal as a guide.\n\nCollecting oceanographic and hydrographic data en route, \"Seadragon\" transited the Barrow Strait, Viscount Melville Sound, and McClure Strait. On 21 August, she completed the first submarine transit of the Northwest Passage, entered the Beaufort Sea, and headed for the North Pole, which she reached on 25 August. The ship surfaced through the thin ice becoming the third submarine to surface at the pole. Members of the crew laid out a softball diamond with the pitcher's box at the pole where the captain claimed he hit a fly ball at 4:00 pm on Wednesday and it wasn't caught until 4:00 am on Thursday. From the pole, \"Seadragon\" (having no other choice) turned south, and after conducting experiments in cooperation with scientists on ice island T-3, headed for the Chukchi Sea and Bering Strait. On 5 September, she reached Nome, Alaska, and, nine days later, she arrived at her home port, Pearl Harbor. She was awarded the Navy Unit Commendation for her transit of the Northwest Passage via Parry Channel.\n\nFor the next nine months, \"Seadragon\" was employed in local operations. In June 1961, she headed west for her first tour in the western Pacific (WestPac), during which she participated in Seventh Fleet exercises – primarily antisubmarine warfare training exercises – and completed a submerged endurance cruise of 58 days. In October, she returned to Pearl Harbor and local operations.\n\nOn 12 July 1962, \"Seadragon\" departed Pearl Harbor for her second Arctic cruise. Transiting the Bering Strait and the Chukchi Sea, she contacted T-3, then moved further north to rendezvous with sister ship, , en route from New London, Connecticut. On 31 July, the two submarines rendezvoused under the ice and continued on to the North Pole, arriving on 2 August for sonar and weapons evaluations. The submarines were joined by the icebreaker . In late August, the submarines returned to their home ports. En route, \"Seadragon\", which was scheduled to port at Seattle, Washington, rescued 12 survivors from a downed seaplane and delivered them to Port Angeles, Washington. On 14 September, \"Seadragon\" arrived back at Pearl Harbor.\n\nDuring the first half of 1963, the Arctic veteran participated in local operations and conducted her second WestPac cruise. On 8 July, she entered the Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard for her first refueling and overhaul. In late May 1964, she resumed operations in the Hawaiian area. Torpedo evaluations off the Washington coast followed; and, on 10 August 1964, \"Seadragon\" sailed west in response to the Gulf of Tonkin crisis. During September and October, she operated out of Subic Bay; then, after a call at Hong Kong continued on to Okinawa and Japan to conduct public relations cruises and to participate in further Seventh Fleet exercises.\n\nOn 27 October 1964, USS \"Seadragon\" became the first nuclear powered vessel to visit Hong Kong. This was followed shortly by an historic entry into Japanese waters and a port visit to Sasebo, Japan, on 12 November 1964. The visit was protested by China and the Soviet Union; the Soviets in particular warned that the visit would eventually lead to the introduction of nuclear weapons to Japan and alter the security status quo in East Asia. On 4 March 1965, she returned to Pearl Harbor. Again, in the fall of 1966 and early 1967, SEADRAGON became the first SSN to visit Yokosuka, Japan. She was the first nuclear powered vessel the Japanese government permitted to enter her home waters. This achievement has since often been compared with Commodore PERRY's first expedition to Japan in 1853 as an achievement in international diplomacy. SEADRAGON again set the standard by being the first SSN to visit Hobart, Australia in January 1983. In twenty-four years of active service, SEADRAGON steamed over 200,000 miles, dove and surfaced 1800 times, made thirteen deployments to the Western Pacific, and conducted four under ice operations. SEADRAGON was awarded the Navy Unit Commendation and the Meritorious Unit Commendation. The ship was overhauled three times, refueling at each overhaul. Pearl Harbor Naval Shipyard was her home for all the overhauls and performed the inactivation commencing 1 October 1983. Puget Sound Naval Shipyard, which she visited on occasional trips to the North Polar region, performed the recycling.\n\nDecommissioned on 12 June 1984 and stricken from the Naval Vessel Register on 30 April 1986, ex-\"Seadragon\" entered the Navy's Nuclear-Powered Ship and Submarine Recycling Program on 1 October 1994. On 18 September 1995, \"Seadragon\" ceased to exist. It should be noted that \"Seadragon\" was decommissioned after only 24 and a half years of commissioned service - five and a half years less than the normal 30 year service life for U.S. Navy submarines.\n\nIn 2004, the former captain of the \"Seadragon\", Dan Summitt, wrote a book about the exploits of boat and its crew. Summitt describes how his boat was the first nuclear sub to patrol the eastern Soviet coast for SIGINT and the third to reach the North Pole.\n\nSeadragon: Northwest Under the Ice [The story of the nuclear Submarine Seadragon’s epic discovery of an underwater Northwest Passage], by Cmdr. George P. Steele, USN (1962)\n"}
{"id": "56825300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56825300", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of Niue", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of Niue\n\nNiue requires its residents to register their motor vehicles and display vehicle registration plates. Current plates are New Zealand standard 360 mm × 125 mm, smaller in height and width than Australian plates, and use New Zealand stamping dies, as zeroes now have a slash through them (e.g. 52Ø9).\n"}
{"id": "57803134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57803134", "title": "Vehicle registration plates of Tasmania", "text": "Vehicle registration plates of Tasmania\n\nTasmania requires its residents to register their motor vehicles and display vehicle registration plates. Current regular issue plates are Australian standard 372 mm × 134 mm, and use standard Australian stamping dies.\n\n\nBetween 1930 and 1954, Tasmanian plates were issued in the format 3 L0000, where the first numeral represented the year, and the letter the month of issue.\n\nIn 1954, the style was updated to the W-series plates that ran until 1970. The format and range was WAA·000 to WZZ·999, continuing with the month and year allocations, with the second letter representing the year, and the third letter the month. Originally, from 1954 to 1956, there was a year tab between the state identifier, for example \"19 TAS 54\" for 1954. This was replaced by a registration label after 1956, resulting in plate design modifications to omit the year between the state identifier.\n\nIn 1970, the W-series plates were replaced by the AA·0000 to FS 9999 series with blue lettering on a white background. From 1970 to 1976 these had the slogan \"TAS\" and from 1976 to 1998, \"Tasmania – Holiday Isle\". Between 1998 and 2004, the border colour switched to turquoise with the slogan \"Tasmania – Your Natural State\", with a coloured decal of the Tasmanian state logo in the background (a stylised thylacine prowling through reeds on a riverbank). The update started at DS 0000. In 2004, the series reverted to the original blue borders, while retaining the other 1998 revisions.\n\nOn 24 February 2008, the Tasmanian Government issued a new registration plate design in the format A 00 AA. After the first letter appears the Tasmanian state logo with the slogan \"Tasmania – Explore the possibilities\". Tasmanian plates are manufactured by LicenSys in Brisbane.\n\nIn September 2017, when the combination F 99 ZZ was reached the G 00 AA to G 99 ZZ was skipped and the next series recommenced from H 00 AA; the G-series is reserved for Tasmania government and late 2018 / early 2019 combinations went straight to H 99 ZZ to J 00 AA; the \"I\" series will be skipped to avoid confusion with 1.\n\nIn the illustration of older Tasmanian registration plates, the three plates on the left side from top to bottom are EN-1113 (1998–2004 issue), CO-7984 (1970–1998 issue), WYG-734 (1954 to 1970 issue, non-reflective). The plates on the right side are domestic or semi trailer as indicated by the second character \"T\". The red plate is a Tasmanian interstate plate, issued before the birth of the Federal Interstate Registration Scheme.\n\nSince 2007, personalised plates are offered only through the TasPlates scheme. A wider range of coloured, prestige and themed plates are available for a one-off fee. Prior to 2007, personalised plates were offered directly through the Department of Infrastructure, Energy and Resources in previous slogan formats and colour options.\n\nAAA-nnn, AAA-nn\nMotorcycles only AA-nnn\n\nTypes of plates offered are:\n\nClassic, Colour on black, Tech, Chic, US style, Caron Fibre styles are the same as offered in New South Wales but using different embossing dies.\n\nBling, graphic plates, fishing, AFL and Camouflage plates offered from 2007 was withdrawn from sale in 2017.\n\nGovernment plates: from 1970, these plates were in the GT-nnnn or GV-nnnn formats, but in the 1990s this was replaced by the G-nnnnn format. Both of these designs featured red lettering with blue or green numbers. With the introduction of the new standard design in 2008, the format G-00-AA is used. The lettering and numbering on the plates is green instead of the standard blue.\n\nTrailer plates: between 1970 and 2008, the format was AT-nnnn to ZT-nnnn, then it went back to issue IT-nnnn (previously allocated to interstate trucks prior to 1987) and QT-nnnn before concluding. This style was replaced in 2008 with the current format Z 00 AA or Y 00 AA.\n\nTasmania Fire Service vehicles use plates in the format TFS-000, with red lettering on a white background and the TFS logo in the centre.\n\nMembers of the Consular Corps Tasmania use plates with the letters CC followed by a colour depiction of the flag of the country they represent, followed by two numbers.\n\nStaff of the Commission for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources enjoy certain diplomatic status and are issued with plates with the letters IC, followed by one or two numbers.\n\nThe Governor of Tasmania official cars are registered and insured, but in keeping with viceregal tradition, they display the St Edward's Crown, rather than registration plates. If the Governor is being conveyed, his or her personal flag will also be flown on the car.\n\nVintage and classic cars may carry \"special interest\" plates, which are black letters on white, of the format SI·nnnA. Registered owners pay a lesser amount, on condition that the cars are not used as regular transport. Since the beginning of 2018, SI series has begun to use suffix letters after reaching SI-9999. Motorcycles use nnn·SI \n\nMetro Tasmania buses have the prefix \"MET\" on their registration plates, with the number thereafter being the fleet number of the bus. A typical registration plate for Metro bus number 43 would be MET·043.\n\nA-12-BC Format: A 00 IA - A 99 IZ, A 00 OA - A 99 OZ, B 00 IA - B 99 IZ, B 00 OA - B 99 OZ, up to F 00 IA - F 99 IZ, F 00 OA - F 99 OZ, H 00 IA - H 99 IZ, H 00 OA - H 99 OZ, G 00 DA - G 99 ZZ, Y 00 IA - Y 99 IZ, Z 00 IA - Z 99 IZ, Z 00 OA - Z 99 OZ.\n\n"}
{"id": "48477981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48477981", "title": "Wikishire", "text": "Wikishire\n\nWikishire is an on-line gazetteer of Great Britain, Ireland and associated territories. The site describes itself thus:\"Wikishire is where you are; whether you are on the Shetland islands or the South Shetland Islands or the places between, Wikishire is a growing guide on all you need to know about the British and Irish lands\". To accompany the gazetteer there is an interactive map of the British Isles based on OpenStreetMap.\n\nWikishire organises its articles on the basis of the historic counties and ridings of Britain and Ireland and insists that articles are written in British or Irish dialects of English.\n\nThe site was launched in July 2010 and as of contained over 20,000 articles.\n\n"}
{"id": "2298723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2298723", "title": "William Gordon East", "text": "William Gordon East\n\nWilliam Gordon East (also W. G. East; November 19, 1902 – January 27, 1998) was an English geographer and writer. He studied at Cambridge University. He taught at the London School of Economics and Political Science.\n\nHis work includes the following books:\n\n\nFor his essay on \"The Union of Moldavia and Wallachia, 1859: An Episode in Diplomatic History\", he was awarded the Thirlwall Prize for 1927.\n\n\n"}
