{"id": "4947810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4947810", "title": "Abalone Alliance", "text": "Abalone Alliance\n\nThe Abalone Alliance (1977–1985) was a nonviolent civil disobedience group formed to shut down the Pacific Gas and Electric Company's Diablo Canyon Power Plant near San Luis Obispo on the central California coast in the United States. They modeled their affinity group-based organizational structure after the Clamshell Alliance which was then protesting the Seabrook Nuclear Power Plant in coastal New Hampshire. The group of activists took the name \"Abalone Alliance\" referring to the tens of thousands of wild California Red Abalone that were killed in 1974 in Diablo Cove when the unit's plumbing had its first hot flush.\n\nThe Abalone Alliance staged blockades and occupations at the Diablo Canyon Power Plant site between 1977 and 1984. Nearly two thousand people were arrested during a two-week blockade in 1981, exceeding Seabrook as the largest number arrested at an anti-nuclear protest in the United States.\n\nThe Diablo Canyon controversy started in 1963 when PG&E scrapped its attempt to build the Bodega Bay Nuclear Power Plant at Bodega Head, 71 miles north of San Francisco. The Bodega struggle started in 1958, but was opposed by a group led by a University of California professor and young Sierra Club activist named David Pessonen. This was the first anti-nuclear power campaign in the US. The main reason that the facility wasn't built was due its location less than 1,000 feet from the fault zone that struck San Francisco in 1906.\n\nRather than face public opposition at Diablo Canyon, PG&E approached the Sierra Club's president and cut a deal with certain board members where Diablo would be chosen rather than the Nipomo Dunes area. The wife of the Sierra Club president, who worked out the deal, would then be elected to PG&E's board of directors. As part of the plan, the decision was made when Sierra Club board member Martin Litton was out of the country, the only member who knew of Diablo's history and importance. The board was flown down to see the site in Frank Sinatra's Lear Jet with Danny Kaye on board providing entertainment. Kaye would later become opposed to nuclear power.\n\nThe Sierra Club president forbade any chapter from opposing Diablo Canyon, so The San Luis Obispo Chapter formed the Shoreline Preservation Conference to oppose the construction on the grounds that the area had been proposed as a state park, was a sacred Chumash Indian site, had some of the largest oak trees on the West Coast, was located on the second-to-last coastal wilderness area in California, and could be sitting on the fault that lightly shook Santa Barbara in a 1927 earthquake. The internal dispute over Diablo Canyon was a primary reason for the split-up of the Sierra Club, that led to the formation of Friends of the Earth by David Brower.\n\nIn 1965, the Shoreline Preservation Conference demanded that regulators investigate the danger of faults near the proposed site, but was ignored. In 1972 a Los Angeles reporter discovered a report by Shell Oil Company geologists completed prior to construction of Diablo Canyon Power Plant of the existence of the Hosgri Fault 2½ miles offshore from the facility. As a result of the discovery, regulators forced PG&E to redesign and reinforce the facility.\n\nDuring the late 1970s, the Abalone Alliance organized protests in San Luis County and regularly picketed PG&E offices across the state. The Alliance published a newspaper, \"It's About Times\", which provided a forum for activist debate. Separate groups within the Abalone coalition \"developed their own foci and protest styles\".\n\nOn August 7, 1977, 1,500 people demonstrated at the gate of Diablo Canyon, resulting in 47 arrests. The next year, 5,000 people rallied and 487 were arrested. On September 10, 1981, the Abalone Alliance occupied the site, leading to 1,960 arrests. Nearly 30,000 people showed up in support. At the end of the ten-day action, a 25-year-old engineer discovered a mirror image reversal in the seismic blueprints. PG&E was forced spend $3 billion and three additional years of repairs before reopening. Anti-War Activists Daniel Ellsberg and Tom Hayden, activist stars like Ed Asner, Martin Sheen, Martin Landau, Blythe Danner, Patti Davis, Robin Williams, Lily Tomlin, Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher, Marsha Mason, John Belushi, Jane Fonda and Robert Blake and performers such as Jackson Browne, Bonnie Raitt, Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young, The Eagles, Linda Ronstadt, Peter Yarrow, Holly Near, Joan Baez, Dan Fogelberg, Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band, James Taylor, Carly Simon, Chaka Khan, The Doobie Brothers, Jesse Colin Young, Stevie Wonder, Gil Scott-Heron, Stevie Nicks, Tom Petty, Poco, Wavy Gravy, Warren Zevon and others joined the anti-nuclear concerts, protests and larger movement – which included a series of concerts at Madison Square Garden through Musicians United for Safe Energy, as well as 'Peace Sunday' at the Rose Bowl (with over 100,000 in attendance) and multiple 'Survival Sundays' held at the Hollywood Bowl both through the Alliance for Survival, a Los Angeles-based Abalone Alliance affiliate. A number of the high-profile participants were included in the arrests at Diablo and the mass jailings were described as a \"tornado of talent\". Jackson Browne defending his civil disobedience at a San Luis Obispo courthouse after his arrest for trespassing at the blockade (“I consider my actions to be patriotic”). In 1984, the Alliance organized the Peoples Emergency Response Plan, where affinity groups blockaded at the Diablo Gates over a four-month period.\n\nIn late 1981, Alliance activists primarily from Davis and Sonoma, along with local opposition held an eight-day sit-in at the State Capitol, encouraging then-Governor Jerry Brown to use emergency powers to shut down the Rancho Seco Nuclear Generating Station. The plant was closed by a public vote in 1989, a decade before its operating license was to expire. Other Alliance activists went on to form the Livermore Action Group, the Vandenberg Action Coalition, Environmental Defense Center, the Lenten Desert Experience at the Nevada Test Site and Musicians United for Safe Energy. At its peak, there were over 60 groups who were affiliated with the Alliance, including Greenpeace and Alliance for Survival. The group was hit with one of the first known SLAPP suits in U.S. history, where the Pacific Legal Foundation and San Luis Obispo County attempted to legally obtain the names of all members and supporters, demanding that they pay for the costs of the 1981 blockade. The suit lasted nearly five years, before being withdrawn just before going before the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nThe Mothers for Peace filed a legal challenge with the D.C. Circuit Court in an attempt to stop the operation of Diablo Canyon but was denied in November 1984. In January 1985, NRC Commissioner Asselstine leaked a copy of the NRC's secret transcripts to KRON-TV in San Francisco, documenting how the NRC had illegally licensed Diablo Canyon without properly reviewing evacuation plans as previously required. The Mothers then reopened their challenge based on the leaked NRC transcripts. Judge Robert Bork of the DC Court took the lead in denying the appeal April 25, 1986. Bork claimed that to look at the leaked transcripts would be judicial activism.\n\nThe Diablo Canyon reactors were originally estimated to cost just over $300 million when PG&E was first given permission to construct the facility. When finally opened in 1985, construction costs were $5.8 billion and financing costs nearly an additional $7 billion. After the 1981 blueprint mirror image mistake was discovered, the reactor's construction costs stood at $2.1 billion. PG&E permission to go ahead with operation was reversed by the NRC and the company was required to go through a major review and rebuild. PG&E was unable to find further financing from any source to continue construction, until president Ronald Reagan ordered the United States Environmental Protection Agency to give the company nearly $2.5 billion in loans.\n\nThe controversy did not come to a close until December 1988 when the California Public Utilities Commission gave PG&E a $54 billion 30-year, cost plus rate contract to operate Diablo Canyon Power Plant. It has been considered the most controversial nuclear power plant in U.S. history because of its location 2½ miles offshore from the Hosgri Fault.<nowiki></nowiki>]\n\n\nDark Circle, Dir. Chris Beaver, Ruth Landy and Judy Irving, 1982, won the Grand Prize at the Sundance Film Festival in 1983 as well as an Emmy Award for \"Outstanding Individual Achievement in News and Documentary\" in 1990.\n\nA Question of Power, Dir. David L. Brown, Prod. by David L. Brown, Tom Anderson and Jane Kinzler, 1986\n\nNo Nukes Dir. Daniel Goldberg, Anthony Potenza Prod. Julian Schlossberg, 1980\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33519043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33519043", "title": "American proletarian poetry movement", "text": "American proletarian poetry movement\n\nProletarian poetry is a political poetry movement that developed in the United States during the 1920s and 1930s that expresses the class-conscious perspectives of the working-class. Such poems are either explicitly Marxist or at least socialist, though they are often aesthetically disparate. As a literature that emphasized working-class voices, the poetic form of works range from those emulating African-American slave work songs to modernist poetry. Major poets of the movement include Langston Hughes, Kenneth Fearing, Edwin Rolfe, Horace Gregory, and Mike Gold.\n\nWhile mainly originating in the proletarian literary movement that arose out of the avantgardist post-revolutionary era of the Soviet Union, proletarian poetry also had many antecedents in the United States before it rose to prominence in the 1920s. Coal miners in Pennsylvania wrote and sang militant labor songs, a form the Industrial Workers of the World embraced throughout the years before World War I. Elements of proletarian literature and poetry could also be seen in the works of William Carlos Williams, Upton Sinclair, and Jack London. During the 1910s, the reporter and poet John Reed, along with other professional writers and leftists in the labor movement, also assisted in strikes and formed plans for workers' theaters.\n\nIn 1926, the leftist magazine \"The New Masses\" was established and quickly took the forefront in defining and promoting proletarian poetry. Members of their staff went on in 1929 to organize John Reed Clubs in numerous cities around the country. Marxist in their ideology, although not officially affiliated with the Communist Party, these clubs sought to develop the writing skills of white and blue-collar workers to publish proletarian poetry and literature. Other American communist organs publishing proletarian poetry and literature during the 1920s and 30s included Max Eastman's magazine \"The Liberator\", the Communist Party newspaper \"The Daily Worker\",\"The Anvil\" edited by Jack Conroy, \"Blast,\" and \"Partisan Review.\"\n\nLimited career opportunities of the 1930s during the Great Depression also contributed in bringing the movement to the forefront of American life. The disenfranchisement and unemployment caused by the economic depression was an influential inspiration for working class artists because it directly exhibited the grievances experienced by many working-class people, and revealed imbalances within the U.S. economy despite the financial success and richness of the 1920s. This realization of the imbalances of capitalism allowed for the growth of new leftist political and social discourses. Artists such as Langston Hughes, Edwin Rolfe, and Kenneth Fearing, in attempts to find solutions to the Great Depression, looked to socialism, communism, and anarchism, which resulted in these themes and ideas appearing in their literature and poetry. According to literary scholar Cary Nelson, \"[d]espite considerable suffering, the mid-1930s were thus a heady time on the Left. Much of the poetry of the period combines sharp social critique with a sense of revolutionary expectation. More than simply reflecting the times, however, the \"proletarian\" poetry of revolution sought to define a new politics, to suggest subject positions within it, and to help bring about the changes it evoked.\" \n\nKenneth Fearing's 'Dirge' is a mock-elegy printed in the working class magazine \"New Masses.\" According to critic Nathaniel Mills, Fearing examines the pitfalls of capitalism, describing a well-off executive committing suicide after financial failure. Fearing's proletarian style of \"sensory shock\" also allows readers to critically examine capitalism and its shortcomings.\n\nMany of the poets from the genre have recently surged in popularity as they are \"rediscovered\" after being suppressed during the McCarthy era. Even the term of proletarian poetry and which poets or poems belong to the genre has been subject to much debate in literary criticism then and now. However, the critic Milton Cohen collated a synthesis of aesthetic, stylistic, and political concerns from numerous articles debating the issue during the 30s: The \"would-be proletarian writer\" should:\n\nAt the time, proletarian poetry was also criticized in the 1930s by some critics for being \"raucous\", \"stilted\", and \"over-sentimental\", despite its attempts at representing the working class in the literature world. Many poems and songs were published in specific labor movement's magazines, like the Wobblies' \"Can Opener,\" \"Industrial Worker,\" and so on. Because of its shift from traditional verse and means of publication, proletarian poetry was not readily accepted, and it was received vaguely. Some saw proletarian poetry as not representative of the working class, that instead the white-collars were the writers because of their money and education, and not laborers themselves.\n\nThe populist proletariat movement of the 1930s has had a lasting effect on artists and voices to this day. Proletarian literature continues to be published, most notably by \"Partisan Press\" via the Blue Collar Review. Icons of the 1960s and 1970s progressive movements like Bob Dylan, Bruce Springsteen, and John Lennon all carried on the message of the masses through a new form of poetry and expression in rock music and pop music, which was just beginning to sprout into popular culture. Songs about the state of culture and the world like Springsteen's \"Born in the U.S.A.\" expressed both the hardship of the times and the herculean effort it would take to make a change in the life of the working man. In fact, both Dylan and Springsteen would make tributes to Woody Guthrie's influence on their lives and musical careers, with Dylan once saying of Guthrie, \"He’s the greatest holiest godliest one in the world. Genius genius genius genius,\", and Springsteen, \"If Woody Guthrie were alive today, he'd have a lot to write about...high times on Wall Street and hard times on main street.\" \n\nMusicians like Woody Guthrie became the voice of the proletariat movement after the 1930s. Guthrie's \"This Land Is Your Land\" was written in response to what he thought was an unrealistic and complacent view of American culture in \"God Bless America\", and the song is considered one of the great American folk music songs. Springsteen would use the song repeatedly in his set lists throughout the years, calling it \"about the most beautiful song ever written, and the greatest song ever written about America.\" \n\nThe punk rock movement can also trace its roots back to the messaging of the proletariat, with bands like The Sex Pistols, The Clash, and Dead Kennedys planting the seeds of anti-establishment and disillusionment thought in many youths of the time, which like Guthrie's generation, felt they had no opportunity in the world through nihilistic worldviews. The band Anti-Flag would name one of their songs on their 2001 release Underground Network \"This Machine Kills Fascists\" in tribute to Guthrie's guitar, on which, he had written \"This machine kills fascists.\" The band would also put music to Guthrie's lyrics \"Post-War Breakout\" on their 2003 release The Terror State. Joe Strummer, one of the guitarists and the main vocalist in The Clash, once called himself \"Woody\" in tribute Woody Guthrie to whom he considered his hero.\n\nThe proletariat message would also find itself in the songs of Bad Religion and Nine Inch Nails, which sought to counter-act the moral majority and conservative movements taking root in American politics at the time, with Greg Graffin, the vocalist of Bad Religion, stating, \"When we hit on Bad Religion, it seemed perfect...religion was a hot topic, and those TV preachers seemed like a good target to us...\", and even fuel the fire of Rage Against The Machine's quest for economic equality in the 1990s, with Rage Against The Machine guitarist Tom Morello once stating, \"America touts itself as the land of the free, but the number one freedom that you and I have is the freedom to enter into a subservient role in the workplace.\" \n\nMore modern takes on a changing world through the voices of the proletariat and middle classes can be found in Flogging Molly's and Dropkick Murphys' post-2000 releases which take on the war they say is being waged on the working man in America. Dropkick Murphys have recorded many covers of Guthrie songs included their 2005 release of I'm Shipping Up to Boston saying of the song, \"Obviously, there were a lot of deep songs about World War II and labor stuff, but randomly in the middle of all these serious lyrics was this silly song, which seemed kind of cool. When other people do Woody's stuff, you normally don't see that lighthearted side of his work.\" The band also has recorded a cover of Guthrie's \"Gonna Be A Blackout Tonight.\"\n\nSince August 2011, the U.S. poet laureate, Philip Levine, is also part of this legacy. His poetry often focuses on labor in Detroit.\n\n"}
{"id": "9852952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9852952", "title": "Asylum shopping", "text": "Asylum shopping\n\nAsylum shopping is the practice by asylum seekers of applying for asylum in several states or seeking to apply in a particular state after transiting other states. The phrase is used mostly in the context of the European Union and the Schengen Area, but has been used by the Federal Court of Canada. \n\nOne of the objectives of Police and Judicial Co-operation in Criminal Matters is to prevent asylum shopping. The Dublin Convention stipulates that asylum seekers are returned to the country where their entry into the union was first recorded and where they were first fingerprinted. Another objective of this policy is to prevent \"asylum seekers in orbit\", i.e., to prevent the continual transfer of asylum seekers between countries trying to get others to accept them.\n\nTo avoid abuses, European law, the Dublin Regulation, requires that asylum seekers register their asylum claim in the first country they arrive in, and that the decision of the first EU country they apply in, is the final decision in all EU countries. However, among some asylum seekers, the fingerprinting and registration is vehemently resisted in countries that are not considered asylum-seeker friendly, as they often wish to apply for asylum in Germany and Sweden where benefits are more generous. \n\nSome asylum seekers report burning their fingers so they can evade the fingerprint record control in Italy and apply for asylum in a country of their choice. The fingerprint record, known as the Eurodac system, is used to intercept false or multiple asylum claims. In Ireland, two-thirds of failed asylum seekers were found to be already known to the British border authorities, a third of the time under a different nationality, such as Tanzanians claiming to be fleeing persecution in Somalia.\n\n"}
{"id": "21672549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21672549", "title": "Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial and Museum", "text": "Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial and Museum\n\nThe Auschwitz-Birkenau Memorial and Museum ( (Teren Niemiecki zabrany Polsce) is a memorial and museum in Oświęcim (German: \"Auschwitz\"), Poland, which includes the Nazi concentration camps Auschwitz I and Auschwitz II-Birkenau. It is devoted to the memory of the victims who died at both camps during World War II. The museum performs several tasks, including Holocaust research.\n\nThe museum was founded by the act of the Sejm on July 2, 1947; the act determines:\n\n\"The site of the former Nazi concentration camp in Auschwitz together with all the buildings and installations standing there is to be kept forever as a 'Monument to the Martyrology of the Polish Nation and other Nations'.\"\n\nThe area covers , twenty of them in camp Auschwitz I and 171 hectares in camp Auschwitz II. Since 1979, the former concentration camp has belonged to the World Cultural Heritage and more than 25 million people have visited the museum. From 1955 to 1990, the museum was directed by one of its founders and former inmates, Kazimierz Smoleń.\n\nThe \"areas of remembrance\" are Auschwitz I, Auschwitz II-Birkenau, the train ramp between Auschwitz and Birkenau, which was used as a \"debarkation-stop\" between 1942–1944. The three kilometres between Auschwitz and Birkenau are within walking distance. The museum is situated in several original buildings.\n\nIn 2017, 2.1 million persons visited the site. In 2006, more than one million people from 94 countries visited: from Poland (341,000), U.S. (96,000), UK (57,200), Italy (51,000), Germany (50,200), France (39,100), Israel (37,200), South Korea (35,400), Norway (30,600), and Spain (23,300).\n\nThere were 1.3 million visitors in 2009 and 1.38 million in 2010. In 2011, more than 1.4 million people from 111 countries visited: from Poland (610,000), United Kingdom (82,000), Italy (78,000), Israel (62,000), Germany (58,000), France (56,000), United States (52,000), Spain (46,000), South Korea, and Czech Republic (43,000 each).\n\nAfter the Soviet Union handed over the camp to Poland in 1947, the parliament declared the area to be a museum on July 2, 1947. Simultaneously the first exhibition in the barracks was opened. In Stalinist Poland, on the occasion of the seventh anniversary of the first deportation of Polish captives to camp Auschwitz, the exhibition was revised under assistance of former inmates. However, this exhibition was influenced by the Cold War and next to pictures of Jewish ghettos, photos of slums in the US were presented.\n\nAfter Stalin's death, a new exhibition was planned in 1955, which is basically still valid today. In 1959, every nation who had victims in Auschwitz received the right to present its own exhibition. However, victims like homosexuals, Jehovah's Witnesses, Sinti and Roma, and Yeniche people did not receive these rights. The state of Israel was also refused the allowance for its own exhibition as the murdered Jews in Auschwitz were not citizens of Israel. In April 1968, the Jewish exhibition, designed by Andrzej Szczypiorski, was opened. A scandal occurred in 1979 when Pope John Paul II held a mass in Birkenau and called the camp a \"Golgotha of our times\".\n\nIn 1962, a prevention zone around the museum in Birkenau (and in 1977, one around the museum in Auschwitz) was established in order to maintain the historical condition of the camp. These zones were confirmed by the Polish parliament in 1999. In 1967, the first big memorial monument was inaugurated and in the 1990s the first information boards were set up.\n\nSince 1960, the so-called \"national exhibitions\" have been located in the former concentration camp Auschwitz I. Most of them were renewed from time to time; for example, those of Belgium, France, Hungary, Netherlands, Slovakia, Czech Republic, and the former Soviet Union. The German exhibition, which was made by the former GDR, has not been renewed since.\n\nThe first national exhibition of the Soviet Union was opened in 1961 and renewed in 1977 and 1985. In 2003, the Russian organizing committee suggested to present a completely new exhibition. The Soviet part of the museum was closed, but the reopening was delayed as there were differences in the questions of the territorial situation of the Soviet Union between 1939 and 1941. The question of the territories annexed by the USSR during the war, i.e. the Baltic countries, eastern Poland, and Moldova could not be solved.\n\nIn 1978, Austria opened its own exhibition, presenting itself as a victim of National Socialism. This one-sided view motivated the Austrian political scientist Andreas Maislinger to work in the museum within the Action Reconciliation Service for Peace (ARSP) in 1980/81. Later he founded the Austrian Holocaust Memorial Service. The Austrian federal president Rudolf Kirchschläger had advised Maislinger that as a young Austrian he did not need to atone for anything in Auschwitz. Due to this disapproving attitude of the official Austrian representation, the Austrian Holocaust Memorial Service could not be launched before September 1992.\n\nThe museum has allowed scenes for four films to be filmed on the site: \"Pasażerka\" (1963) by Polish director Andrzej Munk, \"Landscape After the Battle\" (1970) by Polish director Andrzej Wajda, and a television miniseries, \"War and Remembrance\" (1988), and \"Denial\" (2016). Permission was denied to Steven Spielberg for the construction of film sets on the grounds of the museum, for shooting scenes for \"Schindler's List\" (1993) onsite. A \"replica\" camp entrance was constructed outside the infamous archway for the scene in which the train arrives carrying the women who were saved by Oskar Schindler.\n\nIn 1979, the newly elected Polish Pope John Paul II celebrated mass on the grounds of Auschwitz II to some 500,000 people, and announced that Edith Stein would be beatified. Some Catholics erected a cross near Bunker 2 of Auschwitz II where she had been gassed. A short while later, a Star of David appeared at the site, leading to a proliferation of religious symbols, which were eventually removed.\n\nCarmelite nuns opened a convent near Auschwitz I in 1984. After some Jewish groups called for the removal of the convent, representatives of the Catholic Church agreed in 1987. One year later, the Carmelites erected an 8 m (26 ft) tall cross from the 1979 mass near their site, just outside Block 11 and barely visible from within the camp. This led to protests by Jewish groups, who said that mostly Jews were killed at Auschwitz and demanded that religious symbols be kept away from the site. The Catholic Church told the Carmelites to move by 1989, but they stayed on until 1993, leaving the cross behind. In 1998, after further calls to remove the cross, some 300 smaller crosses were erected by local activists near the large one, leading to further protests and heated exchanges. Following an agreement between the Polish Catholic Church and the Polish government, the smaller crosses were removed in 1999, but a large papal one remains.\n\nThe 50th anniversary of the liberation ceremony was held in Auschwitz I in 1995. About a thousand ex-prisoners attended it. In 1996, Germany made January 27, the day of the liberation of Auschwitz, the official day for the commemoration of the victims of National Socialism. Countries who have also adopted similar memorial days include Denmark (Auschwitz Day), Italy (Memorial Day), and Poland (Memorial Day for the Victims of Nazism).\nA commemoration was held for the 70th anniversary of the liberation in 2015.\n\nThe Polish Foreign Ministry has voiced objections to the use of the expression \"Polish death camp\" in relation to Auschwitz, in case the phrase suggested that Poland rather than Germany had perpetrated the Holocaust. In June 2007, the United Nations World Heritage Committee announced that their new name for the site was \"Auschwitz Birkenau,\" with the subtitle \"German Nazi Concentration and Extermination Camp (1940-1945).\"\n\nEarly in the morning on December 18, 2009, the \"Arbeit macht frei\" (\"work makes you free\") sign over the gate of Auschwitz I was stolen. Police found the sign hidden in a forest outside Gdańsk two days later. The theft was organised by a Swedish former neo-Nazi, Anders Högström, who reportedly hoped to use proceeds from the proposed sale of the sign to a collector of Nazi memorabilia, to finance a series of terror attacks aimed at influencing voters in upcoming Swedish parliamentary elections. Högström was convicted in Poland and sentenced to serve two years, eight months in a Swedish prison, and five Polish men who had acted on his behalf served prison time in Poland.\n\nHögström and his accomplices badly damaged the sign during the theft, cutting it into three pieces. Conservationists restored the sign to its original condition, and it currently is in storage, awaiting eventual display inside the museum. A replica hangs in its original place.<ref name=\"Mini Dictionary / Press\"></ref>\n\nIn February 2006, Poland refused to grant visas to Iranian researchers who were planning to visit Auschwitz. Polish Foreign Minister Stefan Meller said his country should stop Iran from investigating the scale of the Holocaust, which Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has dismissed as a myth. Iran has recently tried to leave the Ahmadinejad rhetoric in the past, but President Rouhani has never refuted his predecessor's idea that the scale of the Holocaust is exaggerated. Holocaust denial is punishable in Poland by a prison sentence of up to three years.\n\nCzechoslovakian Jew Dina Babbitt imprisoned at Auschwitz-Birkenau in 1943-45 painted a dozen portraits of Romani inmates for the war criminal Dr. Josef Mengele during his medical experiments. Seven of the original 12 studies were discovered after the Holocaust and purchased by the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum in 1963 from an Auschwitz survivor. The Museum asked Babbitt to return to Poland in 1973 to identify her work. She did so, but also requested that the Museum allow her to take her paintings home with her. Officials from the Museum led by Rabbi Andrew Baker stated that the portraits belonged to the SS and Mengele, who died in Brazil in 1979. There was an initiative to have the Museum return the portraits in 1999, headed by the U.S. government petitioned by Rafael Medoff and 450 American comic book artists. The Museum rejected these claims as legally groundless.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "159546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159546", "title": "Balaclava (clothing)", "text": "Balaclava (clothing)\n\nA balaclava, also known as a balaclava helmet, is a form of cloth headgear designed to expose only part of the face. Depending on style and how it is worn, only the eyes, mouth and nose, or just the front of the face are unprotected. Versions with a full face opening may be rolled into a hat to cover the crown of the head or folded down as a collar around the neck.\n\nThe name comes from their use at the Battle of Balaclava during the Crimean War, referring to the town near Sevastopol in the Crimea. British troops there wore knitted headgear, to keep warm.\n\nTraditional balaclavas were knitted from wool. Modern versions are also made from silk, cotton, polypropylene, neoprene, acrylic, or polar fleece.\n\nThis type of headgear was known in the 19th century as an Uhlan cap or a Templar cap.\n\nDuring the Crimean War in 1854, handmade balaclavas were sent over to the British troops to help protect them from the bitter cold weather. British troops required this aid, as their own supplies (warm clothing, weatherproof quarters, and food) never arrived in time. According to Richard Rutt in his \"History of Handknitting\", the name \"balaclava helmet\" was not used during the war but appears much later, in 1881.\n\nModern balaclavas are used in outdoor winter sports such as skiing, snowboarding, and snowmobiling to protect the face from wind and maintain warmth. They are also popular among motorcyclists and bicyclists. It is especially useful for balaclavas to have breathability when used in outdoor sports to prevent fogging of glasses and goggles. Breathable balaclavas are ideal for outdoor sports.\n\nFirefighters wear a fire-resistant version made of Nomex with a face opening that is covered by their self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA).\n\nElectrical workers often wear an arc-flash rated version in conjunction with a face shield and other personal protective equipment (PPE) while working on energized equipment.\n\nRace drivers In Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile sanctioned events must wear balaclavas made of fire-retardant material underneath their crash helmets. In racing events, hill-climbs, special stages of rallies and selective sections of cross-country events entered on the International Sporting Calendar, all drivers and co-drivers must wear overalls as well as gloves (optional for co-drivers), long underwear, a balaclava, socks, and shoes homologated to the FIA 8856-2000 standard.\n\nBritish Special Air Service (SAS) troopers wore balaclavas during the storming of the Iranian Embassy in London (Operation Nimrod) in 1980. The balaclavas were worn to conceal the identity of the SAS men because some had been working as undercover \"plain clothes\" men in Northern Ireland, and might need to resume their duties in the province after the Embassy operation.\n\nIn the Indian subcontinent, balaclavas are commonly referred to as monkey caps because of their typical earth tone colours, and the fact that they blot out most human facial features. Monkey caps sometimes have a small, decorative, woollen pom-pom on top. They are commonly worn by troops on Himalayan duty for protection from the cold.\n\nThe United States Marine Corps has recently begun issuing balaclavas with hinged face guards as part of the Flame Resistant Organizational Gear program.\n\nIn the Soviet Union, the balaclava became a part of standard OMON (special police task force) uniform as early as the Perestroyka years of the late 1980s. The original intent was to protect the identity of the officers to avoid intimidation from organized crime. Because of increased problems with organized crime of the 90s, TV shots of armed men in black balaclavas became common. As organized crime decreased, however, balaclavas became as much an instrument of intimidation as identity protection, as they conceal facial expressions of the wearer and make positive identification difficult. Armed Russian police commonly conduct raids and searches of white-collar premises (typically in Moscow) while wearing balaclavas. Such raids have therefore come to be known in Russia as \"maski shows\", an allusion to a popular comic TV show of the 1990s.\n\nA balaclava may be used occupationally by SWAT, special forces personnel, or by criminals to conceal their identities. In Ireland, the balaclava has a long history of use by paramilitary groups dating back to the Irish War of Independence. Notably, the Provisional IRA used balaclavas to conceal their identity.\n\nBritish Police in Kent confiscated the \"War on Terror\" board game partly because of the inclusion of a balaclava. Police said it \"could be used to conceal someone's identity or could be used in the course of a criminal act.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1176080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1176080", "title": "Blockade of Africa", "text": "Blockade of Africa\n\nThe Blockade of Africa began in 1808 after the United Kingdom outlawed the Atlantic slave trade, making it illegal for British ships to transport slaves. The Royal Navy immediately established a presence off Africa to enforce the ban, called the West Africa Squadron. Although the ban initially applied only to British ships, the UK negotiated treaties with other countries to give the Royal Navy the right to intercept and search their ships for slaves. A notable exception was the United States, which refused such permission. The 1807 Act Prohibiting Importation of Slaves technically abolished the intercontinental slave trade in the United States but the ban was not widely enforced and many of the slave ships which escaped the blockade were destined for the southern United States.\n\nFrom 1819, some effort was made by the United States Navy to prevent the slave trade. This mostly consisted of patrols of the shores of the Americas and in the mid-Atlantic, the latter being largely unsuccessful due to the difficulty of intercepting ships in mid-ocean. As part of the Webster–Ashburton Treaty of 1842 it was agreed that both countries would work together on the abolition of the slave trade, which was deemed piracy, and to continue the blockade of Africa. US Navy involvement continued until the beginning of the US Civil War in 1861; the following year the Lincoln administration gave the UK full authority to intercept US ships. The Royal Navy squadron remained in operation until 1870.\n\nThe Slave Trade Act 1807 stated that:\n\nThe African Slave Trade, and all manner of dealing and trading in the Purchase, Sale, Barter, or Transfer of Slaves, or of Persons intended to be sold, transferred, used, or dealt with as Slaves, practised or carried on, in, at, to or from any Part of the Coast or Countries of Africa, shall be, and the same is hereby utterly abolished, prohibited, and declared to be unlawful.\n\nUnder this Act if a ship was caught with slaves there was a fine of £100 per enslaved person. This fine was usually paid by the ship's captain. \n\nIn order to enforce this, two ships were dispatched to the African coast, their primary mission was to prevent British subjects from slave trading, and also to disrupt the slave trades of the UK's enemies during the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nThe original 1807 Act only allowed for British ships to be searched. Unfortunately, many ships were able to find loopholes around this act. This caused more acts to be passed in the late 1800's. Almost 30,000 Africans were still illegally imported. However, in 1810, under considerable diplomatic pressure, a convention with Portugal was signed widening the mandate of the Royal Navy. In 1815 Portugal strengthened their anti-slavery legislation by abolishing all trade north of the equator, allowing the Royal Navy a much freer hand. With the conclusion of the Napoleonic Wars, Britain obtained treaties with several other powers including France, which abolished its trade entirely in 1815 (but did not commit to right of search), and Spain, which agreed to cease trade north of the equator in 1818, and south of the equator by 1820. A clause was also inserted into the Congress of Vienna which called for the eventual abolition of the trade by all signatories. In 1826, Brazil signed an agreement similar to that of Portugal, and ceased trade north of the equator.\n\nThe UK's slave trade suppression efforts attempted to remain within the primitive international laws of the time: slavers had to be tried in courts. British vessels were taken to Vice admiralty courts, and those of foreign states which had treaties with the UK were taken to Courts of Mixed Commission. Mixed Commission Courts had representation from both the UK and the other nation in question, to ensure a fair trial. Many were established at key points along the coast of Africa and its islands. However the reluctance of other powers greatly curtailed the ability of the courts to operate; sometimes the foreign representation would never arrive, or arrive exceptionally late. The Brazilian ambassador, in spite of the court opening in 1826, did not arrive until 1828, and he reversed all judgements carried out in his absence upon his arrival.\n\nIn addition to the issues with Mixed Commission Courts, the Navy's mandate to police the trade was also found to be lacking and built on a series of complicated and often weak diplomatic treaties between other states. The agreements were signed reluctantly and therefore very weak in practice. When policing foreign vessels, there had to be slaves on board at the time of seizure for the accused slaver to be convicted. Unlike in Britain's 1807 act, there was no equipment clause, meaning that slave ships carrying what was obviously equipment for transporting slaves, but without slaves on board at the time of search, could not be seized. This major flaw, which greatly curtailed the Navy's efforts, and caused some naval officers to fall foul of the law, was not rectified until the 1830s. Frustrated with the lack of progress, in 1839 the British government subjected Portuguese vessels to British jurisdiction, and did the same to Brazilian vessels in 1845. This was an unprecedented step which subjected foreign vessels to the much more stringent British law, and much stricter penalties for slave trading.\n\nHowever, some nations, such as the United States, resisted British coercion. The US believed strongly in freedom of the seas and, on several occasions, refused to allow the Royal Navy right of search. Knowing that many slavers would fly false US flags to avoid being boarded, some slavers were even registered in southern US states. This caused several diplomatic incidents as frustrated officers would often board ships with US flags, directly contravening their orders, to capture slavers. In the US Congress there was fierce opposition to this, with John Forsyth stating in 1841 that “the persistence” of British cruisers was “unwarranted,” “destructive to private interests” and “[would] inevitably destroy the harmony of the two countries.” In 1842 there was a thaw in diplomatic relations and the US allowed visitation to US vessels, but only if a US officer was also present.\n\nWith the beginning of the 1850s Portugal had completely ceased slave trading (1836) and Spain had all but ceased, but Cuba was still an active slave port. Brazil continued to defy British intervention, and the Brazilian trade was not extinguished until 1852 when Palmerston began using force under the \"Pax Britannica\" doctrine.\n\nFollowing the 1807 Act, two ships had been dispatched to the African Coast for anti-Slavery patrol.\n\nBy 1818 the squadron had grown to six ships with a naval station established in 1819 at what is now Freetown and a supply base at Ascension Island, later moved to Cape Town in 1832.\n\nThe resources were further increased; in the middle of the 19th century there were around 25 vessels and 2,000 personnel with a further 1,000 local sailors. Between 1808 and 1860 the West Africa Squadron captured 1,600 slave ships and freed 150,000 Africans.\n\nUnfortunately this did not exactly reduce the number of deaths of African Slaves. Thousands of Africans lost their lives if the captain of a slave ship knew they were being approached by a squadron vessel. The captain would order for the slaves to be thrown overboard still shackled. Very few would make it to shore. \n\nIn spite of the Britain's best efforts to pursue suppression through diplomatic means the trade persisted. Public opinion was beginning to turn against the anti-slavery efforts due to their huge costs, the diplomatic repercussions they caused and the damage caused to other trade. Opposition in the Commons emerged from anti-coercionists, who were opposed to the use of British coercion of other nations and prolonged military action against slavers. The anti-coercionists were a mixed group of free trade activists and anti-slavery advocates who saw the only way to end the trade was to establish a legitimate commerce with Africa. Their leader, Thomas Fowell Buxton, advocated a renewed naval effort until legitimate commerce could be established. In 1839 he published \"The African Slave Trade and its Remedy\" which contained a top-to-bottom critique of the British efforts thus far. The work was highly influential and gave Buxton a leading role in the planning of the Niger expedition of 1841, to attempt to establish trading posts along the Niger River to create an alternative to slave trading. Although the plan had offered a long term solution to the slave trade, unfortunately the expedition ended in abject failure with many of the Europeans falling ill. In 1845 Buxton died with his ambitions unfulfilled.\n\nFrom 1845 the anti-coercionist cause became much more radical and much less concerned with the plight of Africans, this \"new generation\" of anti-coercionists did not include the abolitionists. Free trade advocates such as William Hutt were vehemently opposed to naval actions and argued the trade would eventually die naturally and the UK's interference was unwarranted. Such was their influence there was even a motion in the Commons to end all naval activity, which came dangerously close to ending the West Africa Squadron and also the career of the prime minister John Russell who threatened resignation should the motion be carried.\n\nTo prevent a repeat of this, swift action was taken. Brazil was still one of the largest slave trading nations and continued to defy British diplomatic calls to cease trading. In 1846 Palmerston returned as foreign secretary and in 1850 permitted Royal Naval vessels to enter Brazilian waters in order to blockade slavers on both sides of the Atlantic. By 1852 the Brazilian trade could be said to be extinct. “For Palmerston … the naval campaign on the coast of Brazil had brought the long drawn-out saga of the Brazilian slave trade to a resolution within twelve months.”\n\nThe many years of British pressure on the United States to join vigorously in fighting the Atlantic slave trade had been neutralised by the southern states. However with the onset of the US Civil War, the Lincoln administration became eager to sign up, humanitarian and military objectives combined. To the North, Anti-Slavery was an important military tool with which to harm the Confederate economy. It also won praise, sympathy and support on the international stage, and dampened international support for the Southern States who vehemently defended their right to keep slaves. In the Lyons–Seward Treaty of 1862, the United States gave the UK full authority to crack down on the trans-Atlantic slave trade when carried on by US ships. With the end of hostilities the UK and the US would continue cooperating, and in 1867 Cuba under much pressure from the two nations gave up its trade.\n\nThe United States Constitution of 1787 had protected the importation of slaves for twenty years. The Pennsylvania Abolition Society held its first meeting at the temporary Capital, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 1794. On 7 April 1798, the fifth Congress passed an Act that imposed a three-hundred dollars per slave penalty on persons convicted of performing the illegal \"importation of slaves\". It was an indication of the type of behaviour and course of events soon to become commonplace in the Congress.\n\nOn Thursday, 12 December 1805, in the ninth Congress, Senator Stephen Roe Bradley of the State of Vermont gave notice that he should, on Monday next, move for leave to bring in a bill to prohibit the importation of \"certain persons\" therein described \"into any port or place within the jurisdiction of the United States, from and after the first day of January,\" which will be \"in the year of our Lord 1808.\" His words would be repeated many times by the legislators in the ninth Congress. The \"certain persons\" were described as being slaves on Monday, 16 December 1805.\n\nWary of offending the slaveholders to the least degree, the Senate amended the proposed Senatorial Act, then passed it to the House of Representatives whereat it became meticulously scrutinised and, figuratively, poked and prodded. Cautiously, ever mindful of not inciting the wrath of slaveholders, members of the House produced a bill which would explain the Senatorial Act. The two measures were bound together, with the House bill being called \"H R 77\" and the Senate Act being called \"An Act to prohibit the importation of slaves into any port or place within the jurisdiction of the United States, from and after the first day of January, in the year of our Lord, 1808.\" The bond measure also regulated the coastwise slave trade. The bond measure was placed before President Thomas Jefferson on 2 March 1807 for his approbation.\n\nThe 1807 Act of Congress was modified and supplemented by the Fifteenth Congress. The importation of slaves into the United States was called \"piracy\" by an Act of Congress that punctuated the era of good feeling in 1819. Any citizen of the United States found guilty of such \"piracy\" might be given the death penalty. The role of the Navy was expanded to include patrols off the coasts of Cuba and South America. The naval activities in the western Atlantic bore the name of \"The African Slave Trade Patrol of 1820–61\". The \"blockade of Africa\" was still being performed in the eastern Atlantic at the same time.\n\nAmerican naval officer Matthew Calbraith Perry was the executive officer aboard in 1819, which had escorted the \"Elizabeth\", whose passengers included former slaves moving from the United States to Africa. President James Monroe had the Secretary of the Navy order the American vessel to convoy the \"Elizabeth\" to Africa with the first contingent of freed slaves that the American Colonization Society was resettling there. Of the 86 black emigrants sailing on the Elizabeth, only about one-third were men; the rest were women and children. In 1821, Perry commanded \"Shark\" in the Africa Squadron. \"Alligator\" under the command of Lieutenant Robert F. Stockton was also in the African Squadron in 1821 and captured several slavers. Lieutenant Stockton also convinced the local African chief to relinquish land around Cape Mesurado about which Liberia grew. Stockton became the commander of the US Navy's first screw-propelled steamer, the \"Princeton\", in 1843.\n\nOn 26 and 27 November 1842, aboard the \"Somers\" in the African Squadron, commander Alexander Slidell Mackenzie ordered the arrest of three crewmen who were plotting to take control of the ship. The three crewmen were convicted; they were hanged on 1 December. This is the only occurrence of Maritime Mutiny at Law in the history of the United States Navy.\n\nCommodore Perry was placed in command of the African Squadron in 1843. Ships which captured slavers while deployed with the African Squadron include \"Yorktown\", \"Constellation\", and the second \"Constellation\", which captured \"Cora\" on 26 September 1860, with 705 Africans on board. The first \"San Jacinto\" captured the brig \"Storm King\" on 8 August 1860, off the mouth of the Congo River, with 616 Africans on board. In her final act, \"Constitution\" captured H.N. \"Gambrill\" in 1853.\n\nThe Navy attempted to intercept slave ships from 1808 (or 1809) to 1866. A small number of ships were intercepted; some of those ships were carrying Africans destined to be sold into slavery, while other suspected ships which had none on board were captured and escorted away from the coast of Africa. \n\nThe Louisiana Purchase in 1803 created a great demand for more slaves to work in the vast new area. Jean Lafitte was a pirate who brought many slaves to the United States and sold them through an organised system established at New Orleans that included many very respectable merchants from the vicinity. After he helped Andrew Jackson during the War of 1812, President James Madison issued a proclamation early in 1815 granting him and his men pardons for their misdeeds.\n\nThe United States Navy Africa Squadron, Brazil Squadron and the Home Squadron was assigned the task of intercepting the ships which were bringing Africans across the Atlantic Ocean to the slave markets where \"black ivory\" found numerous customers. Since the War for Independence had been costly, no American warships were constructed between 1783 and 1795. The Navy Department was created on 30 April 1798, four years after President George Washington had communicated with Congress and expressed his alarm at the outrageous behaviour of Algeria. On 27 March 1794, following communication with President Washington, Congress authorised the purchase or construction of six frigates. These ships included the first \"Constellation\", launched 7 September 1797 and \"Constitution\", a ship that would be briefly employed in the African Squadron. Few new ships were built in the United States after 1801 until \"Guerriere\" was launched on 20 June 1814. It proved to be an effective warship in the War with the Barbary Pirates in 1815.\n\nIn its early efforts to enforce the law, the Navy used the ports of Charleston, SC and Savannah, GA from 1808 or 1809 to 1812 as home ports for several ships patrolling the Atlantic ocean in that area; however, USS \"Chesapeake\" sailed off the west coast of Africa early in 1813. The Navy created the African Squadron for the purpose of intercepting ships with \"black ivory\" on board; however, very few ships were operating together at any one time, which meant that the \"blockade of Africa\" was ineffective. More important tasks such as the War of 1812, the ongoing troubles with the Barbary Pirates, the extermination of the pirates in the West Indies from 1819 to 1827, the protection of American shipping in the Pacific Ocean off the coast of Peru in the 1830s, the War with Mexico in the 1840s, the voyages to Japan in the 1850s, and transporting of diplomats to other nations left little capability available for use in the African Squadron. Nevertheless, some noteworthy events involving ships while they were assigned to the African Squadron did occur.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7478345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7478345", "title": "Bright green environmentalism", "text": "Bright green environmentalism\n\nBright green environmentalism is an ideology based on the belief that the convergence of technological change and social innovation provides the most successful path to sustainable development.\n\nThe term \"bright green\", coined in 2003 by writer Alex Steffen, refers to the fast-growing new wing of environmentalism, distinct from traditional forms. Bright green environmentalism aims to provide prosperity in an ecologically sustainable way through the use of new technologies and improved design.\n\nProponents promote and advocate for green energy, electric automobiles, efficient manufacturing systems, bio and nanotechnologies, ubiquitous computing, dense urban settlements, closed loop materials cycles and sustainable product designs. \"One-planet living\" is a commonly used phrase. Their principal focus is on the idea that through a combination of well-built communities, new technologies and sustainable living practices, quality of life can actually be improved even while ecological footprints shrink.\n\nThe term \"bright green\" has been used with increased frequency due to the promulgation of these ideas through the Internet and recent coverage in the traditional media.\n\nAlex Steffen describes contemporary environmentalists as being split into three groups, \"dark\", \"light\", and \"bright\" greens. \n\"Light greens\" see protecting the environment first and foremost as a personal responsibility. They fall in on the transformational activist end of the spectrum, but light greens do not emphasize environmentalism as a distinct political ideology, or even seek fundamental political reform. Instead they often focus on environmentalism as a lifestyle choice. The motto \"Green is the new black\" sums up this way of thinking, for many. This is different from the term \"lite green\", which some environmentalists use to describe products or practices they believe are greenwashing.\n\nIn contrast, \"dark greens\" believe that environmental problems are an inherent part of industrialized civilization, and seek radical political change. Dark greens believe that currently and historically dominant political ideologies (sometimes referred to as industrialism) inevitably lead to consumerism, overconsumption, waste, alienation from nature and resource depletion. Dark greens claim this is caused by the emphasis on economic growth that exists within all existing ideologies, a tendency referred to as \"growth mania\". The dark green brand of environmentalism is associated with ideas of ecocentrism, deep ecology, degrowth, anti-consumerism, post-materialism, holism, the Gaia hypothesis of James Lovelock, as well as support for a reduction in human numbers and/or a relinquishment of technology to reduce humanity's effect on the biosphere.\n\nMore recently, \"bright greens\" emerged as a group of environmentalists who believe that radical changes are needed in the economic and political operation of society in order to make it sustainable, but that better designs, new technologies and more widely distributed social innovations are the means to make those changes—and that society can neither stop nor protest its way to sustainability. As Ross Robertson writes, \n\nWhile bright green environmentalism is an intellectual current among North American environmentalists (with a number of businesses, blogs, NGOs and even governments now explicitly calling themselves \"bright green\"—for instance, the City of Vancouver's strategic planning document is called \"Vancouver 2020: A Bright Green Future\"), it is in Northern Europe, especially Scandinavia, Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, that the idea of bright green environmentalism has become most widespread and most widely discussed. For instance, the official technology showcase and business expo for the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Copenhagen is called \"Bright Green\" in reference to this idea, while the Danish youth climate activism movement is called \"Bright Green Youth\".\n\n"}
{"id": "10494157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10494157", "title": "CONVIVIR", "text": "CONVIVIR\n\nCONVIVIR (an acronym for \"Servicios Especiales de Vigilancia y Seguridad Privada\" (\"Special vigilance and private security services\") that means \"Vivir en armonía\" in Spanish) was a national program of cooperative neighbourhood watch groups created by a February 11, 1994 decree of Colombia's Ministry of National Defense and a law passed in the Colombian Congress, in response to growing guerrilla activity. Authorized during the government of César Gaviria but mainly developed during the administration of Ernesto Samper Pizano (1994-1998), the CONVIVIR groups quickly became controversial as it was considered to represent something of a revival of the Law 48 of 1968. \n\nMembers of some former paramilitary groups transitioned into CONVIVIR, where they were joined by newer recruits and victims of guerrilla aggression, while others, such as the ACCU, remained operating independently. The then governor of Antioquia, Álvaro Uribe Velez (who later became President of Colombia), whose father had been killed by the FARC during a kidnapping attempt in 1983, gained notoriety for his open support and promotion of the CONVIVIR at the time.\n\nReports argued that some CONVIVIR groups achieved results in providing security to communities and intelligence coordination to military forces, but apparently numerous members committed abuses against civilians, without a serious oversight over their operations and organization. In 1998, HRW stated that \"we have received credible information that indicated that the CONVIVIR groups of the Middle Magdalena and of the southern Cesar regions were directed by known paramilitaries and had threatened to assassinate Colombians that were considered as guerrilla sympathizers or which rejected joining the cooperative groups\". \n\nAfter much political debate, a November 1997 decision of Colombia's Constitutional Court stated that CONVIVIR members could not gather intelligence information and could not employ military grade weapons. Other restrictions included increasing legal supervision, and in early 1998 dozens of former CONVIVIR groups had their licenses revoked, because they did not turn in their weapons and withheld information about their personnel. Due to these measures, some gradually turned in their weapons and phased themselves out. 237 of the restricted weapons were returned to authorities by the end of 1997. Other members did not comply and later joined existing paramilitary groups.\nAccording to a 2007 U.S. indictment against the Chiquita Brands International fruit company, a number of payments to the United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia passed through an \"intermediary\" Convivir group which operated in the Urabá region.\n\n"}
{"id": "19787188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19787188", "title": "Communications Data Bill 2008", "text": "Communications Data Bill 2008\n\nThe Communications Data Bill was intended to create powers to collect data concerning people's phone, e-mail and web-browsing habits for mass surveillance in the United Kingdom. The government database would have included telephone numbers dialed, the websites visited and addresses to which e-mails are sent but not the text of e-mails or recorded telephone conversations. \n\nSince October 2007 telecommunication companies have been required to keep records of phone calls and text messages for twelve months. The bill would have extended the coverage to Internet website visited, email messages, and VOIP data. \n\nChris Huhne, Liberal Democrat Home affairs spokesman said at the time: \"The government's Orwellian plans for a vast database of our private communications are deeply worrying.\"\n\nThe plans were not completed during the Labour administration, but intentions to gain access to more communications data lived on under the coalition elected in 2010 as the Communications Capabilities Development Programme run by the Home Office's Office for Security and Counter-Terrorism. In 2012, a new Draft Communications Data Bill was published.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "207373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=207373", "title": "Coronelism", "text": "Coronelism\n\nCoronelism, from the term \"Coronelismo\" () was the Brazilian political machine during the Old Republic (1889–1930), also known as the \"rule of the coronels\", responsible for the centralization of the political power in the hands of a locally dominant oligarch, known as a \"coronel\", who would dispense favors in return for loyalty.\n\nThe patron-client political machines of the countryside enabled agrarian oligarchs, especially coffee planters in the dominant state of São Paulo to dominate state structures to their advantage, particularly the weak central state structures that effectively devolved power to local agrarian oligarchies.\n\nIn time, growing trade, commerce, and industry in São Paulo state would serve to undermine the domination of the republic's politics by the São Paulo landed gentry (dominated by the coffee industry) and Minas Gerais (dominated by dairy interests)—known then by observers as the politics of \"café com leite\" (\"coffee with milk\"). Under Getúlio Vargas, Brazil moved toward a more centralized state structure that has served to regularize and modernize state governments, moving toward universal suffrage and secret ballots, gradually freeing Brazilian politics from the grips of \"coronelismo\". However, the legacy of the oligarchies is still strongly visible in what is described as Neo-Coronelism or electronic coronelism. Brazilian politics is still known for being highly patrimonial, oligarchic, and personalistic.\n\n"}
{"id": "25512102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25512102", "title": "Departmental secretary", "text": "Departmental secretary\n\nIn the administration of government in Australia, a departmental secretary (or just Secretary) is the most senior public servant of a Commonwealth or state government department, charged with leading the department on a day-to-day basis.\n\nA departmental secretary is the non-political non-elected public servant heads (and \"responsible officers\") of government departments, who generally hold their position for a number of years. A departmental secretary works closely with the elected government minister that oversees the Commonwealth department or state government department in order to bring about policy and program initiatives that the government of day was elected to achieve. A departmental secretary works with other departments and agencies to ensure the delivery of services and programs within the nominated area of responsibility.\n\nThe secretary is also known as the chief executive of the department; the position is equivalent to the Permanent Secretary of a government department in the United Kingdom, and similar to director general in some non-Commonwealth countries, or (very roughly) chief executive officer (CEO) in a private company.\n\nIn the Australian government, Secretaries are the responsible officers for departments, meaning that they are answerable to the Australian Parliament for ensuring that the department performs the functions assigned to it and spends money appropriately, as granted by the Parliament. Secretaries are frequently called for questioning by the Joint Committee of Public Accounts and Audit, the House of Representatives committees and the Senate committees.\n\nThe requires the Secretary of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet to provide a report to the Prime Minister of the day about the suitability of potential candidates as departmental secretary. The report is prepared in conjunction with the Public Service Commissioner. Appointments and terminations as departmental secretary are made by the Governor-General on the advice of the Prime Minister; under Sections 58 and 59 respectively of the \"Act\".\n\nSince the removal of tenure under Prime Minister Paul Keating, departmental secretaries are generally aware that while dismissals are not common, following a change of government, failure to re-appoint a secretary is certainly a frequent occurrence. In the first Rudd government, secretaries were appointed for a five-year term; prior to this a term of three years was common. In 1999, the sought to remove Paul Barratt as Secretary of the Department of Defence after Barratt fell out of favour with his Minister. Despite being offered a diplomatic post, Barratt refused to vacate the role and commenced legal action, claiming unfair dismissal and that the government had failed to follow due process. Barratt had a temporary stay, but was dismissed within 14 days, and subsequently lost, on appeal in the Federal Court.\n\nThe most senior Commonwealth public servant is the Secretary of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, currently Dr Martin Parkinson.\n\nThere are currently 22 individuals in Australian government departments with the grade of Secretary, though not all use these titles.\n\n"}
{"id": "41135246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41135246", "title": "E-governance in the United States", "text": "E-governance in the United States\n\nE-governance can be understood as the application of information and communication technology (ICT) with the purpose of providing government services online, as well as exchange information between the government and a variety of recipients, citizens, business’, and also other government. It is meant to be an easier and more contemporary alternative to the ways that people have always done it.\n\nE-Governance has many aspects, and \"branches\". One branch of e-gov. is transactional governance. The purpose of this part is to carry out or conduct business, negotiations, activities, and many other things and reach a conclusion or settlement with the other party. According to the academic journal Government Information Quarterly, it has been loosely defined as anything that the citizens, in pursuit of its governance, that is conducted over a computer-mediated network. E-gov systems are intertwined with traditional public management information systems, which have been found to be quite different from anything in the private sector due to differences in design, purpose, use, organizational role, and assessment criteria. \"Transactional Governance encompasses all forms of managerial governance, including selective incentives and monitoring capacity\", according to the academic journal Effects of Transactional and Transformational Governance on Academic Teaching.\n\nIn this growing era of technology we have moved to more electronic ways of performing government tasks or what we would call e-governance. In this transition to e-governance the main focus is to make sure that responsiveness, efficiency, and effectiveness is sustained at a high level.\n\nIn order to sustain a high level of output (responsiveness, efficiency, and effectiveness) we are tuning our focus to developing a performance management system for efficient and effective service delivery, which continuously measures and monitors service response performance.\nThe development of these management systems will improve public institutions and their service responses a great deal as well as making it much more accessible for the public to use to their advantage.\n\nTony Bovair states \"[c]learly, there are a number of difficult choices facing governments in deciding their priorities in e-government and e-governance. For example, increased efficiency might be gained if more communications could be made available only through telephone and internet connections. However, this could disadvantage those people without telephone or internet access. Again, e-governance mechanisms such as e-referenda Could improve the interactive participation of citizens and other stakeholders in government decision-making but it could also slow down decision making processes and could give rise to unrepresentative pressures being placed on governments and parliaments if security systems are not sufficiently watertight to eliminate bogus or multiple voting. In order to deal with this potential problem, governments will need to consider ways of setting priorities between the goals of e-government and e-governance. However, this will be problematic, both because the explicit setting of priorities is always difficult in a political setting and also because the goals of e-government and e-governance are so closely interrelated.\"\n\nUnderstanding the involvement and interaction between government and its citizens through the use of information and communication technologies (ICTs) is crucial when discussing E-governance in the United States. Holden defines e-government as “the delivery of government services and information electronically 24 hours per day, seven days per week.” After the Internet boom and the implementation of governmental portals and websites during the Clinton, Bush and Obama administrations, people in the United States now have the ability to access any number of programs online from e-voting and health care to tax returns and even accessing governmental data that was not previously available creating a more transparent and accountable face to the government.\n\nAccording to Andrew Chadwick and Christopher May in their article, \"Interaction between States and Citizens in the Age of the Internet: “e-Government” in the United States, Britain, and the European Union\", there are three major models of interaction associated with e-government, the managerial, the consultative and the participatory. Although at any given time these models of interaction can stand alone as the ideal form of involvement between the parties, more often than not, they overlap and provide multiple forms of interaction. To begin, the managerial model stresses a vertical flow of information from the government to its citizens. This model is concerned with efficiency, especially with the increase in speed when delivering information and services, as well as a reduction of the costs. This model establishes a client type relationship between the government and its citizens. Second, the consultative model also stresses vertical information flow but is more concerned with responding to needs of societal interest as expressed electronically by the citizens. This includes online elections, and other input from voters and requires an enormous amount of citizen involvement. The participatory model is the final and most interactive of the three major models of involvement between government and citizens. Unlike the other two, the participatory model strives for horizontal and multi directional flow of information that creates a cyber society that can be more effective for the general public. This model becomes relevant when universal access and widespread usage of the technology have become part of the norm in terms of government-citizen interaction. Although these models show some potential ways for citizen and government interaction, there are many benefits and flaws with the actual implementation of e-government and how it can affect people involved in the political process in the United States.\n\nThere are many benefits associated with e-governance in the United States and the involvement of citizens in the process. To begin, due to e-governance relevant information is more readily available to the public, while governmental programs become less expensive and more efficient. This allows most citizens to become part of the political process without leaving the comfort of their home. This increases the number of people willing to be involved in democracy and voice their opinions due to the instant access to the government. Another benefit in citizen involvement in e-government is building trust between the citizens and the state. Over the past decades there has been a decline in citizens overall trust in the government. With such easy access to information, government programs and officials, e-government provides the perfect platform to start building the trust between these two parties.\n\nThere are also a few potential issues with citizen involvement associated with e-government. The first and most difficult is a concept known as the digital divide, as discussed by Baird, Zellin and Booker, the authors of \"Is There A \"Digital Divide\" In The Provision Of E-Government Services at The County Level In the United States\". This is the idea that some Americans are not involved in the political process and e-government due to lack of access to technology, lack of technical skills, or due to some financial constraint. This is extremely problematic due to the necessity of e-government to have input from all voters and citizens, not just specific groups, for it to be fully effective. It is of critical importance for everyone to be able to voice his or her opinions equally in order to maintain democratic integrity.\nAnother major issue having to do with citizen involvement stems from problems with the actual technology used for e-governance and the potential that it will not always function as it is supposed to. A good example of this was the problems with the healthcare.gov website that was established to help citizens with healthcare information and enrollment during the Obama Administration. Since the technology initially did not consistently work, this limited the initial effectiveness of the program and ultimately made it more difficult instead of more efficient. The website has since been modified in the attempt to continue providing this healthcare e-governance service.\n\nInformation dispersal and public engagement are key to the success of e-governance. However, the process of successfully engaging the public is quite complex. Due to the wide range of internet advancements in recent years, the coordination of public engagement is difficult. Yet, the common desire to stay informed and find accessible methods to govern remains crucial.\n\nFor example, the current Obama administration has been working to develop a more democratically engaged society. There has been much controversy over the administration's Affordable Care Act. With this piece of legislation, Healthcare.gov was created to provide a source for Americans to buy health insurance. Although this website has been unsuccessful thus far, it is a prime example of how the United States government can relay information as well as provide its services via the internet. Healthcare.gov is made to be a marketplace for healthcare insurance providers. The website offers groundwork for Americans to shop for coverage at lower costs or possibly find undeniable coverage. Depending on the success of the website, it may be one of the most effective, or at least most historic, government technological establishments in American history.\n\nThe focus of technological implementation during each generation has faced a new and difficult sets of challenges. Previously Size and cost and function caused there to be a small focused use of computers. As computers became cost efficient and versatile there was difficulty dealing with the management of the new technology. Increasingly, privacy and security are becoming important issues. Since technology permeates our society and all of our lives are within the digital spectrum a whole new dimension of vulnerabilities is now needing to be addressed.\n\nCurrently the focus majority of the government application has been the increase in efficiency and information and communication technologies. In the future this trend will continue. Recently increased emphasis has been placed in democratic engagement.\n\nAs new technology is developed new rules and policies have to be crafted, and old policies adapted, each time adding another layer of complexity to integration and potentially mitigating benefits from embracing new technology. Many government agencies have struggled to adjust to the adoption of digital data. Other agencies struggle to control the flow of information such as security and police organizations not sharing information, and the controversial gathering of too much information. If e-governance in the United States is to advance the demand more sophisticated technological solutions for encryption, information sharing, and interactive communication will need to be addressed. Eventually E- government will just be government as the use of technology is the norm.\n\n"}
{"id": "58006641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58006641", "title": "ED pfee", "text": "ED pfee\n\nED Pfee is a slogan used by Zanu PF and Zimbabwe president Emmerson Mnangagwa's supporters as a sign of endorsing him towards the Zimbabwe 2018 elections. The ED Pfee slogan is used as a rally chant and social media slogan as #EDpfee.\n\nED abbreviation refers to Emmerson Dambudzo, which are the president's names and pfee is a Shona slang term derived from the word 'Pfekera' which refers to entering.\n"}
{"id": "441421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=441421", "title": "Ecologist Green Party of Mexico", "text": "Ecologist Green Party of Mexico\n\nThe Ecological Green Party of Mexico (, PVEM or PVE) is a green-conservative political party in Mexico. In the 2012 Legislative elections, the party took 34 seats in the Chamber of Deputies (out of 500) and nine seats in the Senate (out of 128). During the 2012 Presidential election, PVEM supported Enrique Peña Nieto (EPN), the candidate from the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI), who was elected.\n\nIn 2008, the PVEM initiated an advertising campaign in favor of reintroducing the death penalty in Mexico. This led to the European Green Party's withdrawal of recognition of the PVEM as a legitimate green party.\n\nDuring an interview, PVE candidate Gamaliel Ramirez verbally attacked an openly gay candidate for Guadalajara mayor and called for criminal laws against homosexuality to be established. In the following days, Ramirez issued a written apology after the party expressed disappointment at his remarks.\n\nWhile the party has pledged to support LGBT rights issues, 3 representatives abstained from a vote on Mexico City granting legal recognition to same-sex couples.\n\nThe PVEM is also widely criticized because its current leader, Jorge Emilio González Martínez, was appointed for being the son of former leader Jorge González Torres, and for supporting the political and business agenda of Mexican businessman Víctor González Torres, owner of the \"Farmacias Similares\" drugstore franchise and González Martínez's uncle.\n\nIn January 2015, the National Electoral Institute (INE) ordered the PVEM and theater chains Cinemex and Cinépolis to cease airing PVEM advertisements, on the grounds of fairness in electoral contests. When the PVEM and the theaters did not comply, the INE imposed a fine of $35 million on the PVEM and $7 million on both theater chains.\n\n"}
{"id": "42255549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42255549", "title": "Eurasian Observatory for Democracy and Elections", "text": "Eurasian Observatory for Democracy and Elections\n\nEurasian Observatory for Democracy and Elections (EODE) is a Russia-based Eurasianist non-governmental organization which on its website claims that it monitors elections.\nAccording to its website, it specializes in the \"self-proclaimed republics\" (Abkhazia, Transdnistria, Nagorno-Karabakh).\nIt is led by the Belgian activist Luc Michel and Jean-Pierre Vandersmissen. Both Michel and Vandermissen are followers of the Belgian Neo-Nazi politician Jean-François Thiriart.\n\nOliver Bullough of \"New Republic\" reported in 2014 that the organization stated on its website that it shared the values of \"the current Russian leadership and V. V. Putin.\" The organization states that is committed to a multi-polar world and is critical of what it sees as a unipolar world dominated in the twenty-first century by the United States and NATO. It is opposed to the imposition of western values and the identification of the western-style parliamentary system of democracy as a universal norm not open to criticism. \n\nEODE visited Crimea during the 2014 Crimean referendum and claimed that the referendum was conducted in a legitimate manner.\n\nThe organization has offices in Moscow, Paris, Brussels, Sochi and Chișinău.\n\n"}
{"id": "21449125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21449125", "title": "Falsifiers of History", "text": "Falsifiers of History\n\nFalsifiers of History was a book published by the Soviet Information Bureau, edited and partially re-written by Joseph Stalin, in response to documents made public in January 1948 regarding German–Soviet relations before and after the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact.\n\nIn 1948, the U.S. State Department published a collection of documents titled \"Nazi–Soviet Relations, 1939–1941: Documents from the Archives of The German Foreign Office\", which contained documents recovered from the Foreign Office of Nazi Germany. The collection included documents from, and about conversations with, Soviet officials during negotiations regarding the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, a 1939 agreement between the Soviet Union and Germany, along with the related 1939 German–Soviet Commercial Agreement. It also included publication of the \"Secret Additional Protocol\" of that Pact, which divided eastern Europe into \"spheres of influence\" between Germany and the Soviet Union, executed weeks before each country's subsequent invasion of Poland. The collection further contained \"Secret Supplementary Protocols\" to agreements between the countries, discussions regarding the 1940 German–Soviet Commercial Agreement, discussions of the Soviet Union potentially becoming an Axis Power and other German–Soviet negotiations and discussions.\n\n\"Falsifiers\" was published in response to the documents made public in \"Nazi–Soviet Relations\". Joseph Stalin became personally involved in editing the work after receiving a translation of the \"Nazi–Soviet Relations\" document collection. On February 3, 1948, Stalin was presented with a typescript titled \"Reply to Slanderers\". Stalin changed the title to \"Falsifiers of History (Historical Reports)\". Stalin personally edited the book, including striking and re-writing whole sections by handwritten modification.\n\n\"Falsifiers\" originally appeared as a series of articles in \"Pravda\" in February 1948. It was subsequently published in numerous languages and distributed worldwide. Separately, the Soviet Union later published a collection of documents it captured from German archives titled \"Documents and Materials Relating to the Eve of the Second World War\".\n\n\"Falsifiers\" pointedly ignored Soviet relations with Germany, making no attempt to directly counter or deal with the documents published in \"Nazi–Soviet Relations\". Rather, the main theme of the booklet is Western culpability for the outbreak of war in 1939. It argues that \"Western powers\" aided Nazi rearmament and aggression, including that American bankers and industrialists provided capital for the growth of German war industries, while deliberately encouraging Hitler to expand eastward. It depicted the Soviet Union as striving to negotiate a collective security against Hitler, while being thwarted by double-dealing Anglo–French appeasers who, despite appearances, had no intention of a Soviet alliance and were secretly negotiating with Berlin.\n\n\"Falsifiers\" casts the Munich agreement, not just as Anglo–French short-sightedness or cowardice, but as a \"secret\" agreement that was \"a highly important phase in their policy aimed at goading the Hitlerite aggressors against the Soviet Union.\" \"Falsifiers\" also included the claim that, during the Pact's operation, Stalin rejected Hitler's offer to divide the world, without mentioning the Soviet counteroffer to Germany's offer to the Soviets to join the Axis. The parties never reached agreement on Axis entry. Stalin's account in \"Falsifiers\" was repeated in Soviet historical texts until the Soviet Union's dissolution. Regarding Soviet–German relations after the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, \"Falsifiers\" main theme frames Soviet actions as a legitimate attempt to build up an \"Eastern front\" to defend against inevitable Nazi aggression.\n\n\"Falisifiers\" characterization of Western policy as anti-Communist, anti-Soviet, and pro-Nazi had been a prominent theme of Soviet propaganda before the Second World War, and such rhetoric more vigorously reemerged during the Cold War.\n\nSoviet publications before the revelation of documents in \"Nazi–Soviet Relations\" had avoided discussing the Soviet–German pact. Accordingly, \"Falsifiers\" is novel because it is a first frank Soviet discussion of the German–Soviet pact in a publication. In addition, because \"Falsifiers\" was personally and extensively edited by Stalin, at the very least, it provides unique insight into the view of events that he was keen to publicize.\n\nThe book provides insight into Stalin's thinking and calculations in the autumn of 1940. In analyzing the text of \"Falsifiers\" surrounding Soviet–German talks regarding the potential entry as the Soviet Union as an Axis Power, historian Geoffrey Roberts argues that there is no reason that Stalin would not have signed a four-power pact if Germany accepted his November offer.\n\nThe arrangement of chapters and section titles is as follows:\n\nIntroduction\nChapter 1: How Preparation for German Aggression Was Commenced\nChapter 2: Not a Struggle Against German Aggression, But A Policy Of Isolating the U.S.S.R.\nChapter 3: Isolation of the Soviet Union: The Soviet–German Non-Aggression Pact\nChapter 4: Creation of the \"Eastern Front\". Germany's Attack on the U.S.S.R., The Anti-Hitler Coalition And The Question of Inter-Allied Obligations\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3608437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3608437", "title": "Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969", "text": "Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969\n\nThe Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act of 1969, U.S. Public Law 91-173, generally referred to as the Coal Act, was passed by the 91st United States Congressional session and enacted into law by the 37th President of the United States Richard Nixon on December 30, 1969.\n\nThe S. 2917 legislation created the Mining Enforcement and Safety Administration (MESA), later renamed the Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA), as well as a National Mine Map Repository, within the Department of the Interior.\n\nMSHAs responsibilities paralleled those of Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) but addressed underground and surface mining of coal. The legislation was more comprehensive and stringent than previous federal laws governing the mining industry. \n\nThe Coal Act required two annual inspections of every surface coal mine and four at every underground coal mine, and dramatically increased federal enforcement powers in coal mines. The Coal Act also required monetary penalties for all violations, and established criminal penalties for knowing and willful violations. The safety standards for all coal mines were strengthened, and health standards were adopted. \n\nThe Coal Act also included specific procedures for the development of improved mandatory health and safety standards, and provided compensation for miners who were totally and permanently disabled by the progressive respiratory disease caused by the inhalation of fine coal dust pneumoconiosis or \"black lung\".\n\nIn regard to the mine map repository, the Coal Act required that:\n\n\"Whenever an operator permanently closes or abandons a coal mine, or temporarily closes a coal mine for a period of more than ninety days, he shall promptly notify the Secretary of such closure. Within sixty days of the permanent closure or abandonment of the mine, or, when the mine is temporarily closed, upon the expiration of a period of ninety days from the date of closure, the operator shall file with the Secretary a copy of the mine map revised and supplemented to the date of the closure.\" \n\nInitial enforcement of the law was slow due to understaffed enforcement agencies, a situation which was criticized when the Hurricane Creek mine disaster occurred a year to the day after passage of the act, killing 38 men in a mine with a long history of violations.\n\nIt was updated by the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977, Public Law 95-164.\n\n"}
{"id": "13897001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13897001", "title": "Food Corporation of India", "text": "Food Corporation of India\n\nThe Food Corporation of India is an organization created and run by the Government of India.\n\nThe Food Corporation of India (FCI) was set up on 14 January 1965 having its first District Office at Thanjavur – rice bowl of Tamil Nadu – and headquarters at Chennai (The Headquarters later shifted to Delhi) under the Food Corporations Act 1964 to implement the following objectives of the National Food Policy :\n\n\nIt is one of the largest corporations in India and probably the largest supply chain management in Asia (Second in world ) . It operates through 05 Zonal offices and 24 Regional offices. Each year, the Food Corporation of India purchases roughly 15 to 20 per cent of India's wheat output and 12 to 15 per cent of its rice output. The purchases are made from the farmers at the rates declared by the Govt. of India. This rate is called as MSP (Minimum Support Price). There is no limit for procurement in terms of volume, any quantity can be procured by FCI(Food Corporation of India) provided the stock satisfies FAQ (Fair Average Quality) specifications with respect to FCI.\n\nFood Corporation of India operates through its Depot headed by Manager(Depot). Every district has few depots to cater to the requirement of the district's rural population. The depot reports to District Office, headed by an Assistant General Manager, designated as Area Manager. Assistant General Manager (Quality Control) is also posted who is looking after the QC work. Under Area Manager control, there are Managers to deal with each and every section viz., Depot, Sales, Contracts, Procurement, SL-TL, Movement, Establishment, Quality Control (QC), Operational accounts etc., who consolidate the field level operations and through the area managers' authorization, they transmit the necessary information and periodical statements to Regional Offices of their respective regions. Under Managers are Assistant Grades Level -1, Level -2 and Level - 3 who help managers in day-to-day operations of the organization.\n\nThe district office reports to regional offices which are headed by a General Manager, who is in most of the cases from Indian Revenue Service, Indian Administrative Service /All India Services under deputation. Under his control Deputy General Managers (DGM) who are FCI's officers co-ordinate with daily operations through the Assistant General Managers who were posted in various sections to oversee the functions of district offices units of their particular section. All these officers appraise the general manager periodically on various issues pertaining to district offices of that particular region.\n\nFCI has been divided into 5 zones viz. North, South, East, West & North-East with a Zonal Office in each zone. Each zone is further divided into regions with a regional office in one region. All the Regional Offices are under the control of Zonal Offices which are headed by an Executive Director, who in most of the cases is from Indian Administrative Service or Indian Revenue Service under deputation. Under his control three or more than three General Managers co-ordinate with all Regional Offices of their particular zone through subordinate officers like Deputy General Managers and Assistant General Managers dealing with their allotted operational sections in their zone.\n\nAll the Zonal Offices are under the control of Headquarters, located at New Delhi, which is headed by Chairman and Managing Director, who is an Indian Administrative Service of Secretary rank on Central Deputation. Headquarters instruct, communicate, consolidate and refine the voluminous information required for the streamlined execution of day-to-day operations and coordinates with Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution and Food Secretary and various sister corporations like Central Warehousing Corporation, Indian Railways in formulating food policy or amending the existing policy to suit the emerging challenges in managing Food Security scenario of the nation.\n\nThe CMD is a member of the Board of Directors along with Director Finance, Director HR, Director Operations and Director Sales.\n\nThe Food Corporation of India procures rice and wheat from farmers through many routes like paddy purchase centres/mill levy/custom milling and stores them in depots. FCI maintains many types of depots like food storage depots and buffer storage complexes and private equity godowns and also implemented latest storage methods of silo storage facilities which are located at Hapur in Uttar Pradesh and Elavur in Tamil Nadu. The stocks are transported throughout India and issued to the state government nominees at the rates declared by the Government of India for further distribution under the Public Distribution System (PDS) for the consumption of the ration card holders. (FCI itself does not directly distribute any stock under PDS, and its operations end at the exit of the stock from its depots). The difference between the purchase price and sale price, along with internal costs, are reimbursed by the Union Government in the form of food subsidy. At present the annual subsidy is around $10 billion. FCI by itself is not a decision-making authority; it does not decide anything about the MSP, imports or exports. It just implements the decisions made by the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution and Ministry of Agriculture.\n\nFood Corporation of India recently ventured into procurement of pulses in various regions from the crop year 2015–16, and pulses are procured at market rate, which is a sharp deviation from its traditional minimum support price-based procurement system.\n\nIn 2014, Government of India set up a high-level committee under the chairmanship of Hon'ble Member of Parliament and former Minister of Food and Consumer Affairs and Public Distribution Shri Shanthakumar to recommend viable solutions regarding restructuring and reorienting the role of Food Corporation of India, and the committee submitted its report to the government, and many of the committee recommendations are under various stages of implementation.\n\n"}
{"id": "7464822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7464822", "title": "Franquin's Last Laugh", "text": "Franquin's Last Laugh\n\nFranquin's Last Laugh () is a collection of black comedy comic strips drawn by André Franquin, written by Franquin and Yvan Delporte. The one-page stories first appeared frequently in 1977, in the brief run of the \"Spirou\" magazine supplement, \"Le Trombone illustré\". After this initiative was cancelled, \"Idées noires\" resumed publication in the magazine \"Fluide Glacial\", upon Gotlib's suggestion, where it remained a fixture until 1983. The first album was published in 1981, and a sequel in half-page format was published in 1984.\n\nAs the title \"Idées noires\" might suggest, these stories explore depressive and horrific fantasies, all drawn with dramatic use of black on white. Suicide, execution, industrial recklessness, ecological disaster and hunting accidents are some of the themes darkly illustrated in this body of work. It's also notable for its stances against nuclear energy, the death penalty, game hunting and war. The series contrasts sharply with Franquin's other comic strips such as \"Gaston Lagaffe\", \"Spirou et Fantasio\" and the \"Marsupilami\", although a dark touch occasionally surfaced in other later work such as the \"Gaston Lagaffe\" strip for Amnesty International (published in \"Cauchemarrants\", 1979).\n\nA few pages were translated in Kitchen Sink's short-lived comics magazine \"French Ticklers\" under the title \"Dark Designs\". The whole collection was set to be published by Fantagraphics Books in an English translation by Kim Thompson in 2013, but publication has been delayed, possibly because of Thompson's death to cancer. It was finally published in 2018 under the title \"Die Laughing\".\n\n\nIn the Belgian Comic Strip Center in Brussels the permanent exhibition brings homage to the pioneers of Belgian comics, among them André Franquin. One of the rooms dedicated to his work is a black, dark tunnel where pages from \"Idéés Noires\" are exhibited.\n\n\nFootnotes\n"}
{"id": "30810672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30810672", "title": "German Lopatin", "text": "German Lopatin\n\nGerman Alexandrovich Lopatin (; 13 January 1845, in Nizhny Novgorod, Russia – 26 December 1918, in Petrograd) was a Russian revolutionary, journalist and writer. \n\nLopatin came from an aristocratic family. He studied physics and mathematics at the University of St. Petersburg, where he graduated in 1866 with a thesis \"On Spontaneous Formation\". This thesis reflected the materialist ideas of the philosophers Vogt, Büchner and Moleschott, which were then extremely popular among Russian radicals. \n\nIn the course of his studies, Lopatin had become involved in radical student politics. In 1867 he travelled to Italy, hoping to join the revolutionary army of Giuseppe Garibaldi. Nothing much came of this. On his return to Russia, Lopatin became involved in the populist ('narodnik') movement. He belonged to the Ishutin Circle. Together with F.V. Volkhovsky, he organised the \"One Ruble Society\", a group dedicated to educational work and revolutionary propaganda among the common people. \n\nLopatin was soon arrested. Exiled to Stavropol in 1868, he began to study the writings of Karl Marx. He became one of the first Russian revolutionaries to be strongly influenced by Marxism. Marx and Engels thought highly of him. Under their influence he came to see revolution not so much as a coup to be carried out at will by a minority, but rather as a mass uprising requiring certain 'material preconditions'.\n\nIn 1870 Lopatin secretly returned to St. Petersburg and there helped organise the escape of P.L. Lavrov from banishment. Lopatin escaped to Western Europe soon after. In France he joined the First International and became a member of its General Council. In the summer of 1870 he visited London, England, where he struck up a friendship with Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels and began work on a translation of volume 1 of Marx' book 'Capital'. This translation was later completed by N.F. Danielson. In the winter of the busy and eventful year of 1870, Lopatin returned to Russia, intending to free the respected revolutionary writer N.G. Chernyshevsky from Siberia. However, Lopatin was himself arrested. He escaped from Siberia in 1873 and returned to Western Europe. Lopatin sided with Marx during the latter's conflict with Bakunin, which eventually destroyed the First International. He especially opposed the 'nihilistic' ideology of S.G. Nechaev, who was then an associate of Bakunin's.\n\nIn 1879 Lopatin returned clandestinely to Russia to work with 'Land and Liberty'. When that organisation split the same year, Lopatin sided with 'The People's Will'. However, he was arrested again. In 1883 he escaped from Siberia once more and returned to the West. In Paris he collaborated with Lavrov and other exiles in reviving 'The People's Will', trying to convert it from a Blanquist conspiratorial organisation into a mass party and arguing that the party should seek to organise the emerging industrial proletariat. Lopatin became a member of the party's Administrative Committee and served as its \"de facto\" leader. He was instrumental in unmasking the secret police agent S.P. Degaev.\n\nHowever, in October 1884, in the course of yet another daring secret mission to Russia, he was arrested. A large number of addresses were found on him, leading to mass arrests and to the Trial of the 21 in 1887. Lopatin was sentenced to life imprisonment in the notorious Shlisselburg Fortress. During this incarceration Lopatin's health was seriously compromised. Lopatin was freed during the abortive Russian Revolution of 1905. He sympathised with the Socialist-Revolutionary Party, but was also respected by the Social-Democrats. Due to his broken health he did not become politically active but settled in Vilno (now Vilnius, Lithuania). He returned to St. Petersburg in 1913 and live in the 'House of Literati'. Lopatin welcomed the February Revolution of 1917 enthusiastically but opposed the October Revolution.\n\nLopatin was also a respected literary figure. In addition to his journalism, he wrote extensive poetry, short stories and an autobiography. Russian writers who praised him included I.S. Turgenev, G.I. Uspensky, L.N. Tolstoy and Maksim Gorky. \n\nGerman Lopatin died of cancer in 1918.\n"}
{"id": "319880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=319880", "title": "Government of the 11th Dáil", "text": "Government of the 11th Dáil\n\nThe 11th Dáil was elected at the 1943 general election on 23 June 1943 and first met on 1 July when the 3rd Government of Ireland was appointed. The 11th Dáil lasted for 342 days.\n\nThe 3rd Government of Ireland (1 July 1943 – 9 June 1944) was formed by the Fianna Fáil party.\nThe government positions are listed in alphabetical order, rather than in terms of seniority.\n\n"}
{"id": "34062943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34062943", "title": "Green Climate Fund", "text": "Green Climate Fund\n\nThe Green Climate Fund (GCF) is a fund established within the framework of the UNFCCC as an operating entity of the Financial Mechanism to assist developing countries in adaptation and mitigation practices to counter climate change. The GCF is based in the Incheon, South Korea. It is governed by a Board of 24 members and supported by a Secretariat.\n\nThe objective of the Green Climate Fund is to \"support projects, programmes, policies and other activities in developing country Parties using thematic funding windows\". It is intended that the Green Climate Fund be the centrepiece of efforts to raise Climate Finance under the UNFCCC.\n\nAccording to the Climate & Development Knowledge Network, at the third meeting of the Board in Berlin in March 2013, members agreed on how to move forward with the fund's Business Model Framework (BMF). They identified the need to assess various options for how nations could access the fund, approaches for involving the private sector, plus ways to measure results and ensure requests for monies are country-driven. At the fourth Board meeting in June 2013, Hela Cheikhrouhou, a Tunisian national, was selected to become the Fund's first Executive Director. Cheikhrouhou left the fund in September 2016. Ms. Cheikhrouhou was succeeded by Australian national Howard Bamsey, who took office on 10 January 2017. Mr. Bamsey resigned from his position as Executive Director on 4 July 2018, at the completion of the 20th meeting of the Board which was dominated by \"challenging and difficult discussions between Board members\" without any climate finance being approved. The position of Executive Director is temporarily observed by Javier Manzanares until a replacement is appointed by the Board.\n\nThe Copenhagen Accord, established during the 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP-15) in Copenhagen mentioned the \"Copenhagen Green Climate Fund\". The fund was formally established during the 2010 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Cancun as a fund within the UNFCCC framework. Its governing instrument was adopted at the 2011 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP 17) in Durban, South Africa.\n\nDuring COP-16 in Cancun, the matter of governing the GCF was entrusted to the newly founded Green Climate Fund Board, and the World Bank was chosen as the temporary trustee. To develop a design for the functioning of the GCF, the \"Transitional Committee for the Green Climate Fund\" was established in Cancun too. The committee met four times throughout the year 2011, and submitted a report to the 17th COP in Durban, South Africa. Based on this report, the COP decided that the \"GCF would become an operating entity of the financial mechanism\" of the UNFCCC, and that on COP-18 in 2012, the necessary rules should be adopted to ensure that the GCF \"is accountable to and functions under the guidance of the COP\". Researchers at the Overseas Development Institute state that without this last minute agreement on a governing instrument for the GCF, the \"African COP\" would have been considered a failure. Furthermore, the GCF Board was tasked with developing rules and procedures for the disbursement of funds, ensuring that these should be consistent with the national objectives of the countries where projects and programmes will be taking place. The GCF Board was also charged with establishing an independent secretariat and the permanent trustee of the GCF.\n\nThe Fund has set itself a goal of raising $100 billion a year by 2020, which is not an official figure for the size of the Fund itself. Uncertainty over where this money would come from led to the creation of a High Level Advisory Group on Climate Financing (AGF) by UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon in February 2010. There is no formal connection between AGF and GCF, although its report is one source for debates on \"resource mobilisation\" for the GCF, an item that will be discussed at the GCF's October 2013 Board meeting. Disputes also remain as to whether the funding target will be based on public sources, or whether \"leveraged\" private finance will be counted towards the total.\n\nAs at 17 May 2017, a total of US$10.3 billion has been pledged, which is mostly meant to cover start-up costs.\n\nThe European Commission does not provide funding to the fund. EU member states contribute directly, and by 2016 they have jointly pledged US$4.7 billion, nearly half of the fund's resources.\n\nThe lack of pledged funds and potential reliance on the private sector is controversial and has been criticized by developing countries. Though the Green Climate Fund is an important institution for ensuring the implementation of the Paris Agreement, its future financial viability is by no means guaranteed. The USA had pledged $ 3 billion, of which $ 2 billion are outstanding. Since US President Donald Trump has announced his nation’s withdrawal from the Paris Agreement in June, this money is unlikely to flow in the next few years. Some observers worry that other major donor countries – including Japan, Britain and Germany – will not make up for the shortfall.\n\nU.S. President Obama committed the US to contributing US$3 billion to the fund. In January 2017, in his final 3 days in office, Obama initiated the transfer of a second $500m installment to the fund, leaving $2 billion owing. U.S. President Donald Trump in his announcement of U.S. withdrawal from the Paris Agreement on June 1, 2017, also criticized the Green Climate Fund, calling it a scheme to redistribute wealth from rich to poor countries.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>The EU does not provide direct funding to the GCF, this figure is an aggregate of all EU members' contributions.\n\nThe process of designing the GCF has raised several issues. These include ongoing questions on how funds will be raised, the role of the private sector, the level of \"country ownership\" of resources, and the transparency of the Board itself. In addition, questions have been raised about the need for yet another new international climate institution which may further fragment public dollars that are put toward mitigation and adaptation annually.\n\nThe Fund is also pledged to offer \"balanced\" support to adaptation and mitigation, although there is some concern amongst developing countries that inadequate adaptation financing will be offered, in particular if the fund is reliant on \"leveraging\" private sector finance.\n\nThe Fund's initial investments have met with mixed responses. The Fund's former director Héla Cheikhrouhou has complained that the Fund is backing too many \"business-as-usual types of investment proposals\", a view echoed by a number of civil society organizations. But in at least one case it also drew praise for involving local communities in the formulation of an adaptation project, and for incorporating consumer protection into a plan for off-grid solar energy.\n\nWhile it is relatively easy to tell what a mitigation project or programme is (i.e. its contribution to the reduction of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, and/or whether it increases the capacity of an ecosystem to absorb them), the blurred line between a general development project and an adaptation project has been a contentious issue in the international climate finance debate, including at Green Climate Fund Board meetings, according to a report by the Climate and Development Knowledge Network.\n\nThe relevant question is not whether a project is (also) a development project, but whether the project contributes to adaptation (i.e. what the adaptation/additionality argument is). Cross- cutting projects that deliver co-benefits in terms of both mitigation and adaptation are also eligible for funding.\n\nOne of the most controversial aspects of the GCF concerns the creation of the Fund's Private Sector Facility (PSF). Many of the developed countries represented on the GCF board advocate a PSF that appeals to capital markets, in particular the pension funds and other institutional investors that control trillions of dollars that pass through Wall Street and other financial centers. They hope that the Fund will ultimately use a broad range of financial instruments.\n\nHowever, several developing countries and non-governmental organizations have suggested that the PSF should focus on \"pro-poor climate finance\" that addresses the difficulties faced by micro-, small-, and medium-sized enterprises in developing countries. This emphasis on encouraging the domestic private sector is also written into the GCF's Governing Instrument, its founding document.\n\nThe Cancun agreements clearly specify that the funds provided to the developing countries as climate finance, including through the GCF, should be \"new\" and \"additional\" to existing development aid. The condition of funds having to be new means that pledges should come on top of those made in previous years. As far as additionality is concerned, there is no strict definition of this term, which has already led to serious problems in evaluating the additionality of emission reductions through CDM-projects, leading to counter-productivity, and even fraud. While climate finance usually only counts pledges from developed countries, the US$10.3 billion pledged to the GCF also includes some (relatively small) contributions from developing countries.\n\nUsing the money in the right way in order to enforce actual change on the ground is one of the biggest challenges ahead. Many academics argue that, in order to do this in an efficient way, all stakeholders should be involved in the process, instead of using a top-down approach. They point to that fact that, without their input, it is harder to achieve targets set. Moreover, projects often even miss out on their actual purpose. A group of researchers associated with the Australian National University, call for the foundation of so-called \"National Implementing Entities\" (NIE) in each country, that would become responsible for \"the implementation of sub-national projects\". This would avoid national governments getting too involved, because in the past, they \"often hindered the flow of international support to subnational scale reform for sustainable development\".\nOverall, this view on the need for more stakeholder involvement can be framed within the movement in environmental governance calling for a shift from traditional ways of government to governance. The Climate & Development Knowledge Network is funding a research project that aims to help the GCF Board, by analysing how best to allocate resources among countries. The project will research and present four case studies of how federal or central government money is presently distributed to sub-national entities. Chosen for the diversity in their underlying political systems, these are: China, India, Switzerland, and the USA.\n\nAt its board meeting in South Korea held in March 2015, the GCF refused an explicit ban on fossil fuel projects. Japan, China, and Saudi Arabia opposed the ban.\n\nList :\n\n"}
{"id": "9137549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9137549", "title": "Human rights in Cyprus", "text": "Human rights in Cyprus\n\nHuman rights in Cyprus are protected by the constitution of the Republic of Cyprus. However, there have been reports of violations of the human rights of minorities, democratic freedom, rights of detainees, freedom of religion, rights of women, freedom of press and the freedom of speech.\n\nIn a number of cases, the European Court of Human Rights has found Turkey responsible for continuous violations of the European Convention on Human Rights in the Republic of Cyprus as a result of the Turkish Invasion in 1974 and continuous occupation of 37% of its territory. Regarding human rights in the areas under the effective control of the Republic of Cyprus, according to the 2010 US Department of State human rights report, there were reports of police abuse and degrading treatment of persons in custody and asylum seekers, as well as instances of discrimination and violence against members of minority ethnic and national groups. Trafficking of women to the island, particularly for sexual exploitation was reportedly a problem. Several instances of violence against women and children were also reported.\n\nFreedom House classified the perceived level of democratic and political freedom in Cyprus as \"free\" in 2011 in its \"Freedom in the World\" report. The US Department of State reported in 2010 that the recent elections were free and fair.\n\nIbrahim Aziz, who was prevented from voting in the elections, applied to the European Court of Human Rights. In 2004, in the case of Aziz v. Cyprus, the ECHR ruled that his right to vote was denied. After this case, the right to vote was given to the Turkish Cypriots residing in the Republic of Cyprus. However, Turkish Cypriots still cannot run in presidential elections and the Turkish Cypriots which reside in Northern Cyprus cannot vote in elections, even though they are citizens of the Republic of Cyprus.\n\nUS Department of State reported in 2010 that there were instances of discrimination and violence against members of minority ethnic and national groups. Minority Rights Group International reported in 2011 that minorities in Cyprus faced serious discrimination and they were excluded from policital activity. The US Department of State report in 2005 stated that discrimination against Turkish Cypriots and Roma were problems. There has been some mistreatments to the Turkish Cypriots visiting the area controlled by the Republic of Cyprus.\n\nThe US Department of State report about human rights in Cyprus in 2002 said that:\n\"Some of the approximately 300 Turkish Cypriots living in the government-controlled area faced difficulties in obtaining identification cards and other government documents, especially if they were born after 1974. Turkish Cypriots also appeared to be subjected to surveillance by the Greek Cypriot police.\"\n\nHowever, according to the Interior Minister Neoclis Sylikiotis in an interview to Turkish-Cypriot newspaper Kıbrıs in 2011, 93,308 Turkish Cypriots already have ID cards, 58,069 Turkish Cypriots hold Cypriot passports of which 7,376 are biometric.\n\nAlthough the prisons generally meet international standards, there has been reports that often state that the prisons are overcrowded. There has been reports that the police had phsiycally abused detainees and had discriminated them. Some non-governmental organizations reported that foreign detainees complained that they had been subjected to physical violence.\n\nIn 2008, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Cyprus decided that the police had restricted Andreas Constantinou's access to legal aid. Also, in 2008, the ECHR said that \"a question arises as to the conformity of such legislation with the requirements of Article 6 of the Convention [...] there is a priori no reason why it should not be made available in spheres other than criminal law.\"\n\nIn the case of Panovits v. Cyprus in 2009, the ECHR ruled that:\n\"In these circumstances, the Court concludes that the Assize Court’s handling of the confrontation with the applicant’s defence counsel rendered the trial unfair. It follows that there has been a violation of Article 6 § 1 in this respect.\"\n\nIn 2005, 25 cases by Turkish Cypriots were filed in the courts of the Republic of Cyprus, stating that they did not have access to their properties in the Republic of Cyprus-controlled areas.\n\nThe US Department of State reported in 2010 that freedom of religion was generally respected by the government. The government conserves the mosques. Although there are 17 mosques in the Republic of Cyprus-controlled area, only five of them are in public use.\n\nIn November 2005 the Ombudsman's Office issued a report on a complaint from Jehovah's Witnesses whose child was excused from religious instruction but who was subsequently harassed by fellow students and pressured by a religious instructor. The report concluded that the student's complaint was valid and that the instructor's remarks during a lesson on religious sects violated the student's religious freedom. Also, in November 2005 press reports said that the police and the municipality had harassed the Buddhist temple in Strovolos.\n\nNicos Trimikliniotis and Corina Demetriou noted that:\n\"‘Religious’ discrimination is not exhausted there, however, as the treatment of Jehovah Witness conscientious objectors refusing to serve in the military illustrate.\"\n\nThere is currently no school for Turkish Cypriots living in the Republic of Cyprus-controlled areas. Maronites have an elementary school, but no secondary school, and Antonis Hadjiroussos underlines the danger of assimilation of Maronites to the Greek Cypriot community because of this.\n\nLaws prohibit rape and spousal rape in the Republic of Cyprus. There has been a sharp increase in the number of these crimes in the 2000s. Although sexual harassment in the workplace is prohibited, it is a widespread problem, but only few cases are reported to the authorities.\n\nIn 1996, the UN Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women, Concluding Observations noted that women were not represented in political life much, they were absent from higher levels of the government, the trafficking of women and their sexual exploitation was against human rights, there was sexual harassment in the workplace, and women were not paid equal money for work of equal value.\n\nThe committee also said:\n\"The Committee exhorts the Government to extend full social security coverage to self-employed rural women and to abolish existing discrimination in this respect between married and unmarried women. The Committee urges the Government to implement special sensitization and training programmes in gender issues for all law enforcement officials and judges, particularly judges in family courts. The Committee strongly recommends that urgent special temporary measures be adopted, under article 4 of the Convention, with the aim of substantially increasing the presence of women in all areas of public and political life, as well as actively promoting their position in the senior management of the civil service and in the diplomatic service. The Committee urges the Government to explore the proposal of non-governmental organizations to establish an equal opportunities commission to deal with complaints by women and to serve in a mediatory capacity.\"\n\nIn 2006, the same committee expressed their concern about discrimination against women migrants, including domestic helpers and agricultural workers, lower number of women which have the PhD degree when compared with men, and \"the lack of a comprehensive and systematic approach to gender equality policies\".\n\nA US Department of State report in 2010 stated that: \n\"On January 7, the ECHR ruled in Rantsev v. Cyprus and Russia that Cyprus failed to protect 20-year-old Russian cabaret artist Oxana Rantseva from human trafficking and failed to conduct an effective investigation into the circumstances of her death in 2001.\"\n\nIn 2010, the US Department of State reported that the law provided for freedom of speech and of the press, and the government generally respected these rights in practice. The UNHCR also reported in 2006 that the freedom of press was generally respected, and independent press often criticized the authorities. On 18 July 2005, the police used excessive force against demonstrators and journalists at a picket by striking lorry drivers.\n\nIn 2004, the media was stifled by the government of the Republic of Cyprus to broadcast programmes against the Annan Plan for Cyprus. European Commissioner Günter Verheugen was refused to air-time on any Greek Cypriot TV channel because if he was not refused, he would present arguments supporting the plan.\n\nIn 2007, then President Tassos Papadopoulos \"personally intervened\" to force the dismissal of the press attaché at the Cyprus High Commission in London, Soteris Georgallis, because he had attended to a book presentation which was addressed by a critic of Papadopoulos, Takis Hadjidemetriou. Kyriakos Pierides reported in 2007 that the \"pro-government political and commercial pressures are a constant factor inhibiting the work of the media there\".\n\nIn 2008, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, in a report written by the Turkish Cypriot Human Rights Foundation and the Turkish Cypriot Journalists’ Union reported that the government of the Republic of Cyprus were violating the rights of Turkish Cypriots on the freedom of press. It added that the change in Cyprus Broadcasting Corporation's broadcasting frequency prevented many Turkish Cypriot TV channels broadcasting in Northern Cyprus, thus violating the freedom of the speech.\n\nThe World Press Freedom Index ranked Cyprus 45 in 2007, 31 in 2008, 25 in 2009, and ranked it back down to 45 in 2010. In 2016 it was ranked 27th.\n\nProstitution is rife in Cyprus, and the island has been criticized for its role in the sex trade as one of the main routes of human trafficking from Eastern Europe.\n\nIn May 2011, the UN Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights said that rejected asylum-seekers were kept for too long in detention and inconvenient conditions. In May 2005, the KISA accused the police of violating the law and the human rights of asylum seekers by carrying out illegal arrests, detentions, and deportations. Another non-governmental organization (NGO) reported in 2005 that the police deported long term residents, as long as 11 years.\n\nA large number of Romanian nationals were subjected to forced labor in the country in 2009. In August 2009 the UNHCR complained through the media that a Kurdish child suffering from a terminal congenital condition was denied government funding to travel abroad for medical treatment because of his refugee status, in contravention of the country's refugee law, which provides refugees access to the same medical treatment as Cypriots and other EU citizens. detention by occupying the water-tank tower of the prison in Nicosia and a hunger strike in Limassol.\n\nHomosexuality was decriminalized in 1998 after the case of \"Modinos v. Cyprus\" of the European Court of Human Rights, but the Cyprus military still bars homosexuals from serving on the grounds that homosexuality is a mental illness; gay sexual conduct remains a crime under military law; the term is 6 months in a military jail although this is rarely, if ever, enforced.\n\nIn a number of cases, the European Court of Human Rights has found Turkey responsible for continuous violations of the European Convention on Human Rights in the Republic of Cyprus as a result of the Turkish Invasion in 1974 and continuous occupation of 37% of its territory. In particular, in the 2011 landmark case of Cyprus v. Turkey the court ruled that there had been 14 violations of the European Convention on Human Rights by Turkey:\n\n\nIn 2011, in its annual report, the UN Commission on Human Rights has reiterated is calls for the full restoration of all human rights to the population of Cyprus, in particular to refugees, called for the tracing of and accounting for missing persons in Cyprus without any further delay, and called for the restoration and respect of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of all Cypriots, including freedom of movement, the freedom of settlement and the right to property.\n\nThe constant focus on the division of the island sometimes masks other human rights issues. In 2005, Bulgarian citizens living in Northern Cyprus were not allowed to pass the Green Line and vote in Bulgarian elections.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37696514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37696514", "title": "International School of Protocol and Diplomacy", "text": "International School of Protocol and Diplomacy\n\nISPD Group is an organisation born out of the need for an academic institution that prepares and certifies professionals in the fields of International Procedures, Corporate & Soft Diplomacy, Business Protocol, Security and Cross Cultural Intelligence. Since 2008, ISPD has grown into a company which currently owns 6 brands: Innovation in Diplomacy, Protocol and Diplomacy, Security & Governance, Impact, Certification & Licenses and Skills. Each brand was developed to deliver a value to a specific audience in the most accurate way possible. \n\nThe company's headquarters are located in Brussels, Belgium. In addition, ISPD has branch offices in Lisbon, Portugal; Muscat, Oman; Hong-Kong; Mauritius, East Africa. \n\nISPD’s primary language of instruction is English, but it also provides lectures on other languages on demand. Its method of teaching is based on both face2face training and online learning platform for students in distant parts of the world.\n\nISPD has delivered tailor made training projects around the world for Expo2020 Dubai/UAE, Umicore, EU Agency Frontex, Abu Dhabi Crowne Prince Court, ICD (Institute of Capacity Development) of Diwan of Royal Court (Oman), DG (Deutschsprachige Gemeinschaft der Belgier), OBF (Oman Business Forum), OSCE, European Commission, European Parliament, ECHA (European Chemistry Agency), ESMA (European Security & Markets Authority), Teneo Cabinet DN, G4S, Umicore, Oman Aviation Services and many others. \n\nWithin the last 9 years, ISPD has gathered the professional team of experts in the fields of international relations, procedures, and conventions, such as the former European Union Ambassador to the Holy See, the former Chief of Protocol of the European Commission, the former Chief of Protocol of the United Nations, the former Belgian Ambassador to China, the Head of Protocol of the European Parliament, the Deputy Head of Protocol of the Austrian Federal Chancellery, the Deputy Head of Communications of the UN, the former Chief of Royal Protocol of Queen Beatrix of The Netherlands, the Head of Information at the International Criminal Court, the Head of Security and Environment Department at Portuguese Navy General Inspection, the former Protocol Director of the Ministry of Defence of Belgium, the Head of Protocol of the FISU, the Senior Advisor of Protocol at the Chamber of Representatives of Belgium, the Senior Advisor of the Press Club in Brussels, among many other experts from the field of Interfaith Dialogue, Conflict Resolution, Public Diplomacy, Soft Diplomacy Skills, Military Protocol, Politician Intelligence, Sports Protocol, Negotiation Skills, Cross Cultural Awareness, Media Relations, Strategic Communication and Cross Cultural Communication. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "6874534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6874534", "title": "Irmino", "text": "Irmino\n\nІrmino (, ) is a city in Stakhanov Municipality, Luhansk Oblast (region) of Ukraine. Population: . From 1977 to 2010 the city was named Teplohirsk.\n\nSince 2014, Irmino has been controlled by forces of the Luhansk People's Republic and not by Ukrainian authorities.\n"}
{"id": "43726112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43726112", "title": "Jihadism and hip hop", "text": "Jihadism and hip hop\n\nWhile many Islamist jihadists view hip-hop negatively, due to its Western origins, there have also been examples of hip-hop songs with pro-jihadist lyrics, and of jihadists embracing hip-hop and gangsta culture as a way of attracting Westerners to join their organizations. The phenomenon is sometimes known as \"Jihad Cool\" and includes music, clothing, magazine, videos and other media.\n\nGerman rapper Deso Dogg later took the names Abu Talha al-Almani and Abou Maleeq, and joined ISIL in 2014.\n\nBritish-born Abdel-Majed Abdel Bary rapped under the name L Jinny, is the son of Egyptian militant Adel Abdel Bari, and was reportedly videotaped beheading journalist James Foley. Jinny once Tweeted a photo of himself holding a man's severed head, with the words \"Chillin' with my homie or what's left of him.\" These rappers, in turn, have inspired other jihadist activities; one young Kosovar was reportedly inspired by Deso Dogg's lyrics to fire at an American military bus in Frankfurt.\n\nDouglas McCain was an aspiring rapper and basketball player who was killed while fighting for ISIL in 2014. His classmates described him as a \"goofball\" who \"got along with most\", while a coworker referred to him as a \"normal guy\".\n\nISIL, in particular, has used social media in attempts to reach young people, many of whom do not necessarily have any Muslim background at all. Two young British jihadists who travelled to Syria to join ISIL reportedly learned everything they knew about Islam from reading the book \"Islam for Dummies\". As a result, many of recruits are believed not to be motivated by Islam as such, but rather by a combination of anger (either feeling oppressed themselves, or wanting to fight on behalf of the oppressed) and the desire for fame and glory. They end up turning to ISIL and jihadism as an outlet for these feelings.\n\nAnthropologist Scott Atran argues that the phenomenon results from a search for \"sacred values\" and what Edmund Burke called \"the sublime\"; a \"quest for greatness, glory, eternal meaning in an inherently chaotic world\". Amir Khan has cited Douglas McCain as yet another example of this phenomenon, and said that both Islamism and gangsta rap foster a \"sense of grievance towards wider society\" and \"focus on vengeance and fetishize violence as a way of redressing the balance\". Khan says that while researching young Islamists in London, he found that they looked to the works of 50 Cent and Tupac Shakur for inspiration. Khan argues that what sets ISIL apart from other jihadist groups, and makes it far more dangerous as a result, is its ability to harness hip-hop to \"bestow on its struggle a counter-culture sense of subversive 'cool' that mainstream political parties and even commercial brands might envy.\" ISIL's marketing methods and overall strategies are also reminiscent of those used by street gangs.\n\nHisham Aidi has written a book, \"Rebel Music: Race, Empire, and the New Muslim Youth Culture\" describing the phenomenon of Islamist hip-hop, but Aidi also mentions that the United States and other Western governments have attempted to use hip-hop and Sufi music to \"fight\" terrorism by deradicalizing young Muslims. One American rapper, Omar Hamaami, who later joined al-Shabaab, released a song with the lyrics \"Bomb by bomb, blast by blast, only going to bring back the glorious past.\"\n\nThe phenomenon of jihadi rap has been around since at least 2004, when the song \"Dirty Kuffar\" was released. In 2006, Aki Nawaz of the group Fun-Da-Mental released an album with lyrics comparing Osama bin Laden to Che Guevara and depicting the Statue of Liberty as an abu Ghraib prisoner.\n\n"}
{"id": "1657072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1657072", "title": "John George II, Elector of Saxony", "text": "John George II, Elector of Saxony\n\nJohann George II (31 May 1613 – 22 August 1680) was the Elector of Saxony from 1656 to 1680. He belonged to the Albertine line of the House of Wettin.\n\nHe was the third (fourth in order of birth) but eldest surviving son of the Elector Johann George I, Elector of Saxony and Magdalene Sybille of Prussia, his second spouse. He succeeded his father as Elector of Saxony when John George I died on 8 October 1656.\n\nIn 1657 John George made an arrangement with his three brothers with the object of preventing disputes over their separate territories, and in 1664 he entered into friendly relations with Louis XIV. He received money from the French king, but the existence of a strong anti-French party in Saxony induced him occasionally to respond to the overtures of the emperor Leopold I.\nThe elector's primary interests were not in politics, but in music and art. He adorned Dresden, which under him became the musical centre of Germany; welcoming foreign musicians and others he gathered around him a large and splendid court, and his capital was the constant scene of musical and other festivals. He commissioned the building of the first opera house, the Opernhaus am Taschenberg.\n\nIn 1658 John George was accepted into the Fruitbearing Society, through the patronage of Duke William of Saxe-Weimar.\n\nHis enormous expenditure on the arts compelled John George in 1661 to grant greater control over monetary matters to the estates, a step which laid the foundation of the later system of finance in Saxony. Also, his government was less effective in establishing absolutist rule and a standing army than were Bohemia or Prussia.\n\nJohn George's reign saw the slow economic reconstruction of Saxony after the Thirty Years' War. New trades and manufactures developed, such as textiles, hard coal and glass. Locally mined silver filled the Electorate's empty treasury, and the Leipzig Trade Fair and the Bohemian \"Exulanten\" of 1654 also stimulated economic activity.\n\nJohn George died in Freiberg on 22 August 1680.\n\nIn Dresden on 13 November 1638 John George married Magdalene Sibylle of Brandenburg-Bayreuth. They had three children:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1799918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1799918", "title": "LGBT rights in the Republic of the Congo", "text": "LGBT rights in the Republic of the Congo\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) persons in the Republic of the Congo may face legal challenges not experienced by non-LGBT residents. Both male and female same-sex sexual activity is legal in the Republic of the Congo, but same-sex couples and households headed by same-sex couples are not eligible for the same legal protections available to opposite-sex couples.\n\nSame-sex sexual acts are legal. These acts never have been criminalised. The age of consent is unequal.\n\nThere is no legal recognition of same-sex unions.\n\nThere is no legal protection against discrimination based on sexual orientation.\nThey have been reported discrimination of small local groups fighting for human right and freedom.\nLGBT people have been abused but the local people, arrested by police mostly in the east part of the country,\nhave been reported to be running for their life in nearby countries.\n\nThe U.S. Department of State's 2010 Human Rights Report found that \"there was not a large openly gay or lesbian community due to the social stigma associated with homosexuality\" and that \"there were no known cases of violence or discrimination against gays, lesbians, or transgendered individuals during the year. While discrimination may exist due to the social stigma surrounding homosexuality, no such cases were reported to the NGOs or covered by the media.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "47754149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47754149", "title": "Lippeverband", "text": "Lippeverband\n\nThe Lippeverband is a public German water board (“Wasserwirtschaftsverband”) located in Dortmund (North Rhine-Westphalia/Germany) and responsible for 3.280 km² of the Lippe catchment from Lippborg down to the river Rhine with 1.4 Mio. citizens. The main tasks are wastewater discharge and treatment, flood protection, groundwater management, settlement of claims caused by hard coal mining, river restoration and protection of ecosystems.\n\nThe river Lippe appears as a two-tier water course: Upstream, eastward of the city of Hamm/Lippborg, the catchment is more rural. Downstream of Hamm settlements and industrial impacts characterize the situation. Preconditions for the industrialization started with the construction of the Cologne-Minden trunk line in the 1840s that connected the river Rhine settlements like Cologne with harbours and trade at the river Weser and on this route with Lippe towns, too. Moreover, this railway supported the coal and steel industry development in the whole northern Ruhr region. The hard coal mining that started in the middle of the 19th century in the Emscher catchment area developed in the following decades direction north. In the Lippe catchment area from the 1860s on first problems from mining subsidence and drainage of polluted water appeared. Villages and towns located at the Lippe and its tributary Seseke (Werl, Unna, Hamm, Bönen, Kamen, Bergkamen, Lünen and Dortmund) expanded quickly with the establishing of hard coal mines between 1856 and World War I. The industrialization caused huge water quality problems in the Lippe, its tributaries and the settlements; therefore first in 1913 the Sesekegenossenschaft and later in 1926 the Lippeverband as public water boards (“Wasserwirtschaftsverbände”) were established.\n\nThe Sesekegenossenschaft was from 1913 on responsible for the water management and the precursor of the Lippeverband from 1926 on. The Lippe tributary Seseke has a catchment area of 319,45 km² and drains the towns of Werl, Unna, Bönen, Kamen, Bergkamen, Lünen and the east of Dortmund. The Seseke catchment area suffered from “subsidence funnels” where waste water, surface run-off and water from the creeks gathered and digested; so interdisciplinary solutions were needed, comparable to the Emschergenossenschaft in the neighboring catchment area which hosted the Sesekegenossenschaft in the first years. The municipalities were responsible for the inner city drainage systems and interconnection points were jointly defined where the Sesekegenossenschaft took over responsibility. Those were normally the subcatchment parts where underground sewer systems were impossible as the mining subsidence would have caused damages continuously and waste water would have infiltrated in groundwater and soil. The Sesekegenossenschaft (and later the Lippeverband) then worked on the drainage capacity by cutting the meanders of the water courses, deepening the runways and lining them with concrete, constructing dykes and pumping stations and establishing waste water treatment plants. All discharge from industry, mines and households as well as rain, surface water and natural discharge were collected and drained in these new “concrete streams”. All costs were divided between the “users” of the Seseke system, depending on the volume and load of waste water or drainage capacity or causer (for example the mining companies).\n\nGovernmental investigations showed that the measures that were taken in the Seseke system were expected to solve problems in the rest of the Lippe catchment area, too. Formally, the „Lippegesetz“ (Lippe act) was legislated on Januar 19th 1926 and the Sesekegenossenschaft merged into the new water board.\n\nMore and more measures had to be taken to compensate negative impacts of the mining that went in northern direction and caused damages in the Lippe catchment area between Hamm and the Lippe mouth at the river Rhine near Wesel. Dykes were built for flood prevention, waste water treatment facilities and pumping stations kept the systems running.\n\nUntil the 1970s water pollution played no important role in the public debate but environmental policy changed over the decades. Environmental standards on national level and especially from the EU have been leading to enormous efforts to improve the nature standards and today a couple of positive developments can be stated, like new FFH (Flora Fauna Habitat) sites and governmental initiatives around the WFD (Water Framework Directive).\n\nEspecially the sub catchment of the Seseke has experienced enormous efforts to restore the system. Since the 1960s, the coal crisis was leading to the shutdown of more and more mines and the Lippeverband with its administrative, political and industrial members decided to re-develop the Seseke system towards „second hand nature“ – a real restoration compared to the times before industrialization is impossible. Between the 1980s and 2012 four waste water treatment plants were constructed in Bönen, Kamen, Dortmund-Scharnhorst and Lünen. A new 75 km underground sewer system was constructed and 73 km of former “concrete water courses” were restored to work as ecological green belts in the landscape now.\n\nChallenges for the Lippeverband are still the water quality demands. Though the Lippeverband is not a drinking water provider there are water bodies in the catchment area that are used by Gelsenwasser for drinking water supply and where Lippeverband waste water treatment plants are discharging to. The Lippeverband started operating first treatment facilities voluntarily with advanced technologies and initiated European network projects on the environmental impact of pharmaceuticals and personal care products and how to eliminate them from hospitals or domestic waste water.\n\nFurther initiatives deal with the impacts of climate change. Moreover, artists and landscape architects are involved in projects to capitalize the newly developed ecological and leisure qualities, for example in the frame of the cultural events of Ruhr.2010 or “Über Wasser gehen” (“walking on water”), a joint initiative of the cities Lünen, Bergkamen, Kamen, Bönen, Unna, Dortmund, the district Unna, the regional planning assembly Ruhr and the “Urbane Künste Ruhr”.\n\nThe Lippeverband is not “owner” of the river Lippe which is in the German hierarchy a “water course first level”. These are historically often the rivers that (once) have been used for shipping and therefore are state-owned asset, in this case under protection of the state of North Rhine-Westphalia. The environment ministry is financing all nature related activities the Lippeverband is carrying out at the river Lippe directly. The work related to tributaries, waste water management and man-made impact has to be financed by the municipalities, businesses, industry and mining companies etc., operationally carried out by the Lippeverband.\n\nResponsibilities and tasks of the Lippeverband are defined in the act „Lippegesetz“, enacted January 16, 1926 and adapted later as „Gesetz über den Lippeverband“ (LippeVG):\n\n\nDrinking water supply and Lippe river management is carried out in cooperation with the Wasserverband Westdeutsche Kanäle. The Lippeverband is working in an administrative collectivity with the Emschergenossenschaft, the water board established in 1899 in a neighbouring river catchment area. Together, more than 1.500 employees work for both water boards, around 600 of them belong to the Lippeverband. Both water boards together are the biggest water management and service provider in Germany.\n\nThe North Rhine-Westphalian water boards are statutory bodies, working in public-private partnership as non-profit institutions.\n\nThe Lippeverband, together with the Emschergenossenschaft, has an administration that is governed by a board of 3 managing directors, elected for 5 years each. The election happens on the level of associates that have representatives in an annual assembly,coming from\n\n\nThe number of representatives per member depends on the number of citizens in the 45 municipalities and on the volume of waste water “produced” by the companies and mines.\n\nThe supervisory authority is the Ministry for Climate Protection, Environment, Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Protection of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia (MKULNV). German water boards are not formal authorities but have to receive permissions and approvals for construction works etc. They are independent in financial and internal management but depend on regulatory decrees regarding water acts.\n\nThe river Lippe with a length of in total 220 km is only managed over a stretch of 147 km between Lippborg and Wesel (approx. 3.280 km² of 4.890 km² catchment area) by the Lippeverband.\n\nWith an amendment of the Lippeverband act (LippeVG) in 1990 the responsibilities have been extended to smaller catchment areas of tributaries to the Rhine close to the Lippemouth (Mommbach, Stollbach, Langhorster Leitgraben, Lohberger Entwässerungsgraben, Bruckhauser Mühlenbach, Rotbach). Moreover, due to the migration of the hard coal mining to the north, responsibilities for potential impact and compensation were given to the Lippeverband in the mining reserve areas of the municipalities Ahlen, Ascheberg, Beckum, Drensteinfurt, Ennigerloh, Raesfeld and Sendenhorst.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "63578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63578", "title": "List of designated terrorist groups", "text": "List of designated terrorist groups\n\nThis is a list of designated terrorist groups by national governments, former governments, and inter-governmental organizations, where the proscription has a significant effect on the group's activities. Many organizations that are accused of being a terrorist organization deny using terrorism as a military tactic to achieve their goals, and there is no international consensus on the legal definition of terrorism. Some organisations have multiple wings or components, one or more of which may be designated as terrorist while others are not.\n\nThis listing does not include unaffiliated individuals accused of terrorism, which are considered under lone wolf terrorism. This list also excludes groups which might be widely considered terrorist, but who are not officially so designated according to the criteria specified above.\n\nThis list is not all inclusive. For more inclusive lists, including people, entities (corporations), and specific vehicles, refer to lists under \"Process of designation\".\n\nThe list includes references to organisations \"associated with Al-Qaeda\" by the United Nations.\n\nBelow is the list of organizations that have officially been designated as terrorist in the past, by the respective parties, but have since been delisted. \nAmong the countries that publish a list of designated terrorist organizations, some have a clear established procedure for listing and delisting, and some are opaque. The Berghof Foundation argues that opaque delisting conditions reduce the incentive for the organization to abandon terrorism, while fuelling radicalism.\n\nSince 2002, the Australian Government maintains a list of terrorist organizations under the \"Security Legislation Amendment (Terrorism) Act 2002\". Listing, de-listing and re-listing follows a protocol that mainly involves the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation and the Attorney-General's Department.\n\nSince December 18, 2001, section 83.05 of the Canadian \"Criminal Code\" allows the Governor in Council to maintain a list of entities that are engaged in terrorism, facilitating it, or acting on behalf of such an entity.\n\nEntities are reviewed by the Minister and the Chief Justice of the Federal Court, and finally published in the Canada Gazette. The list is also published on the website of Public Safety Canada.\n\nThe European Union has two lists of designated terrorist organisations that provide for different sanctions for the two groups. The first list is copied from the United Nations, and the second is an autonomous list.\n\nAll other designated organizations.\n\nIt is important to note that sanctions are only applicable to EU-external groups regardless of designation. For example, 47 groups are listed as terrorist organizations in the EU but sanctions are only applied to 27 of these. Member States do have an obligation to assist each other in preventing and combating terrorist acts but this is the only action that follows from the designation of an EU-internal organization. \n\nNew organizations are added to the autonomous list following this process:\n\nThe EU has similar process to review the list, and to remove organizations for the list.\n\nUnder the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, the Ministry of Home Affairs maintains a list of banned organizations: List of organisations banned by the Government of India.\n\n\nIn Myanmar (formerly \"Burma\"), the \"Anti-Terrorism Central Committee\" is responsible for designating terrorist organisations in accordance with the country's counter-terrorism law. Designations must be approved by the union government before being official. The only group on Myanmar's terror list is the Arakan Rohingya Salvation Army, declared on 25 August 2017 in accordance with the counter-terrorism law.\n\nThe New Zealand Police are responsible for coordinating any requests to the Prime Minister for designation as a terrorist entity. The designation of terrorist organizations is also guided by the Terrorism Suppression Act 2002. New Zealand also abides by several United Nations resolutions dealing with counter-terrorism including UN Resolutions 1267, 1989, 2253, 1988, and 1373.\n\nThe Ministry of Public Security maintains a list of terrorist organizations on its website mps.gov.cn. This list has been translated to English by the Embassy of the People's Republic of China in the USA.\n\nThe first group to be officially listed as a terrorist organization under the Human Security Act of 2007 is the Abu Sayyaf on September 10, 2015 by the Basilan provincial court. \n\nIn December 2017, President Rodrigo Duterte reportedly issued a proclamation declaring the Communist Party of the Philippines (CPP) and its armed wing, the New People's Army (NPA), as terrorist organizations. The proclamation was made in accordance with the Human Security Act and the Terrorism Financing Prevention and Suppression Act.\n\nHistorically the CPP-NPA has been considered as an \"organized conspiracy\" by the Philippines Government. The label was placed on the CPP's predecessor, the Partido Komunista ng Pilipinas-1930 and its armed group the Hukbalahap in 20 June 1957 through the Anti Subversion Act or Republic Act No. 1700. The law covered any succeeding organizations of the PKP-1930 and the Hukbalahap which includes the CPP-NPA. Being a member of groups covered by the law is considered illegal. On October 1992, Fidel Ramos signed a law repealing the Anti-Subversion law.\n\nA single federal list of organizations recognized as terrorist is used by the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation. The National Anti-Terrorism Committee maintains a list of terrorist organizations on its website nac.gov.ru, named \"Federal United list of Terrorist Organizations\".\n\nSerbian authorities and their Yugoslav predecessors regard the Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA) as a terrorist group.\n\nIn 2015, the Islamic Renaissance Party of Tajikistan was banned in Tajikistan as a terrorist organization.\n\nIn Ukraine, the Donetsk and Luhansk People's Republics are designated as terrorist organizations. Ukrainian authorities claim that the two organizations are made up of a rigid hierarchy, financing channels and supply of weapons with the purpose of deliberately propagating violence, seizing hostages, carrying out subversive activity, assassinations, and the intimidation of citizens.\n\nThe United Nations does not have a general list of all terrorist organizations. Instead, it has several lists focusing on a particular context.\nThe UN 1267 regime list is focused on Al-Qaeda, the Taliban and their associates.\n\nThe EU provides exceptions to the implementation of relevant asset-freezing sanctions per UN resolution 1452 (2002). Upon request, a competent national authority may determine to release funds on the following grounds if, within the time limit provided for, there has been no objection made, or a release has been explicitly approved, by the UN Sanctions Committee.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "866220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=866220", "title": "Mary Cheney", "text": "Mary Cheney\n\nMary Claire Cheney (born March 14, 1969) is the second daughter of Dick Cheney, the former Vice President of the United States, and his wife, Lynne Cheney. She is politically conservative and is involved with a number of political action groups.\n\nIn 2013, she was a signatory to an amicus curiae brief submitted to the U.S. Supreme Court in support of same-sex marriage during the \"Hollingsworth v. Perry\" case.\n\nCheney was born in Madison, Wisconsin. She attended McLean High School in McLean, Virginia, graduating in the class of 1987. Following that, she attended Colorado College, her mother's alma mater, in Colorado Springs, Colorado, and graduated in 1991. She earned a graduate business degree from the University of Denver in 2002.\n\nIn 1993, she became one of the first employees of the Colorado Rockies baseball team, working in promotions when the team began playing in Denver. Thereafter, she was a public relations manager for the Coors Brewing Company, and worked as a gay outreach coordinator, helping to end a national gay boycott of Coors.\n\nShe has been one of her father's top campaign aides and closest confidantes. In July 2003, she became the Director of Vice Presidential Operations for the Bush-Cheney 2004 Presidential re-election campaign.\n\nCheney is a vice president for consumer advocacy at AOL.\n\nMary Cheney has been with her wife, Heather Poe, since 1992.\n\nCheney is openly gay, has voiced support for same-sex marriage, and has been credited with encouraging her father's approval of same-sex marriage, which he has publicly supported since leaving the vice presidency.\nIn December 2006, Cheney was reported to be pregnant; circumstances surrounding the conception were not reported. Cheney and Poe were said to be \"ecstatic\" about the baby. \"The vice president and Mrs. Cheney are looking forward with eager anticipation to the arrival of their sixth grandchild,\" spokesperson Lea Anne McBride said on December 5.\n\nOn January 31, 2007, in a forum by \"Glamour Magazine\" at Barnard College of Columbia University, Mary Cheney stated that: \"This is a baby... This is a blessing from God. It is not a political statement. It is not a prop to be used in a debate by people on either side of an issue. It is my child.\" Cheney gave birth to their first child, a son, in May 2007.\n\nCynthia Leive, the editor in chief of \"Glamour\", asked Cheney if she had anything to say to critics like James Dobson. Cheney accused Dobson of distorting the research he cited and added: \"Every piece of remotely responsible research that has been done in the last 20 years has shown there is no difference between children raised by same-sex parents and children raised by opposite-sex parents; what matters is being raised in a stable, loving environment.\" She also said that Dobson was entitled to his opinion, \"but he's not someone whose endorsement I have ever drastically sought.\"\n\nMary Cheney gave birth to her second child, a daughter, on November 18, 2009.\n\nMary Cheney married Heather Poe on June 22, 2012, in Washington, D.C.. The family resides in Great Falls, Virginia.\n\nIn 2000, the Bush-Cheney presidential campaign freely discussed Liz Cheney's marriage and children, but were silent about Mary Cheney's private life. Nevertheless, Cheney's sexual orientation was publicly known, and some considered her presence during the campaign as bolstering, providing the Republican ticket with a \"compassionate conservative\" image. During an interview with Lynne Cheney, Cokie Roberts brought up the topic of Mary Cheney's having declared herself gay. Mrs. Cheney responded by stating that \"Mary has never declared such a thing,\" and criticized Roberts and the media for their interest in the story.\n\nIn 2002, Mary Cheney joined the Republican gay-straight alliance Republican Unity Coalition and said that sexual orientation should be \"a non-issue for the Republican Party,\" with a goal of \"equality for all gay and lesbian Americans.\" Cheney resigned from the RUC's board and in July 2003 became the director of vice presidential operations for the Bush-Cheney 2004 re-election campaign.\n\nIn 2004, public attention focused again on Cheney's sexuality, when the Bush administration supported the Federal Marriage Amendment, a proposed amendment to the United States Constitution that would limit marriage to heterosexual couples and ban civil unions and domestic partnership benefits. Cheney did not publicly express her opinion of the amendment at the time. In her 2006 autobiography \"Now It's My Turn\", Cheney stated her opposition to the amendment. However, at the time, she remained silent to support Bush's re-election bid. In August 2004, Dick Cheney reiterated the position he took in the 2000 Presidential campaign: that the issue should be handled by individual state governments. He added, though, that President Bush determined his administration's policies, and his policy supported the Federal Marriage Amendment.\n\nDuring the 2004 Presidential re-election campaign for the Bush-Cheney administration, during which Cheney served as her father's director of vice presidential operations, the subject of her sexual orientation arose again.\n\nThe 2004 presidential election debates included mentions of the same-sex marriage debate and referred, initially indirectly, to Cheney. Both Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry and vice-presidential candidate John Edwards mentioned and praised Cheney's openness with regard to her sexual orientation when questioned regarding gay issues. Some commentators viewed these remarks as a gratuitous, cynical appeal to residual homophobia among blue-collar voters in key swing states.\n\nDuring the Cheney-Edwards vice-presidential debate, moderator Gwen Ifill directed a question to the Vice President in which his daughter was indirectly mentioned:\n\nDick Cheney reiterated his position of four years prior, stating the issue should be left to the states but that he supports the Bush administration. He did not mention his family nor his daughter in his immediate response to the question. In his response, Edwards said:\n\nAlthough he was given 90 seconds to respond to Edwards' comments, Dick Cheney responded succinctly, \"Well, Gwen, let me simply thank the senator for the kind words he said about my family and our daughter. I appreciate that very much.\" \nMs. Ifill followed up: \"That's it?\" The vice president replied, \"That's it,\" effectively ending the discussion of his daughter's sexual orientation. At the end of the debate, Mary Cheney appeared on the podium with her partner and the rest of the family.\n\nDuring the third and final Bush-Kerry presidential debate, moderator Bob Schieffer asked, \"Do you believe homosexuality is a choice?\" John Kerry replied, \"If you were to talk to Dick Cheney's daughter, who is a lesbian, she would tell you that she's being who she was, she's being who she was born as.\" This prompted an angry response from Dick Cheney, who stated, \"You saw a man who will say and do anything in order to get elected. And I am not just speaking as a father here, though I am a pretty angry father.\"\n\nIn 2010, Mary Cheney became involved in a network of politically active nonprofit organizations. The network is illustrated in this reference: According to tax forms filed with the Internal Revenue Service, Cheney is a member of the BKM Strategies consulting firm. In 2010, Cheney and two other Republican consultants, Barry Bennett and Kara Ahern, started two nonprofits in the office of BKM Strategies: The Alliance for Freedom and the Alliance for America's Future. In the same year, Cheney and Kara Ahern established a super PAC, Partnership for America's Future, which is not currently active.\n\nIn 2014, Cheney's consulting firm BKM Strategies was apparently responsible for a writing campaign in support of the controversial Keystone XL pipeline. Of the nearly 125,000 comments filed with the State Department, at least 98,000 contained similar pro-pipeline language and came from individuals listing BKM Strategies as the originating organization, according to the nonprofit Sunlight Foundation.\n\nMary Cheney left the public spotlight after the 2004 election until May 4, 2006, when she was interviewed by Diane Sawyer for ABC News' \"Primetime\" program to promote her autobiography, \"Now It's My Turn\". In the book, published in 2006, Cheney discusses how she came out to her parents, recounting her father's initial reaction: \"You know, look, you're my daughter and I love you and I just want you to be happy.\" She also discusses her relationship with her partner, Heather Poe.\n\nGay rights advocates criticized her for waiting until after the 2004 election to voice her disapproval of the Bush administration's positions on gay rights. During another appearance by Cheney on May 19, 2006, on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\", Letterman brought up some of the issues raised by the gay community. He asked Cheney why she had waited two years after the 2004 election to speak publicly about gay marriage and rights, and asked whether she had any input with the Bush administration regarding gay issues. Cheney responded that she did not, and that it had not been her job to do so.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19354129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19354129", "title": "Midwest Political Science Association", "text": "Midwest Political Science Association\n\nThe Midwest Political Science Association (MPSA) is a professional association of political science scholars and students in the United States. It was founded in 1939, and publishes the \"American Journal of Political Science\" in conjunction with Rice University.\n\nIn April of each year, the MPSA holds one of the largest political science conferences in the United States. In 2013, more than 5,700 presenters presented almost 4,700 papers at the conference. Traditionally, the MPSA Conference is held in Chicago, Illinois at the historic Palmer House Hilton.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31252681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31252681", "title": "Ministry of Health, Labour and Social Affairs of Georgia", "text": "Ministry of Health, Labour and Social Affairs of Georgia\n\nThe Ministry of Internally Displaced Persons from the Occupied Territories, Labour, Health and Social Affairs of Georgia (, \"sakartvelos okupirebuli teritoriebidan idzulebit gadaadgilebul pirta, shromis, janmrtelobisa da sotsialuri datsvis saministro\") is a governmental agency within the Cabinet of Georgia in charge of regulating the healthcare system, labor and IDP issues and social security system in Georgia. Since 25 October 2012, the ministry is headed by David Sergeenko.\n\nThe ministry is headed by minister appointed by the Prime Minister of Georgia. One first deputy minister and three deputies report directly to the minister. The ministry is made up from 16 departments and agencies. Main functions of the ministry are ensuring provision of good medical and public health services to the population; regulation of medical and pharmaceutical activity in the country; management of state pensions, social security; protection of rights of children.\nThe ministry has all the power to regulate all medical activities throughout the country through its chapters. The State United Social Insurance Fund and the Ministry of Finance of Georgia are the main sources of funding for the Ministry of Health, Labor and Social Affairs.\nIn recent years, the ministry carried out an expansion of hospitals network by planned completion of 46 new hospitals by the end of 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1560162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1560162", "title": "Mordecai Meisel", "text": "Mordecai Meisel\n\nMordecai Marcus Meisel (Mordechaj Marek or Miška Marek Meisel (Majzel) in Czech) (1528, Prague–March 13, 1601, Prague) was a philanthropist and communal leader in Prague; his father was Samuel Meisel.\n\nThe persecution of the Jews of Prague by the fanatical Ferdinand I occurred while Mordecai was a youth. In 1542 and 1561 his family, with the other Jewish inhabitants, was forced to leave the city, though only for a time. The source of the great wealth which subsequently enabled him to become the benefactor of his coreligionists and to aid the Austrian imperial house, especially during the Turkish wars, is unknown. He is mentioned in documents for the first time in 1569, as having business relations with the communal director Isaac Rofe (Lékarz), subsequently his father-in-law. His first wife, Eva, who died before 1580, built with him the Jewish Town Hall in Prague, which is still standing and serves toda as the headquarters of the Czech Jewish Community, as well as the neighboring High Synagogue, where the Jewish court sat. With his second wife, Frummet, he built (1590–92) the Maisel Synagogue, which was much admired by the Jews of the time, being, next to the Altneusynagoge, the metropolitan synagogue of the city; it still bears his name. The costly golden and silver vessels with which he and his wife furnished this building either were lost during the lawsuit over his estate or were burned during the conflagrations in the ghetto in 1689 (June 21) and 1754 (May 16). The only gifts dedicated by Meisel and his wife to this synagogue that have been preserved are a curtain (\"paroket\") embroidered with hundreds of pearls, a similarly adorned wrapper for the scroll of the Law, and a magnificent bronze ornament for the \"almemar\". Jacob Segre, rabbi of Casale Monferrato, celebrated the dedication of the synagogue in a poem which is still extant, and his contemporary David Gans, the chronicler of Prague, has described in his \"Tzemach Dawid\" the enthusiasm with which the Jewish population received the gift.\n\nMeisel went on to build quarters and provide housing for Jews who migrated from what is now modern-day Belarus.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1852708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1852708", "title": "Occidentalism", "text": "Occidentalism\n\nOccidentalism refers to and identifies representations of the Western world (the Occident) in two ways: (i) as dehumanizing stereotypes of the Western world, Europe, the Americas, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, and Israel, usually from the Muslim world; and (ii) as ideological representations of the West, as applied in \"Occidentalism: A Theory of Counter-Discourse in Post-Mao China\" (1995), by Chen Xiaomei; \"Occidentalism: Images of the West\" (1995), by James G. Carrier; and \"Occidentalism: The West in the Eyes of its Enemies\" (2004), Ian Buruma and Avishai Margalit. Occidentalism is often counterpart to the term orientalism as used by Edward Said in his book of that title, which refers to and identifies Western stereotypes of the Eastern world, the Orient.\n\nIn China \"Traditions Regarding Western Countries\" became a regular part of the \"Twenty-Four Histories\" from the 5th century CE, when commentary about The West concentrated upon on an area that did not extend farther than Syria. The extension of European imperialism in the 18th and 19th centuries established, represented, and defined the existence of an \"Eastern world\" and of a \"Western world\". Western stereotypes appear in works of Indian, Chinese and Japanese art of those times. At the same time, Western influence in politics, culture, economics and science came to be constructed through an imaginative geography of West and East.\n\nIn \"Occidentalism: The West in the Eyes of its Enemies\" (2004), Buruma and Margalit said that nationalist and nativist resistance to the West replicates Eastern-world responses against the socio-economic forces of modernization, which originated in Western culture, among utopian radicals and conservative nationalists who viewed capitalism, liberalism, and secularism as forces destructive of their societies and cultures. That the early responses to the West were a genuine encounter between alien cultures, many of the later manifestations of \"Occidentalism\" betray the influence of Western ideas upon Eastern intellectuals, such as the supremacy of the nation-state, the Romantic rejection of rationality, and the spiritual impoverishment of the citizenry of liberal democracies.\n\nBuruma and Margalit trace that resistance to German Romanticism and to the debates, between the Westernisers and the Slavophiles in 19th-century Russia, and that like arguments appear in the ideologies of Zionism, Maoism, Islamism, and Imperial Japanese nationalism. Nonetheless, Alastair Bonnett rejects the analyses of Buruma and Margalit as Eurocentric, and said that the field of Occidentalism emerged from the interconnection of Eastern and Western intellectual traditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23618260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23618260", "title": "Organoleptic", "text": "Organoleptic\n\nOrganoleptic properties are the aspects of food, water or other substances that an individual experiences via the senses—including taste, sight, smell, and touch.\n\nIn traditional U.S. Department of Agriculture meat and poultry inspections, inspectors perform various organoleptic procedures to detect disease or contamination. Such techniques are part of the effort to detect invisible foodborne pathogens that cause food poisoning.\n\nOrganoleptic tests are sometimes conducted to determine if food or pharmaceutical products can transfer tastes or odors to the materials and components they are packaged in. Shelf life studies often use taste, sight, and smell (in addition to food chemistry and toxicology tests) to determine whether a food product is safe to consume.\n\nOrganoleptic analyses are, occasionally, still used when the protocol for a certain sample does not have a high enough sample throughput to meet the demand. In this case, organoleptic analyses serves as a primary screen to determine which samples must be analyzed according to the original method protocol, and which samples need no further sensory analysis.\n\nMeasurements of pepper spiciness on the Scoville scale depend upon an organoleptic test. The quality of extracts used in phytotherapy is assessed in part using organoleptic tests. Organoleptic qualities are considered part of Hurdle technology. Indicators identified organoleptically as part of European Union wine regulations are assessed when qualifying for a Quality Wine indicator.\n\n"}
{"id": "28280653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28280653", "title": "Paul Grundy", "text": "Paul Grundy\n\nPaul Grundy MD, MPH, FACOEM, FACPM, known as the \"Godfather\" of the Patient Centered Medical Home, member of the Institute of Medicine and recipient of the prestigious Barbara Starfield Primary Care Leadership Award in 2016 and the 2012 National Committee for Quality Assurance(NCQA) Quality Award, is IBM's Global Director of Healthcare Transformation.\n\nIn this role, Dr. Grundy develops and executes strategies that support IBM’s healthcare-industry transformation initiatives. Part of his work is directed towards shifting healthcare delivery around the world towards consumer-focused, primary-care based systems through the adoption of new philosophies, primary-care pilot programs, new incentives systems, and the information technology required to implement such change. He is one of only 38 IBMers and the only physician selected into IBM’s senior \nindustry leadership forum known as the IBM Industry Academy.\n\nDr. Grundy is also the Founding President of the Patient Centered Primary Care Collaborative and is an Adjunct Professor, University of Utah School of Medicine, Department of Family and Preventive Medicine.\n\nAn active social entrepreneur and speaker on global healthcare transformation, Dr. Grundy is driving comprehensive, linked, and integrated healthcare and the concept of the Patient Centered Medical Home. His work has been reported widely in the New York Times, BusinessWeek, Forbes, the Economist, the Huffington Post, New England Journal of Medicine and newspapers, radio and television around the country. Dr. Grundy is also invited frequently as a thought leader to conferences such as TED conference, Smarter healthcare by smarter use of data, or NHS Confederation conference, Foundation for Healthcare Transformation.\n\nDr. Grundy is also a Co-Author of the book \"Lost and Found: A Consumer's Guide to Healthcare\" , written together with Dr. Peter B. Anderson.\n\nPaul Grundy spent his early life in West Africa, the son of Quaker missionaries. He attended medical school at the University of California San Francisco and earned his Master's Degree in Public Health at the University of California Berkeley. Dr. Grundy performed his Residency training at Johns Hopkins in Preventive Medicine. He also completed a post doctoral fellowship at Johns Hopkins in Occupational Health in the International Environment.\n\nFrom 1997 to 2000, he was the Corporate Occupational Medical Director for International SOS, the largest medical service company in the world, providing and coordinating care and medical assistance for multinational corporations.\n\nFrom 1994 to 1997, he was the Medical Director of Adventist Health Systems, Pennsylvania, the second largest not-for-profit medical system operating in the state of Pennsylvania, and the Medical Director for the largest occupational medicine program in Berks County, Pennsylvania.\n\nFrom 1985 to 1994 he was a Regional Medical Officer and Counselor of Embassy for Medical Affairs, U.S. Department of State. In this role, Dr. Grundy was responsible for leading the interactions between health and diplomacy, successfully organizing such activities as the Clinton/Yeltsin health initiative, a $157 million bilateral initiative in Russia. In his role with the Department of State, he was responsible for advising United States Ambassadors on health-care programs for diplomatic posts. He set up the first U.S. policy and program addressing the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Africa. He worked to organize a Congressional fact-finding mission on the extent of the HIV/AIDS problem and drafted the first bill in congress dealing with the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Africa. Dr. Grundy finished his career in the Department of State as a Minister Counselor, the highest rank for a doctor and the equivalent of a three-star flag rank in the military.\n\nFrom 1979 to 1985 Dr. Grundy was a medical officer in the U.S. Air Force, where he taught at the School of Aerospace Medicine. He also served as a flight surgeon and Chief of Hospital Services in Korea.\n\nPrior to joining IBM, Dr Grundy worked as a senior diplomat in the US State Department supporting the intersection of health and diplomacy. He was also a Medical Director for the International SOS, the world's largest medical assistance company and for Adventist Health Systems, the second-largest not-for-profit medical system in the world.\n\nDr. Grundy attended medical school at the University of California San Francisco and trained at Johns Hopkins University. He has worked extensively in International AIDS Pandemic, including writing the United States' first piece of legislation addressing AIDS Education in Africa.\n\nDr Grundy serves as a Director of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME), the body responsible for accrediting graduate medical training programs, Member National Advisory Board of the National Center for Interprofessional Education and the Medical Education Futures Study. Paul is the President of the Patient Centered Primary Care Collaborative (PCPCC), a coalition he led IBM in creating in early 2006. The PCPCC is dedicated to advancing a new primary-care model called the Patient Centered Medical Home as a means of fundamentally reforming healthcare delivery, which in turn is essential to maintaining US international competitiveness.Today, the PCPCC represents employers of some 50 million people across the United States as well as physician groups representing more than 330,000 medical doctors, leading consumer groups and the top seven US health-benefits companies. Dr. Paul Grundy is regarded as the \"godfather\" of the Patient Centered Medical Home (PCMH) concept because of his advocacy for PCMH-level care and in creation of the PCPCC. More information about his amazing advocacy for medical home can be found in the book \"The Familiar Physician: Saving Your Doctor In the Era of Obamacare\"\n\nDoctor Grundy has won numerous awards including the 2016 Barbara Starfield Primary Care Leadership Award for his life's work and dedication to the medical home model of care, Department of State Superior Honor Award for handling the crisis surrounding the two attempted coups in Russia, Department of State Superior Honor Award for work done in opening up all the new embassies after the fall of the Soviet Union, and Department of State Superior Honor Award for work on the HIV/AIDS epidemic in Africa. He also won four Department of State Meritorious Service awards for outstanding performance in the Middle East and Africa, and the Tim Ferriss Globetrotter Award 2010 from VT. He received the Defense Superior Service Award for outstanding service addressing HIV/AIDS and The Defense Meritorious Service Medal.\n\nDr. Paul Grundy retired with the rank of Minister-Counselor from the Foreign Services, U.S. State Department.\n\nDr. Paul Grundy has been named an Ambassador for Healthcare DENMARK in October 2014, a role in which he will share best practices from the Danish Healthcare system with doctors in the United States and in other parts of the world.\n"}
{"id": "945820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=945820", "title": "ProTell", "text": "ProTell\n\nProTell (formally: \"The Society for Liberal Weapons Rights\") is a Swiss gun-rights advocacy group based in Bern, Switzerland.\n\nThe association was founded in 1978 with the purpose of defending the right of law-abiding citizens to carry arms, and is opposed to any restrictions in this regard. \nIts name refers to the famous legend of Wilhelm Tell, shooting the apple off his son's head with a single arrow. ProTell reports some 8500 members as of 2016. This corresponds to some 6.4% of the number of registered shooters in the \"Schweizer Schiesssportverband\".\n\nProTell was one of the principal opponents to the federal popular initiative \"For the protection against gun violence\", brought to referendum on February 13, 2011. The initiative was broadly rejected by the voters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18410129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18410129", "title": "Provincial organization of volunteers and civil defence", "text": "Provincial organization of volunteers and civil defence\n\nThe provincial organization of volunteers and civil defence (Portuguese: organização provincial de voluntários e defesa civil) or OPVDC was a former militia type force in each of the Portuguese Overseas provinces. There were three such organizations raised by the Portuguese Government in their overseas provinces of Portuguese Angola, Portuguese Mozambique and Portuguese Timor.\n\nThe OPVDC had the tasks of auxiliary internal security force and civil defense organization, under the authority of the governor of the province. The OPVDC of Angola and Mozambique were engaged in the Portuguese Colonial War as auxiliary forces of the Portuguese Armed Forces.\n\nIn the Portuguese Overseas, the OPVDC were the correspondent of the Portuguese Legion in the European Portugal.\n\nProvincial Organization of Volunteers of Civil Defence of Angola (OPVDCA) - mainly urban militia, consisting mainly of white settlers.\n\nThe OPVDCA was formed by officers of the asset or the reserve of the Armed Forces, but was dependent on the Civil Administration, and its maximum in the Governor-General of the province. The function of OPVDCA was essentially in defence of people, lines of communications and sensitive installations.\n\nMembers of OPVDCA volunteers were civilians who had their professions, serving in the organization part-time. Initially the OPVDCA was constituted only by white settlers, but later it became increasingly multi-racial. At its peak the OPVDCA reached more than 40,000 staff.\n\nOrganização Provincial de Voluntários de Defesa Civil de Moçambique (OPVDCM) - (Provincial Organization of Volunteers of Civil Defence of Mozambique) (OPVDCM)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20228782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20228782", "title": "Queen Louise League", "text": "Queen Louise League\n\nThe \"Queen Louise League\" or Königin-Luise-Bund, often shortened to Luisenbund, was a German pro-monarchic women's organization. It was established in 1923 during the time of the Weimar Republic and lasted until the first years of the Third Reich. This organization was inspired on the figure of Louise of Mecklenburg-Strelitz, Queen of Prussia, held in reverence by many Germans of the time. The Bund Königin Luise had also a children branch known as Kinderkreis (Children Circle).\n\nThe Queen Louise League as an organization had cultic overtones built around the veneration of the former Prussian queen as a role model for all German women. She became idealized for her feminine virtues, her determination and her love for her country, as well as for her beauty and the fact that Napoleon, portrayed as an \"enemy of everything German\", hated her. The league's ideals were distilled into a booklet named \"ABC für unsere Arbeit\" (ABC for our Work) which every member had to know by heart. Like many of the emergent nationalistic movements of the time, this organization was highly structured, with local branches all over Germany.\n\nThe Queen Louise League was politically very close to far-right German parties of the time, like the German National People's Party (DNVP) and also the Stahlhelm paramilitary organization from its establishment. Many wives of Stahlhelm members belonged to the Queen Louise League and they were, like their husbands, strongly opposed to democracy and in favor of German re-armament. \n\nAfter the Machtergreifung, or takeover of the government by Adolf Hitler, the Queen Louise League was initially welcomed by the Nazi party as an ally. There were strong bonds between both movements owing to their common extremely conservative ideology and solid German nationalism.\nCampaigning along with the brownshirts for a \"Greater Germany\" with expanded borders and \"freedom from weight of the reparations\", the League's members had taken active part in parades and events organized by the Nazis even before their accession to power. The Queen Louise League shared as well with the Reichskolonialbund the demand for the return of the former German colonies.\n\nDespite its ideological affinity with most of the Third Reich's nationalistic ideals, the Queen Louise League was disbanded all the same by the Nazi government in 1934. The reason was the difference in local practices, be it at the Gau or national level, which didn't match those wished by the Nazi leadership of the country. Following its dissolution the members and departments of the Königin-Luise-Bund were integrated into the corresponding branches for women and children of the Nazi Party, like the NS-Frauenschaft (Nazi Women's League), Bund Deutscher Mädel (League of German Girls) and its children section into the National Socialist Schoolchildren's League (NSS) or the \"Kinderschar\" of the Nazi Women's League.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9402895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9402895", "title": "Recruiting sergeant", "text": "Recruiting sergeant\n\nA recruiting sergeant is a British or American soldier of the rank of sergeant who is tasked to enlist recruits. The term originated in the British army of the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries.\n\nThe playwright George Farquhar served as an infantry officer, and the characters in his play \"The Recruiting Officer\" (1706) are drawn from life.\n\nThe unscrupulous methods used by some to trick the innocent have been the subject of several traditional songs composed by their victims as a warning to others, popular examples being the Irish traditional song \"Arthur McBride\" and the Scots \"Twa Recruiting Sergeants\".\n\nA recruit would be given the King's shilling as a mark of the contract made.\n\nThe term has passed into the English language to mean any set of circumstances which recruits or fails to recruit volunteers to the army. See \"Daily Telegraph\" headline\n\"The CIA is al-Qaeda's best recruiting sergeant\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51870592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51870592", "title": "Save Romania Union", "text": "Save Romania Union\n\nThe Save Romania Union (, USR) is a political party in Romania. The party was founded following the success of the Save Bucharest Union (USB) party in the 2016 local elections. After being officially registered as a political party in 2016, it united with the local USB and Union for Codlea parties, thus gaining most of its initial membership base from the two latter parties. It is currently the third largest political party in the Romanian Parliament after the 2016 legislative elections and runs on an anti-corruption platform.\n\nDan Barna, the leader of USR, characterized the party as \"generally centre-right\", leaning centre-right on economic policy and centrist in terms of social policy. However, USR has a substantial amount of both progressive and conservative members. He compared the party with Emmanuel Macron's La République En Marche!, while mentioning that the key difference between the two is that USR predominantly consists of people who have not been involved in politics before.\n\nSince its foundation USR has supported the anti-corruption drive in Romania and the activity of the National Anticorruption Directorate. USR was against the modifications to the justice laws initiated by the government coalition PSD-ALDE and requested the rejection of OUG 13 (\"see also the 2017–2018 Romanian protests\").\n\nIn 2018 USR helped and supported the initiators of \"Fără Penali în Funcții Publice\" (\"No Convicts in Public Office\") civic campaign, whose objective is to bar the persons convicted to final imprisonment sentences for intentional offences from being elected to local government, the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate or the office of President of Romania by amending the Article 37 of the Romanian Constitution (which regulates the nomination rules). USR and volunteers collected more than 1million signatures from eligible voters.\n\nUSR's position on LGBT issues is not clearly defined. The party leader, Dan Barna, declared: \"Gay marriage is not yet a subject for the public agenda, there is no initiative promoting same-sex marriage. Maybe in 20, 30 years next generations will take care of this problem, but for now, this is not a priority.\"\n\nHowever, USR was the only parliamentary party in Romania that did not support the constitutional referendum, proposed by Coaliția pentru Familie (CpF) and supported by the Romanian Orthodox Church. The constitutional amendment proposed to change the definition of family in order to prohibit the same-sex marriage, however it failed, as the turnout was only 21.1%, below the required voter turnout threshold of 30%. USR considered the referendum a way to divide the Romanian people and to distract the attention from the real issues Romania currently faces, such as corruption.\n\nUSR supported the inclusion of the Roşia Montană site in UNESCO World Heritage. At the 42nd session of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee, held in Manama, Bahrain, the government's representative, Ştefan Răzvan Rab, state secretary of the Ministry of Culture, in Bahrain, on June 24 to July 4, asked for postponement on behalf of Romania including the Rosia Montana Mining Cultural Landscape in the World Heritage List until the completion of the judicial dispute with Gabriel Resources, an unprecedented fact in the history of UNESCO. USR Senator Vlad Alexandrescu, under whose Ministry of Culture 2015-2016 Roşia Montană was included in the UNESCO indicative list, accused the PSD-ALDE government coalition of treason, writing in a post on 2 July 2018 on Facebook:\n\n\"It is Romania's most shameful moment since being a member of UNESCO. All the other states of the world carry a fierce negotiation these days so that their monuments are included in the UNESCO list, and each success is welcomed with cheers and cheers. In contrast to the civilized world is Romania. The only state that has campaigned for its monument not to be on this list. A state seized by a bunch of villains who do not give a damn about the importance of heritage. All they want is to leave UNESCO in peace with their ideas, to make a crater over Roşia Montană so that they can fill their pockets. Of course, the rest of the states know this, not everyone is as \"professional\" as our government. And so we will be known from now on, those who sell their patrimony for the welfare of their politicians. What you have done here, members and representatives of the Government, is treason. You have acted so that our patrimony is reduced to a crater in the near future. And this will not be without consequences, I promise you! \"\n\nUSR supports Romania's membership of the European Union and is in favor of a joint European external policy and military and of Romania's accession to the Schengen Area. While not being part of a pan-European political party yet, USR has had negotiations with ALDE and to a lesser extent with the EPP and the European Greens. USR's hesitation to join ALDE is due to the fact that a Romanian party they vehemently oppose (ALDE) is part of the European party and bears the exact same name.\n\nIn the 2016 legislative election, the USR party received 629,375 votes for the Senate and 625,154 votes for the Chamber of Deputies, thus becoming the third largest political party in Romania, after the Social Democratic Party (PSD) and National Liberal Party (PNL). \n"}
{"id": "43401299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43401299", "title": "Sports Backers", "text": "Sports Backers\n\nSports Backers is a non-profit organization founded in 1991 and located in Richmond, Virginia at Sports Backers Stadium. The mission of the Sports Backers has expanded from its beginnings as a traditional sports commission for economic development to be focused on increasing physical activity to improve the health of area residents. The Sports Backers created Movement Makers, a national active living conference to encourage community health organizations that promote physical activity to have a place to gather and learn from each other. The annual event takes place in Richmond, Virginia and occurs at the same time as Dominion Riverrock. \nThe Sports Backers own Dominion Riverrock, the largest outdoor sports and music festival in the country, the Ukrop's Monument Avenue 10k, the 8th largest running race in the United States, and the Anthem Richmond Marathon, the 18th largest marathon in the country. The organization owns and produces 15 events. The organization also supports other organizations with more than 24 major sports tourism events in the Richmond region receiving annual support through marketing grants, operational assistance and loaning equipment. Sports Backers was named the Member of the Year by the National Association of Sports Commissions in 2006, 2009, 2011 and 2015. Jon Lugbill is the organization's executive director and has been leading the organization since 1993.\n\nThe Sports Backers training teams provide local residents a way to prepare for local road races. The Sports Backers Marathon, Half Marathon and 8k training teams prepared runners for the three races of the Anthem Richmond Marathon.\n\nThe Sports Backers added a number of programs in 2012 under the shared moniker of Active RVA, a region-wide initiative to motivate area residents, businesses and local governments to make physical activity a personal and regional priority. The organization has started a program to certify schools and businesses that go above and beyond to increase physical activity for their students and employees. Another program encourages the use of stairs through a stairwell signage initiative. A fitness oasis program exists to increase fitness opportunities in underserved parts of the region. The success of the Active RVA program is being measured through a combination of community indicators that has resulted in the region receiving a \"C\" grade for its overall fitness programs.\n\nThe Active RVA effort includes Bike Walk RVA, a program of the Sports Backers to support bike and pedestrian friendly policies, programs and infrastructure projects. The Sports Backers work with area leaders and public works staff to fund and install bike lanes, trails and sidewalks. The strength of the program is based on 40,000 individuals from around the region that are part of the Bike Walk RVA advocacy database. These advocates send e-mails, show up at public hearings, write letters and organize support for biking and pedestrian improvements in their neighborhoods.\n\nThe Sports Backers measure the success of the Bike Walk RVA program by measuring the total miles of bike lanes, paved trails and dirt trails added each year. In 2012 the Sports Backers staff rode, ran or walked every mile of existing bike lanes and trails (paved and dirt) in the Richmond region. The resulting baseline report provides the starting point for the region's bike infrastructure.\n\nEach year, thousands of area youth participate in the Sports Backers' Kids Run RVA program which includes a variety of ways to support and reward youth athletic achievement. In 2014, there were 10,000 youth that took part in the Kids Challenge running and walking incentive program at elementary schools throughout the Richmond region. Another program, the Healthy School Challenge rewarded middle and high school students for participating in the Ukrop's Monument Avenue 10k. A particular emphasis is placed on outreach to underserved schools by offering grants and support to encourage participation in specific programs.\n\nThe Sports Backers have been providing scholarships to area student athletes since 1992. Since the start of the scholarship program, Sports Backers have given over $660,000 to more than 395 student athletes. In 2014, the organization provided $65,000 in scholarship funds to area student athletes. The organization also provides recognition and financial awards for the top high school athletic teams and the \"comeback athletes\" of the year.\n"}
{"id": "52844003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52844003", "title": "State Supplementation Program", "text": "State Supplementation Program\n\nThe State Supplement Program (SSP or SSI/SSP), not to be confused with SNAP, is the state supplement to the U.S. federal Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program and provides state funded supplement benefits to SSI recipients.\n"}
{"id": "22208461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22208461", "title": "United Nations REDD Programme", "text": "United Nations REDD Programme\n\nThe United Nations Programme on Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (or UN-REDD Programme) is a collaborative programme of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), created in 2008 in response to the UNFCCC decisions on the Bali Action Plan and REDD at COP-13. It should not be confused with \"REDD+\", a voluntary climate change mitigation approach that has been developed by Parties to the UNFCCC (see below \"Difference between REDD+ and the UN-REDD Programme\").\n\nThe overall development goal of the Programme is \"to reduce forest emissions and enhance carbon stocks in forests while contributing to national sustainable development\".\n\nThe UN-REDD Programme supports nationally led REDD+ processes and promotes the informed and meaningful involvement of all stakeholders, including indigenous peoples and other forest-dependent communities, in national and international REDD+ implementation.\n\nThe Programme has expanded steadily since its establishment and now has over 60 official Partner Countries spanning Africa, Asia-Pacific and Latin America-Caribbean.\n\nIn addition to the UN-REDD Programme, other initiatives assisting countries that are engaged in REDD+ include the World Bank’s Forest Carbon Partnership Facility, Norway’s International Climate and Forest Initiative, the Global Environment Facility, Australia’s International Forest Carbon Initiative, the Collaborative Partnership on Forests, and the Green Climate Fund.\n\nThe UN-REDD Programme publicly releases each year an Annual Programme Progress Report and a Semi-Annual Report.\n\nThe UN-REDD Programme supports its Partner Countries through:\n\nThe UN-REDD Programme's 2016-2020 governance arrangements allow for the full and effective participation of all UN-REDD Programme stakeholders – partner countries, donors, indigenous peoples, civil society organizations, participating UN agencies – while ensuring streamlined decision-making processes and clear lines of accountability.\n\nThe governance arrangements are built on and informed by five principles: inclusiveness, transparency, accountability, consensus-based decisions and participation.\n\nUN-REDD Programme 2016-2020 governance arrangements include:\n\nThe UN-REDD Programme Executive Board has general oversight for the Programme, taking decisions on the allocation of the UN-REDD Programme fund resources. It meets bi-annually, or more frequently as required to efficiently carry out its roles and responsibilities.\n\nThe UN-REDD Programme Assembly is a broad multi-stakeholder forum with the role to foster consultation, dialogue and knowledge exchange among UN-REDD Programme stakeholders.\n\nNational Steering Committees facilitate strong country ownership and shared/common decision-making for National REDD+ Programmes, and include representatives of civil society and indigenous peoples. Each National Steering Committee provides oversight for National Programmes, addressing any delays, changes or reorientation of a programme and ensuring alignment with and delivery of results as expected and approved by the Executive Board.\n\nThe Multi-Party Trust Fund Office provides real-time funding administration to the UN-REDD Programme.\n\nThe work of the UN-REDD Programme is guided by its 2016-2020 Strategic Framework, with the goal to: Reduce forest emissions and enhance carbon stocks in forests while contributing to national sustainable development.\n\nIn order to realize its goal and target impacts, the Programme has set three outcomes and supporting outputs for its 2016-2020 work programme:\nAdditionally, the Programme has identified four important cross-cutting themes as being particularly significant in order to ensure that the outcomes and outputs of the Programme will achieve results as desired: Stakeholder Engagement, Forest Governance, Tenure Security and Gender Equality.\n\nThe UN-REDD Programme depends entirely on voluntary funds. Donors to the UN-REDD Programme have included the European Commission and governments of Denmark, Japan, Luxembourg, Norway, Spain and Switzerland—with Norway providing a significant portion of the funds.\n\nThe UN-REDD Programme adheres to the belief that information is fundamental to the effective participation of all stakeholders, including the public, in the advancement of REDD+ efforts around the world. Information sharing promotes transparency and accountability and enables public participation in REDD+ activities.\n\nThe collaborating UN agencies of the UN-REDD Programme – FAO, UNEP and UNDP – are committed to making information about the Programme and its operations available to the public in the interest of transparency. As part of this commitment, the Programme publishes annual and semi-annual programme progress reports and provides online public access to real-time funding administration.\n\nREDD+ is a voluntary climate change mitigation approach that has been developed by Parties to the UNFCCC. It aims to incentivize developing countries to reduce emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, conserve forest carbon stocks, sustainably manage forests and enhance forest carbon stocks. \n\nThe United Nations Collaborative Programme on Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation in Developing Countries – or UN-REDD Programme – is a multilateral body. It partners with developing countries to support them in establishing the technical capacities needed to implement REDD+ and meet UNFCCC requirements for REDD+ results-based payments. It does so through a country-based approach that provides advisory and technical support services tailored to national circumstances and needs. The UN-REDD Programme is a collaborative programme of the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), and harnesses the technical expertise of these UN agencies. Other examples of REDD+ multilaterals include the Forest Carbon Partnership Facility and Forest Investment Program, hosted by The World Bank.\n\n\n\nPartners:\n"}
{"id": "10091363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10091363", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 68", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 68\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 68, adopted on February 10, 1949, resolved that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 192 be transmitted to the Commission for Conventional Armaments for action according to its terms.\n\nThe resolution was passed with nine votes, while the Ukrainian SSR and Soviet Union abstained.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15079734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15079734", "title": "Universal power", "text": "Universal power\n\nIn the Middle Ages, the term universal powers referred to the Holy Roman Emperor and the Pope. Both were struggling for the so-called \"Dominium mundi\", or world dominium, in terms of political and spiritual supremacy. The emperor and the pope maintained their respective authorities through diverse factors such as territorial dispersion, low level of technic and productive development in feudal mode of production, and social and political tendency of feudalism to decentralization of power.\n\nThe universal powers continued into the early 19th century until the Napoleonic Wars. The reshaping of Europe meant the effective end of the Empire. Although the Papacy had its territorial limits confined to the Vatican, it retained its soft power in the contemporary world.\n\nGiven the Caesaropapism of the Byzantine Empire, the situation in the Western World after the decline of the Roman Empire assumed an exceptionally powerful position of the Bishop of Rome. As the only patriarch in the Western World, his status was soon converted into that of a primate (bishop). In addition to this spiritual power, the Bishop of Rome sought to gain temporal power over a territory held by various Germanic Kingdoms in order to make it a true theocracy. The Bishop of Rome tried to extend his territory from the city of Rome to the whole of Italy and further to the whole of the Western Roman Empire (in accordance with the Donation of Constantine). The coronation of Charlemagne in the year 800, which began the Carolingian Empire, marked the appearance of a secular authority with universal claims. The two century long coexistence of the Pontiff and the Empire (regnum et sacerdocium) was difficult and yielded the Investiture Controversy and several different ideological formulations (the theory of the two swords, Plenitutdo postestatis, \"Dictatus papae\", condemnations of simony, and nicolaism). In these the Pope tried to establish the supremacy of religious authority over civil authority. Meanwhile, the Emperor tried to enforce the legitimacy of his position, which claimed to come from the old Roman Empire (\"Translatio imperii\"). In order to do this, he established his military capability to impose his territorial power and extend his power over religious life. This was done in a manner similar to that of his equivalent in the East. Both efforts fell far short of their goals.\n\nThe division of the Carolingian Empire between the heirs of Louis the Pious and the claims of different dynasties, such as the Ottonian and the House of Hohenstaufen, to the imperial title, debilitated the power of the emperors and subjected them to a system of election. The system of election made them dependent on a delicate game of alliances between the nobles that held the title of Prince-Elector, some laymen and others clergymen. Notwithstanding, he would periodically try to regain imperial power (Otto III, Henry II). At times this led to spectacular confrontations (Henry IV, Frederick I Barbarossa, Frederick II). The strengthening of the power of the papacy was very important from Pope Gregory I on, and depended on the support of the monastic orders, above all the Order of Cluny. The constitution of many of these new kingdoms made them feudally obligated to the Pope, which liberated them from the theoretical feudal subjugation of the emperor or another king (such was the case of Portugal). In the territory of the Sacred Empire, the rivalry between the Guelphs, supporting the Papacy, and Ghibellines, supporting the Emperor, dominated German and Italian political life from the 12th to the 15th century.\n\nEventually, the authority of the Emperor was converted into something purely theoretical, lacking a strong economic or military base. He was incapable of not only standing up to the feudal monarchies definitively free of all subordination \"Rex superiorem non recognoscens in regno suo est Imperator\" (Decretal Per Venerabilem by Innocent III, 1202), but to his own territorial princes or Italian city-states. The papal authority also decayed. The Crusades, advocated by the pope, did not give him more control of the briefly conquered territories in the Holy Land, the European kingdoms, or of the new religious orders. With the Avignon Papacy and the Western Schism, the French Monarchy subjugated the Papacy to its control. This further weakened the Pope's power and undermined the intimidating power of excommunication, which had been greatly feared.\n\nThe production of theoretical arguments on the theme of universal power, on the other hand, continued and included contributions such as those of Marsilius of Padua, \"Defensor Pacis\" or William of Ockham, \"Eight Questions about the Authority of the Pope\" (1342) and \"De imperatorum et pontificum potestate\" (1347). Such works continued to undermine the universal ambitions of both authorities and were produced by the most important authors of the scholasticism crisis. The scholasticism crisis debated the adoption and extension of new legal ideas taken from Roman Law, with the \"jus commune\" of the School of Bologna on one side and conciliarism of the Counsel of Florence on the other.\n\nBoth universal powers entered the Modern Age very debilitated, although their power continued to be notable. They tried to recoup what was lost. These attempts, however, proved unsuccessful, as in the cases of the emperor Charles V and the pontiffs of the Renaissance (Alexander VI and Julius II) and the Counter-Reformation, whose ambitions proved impossible in the long term. The reality that was imposed during the Ancien Régime was that of new authoritarian monarchies (such as the Catholic Monarchy) that evolved towards absolutism (as in France) or towards the bourgeois revolutions (as in the Netherlands with the Dutch Revolt and in England with the English Civil War). In 1648 the Treaty of Westphalia definitively supplanted the role of the universal powers and brought about modern, secularized international relations based on pragmatism and the prominence of states. Even within Catholic countries, the theory that only monarchs could grant royalties effectively limited the pontifical power.\n\nThe 19th century was the end of both universal powers as territorial entities: the Sacro Imperio was formally abolished by Napoleon Bonaparte, who created his own empire, and although Napoleon's empire was defeated, the Holy Roman Empire was not restored in the redrawing of the European map following the Congress of Vienna (1814–1815). The territories recuperated by the Habsburg dynasty were transformed into a multinational state, first as the Austrian Empire and later as a dual monarchy, the Austro-Hungarian Empire, which lasted until 1918. Additionally, the leadership of Prussia in the recently created German Confederation brought about the constitution of the Second German Empire in 1871.\n\nSimultaneously, the relations of the Pope with the French Revolution and Napoleon, as with ideological liberalism itself, oscillated between direct opposition and forced coexistence. In 1860, the new Kingdom of Italy, formed by the Kingdom of Piedmont-Sardinia, conquered the Papal States' territorial base (called Marche) in the center of Italy. The Kingdom of Italy did not take Rome itself, however, until 1871 when the Second French Empire of Napoleon III withdrew its garrison in Rome which had served to protect the Papal States. The Pope's rejection of the situation and the voluntary confinement of the popes in the Vatican continued until the Lateran Pacts of 1929 with the Italian fascist Benito Mussolini.\n\nSince then, the efforts of the Pope in the international scene and in the internal business of Catholic countries have transcended the territorial dimensions of the Vatican City, demonstrating that the religious dimension is very decisive. It has also shown that what has come to be called soft power, though subtle, can be effective because of its moral, ideological, and cultural weight. \nThe name of \"empire\" has been applied to types of political entities that have not had a universal function (theocratic or Caesaropapist), but to those with a global, secularized one. This has been possible in geostrategic terms for the first time since the coming about of a global economy. Although the first empires to form (the Portuguese Empire and Spanish Empire in the 16th century) in their day did not refer to themselves as empires, (the Spanish self defined, in providentialist terms, as the Catholic Monarchy), the name typically has been applied by historiography (which applies \"empire\" to any political form of the past with multinational dimensions: Turk Empire, Mongol Empire, Inca Empire).\n\nConsequently, this is done to the Russian Empire, which claimed to be a third Rome after the fall of Constantinople in 1453 (the title Czar is derived from Caesar).\n\nThe term is also applied to the overseas territorial possessions of the European states:\n\nAnalogously, the name \"empire\" is also used to refer to non-European entities, such as the Chinese Empire and the Japanese Empire, or give the title of emperor to those like the Negus of Ethiopia, the Shah of Persia, and the Sultan of Morocco. In most cases, this is a \"diplomatic courtesy.\" Since the Cold War, it has also been common to refer to the two rival superpowers as the American Empire and the Soviet Empire.\n\n"}
{"id": "4834792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4834792", "title": "Vermont Student Assistance Corporation", "text": "Vermont Student Assistance Corporation\n\nThe Vermont Student Assistance Corporation (VSAC) is a nonprofit public corporation that was created by the State of Vermont in 1965 to provide citizens of the state with the information and financial resources they need to pursue education or training beyond high school. VSAC provides \"one-stop\" delivery of higher education services including: career, college, and financial aid information and counseling, state grants for full-time, part-time, and non-degree study, administration of, or information about, dozens of scholarships available to Vermonters, low-interest private loans for students and parents, and the Vermont Higher Education Investment Plan.\n\nVSAC administers a summer employment program for eligible students and provides financial aid services for 10 Vermont post-secondary institutions. VSAC employs 350 people and is governed by an 11-member Board of Directors. Five of the members are appointed by the Governor, two are legislative members, one is the State Treasurer, and the remaining three are chosen by the Board itself.\n\nThe Vermont appropriations for fiscal year 2009 contains $19,153,758 \nfor VSAC.\n\n"}
{"id": "32759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32759", "title": "Vice President of the United States", "text": "Vice President of the United States\n\nThe Vice President of the United States (informally referred to as VPOTUS, VP, or Veep) is the second-highest officer in the executive branch of the U.S. federal government, after the President of the United States, and ranks first in the presidential line of succession. The vice president is also an officer in the legislative branch, as President of the Senate. In this capacity, the vice president presides over Senate deliberations (or delegates this task to a member of the Senate), but may only vote to break a tie. The vice president also presides over joint sessions of Congress.\n\nThe vice president is indirectly elected together with the president to a four-year term of office by the people of the United States through the Electoral College. Section 2 of the Twenty-fifth Amendment, ratified in 1967, created a mechanism for intra-term vice presidential succession, establishing that vice presidential vacancies will be filled by the president and confirmed by both houses of Congress. Previously, whenever a vice president had succeeded to the presidency or had died or resigned from office, the vice presidency remained vacant until the next presidential and vice presidential terms began.\n\nThe vice president is also a statutory member of the National Security Council, and the Board of Regents of the Smithsonian Institution. The Office of the Vice President assists and organizes the vice president's official functions. The role of the vice presidency has changed dramatically since the office was created during the 1787 constitutional Convention. Especially over the past 100 years, the vice presidency has evolved into a position of domestic and foreign policy political power, and is now widely seen as an integral part of a president's administration. As the vice president's role within the executive branch has expanded, their role within the legislative branch has contracted; for example, they preside over the Senate only infrequently.\n\nThe Constitution does not expressly assign the vice presidency to any one branch, causing a dispute among scholars about which branch of government the office belongs to: 1) the executive branch; 2) the legislative branch; 3) both; or 4) neither. The modern view of the vice president as an officer of the executive branch (isolated almost totally from the legislative branch) is due in large part to the assignment of executive authority to the vice president by either the president or Congress.\n\nMike Pence of Indiana is the 48th and current vice president. He assumed office on January 20, 2017.\n\nNo mention of an office of vice president was made at the 1787 Constitutional Convention until near the end, when an 11-member committee on \"Leftover Business\" proposed a method of electing the chief executive (president). Delegates had previously considered the selection of the Senate's presiding officer, deciding that, \"The Senate shall choose its own President,\" and had agreed that this official would be designated the executive's immediate successor. They had also considered the mode of election of the executive but had not reached consensus. This all changed on September 4, when the committee recommended that the nation's chief executive be elected by an Electoral College, with each state having a number of presidential electors equal to the sum of that state's allocation of representatives and senators.\n\nThe proposed presidential election process called for each state to choose members of the electoral college, who would use their discretion to select the candidates they individually viewed as best qualified. Recognizing that loyalty to one's individual state outweighed loyalty to the new federation, the Constitution's framers assumed that individual electors would be inclined to choose a candidate from their own state (a so-called \"favorite son\" candidate) over one from another. So they created the office of vice president and required that electors vote for two candidates, requiring that at least one of their votes must be for a candidate from outside the elector's state, believing that this second vote could be cast for a candidate of national character. Additionally, to guard against the possibility that some electors might strategically throw away their second vote in order to bolster their favorite son's chance of winning, it was specified that the first runner-up presidential candidate would become vice president. Creating this new office imposed a political cost on strategically discarded electoral votes, incentivizing electors to make their choices for president without resort to electoral gamesmanship and to cast their second ballot accordingly.\n\nThe resultant method of electing the president and vice president, spelled out in , allocated to each state a number of electors equal to the combined total of its Senate and House of Representatives membership. Each elector was allowed to vote for two people for president (rather than for both president and vice president), but could not differentiate between their first and second choice for the presidency. The person receiving the greatest number of votes (provided that it was an absolute majority of the whole number of electors) would be president, while the individual who received the next largest number of votes became vice president. If there were a tie for first or for second place, or if no one won a majority of votes, the president and vice president would be selected by means of contingent elections protocols stated in the clause. \n\nThe emergence of political parties and nationally coordinated election campaigns during the 1790s (which the Constitution's framers had not contemplated) soon frustrated this original plan. In the election of 1796, Federalist John Adams won the presidency, but his bitter rival, Democratic-Republican Thomas Jefferson came second and became vice president. Thus, the president and vice president were from opposing parties; and Jefferson used the vice presidency to frustrate the president's policies. Then, four years later, in the election of 1800, Jefferson, and fellow Democratic-Republican Aaron Burr each received 73 electoral votes. In the contingent election that followed, Jefferson finally won on the 36th ballot, and Burr became vice president. Afterward, the system was overhauled through the Twelfth Amendment in time to be used in the 1804 election.\n\nAlthough delegates approved establishing the office, with both its executive and senatorial functions, not many understood the office, and so they gave the vice president few duties and little power. Only a few states had an analogous position. Among those that did, New York's constitution provided that, \"The lieutenant-governor shall, by virtue of his office, be president of the Senate, and, upon an equal division, have a casting voice in their decisions, but not vote on any other occasion.\" As a result, the vice presidency originally had authority in only a few areas. The present day power of the office flows primarily from delegations from the President and Congress, as well as through constitutional amendments.\n\n confers upon the vice president the title President of the Senate and authorizes him to preside over Senate meetings. In this capacity, the vice president is charged with maintaining order and decorum, recognizing members to speak, and interpreting the Senate's rules, practices, and precedent. The first two vice presidents, John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, both of whom gained the office by virtue of being runners-up in presidential contests, presided regularly over Senate proceedings, and did much to shape the role of Senate president. Several 19th century vice presidents—such as George Dallas, Levi Morton, and Garret Hobart—followed their example and led effectively, while others were rarely present.\n\nWith this position comes the authority to cast a tie-breaking vote. In practice, the number of times vice presidents have exercised this right has varied greatly. John C. Calhoun holds the record at 31 votes, followed closely by John Adams with 29. During his first year in office (through January 24, 2018), Mike Pence cast eight tie breaking votes; his predecessor, Joe Biden, did not cast any during his eight years in office. \n\nAs the framers of the Constitution anticipated that the vice president would not always be available to fulfil this responsibility, the Constitution provides that the Senate may elect a President pro tempore (or \"president for a time\") in order to maintain the proper ordering of the legislative process. In practice, since the early 20th century, the President of the Senate rarely presides, nor does the President pro tempore. He regularly delegates the task to other Senate members. Rule XIX, which governs debate, does not authorize the vice president to participate in debate, and grants only to members of the Senate (and, upon appropriate notice, former presidents of the United States) the privilege of addressing the Senate, without granting a similar privilege to the sitting vice president. Thus, \"Time\" magazine wrote in 1925, during the tenure of Vice President Charles G. Dawes, \"once in four years the Vice President can make a little speech, and then he is done. For four years he then has to sit in the seat of the silent, attending to speeches ponderous or otherwise, of deliberation or humor.\"\n\nAs President of the Senate he may also preside over most of the impeachment trials of federal officers. However, whenever the President of the United States is on trial, the Constitution requires that the Chief Justice of the United States must preside. This stipulation was designed to avoid the possible conflict of interest in having the vice president preside over the trial for the removal of the one official standing between him and the presidency. Curiously, the framers made no mention of who would preside in the instance where the vice president is the officer impeached; thus leaving a loophole whereby a vice president, as President of the Senate, could preside at their own impeachment trial.\n\nThe Twelfth Amendment, like the superseded Article II clause, provides that the vice president, in his capacity as President of the Senate, also presides over counting and presentation of the votes of the Electoral College. This process occurs during a joint session of Congress held, as prescribed by federal statute, on January 6 of the year following the presidential election. It will next take place following the 2020 presidential election, on January 6, 2021 (unless Congress sets a different date by law). In this capacity, four vice presidents have been able to announce their own election to the presidency: John Adams, Thomas Jefferson, Martin Van Buren, and George H. W. Bush. In January 1961, it fell to Richard Nixon to preside over this process, and to announce the election of his 1960 opponent, John F. Kennedy. John C. Breckinridge, in 1861, and Al Gore, in 2001, have also had to announce their opponent's election. In 1969, Vice President Hubert Humphrey would have done so as well, following his 1968 loss to Richard Nixon; however, on the date of the Congressional joint session, Humphrey was in Norway attending the funeral of Trygve Lie, the first elected Secretary-General of the United Nations. The president pro tempore presided in his absence.\n\n stipulates that the vice president takes over the \"powers and duties\" of the presidency in the event of a president's removal, death, resignation, or inability. Even so, it does not clearly state whether the vice president became President of the United States or simply acted as president in a case of succession. Debate records from the 1787 Constitutional Convention, along with various participants' later writings on the subject, show that the framers of the Constitution intended that the vice president would temporarily exercise the powers and duties of the office in the event of a president's death, disability or removal, but not actually become President of the United States in their own right.\n\nThis understanding was first tested in 1841, following the death of President William Henry Harrison, only days into his term. Harrison's vice president, John Tyler, asserted that he had succeeded to the office of President, not just to its powers and duties. He took the presidential oath of office, and declined to acknowledge documents referring to him as \"Acting President.\" Although some in Congress denounced Tyler's claim as a violation of the Constitution, he adhered to his position. Tyler's view ultimately prevailed when the Senate and House voted to acknowledge him as President, setting a momentous precedent for an orderly transfer of presidential power following a president's death, one made explicit by Section 1 of the Twenty-fifth Amendment in 1967. In total, nine vice presidents have succeeded to the presidency intra-term. In addition to Tyler they are Millard Fillmore, Andrew Johnson, Chester A. Arthur, Theodore Roosevelt, Calvin Coolidge, Harry S. Truman, Lyndon B. Johnson, and Gerald Ford.\n\nEven after the precedent regarding presidential succession following a president's death was set, there remained ambiguity in the Article II succession clause regarding a disabled president. What constituted an \"inability\"? Who determined the existence of an inability? Did a vice president become president for the rest of the presidential term in the case of an inability; or was the vice president merely \"acting as President\"? During the 19th and first half of the 20th century several presidents experienced periods of severe illness, physical disability or injury, some lasting for weeks or months. During these times, even though the nation needed effective presidential leadership, no vice president wanted to seem like a usurper, and so power was never transferred. After President Dwight D. Eisenhower openly addressed his health issues and made it a point to enter into an agreement with Vice President Richard Nixon that provided for Nixon to act on his behalf in the event that Eisenhower became unable to provide effective presidential leadership (Nixon did informally assume some of the president's duties for several weeks on each of three occasions when Eisenhower was ill), discussions began in Congress about clearing-up the Constitution's ambiguity on the subject. \n\nSections 3 and 4 of the Twenty-fifth Amendment provide for situations where the president is temporarily unable to lead, such as if the president has a surgical procedure, becomes seriously ill or injured, or is otherwise unable to discharge the powers or duties of the presidency. Section 3 deals with self-declared incapacity, and Section 4 addresses incapacity declared by the joint action of the vice president and of a majority of the Cabinet. While Section 4 has never been invoked, Section 3 has been invoked on three occasions by two presidents. President Ronald Reagan did so once, on July 13, 1985, before undergoing surgeryVice President George H. W. Bush was acting president for approximately eight hours. President George W. Bush did so twice, on June 29, 2002 and July 21, 2007, prior to undergoing medical procedures, which were done under sedationVice President Dick Cheney was acting president for approximately two hours on each occasion.\n\nThe extent of any informal roles and functions of the vice president depend on the specific relationship between the president and the vice president, but often include tasks such as drafter and spokesperson for the administration's policies, adviser to the president, and being a symbol of American concern or support. The influence of the vice president in this role depends almost entirely on the characteristics of the particular administration. Dick Cheney, for instance, was widely regarded as one of President George W. Bush's closest confidants. Al Gore was an important adviser to President Bill Clinton on matters of foreign policy and the environment.\n\nUnder the American system of government the president is both head of state and head of government, and the ceremonial duties of the former position are often delegated to the vice president. The vice president will on occasion represent the president and the U.S. government at state funerals abroad, or at various events in the United States. This often is the most visible role of the vice president. The vice president may also meet with other heads of state at times when the administration wishes to demonstrate concern or support but cannot send the president personally.\n\nTo be Constitutionally eligible to serve as the nation's vice president, a person must, according to the Twelfth Amendment, meet the eligibility requirements to become president (which are stated in ). Thus, to serve as vice president, an individual must:\n\nA person who meets the above qualifications is still disqualified from holding the office of vice president under the following conditions:\n\nThough the vice president does not need to have any political experience, most major-party vice presidential nominees are current or former United States Senators or Representatives, with the occasional nominee being a current or former Governor, a high-ranking military officer, or a holder of a major post within the Executive Department. The vice presidential candidates of the major national political parties are formally selected by each party's quadrennial nominating convention, following the selection of the party's presidential candidate. The official process is identical to the one by which the presidential candidates are chosen, with delegates placing the names of candidates into nomination, followed by a ballot in which candidates must receive a majority to secure the party's nomination.\n\nIn practice, the presidential nominee has considerable influence on the decision, and in the 20th century it became customary for that person to select a preferred running mate, who is then nominated and accepted by the convention. In recent years, with the presidential nomination usually being a foregone conclusion as the result of the primary process, the selection of a vice presidential candidate is often announced prior to the actual balloting for the presidential candidate, and sometimes before the beginning of the convention itself. The first presidential aspirant to announce his selection for vice president before the beginning of the convention was Ronald Reagan who, prior to the 1976 Republican National Convention announced that Richard Schweiker would be his running mate. Reagan's supporters then sought to amend the convention rules so that Gerald R. Ford would be required to name his vice presidential running mate in advance as well. The proposal was defeated, and Reagan did not receive the nomination in 1976. Often, the presidential nominee will name a vice presidential candidate who will bring geographic or ideological balance to the ticket or appeal to a particular constituency.\n\nThe vice presidential candidate might also be chosen on the basis of traits the presidential candidate is perceived to lack, or on the basis of name recognition. To foster party unity, popular runners-up in the presidential nomination process are commonly considered. While this selection process may enhance the chances of success for a national ticket, in the past it often insured that the vice presidential nominee represented regions, constituencies, or ideologies at odds with those of the presidential candidate. As a result, vice presidents were often excluded from the policy-making process of the new administration. Many times their relationships with the president and his staff were aloof, non-existent, or even adversarial.\n\nThe ultimate goal of vice presidential candidate selection is to help and not hurt the party's chances of getting elected, nonetheless several vice presidential selections have been controversial. In 1984, Democratic nominee Walter Mondale's groundbreaking choice of Geraldine Ferraro as his running mate (the first woman in U.S. history nominated for Vice President by a major political party), became a drag on the ticket due to repeated questions about her husband's finances. A selection whose positive traits make the presidential candidate look less favorable in comparison or which can cause the presidential candidate's judgment to be questioned often backfire, such as in 1988 when Democratic candidate Michael Dukakis chose experienced Texas Senator Lloyd Bentsen; Bentsen was considered a more seasoned statesman in federal politics and somewhat overshadowed Dukakis. Questions about Dan Quayle's experience were raised in the 1988 presidential campaign of George H. W. Bush, but the Bush-Quayle ticket still won handily. James Stockdale, the choice of third-party candidate Ross Perot in 1992, was seen as unqualified by many and Stockdale had little preparation for the vice presidential debate, but the Perot-Stockdale ticket still won about 19% of the vote. In 2008, Republican John McCain chose Sarah Palin as his running mate over his primary rivals and/or campaign surrogates such as Mitt Romney or Tom Ridge. This surprise move would, it was hoped, draw women voters disappointed by Hillary Clinton's defeat in the Democratic presidential primaries into the McCain camp. Palin's selection soon came to be seen as a negative for McCain, due to her several controversies during her gubernatorial tenure which were highlighted by the press, and her feuding with McCain campaign chairman Steve Schmidt. This perception continued to grow throughout the campaign, especially after her interviews with Katie Couric led to concerns about her fitness for the presidency.\n\nHistorically, vice presidential candidates were chosen to provide geographic and ideological balance to a presidential ticket, widening a presidential candidate's appeal to voters from outside his regional base or wing of the party. Candidates from electoral-vote rich states were usually preferred. However, in 1992, moderate Democrat Bill Clinton (of Arkansas) chose moderate Democrat Al Gore (of Tennessee) as his running mate. Despite the two candidates' near-identical ideological and regional backgrounds, Gore's extensive experience in national affairs enhanced the appeal of a ticket headed by Clinton, whose political career had been spent entirely at the local and state levels of government. In 2000, George W. Bush chose Dick Cheney of Wyoming, a reliably Republican state with only three electoral votes, and in 2008, Barack Obama mirrored Bush's strategy when he chose Joe Biden of Delaware, a reliably Democratic state, likewise one with only three electoral votes. Both Cheney and Biden were chosen for their experience in national politics (experience lacked by both Bush and Obama) rather than the ideological balance or electoral vote advantage they would provide.\n\nPrior to the 2000 election, both George W. Bush and Dick Cheney lived in and voted in Texas. While nothing in the Constitution prohibits a presidential candidate and his or her running mate being from the same state, the \"inhabitant clause\" of the Twelfth Amendment does mandate that every presidential elector must cast a ballot for at least one candidate who is not from their own state. To avoid creating a potential problem for Texas' electors, Cheney changed his residency back to Wyoming prior to the campaign.\n\nThe first presidential candidate to choose his vice presidential candidate was Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1940. The last not to name a vice presidential choice, leaving the matter up to the convention, was Democrat Adlai Stevenson in 1956. The convention chose Tennessee Senator Estes Kefauver over Massachusetts Senator (and later president) John F. Kennedy. At the tumultuous 1972 Democratic convention, presidential nominee George McGovern selected Senator Thomas Eagleton as his running mate, but numerous other candidates were either nominated from the floor or received votes during the balloting. Eagleton nevertheless received a majority of the votes and the nomination, though he later resigned from the ticket, resulting in Sargent Shriver becoming McGovern's final running mate; both lost to the Nixon-Agnew ticket by a wide margin, carrying only Massachusetts and the District of Columbia.\n\nIn cases where the presidential nomination is still in doubt as the convention approaches, the campaigns for the two positions may become intertwined. In 1976, Ronald Reagan, who was trailing President Gerald R. Ford in the presidential delegate count, announced prior to the Republican National Convention that, if nominated, he would select Senator Richard Schweiker as his running mate. This move backfired to a degree, as Schweiker's relatively liberal voting record alienated many of the more conservative delegates who were considering a challenge to party delegate selection rules to improve Reagan's chances. In the end, Ford narrowly won the presidential nomination and Reagan's selection of Schweiker became moot.\n\nIn the 2008 Democratic presidential primaries which pitted Hillary Clinton against Barack Obama, Clinton suggested a Clinton-Obama ticket with Obama in the vice president slot as it would be \"unstoppable\" against the presumptive Republican nominee. Obama rejected the offer outright saying \"I want everybody to be absolutely clear. I'm not running for vice president. I'm running for president of the United States of America\" while noting \"With all due respect. I won twice as many states as Sen. Clinton. I've won more of the popular vote than Sen. Clinton. I have more delegates than Sen. Clinton. So, I don't know how somebody who's in second place is offering vice presidency to the person who's in first place\". Obama stated that the nomination process would have to be a choice between himself and Clinton, saying \"I don't want anybody here thinking that 'Somehow, maybe I can get both'\", by nominating Clinton as president and assuming he would be her running mate\". Some suggested that it was a ploy by the Clinton campaign to denigrate Obama as less qualified for the presidency. Later, when Obama became the presumptive Democratic nominee, former President Jimmy Carter cautioned against Clinton being picked for the vice president slot on the ticket, saying \"I think it would be the worst mistake that could be made. That would just accumulate the negative aspects of both candidates\", citing opinion polls showing 50% of US voters with a negative view of Hillary Clinton.\n\nThe vice president is elected indirectly by the voters of each state and the District of Columbia through the Electoral College, a body of electors formed every four years for the sole purpose of electing the president and vice president to concurrent four-year terms. Each state is entitled to a number of electors equal to the size of its total delegation in both houses of Congress. Additionally, the Twenty-third Amendment provides that the District of Columbia is entitled to the number it would have if it were a state, but in no case more than that of the least populous state. Currently, all states and D.C. select their electors based on a popular election held on Election Day. In all but two states, the party whose presidential-vice presidential ticket receives a plurality of popular votes in the state has its entire slate of elector nominees chosen as the state's electors. Maine and Nebraska deviate from this practice, awarding two electors to the statewide winner and one to the winner in each congressional district.\n\nOn the first Monday after the second Wednesday in December, about six weeks after the election, the electors convene in their respective states (and in Washington D.C.) to vote for president and, on a separate ballot, for vice president. The certified results are opened and counted during a joint session of Congress, held in the first week of January. A candidate who receives an absolute majority of electoral votes for vice president (currently 270 of 538) is declared the winner. Otherwise, the Senate must meet to elect a vice president using a contingent election procedure in which senators, casting votes individually, choose between the two candidates who received the most electoral votes for vice president. For a candidate to win, he or she must receive votes from an absolute majority of senators (currently 51 of 100).\n\nThere has been only one vice presidential contingent election since the Twelfth Amendment was ratified. It occurred on February 8, 1837, after no candidate received a majority of the electoral votes cast for vice president in the 1836 election. By a 33–17 vote, Richard M. Johnson (Martin Van Buren's running mate) was elected the nation's ninth vice president over Francis Granger.\n\nPursuant to the Twentieth Amendment, the vice president's term of office begins at noon on January 20, as does the president's. The first presidential and vice presidential terms to begin on this date, known as Inauguration Day, were the second terms of President Franklin D. Roosevelt and Vice President John Nance Garner in 1937. Previously, Inauguration Day was on March 4. As a result of the date change, the first term (1933–37) of both men had been shortened by days.\n\nAlso in 1937, the Vice President's swearing-in ceremony was held on the Inaugural platform on the Capitol's east front immediately before the president's swearing in. Up until then, most Vice Presidents took the oath of office in the Senate chamber, prior to the President's swearing-in ceremony. Although the Constitution contains the specific wording of the presidential oath, it only contains a general requirement, in Article VI, that the vice president and other government officers shall take an oath or affirmation to support the Constitution. The current form, which has been used since 1884 reads:\n\nThe term of office for both the vice president and the president is four years. While the Twenty-Second Amendment generally restricts the president to two terms, there is no such limitation on the office of vice president, meaning an eligible person could hold the office as long as voters continued to vote for electors who in turn would reelect the person to the office; one could even serve under different presidents. This has happened twice: George Clinton (1805–1812) served under both Thomas Jefferson and James Madison; and John C. Calhoun (1825–1832) served under John Quincy Adams and Andrew Jackson. Additionally, neither the Constitution's eligibility provisions nor the Twenty-second Amendment's presidential term limit explicitly disqualify a twice-elected president from serving as vice president. As of the 2016 election cycle however, no former president has tested the amendment's legal restrictions or meaning by running for the vice presidency.\n\n of the Constitution allows for the removal of federal officials, including the president, from office for \"treason, bribery, or other high crimes and misdemeanors.\" authorizes the House of Representatives to serve as a \"grand jury\" with the power to impeach said officials by a majority vote. authorizes the Senate to serve as a court with the power to remove impeached officials from office, by a two-thirds vote to convict. No vice president has ever been impeached.\n\nThe vice president's salary is $230,700. The salary was set by the 1989 Government Salary Reform Act, which also provides an automatic cost of living adjustment for federal employees. The vice president does not automatically receive a pension based on that office, but instead receives the same pension as other members of Congress based on his position as President of the Senate. The vice president must serve a minimum of two years to qualify for a pension.\n\nThe home of the vice president was only designated in 1974, when Congress established Number One Observatory Circle as the official \"temporary\" residence of the Vice President of the United States. In 1966 Congress, concerned about safety and security and mindful of the increasing responsibilities of the office, allotted monies ($75,000) to fund construction of a residence for the vice president, but implementation stalled and after 8 years the decision was revised, and One Observatory Circle was then designated for the vice president. Up until the change, vice presidents lived in homes, apartments, or hotels, and were compensated more like cabinet members and members of Congress, receiving only a housing allowance. \n\nThe three-story Queen Anne style mansion was built in 1893 on the grounds of the U.S. Naval Observatory in Washington, D.C., to serve as residence for the superintendent of the Observatory. In 1923, the residence was reassigned to be the home of the Chief of Naval Operations (CNO), which it was until it was turned over to the office of the vice president fifty years later.\n\nIn recent decades, the vice presidency has frequently been used as a platform to launch bids for the presidency. The transition of the office to its modern stature occurred primarily as a result of Franklin Roosevelt's 1940 nomination, when he captured the ability to nominate his running mate instead of leaving the nomination to the convention. Prior to that, party bosses often used the vice presidential nomination as a consolation prize for the party's minority faction. A further factor potentially contributing to the rise in prestige of the office was the adoption of presidential preference primaries in the early 20th century. By adopting primary voting, the field of candidates for vice president was expanded by both the increased quantity and quality of presidential candidates successful in some primaries, yet who ultimately failed to capture the presidential nomination at the convention.\n\nOf the thirteen presidential elections from 1956 to 2004, nine featured the incumbent president; the other four (1960, 1968, 1988, 2000) all featured the incumbent vice president. Former vice presidents also ran in 1984 (Walter Mondale) and in 1968 (Richard Nixon, against the incumbent vice president, Hubert Humphrey). The presidential election of 2008 was the first presidential election since 1928 that saw neither an incumbent president nor an incumbent or former vice president take part in any primary or general election for the presidency on a major party ticket. Nixon is the only vice president to have been elected president while not an incumbent, as well as the only person elected twice to both the presidency and vice presidency.\n\nPrior to ratification of the Twenty-fifth Amendment in 1967, no constitutional provision existed for filling an intra-term vacancy in the vice presidency. As a result, when one occurred, the office was left vacant until filled through the next ensuing election and inauguration. Between 1812 and 1967, the vice presidency was vacant on sixteen occasions—as a result of seven deaths, one resignation, and eight cases in which the vice president succeeded to the presidency.\n\nSection 2 of the Twenty-fifth Amendment established a procedure for filling such a vacancy:\n\nThis procedure has been implemented twice since the amendment came into force. The first instance occurred in 1973 following the October 10 resignation of Spiro Agnew, when Gerald Ford was nominated by President Richard Nixon and confirmed by Congress. The second occurred 10 months later following Ford's August 9, 1974 accession to the presidency upon Nixon's resignation, when Nelson Rockefeller was nominated by President Ford and confirmed by Congress. Had it not been for this new constitutional mechanism, the vice presidency would have remained vacant after Agnew's resignation and Speaker of the House Carl Albert would have become Acting President when Nixon resigned, under the terms of the Presidential Succession Act of 1947.\n\nFor much of its existence, the office of vice president was seen as little more than a minor position. John Adams, the first vice president, was the first of many frustrated by the \"complete insignificance\" of the office. To his wife Abigail Adams wrote, \"My country has in its wisdom contrived for me the most insignificant office that ever the invention of man . . . or his imagination contrived or his imagination conceived; and as I can do neither good nor evil, I must be borne away by others and met the common fate.\" John Nance Garner, who served as vice president from 1933 to 1941 under President Franklin D. Roosevelt, claimed that the vice presidency \"isn't worth a pitcher of warm piss.\" Harry Truman, who also served as vice president under Roosevelt, said that the office was as \"useful as a cow's fifth teat.\"\n\nThomas R. Marshall, the 28th vice president, lamented: \"Once there were two brothers. One ran away to sea; the other was elected Vice President of the United States. And nothing was heard of either of them again.\" His successor, Calvin Coolidge, was so obscure that Major League Baseball sent him free passes that misspelled his name, and a fire marshal failed to recognize him when Coolidge's Washington residence was evacuated.\n\nWhen the Whig Party asked Daniel Webster to run for the vice presidency on Zachary Taylor's ticket, he replied \"I do not propose to be buried until I am really dead and in my coffin.\" This was the second time Webster declined the office, which William Henry Harrison had first offered to him. Ironically, both of the presidents making the offer to Webster died in office, meaning the three-time presidential candidate could have become president if he had accepted either. Since presidents rarely died in office, however, the better preparation for the presidency was considered to be the office of Secretary of State, in which Webster served under Harrison, Tyler, and later, Taylor's successor, Fillmore.\n\nIn the first 100 years of the United States no fewer than seven proposals to amend the constitution to abolish the office of Vice President were advanced in the United States Congress. The first such amendment was presented by Samuel W. Dana in 1800 and was defeated by a vote of 27 to 85 in the United States House of Representatives. A second proposed amendment, introduced by United States Senator James Hillhouse in 1808 was also defeated. During the late-1860s and 1870s, five additional amendments were proposed. One supporter of the proposals, James Mitchell Ashley , opined that the office of Vice President was \"superfluous\" and dangerous.\n\nGarret Hobart, the first vice president under William McKinley, was one of the very few vice presidents at this time who played an important role in the administration. A close confidant and adviser of the president, Hobart was called \"Assistant President.\" However, until 1919, vice presidents were not included in meetings of the President's Cabinet. This precedent was broken by President Woodrow Wilson when he asked Thomas R. Marshall to preside over Cabinet meetings while Wilson was in France negotiating the Treaty of Versailles. President Warren G. Harding also invited his vice president, Calvin Coolidge, to meetings. The next vice president, Charles G. Dawes, did not seek to attend Cabinet meetings under President Coolidge, declaring that \"the precedent might prove injurious to the country.\" Vice President Charles Curtis was also precluded from attending by President Herbert Hoover.\n\nIn 1933, Franklin D. Roosevelt raised the stature of the office by renewing the practice of inviting the vice president to cabinet meetings, which every president since has maintained. Roosevelt's first vice president, John Nance Garner, broke with him over the \"court-packing\" issue, early in his second term, and became Roosevelt's leading critic. At the start of that term, on January 20, 1937, Garner had been the first Vice President to be sworn into office on the Capitol steps in the same ceremony with the president; a tradition that continues. Prior to that time, vice presidents were traditionally inaugurated at a separate ceremony in the Senate chamber. Gerald R. Ford and Nelson A. Rockefeller, who were both appointed to the office under the terms of the 25th amendment, were inaugurated in the House and Senate chambers, respectively.\n\nHenry Wallace, Roosevelt's vice president during his third term (1941–1945), was given major responsibilities during World War II. However, after numerous policy disputes between Wallace and other Roosevelt Administration and Democratic Party officials, he was denied renomination to office at the 1944 Democratic National Convention. Harry Truman was selected instead. During his day vice presidency, Truman was not informed about any war or post-war plans, including the Manhattan Project, leading Truman to remark, wryly, that the job of the Vice President was to \"go to weddings and funerals.\" As a result of this experience, Truman, after succeeding to the presidency upon Roosevelt's death, recognized the need to keep the Vice President informed on national security issues. Congress made the vice president one of four statutory members of the National Security Council in 1949.\n\nThe stature of the vice presidency grew again while Richard Nixon was in office (1953–1961). He attracted the attention of the media and the Republican party, when Dwight Eisenhower authorized him to preside at Cabinet meetings in his absence. Nixon was also the first vice president to formally assume temporary control of the executive branch, which he did after Eisenhower suffered a heart attack on September 24, 1955, ileitis in June 1956, and a stroke in November 1957.\n\nUntil 1961, vice presidents had their offices on Capitol Hill, a formal office in the Capitol itself and a working office in the Russell Senate Office Building. Lyndon B. Johnson was the first vice president to be given an office in the White House complex, in the Old Executive Office Building. The former Navy Secretary's office in the OEOB has since been designated the \"Ceremonial Office of the Vice President\" and is today used for formal events and press interviews. President Jimmy Carter was the first president to give his vice president, Walter Mondale, an office in the West Wing of the White House, which all vice presidents have since retained. Because of their function as Presidents of the Senate, vice presidents still maintain offices and staff members on Capitol Hill.\n\nThough Walter Mondale's tenure was the beginning of the modern day power of the vice presidency, the tenure of Dick Cheney saw a rapid growth in the office of the vice president. Vice President Cheney held a tremendous amount of power and frequently made policy decisions on his own, without the knowledge of the President. During the 2008 presidential campaign, both vice presidential candidates, Sarah Palin and Joe Biden, stated the office had expanded too much under Cheney's tenure and both claimed they would reduce the role to simply being an adviser to the president. This rapid growth has led to calls for abolition of the vice presidency from various constitutional scholars and political commentators such as: Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., Matthew Yglesias, and Bruce Ackerman.\n\nThere are currently (since November 30, 2018) five living former vice presidents. In order of service they are:\n\nSince 1977, former presidents and vice presidents who are elected or re-elected to the Senate are entitled to the largely honorific position of Deputy President pro tempore. To date, the only former vice president to have held this title is Hubert Humphrey following his return to the Senate. Also, under the terms of an 1886 Senate resolution, all former vice presidents are entitled to a portrait bust in the Senate wing of the United States Capitol, commemorating their service as presidents of the Senate. Dick Cheney is the most recent former vice president to be so honored.\n\nUnlike former presidents, whose pension is fixed at the same rate, regardless of their time in office, former vice presidents receive their retirement income based on their role as President of the Senate. Additionally, since 2008, each former vice president and their immediate family is entitled (under the \"Former Vice President Protection Act of 2008\") to Secret Service protection for up to six months after leaving office, and again temporarily at any time thereafter if warranted.\n\n\n"}
