{"id": "8717432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8717432", "title": "A New Philosophy of Society", "text": "A New Philosophy of Society\n\nA New Philosophy of Society: Assemblage Theory and Social Complexity is a 2006 book by Manuel DeLanda. The book is an attempt to loosely define a new ontology for use by social theorists — one that challenges the existing paradigm of meaningful social analyses being possible only on the level of either individuals (micro-reductionism) or \"society as a whole\" (macro-reductionism). Instead, the book employs Gilles Deleuze's theory of assemblages from \"A Thousand Plateaus\" (1980) to posit social entities on all scales (from sub-individual to transnational) that are best analysed through their components (themselves assemblages).\n\nComponents are characterized along two primary axes/dimensions: a material-expressive axis which defines the variable roles a component may play, and a territorializing-deterritorializing axis indicating processes in which a component is involved. These components are defined by relations of exteriority, that is, their \"role\" within a larger assemblage is not what defines them (this would be a relation of interiority). This means that a component is self-subsistent and may be \"unplugged\" from one assemblage and \"plugged\" into another without losing its identity. A third axis defines processes in which specialized expressive media (genetic/linguistic resources) intervene in \"coding\"/\"decoding\" the assemblage.\n\nAccording to DeLanda, following Deleuze's ideas of difference and repetition (what DeLanda calls \"variable repetition\"), assemblages necessarily exist in heterogeneous populations. The relationship between an assemblage and its components is complex and non-linear: assemblages are formed and affected by heterogeneous populations of lower-level assemblages, but may also act back upon these components, imposing restraints or adaptations in them.\n\nDeLanda merges Deleuze's ideas of both assemblages and strata into his model of assemblages, regarding the distinction as inconsequential in the context of \"A New Philosophy of Society\". He does however maintain the idea of assemblages as non-essentialist (they are historically contingent actual entities, not instances of ideal forms) and non-totalizing (assemblages are not seamless totalities but collections of heterogeneous components that should be analysed as such).\n\nAs an example of an assemblage (as defined by DeLanda) consider an ecosystem:\n\n\nConsistent with DeLanda's materialist position, the book also includes as a secondary task a sustained criticism of the primacy of post-modernist linguistic analysis in social science (the theory of the linguistics of experience).\n\nDeLanda, Manuel (2006) \"A New Philosophy of Society: assemblage theory and social complexity\", London & New York: Continuum\n"}
{"id": "91850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=91850", "title": "Bonnie Bassler", "text": "Bonnie Bassler\n\nBonnie Lynn Bassler, Ph.D (born 1962) is an American molecular biologist who revolutionized microbiology with her discovery of the use of chemical communication between bacteria known as quorum sensing, as well as the idea that disruption of chemical signaling could be used as an antimicrobial therapy. She is a professor at Princeton University and Howard Hughes Medical Institute in microbiology and virology with a research focus in cell-to-cell communication in bacteria . She received the Wiley Prize in Biomedical Sciences (2009), the Richard Lounsbery Award (2011), and the L’Oreal-UNESCO award (2012), the MacArthur Fellowship (2002), the Pearl Meister Greengard Prize (2016) for her paradigm-changing scientific research and was made a member of the Royal Society and the American Philosophical Society in 2012. She sits on the National Science Board and was nominated to that position by Barack Obama. \n\nBorn in Chicago and raised in Danville, California, Bassler received a Bachelor of Science in biochemistry from the University of California, Davis and a Ph.D. in biochemistry from Johns Hopkins University. She made key insights into the mechanism by which bacteria communicate, known as quorum sensing. Her postdoctoral research was conducted at Agouron Institute in genetics before joining the Princeton faculty in 1994. \n\nBassler was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 2006. She was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2007. In 2008, she received a special recognition from the World Cultural Council. She is an elected member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science since 2004, and a member in the American Philosophical Society since 2012.\n\nBonnie Bassler served as a president of the American Society for Microbiology in 2011.\n\nBonnie Bassler was nominated by President Barack Obama to the National Science Board, and she served in that role for six years (2010-2016).\n\nBassler has been nominated by the American Society for Microbiology to be one of the USA Science and Engineering Festival's Nifty Fifty Speakers who will speak about her work and career to middle and high school students in October 2010.\nThe Nifty Fifty is a collection of the most influential scientists and engineers in the United States, that are dedicated to reinvigorating the interest of young people in science and engineering. She has won the Wiley prize in Biomedical Sciences in 2009 for \"pioneering investigations of quorum sensing, a mechanism that allows bacteria to “talk” to each other to coordinate their behavior, even between species.\" In 2011, she won a Richard Lounsbery Award \"For her pioneering discoveries of the universal use of chemical communication among bacteria and the elucidation of structural and regulatory mechanisms controlling bacterial assemblies.\" Bonnie Bassler was named 2011 L'Oréal-UNESCO For Women in Science Awards Laureate for North America and received the Royal Society Fellowship Award the following year. She received honorary degrees from Tufts University and Bates College also in 2012. In 2014, Bassler was awarded the Excellence in Teaching Award and EMD Millipore Alice C. Evans Award both from the American Society for Microbiology and the Excellence in Teaching Award by Phi Beta Kappa. In 2015 she and Everett Peter Greenberg of the University of Washington were awarded the Shaw Prize in Life Science and Medicine \"for elucidating the molecular mechanism of quorum sensing, a process whereby bacteria communicate with each other and which offers innovative ways to interfere with bacterial pathogens or to modulate the microbiome for health applications.\" In 2016, Bonnie Bassler was awarded The FASEB Excellence in Science Award, the Greengard prize, and the Max Planck Research Award. In 2016, she also became an elected member of the National Academy of Medicine. Bassler was awarded the Dickson Prize and the Ernst Schering Prize in March and September of 2018 respectively. \n\n\nAdditional publications can be found on Bassler's Google Scholar page, as well as the Bassler Lab webpage. \n\n"}
{"id": "30369081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30369081", "title": "Boston Collaborative Encyclopedia of Western Theology", "text": "Boston Collaborative Encyclopedia of Western Theology\n\nThe Boston Collaborative Encyclopedia of Western Theology is a freely accessible encyclopedia composed mainly by graduate students of Boston University's Modern Western Theology seminars. It focuses on Christian theology, mainly from the Western world and is edited by Wesley J. Wildman, a professor at Boston University School of Theology. Several entries were consolidated from the work of multiple students by Derek Michaud.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42673705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42673705", "title": "Climate resilience", "text": "Climate resilience\n\nClimate resilience can be generally defined as the capacity for a socio-ecological system to: (1) absorb stresses and maintain function in the face of external stresses imposed upon it by climate change and (2) adapt, reorganize, and evolve into more desirable configurations that improve the sustainability of the system, leaving it better prepared for future climate change impacts. \n\nWith the rising awareness of climate change impacts by both national and international bodies, building climate resilience has become a major goal for these institutions. The key focus of climate resilience efforts is to address the vulnerability that communities, states, and countries currently have with regards to the environmental consequences of climate change. Currently, climate resilience efforts encompass social, economic, technological, and political strategies that are being implemented at all scales of society. From local community action to global treaties, addressing climate resilience is becoming a priority, although it could be argued that a significant amount of the theory has yet to be translated into practice. Despite this, there is a robust and ever-growing movement fueled by local and national bodies alike geared towards building and improving climate resilience.\n\nIn actuality, there is still a great deal of abstract discussion and debate regarding a number of subtle nuances associated with the precise definition of the climate resilience perspective, such as its relation to climate change adaptation, the extent to which it should encompass actor-based versus systems-based approaches to improving stability, and its relationship with the balance of nature theory or homeostatic equilibrium view of ecological systems. \n\nCurrently, the majority of work regarding climate resilience has been centered around examining the capacity for social-ecological systems to sustain shocks and maintain the integrity of functional relationships in the face of external forces. However, there is a growing consensus in academic literature which argues that greater attention needs to be focused on investigating the other critical aspect of climate resilience, which is the capacity for social-ecological systems to renew and develop, and to utilize disturbances as opportunities for innovation and evolution of new pathways that improve the system’s ability to adapt to macroscopic changes.\n\nThe fact that climate resilience encompasses a dual function, to absorb shock as well as to self-renew, is the primary means by which it can be differentiated from the concept of climate adaptation. In general, adaptation is viewed as a group of processes and actions that help a system absorb changes that have already occurred, or may be predicted to occur in the future. For the specific case of environmental change and climate adaptation, it is argued by many that adaptation should be defined strictly as encompassing only active decision-making processes and actions - in other words, deliberate changes made in response to climate change.\nOf course, this characterization is highly debatable: after all, adaptation can also be used to describe natural, involuntary processes by which organisms, populations, ecosystems and perhaps even social-ecological systems evolve after the application of certain external stresses. However, for the purposes of differentiating climate adaptation and climate resilience from a policymaking standpoint, we can contrast the active, actor-centric notion of adaptation with resilience, which would be a more systems-based approach to building social-ecological networks that are inherently capable of not only absorbing change, but utilizing those changes to develop into more efficient configurations.\n\nA conversation about climate resilience is incomplete without also incorporating the concepts of adaptations, vulnerability, and climate change. If the definition of resiliency is the ability to recover from a negative event, in this case climate change, then talking about preparations beforehand and strategies for recovery (aka adaptations), as well as populations that are more less capable of developing and implementing a resiliency strategy (aka vulnerable populations) are essential. This is framed under the assumed detrimental impacts of climate change to ecosystems and ecosystem services.\n\nClimate resilience is a relatively novel concept that is still in the process of being established by academia and policymaking institutions. However, the theoretical basis for many of the ideas central to climate resilience have actually existed since the 1960s. Originally an idea defined for strictly ecological systems, resilience was initially outlined by C.S. Holling as the capacity for ecological systems and relationships within those systems to persist and absorb changes to “state variables, driving variables, and parameters.”\n\nAs greater amounts of scientific research in ecological adaptation and natural resource management was conducted, it became clear that oftentimes, natural systems were subjected to dynamic, transient behaviors that changed how they reacted to significant changes in state variables: rather than work back towards a predetermined equilibrium, the absorbed change was harnessed to establish a new baseline to operate under. Rather than minimizes imposed changes, ecosystems could integrate and manage those changes, and use them fuel the evolution of novel characteristics. This new perspective of resilience as a concept that inherently works synergistically with elements of uncertainty and entropy first began to facilitate changes in the field of adaptive management and environmental resources, through work whose basis was built by Holling and colleagues yet again.\n\nBy the mid 1970s, resilience began gaining momentum as an idea in anthropology, culture theory, and other social sciences. Even more compelling is the fact that there was significant work in these relatively non-traditional fields that helped facilitate the evolution of the resilience perspective as a whole. Part of the reason resilience began moving away from an equilibrium-centric view and towards a more flexible, malleable description of social-ecological systems was due to work such as that of Andrew Vayda and Bonnie McCay in the field of social anthropology, where more modern versions of resilience were deployed to challenge traditional ideals of cultural dynamics.\nEventually by the late 1980s and early 1990s, resilience had fundamentally changed as a theoretical framework. Not only was it now applicable to social-ecological systems, but more importantly, resilience now incorporated and emphasized ideas of management, integration, and utilization of change rather than simply describing reactions to change. Resilience was no longer just about absorbing shocks, but also about harnessing the changes triggered by external stresses to catalyze the evolution the social-ecological system in question.\n\nAs the issues of global warming and climate change have gained traction and become more prominent since the early 1990s, the question of climate resilience has also emerged. Considering the global implications of the impacts induced by climate change, climate resilience has become a critical concept that scientific institutions, policymakers, governments, and international organizations have begun to rally around as a framework for designing the solutions that will be needed to address the effects of global warming.\n\nA climate resilience framework offers a rich plethora of contributions that can improve our understanding of environmental processes, and better equip governments and policymakers to develop sustainable solutions that combat the effects of climate change. To begin with, climate resilience establishes the idea of multi-stable socio-ecological systems. As discussed earlier, resilience originally began as an idea that extended from the stable equilibrium view – systems only acted to return to their pre-existing states when exposed to a disturbance. But with modern interpretations of resilience, it is now established that socio-ecological systems can actually stabilize around a multitude of possible states. Secondly, climate resilience has played a critical role in emphasizing the importance of preventive action when assessing the effects of climate change. Although adaptation is always going to be a key consideration, making changes after the fact has a limited capability to help communities and nations deal with climate change. By working to build climate resilience, policymakers and governments can take a more comprehensive stance that works to mitigate the harms of global warming impacts before they happen. \n\nFinally, a climate resilience perspective encourages greater cross-scale connectedness of systems. Climate change scholars have argued that solely relying on theories of adaptation is also limiting because inherently, this perspective does not necessitate as much full-system cohesion as a resilience perspective would. Creating mechanisms of adaptation that occur in isolation at local, state, or national levels may leave the overall social-ecological system vulnerable. A resilience-based framework would require far more cross-talk, and the creation of environmental protections that are more holistically generated and implemented.\n\nNegative impacts of climate change are those that are least capable of developing robust and comprehensive climate resiliency infrastructure and response systems. However what exactly constitutes a vulnerable community is still open to debate. \nThe International Panel on Climate Change has defined vulnerability using three characteristics: the “adaptive capacity, sensitivity, and exposure” to the effects of climate change. The adaptive capacity refers to a community’s capacity to create resiliency infrastructure, while the sensitivity and exposure elements are both tied to economic and geographic elements that vary widely in differing communities. There are, however, many commonalities between vulnerable communities.\n\nVulnerability can mainly be broken down into 2 major categories, economic vulnerability, based on socioeconomic factors, and geographic vulnerability. Neither are mutually exclusive.\n\nAt its basic level, a community that is economically vulnerable is one that is ill-prepared for the effects of climate change because it lacks the needed financial resources. Preparing a climate resilient society will require huge investments in infrastructure, city planning, engineering sustainable energy sources, and preparedness systems. From a global perspective, it is more likely that people living at or below poverty will be affected the most by climate change and are thus the most vulnerable, because they will have the least amount of resource dollars to invest in resiliency infrastructure. They will also have the least amount of resource dollars for cleanup efforts after more frequently occurring natural climate change related disasters.\n\nA second definition of vulnerability relates to geographic vulnerability. The most geographically vulnerable locations to climate change are those that will be impacted by side effects of natural hazards, such as rising sea levels and by dramatic changes in ecosystem services, including access to food. Island nations are usually noted as more vulnerable but communities that rely heavily on a sustenance based lifestyle are also at greater risk.\n\nRoger E. Kasperson and Jeanne X. Kasperson of the Stockholm Environmental Institute compiled a list of vulnerable communities as having one or more of these characteristics.\n\nEquity is another essential component of vulnerability and is closely tied to issues of environmental justice and climate justice. Who participates in and who has access to climate resiliency services and infrastructure are more than likely going to fall along historically unequitable patterns of distribution. As the most vulnerable communities are likely to be the most heavily impacted, a climate justice movement is coalescing in response. There are many aspects of climate justice that relate to resiliency and many climate justice advocates argue that justice should be an essential component of resiliency strategies. \nSimilar frameworks that have been applied to the Climate Justice movement can be utilized to address some of these equity issues. The frameworks are similar to other types of justice movements and include- contractariansim which attempts to allocate the most benefits for the poor, utilitarianism which seeks to find the most benefits for the most people, egalitarianism which attempts to reduce inequality, and libertarianism which emphasizes a fair share of burden but also individual freedoms.\n\nThe Act for Climate Justice Campaign has defined climate justice as “a vision to dissolve and alleviate the unequal burdens created by climate change. As a form of environmental justice, climate justice is the fair treatment of all people and freedom from discrimination with the creation of policies and projects that address climate change and the systems that create climate change and perpetuate discrimination”.\n\nClimate Justice can incorporate both grassroots as well as international and national level organizing movements.\n\nMany indigenous peoples live sustenance based lifestyles, relying heavily on local ecosystem services for their livelihoods. According to some definitions, indigenous peoples are often some of the most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change and advocating for participation of marginalized groups is one goal of the indigenous people’s climate justice movement. Climate change will likely dramatically alter local food production capacity, which will impact those people who are more dependent on local food sources and less dependent on global or regional food supplies. The greatest injustice is that people living this type of lifestyle are least likely to have contributed to the causes of global climate change in the first place. Indigenous peoples movements often involve protests and calling on action from world leaders to address climate change concerns.\n\nAnother local level climate justice movement is the adaptation finance approach which has been found in some studies to be a positive solution by providing resource dollars directly to communities in need.\n\nThe carbon market approach is one international and national concept proposed that tries to solve the issue by using market forces to make carbon use less affordable, but vulnerable host communities that are the intended beneficiaries have been found to receive little to no benefit. One problem noted with the carbon market approach is the inherent conflict of interest embedded between developed and sustenance based communities. Developed nations that have often prioritized growth of their own gross national product over implementing changes that would address climate change concerns by taxing carbon which might damage GDP. In addition the pace of change necessary to implement a carbon market approach is too slow to be effective at most international and national policy levels.\n\nAlternatively, a study by V.N Mather, et al. proposes a multi-level approach that focuses on addressing some primary issues concerning climate justice at local and international levels. The approach includes:\n\nThe issue of environmental justice and climate justice is relevant within the United States because historically communities of color and low socioeconomic communities have been under served and underrepresented in terms of distribution and participation. The question of “by and for whom” resiliency strategies are targeted and implemented is of great concern. Inadequate response and resiliency strategies to recent natural disasters in communities of color, such as Hurricane Katrina, are examples of environmental injustices and inadequate resilience strategies in already vulnerable communities.\n\nThe National Association for the Advancement of Colored PeopleNAACP has recently begun a Climate Justice campaign in response to events such as Hurricane Katrina and in preparation for future climate change related natural disasters. The goal of this campaign is to address the 3 R’s of climate justice: resilience, resistance, and revisioning. The NAACP’s climate justice initiative will address climate resilience through advocacy, outreach, political actions, research and education.\n\nAnother concept important for understanding vulnerability in the United States is the climate gap. The climate gap is the inequitably negative impact on poor people and people of color due to the effects of climate change. Some of these negative impacts include higher cost of living expenses, higher incidences of heat related health consequences in urban areas that are likely to experience urban heat island effects, increased pollution in urban areas, and decreases in available jobs for poor people and people of color. Some suggested solutions to close the climate gap include suggesting legislative policies that would reduce the impact of climate change by reducing carbon emissions with the emphasis of reductions in greenhouse gas emissions and toxic air pollution in neighborhoods that are already heavily impacted, usually urban centers. Other solutions include increasing access to quality health care for poor people and people of color, preparedness planning for urban heat island effects, identifying neighborhoods that are most likely to be impacted, investing in alternative fuel and energy research, and measuring the results of policy impacts.\n\nAs the threat of environmental disturbances due to climate change becomes more and more relevant, so does the need for strategies to build a more resilient society. As climate resiliency literature has revealed, there are different strategies and suggestions that all work towards the overarching goal of building and maintaining societal resiliency.\n\nThere is increasing concern on an international level with regards to addressing and combating the impending implications of climate change for urban areas, where populations of these cities around the world are growing disproportionately high. There is even more concern for the rapidly growing urban centers in developing countries, where the majority of urban inhabitants are poor or “otherwise vulnerable to climate-related disturbances.” Urban centers around the world house important societal and economic sectors, so resiliency framework has been augmented to specifically include and focus on protecting these urban systems.\n\nThe Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) defines resilience as “the ability of a social or ecological system to absorb disturbances while retaining the same basic structure and ways of functioning, the capacity of self-organization, and the capacity to adapt to stress and change.” One of the most important notions emphasized in urban resiliency theory is the need for urban systems to increase their capacity to absorb environmental disturbances. By focusing on three generalizable elements of the resiliency movement, Tyler and Moench’s urban resiliency framework serves as a model that can be implemented for local planning on an international scale.\n\nThe first element of urban climate resiliency focuses on “systems’ or the physical infrastructure embedded in urban systems. A critical concern of urban resiliency is linked to the idea of maintaining support systems that in turn enable the networks of provisioning and exchange for populations in urban areas. These systems concern both physical infrastructure in the city and ecosystems within or surrounding the urban center; while working to provide essential services like food production, flood control, or runoff management. For example, city electricity, a necessity of urban life, depends on the performance of generators, grids, and distant reservoirs. The failure of these core systems jeopardizes human well-being in these urban areas, with that being said, it is crucial to maintain them in the face of impending environmental disturbances. Societies need to build resiliency into these systems in order to achieve such a feat. Resilient systems work to “ensure that functionality is retained and can be re-instated through system linkages” despite some failures or operational disturbances. Ensuring the functionality of these important systems is achieved through instilling and maintaining flexibility in the presence of a “safe failure.” Resilient systems achieve flexibility by making sure that key functions are distributed in a way that they would not all be affected by a given event at one time, what is often referred to as spatial diversity, and has multiple methods for meeting a given need, what is often referred to as functional diversity. The presence of safe failures also plays a critical role in maintaining these systems, which work by absorbing sudden shocks that may even exceed design thresholds. Environmental disturbances are certainly expected to challenge the dexterity of these systems, so the presence of safe failures almost certainly appears to be a necessity.\n\nFurther, another important component of these systems is bounce-back ability. In the instance where dangerous climatic events affect these urban centers, recovering or \"bouncing-back\" is of great importance. In fact, in most disaster studies, urban resilience is often defined as \"the capacity of a city to rebound from destruction.\" This idea of bounce-back for urban systems is also engrained in governmental literature of the same topic. For example, the former government's first Intelligence and Security Coordinator of the United States described urban resilience as \"the capacity to absorb shocks and to bounce back into functioning shape, or at the least, sufficient resilience to prevent...system collapse.\" Keeping these quotations in mind, bounce-back discourse has been and should continue to be an important part of urban climate resiliency framework. Other theorists have critiqued this idea of bounce-back, citing this as privileging the status quo, rather advocating the notion of ‘bouncing forward’, permitting system evolution and improvement.\n\nThe next element of urban climate resiliency focuses on the social agents (also described as social actors) present in urban centers. Many of these agents depend on the urban centers for their very existence, so they share a common interest of working towards protecting and maintaining their urban surroundings. Agents in urban centers have the capacity to deliberate and rationally make decisions, which plays an important role in climate resiliency theory. One cannot overlook the role of local governments and community organizations, which will be forced to make key decisions with regards to organizing and delivering key services and plans for combating the impending effects of climate change. Perhaps most importantly, these social agents must increase their capacities with regards to the notions of “resourcefulness and responsiveness. Responsiveness refers to the capacity of social actors and groups to organize and re-organize, as well as the ability to anticipate and plan for disruptive events. Resourcefulness refers to the capacity of social actors in urban centers to mobilize varying assets and resources in order to take action. Urban centers will be able to better fend for themselves in the heat of climatic disturbances when responsiveness and resourcefulness is collectively achieved in an effective manner.\n\nThe final component of urban climate resiliency concerns the social and political institutions present in urban environments. Governance, the process of decision making, is a critical element affecting climate resiliency. As climate justice has revealed, the individual areas and countries that are least responsible for the phenomenon of climate change are also the ones who are going to be most negatively affected by future environmental disturbances. The same is true in urban centers. Those who are most responsible for climate change are going to disproportionately feel the negative effects of climatic disturbances when compared to their poorer, more vulnerable counterparts in society. Just like the wealthier countries have worked to create the most pollution, the wealthier subpopulations of society who can afford carbon-emitting luxuries like cars and homes undoubtedly produce a much more significant carbon footprint. It is also important to note that these more vulnerable populations, because of their inferior social statuses, are unable to participate in the decision-making processes with regards to these issues. Decision-making processes must be augmented to be more participatory and inclusive, allowing those individuals and groups most affected by environmental disturbances to play an active role in determining how to best avoid them. Another important role of these social and political institutions will concern the dissemination of public information. Individual communities who have access to timely information with regards to hazards are better able to respond to these threats.\n\nGlobal climate change is going to increase the probability of extreme weather events and environmental disturbances around the world, needless to say, future human populations are going to have to confront this issue. Every society around the world differs in its capacity with regards to combating climate change because of certain pre-existing factors such as having the proper monetary and institutional mechanisms in place to execute preparedness and recovery plans. Despite these differences, communities around the world are on a level-playing field with regards to building and maintaining at least some degree “human resilience”.\n\nResilience has two components: that provided by nature, and that provided through human action and interaction. An example of climate resilience provided by nature is the manner in which porous soil more effectively allows for the drainage of flood water than more compact soil. An example of human action that affects climate resilience would be the facilitation of response and recovery procedures by social institutions or organizations. This theory of human resilience largely focuses on the human populations and calls for building towards the overall goal of decreasing human vulnerability in the face of climate change and extreme weather events. Vulnerability to climatic disturbances has two sides: the first deals with the degree of exposure to dangerous hazards, which one can effectively identify as susceptibility. The second side deals with the capacity to recover from disaster consequences, or resilience in other words. The looming threat of environmental disturbances and extreme weather events certainly calls for some action, and human resiliency theory seeks to solve the issue by largely focusing on decreasing the vulnerability of human populations.\n\nHow do human populations work to decrease their vulnerability to impending and dangerous climatic events? Up until recently, the international approach to environmental emergencies focused largely on post-impact activities such as reconstruction and recovery. However, the international approach is changing to a more comprehensive risk assessment that includes “pre-impact disaster risk reduction - prevention, preparedness, and mitigation.” In the case of human resiliency, preparedness can largely be defined as the measures taken in advance to ensure an effective response to the impact of environmental hazards. Mitigation, when viewed in this context, refers to the structural and nonstructural measures undertaken to limit the adverse impacts of climatic disturbances. This is not to be confused to mitigation with regards to the overall topic of climate change, which refers to reduction of carbon or greenhouse emissions. By accounting for these impending climate disasters both before and after the occur, human populations are able to decrease their vulnerability to these disturbances.\n\nA major element of building and maintaining human resilience is public health. The institution of public health as a whole is uniquely placed at the community level to foster human resilience to climate-related disturbances. As an institution, public health can play an active part in reducing human vulnerability by promoting “healthy people and healthy homes.”) Healthy people are less likely to suffer from disaster-related mortality and are therefore viewed as more disaster-resilient. Healthy homes are designed and built to maintain its structure and withstand extreme climate events. By merely focusing on the individual health of populations and assuring the durability of the homes that house these populations, at least some degree human resiliency towards climate change can be achieved.\n\nThe building of climate resilience is a highly comprehensive undertaking that involves of an eclectic array of actors and agents: individuals, community organizations, micropolitical bodies, corporations, governments at local, state, and national levels as well as international organizations. In essence, actions that bolster climate resilience are ones that will enhance the adaptive capacity of social, industrial, and environmental infrastructures that can mitigate the effects of climate change.\nTherefore, it can be seen that embedded within the task of building climate resilience at any scale will be the overcoming of macroscopic socioeconomic inequities: in many ways, truly facilitating the construction of climate resilient communities worldwide will require national and international agencies to address issues of global poverty, industrial development, and food justice. However, this does not mean that actions to improve climate resilience cannot be taken in real time at all levels, although evidence suggests that the most climate resilient cities and nations have accumulated this resilience through their responses to previous weather-based disasters. Perhaps even more importantly, empirical evidence suggests that the creation of the climate resilient structures is dependent upon an array of social and environmental reforms that were only successfully passed due to the presence of certain sociopolitical structures such as democracy, activist movements, and decentralization of government.\nThus it can be seen that to build climate resilience one must work within a network of related social and economic decisions that can have adverse effects on the success of a resilience effort given the competing interests participating in the discussion. Given this, it is clear that the social and economic scale play a vital role in shaping the feasibility, costs, empirical success, and efficiency of climate resilience initiatives. There is a wide variety of actions that can be pursued to improve climate resilience at multiple scales – the following subsections we will review a series of illustrative case studies and strategies from a broad diversity of societal contexts that are currently being implemented to strengthen climate resilience.\n\nHousing inequality is directly related to the ability for individuals and communities to sustain adverse impacts brought on by extreme weather events that are triggered by climate change, such as severe winds, storms, and flooding. Especially for communities in developing nations and the Third World, the integrity of housing structures is one of the most significant sources of vulnerability currently. \nEfforts to improve the resiliency of housing and workplace buildings involves not only fortifying these buildings through use of updated materials and foundation, but also establishing better standards that ensure safer and health conditions for occupants. Better housing standards are in the course of being established through calls for sufficient space, natural lighting, provision for heating or cooling, insulation, and ventilation. Another major issue faced more commonly by communities in the Third World are highly disorganized and inconsistently enforced housing rights systems. In countries such as Kenya and Nicaragua, local militias or corrupted government bodies that have reserved the right to seizure of any housing properties as needed: the end result is the degradation of any ability for citizens to develop climate resilient housing – without property rights for their own homes, the people are powerless to make changes to their housing situation without facing potentially harmful consequences.\n\nModern climate resilience scholars have noted that contrary to conventional beliefs, the communities that have been most effective in establishing high levels of climate resilience have actually done so through “bottom-up” political pressures. “Top-down” approaches involving state or federal level decisions have empirically been marred with dysfunction across different levels of government due to internal mismanagement and political gridlock.\n\nDue to their compact size, local level micropolitical bodies can act quickly without much stagnation and resistance from larger special interests that can generate bureaucratic dysfunction at higher levels of government.\n\nEqually important to building climate resilience has been the wide array of basic technological solutions have been developed and implemented at community levels. In developing countries such as Mozambique and Tanzania, the construction of concrete “breaker” walls and concentrated use of sandbags in key areas such as housing entrances and doorways has improved the ability of communities to sustain the damages yielded by extreme weather events. Additional strategies have included digging homemade drainage systems to protect local infrastructure of extensive water damage and flooding. \n\nIn more urban areas, construction of a “green belt” on the peripheries of cities has become increasingly common. Green belts are being used as means of improving climate resilience – in addition to provide natural air filtering, these belts of trees have proven to be a healthier and sustainable means of mitigating the damages created by heavy winds and storms.\n\nAt larger governmental levels, general programs to improve climate resiliency through greater disaster preparedness are being implemented. For example, in cases such as Norway, this includes the development of more sensitive and far-reaching early warning systems for extreme weather events, creation of emergency electricity power sources, enhanced public transportation systems, and more. \nTo examine another case study, the state California in the US has been pursuing more comprehensive federal financial aid systems for communities afflicted by natural disaster, spurred in part by the large amounts of criticism that was placed on the US federal government after what was perceived by many to be a mishandling of Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Sandy relief. \n\nAdditionally, a key focus of action at state and federal levels is in improving water management infrastructure and access. Strategies include the creation of emergency drinking water supplies, stronger sanitation technology and standards, as well as more extensive and efficient networks of water delivery.\n\nClimate resilience literature has also noted that one of the more indirect sources of resilience actually lies in the strength of the social services and social safety net that is provided for citizens by public institutions. This is an especially critical aspect of climate resilience in more socioeconomically disadvantaged communities, cities, and nations. It has been empirically found that places with stronger systems of social security and pensions oftentimes have better climate resiliency.\n\nAt the global level, most action towards climate resilience has been manifested in the signing of international agreements that set up guidelines and frameworks to address the impacts of climate change. Notable examples include the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC), the 1997 Kyoto Protocol to the UNFCCC, and the 2010 Cancun Agreement.\nIn some cases, as is the case with the Kyoto Protocol for example, these international treaties involve placing legally binding requirements on participant nations to reduce processes that contribute to global warming such as greenhouse gas emissions.\nIn other cases, such as the 2010 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Cancun, proposals for the creation of international funding pools to assist developing nations in combating climate change are seen.\nHowever, that enforcement of any of the requirements or principles that are established in such international treaties has ambiguous: for example, although the 2010 Cancun conference called for the creation of a 100 billion dollar “Green Climate Fund” for developing nations, if and how this fund will actually be created still remains unclear.\n\nAs the looming threat of climate change and environmental disturbances becomes more and more immediate, so does the need for policy to combat the issue. As a relatively new phenomenon, climate change has yet to receive the political attention it deserves. However, the climate justice and climate change movements are gaining momentum on an international scale as both grass roots campaigns and supranational organizations begin to gain influence. However, the most significant and impacting changes come from national and state governments around the world, as they have the political and monetary power to more effectively enforce their proposals.\n\nAs it stands today, there is no country-wide legislation with regards to the topic of climate resiliency in the United States. However, in mid February 2014, President Barack Obama announced his plan to propose a $1 billion “Climate Resilience Fund”. The details of exactly what the fund will seek to accomplish are vague since the fund is only in the stage of being proposed for Congress’s approval in 2015. However, in the speech given the day of the announcement of this proposal, Obama claimed he will request “...new funding for new technologies to help communities prepare for a changing climate, set up incentives to build smarter, more resilient infrastructure. And finally, my administration will work with tech innovators and launch new challenges under our Climate Data Initiative, focused initially on rising sea levels and their impact on the coasts, but ultimately focused on how all these changes in weather patterns are going to have an impact up and down the United States - not just on the coast but inland as well - and how do we start preparing for that.” Obama’s fund incorporates facets of both urban resiliency and human resiliency theories, by necessarily improving communal infrastructure and by focusing on societal preparation to decrease the country’s vulnerability to the impacts of climate change.\n\nPhoenix’s large population and extremely dry climate make the city particularly vulnerable to the threats of drought and extreme heat. However, the city has recently incorporated climate change into current (and future) water management and urban design. And by doing so, Phoenix has taken steps to ensure sustainable water supplies and to protect populations that are vulnerable to extreme heat, largely through improving the sustainability and efficiency of communal infrastructure. For example, Phoenix uses renewable surface water supplies and reserves groundwater for use during the instance when extended droughts arise. The city is also creating a task force to redesign the downtown core to minimize the way buildings trap heat and increase local temperatures. \n\nThe city of Denver has made recent strides to combat the threat of extreme wildfires and precipitation events. In the year 1996, a fire burned nearly 12,000 acres around Buffalo Creek, which serves as the main source of the city’s water supply. Two months following this devastating wildfire, heavy thunderstorms caused flash floods in the burned area, having the effect of washing sediment into the city’s reservoir. In fact, this event washed more sediment into the reservoir than had accumulated in the 13 years prior. Water treatment costs were estimated to be $20 million over the next decade following the event. Denver needed a plan to make sure that the city would not be devastated by future wildfire and flash flood events. DenverWater and the U.S. Forest Service Rocky Mountain Region are working together to restore more than 40,000 acres of National Forests lands through processes like reforestation, erosion control, and the decommissioning of roads. Further, Denver has installed sensors in the reservoirs in order to monitor the quality of the water and quantity of debris or sediment. These accomplishments will have the effect of building a more resilient Denver, Colorado towards the impending increase of extreme weather events such as wildfire and flooding.\n\nChina has been rapidly emerging as a new superpower, rivaling the United States. As the most populated country in the world, and one of the leaders of the global economy, China’s response to the impending effects of climate change is of great concern for the entire world. A number of significant changes are expected to affect China as the looming threat of climate change becomes more and more imminent. Here’s just one example; China has experienced a seven-fold increase in the frequency of floods since the 1950s, rising every decade. The frequency of extreme rainfall has increased and is predicted to continue to increase in the western and southern parts of China. The country is currently undertaking efforts to reduce the threat of these floods (which have the potential effect of completely destroying vulnerable communities), largely focusing on improving the infrastructure responsible for tracking and maintaining adequate water levels. That being said, the country is promoting the extension of technologies for water allocation and water-saving mechanisms. In the country’s National Climate Change Policy Program, one of the goals specifically set out is to enhance the ability to bear the impacts of climate change, as well as to raise the public awareness on climate change. China’s National Climate Change Policy states that it will integrate climate change policies into the national development strategy. In China, this national policy comes in the form of its \"Five Year Plans for Economic and Social Development\". China’s Five Year Plans serve as the strategic road maps for the country’s development. The goals spelled out in the Five Year Plans are mandatory as government officials are held responsible for meeting the targets.\n\nAs the world’s second most populous country, India is taking action on a number of fronts in order to address poverty, natural resource management, as well as preparing for the inevitable effects of climate change. India has made significant strides in the energy sector and the country is now a global leader in renewable energy. In 2011 India achieved a record $10.3 billion (USD) in clean energy investments, which the country is now using to fund solar, wind, and hydropower projects around the country. In 2008, India published its National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC), which contains several goals for the country. These goals include but are not limited to: covering one third of the country with forests and trees, increasing renewable energy supply to 6% of total energy mix by 2022, and the further maintenance of disaster management. All of the actions work to improve the resiliency of the country as a whole, and this proves to be important because India has an economy closely tied to its natural resource base and climate-sensitive sectors such as agriculture, water, and forestry.\n"}
{"id": "2094518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2094518", "title": "Connotation (semiotics)", "text": "Connotation (semiotics)\n\nIn semiotics, connotation arises when the denotative relationship between a signifier and its signified is inadequate to serve the needs of the community. A second level of meanings is termed connotative. These meanings are not objective representations of the \"thing\", but new usages produced by the language group.\n\nDrawing from the original definition proposed by Saussure (1857–1913), a sign has two parts:\nConnotative meanings are developed by the community and do not represent the inherent qualities of the thing or concept originally signified as the meaning. The addition of such meanings introduces complexity into the coding system. If a signifier has only a single denotational meaning, the use of the sign will always be unambiguously decoded by the audience. But connotative meanings are context-dependent, i.e. the addresser must learn how to match the meaning intended by the addresser to one of the various possible meanings held in memory. \n\nThe power of connotation is that it enables the addresser to more easily consider abstract concepts and to introduce subtlety into the discourse. For example, a digital thermometer produces a numerical value that indicates the current state of a specific operational parameter. This technology provides an \"indexical\" sign of heat (adopting the classification of Charles Sanders Peirce (1839–1914), an indexical sign by real connection between the signifier and the signified). The number is a denotative value, i.e. it speaks only for itself. The doctor, nurse or patient will relate to the number as a visual trope, in this case a metaphor, for the health of the body. Such information adds to other data forming a symptomology for the patient, a summation that takes place at a connotative cognitive level. Hence, the meanings as to health or illness are selected from the connotational framework which the interpreter has constructed through training and experience given that each possible state of well-being is represented by a cluster of symbolic attributes, one of which is the patient's temperature.\n\nConnotation is concerned with how the sign system is used in each message. The semantic content is selected by the addresser and represents that individual's values and intentions. Limiting an analysis purely to the sign system comprised by paradigms and syntagms excludes key elements in the interpretive process. Thus, subjective tests such as the commutation test have been developed to map connotations and so decode more of the addresser's intentions. This is achieved by changing the form of the signifiers, by substituting signifiers to assess what the alternative connotations would be and by considering what signifiers are absent and why their absences might be significant. Changes of form would require substituting different fonts for the same text, or different colours or designs for the same visual content. The use of synonyms and antonyms clarifies connotational choices as between, say, pejorative and euphemistic usages. As to absences, if a modern image of a group of people employed in a major public enterprise only contains individuals of the same gender and ethnicity, the analyst would enquire into the significance of the exclusion of those of the opposite gender and a different ethnicity. The editorial decision may be supporting social values, attitudes and beliefs that are embedded into the culture—for example, that nations ought to conscript only men to serve on the front-lines of a war. Other explanations of different contexts may expose cultural myths and prejudices which are less reasonable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3634350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3634350", "title": "Counting sheep", "text": "Counting sheep\n\nCounting sheep is a mental exercise used in some cultures as a means of putting oneself to sleep. \n\nIn most depictions of the activity, the practitioner envisions an endless series of identical white sheep jumping over a fence, while counting them as they do so. The idea, presumably, is to induce boredom while occupying the mind with something simple, repetitive, and rhythmic, all of which are known to help humans sleep.\n\nAlthough the practice is largely a stereotype, and rarely used as a solution for insomnia, it has been so commonly referenced by cartoons, comic strips, and other mass media, that it has become deeply engrained into popular culture's notion of sleep. The term \"counting sheep\" has entered the English language as an idiomatic term for insomnia. Sheep themselves have become associated with sleep, or lack thereof. \n\nThe effectiveness of the method may depend upon the mental power required. An experiment conducted by researchers at Oxford University, though not involving livestock as the object of visualization, found that subjects who imagined \"a beach or a waterfall\" were forced to expend more mental energy, and fell asleep faster, than those asked to \"simply distract from thoughts, worries and concerns.\" Sleep could be achieved by any number of complex activities that expend mental energy.\n\nAn early reference to counting sheep as a means of attaining sleep can be found in \"Illustrations of Political Economy\" by Harriet Martineau, from 1832:\n\"It was a sight of monotony to behold one sheep after another follow the adventurous one, each in turn placing its fore-feet on the breach in the fence, bringing up its hind legs after it, looking around for an instant from the summit, and then making the plunge into the dry ditch, tufted with locks of wool. The process might have been more composing if the field might have been another man's property, or if the flock had making its way out instead of in; but the recollection of the scene of transit served to send the landowner to sleep more than once, when occurring at the end of the train of anxious thoughts which had kept him awake.\" (p. 355–356)\n\nAn even earlier reference can be found in \"Don Quixote\" by Miguel de Cervantes, from 1605 (the exception being Cervantes substituting \"goats\" for \"sheep\"): \n\"Let your worship keep count of the goats the fisherman is taking across, for if one escapes the memory there will be an end of the story, and it will be impossible to tell another word of it.\" \n\nCervantes probably adapted the story of counting goats from a story of counting sheep in the early twelfth-century Spanish work Disciplina Clericalis. The section The King and his Story-teller (section 12) uses the idea of counting sheep humorously. Disciplina Clericalis draws mainly on literary sources from the Islamic world. Counting sheep was probably a widely recognized practice in the Islamic world before the early twelfth century.\n\nSerta, an American mattress manufacturer has had their own herd of \"Counting Sheep\" used in advertisements for the company since at least 2000 and have even sold plush toys of the sheep.\n\n\"Shaun the Sheep\" entitled its 2012 series \"Championsheeps\" to celebrate the London Olympics. The episode \"Steeplechase\" featured Shaun and his fellow sheep participating in the steeplechase event. Blitzer the dog, who was referee, and the other sheep and farm animals, who were spectators, all fall asleep watching Shaun and the other sheep running around the track and jumping over the hurdles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46420351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46420351", "title": "David Greetham (textual scholar)", "text": "David Greetham (textual scholar)\n\nDavid Greetham (born October 21, 1941) is an Anglo-American literary critic and the founder of the Society for Textual Scholarship.\n\nGreetham received his undergraduate degree from the University of Oxford in 1963 and completed his Ph.D. in English at the City University of New York.\n\nMarta Werner of D'Youville College describes Greetham as \"drawn to texts that spill over the boundaries of genre, that exist in multiple versions, that explore intertextuality, and that complicate in various other ways the notion of text as fixed or stable.\" In his works, Greetham has sought to co-opt \"the terminology\nand practice of literary theory in re-designating textual operations in\nthe guise of ... literature, anthropology, sociology,\ngender studies, history, political science, linguistics, psychology, [and]\nphilosophy.\"\n\nAs a theorist of scholarly editing, Greetham has taken up a middle ground between intentionalist positions like that of G. Thomas Tanselle and the social textual criticism of Jerome McGann, maintaining the goal of establishing an authoritative text while allowing the possibility that multiple authorized versions can exist. In his later work, Greetham has moved away from the idea that an editor can establish a \"psychic\" connection with the author through which he or she can determine the author's true intentions, instead seeing editing as an occasion for reflections on the ideology underlying scholarly practice.\n\nGreetham was one of the founders of the Society for Textual Scholarship and served as the Society's President from 1999 to 2001. Founded in 1979, the Society provides an interdisciplinary forum for presentation of research in a number of textual disciplines. Notable past members have included G. Thomas Tanselle, Paul Oskar Kristeller, Fredson Bowers, and Jerome McGann.\n\n"}
{"id": "1820506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820506", "title": "David Ray Griffin", "text": "David Ray Griffin\n\nDavid Ray Griffin (born August 8, 1939 in Wilbur, Washington) is a retired American professor of philosophy of religion and theology, and a political writer. Along with John B. Cobb, Jr., he founded the Center for Process Studies in 1973, a research center of Claremont School of Theology which seeks to promote the common good by means of the relational approach found in process thought. Griffin has published a number of books on the subject of the September 11 attacks, suggesting that there was a conspiracy involving some elements of the United States government.\n\nDavid Ray Griffin is a longtime resident of Santa Barbara, California and was a full-time academic from 1973 until April 2004. He is currently a co-director of the Center for Process Studies and is one of the foremost contemporary exponents of process theology, founded on the process philosophy of Alfred North Whitehead and Charles Hartshorne.\n\nGriffin grew up in a small town in Oregon, where he was an active participant in his Disciples of Christ church. After deciding to become a minister, Griffin entered Northwest Christian College but became disenchanted with the conservative-fundamentalist theology that was taught there. While getting his master's degree in counseling from the University of Oregon, Griffin attended a lecture series delivered by Paul Tillich at the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, California. At this time, Griffin made his decision to focus on philosophical theology. He eventually attended the Claremont Graduate University, where Griffin received his Ph.D. in 1970.\n\nAs a student in Claremont, Griffin was initially interested in Eastern religions, particularly Vedanta. However, he started to become a process theologian while attending John B. Cobb's seminar on Whitehead's philosophy. According to Griffin, process theology, as presented by Cobb, \"provided a way between the old supernaturalism, according to which God miraculously interrupted the normal causal processes now and then, and a view according to which God is something like a cosmic hydraulic jack, exerting the same pressure always and everywhere (which described rather aptly the position to which I had come)\" (\"Primordial Truth and Postmodern Theology\"). Griffin applied Whitehead's thought to the traditional theological subjects of christology and theodicy and argued that process theology also provided a sound basis for addressing contemporary social and ecological issues.\n\nAfter teaching theology and Eastern religions at the University of Dayton, Griffin came to appreciate the distinctively postmodern aspects of Whitehead's thought. In particular, Griffin found Whitehead's nonsensationist epistemology and panexperientialist ontology immensely helpful in addressing the major problems of modern philosophy, including the problems of mind-body interaction, the interaction between free and determined things, the emergence of experience from nonexperiencing matter, and the emergence of time in the evolutionary process. In 1973, Griffin returned to Claremont to establish, with Cobb, the Center for Process Studies at the Claremont School of Theology.\n\nWhile on research leave in 1980–81 at Cambridge University and Berkeley, the contrast between modernity and postmodernity became central to his work. Many of Griffin's writings are devoted to developing postmodern proposals for overcoming the conflicts between religion and modern science. Griffin came to believe that much of the tension between religion and science was not only the result of reactionary supernaturalism but also the mechanistic worldview associated with the rise of modern science in the seventeenth century. In 1983, Griffin started the Center for a Postmodern World in Santa Barbara and became editor of the SUNY Series in Constructive Postmodern Philosophy between 1987 and 2004.\n\nFollowing the September 11 attacks, David Ray Griffin moved his focus from questions of philosophy and religion to ones of politics and history, specifically American expansionism and imperialism. He intended to write a book on the subject, presenting 9/11 in terms of \"blowback\" for aggressive United States foreign policies of the 20th century:\n\nUntil the spring of 2003, I had not looked at any of the evidence. I was vaguely aware there were people, at least on the internet, who were offering evidence against the official account of 9/11... I knew the US government had 'fabricated' evidence to go to war several times before. Nevertheless... I did not take this possibility seriously... I was so confident that they must be wrong.\nAfter reading the work of Paul Thompson and Nafeez Ahmed, he became convinced that there was a \"prima facie\" case for the contention that there must have been complicity from individuals within the United States and joined the 9/11 Truth Movement in calling for an extensive investigation from the United States media, Congress and the 9/11 Commission. At this time, he set about writing his first book on the subject, which he called \"The New Pearl Harbor: Disturbing Questions About the Bush Administration and 9/11\" (2004).\n\nPart One of the book looks at the events of 9/11, discussing each flight in turn and also the behaviour of President George W. Bush and his Secret Service protection. Part Two examines 9/11 in a wider context, in the form of four \"disturbing questions.\" David Ray Griffin discussed this book and the claims within it in an interview with Nick Welsh, reported under the headline \"Thinking Unthinkable Thoughts: Theologian Charges White House Complicity in 9/11 Attack\".\n\nCritics of Griffin's thesis, such as neoliberal activist Chip Berlet, have said that many of the claims in the book are refutable. Griffin has rejected these criticisms and debated Berlet.\n\nGriffin's second book on the subject was a direct critique of the 9/11 Commission Report, called \"The 9/11 Commission Report: Omissions And Distortions\" (2005). Griffin's article \"The 9/11 Commission Report: A 571-page Lie\" summarizes this book, presenting 115 instances of either omissions or distortions of evidence he claims are in the report, stating that \"the entire Report is constructed in support of one big lie: that the official story about 9/11 is true.\"\n\nIn his next book, \"Christian Faith and the Truth Behind 9/11: A Call to Reflection and Action\" (2006), he summarizes some of what he believes is evidence for government complicity and reflects on its implications for Christians. The Presbyterian Publishing Corporation, publishers of the book, noted that Griffin is a distinguished theologian and praised the book's religious content, but said, \"The board believes the conspiracy theory is spurious and based on questionable research.\"\n\nIn 2006, Griffin, along with Peter Dale Scott, edited \"9/11 and the American Empire: Intellectuals Speak Out\", a collection of essays including Steven Jones' paper \"Why Indeed Did The World Trade Center Towers Collapse?\". \"Debunking 9/11 Debunking\" (2007) looks at the way mainstream media such as \"Popular Mechanics\" have sought to debunk the alternative 9/11 theories and the tactics he claims they employ to persuade the reader that they have done so. In \"9/11 Contradictions: An Open Letter to Congress and the Press\" (2008), he presents chapters on 25 alleged contradictions involving elements of the \"accepted story\" of 9/11 and calls for Congress and the press to investigate and resolve them.\n\nDavid Ray Griffin has delivered several lectures that are popular within the 9/11 Truth Movement and has given interviews on alternative media shows such as \"The Alex Jones Show\". A lecture entitled \"9/11 and American Empire: How should religious people respond?\", delivered on April 18, 2005, at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, was aired by C-SPAN. At the end of one of his lectures entitled \"9/11: The Myth and the Reality\" Griffin was asked why a theologian would take such an interest in 9/11, to which he replied: \"If 9/11 is not a religious issue, then I don't know what is.\"\n\nIn a review published in the magazine \"The Nation\", former Central Intelligence Agency agent Robert Baer dismissed the gist of Griffin's writings as one in a long line of conspiracy theories about national tragedies but stated that the Bush administration had created a climate of secrecy and mistrust that helped generate such explanations. In the review, Baer said:\n\nAs more facts emerge about September 11, many of Griffin's questions should be answered, but his suspicions will never be put to rest as long as the Bush Administration refuses to explain why it dragged this country into the most senseless war in its history. Until then, otherwise reasonable Americans will believe the Bush Administration benefited from 9/11, and there will always be a question about what really happened on that day.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1845675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1845675", "title": "Deductive-nomological model", "text": "Deductive-nomological model\n\nThe deductive-nomological model (DN model), also known as Hempel's model, the Hempel–Oppenheim model, the Popper–Hempel model, or the covering law model, is a formal view of scientifically answering questions asking, \"Why...?\". The DN model poses scientific explanation as a deductive structure—that is, one where truth of its premises entails truth of its conclusion—hinged on accurate prediction or postdiction of the phenomenon to be explained.\n\nBecause of problems concerning humans' ability to define, discover, and know causality, it was omitted in initial formulations of the DN model. Causality was thought to be incidentally approximated by realistic selection of premises that \"derive\" the phenomenon of interest from observed starting conditions plus general laws. Still, DN model formally permitted causally irrelevant factors. Also, derivability from observations and laws sometimes yielded absurd answers.\n\nWhen logical empiricism fell out of favor in the 1960s, the DN model was widely seen as a flawed or greatly incomplete model of scientific explanation. Nonetheless, it remained an idealized version of scientific explanation, and one that was rather accurate when applied to modern physics. In the early 1980s, revision to DN model emphasized \"maximal specificity\" for relevance of the conditions and axioms stated. Together with Hempel's inductive-statistical model, the DN model forms scientific explanation's covering law model, which is also termed, from critical angle, subsumption theory.\n\nThe term \"deductive\" distinguishes the DN model's intended determinism from the probabilism of inductive inferences. The term \"nomological\" is derived from the Greek word \"νόμος\" or \"nomos\", meaning \"law\". The DN model holds to a view of scientific explanation whose \"conditions of adequacy\" (CA)—semiformal but stated classically—are \"derivability\" (CA1), \"lawlikeness\" (CA2), \"empirical content\" (CA3), and \"truth\" (CA4).\n\nIn the DN model, a law axiomatizes an unrestricted generalization from antecedent \"A\" to consequent \"B\" by conditional proposition—\"If A, then B\"—and has empirical content testable. A law differs from mere true regularity—for instance, \"George always carries only $1 bills in his wallet\"—by supporting counterfactual claims and thus suggesting what \"must\" be true, while following from a scientific theory's axiomatic structure.\n\nThe phenomenon to be explained is the explanandum—an event, law, or theory—whereas the premises to explain it are explanans, true or highly confirmed, containing at least one universal law, and entailing the explanandum. Thus, given the explanans as initial, specific conditions \"C, C . . . C\" plus general laws \"L, L . . . L\", the phenomenon \"E\" as explanandum is a deductive consequence, thereby scientifically explained.\n\nAristotle's scientific explanation in \"Physics\" resembles the DN model, an idealized form of scientific explanation. The framework of Aristotelian physics—Aristotelian metaphysics—reflected the perspective of this principally biologist, who, amid living entities' undeniable purposiveness, formalized vitalism and teleology, an intrinsic morality in nature. With emergence of Copernicanism, however, Descartes introduced mechanical philosophy, then Newton rigorously posed lawlike explanation, both Descartes and especially Newton shunning teleology within natural philosophy. At 1740, David Hume staked Hume's fork, highlighted the problem of induction, and found humans ignorant of either necessary or sufficient causality. Hume also highlighted the fact/value gap, as what \"is\" does not itself reveal what \"ought\".\n\nNear 1780, countering Hume's ostensibly radical empiricism, Immanuel Kant highlighted extreme rationalism—as by Descartes or Spinoza—and sought middle ground. Inferring the mind to arrange experience of the world into \"substance\", \"space\", and \"time\", Kant placed the mind as part of the causal constellation of experience and thereby found Newton's theory of motion universally true, yet knowledge of things in themselves impossible. Safeguarding science, then, Kant paradoxically stripped it of scientific realism. Aborting Francis Bacon's inductivist mission to dissolve the veil of appearance to uncover the \"noumena\"—metaphysical view of nature's ultimate truths—Kant's transcendental idealism tasked science with simply modeling patterns of \"phenomena\". Safeguarding metaphysics, too, it found the mind's constants holding also universal moral truths, and launched German idealism, increasingly speculative.\n\nAuguste Comte found the problem of induction rather irrelevant since enumerative induction is grounded on the empiricism available, while science's point is not metaphysical truth. Comte found human knowledge had evolved from theological to metaphysical to scientific—the ultimate stage—rejecting both theology and metaphysics as asking questions unanswerable and posing answers unverifiable. Comte in the 1830s expounded positivism—the first modern philosophy of science and simultaneously a political philosophy—rejecting conjectures about unobservables, thus rejecting search for \"causes\". Positivism predicts observations, confirms the predictions, and states a \"law\", thereupon applied to benefit human society. From late 19th century into the early 20th century, the influence of positivism spanned the globe. Meanwhile, evolutionary theory's natural selection brought the Copernican Revolution into biology and eventuated in the first conceptual alternative to vitalism and teleology.\n\nWhereas Comtean positivism posed science as \"description\", logical positivism emerged in the late 1920s and posed science as \"explanation\", perhaps to better unify empirical sciences by covering not only fundamental science—that is, fundamental physics—but special sciences, too, such as biology, psychology, economics, and anthropology. After defeat of National Socialism with World War II's close in 1945, logical positivism shifted to a milder variant, \"logical empiricism\". All variants of the movement, which lasted until 1965, are neopositivism, sharing the quest of verificationism.\n\nNeopositivists led emergence of the philosophy subdiscipline philosophy of science, researching such questions and aspects of scientific theory and knowledge. Scientific realism takes scientific theory's statements at face value, thus accorded either falsity or truth—probable or approximate or actual. Neopositivists held scientific antirealism as instrumentalism, holding scientific theory as simply a device to predict observations and their course, while statements on nature's unobservable aspects are elliptical at or metaphorical of its observable aspects, rather.\n\nDN model received its most detailed, influential statement by Carl G Hempel, first in his 1942 article \"The function of general laws in history\", and more explicitly with Paul Oppenheim in their 1948 article \"Studies in the logic of explanation\". Leading logical empiricist, Hempel embraced the Humean empiricist view that humans observe sequence of sensory events, not cause and effect, as causal relations and casual mechanisms are unobservables. DN model bypasses causality beyond mere constant conjunction: first an event like \"A\", then always an event like \"B\".\n\nHempel held natural laws—empirically confirmed regularities—as satisfactory, and if included realistically to approximate causality. In later articles, Hempel defended DN model and proposed probabilistic explanation by \"inductive-statistical model\" (IS model). DN model and IS model—whereby the probability must be high, such as at least 50%—together form \"covering law model\", as named by a critic, William Dray. Derivation of statistical laws from other statistical laws goes to the \"deductive-statistical model\" (DS model). Georg Henrik von Wright, another critic, named the totality \"subsumption theory\".\n\nAmid failure of neopositivism's fundamental tenets, Hempel in 1965 abandoned verificationism, signaling neopositivism's demise. From 1930 onward, Karl Popper had refuted any positivism by asserting falsificationism, which Popper claimed had killed positivism, although, paradoxically, Popper was commonly mistaken for a positivist. Even Popper's 1934 book embraces DN model, widely accepted as the model of scientific explanation for as long as physics remained the model of science examined by philosophers of science.\n\nIn the 1940s, filling the vast observational gap between cytology and biochemistry, cell biology arose and established existence of cell organelles besides the nucleus. Launched in the late 1930s, the molecular biology research program cracked a genetic code in the early 1960s and then converged with cell biology as \"cell and molecular biology\", its breakthroughs and discoveries defying DN model by arriving in quest not of lawlike explanation but of causal mechanisms. Biology became a new model of science, while special sciences were no longer thought defective by lacking universal laws, as borne by physics.\n\nIn 1948, when explicating DN model and stating scientific explanation's semiformal \"conditions of adequacy\", Hempel and Oppenheim acknowledged redundancy of the third, \"empirical content\", implied by the other three—\"derivability\", \"lawlikeness\", and \"truth\". In the early 1980s, upon widespread view that causality ensures the explanans' relevance, Wesley Salmon called for returning \"cause\" to \"because\", and along with James Fetzer helped replace CA3 \"empirical content\" with CA3' \"strict maximal specificity\".\n\nSalmon introduced \"causal mechanical\" explanation, never clarifying how it proceeds, yet reviving philosophers' interest in such. Via shortcomings of Hempel's inductive-statistical model (IS model), Salmon introduced \"statistical-relevance model\" (SR model). Although DN model remained an idealized form of scientific explanation, especially in applied sciences, most philosophers of science consider DN model flawed by excluding many types of explanations generally accepted as scientific.\n\nAs theory of knowledge, epistemology differs from ontology, which is a subbranch of metaphysics, theory of reality. Ontology poses which categories of being—what sorts of things exist—and so, although a scientific theory's ontological commitment can be modified in light of experience, an ontological commitment inevitably precedes empirical inquiry.\n\nNatural laws, so called, are statements of humans' observations, thus are epistemological—concerning human knowledge—the \"epistemic\". Causal mechanisms and structures existing putatively independently of minds exist, or would exist, in the natural world's structure itself, and thus are ontological, the \"ontic\". Blurring epistemic with ontic—as by incautiously presuming a natural law to refer to a causal mechanism, or to trace structures realistically during unobserved transitions, or to be true regularities always unvarying—tends to generate a \"category mistake\".\n\nDiscarding ontic commitments, including causality \"per se\", DN model permits a theory's laws to be reduced to—that is, subsumed by—a more fundamental theory's laws. The higher theory's laws are explained in DN model by the lower theory's laws. Thus, the epistemic success of Newtonian theory's law of universal gravitation is reduced to—thus explained by—Einstein's general theory of relativity, although Einstein's discards Newton's ontic claim that universal gravitation's epistemic success predicting Kepler's laws of planetary motion is through a causal mechanism of a straightly attractive force instantly traversing absolute space despite absolute time.\n\nCovering law model reflects neopositivism's vision of empirical science, a vision interpreting or presuming unity of science, whereby all empirical sciences are either fundamental science—that is, fundamental physics—or are special sciences, whether astrophysics, chemistry, biology, geology, psychology, economics, and so on. All special sciences would network via covering law model. And by stating \"boundary conditions\" while supplying \"bridge laws\", any special law would reduce to a lower special law, ultimately reducing—theoretically although generally not practically—to fundamental science. (\"Boundary conditions\" are specified conditions whereby the phenomena of interest occur. \"Bridge laws\" translate terms in one science to terms in another science.)\n\nBy DN model, if one asks, \"Why is that shadow 20 feet long?\", another can answer, \"Because that flagpole is 15 feet tall, the Sun is at \"x\" angle, and laws of electromagnetism\". Yet by problem of symmetry, if one instead asked, \"Why is that flagpole 15 feet tall?\", another could answer, \"Because that shadow is 20 feet long, the Sun is at \"x\" angle, and laws of electromagnetism\", likewise a deduction from observed conditions and scientific laws, but an answer clearly incorrect. By the problem of irrelevance, if one asks, \"Why did that man not get pregnant?\", one could in part answer, among the explanans, \"Because he took birth control pills\"—if he factually took them, and the law of their preventing pregnancy—as covering law model poses no restriction to bar that observation from the explanans.\n\nMany philosophers have concluded that causality is integral to scientific explanation. DN model offers a necessary condition of a causal explanation—successful prediction—but not sufficient conditions of causal explanation, as a universal regularity can include spurious relations or simple correlations, for instance \"Z\" always following \"Y\", but not \"Z\" because of \"Y\", instead \"Y\" and then \"Z\" as an effect of \"X\". By relating temperature, pressure, and volume of gas within a container, Boyle's law permits prediction of an unknown variable—volume, pressure, or temperature—but does not explain \"why\" to expect that unless one adds, perhaps, the kinetic theory of gases.\n\nScientific explanations increasingly pose not determinism's universal laws, but probabilism's chance, \"ceteris paribus\" laws. Smoking's contribution to lung cancer fails even the inductive-statistical model (IS model), requiring probability over 0.5 (50%). (Probability standardly ranges from 0 (0%) to 1 (100%).) An applied science that applies statistics seeking associations between events, epidemiology cannot show causality, but consistently found higher incidence of lung cancer in smokers versus otherwise similar nonsmokers, although the proportion of smokers who develop lung cancer is modest. Versus nonsmokers, however, smokers as a group showed over 20 times the risk of lung cancer, and in conjunction with basic research, consensus followed that smoking had been scientifically explained as \"a\" cause of lung cancer, responsible for some cases that without smoking would not have occurred, a probabilistic counterfactual causality.\n\nThrough lawlike explanation, fundamental physics—often perceived as fundamental science—has proceeded through intertheory relation and theory reduction, thereby resolving experimental paradoxes to great historical success, resembling covering law model. In early 20th century, Ernst Mach as well as Wilhelm Ostwald had resisted Ludwig Boltzmann's reduction of thermodynamics—and thereby Boyle's law—to statistical mechanics partly \"because\" it rested on kinetic theory of gas, hinging on atomic/molecular theory of matter. Mach as well as Ostwald viewed matter as a variant of energy, and molecules as mathematical illusions, as even Boltzmann thought possible.\n\nIn 1905, via statistical mechanics, Albert Einstein predicted the phenomenon Brownian motion—unexplained since reported in 1827 by botanist Robert Brown. Soon, most physicists accepted that atoms and molecules were unobservable yet real. Also in 1905, Einstein explained the electromagnetic field's energy as distributed in \"particles\", doubted until this helped resolve atomic theory in the 1910s and 1920s. Meanwhile, all known physical phenomena were gravitational or electromagnetic, whose two theories misaligned. Yet belief in aether as the source of all physical phenomena was virtually unanimous. At experimental paradoxes, physicists modified the aether's hypothetical properties.\n\nFinding the luminiferous aether a useless hypothesis, Einstein in 1905 \"a priori\" unified all inertial reference frames to state special \"principle\" of relativity, which, by omitting aether, converted space and time into \"relative\" phenomena whose relativity aligned electrodynamics with the Newtonian principle Galilean relativity or invariance. Originally epistemic or instrumental, this was interpreted as ontic or realist—that is, a causal mechanical explanation—and the \"principle\" became a \"theory\", refuting Newtonian gravitation. By predictive success in 1919, general relativity apparently overthrew Newton's theory, a revolution in science resisted by many yet fulfilled around 1930.\n\nIn 1925, Werner Heisenberg as well as Erwin Schrödinger independently formalized quantum mechanics (QM). Despite clashing explanations, the two theories made identical predictions. Paul Dirac's 1928 model of the electron was set to special relativity, launching QM into the first quantum field theory (QFT), quantum electrodynamics (QED). From it, Dirac interpreted and predicted the electron's antiparticle, soon discovered and termed \"positron\", but the QED failed electrodynamics at high energies. Elsewhere and otherwise, strong nuclear force and weak nuclear force were discovered.\n\nIn 1941, Richard Feynman introduced QM's path integral formalism, which if taken toward \"interpretation\" as a causal mechanical model clashes with Heisenberg's matrix formalism and with Schrödinger's wave formalism, although all three are empirically identical, sharing predictions. Next, working on QED, Feynman sought to model particles without fields and find the vacuum truly empty. As each known fundamental force is apparently an effect of a field, Feynman failed. Louis de Broglie's waveparticle duality had rendered atomism—indivisible particles in a void—untenable, and highlighted the very notion of discontinuous particles as selfcontradictory.\n\nMeeting in 1947, Freeman Dyson, Richard Feynman, Julian Schwinger, and Sin-Itiro Tomonaga soon introduced \"renormalization\", a procedure converting QED to physics' most predictively precise theory, subsuming chemistry, optics, and statistical mechanics. QED thus won physicists' general acceptance. Paul Dirac criticized its need for renormalization as showing its unnaturalness, and called for an aether. In 1947, Willis Lamb had found unexpected motion of electron orbitals, shifted since the vacuum is not truly empty. Yet \"emptiness\" was catchy, abolishing aether conceptually, and physics proceeded ostensibly without it, even suppressing it. Meanwhile, \"sickened by untidy math, most philosophers of physics tend to neglect QED\".\n\nPhysicists have feared even mentioning \"aether\", renamed \"vacuum\", which—as such—is nonexistent. General philosophers of science commonly believe that aether, rather, is fictitious, \"relegated to the dustbin of scientific history ever since\" 1905 brought special relativity. Einstein was noncommittal to aether's nonexistence, simply said it superfluous. Abolishing Newtonian motion for electrodynamic primacy, however, Einstein inadvertently reinforced aether, and to explain motion was led back to aether in general relativity. Yet resistance to relativity theory became associated with earlier theories of aether, whose word and concept became taboo. Einstein explained special relativity's compatibility with an aether, but Einstein aether, too, was opposed. Objects became conceived as pinned directly on space and time by abstract geometric relations lacking ghostly or fluid medium.\n\nBy 1970, QED along with weak nuclear field was reduced to electroweak theory (EWT), and the strong nuclear field was modeled as quantum chromodynamics (QCD). Comprised by EWT, QCD, and Higgs field, this Standard Model of particle physics is an \"effective theory\", not truly fundamental. As QCD's particles are considered nonexistent in the everyday world, QCD especially suggests an aether, routinely found by physics experiments to exist and to exhibit relativistic symmetry. Confirmation of the Higgs particle, modeled as a condensation within the Higgs field, corroborates aether, although physics need not state or even include aether. Organizing regularities of \"observations\"—as in the covering law model—physicists find superfluous the quest to discover \"aether\".\n\nIn 1905, from special relativity, Einstein deduced mass–energy equivalence, particles being variant forms of distributed energy, how particles colliding at vast speed experience that energy's transformation into mass, producing heavier particles, although physicists' talk promotes confusion. As \"the contemporary locus of metaphysical research\", QFTs pose particles not as existing individually, yet as \"excitation modes\" of fields, the particles and their masses being states of aether, apparently unifying all physical phenomena as the more fundamental causal reality, as long ago foreseen. Yet a \"quantum\" field is an intricate abstraction—a \"mathematical\" field—virtually inconceivable as a \"classical\" field's physical properties. Nature's deeper aspects, still unknown, might elude any possible field theory.\n\nThough discovery of causality is popularly thought science's aim, search for it was shunned by the Newtonian research program, even more Newtonian than was Isaac Newton. By now, most theoretical physicists infer that the four, known fundamental interactions would reduce to superstring theory, whereby atoms and molecules, after all, are energy vibrations holding mathematical, geometric forms. Given uncertainties of scientific realism, some conclude that the concept \"causality\" raises comprehensibility of scientific explanation and thus is key folk science, but compromises precision of scientific explanation and is dropped as a science matures. Even epidemiology is maturing to heed the severe difficulties with presumptions about causality. Covering law model is among Carl G Hempel's admired contributions to philosophy of science.\n\nTypes of inference\n\nRelated subjects\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21082700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21082700", "title": "Differentia", "text": "Differentia\n\nIn scholastic logic, differentia is one of the predicables. It is that part of a definition which is predicable in a given genus only of the definiendum; or the corresponding \"metaphysical part\" of the object.\n\nThe concept of differentia was, as a matter of fact, already employed by Plato when he conceived his method of \"diairesis\". Aristotle used the term \"diafora\" in a systematical fashion; but he had no explicit theory about it, and his understanding of the term is controversial. A theory was only provided by Porphyry's explicit treatment of the predicables presented in his \"Isagoge\". On the basis of Boethius' translation of the Isagoge, where the Greek term \"diafora\" was rendered as in Latin as \"differentia\", evolved the elaborate scholastic theory of the predicables.\n\nIn the original, logical sense, a differentia is a concept — the notion of \"differentia\" is a second-order concept, or a \"second intention\", in the scholastic nomenclature. In the scholastic theory it is a kind of essential predicate — a predicate that belongs to its subjects \"de re\" necessarily. It is distinguished against the species by expressing the (specific) essence of the object only partially and against the \"genus\" by expressing the determining rather than the determined part of the essence.\n\nAlthough the primary meaning of \"differentia\" is logical or second-order, it may under certain assumptions have an ontological, first-order application. If it is assumed that the structuring of an essence into \"determining\" and \"determinable\" metaphysical parts (which corresponding to a differentia and a genus respectively) exists in reality independently of its being conceived, one can apply the notion \"differentia\" also to the determining metaphysical part itself, and not just to the concept that expresses it. This is common in Scotism, where the metaphysical parts are said to be formally distinct. If, on the other hand, any mind-independent structuring on the part of the essence is denied (like in Thomism or Suárezianism), then the partitioning of the essence into a generic and a differentiating part must be considered as merely conceptua, whereas the actual realities corresponding to the differentia and to the genus evade as really the same. These assumptions therefore do not permit any ontological application of the notion of differentia.\n\n"}
{"id": "58865499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58865499", "title": "Dirk Baltzly", "text": "Dirk Baltzly\n\nDirk Christian Baltzly (born 1963) is an Australian philosopher and Professor of Philosophy at the University of Tasmania. He is known for his research on ancient Greek and Roman Philosophy. Baltzly is a Fellow of the Australian Academy of Humanities (2008).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50574760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50574760", "title": "EU Directive 2010/63/EU", "text": "EU Directive 2010/63/EU\n\nEU Directive 2010/63/EU<ref name=\"DIRECTIVE 2010/63/EU\"></ref> is the European Union (EU) legislation \"on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes\" and is one of the most stringent ethical and welfare standards worldwide.\n\nThe Directive repealed EU Directive 86/609/EEC. It became formally applied across the EU on 1 January 2013. It protects live non-human vertebrates including independently feeding larval forms and foetal forms of mammals from the last third of their normal development, and live cephalopods.\n\nThe Directive is based on the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Vertebrate Animals used for Experimental and other Scientific Purposes (ETS123) established in 1986. This Convention applies to a wider Europe, beyond just the EU.\n\nThe Directive repealed EU Directive 86/609/EEC. It took nearly two years to revise, beginning in November 2008. It was finalised and signed on 22 September 2010, coming into force on 9 November 2010. Member States were then allowed one year to transpose it into their own words before it became formally applied across the EU on 1 January 2013.\n\nThe ultimate aim of the Directive is to replace animals in research.\n\nBecause it is a Directive, it allows Member States certain flexibility in transposition of national rules. The status of the implementation of the new Directive in the EU is described by the EC General Environment Directorate. Purposes of this Directive are to provide scope (via Articles 1 & 3), harmonise the current EU understanding of what defines an animal (Article 1.3), map resources, identify competent people and authorities (Articles 47.5 & 48), establish a common framework, and promote collaboration of the Member States with the EC to promote animal welfare in the EU as a European value in Article 13 of the Treaty of the Functioning of the EU (TFEU).\n\nAnimal welfare is not an EU policy area \"per se\" as it is for agriculture, fisheries, research, etc., but rather that \"In formulating and implementing the Union's agriculture, fisheries, transport, internal markets, research, technological development, and space policies, the Union and the Member States shall, since animals are sentient beings, pay full regard to the welfare of animals, while respecting the legislative or administrative provisions and customs of the Member States relating in particular to religious rites, cultural traditions and regional heritage\". Therefore, no legal action can be taken by the EC when animal welfare is not respected; one must refer a complaint directly to the Member State. Promotion and use of alternative animal testing methods and 3Rs are written elsewhere within EU legislation (e.g. REACH, Cosmetics, PPP, Biocides ...). EU agencies (ECHA, EMA, EFSA) also contribute to the protection of laboratory animals used for scientific purposes.\n\nIn July 2013, the Commission announced the creation of European Union Network of Laboratories for the Validation of Alternative Methods (EU-NETVAL) EU-NETVAL's primary role is to provide support for the European Union Reference Laboratory for Alternatives to Animal Testing (EURL ECVAM) validation projects, including aspects of training and dissemination, and the identification of methods that have a potential to reduce, refine or replace animals used for scientific purposes. Any EU laboratory is allowed to apply as long as they follow the eligibility criteria listed by the EC, such as sufficient scientific staff, adequate equipment and GLP/or ISO certificates. As of March 2016, there are 38 test facilities: Belgium (3) Czech Republic (1), European Commission (1), Finland (1), France (3), (Germany) (6), Hungary (1), Italy (8), the Netherlands (2), Poland (2), Slovakia (1), Spain (3), Sweden (1), Switzerland (2) and the United Kingdom (2).\n"}
{"id": "2362767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2362767", "title": "Edwin Arthur Burtt", "text": "Edwin Arthur Burtt\n\nEdwin Arthur Burtt (October 11, 1892 – September 6, 1989), usually cited as E. A. Burtt, was an American philosopher who wrote extensively on the philosophy of religion. His doctoral thesis published as a book under the title \"The Metaphysical Foundations of Modern Physical Science\" has had a significant influence upon the history of science that is not generally recognized, according to H. Floris Cohen.\n\nHe was born on October 11, 1892 in Groton, Massachusetts. His missionary parents took Burtt to China for several of his teenage years. He was educated at Yale University. He graduated from Yale in 1915, where he was a member of Skull and Bones. He attended Union Theological Seminary and Columbia University. He became the Susan Linn Sage Professor of Philosophy at Cornell University in 1941.\n\nHe died on September 6, 1989 in Ithaca, New York.\n\nThough he maintained throughout his life a sympathy towards religious values and beliefs, he acknowledged that his philosophy had been marked by a reaction towards what he saw as his own father's too narrow outlook. Although Burtt participated in drafting the Humanist Manifesto I, he did not work on the project further, because he lost interest after his ideas that spiritual experience is the identification with categories of space, time, causality, and other fundamental physical principles were never included in the final publications. However, in 1973 he was one of the signers of the Humanist Manifesto II.\n\nBased on his own statements, Thomas Kuhn may very well have been unaware that in building on the philosophy of Alexandre Koyré, he was in turn building on the philosophy of Burtt whose influence upon Koyré has been demonstrated as substantial.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24471389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24471389", "title": "Elisionism", "text": "Elisionism\n\nElisionism is a philosophical standpoint encompassing various social theories. Elisionist theories are diverse; however, they are unified in their adherence to process philosophy as well as their assumption that the social and the individual cannot be separated. The term \"elisionism\" was coined by Margaret Archer in 1995 in the book \"Realist Social Theory: The Morphogenetic Approach\". Elisionism is often contrasted with holism, atomism, and emergentism.\n"}
{"id": "556846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=556846", "title": "Ernst Cassirer", "text": "Ernst Cassirer\n\nErnst Alfred Cassirer (; ; July 28, 1874 – April 13, 1945) was a German philosopher. Trained within the Neo-Kantian Marburg School, he initially followed his mentor Hermann Cohen in attempting to supply an idealistic philosophy of science.\n\nAfter Cohen's death, Cassirer developed a theory of symbolism and used it to expand phenomenology of knowledge into a more general philosophy of culture. Cassirer was one of the leading 20th-century advocates of philosophical idealism. His most famous work is the \"Philosophy of Symbolic Forms\" (1923–1929).\n\nBorn in Breslau in Silesia (modern-day southwest Poland), into a Jewish family, Cassirer studied literature and philosophy at the University of Marburg (where he completed his doctoral work in 1899 with a dissertation on Descartes's analysis of mathematical and natural scientific knowledge entitled \"Descartes' Kritik der mathematischen und naturwissenschaftlichen Erkenntnis\"—\"Descartes' Critique of Mathematical and Scientific Knowledge\") and at the University of Berlin (where he completed his habilitation in 1906 with the dissertation \"Das Erkenntnisproblem in der Philosophie und Wissenschaft der neueren Zeit: Erster Band\"—\"The Problem of Knowledge in Philosophy and Science in the Modern Age: Volume I\"). \n\nPolitically, Cassirer supported the liberal German Democratic Party (DDP). After working for many years as a Privatdozent at the Friedrich Wilhelm University in Berlin, Cassirer was elected in 1919 to the philosophy chair at the newly founded University of Hamburg, where he lectured until 1933, supervising amongst others the doctoral theses of Joachim Ritter and Leo Strauss. Because he was Jewish, he left Germany after the Nazis came to power in 1933.\n\nAfter leaving Germany he taught for a couple of years in Oxford, before becoming a professor at Gothenburg University. When Cassirer considered Sweden too unsafe, he applied for a post at Harvard University, but was rejected because thirty years earlier he had rejected a job offer from them. In 1941 he became a visiting professor at Yale University, then moved to Columbia University in New York City, where he lectured from 1943 until his death in 1945.\n\nCassirer died of a heart attack in April 1945 in New York City. His grave is located in Westwood (New Jersey) on the Cedar Park Beth-El Cemeteries in the graves of the Congregation Habonim. His son, Heinz Cassirer, was also a Kantian scholar.\n\nDonald Phillip Verene, who published some of Cassirer’s papers kept at Yale University, gave this overview of his ideas:\n“Cassirer as a thinker became an embodiment of Kantian principles, but also of much more, of an overall movement of spirit stretching from the Renaissance to the Enlightenment, and on to Herder’s conception of history, Goethe’s poetry, Wilhelm von Humboldt’s study of the Kavi language, Schelling’s Philosophie Der Mythologie, Hegel’s Phenomenology of Spirit, and Vischer’s conception of the aesthetic symbol, among many others. Cassirer’s own position is born through a mastery of the whole development of this world of the humanistic understanding, which included the rise of the scientific world view — a mastery evident both in his historical works and in his systematic philosophy.”\n\nCassirer's first major published writings were a history of modern thought from the Renaissance to Kant. In accordance with his Marburg neo-Kantianism he concentrated upon epistemology. His reading of the scientific revolution, in books such as \"The Individual and the Cosmos in Renaissance Philosophy\" (1927), as a “Platonic” application of mathematics to nature, influenced historians such as E. A. Burtt, E. J. Dijksterhuis, and Alexandre Koyré.\n\nIn \"Substance and Function\" (1910), he writes about late nineteenth-century developments in physics including relativity theory and the foundations of mathematics. In \"Einstein's Theory of Relativity\" (1921) he defended the claim that modern physics supports a neo-Kantian conception of knowledge. He also wrote a book about Quantum mechanics called \"Determinism and Indeterminism in Modern Physics\" (1936).\n\nAt Hamburg Cassirer discovered the Library of the Cultural Sciences founded by Aby Warburg. Warburg was an art historian who was particularly interested in ritual and myth as sources of surviving forms of emotional expression. In \"Philosophy of Symbolic Forms\" (1923–29) Cassirer argues that man (as he put it in his more popular 1944 book \"Essay on Man\") is a \"symbolic animal\". Whereas animals perceive their world by instincts and direct sensory perception, humans create a universe of symbolic meanings. Cassirer is particularly interested in natural language and myth. He argues that science and mathematics developed from natural language, and religion and art from myth.\n\nIn 1929 Cassirer took part in an historically significant encounter with Martin Heidegger in Davos. Cassirer argues that while Kant's \"Critique of Pure Reason\" emphasizes human temporality and finitude, he also sought to situate human cognition within a broader conception of humanity. Cassirer challenges Heidegger's relativism by invoking the universal validity of truths discovered by the exact and moral sciences.\n\nCassirer believed that reason's self-realization leads to human liberation. Mazlish (2000) however notes that Cassirer in his \"The Philosophy of the Enlightenment\" (1932) focuses exclusively on ideas, ignoring the political and social context in which they were produced.\n\nIn \"The Logic of the Cultural Sciences\" (1942) Cassirer argues that objective and universal validity can be achieved not only in the sciences, but also in practical, cultural, moral, and aesthetic phenomena. Although inter-subjective objective validity in the natural sciences derives from universal laws of nature, Cassirer asserts that an analogous type of inter-subjective objective validity takes place in the cultural sciences.\n\nCassirer's last work, \"The Myth of the State\" (1946), was published posthumously; at one level it is an attempt to understand the intellectual origins of Nazi Germany. Cassirer sees Nazi Germany as a society in which the dangerous power of myth is not checked or subdued by superior forces. The book discusses the opposition of logos and mythos in Greek thought, Plato's Republic, the medieval theory of the state, Machiavelli, Thomas Carlyle's writings on hero worship, the racial theories of Arthur de Gobineau, and Hegel. Cassirer claimed that in 20th century politics there was a return, with the passive acquiescence of Martin Heidegger, to the irrationality of myth, and in particular to a belief that there is such a thing as destiny. Of this passive acquiescence, Cassirer says that in departing from Husserl's belief in an objective, logical basis for philosophy, Heidegger attenuated the ability of philosophy to oppose the resurgence of myth in German politics of the 1930s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11669", "title": "Functional theories of grammar", "text": "Functional theories of grammar\n\nFunctional theories of grammar are those approaches to the study of language that see functionality of language and its elements to be the key to understanding linguistic processes and structures. Functional theories of language propose that since language is fundamentally a tool, it is reasonable to assume that its structures are best analyzed and understood with reference to the functions they carry out. Functional theories of grammar differ from structural linguistics or formalist language theories, in that the latter approaches seek to define the different elements of language and describe the way they relate to each other only as systems of formal rules or operations, whereas the former additionally takes into account the context where linguistic elements are used and studies the way they are instrumentally useful or functional in the given environment. This means that functional theories of grammar tend to pay attention to the way language is actually used in communicative context. The formal relations between linguistic elements are assumed to be functionally-motivated.\n\nThere are several distinct grammatical frameworks that employ a functional approach.\n\n\nDik characterises the functional approach as follows:\n\nBecause of its emphasis on usage, communicative function, and the social context of language, functional grammar differs significantly from other linguistic theories which stress purely formal approaches to grammar, notably Chomskyan generative grammar. Functional grammar makes much use of corpus linguistics and linguistic typology to provide material.\n\nFunctions exist on all levels of grammar, and even in phonology, where the function of the phoneme is to distinguish between lexical material.\n\n"}
{"id": "7820018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7820018", "title": "GLS Bank", "text": "GLS Bank\n\nGLS Bank (full name GLS Gemeinschaftsbank eG) is a German ethical bank that was founded in 1974 as an anthroposophical initiative by Wilhelm Ernst Barkhoff and Gisela Reuther. It was the first bank in Germany that operated with an ethical philosophy. According to GLS Bank, its focus is on cultural, social and ecological initiatives, initiated by people, and not anonymous interests seeking capital or maximum profit. The name stands for \"Gemeinschaftsbank für Leihen und Schenken\" which translates as \"Community bank for loaning and giving\". With the main focus on cultural, social and environmental ventures, GLS tries to deal with challenges in the society by developing creative solutions.\nThe bank is based in Bochum, Germany and is a co-operative. As of November 2006, the bank's total balance was EUR 645 million. As of 31 December 2008, the balance sheet total was EUR 1,013 million, further rising to EUR 1,847 million as of 31 December 2010.\n\nIn 2015, the bank received the first \"German Award for Excellence\" from the Deutschen Gesellschaft für Zertifizierung \"(German Certification Group)\". The award was granted to honor the bank's fair business practices.\n\nIn December 2016 at the annual general assembly, about 80% of the 1200 people present at the assembly decided to introduce the \"GLS Beitrag\".\n\nIn 2010, the bank acquired over 18,000 new customers and in February 2011 GLS announced a growth of 37 per cent, the largest in the bank's history.\nAs of December 2016 the Genossenschaft (co-operative) has 46.313 members, compared to December 2015 with 41.982 members this is a growth of 10.3%.\n\n"}
{"id": "19614149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19614149", "title": "Girlfriend", "text": "Girlfriend\n\nA girlfriend is a female friend or acquaintance, often a regular female companion with whom one is platonic, romantically or sexually involved. The analogous male term is \"boyfriend\".\n\nPartners in committed relationships are also sometimes described as a \"significant other\" or simply \"partner\", especially if the individuals are cohabiting.\n\n\"Girlfriend\" and \"partner\" mean different things to different people; the distinctions between the terms are subjective. How the term is used will ultimately be determined by personal preference.\n\nIn 2005, a study was conducted of 115 people ages 21 to 35 who were either living with or had lived with a romantic partner. It notes that the lack of proper terms often leads to awkward situations, such as someone becoming upset over not being introduced in social situations to avoid the question.\n\nThere exists some ambiguity between the terms \"girl friend,\" or a friend who is a girl, and \"girlfriend.\" The transition between the two is a significant aspect of adolescent development.\n\nBoth forms of \"girlfriend\" and \"girl friend\" are used by different people to mean different things. For example, when the term \"girlfriend\" is used by a female about another female in a non-sexual, non-romantic context, the two-word form \"girl friend\" is sometimes used to avoid confusion with the sexual or romantic meaning; however, this is not a rule. In this sense of its usage, \"girlfriend\" is used in terms of very close friends and has no sexual connotations, unless it is in the case of lesbian, bisexual, pansexual, transgender women. The term \"girlfriend\" is also used in LGBT communities and can refer to people of any sex or sexuality.\n\nThe term \"girlfriend\" does not necessarily imply a sexual relationship, but is often used to refer to a girl or woman who is dating a person she is not engaged to without indicating whether she is having sex with them. With differing expectations of sexual mores, the term \"dating\" can imply romantic activity whereas simply using \"friend\" would likely avoid implying such intimacy. It is essentially equivalent to the term \"sweetheart\", which has also been used as a term of endearment. A similar relationship wherein there is no exclusivity is sometimes referred to by terms such as \"friend with benefits\".\n\nThe word \"girlfriend\" was first used in 1863 as \"a woman's female friend in youth.” In 1922, the word girlfriend was used to mean a man’s sweetheart.\n\nThe word \"dating\" entered the American language during the Roaring Twenties. Prior to that, courtship was a matter of family and community interest. Starting around the time of the Civil War, courtship became a private matter for couples.\n\n\nA similar, but not equivalent, concept is the more ambiguous \"lady friend\" – a companion of the female gender who is possibly less than a girlfriend but potentially more than a friend. That is to say, the relationship is not necessarily platonic, nor is it necessarily an exclusive, serious, committed, or long-term relationship. The term avoids the overt sexual implications that come with referring to a woman as someone's \"mistress\" or \"lover\". In that sense, it can often be a euphemism. The term can also sometimes be employed when someone simply does not know the exact status of a woman that a man has been associating with. For instance, tabloid headlines often note that a celebrity has been seen with a new \"lady friend\". \"Lady friend\" may also be used to signify a romantic relationship with an older woman, when the term \"girl\" as in \"girlfriend\" may be deemed age-inappropriate.\n\nAs of 2007, The \"New York Times\" style guide discouraged the use of the term \"girlfriend\" for an adult romantic partner, stating, \"Companion is a suitable term for an unmarried partner of the same or the opposite sex.\" The \"Times\" received some criticism for referring to Shaha Riza as the \"girlfriend\" of World Bank president Paul Wolfowitz in one article about the controversy over their relationship. Other news articles in the \"Times\" had generally referred to her as Wolfowitz's \"companion\".\n\nHowever, the 2015 edition of the \"New York Times Manual of Style\" states that the view on the term \"girlfriend\" as being informal is now relegated to the realm of traditionalism, and that it has become accepted to use \"girlfriend\" and \"boyfriend\" to describe people of all ages (with consideration given to the preferences of the people involved).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1523809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1523809", "title": "Hanshan (poet)", "text": "Hanshan (poet)\n\nHanshan (, \"fl.\" 9th century) is a figure associated with a collection of poems from the Chinese Tang Dynasty in the Taoist and Chan tradition. No one knows who he was, when he lived and died, or whether he actually existed. In the Chinese Buddhist tradition, Hanshan and his sidekick Shide are honored as emanations of the bodhisattvas Mañjuśrī and Samantabhadra, respectively. In Japanese and Chinese paintings, Hanshan is often depicted together with Shide or with Fenggan, another monk with legendary attributes.\n\nLittle is known of his work, since he was a recluse living in a remote region and his poems were written on rocks in the mountains he called home. Of the 600 poems he is thought to have written at some point before his death, 313 were collected and have survived. Among the 57 poems attributed to Hanshan's friend, Shide, seven appear to be authored by Hanshan, for a total of 320.\n\nIn Lu Jiuyin's () preface to Hanshan's poems, he claims to have personally met both Hanshan and Shide at the kitchen of Guoqing Temple, but they responded to his salutations with laughter then fled. Afterwards, he attempted to give them clothing and provide them housing, but Lu Jiuyin writes that the pair fled into a cave which closed itself and Shide's tracks disappeared. This led Lu Jiuyin, governor of Tai Prefecture, to collect Hanshan's writings, \"the poems written on bamboo, wood, stones, and cliffs and also to collect those written on the walls of peoples' houses.\" However, Burton Watson is of the opinion that Lu Jiuyin did not exist in reality and that his preface to Hanshan's poems is nothing more than myth. In the introduction to his book, he says of Lu Jiuyin's preface to the poems:\n\nIf we follow Watson and discount the preface of Lu Jiuyin, accepting only the words of the poet himself, we see that Hanshan says only that he wrote his poems on the rocks. Nowhere in the poetry does he say that he wrote them on trees or bamboo or wood or the walls of people’s houses.\n\nThe collection of poems attributed to Hanshan may span the entire Tang Dynasty as Edwin G. Pulleyblank asserts in his study \"Linguistic Evidence for the Date of Hanshan\". Wu Chi-yu in \"A study of Han-shan\" identifies him as the monk Zhiyan (智岩, 577–654), but that has been disputed by Paul Demiéville among others. The \"Encyclopedia of China\" gives his date as around 712 and after 793. Jia Jinhua came to the conclusion, after a study of Chan phrases in some 50 of the poems, that this particular group of poems may be attributable to the Chan monk Caoshan Benji (840–901). However, the dates for both Zhiyan and Caoshan Benji contradict Hanshan, who says that he was much older than either.\n\nEarly translations by Arthur Waley \"27 poems by Han-shan\", Gary Snyder \"Cold Mountain Poems\", and Burton Watson \"Cold Mountain: 100 Poems\".\n\nThe first complete translation to a western language was into French by (\"Le Mangeur de brumes : l'œuvre de Han-shan poète et vagabond\"). Stephan Schumacher translated 150 poems into German in 1980.\n\nThere are four full English translations, by Robert G. Henricks, Red Pine, Paul Rouzer and Peter Levitt\n\nOther translations: \"Encounters With Cold Mountain\", by Peter Stambler (130 poems). \"Cold Mountain Transcendental Poetry\" (96 poems) by Wandering Poet (2005, 2012).\n\nIn the introduction to his translation of Han-shan's poems, Burton Watson writes, “If the reader wishes to know the biography of Han-shan, he must deduce it from the poems themselves.” Watson goes further to describe Han-shan as \"a gentleman farmer, troubled by poverty and family discord, who after extensive wandering and perhaps a career as a minor official\" became a hermit. In Paul Rozer's translation of poem 302, Han-shan appears to say that after leaving home and traveling he arrived at Tiantai Mountain at age 30, and that he was trained in the Confucian classics:\n\nA fanciful description of Han-shan is given by Lüqiu Yin in the introduction that is included in most editions of Han-shan's poems.\n\nDuring his journey to his prefect appointment, Lüqiu Yin writes, he was visited by Fenggan, who said that he came from the Guoqing monastery. When Lüqiu Yin, who suffered from a headache, asked Fenggan to cure him, Fenggen laughed and said, \"The human body consists of but four great elements, and illness is only illusion,\" then sprinkled water onto Lüqiu Yin, curing him instantly.\n\nLüqiu Yin then asked if there were any sages worthy of becoming of his tutor and Fenggan revealed that at Guoqing monastery were two Bodhisattva incarnations. The first, Han-shan, a man retired to the monastery, was, Fenggan said, an incarnation of Manjushri; the second, Shide, a man who \"looked like a demented beggar coming and going, worked as an errand-boy at the stoves in the kitchen\", was an incarnation of Samantabhadra.\n\nThree days after arriving at his government appointment, Lüqiu Yin asked his chief administrator if there were any information about Han-shan and Shide. The administrator reported that \"seventy li (approximately 35 km) to the west of the town of T'ang-hsing, there was a cliff where a poor scholar lived. This scholar was said to be seen going to the Kuo-ch'ing Monastery.\" Lüqiu Yin went to the monastery and asked where Fenggan, Han-shan, and Shide were living. The monks there told him that Fenggan lived behind the library, but now it was haunted by a tiger who often accompanied him. Lüqiu Yin visited Fenggan's room but all he found was a \"house full of the tiger's footprints.\" When he asked what Fenggan was hired to do, the monks said that Fenggan was assigned to hull rice for the monks and would spend his nights singing to amuse himself.\n\nLüqiu Yin writes that no one knows where Han-shan came from. He relays descriptions of the poet given by elders from Guoqing Temple who said that Hanshan was \"a poor and eccentric hermit\" who \"often went to the Kuo-ch'ing Monastery in order to take home the left-overs of the meal, which he carried in a bamboo tube given to him by Shih-te, a monk working in the dining-hall.\"\n\n\"Sometimes Han-shan would stroll for hours in a long corridor of the monastery, cry cheerfully, laugh or speak to himself. When he was taken to task or driven away by some of the monks armed with sticks, he would afterwards stand still and laugh, clapping his hands, and then disappear.\" Lüqiu Yin says that his appearance was that of \"an emaciated beggar, but every word he uttered was pithy, meaningful and inspiring. He wore a cap make of birch bark, a simple fur garment, torn and threadbare, and wooden sandals for shoes.\"\n\nLüqiu Yin found Han-shan and Shide in the monastery kitchen, where he respectfully made obeisance to them. At sight of this, the two laughed and said, \"Feng-kan has a long tongue. You did not recognize Maitreya at sight, why are you making obeisance to us now?\" As Han-shan and Shide left hand in hand, the monks were stunned to see such a high official make obeisance to two poor scholars. Lüqiu Yin had two sets of clean clothing prepared and asked the monks to give them to Han-shan and Shide should they ever return. Lüqiu Yin later learned that the two hadn't reappeared at the monastery and had the presents delivered to their dwellings on Tiantai Mountain. When Hanshan saw these delivery men, it is said, he cried \"Thieves! Thieves!\" and retreated to a cave entrance, exclaiming, \"Each of you should exert himself to the utmost,\" and withdrew into the cave, which closed itself behind him. Han-shan and Shide were never seen again at Guoqing temple.\n\nLüqiu Yin had all the writings left behind by Han-shan and Shide collected. Han-shan had written on rocks, bamboo bark, trees, and the walls of houses in neighboring villages, and Shide had written a 49-line poem on the wall of an Earth God temple.\n\nHanshan's poetry consists of Chinese verse, in 3, 5, or 7 character lines; never shorter than 4 lines, and never longer than 34 lines. The language is marked by the use of more colloquial Medieval Vernacular Sinitic than almost any other Tang poet. The poems can be seen to fall into three categories: the biographical poems about his life before he arrived at Cold Mountain; the religious and political poems, generally critical of conventional wisdom and those who embrace it; and the transcendental poems, about his sojourn at Cold Mountain. They are notable for their straightforwardness, which contrasts sharply with the cleverness and intricateness that marked typical Tang Dynasty poetry.\n\nRed Pine poem 283:\n\nThematically, Hanshan draws heavily on Buddhist and Taoist themes, often remarking on life's short and transient nature, and the necessity of escape through some sort of transcendence. He varies and expands on this theme, sometimes speaking of Mahayana Buddhism's 'Great Vehicle', and other times of Taoist ways and symbols like cranes.\n\nThe following poem begins with the imagery of the burning house and the three carts from the Parable of the Burning House found in The Lotus Sutra, then ends with typical Zen and Taoist imagery of freedom from conceptualizations.\n\nRed Pine poem 253:\n\nThis mixed influence is probably due to the high preponderance of Taoists and Buddhists in the same area. The eminent Taoist Ge Hong acclaimed Mount Tiantai as 'the perfect place for practicing the arts of immortality,' which is probably also why so many Buddhist temples were established in the vicinity as well.\n\nRed Pine poem 13:\n\nMany poems display a deep concern for humanity, which in his view stubbornly refuses to look ahead, and short-sightedly indulges in all manner of vice, like eating animal flesh, piling up sins 'high as Mount Sumeru'. But he holds out hope that people may yet be saved; 'Just the other day/ a demon became a Bodhisattva.'\n\nRed Pine poem 18:\n\nWhile Hanshan eschewed fancy techniques and obscure erudition, his poems are still highly evocative at times:\nRed Pine poem 106:\n\nHe is hard to pin down religiously. Chan concepts and terminology sometimes appear in his work. But he criticized the Buddhists at Tiantai, and he directed criticism at Taoists as well, having had no problem bringing Taoist scriptural quotations, and Taoist language when describing his mountains, into his poems. Yet, he does not mince words, but tells us precisely where to find the path to Heaven.\n\nRed Pine poem 117:\n\nRed Pine poem 246:\n\nThe following poem is attributed to Hanshan's friend, Shide.\n\nRed Pine's poem 307:\n\nThe poetry from Cold Mountain has influenced the poets of many generations and cultures. He is especially loved by the Japanese, who know him as Kanzan. Hanshan was a sympathetic and important figure for Beat Generation writers Gary Snyder and Jack Kerouac. In the introduction to his translation which appeared in the \"Evergreen Review\", Snyder wrote of Hanshan, \"He and his sidekick Shih-te (Jittoku in Japanese) became great favorites with Zen painters of later days — the scroll, the broom, the wild hair and laughter. They became Immortals and you sometimes run into them today in the skidrows, orchards, hobo jungles, and logging camps of America.\" Kerouac's The Dharma Bums closes with a vision of Hanshan, and at Snyder's suggestion, Kerouac dedicated the book to the fabled poet.\n\nPaul Rouzer reads the poems as Buddhist teaching poems, referring to Hakuin Ekaku Kanzan shi sendai kimon 寒山詩闡提記聞 (1746) (\"Notes on the Lectures on Cold Mountain's Poems at Icchantika Cave\") that largely ignores the biographical reading most commonly found in other sources.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33870607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33870607", "title": "Hitler Youth conspiracy", "text": "Hitler Youth conspiracy\n\nThe Hitler Youth conspiracy was a case investigated by the Soviet secret police, during the Great Purge in the late 1930s. Essentially a theory in search of evidence, it nonetheless resulted in the arrest of numerous German teenagers and some in their twenties and beyond, who were accused of having been fascist, anti-communist members of the Hitler Youth and of working against the Soviet Union. Teenagers from the Karl Liebknecht School, from Children's Home No. 6, and adults from factories and elsewhere were arrested, tortured and imprisoned. Many were executed or died in custody. Some were the children of leading communists. Within years, the investigation was found to have been faulty and a number of the investigators were also arrested, with sentences ranging from imprisonment to execution. In the 1950s, following the death of Joseph Stalin, a new examination of the files revealed many of the accusations to have been baseless and a number of the victims were rehabilitated.\n\nBeginning with the earliest history of the Soviet Union, with the Red Terror and subsequent political repression of suspected opponents of the October Revolution, there were purges and mass repressions within the Soviet Union, as well as purges of the Communist Party, both within the Soviet Union and abroad. Waves of persecutions occurred, in which the number of those charged with being counter-revolutionary or fascist increased substantially. In his \"Secret Speech\", Nikita Khrushchev said that between 1936 and 1937, the number of arrests for counter-revolutionary crimes grew ten times.\n\nAt the February–March 1937 plenary meeting of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU), there was a renewed call to purge the party of Trotskyite elements, unleashing a wave of mass terror in the summer of 1937. The term \"counter-revolutionary fascist groups\" came into use within the Soviet secret police in 1938 as they carried out the purges. German members of the Executive Committee of the Communist International reported at April 28, 1938 meeting that there had been 842 arrests.\n\nAs early as 1930, the Soviet secret police, the Cheka, later the People's Commissariat for Internal Affairs (NKVD), investigated teenaged Germans suspected of being members of the Hitler Youth, but these investigations preceded the Great Purge and those arrested were not given the harsh sentences of later years. Most were released before 1934. As the Great Purge swept up communist activists in massive arrests, their spouses and children were also persecuted. Some were banished to a gulag, some children were put in orphanages and in some cases, older children were themselves arrested and charged with anti-revolutionary activity and forming anti-revolutionary groups. International communists living in the Soviet Union were hard hit, especially Germans, who were there in large numbers, fleeing Nazism. While German parents were rounded up, accused of espionage, this charge was not plausible for foreign children who had not been outside the Soviet Union in years. Instead, they were charged with having formed a branch of the Hitler Youth.\n\nInvestigations regarding NKVD Order Number 8842, the Hitler Youth conspiracy began in January 1938. The commissar of the NKVD gave an order to find and arrest a group of young people who were alleged to have formed a branch of the Hitler Youth and were planning acts of sabotage and an assassination. They were also accused of praising Adolf Hitler. Department 4 of the Main Directorate of State Security under the NKVD handled secret political affairs and took care of the administration of the case; Department 7, which handled foreign intelligence, implemented the orders.\n\nThose carrying out the arrests were directed to reach quotas for arrests and confessions, and were given deadlines. When Rudolph Traibman, who interpreted during the interrogations, later said that when he complained to his superior, he was threatened with arrest. According to another contemporary, Leonid M. Sakovsky, \"When Sorokin and Persitz ordered G. Yakubovich to sign arrest warrants, Yakubovich laid his wristwatch on the desk and said, 'Look how many arrest warrants I can sign in one minute.' And then he began to sign the warrants, without reading them.\" The investigations produced completed arrest reports that, according to one historian, are hardly worth reading; they report no details other than personal identification. Instead, they follow a stereotype, devoid of other evidence.\n\nSome 70 teenagers and adults were arrested between January and March 1938, primarily the children of German and Austrian foreign workers and exiles, but also a few Russians. Some of those arrested were clearly not members of the Hitler Youth; 20 were over the age of 30 and one was 62, students at local technical schools or workers in factories. There were 13 pupils and two teachers arrested from the Karl Liebknecht School and a number from Children's Home No. 6. There were seven people, most adults, from the Left Column theater troupe, including Helmut Damerius, a close friend of Wilhelm Pieck's son, Arthur, also an actor and Bruno Schmidtsdorf, the lead actor in Gustav von Wangenheim's 1935 film, \"Kämpfer\". Schmidtsdorf was arrested on February 5, 1938 with fellow troupe members Kurt Ahrendt and Karl Oefelein, all charged with founding a branch of the Hitler Youth. All three were executed three weeks later. Ahrendt was also from the Karl Liebknecht School, where he was a leader of the Young Pioneers.\n\nThose arrested were tortured and often confessed quickly to alleged crimes, either to try to bring the torture to a halt or because they were advised by those longer in custody that it was their only hope for relief from the beatings, which could last for hours. A number of those arrested were the children of prominent communists, such as Hans Beimler, Jr., son of Hans Beimler; Max Maddalena, Jr., son of Max Maddalena; and Gustav Sobottka, Jr., the son of Gustav Sobottka.\n\nOf those arrested, 6 were released, 20 were sentenced from five to ten years, 40 were executed, two were returned to Germany and the Gestapo under the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact; and one died in prison. The first execution was on February 20, 1938 at the Butovo firing range; an additional 39 people were executed there between March and May 1938.\n\nMikhail Persitz was ousted from the NKVD and arrested in April 1939 and indicted with three paragraphs of Article 58. He was tortured and confessed his guilt, though he later recanted. An NKVD troop tribunal tried Persitz and found him guilty of all charges. He was shot on February 2, 1940. Ivan Sorokin, who had been head of the 3rd Department of the Main Directorate of State Security, was charged with mishandling prisoners and fabricating charges. He was tried at an NKVD troop tribunal in August 1939 and was sentenced to death, a sentence confirmed by the Supreme Soviet.\n\nAfter Stalin's death, a re-examination of the conspiracy revealed that the charges were baseless. Survivors were released from detention in 1954 and 1955. Gustav Sobottka, Jr. was rehabilitated postmortem in 1956.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10568944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10568944", "title": "Jonestown conspiracy theories", "text": "Jonestown conspiracy theories\n\nThe Jonestown conspiracy theories are conspiracy theories centering on the Peoples Temple Agricultural Project and the Jonestown massacre. Many proponents of such conspiracy theories contend that outside forces were involved in what occurred at the commune, including the massacre. These theories often include the assertion that the events in Jonestown represented CIA efforts in mind control or similar modes of social experimentation, often believed by proponents of such theories to be a covert example of Project MKUltra in practice.\n\nHeadlines in the \"New York Post\", the \"New York Times\", and the \"San Francisco Examiner\" originally cited reports from the Guyanese army that 408 people had killed themselves while more than 500 others managed to flee into the surrounding jungle.\n\nThe U.S. military arrived several days later and the body count quickly rose; first it was 700, then 780, to a final tally given seven days after the Guyanese report of 909 dead, 4 followers dead at the Temple offices in the capital of Georgetown, and 5 members of Representative Leo Ryan's delegation, including the Congressman himself, murdered at the Port Kaituma airstrip. Only 167 Jonestown inhabitants were reported to have survived.\n\nIn explaining the discrepancies, one U.S. official said the Guyanese \"couldn't count\" while another said that the 400 corpses initially found had just been stacked in such a way that they hid more than 500 more. The dead littered the compound, with piles of bodies decomposing atop one another near the pavilion, and corpses in other buildings or far-flung positions were not readily apparent.\n\nWhile the total number of settlers living in Jonestown at the time of the massacre has never been properly verified, based on the population estimates there could be anywhere between 20 and 120 followers not accounted for. Conspiracy theorists and at least one Congressional aide claimed these people formed the so-called \"Red Brigade\", which was armed guards (or perhaps brainwashed assassins) who carried out the attack at the airport as well as providing more typical duties maintaining security along the roads and around the compound.\n\nAccording to the \"New York Times\", the first trained medical official on the scene was the Guyanese coroner Dr. Leslie C. Mootoo. He and his assistants examined over 100 of the bodies during a 32-hour period and found that the adults had all been injected with cyanide in places which they could not have reached without assistance, such as between the shoulder blades, and that many of them had also been shot. (Charles Huff, one of the first U.S. soldiers on the scene, also reported having seen \"many gunshot victims\", as well as other victims who had been shot with a crossbow, all of whom appeared to have been attempting to flee.) Mootoo also felt that the children were incapable of consenting to suicide. Based on his preliminary findings, Mootoo speculated that the majority of those who died in Jonestown may have been murdered.\n\nDespite Guyana law requiring an autopsy for any unnatural death, the Americans insisted that the cause of death was readily apparent and additional inquiry was not necessary. Relatives and officials back in the United States complained about being kept from the remains, and according to the \"New York Times\", Dr. Sturmer, then President of the National Association of Medical Examiners, sent an open letter to the U.S. Army complaining about the handling of remains and the illegal cremations of most of the Jonestown victims. For a number of reasons, some legal and some merely logistical, the bodies were not flown out of the remote jungle location of Jonestown for up to a week before being flown to New Jersey, which allowed significant decomposition to occur. Ultimately seven autopsies were conducted but the medical examiners were not informed of Dr. Mootoo's preliminary findings and the corpses were far too decayed for injection sites or other wounds to remain identifiable during the procedures.\n\nDespite the growing allegations of misconduct against the Peoples Temple in the U.S., the move to Jonestown was given the full support of the American Embassy in Guyana. Some claim their cooperation was facilitated by Larry Layton's brother-in-law, as well as people including Walter Mondale, Rosalynn Carter, and George Moscone. Others point out that the Georgetown CIA station was in office space within the U.S. Embassy building itself, and at least three diplomatic officials there were allegedly CIA assets.\n\nRichard Dwyer, whose name was listed in \"Who's Who in the CIA,\" was Deputy Chief of Mission of the U.S. Embassy to Guyana at the time. There exists a strong likelihood that Ryan would not have been at the airstrip during the attack without direct intervention by Dwyer. Ryan had intended to remain at the Jonestown compound to continue interviewing families while those wishing to return to the United States were taken to the airstrip, but as the dump truck was leaving Ryan was attacked by Peoples Temple follower and alleged Red Brigade member Don Sly (also known as Ujara). Ujara wielded only a knife and the attack was quickly ended. Ryan was cut in the attack and decided to board the dump truck headed to the airstrip. Already on the dump truck was Larry Layton, who, despite warnings by the defectors that Layton was a strong supporter of Jim Jones, had been allowed to join the group at the last minute. Layton participated in the attacks on the Ryan delegation, ultimately serving nearly twenty years in prison after being disarmed and failing to kill his targets on the Cessna, becoming the only Peoples Temple follower to face criminal charges for these events.\n\nOn September 27, 1980, a column by investigative reporter Jack Anderson was published under the title \"CIA Involved In Jonestown Massacre.\" According to Anderson, Dwyer and Jones had ties to the CIA, with Dwyer's ties dating to at least 1959; when quizzed directly about this alleged CIA involvement, Dwyer responded \"no comment.\" At one point on the sound-recording made during the mass suicide, Jones' own voice commands, \"Take Dwyer on down to the east house\" and a short time later, Jones says \"Get Dwyer out of here before something happens to him.\"\n\nHowever, rather than being in Jonestown, numerous witnesses, including reporters for the Washington Post and San Francisco Chronicle, saw Dwyer miles away at the Port Kaituma airstrip. Dwyer arrived there with some local constables just before the ambush by the Jonestown \"Red Brigade\" security squad. Dwyer was also shot in the buttocks during the Red Brigade's ambush at that location. Dwyer stayed at the airstrip with the survivors during the night. Although no one can be certain, Jones' slurred speech and the apparent confusion evidenced in his followers on the tape at his reference to Dwyer may indicate that Jones mistook someone else (perhaps Charles Garry) for Dwyer.\n\n\"The Jonestown Carnage: A CIA Crime (1978)\" (Russian: \"Гибель Джонстауна - преступление ЦРУ\") by S.F. Alinin, B.G. Antonov and A.N. Itskov was published in 1987 in the Soviet Union, relying upon both unfounded allegations and some relatively indisputable facts. The book cites many characteristics of the Peoples Temple which may have made it unpopular with the U.S. Government. For example, citing the numerous tapes and writings of the Temple, the book notes that the Peoples Temple practiced socialism, preached atheism, and opposed what it termed to be capitalist imperialism by the U.S. Government. The book also cites the numerous meetings that representatives of the Peoples' Temple had with Soviet embassy officials to negotiate a potential exodus to the Soviet Union. The book also references the October 2, 1978 visit to Jonestown by Soviet Embassy representative Feodor Timofeyev, who praised the commune for being a socialist haven, wagging its collective finger in the face of the U.S. government.\n\nIn addition to documented events, the book also includes contentious allegations not revealed in the Jonestown tapes or other available evidence. One such item describes a statement by Timofeyev of a purported meeting on November 18, 1978, with Deborah Touchette, whom Timofeyev claimed passed him a briefcase with cash and Peoples Temple documents inside. Another report in the book concerned a call from Sharon Amos, staying at the Peoples Temple office in Georgetown with her three children on the day of the massacre, where Amos allegedly described a radio message from out of Jonestown about military helicopters and armed men approaching the compound. Amos and her three children died upon Jones' order.\n\nBased upon these and other allegations, the author contends that the group members were assassinated by CIA agents and mercenaries to prevent further political emigration from the U.S. as well as suppress opposition to the U.S. regime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50645972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50645972", "title": "Jordan Howard Sobel", "text": "Jordan Howard Sobel\n\nJordan Howard Sobel (22 September 1929 – 26 March 2010) was a Canadian-American philosopher specializing in ethics, logic, and decision theory. He was a professor of philosophy at the University of Toronto, Canada. In addition to his areas of specialization, Sobel made notable contributions in the fields of philosophy of religion, and value theory.\n\nBorn and raised in Chicago, Illinois, Sobel was a graduate of Hyde Park High School in Chicago before going on to study at the University of Illinois, where he earned a B.S. in Commerce and Law in 1951. He went on to earn an M.A. in Philosophy at the University of Iowa, followed by a doctorate in Philosophy at the University of Michigan in 1961. His dissertation, titled \"What if everyone did that?\" was supervised by Richard Cartwright and William Frankena.\n\nSobel's teaching career starting at Monteith College, Wayne State University (1960–1961), before holding positions at Princeton University (1961–1963), UCLA (1963–1969), University of Massachusetts, Amherst (1968–1969). The same year he joined the University of Toronto, where he taught for 28 years until his retirement in 1997.\n\nSobel has enjoyed a close relationship with the University of Uppsala, Sweden, holding two visiting professorships in 1986, 1991, 1997–1998, and then onwards until 2004. In 2003, the University of Uppsala bestowed an honorary doctorate on Sobel. He also held visiting professorships at Dalhousie University in 1988, and the University of Umeå in 1995.\n\nSobel is the author of more than 75 refereed publications in philosophy, as well as four books. His early publications focused on ethics, most notably utilitarianism, and determinism. Later in his career, his interests turned to decision theory and philosophy of religion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50651703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50651703", "title": "Josephine Lazarus", "text": "Josephine Lazarus\n\nJosephine Lazarus (23 March 1846 - 1910) was an American essayist, book critic, transcendentalist, and Zionist.\n\nLazarus was born March 23, 1846, in New York City, the daughter of Moses and Esther (Nathan) Lazarus. The first piece of work to bring her into prominent notice was the biographical sketch of her sister, Emma Lazarus, which first appeared in \"The Century Magazine\", October, 1888, and was afterward prefixed to “The Poems of Emma Lazarus” (New York and Boston, 1889). Between 1890 and 1893 she wrote articles on Marie Bashkirtseff in \"Scribner's Magazine\" and on Louisa May Alcott and Margaret Fuller in \"The Century Magazine\". In 1895, six of her essays on Jewish subjects, which had appeared from 1892 to 1895 in \"The Century Magazine\" and \"The Jewish Messenger\" were collected and published in book form under the title \"The Spirit of Judaism\". The plea addressed to Jews in these essays was to acquire a larger knowledge of the Jewish situation, to emerge from their spiritual isolation, and to enter into fellowship with those among whom they live; and the plea addressed to Christians was for a more liberal attitude toward Jews and Jewish thought.\n\nLazarus was a featured speaker at the Jewish Women’s Congress in conjunction with the World's Columbian Exposition of 1893 with her essay, \"The Outlook of Judaism\". Between 1897 and 1902 Lazarus wrote, in \"The American Hebrew\", \"The New World\", and \"The Maccabaean\" four articles on aspects of the Zionist movement, with which she was in sympathy. Besides, she published, in 1899, a book entitled \"Madame Dreyfus\"; and for many years she was a contributor of numerous book-notices to \"The Critic\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14895538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14895538", "title": "King Alfred Plan", "text": "King Alfred Plan\n\nThe King Alfred Plan was a fictional CIA-led scheme supporting an international effort to eliminate people of African descent. Specifically it defined how to deal with the threat of a black uprising in the United States by cordoning off black people into concentration camps in the event of a major racial incident.\n\nThe Plan first appeared in John A. Williams' 1967 novel, \"The Man Who Cried I Am\", an account of the life and death of Richard Wright. In the afterword to later editions, Williams compares the King Alfred Plan to intelligence programs devised by J. Edgar Hoover in the 1960s to monitor the movements of black militants. \n\nIt also bears similarities to rumors in the early 1950s surrounding the McCarran Act, an anti-Communist law, in which political subversives were to be rounded up and placed in concentrations camps during a national emergency. When his novel was first published, Williams photocopied portions of the book detailing the King Alfred Plan and left copies in subway car seats around Manhattan. \n\nAs a result, word of the King Alfred Plan spread throughout the black community. The truth of its existence was often assumed to be unchallenged. Performer and musician Gil Scott-Heron created the song \"King Alfred Plan,\" included on his (1972) album \"Free Will\", that takes the Plan at face value. Jim Jones, head of the 'apostolic socialist' People's Temple, discussed the Plan at length in numerous recordings of his rant-style speeches both in the USA and in the Jonestown community in Guyana, treating it as completely genuine.\n\nIn an interview with \"Jet\" Williams explained that he developed the idea when thinking about the question \"What would any administration do in a situation when a large segment of the population was discontented and tearing down the neighborhood . . . threatening the order and the established regime?\"\n"}
{"id": "58055865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58055865", "title": "Kodhamanar", "text": "Kodhamanar\n\nKōthamanār (Tamil: கோதமனார்) was a poet of the Sangam period, to whom 2 verses of the Sangam literature have been attributed, including verse 15 of the Tiruvalluva Maalai.\n\nKodhamanar has written a sole Sangam verse, namely, verse 366 of the Purananuru, apart from verse 15 of the Tiruvalluva Maalai.\n\n"}
{"id": "16241973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16241973", "title": "Linji school", "text": "Linji school\n\nThe Línjì school () is a school of Chan Buddhism named after Linji Yixuan (d. 866). It took prominence in Song China (960–1279), spread to Japan as the Rinzai school and influenced the nine mountain schools of Korean Seon.\n\nBefore the Song dynasty, the Linji school was rather obscure and very little is known about its early history.\n\nThe Five Dynasties and Ten Kingdoms period () (907–960/979 CE) was an era of political upheaval between the fall of the Tang dynasty and the founding of the Song. During this period, five dynasties quickly succeeded one another in the north, and more than twelve independent states were established, of which only ten are traditionally listed.\n\nThe spallation of China in various regions and kingdoms led to a diversification of Chan factions as reflected in the Five Houses of Chán. The Fayan school was especially influential in the Southern Tang (937-975) and Wuyue (907-978). It propagated \"jiaochan yizhi\", \"harmony between Chan and the Teaching\", in opposition to \"jiaowai biechuan\", \"a special transmission outside the teaching\", the latter eventually becoming one of the defining slogans of Chan.\n\nThe Song was a ruling dynasty between 960 and 1279. It is divided into two distinct periods: Northern and Southern Song.\n\nDuring the Northern Song (960–1127), the Song capital was in the northern city of Bianjing (now Kaifeng) and the dynasty controlled most of China proper. The Fayan school was the first faction to gain recognition at the Song court, due to the influence of the buddhist scholar-official Zanning (919–1001). After his death this position was taken over by the Linji school.\n\nThe Linji school brought together the classical elements of Chan Buddhism:\n\nAll of these elements, which shaped the picture of the iconoclastic Zen-master who transmits a wordless truth, were shaped by and dependent on \"literary\" products that shaped the Traditional Zen Narrative which furthered the position of the Linji-school. It is possible that this narrative does not describe the actual Chan-practice, of the Song-Dynasty, nor of the Tang Dynasty.\n\nThe Linji-school became the dominant school within Chan at the beginning of the Song due to support from literati and the court. The figure of Linji, as one of the exemplary masters of Chan, was detailed in a series of writings in the tenth and eleventh century, which supported the Linji school and contributed to its influence and standing.\n\nThe first mention of Linji is in the \"Zutang ji\" (祖堂集 \"Anthology of the Patriarchal Hall), compiled in 952, 86 years after Linji's death. The \"Zutang ji\" was written to support the Xuefeng Yicun lineage. It pictures this lineage as heir to the legacy of Mazu and the Hongzhou school. It was written by two students of Zhaoqing Wendeng (884-972), a dharma descendant of Xuefeng Yicun, whose lineage was traced back to Shitou Xiqian (700-790). Xuefeng's student Yunmen Wenyan (862 or 864–949 CE) established the Yunmen school, while Xuefeng's \"grand-disciple\" Fayan Wenyi established the Fayan school.\n\nThe \"Transmission of the Lamp\" (景德傳燈錄), compiled in 1004 by Daoyuan, is one of the essential Chan writings. It was compiled by a member of the Fayan school, but published after editorial revision by Yang Yi (974-1020), a leading Song literati figure, and a supporter of the Linji faction at the Song court. The Fayang school still has prominence among the competing factions which are portrayed in the Chuangdeng lu, but the growing influence of the Linji-faction is emerging in this document.\n\nThe \"Transmission of the Lamp\" first gives brief biographical information on Lijni, followed by Linji's interactions with Hunagbo, to strengthen the claim of Linji's descendancy form Hunagbo and the Mazu-lineage.\n\nThe \"Transmission of the Lamp\" served several needs and interests:\n\nThe convergence of these influences lead to the creation of the image of the iconoclastic Chan-master, who fulfilled all these requirements:\nNevertheless, this picture deviates from what is believed to be the character of many of the Chan-masters from earlier times, who were fairly conventional: \"they routinely accepted invitations to court, received purple robes and honorary titles, and had monasteries built for them by rulers and officials\".\n\nAccording to Welter, the real founder of the Linji school was Shoushan (or Baoying) Shengnian (首山省念)(926-993), a fourth generation dharma-heir of Linji. The \"Tiansheng-Era Expanded Lamp Record\" (天聖廣燈錄), compiled by the official Li Zunxu (李遵勗)(988-1038) confirms the status of Shoushan Shengnian, but also pictures Linji as a major Chan patriarch and heir to the Hongzhou school of Mazu Daoyi, displacing the prominence of the Fayan lineage. It also established the slogan of \"a special transmission outside the teaching\", supporting the Linji-school claim of \"Chan as separate from and superior to all other Buddhist teachings\".\n\nLinji's teachings are already more or less completed in this document, and he is pictured as the dharma-heir of Huangbo Xiyun (d.850). The Guangdeng lu contains brief biographical details on the life and actions of Linji.\n\nThe main elements of classical Chan are fully displayed in the \"Tiansheng Era Expanded Lamp Record\": encounter dialogue, enlightenment verses, the sayings of the masters and the commentaries upon these sayings, the lack of historical contextualization and biographical detail.\n\nThe \"Sijia yulu\" \"Discourse Records of the Four Masters\", compiled 1066–1069 by Huanglong Huinan (1002–1069), contains the discourse records of Mazu Daoyi (709–788), Baizhang Huaihai (720–814), Huangbo Xiyun (d.850) and Linji, the major patriarchs of the Tang Dynasty according to the Linji faction. In this text, Linji is explicitly placed in line with these teachers of the Hongzhou school.\n\nChan orthodoxy was still not settled by this time. At around the same time the \"Deshan Sijia lu\" was compiled, a comparable text containing the records of Deshan Xuanjian (780–865), whose lineage was traced back to Shitou Xiqian, and included the Chan-branch of Xuefeng Yicun, Yumen and Fayan. Other \"Sijia lu\" included the \"Huanglong Sijia\" (compiled 1141) and the \"Ciming Sijia lu\" (compiled 1153).\n\nThe \"Zhenzhou Linji Huizhao Chansi yulu\" (\"The record of Linji\"), compiled by Yuanjue Zongan in 1120, is the classic version of the record of Linji. Yuanjue Zongan belonged to the Yunmen-faction, and also re-issued the \"Yunmen yulu\", the \"Discourse Records of Yunmen\".\n\nThe separate publication of Linji's records signals the newly acquired status of Linji as one of Chan's major patriarchs. It also reflects the changing identity of Chan during the Song Dynasty, and the growing status of yulu-texts.\n\nThe text of Linji's record is the same as in the \"Tiansheng Guangdeng lu\", but in a different order. The \"Linji yulu\" opens with lectures given by Ljnji at the request of the prefect Governor and other officials, highlighting the close connection of the Linji-faction with the court. The biographical data on Linji's life are expanded, and appear at the end of the text.\n\nIn the \"Linji yulu\" the phrase \"a special transmission outside the scriptures\" is ascribed to Linji himself. It served as a leading slogan for the establishment of the Linji Chan identity by the Linji-faction of Shoushan Shengnian, and was seen as trademark of the Linji Chan identity by Yang Yi and Li Zunxu, the court-related literati who had an essential role in the construction of Linji's record and reputation.\n\nThe Southern Song (, 1127–1279) refers to the period after the Song lost control of northern China to the Jin dynasty. During this time, the Song court retreated south of the Yangtze and established their capital at Lin'an (now Hangzhou). The principal figures of the Linji-school also moved to the south.\n\nDuring the 12th century, a clear difference between the Linji and the Caodong schools emerged. The two schools were competing for support of the literati, who became more powerful when the Song-government started to limit her influence on society. Hongzhi Zhengjue (1091–1157) of the Caodong-school emphasized silent illumination or shikantaza as a means for solitary practice, which could be undertaken by lay-followers. Dahui Zonggao (1089–1163) introduced kanhua practice, \"observing the word-head\", as a means of solitary practice. He organized the study of koans into a system, which was exported to Japan in this period.\n\nThe \"Yuan Dynasty\" was the empire established by Kublai Khan, the leader of the Mongol clan of the Borjigin, after the Mongol Empire conquered the Jin and the Southern Song. Chan teachings started to be mixed with Pure Land Buddhism, as in the teachings of Zhongfeng Mingben (1263-1323).\n\nChan Buddhism enjoyed something of a revival in the Ming dynasty with teachers such as Hanshan Deqing (憨山德清), who wrote and taught extensively on both Chan and Pure Land Buddhism; Miyun Yuanwu (密雲圓悟), who came to be seen posthumously as the first patriarch of the Ōbaku Zen school; as well as Yunqi Zhuhong (雲棲祩宏) and Ouyi Zhixu (蕅益智旭).\n\nChan was taught alongside Pure Land Buddhism in many Chinese Buddhist monasteries. In time much of the distinction between them was lost, and many masters taught both Chan and Pure Land.\n\nWith the downfall of the Ming, several Chinese Chan masters fled to Japan, founding the Ōbaku school.\n\nThe Qing dynasty was the last imperial dynasty of China.\n\nAt the beginning of the Qing, Chan was \"reinvented\" by the \"revival of beating and shouting practices\" by Miyun Yuanwu (1566–1642), and the publication of the \"Wudeng yantong\" (\"The strict transmission of the five Chan schools\") by Feiyin Tongrong’s (1593–1662), a dharma heir of Miyun Yuanwu. The book placed self-proclaimed Chan monks without proper Dharma transmission in the category of \"lineage unknown\" (\"sifa weixiang\"), thereby excluding several prominent Caodong monks.\n\nAfter further centuries of decline during the Qing, Chan was revived again in the early 20th century by Xuyun, a well-known figure of 20th-century Chinese Buddhism. Many Chan teachers today trace their lineage back to Xuyun, including Sheng-yen (聖嚴, Shèngyán) and Hsuan Hua (宣化, Xuānhuà), who have propagated Chan in the West where it has grown steadily through the 20th and 21st century.\n\nChan was repressed in China during the recent modern era in the early periods of the People's Republic, but has more recently been re-asserting itself on the mainland, and has a significant following in Taiwan and Hong Kong as well as among Overseas Chinese.\n\nThe Japanese Zen sect known as the Rinzai school is a branch of the lineage Linji founded. The smaller Japanese Ōbaku school came to Japan in the 17th century as a separate Linji lineage and existed in Japan for many years as a culturally Ming Dynasty Chinese Zen within Japan.\n\nLater the Ōbaku semi-merged into the Rinzai lineage after Hakuin Ekaku's revival of Rinzai in the 18th century. Today the Rinzai and Obaku schools are closely related.\n\nThe now-defunct Fuke-shū also had close ties to the Rinzai school and claimed affiliation with the Linji lineage.\n\nThe Linji school had a considerable influence on the already existing Korean Jogye Order, the name adopted by the nine mountain schools, which were established by students of Mazu Daoyi. Jinul (知訥) (1158-1210) took over the Hua Tou practice of Dahui, but mixed it with the intellectual teachings of Guifeng Zongmi (780–841). Jinul emphasized sudden insight, to be followed by gradual cultivation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3787313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3787313", "title": "Ljubomir Nedić", "text": "Ljubomir Nedić\n\nLjubomir Nedić (24 April 1858 – 29 July 1902) was a popular Serbian writer, philosopher, and literary critic. In the 1890s, two groups were formed in literary criticism, one by the critics gathered around the literary journal \"Delo\", and the other led by Ljubomir Nedić. He was the first to apply aesthetic criteria to literature in his theoretical and critical contributions to the periodical \"Srpski pregled\", the Serbian Review.\n\nLjubomir Nedić was born in Belgrade, Serbia, on 24 April 1858. His philosophical work was neglected by the historians of Serbian philosophy from the moment the Nazi occupied the country in 1941 and suppressed after the end of World War II by the communists who took power. It wasn't until the break-up of Communist Yugoslavia in the 1990s that an interest in his work re-kindled.\n\nNedić was educated chiefly in Belgrade, Jena and Leipzig where he studied medicine, attending lectures on anatomy and psychology and visiting hospitals. After some contemplation he abandoned medecine in favour of philosophy, logic and psychology. Ljubomir Nedić was a student of the world-renowned Wilhelm Wundt, \"the father of experimental psychology\". Nedić's doctoral thesis, defended in 1884, was on contemporary British logic, primarily that of Sir William Hamilton. In 1885 he was made a doctor of philosophy at the University of Leipzig in recognition of \"Die Lehre von der Quantification des Pradikats in der neuern englische Logik\" (The Doctrine Concerning the Quantified Predicate in Recent English Philosophy) his year-long research paper written in London. After ten years spent abroad studying at Jena, Leipzig and London universities, he completed his doctorate under Wundt, and obtained a professorship at Belgrade's Grande École (\"Velika Škola\"), where he acquired great influence by the dignity of his personal character. In Belgrade in 1889 he wrote and published \"O sofizmima\" (On Sophisms)., which brought him more recognition. During the following years he published works on Plato and Socrates, as well as a history of philosophy. The strain of the 14 years of continuous work undermined his health and he was compelled to retire from his professorship at the Grande École (which became accredited as the University of Belgrade in 1905) in 1899. After his retirement he further developed his philosophical position, a speculative eclecticism through which he endeavoured to reconcile metaphysical idealism with the naturalistic and mechanical standpoint of science. In 1890, two groups were formed in literary criticism: one led by Nedić, and the other by the critics gathered around the literary journal \"Delo\". Nedić was the first to apply in the 1890s aesthetic criteria to literature in his theoretical and critical contributions to the periodical \"Srpski pregled\", of which he was the editor.\n\nIn 1901 Nedić published his second book \"Noviji srpski pisci\", as an introduction included the chapter \"O književnoi kritiki\". By then, he was already established as a Serbian new literary critic.\n\nLjubomir Nedić's significance in the history of Serbian thought depends on his position as the philosopher of the great scientific movement of the second half of the nineteenth century, and of the friendship and admiration with which he was regarded by Wundt, and all of his contemporaries, disciples of Hamilton, and Spencer. Nedić was also influenced by the philosophical writings of Eufrosin Poteca.\n\nHis part in philosophy and logic was that of a historian and commentator, for which he was especially qualified by his clarity of exposition; his point of view is one of the main Hegelian traits. Moreover, a synthetist who believes and practices synthetic methods or principles.\n\nHis \"Die Lehre von der Quintification des Pradikats in der neueren englische Logik\" (Leipzig, 1885) is perhaps the most accredited modern work of its kind before the start of the 20th century. He made valuable contributions to the study of modern literary criticism, along with Svetozar Marković, Jovan Skerlić, Bogdan Popović, Pavle Popović, Slobodan Jovanović, and Branko Lazarević. His work was quoted in Johann Eduard Erdmann's \"Logic and Methaphysics\" (1892) and Wilhelm Wundt's \"Textbook of Logic\" (1893) even before the start of the 20th century. He died at Belgrade on 29 July 1902.\n\nThe last years of his life were devoted chiefly as a literary critic. He aimed sharp criticism at the utilitarian theory of art espoused by the late Svetozar Marković, who accentuated the social role of literature in Realism. Quite the opposite, Nedić emphasized the aesthetic side of the lyric poem, using Vojislav Ilić's work as examples. In 1893 he founded and edited \"Srpski pregled\", a literary review, for which he also acted as a literary and dramatic critic, and the influence of his individuality soon made itself noticed. His books in literary criticism are still being reprinted, \"Iz novije srpske lirike\" (1893), \"Noviji srpski pisci\" (1901), and \"Kritičke studije\" (1910).\n\nAs an academic critic educated abroad, Ljubomir Nedić and Bogdan Popović are responsible for the development of Serbian Modernism in prose, verse and art.\n\n"}
{"id": "1354854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1354854", "title": "Ludwig Büchner", "text": "Ludwig Büchner\n\nFriedrich Karl Christian Ludwig Büchner (29 March 1824 – 1 May 1899) was a German philosopher, physiologist and physician who became one of the exponents of 19th-century scientific materialism.\n\nBüchner was born at Darmstadt on 29 March 1824. From 1842 to 1848 he studied physics, chemistry, botany, mineralogy, philosophy and medicine at the University of Giessen, where he graduated in 1848 with a dissertation entitled \"Beiträge zur Hall'schen Lehre von einem excitomotorischen Nervensystem\" (Contributions to the Hallerian Theory of an Excitomotor Nervous System). Afterwards, he continued his studies at the University of Strasbourg, the University of Würzburg (where he studied pathology with the great Rudolf Virchow) and the University of Vienna. In 1852 he became lecturer in medicine at the University of Tübingen, where he published his magnum opus \"Kraft und Stoff: Empirisch-naturphilosophische Studien\" (\"Force and Matter: Empiricophilosophical Studies\", 1855). In this work, the product, according to Lange, of a fanatical enthusiasm for humanity, he sought to demonstrate the indestructibility of matter, and the finality of physical force. The extreme scientific materialism of this work caused so much opposition that he was compelled to give up his post at Tübingen, and he retired to Darmstadt, where he practiced as a physician and contributed regularly to pathological and physiological magazines.\n\nHe continued his philosophical work in defense of materialism, and published \"Natur und Geist\" (\"Nature and Spirit\", 1857), \"Aus Natur und Wissenschaft\" (\"From Nature and Science\", vol. I., 1862; vol. II., 1884), \"Der Fortschritt in Natur und Geschichte im Lichte der Darwinschen Theorie\" (\"Progress in Nature and History in the Light of the Darwinian Theory\", 1884), \"Tatsachen und Theorien aus dem naturwissenschaftlichen Leben der Gegenwart\" (\"Facts and Theories in the Scientific Life of Present\", 1887), \"Fremdes und Eigenes aus dem geistligen Leben der Gegenwart\" (\"Strangers and Selves in the Spiritual Life of the Present\", 1890), \"Darwinismus und Socialismus\" (\"Darwinism and Socialism\", 1894), \"Im Dienste der Wahrheit\" (\"In the Service of Truth\", 1899).\n\nLudwig Büchner's materialism was the founding ground for the freethinkers' movement in Germany. In 1881 he founded in Frankfurt the \"German Freethinkers League\" (\"Deutsche Freidenkerbund\").\n\nHe died at Darmstadt on 1 May 1899.\n\nIn estimating Büchner's philosophy it must be remembered that he was primarily a physiologist, not a metaphysician. Matter and force (or energy) are, he maintained, infinite; the conservation of force follows from the imperishability of matter, the ultimate basis of all science.\n\nBüchner is not always clear in his theory of the relation between matter and force. At one time he refuses to explain it, but generally he assumes that all natural and spiritual forces are indwelling in matter. Just as a steam engine, he says in \"Kraft und Stoff\" (7th ed., p. 130), produces motion, so the intricate organic complex of force-bearing substance in an animal organism produces a total sum of certain effects, which, when bound together in a unity, are called by us mind, soul, thought. Here he postulates force and mind as emanating from original matter, a materialistic monism. But in other parts of his works he suggests that mind and matter are two different aspects of that which is the basis of all things, a monism which is not necessarily materialistic.\n\nBüchner was much less concerned to establish a scientific metaphysics than to protest against the romantic idealism of his predecessors and the theological interpretations of the universe. Nature according to him is purely physical; it has no purpose, no will, no laws imposed by extraneous authority, no supernatural ethical sanction.\n\nModern Christian apologists consider Büchner the father of atheistic evangelism in Germany, a counterpart to Thomas Huxley.\n\nLudwig Büchner was the brother of Georg Büchner, a famous playwright, and Luise Büchner, a women's rights advocate; and the uncle of Ernst Büchner, inventor of the Büchner flask.\n\nAttribution\n\n"}
{"id": "17209547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17209547", "title": "Lynn de Silva", "text": "Lynn de Silva\n\nLynn Alton de Silva (16 June 1919 – 22 May 1982) was a Sri Lankan theologian and Methodist minister. He was the founder and editor of one of the first theological journals on Buddhist-Christian encounter called \"Dialogue\" (1961–1981), chief translator for the revision of the Old Testament of the Sinhalese Bible published as \"New Sinhala Bible\" (1973–1982), and director of the Ecumenical Institute for Study and Dialogue (EISD) in Sri Lanka (1962–1982). Lynn de Silva is widely regarded as one of the foremost Christian practitioners of Buddhist-Christian dialogue in Sri Lanka, and also as one of the pioneers in this dialogue.\n\nLynn de Silva's book titled \"Buddhism: Beliefs and Practices in Sri Lanka\" was mentioned in two journals in the early 1980s as being unparalleled as an introduction to Buddhism in Sri Lanka. Possibly his most notable contribution to theology is the book titled \"The Problem of the Self in Buddhism and Christianity\" , in which he points out an age-old misconception held by Buddhists and Christians that the notion of an immortal soul is a biblical teaching. This book is considered by Schmidt-Leukel to be one of the classics in Buddhist-Christian dialogue, and one which has become well known among those actively involved in this dialogue. The book was also included in John Hick's \"Library of Philosophy and Religion\" series.\n\nLynn de Silva's father and three of his brothers were Methodist ministers. According to Walter Small, Lynn de Silva and his brothers Fred and Denzil were among the most significant Methodist writers during the period 1931–1964 in Sri Lanka. After entering active service in the Methodist ministry in 1946, de Silva pursued his tertiary education, obtaining qualifications including a Bachelor of Divinity degree, two Master's degrees, and a Doctor of Theology degree. In addition to serving in the ministry, de Silva participated for twenty years in the dialogical and ecumenical activities of the World Council of Churches, and he was Executive President of the \"Presidium of the National Council for Religion and Peace\" in Sri Lanka (1979–1980). He died shortly after this role while addressing an audience at a conference, having continued to work until the end. In 1999, the Study Center building of the EISD was dedicated to the memory of Lynn de Silva and Rev. G. B. Jackson, the first director of the EISD.\n\nLynn Anton de Silva was born to a Methodist family on 16 June 1919, in the town of Kurana in Katunayake, Sri Lanka. His father, John Simon de Silva (1868-1940), was a Methodist minister, and his mother, Clara de Silva, was a housewife. Lynn de Silva was the second youngest out of one sister: Pearl (?-1999), and five brothers: Frederick Stanley (1904-1980), Roy, George Denzil (?-1996), Eric and Hugh. Little is known about de Silva's childhood, except that he had a Christian upbringing, growing up under the influence of pious parents. Lynn de Silva and three of his brothers—Fred, Denzil, and Roy—grew up to become Methodist ministers. Hugh de Silva died whilst studying to be ordained.\n\nBefore being accepted as a candidate for the ministry, de Silva was a teacher from 1938 to 1942. In 1942, he trained for the ministry at the United Theological College in Bangalore, and entered active service in the Methodist ministry in 1946. He served as a minister in stations including Kollupitiya, Wellawatte, Kandy, Badulla, Galle, Kalahe, Mutwal and Seeduwa; he served a total of two years at the first two stations, half a year at Kandy, two years at Kalahe, three years at Mutuwal, and three and half years at Seeduwa. In September 1950, de Silva was ordained as a Methodist minister.\n\nStarting from the 1950s, de Silva pursued his tertiary education. He obtained a Bachelor of Divinity (B.D.) degree from Serampore College in India; a Master of Sacred Theology (S.T.M.) degree from the Union Theological Seminary in the City of New York; a Diploma in Buddhism, with a specialisation in Theravada Buddhism, from the Vidyalankara University in Sri Lanka; a Master of Arts (M.A.) degree from University of Birmingham in England; and a Doctor of Theology (Th.D.) degree from Senate of Serampore College. He also took a study course in Mahayana Buddhism at the Vidyodaya University in Sri Lanka. During his studies, Lynn and Lakshmi had their second son, Lalith Chrishantha de Silva, on 16 September 1954.\n\nLynn de Silva's pioneering work in Buddhist-Christian dialogue, and his work in Bible translation, began in the early 1960s after he had completed his service at Seeduwa. In 1962, de Silva was appointed to serve the National Christian Council at the Study Centre for Religion and Society in Wellawatte, which later became the Ecumenical Institute for Study and Dialogue—an important center for Buddhist studies. It was shortly before starting work at the Study Center that Lynn and Lakshmi had their third child, Shiromi Priyala de Silva (later Rodrigo), on 3 September 1961.\n\nWhilst managing the Study Center, de Silva was appointed co-translator of the \"Sinhala Bible Revision Committee\" in 1964. The committee consisted of around forty scholars, including Protestant and Roman Catholic clergy, Buddhist monks, and academics. From 1964 to 1973, the committee focused on translating the Greek version of the New Testament of the Bible into Sinhalese. In the same year in which de Silva started working with the translation committee, Lynn and Lakshmi had their last child and third son, Shantha Asiri de Silva, on 6 March 1964.\n\nFrom 1970 to 1971, de Silva lived in England with Lakshmi while he served the World Churches as William Paton Lecturer at Selly Oak Colleges in Birmingham. While in England, de Silva was also a Visiting Lecturer in Asian Religions at University of Bristol.\n\nAfter his return to Sri Lanka, de Silva continued with Bible translation work, and he was appointed chief translator of the Old Testament into Sinhala in 1973. Fr. Aloysius Peiris S.J. states the following in relation to de Silva's new position as chief translator:\n\nLakshmi de Silva also played an important role in the Bible translation work. After three months of training, she was appointed secretary of the translation committee. Her role in the committee involved technical work such as proofreading, and clerical work such as typing and dealing with the press. She possessed sufficient knowledge in Greek and Hebrew to be able to check the accuracy and consistency of the Bible translation, which she continued at a full-time capacity even after she had fallen ill toward the latter part of her life. With the experience she had gained, Lakshmi compiled valuable material for use in future bible translations. Although she possessed the skills necessary to become a scholar in her own right, she was content to take a back seat to support her husband's work. She died in 1980, just over a year before the \"Sinhala Bible\" translation was completed.\n\nLynn de Silva's quest for unity stretched beyond his dialogue with Buddhists. He was among a group of people that led the movement for the \"contextualisation and inculturation of the Gospel,\" and also among those who \"advocated and struggled for Church Union in Sri Lanka.\" After interracial riots in 1977 between the Sinhalese and Tamils, de Silva became deeply involved in issues of unity and reconciliation between the two cultures. He led a team of Sinhalese leaders for dialogue with the Tamils in Jaffna, and wrote articles on the history of the conflict as well as his analysis of it, in an effort to promote interracial understanding. In 1979, de Silva was appointed to the Presidium of the National Council for Religion and Peace in Sri Lanka, where he was Executive President for one year. Some of his other non-ecumenical activities included serving as editor of the \"Methodist Witness\" and \"Suba Hasun\" Sinhalese journals.\n\nLynn de Silva's interests included writing Sinhalese short stories (e.g., \"Premaoushadaya\" and \"Premaye Rahasa\" ) and painting. One of his paintings had appeared at an exhibit held at the Lionel Wendt Gallery in Colombo, Sri Lanka. In addition to his proficiency in English and Sinhalese, de Silva was familiar with Greek and Hebrew, and literate in Pali.\n\nEver since the 16th century, during colonisations of Sri Lanka by the Portuguese, Dutch and English, Christian missionaries had attempted to convert the Buddhist population into Christianity, with the general belief during this period being that there was nothing worthy of study in non-Christian religions. In the early 19th century, this view started to change, into the conviction that every evangelist should have sound knowledge in Buddhism. The most prominent Christian scholars supporting this conviction were Daniel John Gogerly, C. H. S. Ward, and Robert Spence Hardy.\n\nDespite their belief that knowledge in Buddhism was essential, their attitude toward Buddhism was still negative. Through their polemical writings, they revealed their negative attitudes and beliefs that Buddhism was in error and that Christianity should replace Buddhism. This antagonised the Buddhists, and eventually led to a national Buddhist movement, starting from controversies held at Baddegama (1865), Udanwita (1866) and Gampola (1871). The last and most popular of these controversies was the historic debate Panadura Vadaya, held in Panadura (1873), between Rev. David de Silva and Migettuwatte Gunananda Thera. One of the rules of the debate was that Christians should try to prove that Buddhism is false, and vice versa.\n\nGradually, this negative attitude between Buddhists and Christians started to change. The main influences responsible for the change included (1) more accurate knowledge of Buddhism than was available in the past; (2) interest in and appreciation for Buddhism shown by Western scholars such as Arthur Schopenhauer, whose philosophy was similar to that of the Buddha; (3) the book by Edwin Arnold titled The Light of Asia, which created a popular interest in Buddhism; (4) the Edinburgh Missionary Conference of 1910, which set the tone for a new Christian ecumenical movement; (5) missionary activities of Buddhists such as Anagarika Dharmapala in the West; and (6) the Tambaram Missionary Conference in 1938, where one of the main themes for discussion was \"Christian message in a non-Christian world\".\n\nPerhaps the first Methodist missionary to practice this more positive attitude toward Buddhism was Rev. Stanley Bishop, who made his attitude evident in a book titled \"Gautama or Jesus\" (1907). In the introductory chapter, Bishop states:\n\nAnother significant step toward dialogue between Christians and Buddhists was by Daniel T. Niles, in his book \"Eternal Life Now\" (1946). The purpose of this book is twofold: (1) to convey the Christian message in the Buddhist context, by using terms such as anicca, dukkha, samsara, sarana, anatta, sila, samadhi, panna, and arahant; and (2) to convey Buddhist truths within the context of Christianity.\n\nWith the resurgence of Buddhism after Sri Lankan independence, the conviction grew even stronger for the need to consider Christianity in the light of a culture and heritage that is predominantly Buddhist, which led to an increased need for dialogue between the two religions. Consequently, the \"Study Center for Religion and Society\", which was later renamed to \"Ecumenical Institute for Study and Dialogue\" (EISD), was established in Colombo in 1951. The center was initially managed by Rev. G. B. Jackson, and later directed by Lynn de Silva, whose focus was on Buddhist studies.\n\n Lynn de Silva was the director of the \"Study Center for Religion and Society\" from 1962. The center was organised into two divisions: \"Division of Buddhist Studies\", and \"Division of Frontier Studies\". The purpose of the former division was to promote study and research in Buddhism, while the purpose of the latter division was to explore the theological and social implications of the Christian faith in Sri Lanka. The center was involved in successfully organising a number of dialogues, meetings, and seminaries, and it became an internationally recognised center for dialogue with Buddhism and other ecumenical concerns. Furthermore, the center was recognised in the 1970s and 1980s as one of the most active of all similar study centres worldwide.\n\nIn 1977, the center was renamed to \"Ecumenical Institute for Study and Dialogue\" (EISD), and set up as an autonomous body separate from the control of religious bodies and institutions. Although the primary focus was maintained on Buddhist-Christian studies and dialogue, a third additional division called \"Division of Studies of other Faiths and Ideologies\" was established to initiate studies in other religions. In addition to publishing books and papers on dialogue between Christianity and other religions, the EISD published the \"Dialogue\" journal on a quarterly basis, which was founded and initially edited by Lynn de Silva.\n\nThe assembly at Nairobi in 1975 of the World Council of Churches was an important milestone in the history of inter-religious dialogue. For the first time, representatives from five different faiths were present at the gathering, and the discussions were centred around the topic of inter-religious dialogue.\n\nAt a session that emphasised \"seeking community\" with people of other faiths, cultures and ideologies, the presentations were driven by, as the former director of the WCC sub-unit \"Dialogue with People of Living Faiths and Ideologies\" (DFI) – S. J. Samartha – put it: \"fear of losing the 'uniqueness' of Christ, fear of weakening the sense of 'mission', and the persistent fear of 'syncretism'.\" Presentations at this session were marked by conflicting opinions between a group of European theologians and a group of Asian and African theologians, which resulted from the conflicting viewpoints between the theologies practised by the two groups. While the Europeans voiced their fear of inter-religious dialogue, the African and Asian participants called for a more definite endorsement of dialogue.\n\nAccording to Sperber and de Alwis, de Silva was, in this debate, one of the leading voices in the Asian viewpoint. S. J. Samartha notes de Silva's contribution as \"one of the most powerful interventions in the Assembly in support of dialogue,\" and Carl Hallencreutz describes it as \"the personal witness of an experienced theologian from Sri Lanka.\"\n\nIn his speech to the general assembly at Nairobi, de Silva asserted that his concern was to alleviate the fear voiced by Europeans about dialogue which, he claimed, arises in people who have not lived among people of other faiths. He argued that the spirituality of others can be shared without diminishing one's loyalty to one's own faith. Further, he argued that dialogue is a safeguard against syncretism, not a temptation to syncretism, and that Asian Christians should overcome the obstacles that separate one religion from another, and seek to express the Christian faith in the thought-forms and life-forms of Asia.\n\nIn a publication titled \"Freedom from Teutonic Captivity\" (\"Dialogue\", New Series, Vol. 3, No. 1), de Silva shared his thoughts on the Nairobi debate, and he presented the significance of the debate as follows:\n\nLynn de Silva gained an interest in Buddhism and its culture at an early stage in his ministry. He believed that the credibility of Christianity depended on its ability to relate to Buddhism, which was the faith of the majority of the Sri Lankan population. His objective was to develop a richer appreciation of the similarities between Buddhism and Christianity, in particular, to communicate the Christian message in a manner that the Sri Lankan culture understood, and to construct a theology that is focused towards the Buddhist cultural environment. To this end, he used Buddhist concepts to communicate Christian beliefs in a language understood from the Buddhist context, and he aimed at extending Christian theology with Buddhist concepts to gain a more thorough understanding of Christianity.\n\nTo obtain the necessary background in Sri Lankan Buddhist practices, de Silva consulted reputed Buddhist monks and scholars, visited Buddhist places of worship, and consulted written sources on Sri Lankan Buddhism. Although most of his studies were completed in English, he took a special effort to master Sinhalese and the Sri Lankan culture. Furthermore, he became proficient in Pali, the language of the Buddhist scriptures. His findings eventually led to the book titled \"Buddhism: Beliefs and Practices in Sri Lanka\" , which is widely cited in religious literature (e.g.,). According to two journals, this book was unparalleled as an introduction to Buddhism in Sri Lanka in the early 1980s, and it was also the most complete, thorough and sensitive book on Buddhism in Sri Lanka, resulting in it generally being recommended by professors and monks as a standard book on Buddhist practices in Sri Lanka.\n\nIn 1979 de Silva released a book titled \"The Problem of the Self in Buddhism and Christianity\" , which has since been cited extensively (e.g.,) and attracted reviews from international journals (e.g.,). This book was also considered by Aloysius Pieris to be de Silva's most outstanding contribution to Theology, and by Perry Schmidt-Leukel to be one of the classics in Buddhist-Christian dialogue, and one that has become well known among those actively involved in this dialogue. Furthermore, this book was included in John Hick's \"Library of Philosophy and Religion\" series. In this book, de Silva compares the biblical notion of \"the soul\" (pneuma) or \"the self,\" with the Buddhist doctrine of \"no soul\" (anattā) or \"no self.\" Contrary to popular belief, de Silva shows that modern Christian scholarship does not support the notion of a soul as an immortal entity separate from the body. He argues that such a misconception arose as a consequence of the translation of the Bible into Greek. Based on his observation, de Silva shows how the Buddhist doctrine of \"anattā\" is complementary to the Christian notion of personal identity – \"pneuma\". He distinguishes that, while \"pneuma\" focuses on man as a relational entity, \"anattā\" focuses on man as an isolated entity. Furthermore, de Silva infers that if we do consider \"anattā\" to be real in Buddhism or Christianity, \"pneuma\" must also be real for Nibbāna or the Kingdom of God to be a positive ideal.\n\nIn his review of de Silva's book, Joseph Kitagawa argues that de Silva is too narrow in his analysis of the anatta doctrine; he claims that a better analysis would have been for de Silva to take into consideration the broader implication of the anattā doctrine, and to challenge the very basis of Greek philosophy which had influenced much of Christian theology. Furthermore, Kitagawa argues that de Silva could have entertained the possibility that Theravada Buddhism might look for Ultimate Reality more readily in the Mahayana Buddhist tradition, rather than turning towards Christianity. In Donald Mitchell's analysis of the same book by de Silva, he states that a better framework for dialogue with Hindu traditions could be allowed if de Silva considered an expanded hermeneutical circle that includes a more positive notion of soul that is compatible with the biblical understanding of man. By doing so, Mitchell argues, de Silva would be able to \"include inherently valuable insights from the Christian tradition on the nature of man.\"\n\nFrom the evangelical theologians, Tissa Weerasinghe believed that de Silva needs to put more emphasis on the \"glaring disharmony\" between Christianity and Buddhism that their differing views on the biblical notion of \"soul\" suggest. In relation to de Silva's treatment of this notion, Dyrness states that insights into the biblical picture of human life apart from God cannot be found by a dialogue with Buddhism, but by Christian Asians carefully considering the Scriptures and their own Asian setting. A similar perspective is taken by Lim et al., who insist that de Silva should communicate the Christian message to the Buddhists, instead of giving Buddhist meanings to Christian concepts and harmonising in a syncretistic way the concepts belonging to the two religions. In a publication that aims at an evangelical approach to religions and cultures, Yung interprets de Silva's contribution as not so much an able exercise in dialogue, but, rather, a brilliant Christian apologetic, addressed to Theravada Buddhists.\n\nWith an inclusivistic view on religion in the early stages of his career, Lynn de Silva believed that salvation does not only apply to Christians, but also to other religions. He maintained that while Christians can use Christ as their means for salvation, other religions can use their own means for salvation. Later in his life, de Silva developed more of a pluralistic view on religion, believing that neither of the two religions is superior to the other. Perry Schmidt-Leukel notes how this change of view is evident in de Silva's posthumous article \"Buddhism and Christianity Relativised\", in volume 9 of the \"Dialogue\" journal.\n\nIn her PhD thesis containing a chapter on de Silva's work, Damayanthi Niles claims that there is a problem with de Silva's argument in relation to salvation, in that it \"reconciles the exclusive Christ-event and the inclusive vision of God's salvific plan purely on Christian terms,\" and that it does not take the \"religious visions and commitments of other faiths seriously.\" Furthermore, she argues that de Silva's understanding of salvation, as found in his paper \"Non-Christian Religions and God's Plan of Salvation\" , borrows a religious idea from other religions and uses the idea to make Christianity more palatable to other religions and to Christians sensitive to pluralism.\n\nIn the last few years before his death, de Silva focused his study towards the study of human death, namely, the field of Thanatology. His quest was motivated mainly by the death of his wife Lakshmi in December 1980, but also by his curiosity about the meaning of resurrection. With this frame of mind, de Silva studied the beliefs and practices of people with respect to death, such as the phenomenon of mediums, with help from Buddhist exponents of reincarnation. Although traces of his findings can be seen in his last writings, de Silva died before completing his study. His last findings were published posthumously by his friend and colleague, Fr. Aloysius Pieris S.J., in the paper \"Buddhism and Christianity Relativised\", which appeared in volume 9 of the \"Dialogue\" journal.\n\nIn this paper, de Silva talks about \"Life Beyond Death,\" and writes that theologians should not ignore data from Parapsychology. He urges that evidence about the paranormal is compelling, and that it is a field that merits careful study.\nRegarding Purgatory, de Silva states in this paper that the Hindu/Buddhist view, where Ultimate Reality is reached through a process of purification through liberation from \"self\" and elevation to stages of spiritual development, is more acceptable than the belief in a single life on earth and an everlasting hell or heaven after death. Furthermore, he insists that the Hindu/Buddhist view conforms to modern theological as well as psychical research. In agreement with the Hindu/Buddhist view, de Silva, in this paper, regards Purgatory to be a place of cleansing, which ultimately makes a person ready for eternal life in Heaven.\n\nTissa de Alwis, in his Th.D. thesis studying the works of Lynn de Silva, argues that \"de Silva's attempt to harmonise Rebirth, Purgatory, and an intermediate state, which is a kind of a continuum in which one passes from a near state of annihilation to the closest union with God, is inconsistent with the radical picture of Biblical anatta\"; furthermore, de Alwis states that de Silva \"fails to define lostness in the final sense and slides into an unrestricted universalism.\"\n\nOn 22 May 1982, while addressing the audience at a conference, Lynn de Silva succumbed to cardiac arrest. The conference was organised by the National Christian Council on the theme \"Jesus Christ, Life of the World.\" Being the third and final speaker, he completed his discourse on 2 Timothy 3: 15–17 and he stood up again to answer a question from the audience, but he was barely able to formulate a reply and sat back in his chair. He died soon afterward, having continued to work until the end.\n\nIn March 1999, the Study Center building of the EISD was dedicated to the memory of Rev. G. B. Jackson and Lynn de Silva, by Rt. Rev. Andrew Oliver Kumarage (Bishop of Kurunegala). This building is used by a number of institutions and church-related organisations to provide accommodation for participants involved in study programs at the EISD. On 17 November 2009, an article in the Daily News newspaper promoting World Philosophy Day featured a picture and short description of Lynn de Silva, alongside other Sri Lankan philosophers such as K. N. Jayatilleke and Ananda Coomaraswamy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50574103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50574103", "title": "Mark D. Jordan", "text": "Mark D. Jordan\n\nMark D. Jordan is the Andrew Mellon Professor of Christian Thought at Harvard Divinity School and Professor of the Studies of Women, Gender, and Sexuality in the Harvard Faculty of Arts and Sciences. His focus is on European philosophy, gender studies, and sexuality. Much of his early work related to Catholic teachings of Thomas Aquinas. In recent years, he has more specifically focused on religious doctrine and its relation to LGBT issues.\n\nIn addition to his scholarship and classroom teaching, Jordan has discussed sexual and religious issues to audiences that range from college lectureships to National Public Radio, the \"New York Times\", and CNN.\n\nJordan won the annual Randy Shilts Award for nonfiction for his 2011 book, \"Recruiting Young Love: How Christians Talk about Homosexuality\".\n\nPrior to his return to Harvard in 2014, Jordan had held endowed professorships at Emory, Washington University at St. Louis, Notre Dame and at Harvard. He has received a Guggenheim Fellowship, a Fulbright-Hays grant (Spain), a Luce Fellowship in Theology, and a grant from the Ford Foundation \n\nJordan received his BA from St. John’s College and his Ph.D. from the University of Texas at Austin. He grew up in Dallas, where he graduated from St. Mark's School of Texas.\n\n"}
{"id": "25787010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25787010", "title": "Meera Nanda", "text": "Meera Nanda\n\nMeera Nanda (born 1954) is an Indian writer and philosopher of science based in the United States, who has authored several works critiquing the influence of Hindutva, postcolonialism and postmodernism on science, and the flourishing of pseudoscience and vedic science.\n\nNanda was educated in science and philosophy with a PhD in biotechnology from the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi and a PhD in science studies from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.\n\nShe was a John Templeton Foundation Fellow in Religion and Science (2005–2007). In January 2009, she was a Fellow at the Jawaharlal Nehru Institute for Advanced Study, in the Jawaharlal Nehru University for research in Science, Post-Modernism and Culture. She was also a visiting faculty of history and philosophy of science at Indian Institute of Science Education and Research, Mohali from 2010 to 15 May 2017.\n\nNanda has authored several works on religion, most notably \"Prophets Facing Backward: Postmodern Critiques of Science and Hindu Nationalism in India\" (2004), and her 2009 book \"The God Market\" which examined how India is experiencing a rising tide of popular Hinduism, including government financing of Hinduism despite the nation's secular characteristic. The book was also reviewed by William Dalrymple in \"Outlook Magazine\".\n\nNanda notes the popularity of yoga exercises in the west, and the discomfort of Indians with this popularisation, who \"blame Americans and other 'decadent' Westerners for reducing their spiritually rich tradition to mere calisthenics.\" Yet, she questions the idea that yoga is a \"timeless\" and \"eternal\" practice, which lies at the heart of Hinduism. She has criticised the Hindu American Foundation (HAF) for \nNanda notes that the yoga asanas do not have Vedic origins, and were treated with disdain by the 19th century Hindu elites, including Swami Vivekananda. She further notes that the separation of the physical practices from their cultural background started in India, not in the west, when Indian nationalists tried to counter western influences and\nHAF rebutted her claims in a reply which pointed out that even the few sources she mentions in her book such as Mark Singleton, have themselves not made the claims that she ascribes them to. HAF also presented a brief outline of the recorded history of yoga, which disproved her arguments.\n\nHer critique has been rejected by the Hindu American Foundation. Swaminathan Venkataraman, of the Hindu American Foundation, alleged that Nanda harboured \"hatred\" for Swami Vivekananda, and that she feared the emergence of an articulate Hindu voice bringing Hindu perspectives into the public sphere. Rajiv Malhotra criticised her for denouncing Indian culture and painting Hinduism as anti-scientific while allegedly praising Protestantism as scientific.\n\nHowever, Nanda has pointed out that her criticism was equally applicable to all \"resurgent religious-political movements\" not only among Hindus, but also Christians and Muslims. The Bush White House's recruitment of Christian evangelicals and corporate scientists to shape policies on issues such as open support for Biblical Flood geology and stem cell research was very similar to the state support for Vedic astrology by the Hindu nationalists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "767234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=767234", "title": "Moses Schönfinkel", "text": "Moses Schönfinkel\n\nMoses Ilyich Schönfinkel, also known as Moisei Isai'evich Sheinfinkel' (; 4 September 1889 – 1942), was a Russian logician and mathematician, known for the invention of combinatory logic.\n\nSchönfinkel attended the Novorossiysk University of Odessa, studying mathematics under Samuil Osipovich Shatunovskii (1859–1929), who worked in geometry and the foundations of mathematics. From 1914 to 1924, Schönfinkel was a member of David Hilbert's group at the University of Göttingen. On 7 December 1920 he delivered a talk to the group where he outlined the concept of combinatory logic. Heinrich Behmann, a member of Hilbert's group, later revised the text and published it in 1924. In 1929, Schönfinkel had one other paper published, on special cases of the decision problem (\"Entscheidungsproblem\"), that was prepared by Paul Bernays.\n\nAfter he left Göttingen, Schönfinkel returned to Moscow. By 1927 he was reported to be mentally ill and in a sanatorium. His later life was spent in poverty, and he died in Moscow some time in 1942. His papers were burned by his neighbors for heating.\n\nSchönfinkel developed a formal system that avoided the use of bound variables. His system was essentially equivalent to a combinatory logic based upon the combinators B, C, I, K, and S. Schönfinkel was able to show that the system could be reduced to just K and S and outlined a proof that a version of this system had the same power as predicate logic.\n\nHis paper also showed that functions of two or more arguments could be replaced by functions taking a single argument. This replacement mechanism simplifies work in both combinatory logic and lambda calculus and would later be called currying, after Haskell Curry. While Curry attributed the concept to Schönfinkel, it had already been used by Frege.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50222783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50222783", "title": "NUSAP", "text": "NUSAP\n\nNUSAP is a notational system for the management and communication of uncertainty in science for policy, based on five categories for characterizing any quantitative statement: Numeral, Unit, Spread, Assessment and Pedigree. NUSAP was introduced by Silvio Funtowicz and Jerome Ravetz in the 1990 book Uncertainty and quality in science for policy. See also van der Sluijs et al. 2005.\n\nThe name \"NUSAP\" is an acronym for the categories just mentioned.\n\n\nThe pedigree can be expressed by means of a matrix; the columns represent the various phases of production or use of the information, and each column contains marks to rank the performance. Marks can be numerical as well as qualitative, see an example here. Recent applications of NUSAP are in the field of climate science, hydrology, medical research and risk assessment.\nApplications relevant to the activities of the European Food Safety Authority EFSA are Bouwknegt and Havelaar (2015) and EFSA BIOHAZ Panel, (2015).\n\nTogether with Sensitivity auditing NUSAP can be considered as a method useful at the science policy interface - when numbers produced by either experiment, survey or mathematical modelling need to be used in the appraisal or the formulation of a policy. See also Post-normal science\n\nAn early description of NUSAP due to Funtowicz and Ravetz \nis here.\n\n"}
{"id": "26588920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26588920", "title": "Najm al-Dīn al-Qazwīnī al-Kātibī", "text": "Najm al-Dīn al-Qazwīnī al-Kātibī\n\nNajm al-Dīn al-Qazwīnī al-Kātibī (died AH 675 / 1276 CE) was a Persian Islamic philosopher and logician of the Shafi`i school. A student of Athīr al-Dīn al-Abharī. His most important works are a treatise on logic, \"Al-Risala al-Shamsiyya\", and one on metaphysics and the natural sciences, \"Hikmat al-'Ain\".\n\nHe helped establish the Maragha observatory along with Nasir al-Din al-Tusi and several other astronomers.\n\nHis work on logic, the \"al-Risāla al-Shamsiyya\" (\"Logic for Shams al-Dīn\"), was commonly used as the first major text on logic in madrasahs, right down until the twentieth century and is \"perhaps the most studied logic textbook of all time\". Al-Katibi's logic was largely inspired by the formal Avicennian system of temporal modal logic, but is more elaborate and departs from it in several ways. While Avicenna considered ten modalities and examined six of them, al-Katibi considers many more modalized propositions and examines thirteen which he considers 'customary to investigate'.\n\n"}
{"id": "34023953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34023953", "title": "Perspicacity", "text": "Perspicacity\n\nPerspicacity (also called perspicaciousness) is a penetrating discernment (from the Latin perspicācitās, meaning sharpsightedness, discrimination)—a clarity of vision or intellect which provides a deep understanding and insight.\n\nIn 17th-century Europe, René Descartes devised systematic rules for clear thinking in his work \"Regulæ ad directionem ingenii\" (Rules for the direction of natural intelligence). In Descartes' scheme, intelligence consisted of two faculties: perspicacity, which provided an understanding or intuition of distinct detail; and sagacity, which enabled reasoning about the details in order to make deductions. Rule 9 was \"De Perspicacitate Intuitionis\" (On the Perspicacity of Intuition). He summarised the rule as \n\nIn his study of the elements of wisdom, the modern psychometrician Robert Sternberg identified perspicacity as one of its six components or dimensions; the other five being reasoning, sagacity, learning, judgement and the expeditious use of information. In his analysis, perspicacity was described as \n\nIn an article dated October 7, 1966, the journal \"Science\" discussed NASA scientist-astronaut program recruitment efforts:\nBeing perspicacious about other people, rather than having false illusions, is a sign of good mental health. The quality is needed in psychotherapists who engage in person-to-person dialogue and counselling of the mentally ill.\n\nThe artist René Magritte illustrated the quality in his 1936 painting \"Perspicacity\". The picture shows an artist at work who studies his subject intently: it is an egg. But the painting which he is creating is not of an egg; it is an adult bird in flight.\n\n"}
{"id": "23005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23005", "title": "Philip K. Dick", "text": "Philip K. Dick\n\nPhilip Kindred Dick (December 16, 1928 – March 2, 1982) was an American writer known for his work in science fiction. His work explored philosophical, social, and political themes, with stories dominated by monopolistic corporations, alternative universes, authoritarian governments, and altered states of consciousness. His writing also reflected his interest in metaphysics and theology, and often drew upon his life experiences in addressing the nature of reality, identity, drug abuse, schizophrenia, and transcendental experiences.\n\nBorn in Illinois, he eventually moved to California and began publishing science fiction stories in the 1950s. His stories initially found little commercial success. His 1962 alternative history novel \"The Man in the High Castle\" earned Dick early acclaim, including a Hugo Award for Best Novel. He followed with science fiction novels such as \"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?\" (1968) and \"Ubik\" (1969). His 1974 novel \"Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said\" won the John W. Campbell Memorial Award for best novel. Following a series of religious experiences in February 1974, Dick's work engaged more explicitly with issues of theology, philosophy, and the nature of reality, as in such novels as \"A Scanner Darkly\" (1977) and \"VALIS\" (1981). A collection of his non-fiction writing on these themes was published posthumously as \"The Exegesis of Philip K. Dick\" (2011). He died in 1982, at age 53, due to complications from a stroke.\n\nDick's writing produced 44 published novels and approximately 121 short stories, most of which appeared in science fiction magazines during his lifetime.\n\nA variety of popular films based on Dick's works have been produced, including \"Blade Runner\" (1982), \"Total Recall\" (adapted twice: in 1990 and in 2012), \"Minority Report\" (2002), \"A Scanner Darkly\" (2006), \"The Adjustment Bureau\" (2011), and \"Blade Runner 2049\" (2017).\n\nIn 2005, \"Time\" named \"Ubik\" one of the hundred greatest English-language novels published since 1923. In 2007, Dick became the first science fiction writer to be included in The Library of America series.\n\nPhilip Kindred Dick and his twin sister, Jane Charlotte Dick, were born six weeks prematurely on December 16, 1928, in Chicago, Illinois, to Dorothy (née Kindred; 1900–1978) and Joseph Edgar Dick (1899–1985), who worked for the United States Department of Agriculture. His paternal grandparents were Irish. The death of Jane six weeks later, on January 26, 1929, profoundly affected Philip's life, leading to the recurrent motif of the \"phantom twin\" in his books.\n\nHis family later moved to the San Francisco Bay Area. When Philip was five, his father was transferred to Reno, Nevada; when Dorothy refused to move, she and Joseph divorced. Both parents fought for custody of Philip, which was awarded to the mother. Dorothy, determined to raise Philip alone, took a job in Washington, D.C., and moved there with her son. Philip was enrolled at John Eaton Elementary School (1936–1938), completing the second through fourth grades. His lowest grade was a \"C\" in Written Composition, although a teacher remarked that he \"shows interest and ability in story telling\". He was educated in Quaker schools. In June 1938, Dorothy and Philip returned to California, and it was around this time that he became interested in science fiction. Dick stated that he read his first science fiction magazine, \"Stirring Science Stories\" in 1940 at the age of 12.\n\nDick attended Berkeley High School in Berkeley, California. He and fellow science fiction author Ursula K. Le Guin were members of the same graduating class (1947) but did not know each other at the time. After graduation, he briefly attended the University of California, Berkeley, (September 1949 to November 11, 1949) with an honorable dismissal granted January 1, 1950. Dick did not declare a major and took classes in history, psychology, philosophy, and zoology. Through his studies in philosophy, he believed that existence is based on internal human perception, which does not necessarily correspond to external reality; he described himself as \"an acosmic panentheist,\" believing in the universe only as an extension of God. After reading the works of Plato and pondering the possibilities of metaphysical realms, Dick came to the conclusion that, in a certain sense, the world is not entirely real and there is no way to confirm whether it is truly there. This question from his early studies persisted as a theme in many of his novels. Dick dropped out because of ongoing anxiety problems, according to his third wife Anne's memoir. She also says he disliked the mandatory ROTC training. At Berkeley, Dick befriended poet Robert Duncan and poet and linguist Jack Spicer, who gave Dick ideas for a Martian language. Dick claimed to have hosted a classical music program on KSMO Radio in 1947. From 1948 to 1952, Dick worked at Art Music Company, a record store on Telegraph Avenue.\n\nDick sold his first story in 1951, and from then on wrote full-time. During 1952, his first speculative fiction publications appeared in July and September numbers of \"Planet Stories\", edited by Jack O'Sullivan, and in \"If\" and \"The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction\" that year. His debut novel was \"Solar Lottery\", published in 1955 as half of Ace Double #D-103 alongside \"The Big Jump\" by Leigh Brackett. The 1950s were a difficult and impoverished time for Dick, who once lamented, \"We couldn't even pay the late fees on a library book.\" He published almost exclusively within the science fiction genre, but dreamed of a career in mainstream fiction. During the 1950s, he produced a series of non-genre, relatively conventional novels. In 1960, he wrote that he was willing to \"take twenty to thirty years to succeed as a literary writer\". The dream of mainstream success formally died in January 1963 when the Scott Meredith Literary Agency returned all of his unsold mainstream novels. Only one of these works, \"Confessions of a Crap Artist\", was published during Dick's lifetime.\n\nIn 1963, Dick won the Hugo Award for \"The Man in the High Castle\". Although he was hailed as a genius in the science fiction world, the mainstream literary world was unappreciative, and he could publish books only through low-paying science fiction publishers such as Ace. Even in his later years, he continued to have financial troubles. In the introduction to the 1980 short story collection \"The Golden Man\", Dick wrote:\nIn 1971, Dick's marriage to Nancy Hackett broke down, and she moved out of their house in Santa Venetia, California. Having struggled with amphetamine abuse for much of the past decade (stemming in part from his need to maintain a prolific writing regimen due to the financial exigencies of the science fiction field), he allowed other drug users to move into the house. Following the release of 21 novels between 1960 and 1970, these developments were exacerbated by unprecedented periods of writer's block, with Dick ultimately failing to publish new fiction until 1974.\n\nOne day in November, Dick returned to his home to discover that it had been burglarized, with his safe blown open and personal papers missing. The police were unable to determine the culprit, and even suspected Dick of having done it himself. Shortly afterwards, he was invited to be guest of honor at the Vancouver Science Fiction Convention in February 1972. Within a day of arriving at the conference and giving his speech \"The Android and the Human\", he informed people that he had fallen in love with a woman named Janis whom he had met there and announced that he would be remaining in Vancouver. An attendee of the conference, Michael Walsh, movie critic for local newspaper \"The Province\", invited Dick to stay in his home, but asked him to leave two weeks later due to his erratic behavior. This was followed by Janis ending her and Dick's relationship and moving away. On March 23, 1972, Dick attempted suicide by taking an overdose of the sedative potassium bromide. Subsequently, after deciding to seek help, Dick became a participant in X-Kalay (a Canadian Synanon-type recovery program), and was well enough by April to return to California.\n\nUpon relocating to Orange County, California at the behest of California State University, Fullerton professor Willis McNelly (who initiated a correspondence with Dick during his X-Kalay stint), he donated manuscripts, papers and other materials to the University's Special Collections Library, where they are archived in the Philip K. Dick Science Fiction Collection in the Pollak Library. During this period, Dick befriended a circle of Fullerton State students that encompassed several aspiring science fiction writers, including K. W. Jeter, James Blaylock and Tim Powers.\n\nDick returned to the events of these months while writing his 1977 novel \"A Scanner Darkly\", which contains fictionalized depictions of the burglary of his home, his time using amphetamines and living with addicts, and his experiences of X-Kalay (portrayed in the novel as \"New-Path\"). A factual account of Dick's recovery program participation was portrayed in his posthumously released book \"The Dark Haired Girl\", a collection of letters and journals from the period.\n\nOn February 20, 1974, while recovering from the effects of sodium pentothal administered for the extraction of an impacted wisdom tooth, Dick received a home delivery of Darvon from a young woman. When he opened the door, he was struck by the beauty of the dark-haired girl and was especially drawn to her golden necklace. He asked her about its curious fish-shaped design. \"This is a sign used by the early Christians,\" she said, and then left. Dick called the symbol the \"vesicle pisces\". This name seems to have been based on his conflation of two related symbols, the Christian ichthys symbol (two intersecting arcs delineating a fish in profile) which the woman was wearing, and the vesica piscis.\n\nDick recounted that as the sun glinted off the gold pendant, the reflection caused the generation of a \"pink beam\" of light that mesmerized him. He came to believe the beam imparted wisdom and clairvoyance, and also believed it to be intelligent. On one occasion, Dick was startled by a separate recurrence of the pink beam. It imparted the information to him that his infant son was ill. The Dicks rushed the child to the hospital, where his suspicion was confirmed by professional diagnosis.\n\nAfter the woman's departure, Dick began experiencing strange hallucinations. Although initially attributing them to side effects from medication, he considered this explanation implausible after weeks of continued hallucinations. \"I experienced an invasion of my mind by a transcendentally rational mind, as if I had been insane all my life and suddenly I had become sane,\" Dick told Charles Platt.\n\nThroughout February and March 1974, Dick experienced a series of hallucinations, which he referred to as \"2-3-74\", shorthand for February–March 1974. Aside from the \"pink beam\", Dick described the initial hallucinations as geometric patterns, and, occasionally, brief pictures of Jesus and ancient Rome. As the hallucinations increased in length and frequency, Dick claimed he began to live two parallel lives, one as himself, \"Philip K. Dick\", and one as \"Thomas\", a Christian persecuted by Romans in the first century AD. He referred to the \"transcendentally rational mind\" as \"Zebra\", \"God\" and \"VALIS\". Dick wrote about the experiences, first in the semi-autobiographical novel \"Radio Free Albemuth\" and then in \"VALIS\", \"The Divine Invasion\" and the unfinished \"The Owl in Daylight\" (the VALIS trilogy).\n\nIn 1974, Dick wrote a letter to the FBI, accusing various people, including University of California, San Diego professor Frederic Jameson, of being foreign agents of Warsaw Pact powers. He also wrote that Stanisław Lem was probably a false name used by a composite committee operating on orders of the Communist party to gain control over public opinion.\n\nAt one point, Dick felt that he had been taken over by the spirit of the prophet Elijah. He believed that an episode in his novel \"Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said\" was a detailed retelling of a biblical story from the Book of Acts, which he had never read. Dick documented and discussed his experiences and faith in a private journal he called his \"exegesis\", portions of which were later published as \"The Exegesis of Philip K. Dick\". The last novel Dick wrote was \"The Transmigration of Timothy Archer\"; it was published shortly after his death in 1982.\n\nDick was married five times:\n\nDick had three children, Laura Archer Dick (born February 25, 1960 to Dick and his third wife, Anne Williams Rubenstein), Isolde Freya Dick (now Isa Dick Hackett) (born March 15, 1967 to Dick and his fourth wife, Nancy Hackett), and Christopher Kenneth Dick (born July 25, 1973 to Dick and his fifth wife, Leslie \"Tessa\" Busby).\n\nIn 1955, he and his second wife, Kleo Apostolides, received a visit from the FBI, which they believed to be the result of Kleo's socialist views and left-wing activities. The couple briefly befriended one of the FBI agents.\n\nHe was physically abusive with his third wife, Anne Williams Rubinstein; after one argument in 1963, he attempted to push her off a cliff in a car, then later claimed she was trying to kill him, and convinced a psychiatrist to commit her involuntarily. After filing for divorce in 1964, he moved to Oakland to live with a fan, Grania Davis. Shortly after, he attempted suicide by driving off the road while she was a passenger.\n\nDick tried to stay out of the political scene because of high societal turmoil from the Vietnam War; however, he did show some anti-Vietnam War and anti-governmental sentiments. In 1968, he joined the \"Writers and Editors War Tax Protest\", an anti-war pledge to pay no U.S. federal income tax, which resulted in the confiscation of his car by the IRS.\n\nOn February 17, 1982, after completing an interview, Dick contacted his therapist, complaining of failing eyesight, and was advised to go to a hospital immediately, but did not. The following day, he was found unconscious on the floor of his Santa Ana, California home, having suffered a stroke. On February 25, 1982, Dick suffered another stroke in the hospital, which led to brain death. Five days later, on March 2, 1982, he was disconnected from life support and died. After his death, Dick's father, Joseph, took his son's ashes to Riverside Cemetery in Fort Morgan, Colorado, (section K, block 1, lot 56), where they were buried next to his twin sister Jane, who died in infancy. Her tombstone had been inscribed with both of their names at the time of her death, 53 years earlier.\n\nDick's stories typically focus on the fragile nature of what is real and the construction of personal identity. His stories often become surreal fantasies, as the main characters slowly discover that their everyday world is actually an illusion assembled by powerful external entities, such as the suspended animation in \"Ubik\", vast political conspiracies or the vicissitudes of an unreliable narrator. \"All of his work starts with the basic assumption that there cannot be one, single, objective reality\", writes science fiction author Charles Platt. \"Everything is a matter of perception. The ground is liable to shift under your feet. A protagonist may find himself living out another person's dream, or he may enter a drug-induced state that actually makes better sense than the real world, or he may cross into a different universe completely.\"\n\nAlternate universes and simulacra are common plot devices, with fictional worlds inhabited by common, working people, rather than galactic elites. \"There are no heroes in Dick's books\", Ursula K. Le Guin wrote, \"but there are heroics. One is reminded of Dickens: what counts is the honesty, constancy, kindness and patience of ordinary people.\" Dick made no secret that much of his thinking and work was heavily influenced by the writings of Carl Jung. The Jungian constructs and models that most concerned Dick seem to be the archetypes of the collective unconscious, group projection/hallucination, synchronicities, and personality theory. Many of Dick's protagonists overtly analyze reality and their perceptions in Jungian terms (see \"Lies Inc.\"). Dick's self-named \"Exegesis\" also contained many notes on Jung in relation to theology and mysticism.\n\nDick identified one major theme of his work as the question, \"What constitutes the authentic human being?\" In works such as \"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?\", beings can appear totally human in every respect while lacking soul or compassion, while completely alien beings such as Glimmung in \"Galactic Pot-Healer\" may be more humane and complex than their human peers.\n\nMental illness was a constant interest of Dick's, and themes of mental illness permeate his work. The character Jack Bohlen in the 1964 novel \"Martian Time-Slip\" is an \"ex-schizophrenic\". The novel \"Clans of the Alphane Moon\" centers on an entire society made up of descendants of lunatic asylum inmates. In 1965, he wrote the essay titled \"Schizophrenia and the Book of Changes\".\n\nDrug use (including religious, recreational, and abuse) was also a theme in many of Dick's works, such as \"A Scanner Darkly\" and \"The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch\". Dick himself was a drug user for much of his life. According to a 1975 interview in \"Rolling Stone\", Dick wrote all of his books published before 1970 while on amphetamines. \"\"A Scanner Darkly\" (1977) was the first complete novel I had written without speed\", said Dick in the interview. He also experimented briefly with psychedelics, but wrote \"The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch\", which \"Rolling Stone\" dubs \"the classic LSD novel of all time\", before he had ever tried them. Despite his heavy amphetamine use, however, Dick later said that doctors told him the amphetamines never actually affected him, that his liver had processed them before they reached his brain.\n\nSumming up all these themes in \"Understanding Philip K. Dick\", Eric Carl Link discussed eight themes or 'ideas and motifs': Epistemology and the Nature of Reality, Know Thyself, The Android and the Human, Entropy and Pot Healing, The Theodicy Problem, Warfare and Power Politics, The Evolved Human, and 'Technology, Media, Drugs and Madness'.\n\nDick had two professional stories published under the pen names Richard Phillipps and Jack Dowland. \"Some Kinds of Life\" was published in October 1953 in \"Fantastic Universe\" under byline Richard Phillipps, apparently because the magazine had a policy against publishing multiple stories by the same author in the same issue; \"Planet for Transients\" was published in the same issue under his own name.\n\nThe short story \"Orpheus with Clay Feet\" was published under the pen name Jack Dowland. The protagonist desires to be the muse for fictional author Jack Dowland, considered the greatest science fiction author of the 20th century. In the story, Dowland publishes a short story titled \"Orpheus with Clay Feet\" under the pen name Philip K. Dick.\n\nThe surname Dowland refers to Renaissance composer John Dowland, who is featured in several works. The title \"Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said\" directly refers to Dowland's best-known composition, \"Flow My Tears\". In the novel \"The Divine Invasion\", the character Linda Fox, created specifically with Linda Ronstadt in mind, is an intergalactically famous singer whose entire body of work consists of recordings of John Dowland compositions.\n\n\"The Man in the High Castle\" (1962) is set in an alternate history in which the United States is ruled by the victorious Axis powers. It is the only Dick novel to win a Hugo Award. Most recently this has been adapted into a television series by Amazon Studios.\n\n\"The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch\" (1965) utilizes an array of science fiction concepts and features several layers of reality and unreality. It is also one of Dick's first works to explore religious themes. The novel takes place in the 21st century, when, under UN authority, mankind has colonized the Solar System's every habitable planet and moon. Life is physically daunting and psychologically monotonous for most colonists, so the UN must draft people to go to the colonies. Most entertain themselves using \"Perky Pat\" dolls and accessories manufactured by Earth-based \"P.P. Layouts\". The company also secretly creates \"Can-D\", an illegal but widely available hallucinogenic drug allowing the user to \"translate\" into Perky Pat (if the drug user is a woman) or Pat's boyfriend, Walt (if the drug user is a man). This recreational use of Can-D allows colonists to experience a few minutes of an idealized life on Earth by participating in a collective hallucination.\n\n\"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?\" (1968) is the story of a bounty hunter policing the local android population. It occurs on a dying, poisoned Earth de-populated of almost all animals and all \"successful\" humans; the only remaining inhabitants of the planet are people with no prospects off-world. The 1968 novel is the literary source of the film \"Blade Runner\" (1982). It is both a conflation and an intensification of the pivotally Dickian question: What is real, what is fake? What crucial factor defines humanity as distinctly \"alive\", versus those merely alive only in their outward appearance?\n\n\"Ubik\" (1969) employs extensive psychic telepathy and a suspended state after death in creating a state of eroding reality. A group of psychics is sent to investigate a rival organisation, but several of them are apparently killed by a saboteur's bomb. Much of the following novel flicks between different equally plausible realities; the \"real\" reality, a state of half-life and psychically manipulated realities. In 2005, \"Time\" magazine listed it among the \"All-TIME 100 Greatest Novels\" published since 1923.\n\n\"Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said\" (1974) concerns Jason Taverner, a television star living in a dystopian near-future police state. After being attacked by an angry ex-girlfriend, Taverner awakens in a dingy Los Angeles hotel room. He still has his money in his wallet, but his identification cards are missing. This is no minor inconvenience, as security checkpoints (manned by \"pols\" and \"nats\", the police and National Guard) are set up throughout the city to stop and arrest anyone without valid ID. Jason at first thinks that he was robbed, but soon discovers that his entire identity has been erased. There is no record of him in any official database, and even his closest associates do not recognize or remember him. For the first time in many years, Jason has no fame or reputation to rely on. He has only his innate charm and social graces to help him as he tries to find out what happened to his past while avoiding the attention of the pols. The novel was Dick's first published novel after years of silence, during which time his critical reputation had grown, and this novel was awarded the John W. Campbell Memorial Award for Best Science Fiction Novel. It is the only Philip K. Dick novel nominated for both a Hugo and a Nebula Award.\n\nIn an essay written two years before his death, Dick described how he learned from his Episcopal priest that an important scene in \"Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said\" – involving its other main character, the eponymous Police General Felix Buckman, was very similar to a scene in \"Acts of the Apostles\", a book of the New Testament. Film director Richard Linklater discusses this novel in his film \"Waking Life\", which begins with a scene reminiscent of another Dick novel, \"Time Out of Joint\".\n\n\"A Scanner Darkly\" (1977) is a bleak mixture of science fiction and police procedural novels; in its story, an undercover narcotics police detective begins to lose touch with reality after falling victim to the same permanently mind-altering drug, Substance D, he was enlisted to help fight. Substance D is instantly addictive, beginning with a pleasant euphoria which is quickly replaced with increasing confusion, hallucinations and eventually total psychosis. In this novel, as with all Dick novels, there is an underlying thread of paranoia and dissociation with multiple realities perceived simultaneously. It was adapted to film by Richard Linklater.\n\n\"The Philip K. Dick Reader\" is an introduction to the variety of Dick's short fiction.\n\n\"VALIS\" (1980) is perhaps Dick's most postmodern and autobiographical novel, examining his own unexplained experiences. It may also be his most academically studied work, and was adapted as an opera by Tod Machover. Later works like the VALIS trilogy were heavily autobiographical, many with \"two-three-seventy-four\" (2-3-74) references and influences. The word VALIS is the acronym for \"Vast Active Living Intelligence System\". Later, Dick theorized that VALIS was both a \"reality generator\" and a means of extraterrestrial communication. A fourth VALIS manuscript, \"Radio Free Albemuth\", although composed in 1976, was posthumously published in 1985. This work is described by the publisher (Arbor House) as \"an introduction and key to his magnificent VALIS trilogy\".\n\nRegardless of the feeling that he was somehow experiencing a divine communication, Dick was never fully able to rationalize the events. For the rest of his life, he struggled to comprehend what was occurring, questioning his own sanity and perception of reality. He transcribed what thoughts he could into an eight-thousand-page, one-million-word journal dubbed the \"Exegesis\". From 1974 until his death in 1982, Dick spent many nights writing in this journal. A recurring theme in \"Exegesis\" is Dick's hypothesis that history had been stopped in the first century AD, and that \"the Empire never ended\". He saw Rome as the pinnacle of materialism and despotism, which, after forcing the Gnostics underground, had kept the population of Earth enslaved to worldly possessions. Dick believed that VALIS had communicated with him, and anonymously others, to induce the impeachment of U.S. President Richard Nixon, whom Dick believed to be the current Emperor of Rome incarnate.\n\nIn a 1968 essay titled \"Self Portrait\", collected in the 1995 book \"The Shifting Realities of Philip K. Dick\", Dick reflects on his work and lists which books he feels \"might escape World War Three\": \"Eye in the Sky\", \"The Man in the High Castle\", \"Martian Time-Slip\", \"Dr. Bloodmoney, or How We Got Along After the Bomb\", \"The Zap Gun\", \"The Penultimate Truth\", \"The Simulacra\", \"The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch\" (which he refers to as \"the most vital of them all\"), \"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?\", and \"Ubik\". In a 1976 interview, Dick cited \"A Scanner Darkly\" as his best work, feeling that he \"had finally written a true masterpiece, after 25 years of writing\".\n\nIn the 1973 science fiction short story \"The pre-persons\" he criticizes american pro-abortion law.\n\nSeveral of Dick's stories have been made into films. Dick himself wrote a screenplay for an intended film adaptation of \"Ubik\" in 1974, but the film was never made. Many film adaptations have not used Dick's original titles. When asked why this was, Dick's ex-wife Tessa said, \"Actually, the books rarely carry Phil's original titles, as the editors usually wrote new titles after reading his manuscripts. Phil often commented that he couldn't write good titles. If he could, he would have been an advertising writer instead of a novelist.\" Films based on Dick's writing had accumulated a total revenue of over US $1 billion by 2009.\n\nFuture films based on Dick's writing include an animated adaptation of \"The King of the Elves\" from Walt Disney Animation Studios, which was set to be released in the spring of 2016 but is currently still in preproduction; and a film adaptation of \"Ubik\" which, according to Dick's daughter, Isa Dick Hackett, is in advanced negotiation. Ubik was set to be made into a film by Michel Gondry. In 2014, however, Gondry told French outlet Telerama (via Jeux Actu), that he was no longer working on the project.\n\nThe \"Terminator\" series prominently features the theme of humanoid assassination machines first portrayed in \"Second Variety\". The Halcyon Company, known for developing the \"Terminator\" franchise, acquired right of first refusal to film adaptations of the works of Philip K. Dick in 2007. In May 2009, they announced plans for an adaptation of \"Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said\".\n\nIt was reported in 2010 that Ridley Scott would produce an adaptation of \"The Man in the High Castle\" for the BBC, in the form of a mini-series. A pilot episode was released on Amazon Prime in January 2015 and Season 1 was fully released in ten episodes of about 60 minutes each on November 20, 2015. Premiering in January 2015, the pilot was Amazon's \"most-watched since the original series development program began.\" The next month Amazon ordered episodes to fill out a ten-episode season, which was released in November, to positive reviews. A second season of ten episodes premiered in December 2016, with a third season announced a few weeks later to be released in 2018.\n\nIn late 2015, Fox aired \"Minority Report\", a television series sequel adaptation to the 2002 film of the same name based on Dick's 1956 short story \"The Minority Report\". The show was cancelled after one 10 episode season.\n\nIn May 2016, it was announced that a 10-part anthology series was in the works. Titled \"Philip K. Dick's Electric Dreams\", the series will be distributed by Sony Pictures Television and premiered on Channel 4 in the United Kingdom and Amazon Video in the United States. It was written by executive producers Ronald D. Moore and Michael Dinner, with executive input from Dick's daughter Isa Dick Hackett, and stars Bryan Cranston, also an executive producer.\n\nFour of Dick's works have been adapted for the stage.\n\nOne was the opera \"VALIS\", composed and with libretto by Tod Machover, which premiered at the Pompidou Center in Paris on December 1, 1987, with a French libretto. It was subsequently revised and readapted into English, and was recorded and released on CD (Bridge Records BCD9007) in 1988.\n\nAnother was \"Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said\", adapted by Linda Hartinian and produced by the New York-based avant-garde company Mabou Mines. It premiered in Boston at the Boston Shakespeare Theatre (June 18–30, 1985) and was subsequently staged in New York and Chicago. Productions of \"Flow My Tears, the Policeman Said\" were also staged by the Evidence Room in Los Angeles in 1999 and by the Fifth Column Theatre Company at the Oval House Theatre in London in the same year.\n\nA play based on \"Radio Free Albemuth\" also had a brief run in the 1980s.\n\nIn November 2010, a production of \"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?\", adapted by Edward Einhorn, premiered at the 3LD Art and Technology Center in Manhattan.\n\nA radio drama adaptation of Dick's short story \"Mr. Spaceship\" was aired by the Finnish Broadcasting Company (Yleisradio) in 1996 under the name \"Menolippu Paratiisiin\". Radio dramatizations of Dick's short stories \"Colony\" and \"The Defenders\" were aired by NBC in 1956 as part of the series \"X Minus One\".\n\nIn January 2006, a \"The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch\" (English for \"Trzy stygmaty Palmera Eldritcha\") theatre adaptation premiered in Stary Teatr in Cracov, with an extensive use of lights and laser choreography.\n\nIn June 2014 the BBC broadcast a two part adaptation of 'Do Androids Dream Of Electric Sheep?' on Radio 4, starring James Purefoy as Rick Deckard.\n\nMarvel Comics adapted Dick's short story \"The Electric Ant\" as a limited series which was released in 2009. The comic was produced by writer David Mack (\"Daredevil\") and artist Pascal Alixe (\"Ultimate X-Men\"), with covers provided by artist Paul Pope. \"The Electric Ant\" had earlier been loosely adapted by Frank Miller and Geof Darrow in their 3-issue mini-series \"Hard Boiled\" published by Dark Horse Comics in 1990-1992.\n\nIn 2009, BOOM! Studios started publishing a 24-issue miniseries comic book adaptation of \"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?\" \"Blade Runner\", the 1982 film adapted from \"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?\", had previously been adapted to comics as \"\".\n\nIn 2011, Dynamite Entertainment published a 4-issue miniseries \"Total Recall,\" a sequel to the 1990 film \"Total Recall\", inspired by Philip K. Dick's short story \"We Can Remember It for You Wholesale\". In 1990, DC Comics published the official adaptation of the original film as a \"DC Movie Special: Total Recall\".\n\nIn response to a 1975 request from the National Library for the Blind for permission to make use of \"The Man in the High Castle\", Dick responded, \"I also grant you a general permission to transcribe any of my former, present or future work, so indeed you can add my name to your 'general permission' list.\" Some of his books and stories are available in braille and other specialized formats through the NLS.\nAs of December 2012, thirteen of Philip K. Dick's early works in the public domain in the United States are available in ebook form from Project Gutenberg. As of April 4, 2012, Wikisource has one of Philip K. Dick's early works in the public domain in the United States available in ebook form which is not from Project Gutenberg.\n\nLawrence Sutin's 1989 biography of Dick, \"Divine Invasions: A Life of Philip K. Dick\", is considered the standard biographical treatment of Dick's life.\n\nIn 1993, French writer Emmanuel Carrère published \"Je suis vivant et vous êtes morts\" which was first translated and published in English in 2004 as \"I Am Alive and You Are Dead: A Journey Into the Mind of Philip K. Dick\", which the author describes in his preface in this way:The book you hold in your hands is a very peculiar book. I have tried to depict the life of Philip K. Dick from the inside, in other words, with the same freedom and empathy – indeed with the same truth – with which he depicted his own characters. Critics of the book have complained about the lack of fact checking, sourcing, notes and index, \"the usual evidence of deep research that gives a biography the solid stamp of authority.\" It can be considered a non-fiction novel about his life.\n\nDick has influenced many writers, including Jonathan Lethem and Ursula K. Le Guin. The prominent literary critic Fredric Jameson proclaimed Dick the \"Shakespeare of Science Fiction\", and praised his work as \"one of the most powerful expressions of the society of spectacle and pseudo-event\". The author Roberto Bolaño also praised Dick, describing him as \"Thoreau plus the death of the American dream\". Dick has also influenced filmmakers, his work being compared to films such as the Wachowskis' \"The Matrix\", David Cronenberg's \"Videodrome\", \"eXistenZ\", and \"Spider\", Spike Jonze's \"Being John Malkovich\", \"Adaptation\", Michel Gondry's \"Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind\", Alex Proyas's \"Dark City\", Peter Weir's \"The Truman Show\", Andrew Niccol's \"Gattaca\", \"In Time\", Terry Gilliam's \"12 Monkeys\", Alejandro Amenábar's \"Open Your Eyes\", David Fincher's \"Fight Club\", Cameron Crowe's \"Vanilla Sky\", Darren Aronofsky's \"Pi\", Richard Kelly's \"Donnie Darko\" and \"Southland Tales\", Rian Johnson's \"Looper\", Duncan Jones' \"Source Code\", and Christopher Nolan's \"Memento\" and \"Inception\".\n\nThe Philip K. Dick Society was an organization dedicated to promoting the literary works of Dick and was led by Dick's longtime friend and music journalist Paul Williams. Williams also served as Dick's literary executor for several years after Dick's death and wrote one of the first biographies of Dick, entitled \"Only Apparently Real: The World of Philip K. Dick\".\n\nThe Philip K. Dick estate owns and operates the production company Electric Shepherd Productions, which has produced the films \"Adjustment Bureau\" (2011) and the upcoming Walt Disney Company film \"King of the Elves\", the TV series \"The Man in the High Castle\" and also a Marvel Comics 5-issue adaptation of \"Electric Ant\".\n\nDick was recreated by his fans in the form of a simulacrum or remote-controlled android designed in his likeness. Such simulacra had been themes of many of Dick's works. The Philip K. Dick simulacrum was included on a discussion panel in a San Diego Comic Con presentation about the film adaptation of the novel, \"A Scanner Darkly\". In February 2006, an America West Airlines employee misplaced the android's head, and it has not yet been found. In January 2011, it was announced that Hanson Robotics had built a replacement.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPostmodernists such as Jean Baudrillard, Fredric Jameson, Laurence Rickels and Slavoj Žižek have commented on Dick's writing's foreshadowing of postmodernity. Jean Baudrillard offers this interpretation:\n\nIt is hyperreal. It is a universe of simulation, which is something altogether different. And this is so not because Dick speaks specifically of simulacra. SF has always done so, but it has always played upon the double, on artificial replication or imaginary duplication, whereas here the double has disappeared. There is no more double; one is always already in the other world, an other world which is not another, without mirrors or projection or utopias as means for reflection. The simulation is impassable, unsurpassable, checkmated, without exteriority. We can no longer move \"through the mirror\" to the other side, as we could during the golden age of transcendence.\nFor his anti-government skepticism, Philip K. Dick was afforded minor mention in \"Mythmakers and Lawbreakers\", a collection of interviews about fiction by anarchist authors. Noting his early authorship of \"The Last of the Masters\", an anarchist-themed novelette, author Margaret Killjoy expressed that while Dick never fully sided with anarchism, his opposition to government centralization and organized religion has influenced anarchist interpretations of gnosticism.\n\nThe Science Fiction Hall of Fame inducted Dick in 2005.\n\nDuring his lifetime he received numerous annual literary awards and nominations for particular works.\n\nThe Philip K. Dick Award is a science fiction award that annually recognizes the previous year's best SF paperback original published in the U.S. It is conferred at Norwescon, sponsored by the Philadelphia Science Fiction Society, and since 2005 supported by the Philip K. Dick Trust. Winning works are identified on their covers as \"Best Original SF Paperback\". It is currently administered by David G. Hartwell and Gordon Van Gelder.\n\nThe award was inaugurated in 1983, the year after Dick's death. It was founded by Thomas Disch with assistance from David G. Hartwell, Paul S. Williams, and Charles N. Brown. Past administrators include Algis J. Budrys and David Alexander Smith.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9576022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9576022", "title": "Pneumatic (Gnosticism)", "text": "Pneumatic (Gnosticism)\n\nThe pneumatics (\"spiritual\", from Greek , \"spirit\") were, in Gnosticism, the highest order of humans, the other two orders being psychics and hylics (\"matter\"). A pneumatic saw itself as escaping the doom of the material world via the transcendent knowledge of Sophia's Divine Spark within the soul.\n\nIn the New Testament a contrast is made between the \"psychikoi\" and the \"pneumatikoi\", in the former of whom the mere animal soul predominates, the latter exhibiting the working of a higher spiritual nature (; ; compare also ). In the Valentinian system this contrast is sharpened, and is made to depend on an original difference of nature between the two classes of men, a mythical theory being devised which professed to account for the origin of the different elements in men's nature; the psychic element being something higher and better than the mere material element, but immeasurably inferior to the pneumatic. It may well be believed that in the language of the Gnostic sects, the \"pneumatici\" are \"spiritual men who have attained to the perfect knowledge of God, and been initiated into these mysteries by Achamoth\" herself (), ordinary Christians being branded as \"psychici.\"\n\nSuch was also the use made of the latter word by Tertullian, who in his latest works, written after his Montanism had involved him in complete separation from the church, habitually uses the word \"Psychici\" to designate those from whom he had separated. \n\nIn the academic study of religion and mysticism more generally, pneumatic has been used as a classification term to define similar trends in wider contexts. For example, Joseph G. Weiss describes \"A Circle of Pneumatics in Pre-Hasidism\", in the context of Jewish mysticism. Here the pneumatic group have minor prophetic powers (\"Ruah Ha-qodesh\" in Jewish parlance), such as revealing the sins of their fellows. However they decide to renounce use of this, probably in response to communal suspicion in the wake of the Sabbatean Kabbalistic heresy. The Baal Shem Tov, founder of Hasidism, seeks recognition in the group, but is initially hindered by his lower status as a Baal Shem exorcist.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1189170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1189170", "title": "Potter Box", "text": "Potter Box\n\nThe Potter Box is a model for making ethical decisions, developed by Ralph B. Potter, Jr., professor of social ethics emeritus at Harvard Divinity School. It is commonly used by communication ethics scholars. According to this model, moral thinking should be a systematic process and how we come to decisions must be based in some reasoning.\n\nThe Potter Box is an ethical framework used to make decisions by utilizing four categories which Potter identifies as universal to all ethical dilemmas. Potter was a theologian when he developed this moral reasoning framework. The Potter Box uses four dimensions of moral analysis to help in situations where ethical dilemmas occur: Facts, Values, Principles, and Loyalties as described below. \nThe Potter Box consists of a few simple steps, which can be completed in any order. You may also move between the steps several times before an adequate decision is made. The steps are numbered for simplicity's sake, and it may help you to organize the steps into quadrants (Cliff Christens came up with this idea).\n\nThe definition stage of the Potter Box concerns the facts of the issue at hand. Here is where the analyst should set out all facts without making judgments or hiding any facts. \nExample: Using a photograph of a car wreck to promote safe driving, making it visible to the target viewers.\n\nAt this stage the analyst should state and compare the merits of different values to acknowledge the influences on decision-making. By referring to the specific concerns of the individuals involved, it allows the analyst to identify differences in perspectives.\nWe may judge something according to aesthetic values(harmonious, pleasing), professional values(innovative, prompt), logical values(consistent, competent), sociocultural values(thrift, hard work), and moral values(honesty, nonviolence).\n\nExample (continued)- Will the shock value of the images encourage safe driving habits? Will the images stir up potentially disturbing memories for certain people?\n\nPrinciples are ethical philosophies or modes of ethical reasoning that may be applicable to the situation. By considering the values stated above from several ethical philosophies, the decision-maker is better equipped to understand the situation. The following are some of the ethical philosophies that may be utilized under this segment of Potter's Box:\n\n\nThese help link concrete options to overarching principles, getting us to think about our own basic values.\n\nLoyalties concern who the decision-maker has allegiances or loyalties to. For example, in journalism, the first allegiance is always to the public. Other allegiances a journalist might have would be to his or her employer, industry organizations or co-workers. Are we more concerned about being true to our own values or about the effectiveness of the campaign? Is the \"greater good\" more important than the \"golden mean\"?\n\nTo understand the Potter Box method, you must first understand types of Values categorized that influence Ethical behavior:\n\nProfessional.\nProximity, Firstness, Impact/ magnitude, Recency, Conflict, Human Interest, Entertainment, Novelty, Toughness, Thoroughness, Immediacy, Independence, No prior restraint, Public’s right to know\n\nMoral Values.\nTruth-telling, Humanness, Justice/fairness, Freedom, Independence, Stewardship, Honesty, Nonviolence, Commitment, Self-control\n\nAesthetic.\nHarmonious, Pleasing, Imaginative\n\nLogical.\nConsistent, Competent, Knowledgeable\n\nSocio-cultural.\nThrift, Hard work, Energy, Restraint\n\nThe Potter Box focuses on moral issues as opposed to pragmatic or legal ones, such as how to avoid getting sued or fired. With regard to ethics, however, it can be used to reflect on any situation that requires moral decision-making. Its four steps, at least initially, should be followed in order.\n\nThe Potter Box does not offer a single, clear-cut solution to ethical dilemmas. Indeed, two different people analyzing the same issue with the Potter Box could arrive at two very different conclusions. Moreover, the same person analyzing the same issue could come to different decisions when using the Box at two different times. Nevertheless, the Potter Box can help you think through what to do. It offers a process to help you weigh your options in a methodical manner.\n\nIn addition, the name \"Potter Box\" may indicate that this process is very rigid, but in fact it is fluid, and you may have to go back and forth among the steps before you can reach a conclusion that satisfies you. This process also becomes easier and quicker with practice. Over time, it can become second nature.\n\nStraubhaar, LaRose, Davenport. (2014) \"Media Now: Understanding Media, Culture, and Technology\", 8th ed., pp. 479–500.\n"}
{"id": "2033502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2033502", "title": "Robert Merrihew Adams", "text": "Robert Merrihew Adams\n\nRobert Merrihew Adams (born September 8, 1937) is an American analytic philosopher of metaphysics, religion and morality.\n\nAdams was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He taught for many years at the University of California, Los Angeles, before moving to Yale University in the early 1990s as the Clark Professor of Moral Philosophy and Metaphysics. As chairman, he helped revive the philosophy department after its near-collapse due to personal and scholarly conflicts between analytical and Continental philosophers. Adams retired from Yale in 2004 and taught part-time at the University of Oxford in England, where he was a senior research fellow of Mansfield College. In 2009 he became a Distinguished Research Professor of Philosophy at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.\n\nAdams's late wife, Marilyn McCord Adams, was also a philosopher, working on medieval philosophy and the philosophy of religion and was the Regius Professor of Divinity at Christ Church, Oxford. In 2013 both became visiting research professors at Rutgers University, in conjunction with the founding of the Rutgers Center for the Philosophy of Religion.\n\nAs a historical scholar, Adams has published on the work of the philosophers Søren Kierkegaard and Leibniz. His work in the philosophy of religion includes influential essays on the problem of evil and the relation between theism and ethics. In metaphysics, Adams defends actualism in metaphysics of modality and Platonism about nature of so-called possible worlds. He is a past president of the Society of Christian Philosophers. In 1999, he delivered the Gifford Lectures on \"God and Being.\" He was elected a Fellow of the British Academy in 2006 and was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1991.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24952090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24952090", "title": "Ruth Lapide", "text": "Ruth Lapide\n\nRuth Lapide (née Ruth Rosenblatt; born 1929 in Burghaslach), Franconia, Germany, is a Jewish theologian and historian who is foremost among German language scholars that endeavor to facilitate and improve understanding between Jews and Christians, to a degree also with Muslims. An important part of her work deals with biblical mistranslations and with the Jewish roots of Christianity. She worked in this endeavor with her husband Pinchas Lapide until his death in 1997, after which she began a writing career while teaching at the Evangelischen Fachhochschule in Nuremberg. She is widely known from numerous television interviews about biblical topics broadcast by Bavarian Broadcasting and Bibel TV.\n\nRuth Lapide studied political science, history and Judaic studies at Hebrew University in Jerusalem. She specialized in the evolution of Christianity as a Jewish-rooted religion and became full professor. Since her return to Germany, she has been putting much effort into helping to facilitate dialog and reconciliation between Jews and Christians, between Germany and the State of Israel. In this she and her Austrian-born husband worked as partners until his death.\n\nRuth Lapide has been living in Frankfurt am Main since the mid-1970s.\n\nIn 2000, Ruth Lapide was awarded Germany’s most prestigious medal, the Bundesverdienstkreuz, and on April 11, 2003, she received the \"Hessischen Verdienstorden am Bande\", the most prestigious medal of the German state of Hesse. In 2007 she received an honorary professorate and in 2008 received an honorary doctorate at the Protestant Augustana-Hochschule in Neuendettelsau, Central Franconia, Bavaria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "306046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=306046", "title": "Schizoanalysis", "text": "Schizoanalysis\n\nSchizoanalysis (; \"schizo-\" from Greek σχίζειν \"skhizein\", meaning \"to split\") is a concept created by philosopher Gilles Deleuze and psychoanalyst Félix Guattari and first expounded in their book \"Anti-Oedipus\" (1972). Its formulation was continued in their follow-up work, \"A Thousand Plateaus\". Schizoanalysis acquires many different definitions during the course of its development in their collaborative work and individually in the work of Guattari.\n\nIn \"Chaosmosis\", Guattari explains that \"rather than moving in the direction of reductionist modifications which simplify the complex\", schizoanalysis \"will work towards its complexification, its processual enrichment, towards the consistency of its virtual lines of bifurcation and differentiation, in short towards its ontological heterogeneity\".\n\nSchizoanalysis was developed over a long period of time as a response to the perceived shortcomings in the basic premises of psychoanalytic practice. Guattari was directly confronted with such problems in the work of Sigmund Freud—namely, the use of the Oedipus complex as a starting point for the analysis, and the authoritarian role of the psychoanalyst in relationship to the patient. Guattari was interested in a practice that could derive from given systems of enunciation and preexisting subjective structures new \"assemblages [\"agencements\"] of enunciation\" capable of forging new coordinates of analysis and to bring into existence unforeseen propositions and representations.\n\nBy the time of \"Five Propositions on Psychoanalysis\" (1973), Deleuze said \"we no longer want to talk about schizoanalysis, because that would amount to protecting a particular type of escape, schizophrenic escape\".\n\nSchizoanalysis can be represented by four circular components that bud and form rhizomes:\n\n\nSchizoanalysis also proposes a novel take on sexuality inasmuch as it concerns an analysis of the \"\"n\" sexes\" of a subject.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43091021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43091021", "title": "Sigmund Kvaløy Setreng", "text": "Sigmund Kvaløy Setreng\n\nSigmund Kvaløy Setreng (20 September 1934 – 27 May 2014) was a Norwegian philosopher, illustrator, mountain climber, environmental activist and politician. He was born in Trondheim. Among his publications are \"Musikk-kritikk og kommunikasjon\" from 1966, \"Økokrise, natur og menneske\" from 1976, and \"Mangfold og tid. Pyramide-mennesket ved skillevegen: System, frihet eller kaos?\" from 2001.\n"}
{"id": "9052330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9052330", "title": "Significs", "text": "Significs\n\nSignifics () is a linguistic and philosophical term introduced by Victoria, Lady Welby in the 1890s. It was later adopted by the Dutch Significs Group (or movement) of thinkers around Frederik van Eeden, which included L. E. J. Brouwer, founder of intuitionistic logic, and further developed by Gerrit Mannoury and others.\n\nSignifics, intended to be a theory of signs, was developed by Lady Welby in quite close connection with the work of Charles Sanders Peirce, her correspondent. There is no scholarly consensus on its precise placing as an influence on later developments: on the ground now occupied by semantics, semiotics and semiology, it is closer to semiology than to the two others. While significs is a possible precursor of later semiology, it is still a matter of debate what the extent of that connection amounts to.\n\nAt a personal level Lady Welby did have some effect, particularly on C. K. Ogden. A mediating figure, she has not until quite recently been given great attention.\n\nThe following sections are taken directly from the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica article written by Lady Welby.\n\nThe term \"Significs\" may be defined as the science of meaning or the study of significance, provided sufficient recognition is given to its practical aspect as a method of mind, one which is involved in all forms of mental activity, including that of logic. In Baldwin's \"Dictionary of Philosophy and Psychology\" (1901–1905) the following definition is given:\n\n1. Significs implies a careful distinction between\nIt will be seen that the reference of the first is mainly verbal (or rather sensal), of the second volitional, and of the third moral (e.g. we speak of some event ' the significance of which cannot be overrated, and it would be impossible in such a case to substitute the ' sense ' or the ' meaning ' of such event, without serious loss).\nSignifics treats of the relation of the sign in the widest sense to each of these.\n\n2. A proposed method of mental training aiming at the concentration of intellectual activities on that which is implicitly assumed to constitute the primary and ultimate value of every form of study, i.e. what is at present indifferently called its meaning or sense, its import or significance... Significs as a science would centralise and co-ordinate, interpret, inter-relate and concentrate the efforts to bring out meanings in every form, and in so doing to classify the various applications of the signifying property clearly and distinctly.\" Since this dictionary was published, however, the subject has undergone further consideration and some development, which necessitate modifications in the definition given. It is clear that stress needs to be laid upon the application of the principles and method involved, not merely, though notably, to language, but to all other types of human function. There is need to insist on the rectification of mental attitude and increase of interpretative power which must follow on the adoption of the significal view-point and method, throughout all stages and forms of mental training, and in the demands and contingencies of life.\n\nIn so far as it deals with linguistic forms, Significs includes \"Semantics,\" a branch of study which was formally introduced and expounded in 1897 by Michel Breal, the distinguished French philologist, in his Essai de semantique. In 1900 this book was translated into English by Mrs Henry Cust, the daughter of Lady Welby, with a preface by Professor Postgate. M. Breal gives no more precise definition than the following: \"Extraire de la linguistique ce qui en ressort comme aliment pour la réflexion et - je ne crains pas de l'ajouter - comme règle pour notre propre langage, puisque chacun de nous collabore pour sa part a l'évolution de la parole humaine, voila ce qui mérite d'être mis en lumière, voila ce qui j'ai essayé de faire en ce volume.\" In the Dictionary of Philosophy and Psychology Semantics is defined as \"the doctrine of historical word-meanings; the systematic discussion of the history and development of changes in the meanings of words.\" It may thus be regarded as a reform and extension of the etymological method, which applies to contemporary as well as to traditional or historical derivation. As human interests grow in constantly specialized directions, the vocabulary thus enriched is unthinkingly borrowed and reborrowed on many sides, at first in definite quotation, but soon in unconscious or deliberate adoption. Semantics may thus, for present purposes, be described as the application of Significs within strictly philological limits; but it does not include the study and classification of the \"Meaning\" terms themselves, nor the attainment of a clear recognition of their radical importance as rendering, well or ill, the expressive value not only of sound and script but also of all fact or occurrence which demands and may arouse profitable attention.\n\nThe first duty of the Significian is, therefore, to deprecate the demand for mere linguistic reform, which is indispensable on its own proper ground, but cannot be considered as the satisfaction of a radical need such as that now suggested. To be content with mere reform of articulate expression would be fatal to the prospect of a significantly adequate language; one characterized by a development only to be compared to that of the life and mind of which it is or should be naturally the delicate, flexible, fitting, creative, as also controlling and ordering, Expression.\n\nThe classified use of the terms of expression-value suggests three main levels or classes of that value - those of Sense, Meaning and Significance.\n\nThese are not, of course, the only significal terms in common use, though perhaps sense and significance are on the whole the most consistently employed. We have also signification, purport, import, bearing, reference, indication, application, implication, denotation and connotation, the weight, the drift, the tenour, the lie, the trend, the range, the tendency, of given statements. We say that this fact suggests, that one portends, another carries, involves or entails certain consequences, or justifies given inferences. And finally we have the value of all forms of expression; that which makes worthwhile any assertion or proposition, concept, doctrine or theory; the definition of scientific fact, the use of symbolic method, the construction of mathematical formulae, the playing of an actor's part, or even art itself, like literature in all its forms.\n\nThe distinctive instead of haphazard use, then, of these and like terms would soon, both as clearing and enriching it, tell for good on our thinking. If we considered that any one of them were senseless, unmeaning, insignificant, we should at once in ordinary usage and in education disavow and disallow it. As it is, accepted idiom may unconsciously either illuminate or contradict experience. We speak, for instance, of going through trouble or trial; we never speak of going through well-being. That illuminates. But also we speak of the Inner or Internal as alternative to the spatial - reducing the spatial to the External. The very note of the value to the philosopher of the \"Inner\" as opposed to the \"Outer\" experience is that a certain example or analogue of enclosed space - a specified inside - is thus not measurable. That obscures. Such a usage, in fact, implies that, within enclosing limits, space sometimes ceases to exist. Comment is surely needless.\n\nThe most urgent reference and the most promising field for Significs lie in the direction of education. The normal child, with his inborn exploring, significating and comparing tendencies is so far the natural Significian. At once to enrich and simplify language would for him be a fascinating endeavour. Even his crudeness would often be suggestive. It is for his elders to supply the lacking criticism out of the storehouse of racial experience, acquired knowledge and ordered economy of means; and to educate him also by showing the dangers and drawbacks of uncontrolled linguistic, as other, adventure. Now the evidence that this last has virtually been hitherto left undone and even reversed, is found on careful examination to be overwhelming.' Unhappily what we have so far called education has, anyhow for centuries past, ignored - indeed in most cases even balked - the instinct to scrutinise and appraise the value of all that exists or happens within our ken, actual or possible, and fittingly to express this.\n\nThe Dutch significs thinkers, besides van Eeden and Brouwer, included David van Dantzig, Herman Gorter, Jacob Israël de Haan, Henri Borel, Gerrit Mannoury and Evert W. Beth, a group with varied professional affiliations.\n\nThe Signifische Kring was founded in 1922 by Brouwer, Mannoury, van Eeden and Jacques van Ginneken. Its later Dutch institutional history included the advent of biologists Hermann Jacques Jordan and Christiaan Pieter Raven. Internationally there were set up the \"International Group for the Study of Significs\", followed by the \"International Society for Significs\".\n\n"}
{"id": "33406879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33406879", "title": "Stephen Davies (philosopher)", "text": "Stephen Davies (philosopher)\n\nStephen Davies is a Distinguished Professor of philosophy at the University of Auckland, New Zealand. He mainly writes on aesthetics, particularly the philosophy of music but also works on political philosophy. He is a past president of the American Society for Aesthetics (2007–2008), and the New Zealand division of the Australasian Association of Philosophy (2001).\n\nOne of Davies's first journal publications was 'The Expression of Emotion in Music', published in \"Mind\" in 1980 (Vol. 89, pp. 67–86). In this article Davies first outlined his theory that music is expressive of emotions in virtue of resembling the way that emotions appear. This theory is similar to one outlined by Peter Kivy in his book \"The Corded Shell\", also published in 1980. However, Davies developed his view independently as an undergraduate in the 1970s, and the theory was part of his PhD thesis awarded in 1976 from the University of London. In contrast to Kivy, Davies also places a greater emphasis on the resemblance between music and physical gesture, where Kivy tends to emphasize the resemblance to the expressive vocalisations. Davies was inspired when seeing an advertisement for Hush Puppies shoes, with the thought that we recognize sadness in the face of Basset hounds, despite knowing that they do not feel sad.\n\nDavies also maintains a research interest in ethnomusicology, which he studied as an undergraduate, particularly the aesthetics of Balinese music.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47212002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47212002", "title": "Taigu school", "text": "Taigu school\n\nThe Taigu school (太谷学派 \"Tàigǔ xuépài\"), also Great Perfection (大成教 \"Dàchéng jiào\") or Yellow Cliff teaching (黄崖教 \"Huángyá jiào\"), is a mystical folk religious sect of Confucianism spread especially in Jiangsu, Anhui and Shandong. It was founded by Zhou Xingyuan, a man with shamanic skills entitled \"Taigu\" (太谷 \"Great Valley\") by followers.\n\nThe purpose of the school is to help those who practice it to develop a clear and enlightened state of mind, in which man apprehends his true nature and recovers original simplicity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11584006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11584006", "title": "Thomas of York (Franciscan)", "text": "Thomas of York (Franciscan)\n\nThomas of York (b. c. 1220; d. before 1269) was an English Franciscan theologian and scholastic philosopher of the thirteenth century. He was associated with the Oxford Franciscan school.\n\nHe entered the Order of Friars Minor in 1242, and studied at the University of Oxford. He later was the leader of the Franciscan establishment at Cambridge.\n\n"}
{"id": "23965763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23965763", "title": "Time flies like an arrow; fruit flies like a banana", "text": "Time flies like an arrow; fruit flies like a banana\n\n\"Time flies like an arrow; fruit flies like a banana\" is a humorous saying that is used in linguistics as an example of a garden path sentence or syntactic ambiguity, and in word play as an example of punning, double entendre, and antanaclasis.\n\n\"Time flies like an arrow\" is an English phrase often used to illustrate syntactic ambiguity. \nIn this connection the sentence is often seen as part of the elaboration: \"Time flies like an arrow; fruit flies like a banana\".\n\nModern English speakers understand the sentence to unambiguously mean \"As a generalisation, time passes in the same way that an arrow generally flies (i.e. quickly)\". But the sentence is syntactically ambiguous and alternatively could be interpreted as meaning, for example:\n\nIn addition, the sentence contains semantic ambiguity. For instance, the noun phrase \"Time flies\" could refer to all time flies or particular time flies, and \"an arrow\" to all arrows, a particular arrow, or different arrows for different flies; compare \"Fruit flies like a banana\", \"Fruit flies ate a banana\", \"Fruit flies live on a banana\". Likewise, the noun \"Time\" could refer to the magazine.\n\nThe expression is based on the proverb: \"Time flies\", a translation of the Latin \"Tempus fugit\", where \"fly\" is to be taken in the sense of \"flee\".\n\nAn early example of a pun with the expression \"Time flies\" may be found in a 1930 issue of \"Boys' Life\":\n\n\nAnthony Oettinger gives \"fruit flies like bananas\" as contrasted with \"time flies like an arrow\" as an example of the difficulty of handling ambiguous syntactic structures as early as 1963, although his formal publications with Susumu Kuno do not use that example. This is quoted by later authors.\n\nA fuller exposition with the banana example appeared in a 1966 article by Oettinger.\n\nThis article prompted the following response in a letter:\n\nTime Flies Like an Arrow\n\nAn Ode to Oettinger\n<poem>\nNow, thin fruit flies like thunderstorms,\nAnd thin farm boys like farm girls narrow;\nAnd tax firm men like fat tax forms –\nBut time flies like an arrow.\n\nWhen tax forms tax all firm men's souls,\nWhile farm girls slim their boyfriends' flanks;\nThat's when the murd'rous thunder rolls –\nAnd thins the fruit flies ranks.\n\nLike tossed bananas in the skies,\nThe thin fruit flies like common yarrow;\nThen's the time to time the time flies –\nLike the time flies like an arrow.\nEdison B. Schroeder 1966</poem>\nThe verse is popular as a specimen of didactic humor trading on syntactic ambiguity. Like the poem \"The Chaos\", by Gerard Nolst Trenité, its themes are popular among practitioners and students in fields such as natural language processing and linguistics.\n\nThe saying is sometimes attributed to Groucho Marx, but the earliest attribution to him dates only to 1982, and there is no reason to believe he actually said it.\n\nThe saying is used as a linguistic example of antanaclasis, the stylistic trope of repeating a single word, but with a different meaning each time.\n\nIt is also used as an example of punning. The wordplay is based on the distinct meanings of the two occurrences of the word \"flies\" (the verb \"travel through the air\" and the noun for certain insects), and of the word \"like\" (the preposition \"similarly to\" and the verb \"enjoy\"). For example, the second clause can be read as \"fruit travels through the air similar to a banana\" or as \"certain insects enjoy a banana\".\n\nThis is an example of a garden-path sentence, a phrase that the reader or listener normally begins to parse according to one grammatical structure, and is then forced to back up and reparse when the sentence ends in an unexpected way.\n\n"}
{"id": "3183949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3183949", "title": "Trāṭaka", "text": "Trāṭaka\n\nTrāṭaka (Sanskrit n. त्राटक \"trāṭaka\", \"tratak\", \"trataka\": \"to look, or to gaze\") is a method of meditation that involves staring at a single point such as a small object, black dot or candle flame. It is said to bring energy to the \"third eye\" (\"ājňā chakra\") and promote various psychic abilities. \n\nBy fixing the gaze the restless mind too comes to a halt. It is said also that control of the ciliary (blink) reflex stimulates the pineal gland, which Kundalini Yoga identify with the third eye. Trāṭaka is said to enhance the ability to concentrate. It increases the power of memory and brings the mind to a state of awareness, attention and focus.\n\nThe practitioner may fix attention on a symbol or yantra, such as the Om symbol, a black dot, the image of some deity or guru, a flame, a mirror or any point, and stare at it. A candle should be three to four feet (1 metre plus) away, the flame level with the eyes. Relax but keep the spine erect and remain wakeful and vigilant. The eyes begin to water. Some authorities recommend that the eyes should then be closed and the yogi concentrate on the after image, while others persevere with staring for 30–40 minutes.\n\n\nThe Bihar School of Yoga, in India has published several books on meditation that give detailed instructions for practising trataka. \"Dharana Darshan\" by Swami Niranjanananda Saraswati has an entire chapter devoted to the practice.\n"}
{"id": "1516700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1516700", "title": "Yuanwu Keqin", "text": "Yuanwu Keqin\n\nYuanwu Keqin (; Japanese: Engo Kokugon) (1063–1135) was a Han Chinese Chan monk who compiled the \"Blue Cliff Record\".\n\nYuanwu Keqin was born into the Le family of Pengzhou, Sichuan, in 1063. His family was well educated in Confucianism, a sign of acquaintance with the Chinese civil service. Nevertheless, Yuanwu Keqin choose a Buddhist career and entered Miaoji Monastery (,a monastery in Pengzhou. He ended his formal studies under Wuzu Fayan (1047-1104) when he was in his forties. Yuanwu Keqin was closely involved in the literati circles.\n\nYuanwu Keqin belonged to the Linji school. He was the teacher of Dahui Zonggao, who introduced the Hua Tou practice.\n\nStarting from the year 1112 on, Yuan-wu started to lecture on the \"One Hundred Old Cases and Verses [to the Cases]\" compiled by Xuedou Zhongxian (980–1052). These lectures resulted in the \"Blue Cliff Record\".\n\nThe \"Blue Cliff Record\" gives clear instructions about the correct approach to kōan. Yuanwu went as far as to annotate the poems line by line to make clear the correct reading of Xuedou's appended verses, which are complex, because of the rich use of symbolism and the allusions to Chinese secular literature and to Chan history.\n\nAccording to the Chán-tradition, the Blue Cliff Record gained such a popularity, that Dahui Zonggao burned all the copies he could lay hands on, and the wooden printing blocks.\n\n\n\n"}
