{"id": "13004473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13004473", "title": "2007–08 Ethiopian crackdown in Ogaden", "text": "2007–08 Ethiopian crackdown in Ogaden\n\nThe 2007–2008 Ethiopian crackdown in Ogaden was a military campaign by the Ethiopian Army against the Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF). The crackdown against the guerrillas began after they killed 74 people in an attack on a Chinese-run oil exploration field in April 2007.\n\nThe main military operations were centered on the towns of Degehabur, Kebri Dahar, Werder and Shilavo in Ogaden, which are in the Ethiopian Somali Region. The area is home to the Ogaden clan, seen as the bedrock of support of the ONLF.\n\nAccording to Human Rights Watch (HRW), various human rights abuses were committed by the Ethiopian military.\n\nEthiopia's eastern Somali Region, whose major part constitutes the Ogaden, is the site of a long-running, low-intensity armed conflict between the Ethiopian Government and the ONLF. Formed in 1984, many of the ONLF's members had supported Somalia in the Ogaden War with Ethiopia over the region in the 1970s. The group's aims have varied over time from independence to joining a \"greater Somalia\" or obtaining greater autonomy within Ethiopia.\n\nOn October 21, 2007, the ONLF stated its forces had killed 250 soldiers during the battle near the town of Werder. There was no confirmation of the attack either from the Ethiopian Government or from independent sources. On November 4, the ONLF claimed that up to 270 Ethiopian soldiers had been killed in clashes between October 26 and November 1. Once again, the claim could not be independently verified.\n\nOn November 16, 2007, the Ethiopian Army claimed to have killed 100 ONLF fighters during the past month, and to have captured hundreds more. On November 18, 2007, the ONLF reported that the Ethiopian Air Force had carpet bombed villages and nomadic settlements the Ogaden region, killing up to a dozen civilians. An ONLF spokesman also said that some ONLF fighters were hurt in the air bombardments, but the air force targeted civilian settlements and livestock. The Ethiopian Government denied these reports on November 20. On November 28, 2007, Ogaden residents described continued abuses on the part of the military, but also said that aid delivery had improved. UN humanitarian chief John Holmes said the humanitarian situation in Ogaden as \"potentially serious\" but not yet catastrophic. Prime Minister Meles Zenawi said that human rights abuses and a humanitarian crisis \"didn't exist. Doesn't exist. Will not exist.\"\n\nIn January 2009, the foreign relations chief Mohammed Sirad was killed by Ethiopian security forces at the town of Danan as he met with other ONLF members. Reportedly this has led to the ONLF splitting into two factions, with one group allied to current ONLF chairman Mohammed Omar Osman, and the other led by senior leader Abdiwali Hussein Gas, who appointed Salahudin Ma'ow as the new ONLF chairman and declared that he will \"bring Mohammed Omar Osman to court\".\n\nEthiopia's military campaign has triggered a serious humanitarian crisis, according to several humanitarian organisations.\n\nAccording to Human Rights Watch, civilians in the Somali region were trapped between the warring parties. HRW learned that dozens of civilians have been killed in what appeared to have been a deliberate effort to mete out collective punishment against a civilian population suspected of sympathizing with the rebels.\n\nRefugees fleeing the crackdown told stories of widespread violence, with entire villages being destroyed along with arbitrary theft, rape and murder by Ethiopian soldiers. In October 2007, \"The Independent\" reported that the situation in Ogaden had begun to mirror the Darfur conflict, with refugees stating that government troops had burned villages and raped and killed civilians. Earlier in the month, Human Rights Watch had told the United States House Foreign Affairs Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health that \"the Ogaden is not Darfur. But the situation in Ogaden follows a frighteningly familiar pattern\", while recognizing that \"Ethiopia has legitimate and serious domestic and regional security concerns\". Also, the United Nations advocacy director for Human Rights Watch has called Ogaden a \"mini-Darfur\". Human Rights Watch says it has documented dozens of cases of severe abuse by Ethiopian troops in the Ogaden, including gang rapes, burned villages and what it calls \"demonstration killings,\" like hanging and beheading of populace, meant to terrorize the population.\n\nSeveral Ethiopian refugees and international organizations reported in December 2007 that the Ethiopian military, strained by its deployment in Somalia, was forcing local civilians (including government employees and health workers) to fight alongside troops against the ONLF rebels. According to the same reports, these under-equipped and poorly trained militias suffered heavy casualties in several battles. One Western aid official said soldiers barged into hospitals to draft recruits and threatened to jail health workers if they did not comply. In other cases, lists of names were posted on public bulletin boards, ordering government employees to report for duty, according to a current member of the regional parliament and two Ethiopian administrators who have fled the country. Many of those who refused were fired, jailed and in some cases tortured, the administrators and parliament member said.\n\nEthiopian officials denied the charges, claiming that local tribes were willingly forming defense groups against the ONLF. Several United Nations officials and Western diplomats said they were discussing the militia program in private meetings, but contended they could not comment publicly for fear of provoking the ire of the Ethiopian government, resulting in a possible suspension of humanitarian efforts in the region.\n\nLarge segments of the region were inaccessible to outside agencies as Ethiopian troops attempted to suppress the rebel insurgency.\n\nOn November 6, the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) announced opening an aid facility in the Ogaden region. The U.N. has also called for an independent investigation into allegations of human rights abuses by Ethiopian forces in the region. Government troops are fighting ONLF rebels who want more autonomy for their region. Médecins Sans Frontières is among the 12 organizations that have received permission to work in Ogaden, while the ICRC is still barred from working in the region.\n\nExperts say the ONLF was active in the Somali capital Mogadishu during 2006 while that city was controlled by the Islamic Courts Union, and that some Islamist fighters may have fled to Ogaden after they were ousted from Mogadishu.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15022410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15022410", "title": "Africa Beyond", "text": "Africa Beyond\n\nAfrica Beyond is a project celebrating African arts and culture in the UK, supported by Arts Council England, the British Broadcasting Corporation, the British Museum, the Southbank Centre, iniva (Institute for International Visual Arts) and other partners.\n\nAfrica Beyond was founded in March 2006, based in London. It was created as a legacy of Africa 05, a major celebration of African arts, held throughout 2005. It organises artist residencies linking Africa and the UK, runs public events such as the Word from Africa festival (first hosted at the British Museum in May 2007), and works with arts venues to improve their links with African audiences and artists.\n\nThe BBC hosted the Africa Beyond website, which features articles on African music, film, theatre, dance, literature and visual arts, with a special focus on artists and stories relevant to audiences in the UK. The website is no longer updated.\n\n"}
{"id": "36087819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36087819", "title": "Akete", "text": "Akete\n\nAkete (or kete) are drums commonly used in Nyabinghi music, and \"kete\" is sometimes used to refer to one of these drums, the \"repeater\".\n\nAkete drums consist of a larger bass (or \"baandu\") drum, a \"funde\" (or \"fundeh\"), and a \"repeater\". The funde and repeater are of similar size, but the funde has a slack drum head while the repeater has a tighter head, giving a higher note. The drums are double-membraned, with heads are generally made of goat skin.\n\nThe bass drum is typically held in the lap and beaten with a padded stick (a tennis ball is often used), while the funde and repeater are held on the floor between the knees and played with the hands, the funde with the palms and the repeater with the fingertips.\n\nOriginally from the Asante of modern-day Ghana (which is also the name of the dance which the drums are used for) via the trans-Atlantic slave trade and then in Burru music, which was played in Jamaica as far back as the early 20th century. They became commonly used in Kingston ghettos in the mid 20th century, after being introduced by migrants from rural Jamaica.\n\nFamous akete players include Count Ossie and Ras Michael.\n"}
{"id": "65759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65759", "title": "Al-Aqsa Mosque", "text": "Al-Aqsa Mosque\n\nAl-Aqsa Mosque (, , \"the Farthest Mosque\"), located in the Old City of Jerusalem, is the third holiest site in Islam. The mosque was built on top of the Temple Mount, known as Haram esh-Sharif in Islam. Muslims believe that Muhammad was transported from the Sacred Mosque in Mecca to al-Aqsa during the Night Journey. Islamic tradition holds that Muhammad led prayers towards this site until the 17th month after his migration from Mecca to Medina, when Allāh directed him to turn towards the Kaaba in Mecca.\n\nThe covered mosque building was originally a small prayer house erected by Umar, the second caliph of the Rashidun Caliphate, but was rebuilt and expanded by the Umayyad caliph Abd al-Malik and finished by his son al-Walid in 705 CE. The mosque was completely destroyed by an earthquake in 746 and rebuilt by the Abbasid caliph al-Mansur in 754. It was rebuilt again in 780. Another earthquake destroyed most of al-Aqsa in 1033, but two years later the Fatimid caliph Ali az-Zahir built another mosque whose outline is preserved in the current structure. The mosaics on the arch at the qibla end of the nave also go back to his time.\n\nDuring the periodic renovations undertaken, the various ruling dynasties of the Islamic Caliphate constructed additions to the mosque and its precincts, such as its dome, facade, its \"minbar\", minarets and the interior structure. When the Crusaders captured Jerusalem in 1099, they used the mosque as a palace and the Dome of the Rock as a church, but its function as a mosque was restored after its recapture by Saladin in 1187. More renovations, repairs and additions were undertaken in the later centuries by the Ayyubids, Mamluks, Ottomans, the Supreme Muslim Council, and Jordan. Today, the Old City is under Israeli control, but the mosque remains under the administration of the Jordanian/Palestinian-led Islamic \"Waqf\".\n\nThe mosque is located in close proximity to historical sites significant in Judaism and Christianity, most notably the site of the Second Temple, the holiest site in Judaism. As a result the area is highly sensitive, and has been a flashpoint in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict.\n\n\"Al-Masjid al-Aqsa\" translates from Arabic into English as \"the farthest mosque\". The name refers to a chapter of the Quran called \"Al-Isrā’\" (), \"The Night Journey\"), in which it is said that Muhammad travelled from Mecca to \"the farthest mosque\", and then up to Heaven on a heavenly creature called \"al-Burāq ash-Sharīf\" ().\n\nAlthough in its narrowest sense, the Al-Aqsa indicates the silver-domed mosque on the southern side of the Temple Mount plaza, the term \"Al-Aqsa\" has often been used to refer to the entire area, including the mosque, along with the Dome of the Rock, the Gates of the Temple Mount, and the four minarets. \"al-Masjid al-Aqsa\" referred not only to the mosque, but to the entire sacred sanctuary, while \"Al-Jâmi‘ al-Aqṣá\" () referred to the specific site of the mosque. During the period of Ottoman rule (c. early 16th century to 1917) the wider compound began to also be referred to as \"al-Ḥaram ash-Sharīf\" (, the Noble Sanctuary),\n\nAl-Aqsa Mosque is also referred to as Al-Qibli Mosque on account of a particular building within it, the Al-Qibli Chapel (\"al-Jami' al-Aqsa\" or \"al-Qibli\", or \"Masjid al-Jumah\" or \"al-Mughata\").\n\nThe mosque is located on the Temple Mount, referred to by Muslims today as the \"Haram al-Sharif\" (\"Noble Sanctuary\"), an enclosure expanded by King Herod the Great beginning in 20 BCE. The original sanctuary is believed to date to the time of Abraham in Islam.\n\nThe mosque resides on an artificial platform that is supported by arches constructed by Herod's engineers to overcome the difficult topographic conditions resulting from the southward expansion of the enclosure into the Tyropoeon and Kidron valleys. At the time of the Second Temple, the present site of the mosque was occupied by the Royal Stoa, a basilica running the southern wall of the enclosure. The Royal Stoa was destroyed along with the Temple during the sacking of Jerusalem by the Romans in 70 CE.\n\nIt was once thought that Emperor Justinian's \"Nea Ekklesia of the Theotokos\", or the New Church of the God-Bearer, dedicated to the God-bearing Virgin Mary, consecrated in 543 and commonly known as the Nea Church, was situated where al-Aqsa Mosque was later constructed. However, remains identified as those of the Nea Church were uncovered in the south part of the Jewish Quarter in 1973.\n\nAnalysis of the wooden beams and panels removed from the mosque during renovations in the 1930s shows they are made from Cedar of Lebanon and cypress. Radiocarbon dating indicates a large range of ages, some as old as 9th-century BCE, showing that some of the wood had previously been used in older buildings.\n\nIn 2012, it was reported that Robert Hamilton, an archaeologist who worked on the Temple Mount after the 1927 Jericho earthquake, had discovered remains under al-Aqsa mosque that he did not publish in his book on the excavations. These included a mosaic like those used in Byzantine churches, and a Jewish mikveh from the Second Temple period.\n\nThe current construction of the al-Aqsa Mosque is dated to the early Umayyad period of rule in Palestine. Architectural historian K. A. C. Creswell, referring to a testimony by Arculf, a Gallic monk, during his pilgrimage to Palestine in 679–82, notes the possibility that the second caliph of the Rashidun Caliphate, Umar ibn al-Khattab, erected a primitive quadrangular building for a capacity of 3,000 worshipers somewhere on the Haram ash-Sharif. However, Arculf visited Palestine during the reign of Mu'awiyah I, and it is possible that Mu'awiyah ordered the construction, not Umar. This latter claim is explicitly supported by the early Muslim scholar al-Muthahhar bin Tahir.\n\nAccording to several Muslim scholars, including Mujir ad-Din, al-Suyuti, and al-Muqaddasi, the mosque was reconstructed and expanded by the caliph Abd al-Malik in 690 along with the Dome of the Rock. Guy le Strange claims that Abd al-Malik used materials from the destroyed Church of Our Lady to build the mosque and points to possible evidence that substructures on the southeast corners of the mosque are remains of the church. In planning his magnificent project on the Temple\nMount, which in effect would turn the entire complex into the Haram al-Sharif (\"the Noble Sanctuary\"), Abd al-Malik wanted to replace the slipshod structure described by Arculf with a more sheltered structure enclosing the \"qibla\" (\"direction\"), a necessary element in his grand scheme. However, the entire Haram al-Sharif was meant to represent a mosque. How much he modified the aspect of the earlier building is unknown, but the length of the new building is indicated by the existence of traces of a bridge leading from the Umayyad palace just south of the western part of the complex. The bridge would have spanned the street running just outside the southern wall of the Haram al-Sharif to give direct access to the mosque. Direct access from palace to mosque was a well-known feature in the Umayyad period, as evidenced at various early sites. Abd al-Malik shifted the central axis of the mosque some westward, in accord with his overall plan for the Haram al-Sharif. The earlier axis is represented in the structure by the niche still known as the \"mihrab of 'Umar.\" In placing emphasis on the Dome of the Rock, Abd al-Malik had his architects align his new al-Aqsa Mosque according to the position of the Rock, thus shifting the main north–south axis of the Noble Sanctuary, a line running through the Dome of the Chain and the Mihrab of Umar.\n\nIn contrast, Creswell, while referring to the Aphrodito Papyri, claims that Abd al-Malik's son, al-Walid I, reconstructed the Aqsa Mosque over a period of six months to a year, using workers from Damascus. Most scholars agree that the mosque's reconstruction was started by Abd al-Malik, but that al-Walid oversaw its completion. In 713–14, a series of earthquakes ravaged Jerusalem, destroying the eastern section of the mosque, which was subsequently rebuilt during al-Walid's rule. In order to finance its reconstruction, al-Walid had gold from the dome of the Rock minted to use as money to purchase the material. The Umayyad-built al-Aqsa Mosque most likely measured 112 x 39 meters.\n\nIn 746, the al-Aqsa Mosque was damaged in an earthquake, four years before as-Saffah overthrew the Umayyads and established the Abbasid Caliphate. The second Abbasid caliph Abu Ja'far al-Mansur declared his intent to repair the mosque in 753, and he had the gold and silver plaques that covered the gates of the mosque removed and turned into dinars and dirhams to finance the reconstruction which ended in 771. A second earthquake damaged most of al-Mansur's repairs, excluding those made in the southern portion in 774. In 780, His successor Muhammad al-Mahdi had it rebuilt, but curtailed its length and increased its breadth. Al-Mahdi's renovation is the first known to have written records describing it. In 985, Jerusalem-born Arab geographer al-Muqaddasi recorded that the renovated mosque had \"fifteen naves and fifteen gates\".\nIn 1033, there was another earthquake, severely damaging the mosque. The Fatimid caliph Ali az-Zahir rebuilt and completely renovated the mosque between 1034 and 1036. The number of naves was drastically reduced from 15 to seven. Az-Zahir built the four arcades of the central hall and aisle, which presently serve as the foundation of the mosque. The central aisle was double the width of the other aisles and had a large gable roof upon which the dome—made of wood—was constructed. Persian geographer, Nasir Khusraw describes the Aqsa Mosque during a visit in 1047:\n\nThe Haram Area (Noble Sanctuary) lies in the eastern part of the city; and through the bazaar of this (quarter) you enter the Area by a great and beautiful gateway (Dargah)... After passing this gateway, you have on the right two great colonnades (Riwaq), each of which has nine-and-twenty marble pillars, whose capitals and bases are of colored marbles, and the joints are set in lead. Above the pillars rise arches, that are constructed, of masonry, without mortar or cement, and each arch is constructed of no more than five or six blocks of stone. These colonnades lead down to near the Maqsurah (enclosure).\n\nJerusalem was captured by the Crusaders in 1099, during the First Crusade. They named the mosque \"Solomon's Temple\", distinguishing it from the Dome of the Rock, which they named \"Templum Domini\" (Temple of God). While the Dome of the Rock was turned into a Christian church under the care of the Augustinians, the al-Aqsa Mosque was used as a royal palace and also as a stable for horses. In 1119, it was transformed into the headquarters of the Templar Knights. During this period, the mosque underwent some structural changes, including the expansion of its northern porch, and the addition of an apse and a dividing wall. A new cloister and church were also built at the site, along with various other structures. The Templars constructed vaulted western and eastern annexes to the building; the western currently serves as the women's mosque and the eastern as the Islamic Museum.\n\nAfter the Ayyubids under the leadership of Saladin reconquered Jerusalem following the siege of 1187, several repairs and renovations were undertaken at al-Aqsa Mosque. In order to prepare the mosque for Friday prayers, within a week of his capture of Jerusalem Saladin had the toilets and grain stores installed by the Crusaders at al-Aqsa removed, the floors covered with precious carpets, and its interior scented with rosewater and incense. Saladin's predecessor—the Zengid sultan Nur al-Din—had commissioned the construction of a new \"minbar\" or \"pulpit\" made of ivory and wood in 1168–69, but it was completed after his death; Nur ad-Din's \"minbar\" was added to the mosque in November 1187 by Saladin. The Ayyubid sultan of Damascus, al-Mu'azzam, built the northern porch of the mosque with three gates in 1218. In 1345, the Mamluks under al-Kamil Shaban added two naves and two gates to the mosque's eastern side.\n\nAfter the Ottomans assumed power in 1517, they did not undertake any major renovations or repairs to the mosque itself, but they did to the Noble Sanctuary as a whole. This included the building of the Fountain of Qasim Pasha (1527), the restoration of the Pool of Raranj, and the building of three free-standing domes—the most notable being the Dome of the Prophet built in 1538. All construction was ordered by the Ottoman governors of Jerusalem and not the sultans themselves. The sultans did make additions to existing minarets, however. In 1816, the mosque was restored by Governor Sulayman Pasha al-Adil after having been in a dilapidated state.\n\nThe first renovation in the 20th century occurred in 1922, when the Supreme Muslim Council under Amin al-Husayni (the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem) commissioned Turkish architect Ahmet Kemalettin Bey to restore al-Aqsa Mosque and the monuments in its precincts. The council also commissioned British architects, Egyptian engineering experts and local officials to contribute to and oversee the repairs and additions which were carried out in 1924–25 by Kemalettin. The renovations included reinforcing the mosque's ancient Umayyad foundations, rectifying the interior columns, replacing the beams, erecting a scaffolding, conserving the arches and drum of the main dome's interior, rebuilding the southern wall, and replacing timber in the central nave with a slab of concrete. The renovations also revealed Fatimid-era mosaics and inscriptions on the interior arches that had been covered with plasterwork. The arches were decorated with gold and green-tinted gypsum and their timber tie beams were replaced with brass. A quarter of the stained glass windows also were carefully renewed so as to preserve their original Abbasid and Fatimid designs. Severe damage was caused by the 1837 and 1927 earthquakes, but the mosque was repaired in 1938 and 1942.\n\nOn July 20, 1951, King Abdullah I was shot three times by a Palestinian gunman as he entered the mosque, killing him. His grandson Prince Hussein, was at his side and was also hit, though a medal he was wearing on his chest deflected the bullet.\nOn 21 August 1969, a fire was started by a visitor from Australia named Denis Michael Rohan. Rohan was a member of an evangelical Christian sect known as the Worldwide Church of God. He hoped that by burning down al-Aqsa Mosque he would hasten the Second Coming of Jesus, making way for the rebuilding of the Jewish Temple on the Temple Mount. Rohan was subsequently hospitalized in a mental institution. In response to the incident, a summit of Islamic countries was held in Rabat that same year, hosted by Faisal of Saudi Arabia, the late king of Saudi Arabia. The al-Aqsa fire is regarded as one of the catalysts for the formation of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC, now the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation) in 1972.\n\nIn the 1980s, Ben Shoshan and Yehuda Etzion, both members of the Gush Emunim Underground, plotted to blow up the al-Aqsa mosque and the Dome of the Rock. Etzion believed that blowing up the two mosques would cause a spiritual awakening in Israel, and would solve all the problems of the Jewish people. They also hoped the Third Temple of Jerusalem would be built on the location of the mosque. On 15 January 1988, during the First Intifada, Israeli troops fired rubber bullets and tear gas at protesters outside the mosque, wounding 40 worshipers. On 8 October 1990, 22 Palestinians were killed and over 100 others injured by Israeli Border Police during protests that were triggered by the announcement of the Temple Mount Faithful, a group of religious Jews, that they were going to lay the cornerstone of the Third Temple.\n\nOn 28 September 2000, then-opposition leader of Israel Ariel Sharon and members of the Likud Party, along with 1,000 armed guards, visited the al-Aqsa compound; a large group of Palestinians went to protest the visit. After Sharon and the Likud Party members left, a demonstration erupted and Palestinians on the grounds of the Haram al-Sharif began throwing stones and other projectiles at Israeli riot police. Police fired tear gas and rubber bullets at the crowd, injuring 24 people. The visit sparked a five-year uprising by the Palestinians, commonly referred to as the al-Aqsa Intifada, though some commentators, citing subsequent speeches by PA officials, particularly Imad Falouji and Arafat himself, claim that the Intifada had been planned months in advance, as early as July upon Yasser Arafat's return from Camp David talks. On 29 September, the Israeli government deployed 2,000 riot police to the mosque. When a group of Palestinians left the mosque after Friday prayers (\"Jumu'ah,\") they hurled stones at the police. The police then stormed the mosque compound, firing both live ammunition and rubber bullets at the group of Palestinians, killing four and wounding about 200.\n\nOn 5 November 2014, Israeli police entered Al-Aqsa for the first time since capturing Jerusalem in 1967, said Sheikh Azzam Al-Khatib, director of the Islamic Waqf. Previous media reports of 'storming Al-Aqsa' referred to the Haram al-Sharif compound rather than the Al-Aqsa mosque itself.\n\nThe rectangular al-Aqsa Mosque and its precincts are , although the mosque itself is about and could hold up to 5,000 worshipers. It is long, wide. Unlike the Dome of the Rock, which reflects classical Byzantine architecture, the Al-Aqsa Mosque is characteristic of early Islamic architecture.\n\nNothing remains of the original dome built by Abd al-Malik. The present-day dome was built by az-Zahir and consists of wood plated with lead enamelwork. In 1969, the dome was reconstructed in concrete and covered with anodized aluminum, instead of the original ribbed lead enamel work sheeting. In 1983, the aluminum outer covering was replaced with lead to match the original design by az-Zahir.\n\nBeneath the dome is the Al-Qibli Chapel ( \"al-Musalla al-Qibli\"); also known as al-Jami' al-Qibli , a Muslim prayer hall, located in the southern part of the mosque. It was built by the Rashidun caliph Umar ibn Al-Khattab in 637 CE.\n\nAl-Aqsa's dome is one of the few domes to be built in front of the \"mihrab\" during the Umayyad and Abbasid periods, the others being the Umayyad Mosque in Damascus (715) and the Great Mosque of Sousse (850). The interior of the dome is painted with 14th-century-era decorations. During the 1969 burning, the paintings were assumed to be irreparably lost, but were completely reconstructed using the \"trateggio\" technique, a method that uses fine vertical lines to distinguish reconstructed areas from original ones.\n\nThe facade of the mosque was built in 1065 CE on the instructions of the Fatimid caliph al-Mustansir Billah. It was crowned with a balustrade consisting of arcades and small columns. The Crusaders damaged the facade, but it was restored and renovated by the Ayyubids. One addition was the covering of the facade with tiles. The second-hand material of the facade's arches includes sculpted, ornamental material taken from Crusader structures in Jerusalem. The facade consists of fourteen stone arches, most of which are of a Romanesque style. The outer arches added by the Mamluks follow the same general design. The entrance to the mosque is through the facade's central arch.\n\nThe porch is located at the top of the facade. The central bays of the porch were built by the Knights Templar during the First Crusade, but Saladin's nephew al-Mu'azzam Isa ordered the construction of the porch itself in 1217.\n\nThe al-Aqsa Mosque has seven aisles of hypostyle naves with several additional small halls to the west and east of the southern section of the building. There are 121 stained glass windows in the mosque from the Abbasid and Fatimid eras. About a fourth of them were restored in 1924.\nThe mosque's interior is supported by 45 columns, 33 of which are white marble and 12 of stone. The column rows of the central aisles are heavy and stunted. The remaining four rows are better proportioned. The capitals of the columns are of four different kinds: those in the central aisle are heavy and primitively designed, while those under the dome are of the Corinthian order, and made from Italian white marble. The capitals in the eastern aisle are of a heavy basket-shaped design and those east and west of the dome are also basket-shaped, but smaller and better proportioned. The columns and piers are connected by an architectural rave, which consists of beams of roughly squared timber enclosed in a wooden casing.\n\nA great portion of the mosque is covered with whitewash, but the drum of the dome and the walls immediately beneath it are decorated with mosaics and marble. Some paintings by an Italian artist were introduced when repairs were undertaken at the mosque after an earthquake ravaged the mosque in 1927. The ceiling of the mosque was painted with funding by King Farouk of Egypt.\n\nThe \"minbar\" (\"pulpit\") of the mosque was built by a craftsman named Akhtarini from Aleppo on the orders of the Zengid sultan Nur ad-Din. It was intended to be a gift for the mosque when Nur ad-Din would capture Jerusalem from the Crusaders and took six years to build (1168–74). Nur ad-Din died and the Crusaders still controlled Jerusalem, but in 1187, Saladin captured the city and the \"minbar\" was installed. The structure was made of ivory and carefully crafted wood. Arabic calligraphy, geometrical and floral designs were inscribed in the woodwork. After its destruction by Rohan in 1969, it was replaced by a much simpler \"minbar\". In January 2007, Adnan al-Husayni—head of the Islamic \"waqf\" in charge of al-Aqsa—stated that a new \"minbar\" would be installed; it was installed in February 2007. The design of the new \"minbar\" was drawn by Jamil Badran based on an exact replica of the Saladin Minbar and was finished by Badran within a period of five years. The \"minbar\" itself was built in Jordan over a period of four years and the craftsmen used \"ancient woodworking methods, joining the pieces with pegs instead of nails, but employed computer images to design the pulpit [\"minbar\"].\"\n\nThe mosque's main ablution fountain, known as \"al-Kas\" (\"the Cup\"), is located north of the mosque between it and the Dome of the Rock. It is used by worshipers to perform \"wudu\", a ritual washing of the hands, arms, legs, feet, and face before entry into the mosque. It was first built in 709 by the Umayyads, but in 1327–28 Governor Tankiz enlarged it to accommodate more worshipers. Although originally supplied with water from Solomon's Pools near Bethlehem, it currently receives water from pipes connected to Jerusalem's water supply. In the 20th-century, al-Kas was provided taps and stone seating.\n\nThe Fountain of Qasim Pasha, built by the Ottomans in 1526 and located north of the mosque on the platform of the Dome of the Rock, was used by worshipers for ablution and for drinking until the 1940s. Today, it stands as a monumental structure.\n\nIn Islam, the term \"al-Aqsa Mosque\" refers to the entire Noble Sanctuary. The mosque is believed to be the second house of prayer constructed after the Masjid al-Haram in Mecca. Post-Rashidun-era Islamic scholars traditionally identified the mosque as the site referred to in the \"sura\" (Quranic chapter) al-Isra (\"the Night Journey\"). This specific verse in the Quran cemented the significant religious importance of al-Aqsa in Islam. The specific passage reads \"Praise be to Him who made His servant journey in the night from the sacred sanctuary to the remotest sanctuary.\" In early Islam the story of Muhammad's ascension from Al-Aqsa Mosque—'\"the farthest place of prayer\" (al masjid al aqsa) was understood as relating to the Jewish Temple in Jerusalem. There was a significant Muslims group disputed this connection, identifying \"the farthest place of prayer\" as a reference to a site in the heavens.\nAccording to the Quran and Islamic traditions, Al-Aqsa Mosque is the place from which Muhammad went on a night journey (\"al-isra\") during which he rode on Buraq, who took him from Mecca to al-Aqsa. Muhammad tethered Buraq to the Western Wall and prayed at al-Aqsa Mosque and after he finished his prayers, the angel Jibril (Gabriel) traveled with him to heaven, where he met several other prophets and led them in prayer.\n\nThe historical significance of the al-Aqsa Mosque in Islam is further emphasized by the fact that Muslims turned towards al-Aqsa when they prayed for a period of 16 or 17 months after migration to Medina in 624; it thus became the \"qibla\" (\"direction\") that Muslims faced for prayer. Muhammad later prayed towards the Kaaba in Mecca after receiving a revelation during a prayer session in the Masjid al-Qiblatayn. The \"qibla\" was relocated to the Kaaba where Muslims have been directed to pray ever since.\n\nThe altering of the \"qibla\" was precisely the reason the Rashidun caliph Umar, despite identifying the mosque which Muhammad used to ascend to Heaven upon his arrival at the Noble Sanctuary in 638, neither prayed facing it nor built any structure upon it. This was because the significance of that particular spot on the Noble Sanctuary was superseded in Islamic jurisprudence by the Kaaba in Mecca after the change of the \"qibla\" towards that site.\n\nAccording to early Quranic interpreters and what is generally accepted as Islamic tradition, in 638 CE Umar, upon entering a conquered Jerusalem, consulted with Ka'ab al-Ahbar—a Jewish convert to Islam who came with him from Medina—as to where the best spot would be to build a mosque. Al-Ahbar suggested to him that it should be behind the Rock \"... so that all of Jerusalem would be before you.\" Umar replied, \"You correspond to Judaism!\" Immediately after this conversation, Umar began to clean up the site—which was filled with trash and debris—with his cloak, and other Muslim followers imitated him until the site was clean. Umar then prayed at the spot where it was believed that Muhammad had prayed before his night journey, reciting the Quranic \"sura\" \"Sad\". Thus, according to this tradition, Umar thereby reconsecrated the site as a mosque.\n\nBecause of the holiness of Noble Sanctuary itself—being a place where David and Solomon had prayed—Umar constructed a small prayer house in the southern corner of its platform, taking care to avoid allowing the Rock to come between the mosque and the direction of Kaaba so that Muslims would face only Mecca when they prayed.\n\nJerusalem is recognized as a sacred site in Islam. Though the Quran does not mention Jerusalem by name, it has been understood by Islamic scholars since the earliest times that many passages in the Quran refer to Jerusalem. Jerusalem is also mentioned many times in the hadith. Some academics attribute the holiness of Jerusalem to the rise and expansion of a certain type of literary genre, known as \"al-Fadhail\" or history of cities. The Fadhail of Jerusalem inspired Muslims, especially during the Umayyad period, to embellish the sanctity of the city beyond its status in the holy texts. Others point to the political motives of the Umayyad dynasty which led to the sanctification of Jerusalem in Islam.\n\nLater medieval scripts, as well as modern-day political tracts, tend to classify al-Aqsa Mosque as the third holiest site in Islam. For example, Sahih al-Bukhari quotes Abu Darda as saying: \"the Prophet of God Muhammad said a prayer in the Sacred Mosque (in Mecca) is worth 100,000 prayers; a prayer in my mosque (in Medina) is worth 1,000 prayers; and a prayer in al-Aqsa Mosque is worth 500 prayers more than in any other mosque\". In addition, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation refers to the al-Aqsa Mosque as the third holiest site in Islam (and calls for Arab sovereignty over it).\n\nThe Waqf Ministry of Jordan held control of the al-Aqsa Mosque until the 1967 Six-Day War. After Israel's victory in that war, Israel transferred the control of the mosque and the northern Noble Sanctuary to the Islamic \"waqf\" trust, who are independent of the Israeli government. However, Israeli Security Forces are permitted to patrol and conduct searches within the perimeter of the mosque. After the 1969 arson attack, the \"waqf\" employed architects, technicians and craftsmen in a committee that carry out regular maintenance operations. The Islamic Movement in Israel and the \"waqf\" have attempted to increase Muslim control of the Temple Mount as a way of countering Israeli policies and the escalating presence of Israeli security forces around the site since the Second Intifada. Some activities included refurbishing abandoned structures and renovating.\n\nMuhammad Ahmad Hussein is the head imam and manager of the al-Aqsa Mosque and was assigned the role of Grand Mufti of Jerusalem in 2006 by Palestinian president Mahmoud Abbas. Ownership of the al-Aqsa Mosque is a contentious issue in the Israel-Palestinian conflict. Israel claims sovereignty over the mosque along with all of the Temple Mount (Noble Sanctuary), but Palestinians hold the custodianship of the site through the Islamic \"waqf\". During the negotiations at the 2000 Camp David Summit, Palestinians demanded complete ownership of the mosque and other Islamic holy sites in East Jerusalem.\n\nCurrent Imams:\n\nSheikh Abu Yusuf Sneia,\nSheikh Ali Al Abbasi,\nSheikh Sa'eed Qalqeeli,\nSheikh Walid\n\nMuslim residents of Israel and Palestinians living in East Jerusalem are normally allowed to enter the Temple Mount and pray at the al-Aqsa Mosque without restrictions. Due to security measures, the Israeli government occasionally prevents certain groups of Muslims from reaching al-Aqsa by blocking the entrances to the complex; the restrictions vary from time to time. At times restrictions have prevented all men under 50 and women under 45 from entering, but married men over 45 are allowed. Sometimes the restrictions are enforced on the occasion of Friday prayers, other times they are over an extended period of time. Restrictions are most severe for Gazans, followed by restrictions on those from West Bank. The Israeli government states that the restrictions are in place for security reasons.\n\nUntil 2000, non-Muslim visitors could enter the Al-Aqsa Mosque by getting a ticket from the Waqf. That procedure ended when the Second Intifada began. Fifteen years later, negotiation between Israel and Jordan might result in allowing visitors to enter once again.\n\nSeveral excavations outside the Temple Mount took place following the 1967 War. In 1970, Israeli authorities commenced intensive excavations outside the walls next to the mosque on the southern and western sides. Palestinians believed that tunnels were being dug under the Al-Aqsa Mosque in order to undermine its foundations, which was denied by Israelis, who claimed that the closest excavation to the mosque was some to its south. The Archaeological Department of the Israeli Ministry of Religious Affairs dug a tunnel near the western portion of the mosque in 1984. According to UNESCO's special envoy to Jerusalem Oleg Grabar, buildings and structures on the Temple Mount are deteriorating due mostly to disputes between the Israeli, Palestinian and Jordanian governments over who is actually responsible for the site.\n\nIn February 2007, the Department started to excavate a site for archaeological remains in a location where the government wanted to rebuild a collapsed pedestrian bridge leading to the Mughrabi Gate, the only entrance for non-Muslims into the Temple Mount complex. This site was away from the mosque. The excavations provoked anger throughout the Islamic world, and Israel was accused of trying to destroy the foundation of the mosque. Ismail Haniya—then Prime Minister of the Palestinian National Authority and Hamas leader—called on Palestinians to unite to protest the excavations, while Fatah said they would end their ceasefire with Israel. Israel denied all charges against them, calling them \"ludicrous\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37972233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37972233", "title": "Bently Spang", "text": "Bently Spang\n\nBently Spang (born 1960) is a Northern Cheyenne multidisciplinary artist, writer, and curator. His work has been exhibited widely in North America, South America, and Europe.\n\nSpang is an enrolled member of the Tsitsistas/Suhtai (Northern Cheyenne) Nation in southeastern Montana and was born at the Crow-Northern Cheyenne Indian Hospital on the Crow Reservation located in Crow Agency, Montana in 1960. Spang grew up both on and off the Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation, living in places such as Sitka, Alaska and Portland, Oregon . He graduated from Montana State University Billings and earned a Master of Fine Arts degree at the University of Wisconsin–Madison. He taught at the School of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston from 2007 to 2009 as a full-time Visiting Faculty Member in Video. The University of Wyoming's American Indian Study Program named Spang its \"Eminent Artist in Residence\" for the spring semester of 2014. During this time he taught a class on Native American art and held exhibitions at the university's art museum. Spang now works as an independent artist and has a studio in Billings, Montana.\n\nSpang's early work included mixed media sculptures, often made out of metal, and installations. His later work focused on incorporating digital technologies such as film and photography. Spang drew inspiration for his work in mixed media from how his Cheyenne ancestors incorporated European materials into their artwork; he has stated, \"There was this fearlessness about mediums that we don't really have today.\" Spang considers his art autobiographical, addressing his cultural identity as a Cheyenne living in a modern society and bridging the gap between these two worlds. Spang often adds humor to his works to help present these themes to his audience.\n\nFor example, in his sculpture \"Pevah\" (meaning \"good\" in Cheyenne), Spang used stone and wood to signify the Cheyenne part of him, and he used aluminum to signify the contemporary world. In constructing the project, he explained, \"The metal binds the stone, the wood binds them both. I am bound by my culture; we are still here after all.\" Another one of Spang's sculptures is inspired by the Cheyenne tradition of adorning the fringe of war shirts with the hairs from the warrior's community. The fringe on Spang's \"War Shirt #1\" is likewise composed of the photographic negatives of people he knows to show that he draws his strength from the community.\n\nSpang collaborated with techno DJ Bert Benally to create the \"Techno Pow Wow\", a mix of rave dance culture with into a traditional pow wow. This piece was inspired by the 1990s electronic music movement. Spang claimed that the energy and effortless dancing reminded him of the pow wows at the reservation. Spang performed as part of this piece as \"The Blue Guy\", the tribal chief figure of the future. Through the installation's mix of cultural music and dance, Spang hoped to showcase the similarities between Native American and modern culture. In his \"New American Relics: Redux 2\" (2009), Spang satirized museums and anthropologists' depiction of indigenous America as a \"lost culture\" using irony. He designed a futuristic museum exhibit for the \"vit-heut\" (meaning \"white man\" in Northern Cheyenne) with \"artifacts\" molded from the plastic encasings of ordinary modern objects.\n\nFrom February to March 2014, Spang presented his \"Bently Spang: On Fire\" exhibition at the University of Wyoming Art Museum, which told the story of the 2012 Ash Creek wildfire. In July 2017, Spang presented the video installation \"War Shirt #6 – Waterways\" as part of his Modern Warrior Series, at the Dry Creek Schoolhouse in Belgrade, Montana. The installation was a series of moving images within a steel war shirt conveying Spang's relationship with water.\n\nIn 2003, Spang won an Outstanding Alumni Award from MSU Billings for \"Exceptional Contribution\" and a Woodrow Wilson Foundation: Imagining America grant. The next year, he was awarded a Paul G. Allen Family Foundation Grant for his residency in conjunction with the Techno Powwow Project. Spang has also gained artist fellowships from the Creative Capital Foundation and the Joan Mitchell Foundation. He was one of the eight artists who received the 2017 Artist's Innovation Award from the Montana Arts Council.\n\n"}
{"id": "1084438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1084438", "title": "Border Force National Museum", "text": "Border Force National Museum\n\nSeized! The Border and Customs uncovered is the Border Force National Museum (previously - UK Border Agency), located in Liverpool, England and holds the national collection of HM Revenue and Customs, one of the most important collections of its type held anywhere in the world. Originally HM Customs & Excise National Museum, the collection is now a gallery located on the basement floor of the Merseyside Maritime Museum at the Albert Dock.\n\nThe exhibits tell the story of smuggling and contraband from the 18th century to the present day. They include an extensive display of tools of the job, prints, paintings and photographs relating to the work of the UK Border Agency and HM Revenue and Customs. Other items look at the ingenious and often dangerous world of smuggling, prohibited goods and concealment.\n\nThe museum was established in 1994 a partnership between National Museums Liverpool and HM Customs & Excise, which in 2005 merged with the Inland Revenue to form HM Revenue and Customs. The museum was designed to educate the public about smuggling and contraband from 1700s to the present day. \n\nThe museum was named as HM Revenue and Customs National Museum in May 2008 (known as 'Seized! Revenue and Customs Uncovered') and then became the UK Border Agency National Museum (known as 'Seized! The Border and Customs uncovered') following a new lead partnership with the UK Border Agency in 2009. Following the rename of the UK Border Agency in 2012 to Border Force, the museum is now known as \"Seized! The Border and Customs uncovered Border Force National Museum\".\n\nSince May 2008 the collection has been located in the basement of Merseyside Maritime Museum. Fraser Randall who was chosen to carry out a refurbishment of the exhibition by National Museums Liverpool. The construction company created setworks, interactives, audio visual and graphics works. The exhibition designers updated the collection with the ability for visitor interaction and family-friendly displays. The cost of the refurbishment totaled £500,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "11424714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11424714", "title": "Brown–Driver–Briggs", "text": "Brown–Driver–Briggs\n\nA Hebrew and English Lexicon of the Old Testament, more commonly known as Brown–Driver–Briggs or BDB (from the name of its three authors) is a standard reference for Biblical Hebrew and Aramaic, first published in 1906. It is organized by (Hebrew) alphabetical order of three letter roots. It was based on the Hebrew-German lexicon of Wilhelm Gesenius, translated by Edward Robinson. The chief editor was Francis Brown, with the co-operation of Samuel Rolles Driver and Charles Augustus Briggs, hence the name Brown–Driver–Briggs. Some modern printings have added the Strong's reference numbers for Biblical Hebrew and Aramaic words.\n\nIn 2013, semitists Jo Ann Hackett and John Huehnergard received a National Endowment for the Humanities grant to fund creation of a revised and updated electronic version of the BDB; the resulting \"Biblical Hebrew and Aramaic Lexicon\" will be available through a website (\"Semitica Electronica\") or via print-on-demand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1348213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1348213", "title": "Chaldean Neo-Aramaic", "text": "Chaldean Neo-Aramaic\n\nChaldean Neo-Aramaic, or simply Chaldean, is a Northeastern Neo-Aramaic language spoken throughout a large region stretching from the plain of Urmia, in northwestern Iran, to the Nineveh plains, in northern Iraq, together with parts of southeastern Turkey.\n\nChaldean Neo-Aramaic is closely related to Assyrian Neo-Aramaic, where it is at times considered a dialect of that language. Most Assyrian Christians in Iraq, Iran and the Khabour River Valley in Syria speak either the Chaldean Neo-Aramaic or Assyrian Neo-Aramaic variety, two varieties of Christian Neo-Aramaic or \"Sureth\". Despite the two terms seeming to indicate a separate religious or even ethnic identity, both languages and their native speakers originate from and are indigenous to the same Upper Mesopotamian region (what was Assyria between the 9th century BC and 7th century BC).\n\nImperial Aramaic was adopted as the second language of the Neo-Assyrian Empire by Tiglath-Pileser III in the 8th century BC in account of the mostly Aramaic population in areas conquered west of the Euphrates. On the Western periphery of Assyria there had been widespread Aramean-Akkadian bilingualism at least since the mid-9th century BC. Aramaic would supplant Akkadian throughout the entire empire.\n\nChaldean Neo-Aramaic is one of a number of modern Northeastern Aramaic languages spoken by Syriac Christians native to the northern region of Iraq from Kirkuk through the Nineveh plains, Irbil and Mosul to Dohuk, Urmia in northwestern Iran, northeastern Syria (particularly the Al Hasakah region) and in southeast Turkey, particularly Hakkari, Bohtan, Harran, Tur Abdin, Mardin and Diyarbakir. The Assyrian Christian dialects have been heavily influenced by Classical Syriac, the literary language of the Church of the East and the Chaldean Catholic Church in antiquity. Therefore, Christian Neo-Aramaic has a dual heritage: literary Syriac and colloquial Neo-Assyrian Eastern Aramaic. The closely related dialects are often collectively called \"Soureth\", or \"Syriac \"in Iraqi Arabic.\n\nJews, Mandeans and Syriac-Aramean Christians speak different dialects of Aramaic that are often mutually unintelligible.\n\nChaldean Neo-Aramaic and Assyrian Neo-Aramaic originate in the Nineveh Plains and Upper Mesopotamia, a region which was an integral part of ancient Assyria between the 9th century BC and 7th century BC. Chaldean (Assyrian) Neo-Aramaic bears a resemblance to the Assyrian tribal dialects of Tyari and Barwar in the Hakkari Province, although the Assyrian dialects do not use the pharyngeals /ħ/ and /ʕ/.\n\nLoanwords of Arabic, Persian and Kurdish origin exist in the language, as with Assyrian.\n\n\nChaldean Neo-Aramaic is written in the \"Madenhaya\" version of the Syriac alphabet, which is also used for classical Syriac. The \"School of Alqosh\" produced religious poetry in the colloquial Neo-Aramaic rather than classical Syriac in the 17th century prior to the founding of the Chaldean Catholic Church and the naming of the dialect as \"Chaldean Neo-Aramaic\", and the Dominican Press in Mosul has produced a number of books in the language. Alternatively, the Syriac Latin alphabet may also be used to transliterate the Syriac script into Latin.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12090387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12090387", "title": "Collins Spanish Dictionary", "text": "Collins Spanish Dictionary\n\nThe Collins Spanish Dictionary is a bilingual dictionary of English and Spanish derived from the Collins Word Web, an analytical linguistics database. As well as its primary function as a bilingual dictionary, it also contains usage guides for English and Spanish (known as \"Lengua y Uso\" and \"Language in Use\" respectively) and English and Spanish verb tables. In 2009, the dictionary was brought to the iPhone & iPad platform. The iOS app of this dictionary, which has become one of the most popular Spanish dictionaries in the App store since then is developed by Cole Zhu Inc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29070755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29070755", "title": "Comparison of TLS implementations", "text": "Comparison of TLS implementations\n\nThe Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol provides the ability to secure communications across networks. This comparison of TLS implementations compares several of the most notable libraries. There are several TLS implementations which are free software and open source.\n\nAll comparison categories use the stable version of each implementation listed in the overview section. The comparison is limited to features that directly relate to the TLS protocol.\n\nSeveral versions of the TLS protocol exist. SSL 2.0 is a deprecated protocol version with significant weaknesses. SSL 3.0 (1996) and TLS 1.0 (1999) are successors with two weaknesses in CBC-padding that were explained in 2001 by Serge Vaudenay. TLS 1.1 (2006) fixed only one of the problems, by switching to random initialization vectors (IV) for CBC block ciphers, whereas the more problematic use of mac-pad-encrypt instead of the secure pad-mac-encrypt was addressed with RFC7366. A workaround for SSL 3.0 and TLS 1.0, roughly equivalent to random IVs from TLS 1.1, was widely adopted by many implementations in late 2011, so from a security perspective, all existing version of TLS 1.0, 1.1 and 1.2 provide equivalent strength in the base protocol and are suitable for 128-bit security according to NIST SP800-57 up to at least 2030. In 2014, the POODLE vulnerability of SSL 3.0 was discovered, which takes advantage the known vulnerabilities in CBC, and an insecure fallback negotiation used in browsers.\n\nTLS 1.2 (2008) introduced a means to identify the hash used for digital signatures. While permitting the use of stronger hash functions for digital signatures in the future (rsa,sha256/sha384/sha512) over the SSL 3.0 conservative choice (rsa,sha1+md5), the TLS 1.2 protocol change inadvertently and substantially weakened the default digital signatures and provides (rsa,sha1) and even (rsa,md5).\n\nDatagram Transport Layer Security (DTLS or Datagram TLS) 1.0 is a modification of TLS 1.1 for a packet-oriented transport layer, where packet loss and packet reordering have to be tolerated. The revision DTLS 1.2 based on TLS 1.2 was published in January 2012\n\nNote that there are known vulnerabilities in SSL 2.0 and SSL 3.0. With the exception of the predictable IVs (for which an easy workaround exists) all currently known vulnerabilities affect all version of TLS 1.0/1.1/1.2 alike.\n\nRequired components for NSA Suite B Cryptography (RFC 6460) are:\n\nPer CNSSP-15, the 256-bit elliptic curve (specified in FIPS 186-2), SHA-256, and AES with 128-bit keys are sufficient for protecting classified information up to the Secret level, while the 384-bit elliptic curve (specified in FIPS 186-2), SHA-384, and AES with 256-bit keys are necessary for the protection of Top Secret information.\n\nNote that certain certifications have received serious negative criticism from people who are actually involved in them.\n\nThis section lists the certificate verification functionality available in the various implementations.\n\nThis section lists the supported elliptic curves by each implementation.\n\nNote the CRIME security exploit takes advantage of TLS compression, so conservative implementations do not enable compression at the TLS level. HTTP compression is unrelated and unaffected by this exploit, but is exploited by the related BREACH attack.\nIn this section the extensions each implementation supports are listed. Note that the Secure Renegotiation extension is critical for HTTPS client security . TLS clients not implementing it are vulnerable to attacks, irrespective of whether the client implements TLS renegotiation.\n\nThis section lists the known ability of an implementation to take advantage of CPU instruction sets that optimize encryption, or utilize system specific devices that allow access to underlying cryptographic hardware for acceleration or for data separation.\nThis section lists the ability of an implementation to take advantage of the available operating system specific backends, or even the backends provided by another implementation.\n"}
{"id": "32676756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32676756", "title": "Comparison of US and Chinese Military Armed Forces", "text": "Comparison of US and Chinese Military Armed Forces\n"}
{"id": "45240793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45240793", "title": "Comparison of WebDAV software", "text": "Comparison of WebDAV software\n\nThe following tables list and compare general information for a number of WebDAV clients and WebDAV libraries. \nPlease see the individual products' articles for further information.\n\n"}
{"id": "39232613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39232613", "title": "Council of Senior Scholars (Saudi Arabia)", "text": "Council of Senior Scholars (Saudi Arabia)\n\nThe Council of Senior Scholars (\"Majlis Hay'at Kibar al-‘Ulama -\" مجلس هيئة كبار العلماء, also known as the Senior Council of Ulema) is the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia's highest religious body, and advises the king on religious matters. The council is appointed by the king, with salaries paid by the government. As of 2009, the council was made up of 21 members. Saudi King Fahd has continued the precedent set by earlier kings of meeting weekly with Council members who resided in the capital, Riyadh. As of 2010, Saudi King Abdullah decreed that only members of the Council and a few other clerics could issue fatwa in Saudi Arabia.\n\nPrior to 1971, the council met informally, headed by the Grand Mufti. (As of 2009, the Grand Mufti—Sheikh Abdul-Aziz ibn Abdullah Al Shaykh—is still the head of the council.)\nOn 29 August 1972 King Faisal ibn Abd al-Aziz issued a royal decree establishing the Council.\n\nUntil 2009, the body was restricted to members of the Hanbali madhab (school of Islamic jurisprudence). On 14 February of that year King Abdullah expanded the Committee to include scholars from the other three Sunni schools of Islamic jurisprudence (Shafi'i, Hanafi and Maliki). Despite the newfound diversity, observers note that the scholars continue to hold very similar positions in regard to \"ʿAqīdah\" (creed).\n\nThe Senior Council assists in reviewing requests for fatwas prepared by the four (or five) member Permanent Committee for Islamic Research and Issuing Fatwas whose membership is drawn from the Senior Council. The members of the Senior Council are appointed to four year terms. In 2010, Saudi King Abdullah decreed that only officially approved religious scholars would be allowed to issue fatwas in Saudi Arabia, primarily the members the Council of Senior Scholars. At least one Islamic fatwa website Islam-QA run by Saudi Islamic scholar Muhammad Al-Munajid was banned in Saudi Arabia as a result.\n\nThe Senior Council and the Permanent Committee issue fatwas, the imams communicate them, and the Committee for the Promotion of Virtue and the Prevention of Vice enforces their rulings.\n\nWhile the ulema of Saudi Arabia and the Council are sometimes used interchangeably (for example here), in fact, of the estimated 7,000 to 10,000 people that make up the ulama and their families, only thirty to forty of the most senior scholars \"exercised substantive political influence\".\n\nAccording to Simon Henderson, the council must give a fatwa of approval before a new king is crowned. According to \"the Columbia World Dictionary of Islamism\", the council serves in theory to guide the Saudi king and to verify his \"fidelity\" to the Islamic principle of \"absolute obedience\" to Islamic law upon which \"the absolute authority of the sovereign\" over the Saudi population rests. However, in practice the council \"virtually never expresses opposition to any proposal from the royal family.\".\n\nThe Council is often used to provide religious support for government edicts. For example, in 2011 it issued a fatwa ruling against protest demonstrations calling them \"deviant intellectual and partisan connections\". Demonstrations \"and anything that leads to disunity and fragmentation of the nation\" were not allowed under Sharia (Islamic law). Reform could only come from giving advice and counsel, \"and not by issuing and collecting signatures on intimidating and incendiary statements that violate what God the most High has commanded\" (sura 4, aya 83, of the Koran were cited in support).\n\nIt is rarely in opposition to government policy, and when it does disagree, the Council generally expresses it by silence. Observers differ as to how much influence the Council has. Many believe the government generally consults the Council prior to issuing legislation, while other believe that \"more often than not\", the government does \"as it likes and then seeks approval after the fact\". According to Christopher Boucek, the influence of the Council and ulema in general varies according to how \"secure\" the royal family feels. Great levels of royal confidence lead to less disregard shown to, and greater control over the religious establishment. Unlike other ulema, Saudi scholars do not have income-generating lands or endowments to fund them and are dependent on government salaries.\n\nIn 1992 King Fahd pressured seven members of the Senior Ulema into retirement after they failed to sign a letter condemning conservative attacks on the al-Saud family. In 2009, another member—Sheikh Saad bin Nasser al-Shithri—was pressured to resign after he opposed gender mixing at the new King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, the first co-ed university in the Kingdom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54409444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54409444", "title": "Digital Transgender Archive", "text": "Digital Transgender Archive\n\nThe Digital Transgender Archive (DTA) is an online resource created by the College of the Holy Cross in Worcester, Massachusetts, in collaboration with more than thirty international colleges, universities, nonprofit organizations, and private collections. It was established to enable researchers to locate and make use of transgender-related materials in digital and physical collections. It serves as a finding aid for archival materials and an online hub for born-digital materials and digitized historical materials. According to the archive's website: \"In order to address these significant barriers to the accessibility of trans history, the DTA virtually merges disparate archival collections, digital materials, and independent projects with a single search engine. With rich primary source materials and powerful search tools, the DTA offers a generative point of entry into the fascinating and expansive world of trans history.\"\n\nThe DTA co-locates and provides direct access or links to materials from over thirty institutions including (but not limited to) Canadian Lesbian and Gay Archives, GLBT Historical Society, Leather Archives and Museum, Transgender Oral History Project, University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee, and ONE National Gay & Lesbian Archives in order to assist researchers in overcoming several challenges in conducting research into transgender history. Materials documenting transgender history are widely dispersed, and the level of description and access for materials varies widely. The creation of this resource makes available materials that were previously unavailable online or very difficult to find in archival collections. Because the term \"transgender\" is relatively new, materials processed in archives prior to the 1990s may not contain the now widely-accepted descriptive term, so this digital repository seeks to bridge that gap. The DTA contains over 2,300 items, including newsletters, periodicals, photographs, and zines, and—according to one of the originators of the project—\"anything related to 'trans-ing gender.'\" By digitally merging materials from multiple institutions world-wide, access is greatly increased.\n\nAssistant Professor K.J. Rawson received a Digital Innovation Fellowship and subsequent $150,000 Digital Extension Grant from the American Council of Learned Societies for work on the DTA. In 2017, the digital repository received the C.F.W. Coker Award from the Society of American Archivists, which honors \"finding aids, finding aid systems, innovative development in archival description, or descriptive tools that enable archivists to produce more effective finding aids\".\n\n"}
{"id": "49124321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49124321", "title": "Doe v. Regional School Unit 26", "text": "Doe v. Regional School Unit 26\n\nDoe v. Regional School Unit 26 (also referred to as Doe v. Clenchy) was an anti-discrimination case decided by the Maine Supreme Judicial Court in June 2013. In that case, transgender teenager Nicole Maines won the right to use the female bathroom in her high school. Upon initial filing, Maines was referenced by the pseudonym \"Susan Doe\" in court papers to protect her identity. This case marked the first time that a state court ruled denying a transgender student access to the bathroom consistent with their gender identity is unlawful.\n\nThe case stemmed from an incident when Maines was in elementary school and the grandfather of a classmate complaining after learning that Maines used the female washroom. Following this, Maines was forced to use the staff bathroom, which resulted in her parents suing the school district for discrimination. In June 2014, the Maine Supreme Judicial Court ruled that the school district violated the Human Rights Act, and prohibited the district from barring transgender students access to bathrooms consistent with their gender identity. Maines and her family were awarded $75,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "1102475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1102475", "title": "Encyclopedia of Genetics", "text": "Encyclopedia of Genetics\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Genetics () is a print encyclopedia of genetics edited by Sydney Brenner and Jeffrey H. Miller. It has four volumes and 1,700 entries. It is available online at http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/referenceworks/9780122270802.\n"}
{"id": "21281640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21281640", "title": "Fork Me, Spoon Me", "text": "Fork Me, Spoon Me\n\nFork Me, Spoon Me: The sensual cookbook is a cookbook by Amy Reiley. It was published in 2006 by Life of Reiley, the author’s publishing, consulting and speaking company.\n\n\"Fork Me, Spoon Me\" is 142 pages of recipes using ingredients which are thought to have an aphrodisiac effect. The book features 12 ingredients noted for their aphrodisiac history which are: mint, ginger root, rosemary, vanilla, chocolate, almonds, figs, peaches, mango, chile peppers, honey and saffron. Each ingredient is used in three to four recipes with tips for presentation and when to serve. Reiley includes references to ancient cultures and individuals that have mentioned foods having an aphrodisiac potential.\n\n\"Fork Me, Spoon Me\" was inspired by and fashioned after the \"Joy of Sex\" — the chapter layout and flow of content is similar.\nThe recipes in \"Fork Me, Spoon Me\" were created so that none requires a knife to eat. Only a fork, spoon and/or fingers are needed, hence the title of the cookbook.\n\n\"Fork Me, Spoon Me\" has been mentioned by the \"National Geographic\", \"The Times\", \"Marie Claire\" and \"The New York Daily News\". The cookbook has also led to appearances on news and entertainment programs throughout the United States and Canada, Australia and Britain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41477290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41477290", "title": "Four seasons altar of Würzburg", "text": "Four seasons altar of Würzburg\n\nA Roman decorated altar dating from early in the reign of Claudius (around AD 40) is known as the Four seasons altar of Würzburg (de: \"Würzburger Vierjahreszeitenaltar\"). It is kept in the Martin von Wagner Museum in Würzburg under the inventory number \"H 5056\".\n\nThe altar was found in 1886 on the Pincian Hill in Rome, once the site of the Horti Sallustiani and later an imperial property. The altar was immediately published, but it was soon forgotten. Decades later it turned up in an American private collection. In 1966 it was brought back to Rome, thanks to the artefact trade of Gorgio Fallani. There it was acquired for the antiquities division of Martin von Wagner Museum in Würzburg by Erika Simon who recognised the lost altar. The Italian state could raise no claim to the work after eighty years. The work was almost taken by the Antikensammlung Berlin, after Erika Simon made Friedrich Matz Junior and the director of the West Berlin collection Adolf Greifenhagen aware of the altar. However, despite the larger offer, Fallani sold the altar to Würzburg in accordance with his earlier promise.\n\nThe four seasons altar made of fine-grained white marble had a height of 73 centimetres and a diameter of 56.4 centimetres. Apart from a few nicks, it remains fully intact. The cherub representing the winter received some damage during the carving of the deed animal, which was not repaired.\n\nThe round altar shows four cherubs evenly spaced around it, which seem from their attributes to represent the four seasons. Winter is dressed as a farmworker and points to winter activities with a slaughtered animal and a wine amphora. The other three personifications allude to deities, who are symbolically associated with the four seasons by authors of the literary tradition, such as Ovid and Lucretius. A girdle of flowers recalls that of the Spring goddesses Venus and Flora; ears of corn and poppies refer to the goddess of fertility and summer, Ceres. The cherub of autumn recalls a satyr and holds a basket of grapes - symbolising the wine and autumn god Bacchus. The winter and spring cherubs face each other, as do the cherubs of autumn and summer.\n\nThe altar was probably intended less for cultic purposes than as an evocative garden decoration. Also, in the early imperial period, Imperial princes were depicted as cherubs, so there is probably a political significance in addition to the decorative function, which aimed for a prosperous growth of the Julio-Claudian dynasty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14044497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14044497", "title": "Ggulu", "text": "Ggulu\n\nGgulu is a character in the Gandan creation myth. He is the creator of all things in heaven.\n\nIn the legend, two of Ggulu's daughters discover Kintu, the first human being according to Gandan myth. When Kintu declines to follow the daughters to heaven, they tell Ggulu who promptly tells his son to steal Kintu's cow, his only source of nutrition. When Kintu is brought to heaven by Nambi, Ggulu's daughter, Ggulu tests him by ordering Kintu to eat ten thousand meals to prove that he is a man. Kintu secretly disposes of the food into a hidden cavern and Mugulu tests him yet again. When Kintu succeeds in the second test of cutting stones, through the use of a magical bronze axe, Ggulu orders Kintu to fetch him a bucket of dew to drink. Kintu is able to do this as the bucket itself has magical powers. Ggulu then tests Kintu one final time by herding three herds of ten thousand of cows before him. Kintu's job is to retrieve his cow, and when the third herd is driven by, a magic hornet aids him in identifying his cow, and two calves born while in captivity.\n\nUpon passing all of Ggulu's tests, Ggulu gives Kintu his daughter, Nambi, to take back to Earth. He also gives them multiple vegetable plants, a hen, and some millet. He warns them then to hurry back to Earth to avoid gaining the attention of Walumbe (meaning \"disease or death\"), Nambi's sister. He tells them not to come back for anything, but when Kintu forgets the hen's millet, he returns for it. Upon Kintu's return, Walumbe discovers the situation and confronts Kintu and Nambi. After much deliberation, Kintu and Nambi allow Walumbe to stay with them on Earth for a time. When Walumbe begins killing children on Earth, Kintu returns to Ggulu. Ggulu sends his son, Kaikuzi, to aid in ridding Earth of Walumbe. Finally, when humans ruin Kaikuzi's plan for capturing Walumbe, Kaikuzi returns to heaven and Ggulu allows Walumbe to remain on Earth.\n\n"}
{"id": "43121256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43121256", "title": "Harding v Coburn", "text": "Harding v Coburn\n\nHarding v Coburn [1976] 2 NZLR 577 was a New Zealand case that was one of the first that upheld that the Illegal Contracts Act 1970 had the power to validate (i.e. make legal) despite the fact that another legal enactment \"deemed to be unlawful and shall have no effect\".\n\nHarding sold their farm to Coburn. Unfortunately, the parties neglected to get the sale approved by the Court, as required under s25(4) of the Land Settlement Promotion and Land Acquisition Act [1952]. Under this Act, failure to obtain such a consent made the sale \"unlawful and shall have no effect\".\n\nAs a consequence, Coburn sought the relief of validation under section 7 of the Illegal Contracts Act 1970. Harding's lawyers argued that as the sale was illegal under the Land Settlement Promotion and Land Acquisition Act, there was no legally enforceable sale agreement.\n\nThe Court of Appeal ruled that the courts had the power to validate contracts that are deemed illegal unless the other Act expressly prohibits validation under the Illegal Contracts Act.\n\nFootnote: This position was later upheld by the Privy Council in Ross v Henderson [1977] 2 NZLR 458.\n"}
{"id": "57349944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57349944", "title": "J. R. R. Tolkien, A Descriptive Bibliography", "text": "J. R. R. Tolkien, A Descriptive Bibliography\n\nJ.R.R. Tolkien, A Descriptive Biography is a work by Douglas A. Anderson and Wayne G. Hammond that is a complete bibliography of the publications of J. R. R. Tolkien. It has a foreword by Rayner Unwin. \n\nThe book subdivides the works of Tolkien into the following sections:\n\n\nThe book has been in two editions, a first printing published in 1993 by St. Paul's Bibliographies, and a second printing in 2002 by Oak Knoll Press.\n\nA review for the Bibliographical Society of America by Barbara A. Brannon calls it \"an essential guide\" for scholarship. The Tolkien Library says that \"Anyone willing to collect books by Tolkien simply must have this book\". The book was also the winner of the Mythopoeic Society's scholarship award for Inkling studies in 1994.\n"}
{"id": "31827055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31827055", "title": "Keeper of Palaeontology, Natural History Museum", "text": "Keeper of Palaeontology, Natural History Museum\n\nThe Keeper of Palaeontology is a palaeontological academic position within the Natural History Museum, London. The Keeper of Palaeontology serves as the Head of the Department of Palaeontology. Between 1813 and 1956 the department was known as the Department of Geology, and the head of the department as the Keeper of Geology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49530775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49530775", "title": "Khady Diallo", "text": "Khady Diallo\n\nKhady Diallo (born 1955) is an Ivory Coast Francophile and cultural engineer. She was associated with the first edition of \"Le grand dictionnaire encyclopédique de la Côte d'Ivoire\". She was the Ivorian cultural attache in Paris and she was appointed the General Secretary of the National Commission of the Francophonie in Cote d`Ivoire in 2014.\n\nDiallo was born in the capital of the Ivory Coast, Abidjan in 1955. She graduated in 1973 and became qualified in audiovisual production at the \"Société française de production\" in 1977. In 1979 she produced \"I Love TV\" for transmission on the Ivory Coast. The main presenter was .\n\nIn 1983 she oversaw with the creation of an encyclopaedic dictionary for the Ivory Coast which had been researched extensively by Raymond Borremans. This work was published in six volumes in 1986 after funding by New African Editions and the Ministry of Higher Education. The encyclopedia continued to further editions.\n\nIn 1996 she was involved in preparing the first programme to discuss AIDS on Ivorian television.\n\nIn 2010 she was responsible for \"Fashion\" at the World Festival of Black Arts in Dakar. She was the Ivorian cultural attache in Paris in 2007 and she was appointed the General Secretary of the National Commission of the Francophonie in Cote d`Ivoire in 2014.\n\nDiallo is an officer in the Ivorian l`ordre Cultural Merit.\n"}
{"id": "13222450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13222450", "title": "List of Latter Day Saint periodicals", "text": "List of Latter Day Saint periodicals\n\nThis article lists periodicals published primarily about institutions, people, or issues of the Latter Day Saint movement.\n\nThe following began publication before Joseph Smith's death on June 27, 1844, after which several followers declared themselves his successor and split into various groups.\n\nCompared with other sects in the Latter Day Saint movement, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) is by far the largest and has published the most.\n\nThe following were published by the LDS Church or one of its auxiliaries, and are considered official church publications. \nThe following were published under the sponsorship of the LDS Church or a Church-owned institution or informally adopted by a church auxiliary, but are not considered official church publications.\nThe following were published by religious groups in the Latter Day Saint movement, excluding the LDS Church.\nThe following were not published by a Latter Day Saint church or official religious group, but were independently operated and controlled.\nThe following were published in languages other than English.\n"}
{"id": "24917749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24917749", "title": "List of international adoption scandals", "text": "List of international adoption scandals\n\nThe following is a partial list, by year, of notable incidents or reports of international adoption scandals, adoption corruption, child harvesting, baby-stealing, legal violations in international adoption, or adoption agency corruption (see child laundering; child trafficking: \"In the United States international adoptions are a big business, where a large number of private international adoption agencies are paid on average $30,000 a time to find a child for hopeful parents.\"\n\nEthiopia indefinitely suspended, and later banned, all adoptions to the United States.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThis followed investigations by a local human rights group and the Phnom Penh Post exposing baby-buying and abduction through Lauryn Galindo's adoption operations, as well as others. In 2004, Galindo pleaded guilty to federal charges and was sentenced to 18 months in prison and also ordered to forfeit more than $1.4 million in property in Hawaii.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42962825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42962825", "title": "London Past and Present", "text": "London Past and Present\n\nLondon Past and Present: Its History, Associations, and Traditions by Henry B. Wheatley is a topographical and historical dictionary of London streets and landmarks, published by John Murray in 1891, that is still regarded as a definitive work in its area. Wheatley's work was based upon \"The Handbook of London\" by Peter Cunningham, published 1849, as well as literary, architectural and historical sources.\n\nIt was reprinted by Cambridge University Press in 2011 in the Cambridge Library Collection of \"works of enduring scholarly value\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44879273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44879273", "title": "Los Palacios Municipal Museum", "text": "Los Palacios Municipal Museum\n\nLos Palacios Municipal Museum is a museum located in the 21st street Los Palacios, Cuba. In this building lived Enrique Troncoso, a Cuban revolutionary. It was established as a museum on 30 December 1980.\n\nThe museum holds several collections on history, numismatics, local publications and weapons.\n\n"}
{"id": "284926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=284926", "title": "Maritime museum", "text": "Maritime museum\n\nA maritime museum (sometimes nautical museum) is a museum specializing in the display of objects relating to ships and travel on large bodies of water. A subcategory of maritime museums are naval museums, which focus on navies and the military use of the sea.\n\nThe great prize of a maritime museum is a historic ship (or a replica) made accessible as a museum ship, but as these are large and require a considerable budget to maintain, many museums preserve smaller or more fragile ships or partial ships within the museum buildings. Most museums exhibit interesting pieces of ships (such as a figurehead or cannon), ship models, and miscellaneous small items associated with ships and shipping, like cutlery, uniforms, and so forth.\n\nShip modellers often have a close association with maritime museums; not only does the museum have items that help the modeller achieve better accuracy, but the museum provides a display space for models larger than will comfortably fit in a modeller's home, and of the museum is happy to take a ship model as a donation. Museums will also commission models.\n\nThere are thousands of maritime museums in the world. Many belong to the International Congress of Maritime Museums, which coordinates members' efforts to acquire, preserve, and display their material. There is a risk that too many maritime museums might dilute the experience for the public, while a poorly managed museum might put other municipalities off from the idea of hosting such a museum.\n\nAt , Mystic Seaport in Mystic, Connecticut, US, can lay claim to the title of largest museum; it preserves not only a number of sailing ships, but also a large number of original seaport buildings, including a ship chandlery, sail loft, ropewalk, and so forth. However, the UK's National Maritime Museum in Greenwich is also a contender, with many items of great historical significance, such as the actual uniform worn by Horatio Nelson at the Battle of Trafalgar.\n\nA recent activity of maritime museums is to build replicas of ships, since there are few survivors that have not already been restored and put on display. Another is operating a museum harbour, most notably in Germany and the Netherlands but elsewhere too, that offers mooring to privately owned historical vessels, which can be watched but not boarded.\n\nThe preservation of ships in museums ensures that ancient and historic vessels are preserved for posterity in optimum conditions and are available for academic study and for public education and interest.\n\nRemains of ancient and historic ships and boats can be seen in museums around the world. Where a ship is in a good state of preservation it can sometimes act as a museum in its own right. Many museum ships, such as HMS Victory are popular tourist attractions. Some ships are too fragile to be exposed outdoors or are incomplete and must be preserved indoors. The remains of the Mary Rose for example are kept in a purpose designed building so that conservation treatment can be applied.\n\nIn some cases, archaeologists have discovered traces of ships and boats where there are no extant physical remains to be preserved, such as Sutton Hoo, where museum displays can show what the vessel would have looked like, although the vessel itself no longer exists.\n\n\n\nThe Council of American Maritime Museums serves as network for museum professionals in North America.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "310411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=310411", "title": "Natural History Museum, London", "text": "Natural History Museum, London\n\nThe Natural History Museum in London is a natural history museum that exhibits a vast range of specimens from various segments of natural history. It is one of three major museums on Exhibition Road in South Kensington, the others being the Science Museum and the Victoria and Albert Museum. The Natural History Museum's main frontage, however, is on Cromwell Road.\n\nThe museum is home to life and earth science specimens comprising some 80 million items within five main collections: botany, entomology, mineralogy, paleontology and zoology. The museum is a centre of research specialising in taxonomy, identification and conservation. Given the age of the institution, many of the collections have great historical as well as scientific value, such as specimens collected by Charles Darwin. The museum is particularly famous for its exhibition of dinosaur skeletons and ornate architecture—sometimes dubbed a \"cathedral of nature\"—both exemplified by the large \"Diplodocus\" cast that dominated the vaulted central hall before it was replaced in 2017 with the skeleton of a blue whale hanging from the ceiling. The Natural History Museum Library contains extensive books, journals, manuscripts, and artwork collections linked to the work and research of the scientific departments; access to the library is by appointment only. The museum is recognised as the pre-eminent centre of natural history and research of related fields in the world.\n\nAlthough commonly referred to as the Natural History Museum, it was officially known as British Museum (Natural History) until 1992, despite legal separation from the British Museum itself in 1963. Originating from collections within the British Museum, the landmark Alfred Waterhouse building was built and opened by 1881 and later incorporated the Geological Museum. The Darwin Centre is a more recent addition, partly designed as a modern facility for storing the valuable collections.\n\nLike other publicly funded national museums in the United Kingdom, the Natural History Museum does not charge an admission fee. (It did but was scrapped in 2001) \nThe museum is an exempt charity and a non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport. Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge is a patron of the museum. There are approximately 850 staff at the Museum. The two largest strategic groups are the Public Engagement Group and Science Group.\n\nThe foundation of the collection was that of the Ulster doctor Sir Hans Sloane (1660–1753), who allowed his significant collections to be purchased by the British Government at a price well below their market value at the time. This purchase was funded by a lottery. Sloane's collection, which included dried plants, and animal and human skeletons, was initially housed in Montagu House, Bloomsbury, in 1756, which was the home of the British Museum.\n\nMost of the Sloane collection had disappeared by the early decades of the nineteenth century. Dr George Shaw (Keeper of Natural History 1806–13) sold many specimens to the Royal College of Surgeons and had periodic \"cremations\" of material in the grounds of the museum. His successors also applied to the trustees for permission to destroy decayed specimens. In 1833 the Annual Report states that, of the 5,500 insects listed in the Sloane catalogue, none remained. The inability of the natural history departments to conserve its specimens became notorious: the Treasury refused to entrust it with specimens collected at the government's expense. Appointments of staff were bedevilled by gentlemanly favoritism; in 1862 a nephew of the mistress of a Trustee was appointed Entomological Assistant despite not knowing the difference between a butterfly and a moth.\n\nJ. E. Gray (Keeper of Zoology 1840–74) complained of the incidence of mental illness amongst staff: George Shaw threatened to put his foot on any shell not in the 12th edition of Linnaeus' \"Systema Naturae\"; another had removed all the labels and registration numbers from entomological cases arranged by a rival. The huge collection of the conchologist Hugh Cuming was acquired by the museum, and Gray's own wife had carried the open trays across the courtyard in a gale: all the labels blew away. That collection is said never to have recovered.\n\nThe Principal Librarian at the time was Antonio Panizzi; his contempt for the natural history departments and for science in general was total. The general public was not encouraged to visit the Museum's natural history exhibits. In 1835 to a Select Committee of Parliament, Sir Henry Ellis said this policy was fully approved by the Principal Librarian and his senior colleagues.\n\nMany of these faults were corrected by the palaeontologist Richard Owen, appointed Superintendent of the natural history departments of the British Museum in 1856. His changes led Bill Bryson to write that \"by making the Natural History Museum an institution for everyone, Owen transformed our expectations of what museums are for\".\n\nOwen saw that the natural history departments needed more space, and that implied a separate building as the British Museum site was limited. Land in South Kensington was purchased, and in 1864 a competition was held to design the new museum. The winning entry was submitted by the civil engineer Captain Francis Fowke, who died shortly afterwards. The scheme was taken over by Alfred Waterhouse who substantially revised the agreed plans, and designed the façades in his own idiosyncratic Romanesque style which was inspired by his frequent visits to the Continent. The original plans included wings on either side of the main building, but these plans were soon abandoned for budgetary reasons. The space these would have occupied are now taken by the Earth Galleries and Darwin Centre.\n\nWork began in 1873 and was completed in 1880. The new museum opened in 1881, although the move from the old museum was not fully completed until 1883.\n\nBoth the interiors and exteriors of the Waterhouse building make extensive use of terracotta tiles to resist the sooty atmosphere of Victorian London, manufactured by the Tamworth-based company of Gibbs and Canning Limited. The tiles and bricks feature many relief sculptures of flora and fauna, with living and extinct species featured within the west and east wings respectively. This explicit separation was at the request of Owen, and has been seen as a statement of his contemporary rebuttal of Darwin's attempt to link present species with past through the theory of natural selection.\n\nThe central axis of the museum is aligned with the tower of Imperial College London (formerly the Imperial Institute) and the Royal Albert Hall and Albert Memorial further north. These all form part of the complex known colloquially as Albertopolis.\n\nEven after the opening, the Natural History Museum legally remained a department of the British Museum with the formal name British Museum (Natural History), usually abbreviated in the scientific literature as \"B.M.(N.H.)\". A petition to the Chancellor of the Exchequer was made in 1866, signed by the heads of the Royal, Linnean and Zoological Societies as well as naturalists including Darwin, Wallace and Huxley, asking that the museum gain independence from the board of the British Museum, and heated discussions on the matter continued for nearly one hundred years. Finally, with the passing of the British Museum Act 1963, the British Museum (Natural History) became an independent museum with its own Board of Trustees, although – despite a proposed amendment to the act in the House of Lords – the former name was retained. In 1989 the museum publicly re-branded itself as The Natural History Museum and effectively stopped using the title British Museum (Natural History) on its advertising and its books for general readers. Only with the Museums and Galleries Act 1992 did the Museum's formal title finally change to the Natural History Museum.\n\nIn 1986, the museum absorbed the adjacent Geological Museum of the British Geological Survey, which had long competed for the limited space available in the area. The Geological Museum became world-famous for exhibitions including an active volcano model and an earthquake machine (designed by James Gardner), and housed the world's first computer-enhanced exhibition (\"Treasures of the Earth\"). The museum's galleries were completely rebuilt and relaunched in 1996 as \"The Earth Galleries\", with the other exhibitions in the Waterhouse building retitled \"The Life Galleries\". The Natural History Museum's own Mineralogy displays remain largely unchanged as an example of the 19th-century display techniques of the Waterhouse building.\n\nThe central atrium design by Neal Potter overcame visitors' reluctance to visit the upper galleries by \"pulling\" them through a model of the Earth made up of random plates on an escalator. The new design covered the walls in recycled slate and sandblasted the major stars and planets onto the wall. The Museum's 'star' geological exhibits are displayed within the walls. Six iconic figures are the backdrop to discussing how previous generations have viewed Earth. These were later removed to make place for a Stegosaurus skeleton that was put on display in late 2015.\n\nThe Darwin Centre (named after Charles Darwin) was designed as a new home for the museum's collection of tens of millions of preserved specimens, as well as new work spaces for the museum's scientific staff, and new educational visitor experiences. Built in two distinct phases, with two new buildings adjacent to the main Waterhouse building, it is the most significant new development project in the museum's history.\n\nPhase one of the Darwin Centre opened to the public in 2002, and it houses the zoological department's 'spirit collections'—organisms preserved in alcohol. Phase Two was unveiled in September 2008 and opened to the general public in September 2009. It was designed by the Danish architecture practice C. F. Møller Architects in the shape of a giant, eight-story cocoon and houses the entomology and botanical collections—the 'dry collections'. It is possible for members of the public to visit and view non-exhibited items behind the scenes for a fee by booking onto one of the several Spirit Collection Tours offered daily. \n\nArguably the most famous creature in the centre is the 8.62-metre-long giant squid, affectionately named Archie.\n\nAs part of the museum's remit to communicate science education and conservation work, a new multimedia studio will form an important part of Darwin Centre Phase 2. In collaboration with the BBC's Natural History Unit (holder of the largest archive of natural history footage) the Attenborough Studio—named after the broadcaster Sir David Attenborough—provides a multimedia environment for educational events. The studio plans to continue the daily lectures and demonstrations.\n\nOne of the most famous and certainly most prominent of the exhibits—nicknamed \"Dippy\"—is a -long replica of a \"Diplodocus carnegii\" skeleton which was on display for many years within the central hall. The cast was given as a gift by the Scottish-American industrialist Andrew Carnegie, after a discussion with King Edward VII, then a keen trustee of the British Museum. Carnegie paid £2,000 for the casting, copying the original held at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History. The pieces were sent to London in 36 crates, and on 12 May 1905, the exhibit was unveiled to great public and media interest. The real fossil had yet to be mounted, as the Carnegie Museum in Pittsburgh was still being constructed to house it. As word of Dippy spread, Mr Carnegie paid to have additional copies made for display in most major European capitals and in Latin and South America, making Dippy the most-viewed dinosaur skeleton in the world. The dinosaur quickly became an iconic representation of the museum, and has featured in many cartoons and other media, including the 1975 Disney comedy \"One of Our Dinosaurs Is Missing\". After 112 years on display at the museum, the dinosaur replica was removed in early 2017 to be replaced by the actual skeleton of a young blue whale. Dippy is due to start a tour of British museums in 2018.\nThe blue whale skeleton that has replaced Dippy is another prominent display in the museum. The display of the skeleton, some 25 m long and weighing 10 tons, was only made possible in 1934 with the building of the New Whale Hall (now the Large Mammals Hall). The whale had been in storage for 42 years since its stranding on sandbanks at the mouth of Wexford Harbour, Ireland in March 1891 after being injured by whalers. Discussion of the idea of a life-size model also began around this time, and work was undertaken within the Whale Hall itself. Since taking a cast of such a large animal was deemed prohibitively expensive, scale models were used to meticulously piece the structure together. During construction, workmen left a trapdoor within the whale's stomach, which they would use for surreptitious cigarette breaks. Before the door was closed and sealed forever, some coins and a telephone directory were placed inside—this soon growing to an urban myth that a time capsule was left inside. The work was completed—entirely within the hall and in view of the public—in 1938. At the time it was the largest such model in the world, at 28.3 m in length. The construction details were later borrowed by several American museums, who scaled the plans further. The work involved in removing Dippy and replacing it with the whale skeleton was documented in a BBC Television special, \"Horizon: Dippy and the Whale\", narrated by David Attenborough, which was first broadcast on BBC Two on 13 July 2017, the day before the whale skeleton was unveiled for public display.\n\nThe Darwin Centre is host to Archie, an eight-metre-long giant squid taken alive in a fishing net near the Falkland Islands in 2004. The squid is not on general display, but stored in the large tank room in the basement of the Phase 1 building. On arrival at the museum, the specimen was immediately frozen while preparations commenced for its permanent storage. Since few complete and reasonably fresh examples of the species exist, \"wet storage\" was chosen, leaving the squid undissected. A 9.45-metre acrylic tank was constructed (by the same team that provide tanks to Damien Hirst), and the body preserved using a mixture of formalin and saline solution.\n\nThe museum holds the remains and bones of the \"River Thames whale\", a northern bottlenose whale that lost its way on 20 January 2006 and swam into the Thames. Although primarily used for research purposes, and held at the museum's storage site at Wandsworth, the skeleton has been put on temporary public display.\n\nDinocochlea, one of the longer-standing mysteries of paleontology (originally thought to be a giant gastropod shell, then a coprolite and now a concretion of a worm's tunnel), has been part of the collection since its discovery in 1921.\n\nThe museum keeps a wildlife garden on its west lawn, on which a potentially new species of insect resembling Arocatus roeselii was discovered in 2007.\n\nThis is the zone that can be entered from Exhibition Road, on the East side of the building. It is a gallery themed around the changing history of the Earth.\n\n\"Earth's Treasury\" shows specimens of rocks, minerals and gemstones behind glass in a dimly lit gallery. \"Lasting Impressions\" is a small gallery containing specimens of rocks, plants and minerals, of which most can be touched.\n\n\n\nThe museum runs a series of educational and public engagement programmes. These include for example a highly praised \"How Science Works\" hands on workshop for school students demonstrating the use of microfossils in geological research. The museum also played a major role in securing designation of the Jurassic Coast of Devon and Dorset as a UNESCO World Heritage site and has subsequently been a lead partner in the Lyme Regis Fossil Festivals.\n\nIn 2005, the museum launched a project to develop notable gallery characters to patrol display cases, including 'facsimiles' of luminaries such as Carl Linnaeus, Mary Anning, Dorothea Bate and William Smith. They tell stories and anecdotes of their lives and discoveries and aim to surprise visitors.\n\nIn 2010 a six-part BBC documentary series was filmed at the museum entitled \"Museum of Life\" exploring the history and \"behind the scenes\" aspects of the museum.\n\nSince May 2001 the Natural History Museum admission is free for most of the exhibitions. However, there are certain temporary exhibits and shows that would entail a fee.\nThe Natural History museum combines museum's life and earth science collections with specialist expertise in \"taxonomy, systematics, biodiversity, natural resources, planetary science, evolution and informatics\" to tackle scientific questions.\nIn 2011 the Museum led the setting up of an International Union for the Conservation of Nature Bumblebee Specialist Group, chaired by Dr. Paul H. Williams, to assess the threat status of bumblebee species worldwide using Red List criteria.\n\nThe closest London Underground station is South Kensington — there is a tunnel from the station that emerges close to the entrances of all three museums. Admission is free, though there are donation boxes in the foyer.\n\nMuseum Lane immediately to the north provides disabled access to the museum.\n\nA connecting bridge between the Natural History and Science museums closed to the public in the late 1990s.\n\nThe museum is a prominent setting in Charlie Fletcher's children's book about unLondon \"Stoneheart\". George Chapman, the hero, sneaks outside when punished on a school trip; he breaks off a small dragon's stone head from a relief and is chased by a pterodactyl which comes to life from a statue on the roof.\n\nThe museum is the primary setting for Rattle His Bones, the 8th Daisy Dalrymple Mystery by \"Carola Dunn\". The story revolves around a murder and jewel theft occurring during the time Daisy Dalrymple is writing a story about the museum for an American publisher.\n\nThe museum plays an important role in the London-based Disney live-action feature \"One of Our Dinosaurs Is Missing\"; the eponymous skeleton is stolen from the museum, and a group of intrepid nannies hide inside the mouth of what is supposed to be the Blue Whale model (in fact a specially created prop – the nannies peer out from behind the whale's teeth, but a real Blue Whale is a baleen whale and has no teeth). Additionally, the film is set in the 1920s, before the Blue Whale model was built.\n\nBritish fantasy author China Miéville based the plot of his 2010 novel \"Kraken: An Anatomy\" around the theft of \"Archie\" from the museum's Darwin Centre by a mysterious squid cult.\n\nIn the 2014 film \"Paddington\" the villain is a taxidermist at the museum. She kidnaps the bear Paddington intending to kill and stuff him, but is thwarted by the Brown family after scenes involving chases inside and on the roof of the building.\n\nIn the first episode of the third season of the TV series \"Penny Dreadful\" (2014 - 2016), the main character Vanessa Ives (Eva Green) visited the museum when her psychotherapist told her to \"go somewhere different\". There, she meets Dr. Alexander Sweet (Christian Camargo) who is a zoologist and the Director of Zoological Studies. The museum was then frequently seen in the following episodes as Vanessa and Dr. Sweet's relationship flourishes.\n\nThe NHM also has an outpost located in Tring, Hertfordshire. Built by local eccentric\nLionel Walter Rothschild, the NHM took ownership in 1938. In 2007, the museum announced the name would be changed to the Natural History Museum at Tring, though the older name, the Walter Rothschild Zoological Museum is still in widespread use.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17047823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17047823", "title": "Odd Fellows Building and Auditorium", "text": "Odd Fellows Building and Auditorium\n\nThe Odd Fellows Building and Auditorium, located at 228—250 Auburn Avenue, N.E. in the Sweet Auburn Historic District of Atlanta, Georgia, are historic buildings built in 1912 and 1913, respectively, as the headquarters of the District Grand Lodge No. 18, Jurisdiction of Georgia, of the Grand United Order of Odd Fellows in America. B.S. Ingram was District Grand Master and Dr. William F. Penn was chairman of the building committee. Renowned Atlanta-based architect William Augustus Edwards designed the buildings, while Robert E. Pharrow was the contractor and M.B. Morton was superintendent of construction. Booker T. Washington dedicated the Odd Fellows Building in 1912.\n\nThe Odd Fellows Building and Auditorium are closely linked with Benjamin Jefferson Davis, Sr. (1870–1945), Atlanta's most influential black journalist, who edited the \"Atlanta Independent\", the official organ of District No. 18. He was District Grand Secretary and a member of the Building Committee when they were built.\n\nThe Odd Fellows Building, called the Tower, is 6 stories high while the Auditorium next door, called the Annex, is 2 stories with an atrium that adds another 2 or 3 stories in height. Both are built of redbrick except for the first floor of the Tower which is stone. The Annex was used for many years as a movie house and was the only major venue in Atlanta where blacks could be seated on the main floor. In addition to providing meeting and office space for the Odd Fellows, the Tower provided office and store space for black-owned businesses and black professionals. Its flat roof was used for dances for many years.\n\nOn May 2, 1975, both buildings were added to the National Register of Historic Places.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6196888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6196888", "title": "Ratner's", "text": "Ratner's\n\nRatner's was a famous Jewish kosher dairy \"(milkhik)\" restaurant on the Lower East Side of New York City. Since it did not serve meat in deference to the kosher rule about not mixing milk and meat products, it was often regarded as a complement to Katz's Deli.\n\nRatner's was founded in 1905 by Jacob Harmatz and his brother-in-law Alex Ratner, who supposedly flipped a coin to decide whose name would be on the sign. Ratner sold his share in the restaurant to Harmatz in 1918, and it remained in the Harmatz family from then on. Jacob's son, Harold Harmatz, took over the business in the mid-1950s, dying a year after the restaurant ceased operation in 2002.\n\nBrunch was the main meal at the dairy restaurant, and up to 1,200 people were served daily at the peak of its popularity. Noted menu items included cheese blintzes, potato pancakes \"(latkes)\", hot onion rolls, and split-pea soup. Other key items were gefilte fish, poached salmon-in-aspic, kasha varnishkes, and vegetable borsht. and many recipes survive in print. According to \"The World-Famous Ratner's Meatless Cookbook\", the winner and undisputed champion at Ratner's was its famous onion roll which were featured on every table with every meal. More than fifteen hundred onion rolls were baked daily, three thousand on Sundays.\n\nThe original location was on Pitt Street in Manhattan, but the restaurant moved in 1918 to its better-known location at 138 Delancey Street, where it remained until its closing. There was also a location at 111 Second Avenue, operated by other members of the family. Until 1975, it was open 24 hours a day and therefore part of the late-night city scene popular with Jewish performers, actors, musicians, and gangsters. Entertainers Bill Graham, Al Jolson, Fanny Brice, Marty Allen, Eydie Gormé, Walter Matthau, Elia Kazan, Max Gordon, Groucho Marx, and Alan King were all regular customers, while gangsters Bugsy Siegel and Meyer Lansky frequented the Delancey Street location.\n\nPrior to the closing of the Delancey Street location, a back room at Ratner's was opened as a bar called \"Lansky's Lounge,\" named after the deceased gangster who, according to Robert Harmatz, told the owners he was there so often that he deserved to have his own room. The lounge has since closed as well, though another bar continues to exist in the space.\n\nThere was also a Ratner's soup cart that operated on only on weekdays and served a selection of dairy soups. The cart was located at the corner of 6th Avenue and 46th Street and operated until sometime in the late 1990s.\n\nThe Ratner's located at 111 Second Avenue, run by Abraham Harmatz, surpassed the Delancey Street restaurant in popularity for many years, especially during the late 1960s and early 1970s when the Lower East Side gradually became known as \"The East Village\" -- a hip and creative Mecca. Sam Jaffee, the longtime night manager of The Second Avenue Ratner's, worked with Fillmore East impresario Bill Graham, in stocking the Fillmore's mezzanine food concession with Ratner's baked goods.\n\nA number of products are still manufactured using the Ratner's name by King Kold, which owns the brand, including blintzes, crepes, potato pancakes, veggie pancakes, pierogies, matzo balls, and soups, which are distributed wholesale to supermarkets.\n\nIn 1975, Jacob Harmatz's daughter, Judith Gethers, and her niece, Elizabeth Lefft, published \"The World Famous Ratner's Meatless Cookbook\". Ms. Gethers authored seven cookbooks and assisted other chefs with their publications.\n\nAn exterior scene of Ratner's is shown in the movie \"The French Connection\", where Angie and Sal Boca have a sunrise breakfast. Ratner's was also featured at the end of the \"Christmas Waltz\" episode of \"Mad Men\", first broadcast on May 20, 2013.\n\nThe exterior of the Second Avenue Ratner's is briefly visible in a 1962 episode of the \"Naked City\" TV series entitled \"The Face of the Enemy\".\n\nRatner's was also seen in the 2000 movie, \"Boiler Room\" where the main character Seth, (Giovanni Ribisi) has a meal with his family. An exterior shot shows the front of the restaurant. The interior scene that immediately follows shows Ratner's famous onion rolls on the family's table. \n\nA scene in Bringing Out the Dead was filmed here as well. Theodore Peck, the great grandson of Jacob spilled whiskey on a camera.\n\n"}
{"id": "50628271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50628271", "title": "Richard Francis Burton bibliography", "text": "Richard Francis Burton bibliography\n\nThe British explorer and Arabist Sir Richard Francis Burton (1821–1890) published over 40 books and countless articles, monographs and letters. Most of Burton's books are travel narratives and translations. His only works of original imaginative fiction are both in verse: \"Stone Talk\" (1865) and the well-known \"The Kasidah\" (1880), both of which he published under the pseudonym \"Frank Baker\".\n\nA great number of Burton's journal and magazine pieces have never been catalogued. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "177681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177681", "title": "Schadenfreude", "text": "Schadenfreude\n\nSchadenfreude (; ; 'harm-joy') is the experience of pleasure, joy, or self-satisfaction that comes from learning of or witnessing the troubles, failures, or humiliation of another. It is one of four related emotions or concepts.\n\nSchadenfreude is a complex negative emotion. Rather than feeling sympathy towards someones misfortune, schadenfreude evokes joyful feelings that take pleasure from watching someone fail. This emotion is displayed more in children than adults, however adults also experience schadenfreude, they are just better at concealing their expressions,\n\n\"Schadenfreude\" is borrowed from German; it is a compound of \"Schaden\", \"damage, harm\", and \"Freude\", \"joy\". The German word was first mentioned in English texts in 1852 and 1867, and first used in English running text in 1895. In German, it was first attested in the 1740s.\n\nThough common nouns are normally not capitalised in English, \"Schadenfreude\" is sometimes capitalised following the German convention.\n\nResearchers have found that there are three driving forces behind schadenfreude: aggression, rivalry, and justice. The people who experience schadenfreude usually have low self esteem. Seeing another person fail brings them a small surge of confidence. Whereas, seeing someone who is successful poses as a threat to their sense of self and seeing the 'mighty' fall can be a source of comfort.\n\n\n\n\n\"Schadenfreude\" has equivalents in other languages (for example, German, Dutch, Arabic, Hebrew, Bangla, Czech, Norwegian and Finnish), but no commonly used precise English single-word equivalent. There are other ways to express the concept in English.\n\n\"Epicaricacy\" is a seldom-used direct equivalent, borrowed from Greek \"epichairekakia\" (ἐπιχαιρεκακία, first attested in Aristotle), from ἐπί \"epi\" 'upon', χαρά \"chara\" 'joy', and κακόν \"kakon\" 'evil'.\n\n\"Tall poppy syndrome\" is a cultural phenomenon where people of high status are resented, attacked, cut down, or criticized because they have been classified as better than their peers. This is similar to begrudgery, the resentment or envy of the success of a peer. If someone were to feel joy by the victim’s fall from grace, they would be experiencing \"Schadenfreude\".\n\nA \"Roman holiday\" is a metaphor from Byron's poem \"Childe Harold's Pilgrimage\", where a gladiator in ancient Rome expects to be \"butchered to make a Roman holiday\" while the audience would take pleasure from watching his suffering. The term suggests debauchery and disorder in addition to sadistic enjoyment.\n\n\"Morose delectation\" (\"delectatio morosa\" in Latin), meaning \"the habit of dwelling with enjoyment on evil thoughts\". was considered by the medieval church to be a sin. French writer Pierre Klossowski maintained that the appeal of sadism is morose delectation.\n\n\"Gloating\" is an English word of similar meaning, where \"gloat\" means \"to observe or think about something with triumphant and often malicious satisfaction, gratification, or delight\" (e.g., to gloat over an enemy's misfortune). Gloating is different from \"Schadenfreude\" in that it does not necessarily require malice (one may gloat to a friend about having defeated him in a game without ill intent), and that it describes an action rather than a state of mind (one typically gloats to the subject of the misfortune or to a third party). Also, unlike \"Schadenfreude\", where the focus is on another's misfortune, gloating often brings to mind inappropriately celebrating or bragging about one's own good fortune without any particular focus on the misfortune of others.\n\nPermutations of the concept of pleasure at another's unhappiness are: pleasure at another's happiness, displeasure at another's happiness, and displeasure at another's unhappiness. Words for these concepts are sometimes cited as antonyms to \"Schadenfreude\", as each is the opposite in some way.\n\nPleasure at another's happiness is described by the Buddhist concept of \"mudita\" or the concept of \"compersion\" in the polyamory community.\n\nDispleasure at another's happiness is involved in envy, and perhaps in jealousy. The recent coinage \"freudenschade\" similarly means sorrow at another's success.\n\nDispleasure at another's unhappiness is sympathy, pity, or compassion.\n\n\"Sadism\" is pleasure derived from the \"infliction\" of pain, whereas schadenfreude is pleasure on \"observing\" misfortune and in particular the fact that the other somehow deserved the misfortune.\n\nNeologisms and portmanteau words were coined from the word as early as 1993, when Lincoln Caplan, in his book \"Skadden: Power, Money, and the Rise of a Legal Empire\", used the word \"Skaddenfreude\" to describe the delight that competitors of Skadden Arps took in its troubles of the early 1990s. Others include \"spitzenfreude\", coined by \"The Economist\" to refer to the fall of Eliot Spitzer and \"Schadenford\", coined by \"Toronto Life\" in regard to Canadian politician Rob Ford.\n\nThe Book of Proverbs mentions an emotion similar to \"Schadenfreude\": \"Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not thine heart be glad when he stumbleth: Lest the LORD see it, and it displease him, and he turn away his wrath from him.\" (Proverbs 24:17–18, King James Version).\n\nIn the \"Nicomachean Ethics\", Aristotle used \"epikhairekakia\" (ἐπιχαιρεκακία in Greek) as part of a triad of terms, in which \"epikhairekakia\" stands as the opposite of \"phthonos\" (φθόνος), and \"nemesis\" (νέμεσις) occupies the mean. \"Nemesis\" is \"a painful response to another's undeserved good fortune\", while \"phthonos\" is a painful response to any good fortune, deserved or not. The \"epikhairekakos\" (ἐπιχαιρέκακος) person takes pleasure in another's ill fortune.\n\nLucretius characterises the emotion in an extended simile in \"De rerum natura\": \"Suave, mari magno turbantibus aequora ventis, e terra magnum alterius spectare laborem\", \"It is pleasant to watch from the land the great struggle of someone else in a sea rendered great by turbulent winds.\" The abbreviated Latin tag \"suave mare magno\" recalled the passage to generations familiar with the Latin classics.\n\nCaesarius of Heisterbach regards \"delight in the adversity of a neighbour\" as one of the \"daughters of envy ... which follows anger\" in his \"Dialogue on Miracles\".\n\nDuring the 17th century, Robert Burton wrote in his work \"The Anatomy of Melancholy\", \"Out of these two [the concupiscible and irascible powers] arise those mixed affections and passions of anger, which is a desire of revenge; hatred, which is inveterate anger; zeal, which is offended with him who hurts that he loves; and ἐπιχαιρεκακία, a compound affection of joy and hate, when we rejoice at other men's mischief, and are grieved at their prosperity; pride, self-love, emulation, envy, shame, &c., of which elsewhere.\"\n\nThe philosopher Arthur Schopenhauer mentioned \"Schadenfreude\" as the most evil sin of human feeling, famously saying \"To feel envy is human, to savor schadenfreude is diabolic.\"\n\nRabbi Harold S. Kushner in his book \"When Bad Things Happen to Good People\" describes \"Schadenfreude\" as a universal, even wholesome reaction that cannot be helped. \"There is a German psychological term, \"Schadenfreude\", which refers to the embarrassing reaction of relief we feel when something bad happens to someone else instead of to us.\" He gives examples and writes, \"[People] don't wish their friends ill, but they can’t help feeling an embarrassing spasm of gratitude that [the bad thing] happened to someone else and not to them.\"\n\nSusan Sontag's book \"Regarding the Pain of Others\", published in 2003, is a study of the issue of how the pain and misfortune of some people affects others, namely whether war photography and war paintings may be helpful as anti-war tools, or whether they only serve some sense of \"Schadenfreude\" in some viewers.\n\nPhilosopher and sociologist Theodor Adorno defined schadenfreude as \"... largely unanticipated delight in the suffering of another, which is cognized as trivial and/or appropriate.\"\n\nA \"New York Times\" article in 2002 cited a number of scientific studies of \"Schadenfreude\", which it defined as \"delighting in others' misfortune\". Many such studies are based on social comparison theory, the idea that when people around us have bad luck, we look better to ourselves. Other researchers have found that people with low self-esteem are more likely to feel \"Schadenfreude\" than are those who have high self-esteem.\n\nA 2003 study examined intergroup \"Schadenfreude\" within the context of sports, specifically an international football (soccer) competition. The study focused on the German and Dutch football teams and their fans. The results of this study indicated that the emotion of\"Schadenfreude\" is very sensitive to circumstances that make it more or less legitimate to feel such malicious pleasure towards a sports rival.\n\nA 2011 study by Cikara and colleagues using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) examined \"Schadenfreude\" among Boston Red Sox and New York Yankees fans, and found that fans showed increased activation in brain areas correlated with self-reported pleasure (ventral striatum) when observing the rival team experience a negative outcome (e.g., a strikeout). By contrast, fans exhibited increased activation in the anterior cingulate and insula when viewing their own team experience a negative outcome.\n\nA 2006 experiment about justice served suggests that men, but not women, enjoy seeing \"bad people\" suffer. The study was designed to measure empathy, by watching which brain centers are stimulated when subjects observed via fMRI see someone experiencing physical pain. Researchers expected that the brain's empathy center of subjects would show more stimulation when those seen as \"good\" got an electric shock, than would occur if the shock was given to someone the subject had reason to consider \"bad\". This was indeed the case, but for male subjects, the brain's pleasure centers also lit up when someone got a shock that the male thought was \"well-deserved\".\n\nBrain-scanning studies show that \"Schadenfreude\" is correlated with envy in subjects. Strong feelings of envy activated physical pain nodes in the brain's dorsal anterior cingulate cortex; the brain's reward centers, such as the ventral striatum, were activated by news that other people envied had suffered misfortune. The magnitude of the brain's \"Schadenfreude\" response could even be predicted from the strength of the previous envy response.\n\nA study conducted in 2009 provides evidence for people's capacity to feel \"Schadenfreude\" in response to negative events in politics. The study was designed to determine whether or not there was a possibility that events containing objective misfortunes might produce \"Schadenfreude\". It was reported in the study that the likelihood of experiencing feelings of \"Schadenfreude\" depends upon whether an individual's own party or the opposing party is suffering harm. This study suggests that the domain of politics is prime territory for feelings of \"Schadenfreude\", especially for those who identify strongly with their political party.\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "5870894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5870894", "title": "Shopzilla", "text": "Shopzilla\n\nShopzilla operates a portfolio of shopping web sites.\n\nIn June 2005, Shopzilla was acquired by The E. W. Scripps Company for $525 million and was part of its interactive media division.\n\nIn June 2011, Scripps sold Shopzilla to strategic private equity Symphony Technology Group for $165M.\n\nShopzilla operates websites serving consumers and retailers in the U.S., UK, French and German markets.\nShopzilla is headquartered in West Los Angeles, CA.\n\nShopzilla was previously Bizrate. In 2016, Shopzilla sold its division, Bizrate Insights, to Time Inc..\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11981071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11981071", "title": "Soundrangers", "text": "Soundrangers\n\nSoundrangers was the first online sound library of original sound effects and production music designed for specifically for interactive media such as video games, websites and interactive software. Soundrangers was also one of the first sound effects and music libraries to pioneer the audition and automated delivery of sound files over the internet. The Emmy Award-winning staff also specializes in custom sound design for interactive media with many major projects and top video game titles to their credit.\n\nEstablished in 1998 in Seattle, Washington by Barry Dowsett and Kevin Tone. Working together in the recording industry as sound designers and musicians, they recognized the need for audio content optimized for use in the emerging field of interactive and ‘new’ media. Initially providing custom sound design and Foley for interactive projects, within months Soundrangers expanded their focus to include the development of a library of original sound effects and production music designed and optimized to easily integrate into interactive media. This library was designed from the beginning for audition and download over the internet at Soundrangers.com, allowing interactive developers a resource for quickly finding and implementing audio content into their projects using content pre-rendered to the specifications of interactive development.\n\nAs one of the earliest companies delivering sound files over the internet, Soundrangers pioneered several features common today in the online delivery of audio content including the individual auditioning of sound files through its Adobe Flash interface and the automated delivery of content via download with selectable file format, sample and bit rate. All Soundrangers content is built and offered exclusively through the Soundrangers website creating a clear licensing path for the end user and ensuring the continuity of quality across the entire library.\n\nEl Tigre Miracle City Meltdown – Nickelodeon (web)\nLord of the Rings Tactics – Electronic Arts (psp)\nLemony Snicket ‘A Series of Unfortunate Events’ – Activision (pc)\nHarry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban – Electronic Arts (pc)\nPolar Express Adventure – Postopia (web)\nStrawberry Blasted Skyglide – Postopia (web)\nKiki’s Polar Icecaps – Postopia (web)\nKung Fu Chaos – Microsoft Games Studios (Xbox)\nStatic Shock – Cartoon Network (web)\nDora’s Carnival Adventure – Nickelodeon (web)\nMech Warrior 4 Vengeance – Microsoft Game Studios (Xbox)\nCombat Flight Sim 3 Battle for Europe - Microsoft Game Studios (pc)\nCombat Flight Sim 2 WWII Pacific Theater - Microsoft Game Studios (pc)\nCombat Flight Sim 1 WWII Europe Series - Microsoft Game Studios (pc)\nPhantom Dust - Microsoft Game Studios (Xbox)\nMicrosoft Flight Sim 2004 ‘A Century of Flight’ - Microsoft Game Studios (pc)\nMicrosoft Flight Sim 2000 - Microsoft Game Studios (pc)\nMicrosoft Flight Sim 1998 - Microsoft Game Studios (pc)\nVarious Card and Board games – MSN Game Zone (web)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279486", "title": "Special collections", "text": "Special collections\n\nIn library science, special collections (Spec. Coll. or S.C.) are libraries or library units that house materials requiring specialized security and user services.\n\nMaterials housed in special collections can be in any format (including rare books, manuscripts, photographs, archives, ephemera, and digital records), and are generally characterized by their artifactual or monetary value, physical format, uniqueness or rarity, and/or an institutional commitment to long-term preservation and access. They can also include association with important figures or institutions in history, culture, politics, sciences, or the arts. \n\nIndividual libraries or archival institutions determine for themselves what constitute their own special collections, resulting in a somewhat mutable definition. For research libraries, a special collections area or division can be a fundamental part of their mission. Some special collections are standalone institutions that are privately funded, such as the Newberry Library or the American Antiquarian Society while others are part of a larger institution, such as the Beinecke Library at Yale University. Many American university special collections grew out of the merging of rare book rooms and manuscripts departments in a university's library system.\n\nIn contrast to general (or circulating) libraries, the uniqueness of special collections means that they are not easily replaced (if at all) and therefore require a higher level of security and handling.\n\nThe primary function of a special collections division is to foster research by providing researchers access to items while ensuring their longevity. Many staff members involved with special collections have either advanced degrees or specialized training related to the collections for which they are responsible.\n\nItems in a special collection are usually stored in closed stacks (not directly accessible to library patrons) which contain noncirculating items, meaning that items cannot be loaned or otherwise removed from the premises. Access to materials is usually under supervision. Depending on the policies of an institution holding special collections, researchers may be asked to present identification cards, letters of reference, or other credentials to gain access.\n\nMost special collections are stored in areas in which the temperature, humidity, illumination, and other environmental conditions are carefully monitored to ensure the integrity of materials, and adequate security is provided to protect the materials from unauthorized access, theft, and vandalism.\n\nOffsite storage facilities have become increasingly popular among institutions holding special collections. Most libraries consider it their mandate to maintain acquisition of new collections, although the limitations of their physical plants may not be able to handle all that is acquired. Storing materials offsite allows flexibility in how libraries design and apportion their space and provides security for materials. The 2010 \"Taking Our Pulse\" report cites a survey in which 67% of responding institutions use offsite facilities, with another 5% in planning stages.\n\nSpecial reading rooms are often provided to minimize the risk to holdings while being consulted by patrons, which are sometimes monitored by library personnel who also provide reference assistance and relay requests for materials. Rules often apply to use of materials in order to protect against inadvertent damage; Writing implements which use ink are very commonly prohibited, as well as flash photography, use of mobile phones, and the presence of food and beverages. Protective gloves are sometimes required when consulting particularly delicate materials, photographs, and metal objects, and many libraries may require that books be read only while resting in special cradles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12714501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12714501", "title": "Sports Collectors Digest", "text": "Sports Collectors Digest\n\nSports Collectors Digest (SCD) is an American advertising weekly paper published at Iola, Wisconsin. The magazine provides an avenue through which sellers, traders and avid buyers of sports memorabilia may interact.\n\n\"SCD\" was started in 1973 by the Stommen family. In 1981 it was purchased by Krause Publications; Krause was acquired by F+W Media, its current publisher, in 2002.\n\nThe thickness of the magazine has varied throughout the years, and could arguably be seen as a reflection of the sports collecting market. For example, the July 13, 1990 issue contained 332 pages; however, the January 22, 2010 issue was only 36 pages long. Accounts of some athletes of the past and their activities festoon some of the pages. Other issues are written similarly. Pages are 11x14 inches (28x35.5 cm).\n\n\"SCD\" has long billed itself as \"The Voice of the Hobby\" and mixes hobby news with features, collecting stories, athlete profiles and opinion. The magazine is one of the few publications that have been successful in the sports card and memorabilia hobby. It's accompanying website offers content similar to the magazine, with an Auction Prices Realized database that is the only one of its kind in the hobby. The site also offers videos, blogs, features and a forum.\n\nClassified ads remain a staple of the magazine, although it is rare when classifieds fill a full page. Many collectors have relied on the \"SCD\" classifieds over the years to build and maintain their collections. Before the Internet, it was a major source for buyers and sellers in the hobby to network.\n\nThe magazine remains the sports collecting hobby's leading news publication with a loyal subscriber base. \"SCD\" has been effected by the trend toward selling collectibles on the Internet. Issues have shrunk, and the publication rarely features fresh editorial product. In recent issues, editors have recycled 10-year-old, previously-published interviews. Correspondents who provided columns and features were dropped for budgetary reasons and most of the limited editorial content is produced in-house.\n"}
{"id": "4433754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4433754", "title": "Striped marlin", "text": "Striped marlin\n\nThe striped marlin (\"Kajikia audax\") is a species of marlin found in tropical to temperate Indo-Pacific oceans not far from the surface. It is a desirable commercial and game fish with a record weight (in 1982) of and a maximum length of . The striped marlin' is a predator that hunts during the day in the top 100 m or so of the water column, often near the surface. One of their chief prey is sardines.\n\nIn 2010, Greenpeace International has added the striped marlin to its seafood red list. \n\n"}
{"id": "11754698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11754698", "title": "TSN Top 50 CFL Players", "text": "TSN Top 50 CFL Players\n\nThe TSN Top 50 CFL Players was a list of the greatest fifty Canadian Football League players, as selected by a panel of sixty former CFL players, then-current and former coaches, executives, and media members in 2006. The panel was assembled by sports television network TSN in partnership with the CFL. The results were announced as part of the 2006 Grey Cup festivities in Winnipeg, Manitoba.\n\nThe panel voted on a list of 185 players, including 119 named to the Canadian Football Hall of Fame on the basis of performance since 1945, and 66 others identified during a three-month research process. Brothers Doug Flutie and Darren Flutie bookended the top 50, while Damon Allen (professional gridiron football's all-time leading passer at the time; his record was surpassed on October 10, 2011 by Anthony Calvillo, who did not make the list), Milt Stegall (the CFL's all-time leader in touchdown receptions), Terry Vaughn (the CFL's all-time leader in receptions at the time; his record was beaten by Ben Cahoon in October 2010), and Joe Montford (perennial all-star defensive end), were still active when named to the list.\n\nThe remaining players were named to an honour roll.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12680354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12680354", "title": "The Epicure's Almanac", "text": "The Epicure's Almanac\n\nThe Epicure’s Almanac (also known as Diary of Good Living) contained a variety of original or valuable tips for daily life. These tips were gained as a result of the real life experience of people in their enjoyment of the 'good things in life'. The book was written in 1841 by Benson Earle Hill and published, in London, by How and Parsons. It is now a rare book.\n\nThis early nineteenth century book was intended for people who were not rich and could not really afford to go to restaurants. One useful tip was to add bicarbonate of soda to cider to make a 'poor mans champagne'. As a soldier, Hill gained a broad experience of life and hence this book includes recipes like Cheshire pork pie, North Wiltshire cheese, Nag’s-head cake, cooked tomatoes, kebabs, coconut and chutneys. The recipes demonstrate the influence that Britain’s colonies were beginning to exert on British lifestyle and cuisine.\nThe book was not a great commercial success and hence very few copies have survived.\n\n"}
{"id": "44291317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44291317", "title": "The Grantchester Mysteries", "text": "The Grantchester Mysteries\n\nThe Grantchester Mysteries is a series of crime fiction books of short stories by the British author James Runcie, beginning during the 1950s in Grantchester, a village near Cambridge in England. The books feature the clergyman-detective Canon Sidney Chambers, an Honorary Canon of Ely Cathedral.\n\nThe first volume in the series, \"Sidney Chambers and the Shadow of Death\", was published in 2012. The book comprises six short standalone mysteries. The second, \"Sidney Chambers and the Perils of the Night\", was published in 2013.\n\nThe books in the series include:\n\n\nA total of six books are planned. The series was inspired by James Runcie's father, the former Archbishop of Canterbury, Robert Runcie.\n\nIn 2014, some of \"The Grantchester Mysteries\" short stories were turned into an ITV drama titled \"Grantchester\". Filmed on location in Grantchester, Cambridge, and London, the initial six-part series was shown in the UK in Autumn 2014. A second series was released in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "28536765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28536765", "title": "Tip sheet", "text": "Tip sheet\n\nA tip sheet is a publication containing the latest information, tips or predictions for a particular industry. Tip sheets are commonly published to impart business or stock market information, music industry songwriter leads, and tips on horse racing results.\n\nIn the financial sector tip sheet newsletters offer investors' advice on stocks. In the UK, tip sheets are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) since 2010 to prevent malpractice. In prior to 2010, Financial Service Authority (FSA) also regulated.\n\nMedia tip sheets are typically lists of tips on how to do something, or solve a particular problem, that are printed in newspapers and magazines and appear on television. An example tip sheet might be titled \"8 Tax Tips the IRS Wishes You Didn't Know\". They offer their creators free publicity and provide media outlets with free ready-made content, which they can reprint verbatim.\n\nA music tip sheet, or song tip sheet, is a research service that regularly publishes information about which recording artists and film and TV projects are looking for music, along with the appropriate contact information. They are used by songwriters, publishers and record producers, but most commonly by new songwriters looking to gain a foothold in the industry. Songwriter, publisher and \"respected music industry veteran\" Eric Beall said that \"If I were going to spend money on anything when I started out as a songwriter, other than the actual demos, I would put it into tip sheets.\"\n\nEstablished music tip sheets include \"RowFax\", the MusicRow publication, and SongQuarters.\n"}
{"id": "39385858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39385858", "title": "Totoyi v Ncuka", "text": "Totoyi v Ncuka\n\nIn Totoyi v Ncuka, an important case in the South African law of lease, the parties had agreed that the amount of rent after the first four years was to rise gradually from two pounds and ten shillings per annum, \"but not to exceed 4 pounds per annum.\" The court held that the formula was too vague to be converted into a sum of money.\n\nThe case of \"Raner and Bernstin v Armitage\" must be distinguished from this one, as there a lessee had the option to renew, one of the terms of the option being that \"the [...] rental shall not exceed the sum of 75 pounds per month.\" The court in \"Raner\" held that this formula was adequate, because it meant that the lessee had the right to renew at the rental of 75 pounds per month.\n\nThe distinction between the two cases lies in the fact that, in \"Totoyi\", the formula stipulated an indefinite period, during which indefinite amounts would be added, whereas in the second the formula referred to a precise moment in time (the date of renewal) and allowed the whole amount of the rise to take place at that time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21738646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21738646", "title": "William Harrison Ainsworth bibliography", "text": "William Harrison Ainsworth bibliography\n\nThis is a list of works by the English historical novelist William Harrison Ainsworth (1805–1882).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54653345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54653345", "title": "William Kolodney", "text": "William Kolodney\n\nWilliam Kolodney (1899 – January 18, 1976) was a Russian-born American cultural educator and program director for two major New York City institutions, the 92nd Street Y and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.\n\nKolodney was born in Minsk, and his family moved to America when he was 4 years old. He attended New York University as an undergraduate and earned a master's degree and a Doctorate from Columbia University. His dissertation was based on his work at the 92nd Street Y, describing its transformation during his tenure into \"a major arts institution\".\n\nKolodney created the educational program for the YMHA in Pittsburgh in 1926. In 1935, he joined the 92nd street Y in New York as Educational Director, instituting a wide-ranging educational program. He made the \"Y\" a center for chamber music, poetry readings, and dance performances. He was guided by idealistic principles. He decided \"not to popularize or glamorize knowledge through publicity methods designed to attract large numbers.\" At the same time, he felt that fees for \"Y\" programs \"should be small enough to enable the clerical or the salaried worker with a modest income to enroll in any activity which might meet his needs and interests.\"\n\nKolodney felt that music was a way to educate the emotions and that each person \"responds differently to every sound, from the wind in the trees to a Shostakovich symphony.\" He presented great musicians such as Rudolf Serkin, Myra Hess, Gregor Piatigorsky, Erica Morini, and Joseph Hoffman as well as the Budapest String Quartet in annual series. He established the Y School of Music under the direction of Abraham Wolf Binder, who believed that it was more important to teach a child how to listen to music than to play an instrument.\n\nIn 1936 Kolodney invited Martha Graham to give a dance recital as part of the new Dance Center at the \"Y\". During the next ten years she performed there as a solo recitalist or with her group. Other dancers or faculty at the \"Y\" have included Doris Humphrey, Charles Weidman, Hanya Holm, Anna Sokolow, Agnes de Mille, Paul Taylor, Jose Limon and Alvin Ailey among others. When Ailey received New York's Handel Medallion, he said he could not have formed his company without the support of Kolodney. In 1974, Agnes de Mille said \"No other institution in the United States has done more for American dance. Without William Kolodney, there simply was no place to go. He gave us a stage and an intelligent audience. He taught us to hope.\"\n\nKolodney created The Poetry Center at the \"Y\" in 1939 \"to meet the needs of the very few persons in New York to whom poetry offers the theological, ethical and esthetic equivalents of traditional religion\". Poetry was Kolodney's greatest love: \"At the center we had the greatest poets, Eliot, Cummings, Stevens. Eliot turned down other institutions to read at the 'Y'\". His favorite poet was Edward Arlington Robinson. In 1953 Kolodney arranged for the Poetry Center to present the first NY performance of Dylan Thomas's \"Under Milkwood\". Kolodney attempted to compile a volume of \"Y\" Poetry Center poets' responses, including a letter from T.S. Eliot, to the anti-Semitic 1952 Slánský trial in Soviet Czechoslovakia, but the volume was never released. \n\nWhen he retired from the 92nd Street Y after 35 years in 1969, a \"New York Times\" editorial noted that he had made the \"Y\" \"the source of some of the most varied and stimulating artistic fare in the nation. His view was ecumenical; the person was always submerged in the artist. He made the \"Y\" a stay against confusion, a place where for a moment all that is harmonious, stable, beautiful comes to rest.\"\n\nIn 1954, while still Education Director at the 'Y', Kolodney created a music program at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The Met had recently renovated the Grace Rainey Rogers Auditorium to feature arts programs. The first season of concerts presented pianist Arthur Rubinstein, violinist Isaac Stern, folk singer Burl Ives, and contralto Marian Anderson. Three years later, Kolodney initiated a subscription series of lectures on art for the museum. Art historian Leo Steinberg launched the program with 10 lectures on \"Change and Permanence in Western Art\". Kolodney continued to head the Concerts & Lectures series at the Met until 1968.\n\nKolodney died in Mamaroneck, New York. His children were Nathan, David and Rima.\n\n"}
