{"id": "1914328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1914328", "title": "Adelbert Ames Jr.", "text": "Adelbert Ames Jr.\n\nAdelbert Ames Jr. (August 19, 1880 – July 3, 1955) was an American scientist who made contributions to physics, physiology, ophthalmology, psychology, and philosophy. He pioneered the study of physiological optics at Dartmouth College, serving as a research professor, then as director of research at the Dartmouth Eye Institute. He conducted important research into aspects of binocular vision, including cyclophoria and aniseikonia. Ames is perhaps best known for constructing illusions of visual perception, most notably the Ames room and the Ames window. He was a leading light in the Transactionalist School of psychology and also made contributions to social psychology.\n\nAdelbert Ames Jr. was born in 1880 in Lowell, Massachusetts. His father, Adelbert Ames, was a general in the Union Army during the Civil War and Reconstruction Governor and Senator from Mississippi; his mother, Blanche Butler Ames, was the daughter of U.S. General Benjamin F. Butler, a controversial military leader, politician, and unsuccessful candidate for the U.S. presidency. Apart from his military and administrative service, General Ames obtained several U.S. patents for pencil sharpeners and other mechanical devices. Ames' sister Blanche Ames Ames was a woman's rights suffragist, and his brother Butler Ames was a politician and Army officer during the Spanish–American War. His son, Adelbert Ames III (1921-2018), was the Charles Anthony Pappas Professor of Neuroscience, Emeritus, at Harvard University. In research papers, Adelbert Ames Jr. is commonly cited as Adelbert Ames II, to prevent his being confused with his father or his son.\n\nAmes attended Philips Academy, Andover, Massachusetts, then went to Harvard College, where he earned a law degree, and where his most influential teachers were George Santayana and William James (whose daughter he was also engaged to, but did not marry). After practicing law for a few years, Ames abandoned it to become a painter. For several years, while collaborating with his sister, Blanche Ames (who was also a painter), the two of them tried to determine if the quality of visual art could be improved by the scientific study of vision. Ames set about improving his knowledge of the optical components of the eye, assuming that once he had mastered them, he would return to painting. As it was, his studies mastered him and Ames made vision his life's work.\n\nAmes went to Clark University in 1914 to study physiological optics, making enough of an impression to be made one of the eighteen founding members of the Optical Society of America in 1916. When the U.S. entered World War I in 1917, he served briefly as a captain in the aviation service, then as the overseer of a machine shop in which prototypes for instruments were developed. While in the army he continued his studies of optics, in part because one of the soldiers in that shop (with whom he became a friend and collaborator) was Charles Proctor, professor of physics at Dartmouth College.\n\nAfter the war, Ames went to Dartmouth College in 1919 to work with Proctor. They decided to construct a large-scale model of the human eye using glass for its various layers, humors, and lens. In 1921, this work led to Ames' first published scientific paper, the award of an honorary Master of Arts degree, and his election as professor of research in a new department of Physiological Optics.\n\nIn 1923, Ames began recruiting staff of what was to become the Dartmouth Eye Institute. From Eastman Kodak Company he recruited lens designer Gordon H. Gliddon. More staff joined the department over the years, including Kenneth N. Ogle, with whom Ames worked on stereopsis and binocular vision. He was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1928.\n\nIn 1935 the Department of Physiological Optics became the Dartmouth Eye Institute under the overall directorship of Alfred Bielschowsky, with Ames serving as its director of research. Ames garnered support for it from various sources including John D. Rockefeller Jr., the Rockefeller Foundation, and the American Optical Company. The institute at various times employed between thirty and forty staff, including researchers, and clinicians who examined patients' eyes and made eyeglasses.\n\nResearch at the institute concentrated on binocular vision, including cyclophoria (the tendency of the eyes to rotate in opposite directions in their sockets) and aniseikonia (in which each eye has a differently sized retinal image of the same object). This latter defect could be corrected by lenses that restored the usual equality of image sizes.\n\nIn 1940, Bielschowsky died unexpectedly. Hermann Burian, an ophthalmologist, worked briefly as acting director, and then was relieved by Walter Lancaster. He was not able to exert the influence he wanted, resigning in 1942. On 10 May 1947 the institute was closed.\n\nAmes is perhaps best known for his eponymous room, window, and chair. These were called \"equivalent configurations\" by Ittelson (1952), defined as \"configurations [in which] identical 'incoming messages' can come from different external physical arrangements. In the absence of other information... equivalent configurations will be perceived as identical, no matter how different they be physically\" (p. 55).\n\nAmes also developed the concept of \"transactional ambiguity\" holding that \"mental set\" or expectation could materially affect one's perception of visual and other stimuli, as with the Ames trapezoid. This hypothesis extended the impact of mental set from the widely believed impact on one's conclusions about stimuli (the eye witness phenomenon) to actual perception of the stimuli itself. If true, it calls seriously into question the value of eye witness reports even by individuals with no prejudices about their observations. In 1941 Ames began to make notes in the morning on his transactional analysis of perception. In 1960 his collaborator Hadley Cantril published an edited selection from these notes, with a Preface, and included Ames' correspondence with John Dewey.\n\nIn 1954, Ames was awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws by Dartmouth. In 1955 he won the Tillyer Medal, awarded by the Optical Society of America. Ames died on July 3, 1955, and was buried at the Dartmouth Cemetery. His name, and that of his siblings, is also inscribed on the gravestone of his parents at the Hildreth family cemetery in Lowell.\n\nIn the address given on the presentation of the Tillyer Medal, the president of the society listed 38 books and scientific papers Ames wrote, and 21 patents awarded to Ames.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56723961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56723961", "title": "American Mosquito Control Association", "text": "American Mosquito Control Association\n\nThe American Mosquito Control Association is an American nonprofit organization and the world's leading organization dedicated to mosquito control. It was established in Trenton, New Jersey in 1935 as the Eastern Association of Mosquito Control Workers, obtaining its current name in 1944. Currently, it is based in Mount Laurel, New Jersey. It publishes the \"Journal of the American Mosquito Control Association\".\n\n"}
{"id": "52918699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52918699", "title": "Andermann syndrome", "text": "Andermann syndrome\n\nAndermann syndrome, also known as agenesis of corpus callosum with neuronopathy (ACCPN) and Charlevoix disease, among other names, is a very rare neurodegenerative genetic disorder that damages the nerves used to control muscles and related to sensation and is often associated with agenesis of the corpus collosum.\n\nIt was first described by Eva Andermann et al. in 1972.\n\nSymptoms begin in infancy and include:\nThe inheritance pattern is autosomal recessive. Several genes have been associated with the disorder, including SLC12A6.\n\nAutopsy examination of 8 cases has shown both developmental and degenerative neuropathologic features in this disease, consistent with clinical duality as both a neurodevelopmental and neurodegenerative disorder. \n\nIn the central nervous system, accompanying the hypotonia at birth is hypoplasia of the corticospinal tracts. Another developmental feature is seen in the corpus callosum, which varies from absent to hypoplastic. The anterior commissure is almost always absent, but occasionally hypoplastic. A bundle of Probst can be found running antero-posterior rather than crossing the midline. The axonal damage due to the channel deficiency can cause a reactive axonal overgrowth leading to small tumor-like growths, or tumorlets, called axonomas, or balls of aberrant axons. Damaged axons can also show a sign of inhibition of axonal transport, forming axonal spheroids. These spheroids can be throughout the cerebral hemispheres, explaining the psychotic symptoms by disconnection of the brain from itself by axonal functional disruption. \n\nIn the Peripheral nervous system, the disease is more severe. While most nervous system diseases affect either CNS or PNS, this disease affects both, but it is the changes in the peripheral nervous system that lead to death. This occurs by axonal disease paralyzing the skeletal muscles, including the respiratory muscles as a result of axonal damage in peripheral nerves. Changes in the axons are more severe in the PNS than CNS and under the electron microscope, some axons look necrotic, by virtue of containing mitochondrial flocculent densities and other irreversible changes. The lack of innervation of the body musculature during development gives rise to small body weights, often below 40 kilograms, remarkable in view of the preserved brain weights.\nThere is currently no cure, but some symptoms may be treated such as neuroleptics for the psychiatric problems.\n\nThe prognosis is poor. Patients are usually wheelchair bound by their 20s and die by their 30s.\nThe prevalence rate has been estimated to be less than 1/1,000,000 worldwide. However, it is much more common in the French-Canadian population of the Saguenay and Lac-St-Jean regions of Quebec, Canada, where it has a frequency of about 1 in 2100 in live births, and a carrier rate of 1 in 23.\n\n"}
{"id": "58831897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58831897", "title": "Ann MacKinnon", "text": "Ann MacKinnon\n\nAnn MacKinnon, also Annie P. MacKinnon, (1879-1953) was born in Roag, in the Isle of Skye. During the First World War she joined the French Flag Nursing Corps and served in France. For this she was awarded the French military award, the Croix de Guerre. Following the war she remained in France to work before moving to the USA and working for the Frontier Nursing Service in Kentucky.\n\nMacKinnon was born on the 4 March 1879 in Roag, Isle of Skye. Her parents were John MacKinnon and Georgina Urquhart. MacKinnon was educated at Dunvegan Primary School before moving to the central belt to train as a nurse. She spent four years at the School of Nursing in Ayr Hospital then went on to gain the Queen's District Nursing and Midwifery qualification in Edinburgh. MacKinnon worked as a probationer nurse in Braehead Cottage Hospital, Dumbarton from 1901.\n\nIn 1914, Ann MacKinnon joined the French Flag Nursing Corps and soon after travelled to France as the First World War intensified. MacKinnon and the other 'British Nurses in France' were on the Front Line. In 1918 MacKinnon was awarded the Croix de Guerre for bravery during the Third Battle of the Aisne. This was recorded by The Times newspaper and The British Journal of Nursing: \"Following is the citation of the French army conferring the Croix de Guerre on Miss Annie Mackinnon, a British nurse attached to the French Flag Nursing coprs. A nurse who under the difficult circumstances of the withdrawal of the ambulance under enemy fire continued to attend the sick and wounded up to the last minute with remarkable courage and thus demonstrating the three years that she has devoted herself to the French soldiers.\"Following the war MacKinnon remained in France working in Marseille and Paris for the Rockefeller Foundation which was part of the relief effort sending food supplies to the European continent. Her main role was to educate a group of French girls about nursing, including tuberculosis and infant welfare.\n\nMacKinnon travelled to America on the Mormacswan, arriving in New York in 1928. She worked in Beech Fork Nursing Centre and the Hayden Hospital, Kentucky. Mary Breckinridge appointed MacKinnon superintendent of Hayden Hospital in 1929. MacKinnon held this post until 1940, when she travelled to Europe during the Second World War, returning to the USA and the role in 1948. Hayden Hospital was part of the newly created the Frontier Nursing Service which included midwifes in their team of public health services and covered a population of close to ten thousand people. The Frontier Nursing Service (FNS) established six outposts in the Appalachian Mountains in eastern North America. The FNS was established by Mary Breckinridge after she travelled to the Highlands and Islands to see how healthcare is provided in rural locations. Her goal was to replicate the Highlands and Islands Medical and Nursing Service model in the Appalachian area of America. MacKinnon became known as Ann of Appalachia and rode a mule called Tenacity to work.\n\nIn 1930, along with Breckinridge, MacKinnon was a founding member of The Kentucky State Association of Midwives. This was the first association of midwives in the USA.\n\nAnn MacKinnon died of a heart attack on 6 February 1953 in Hayden, Kentucky. She is buried at Wendover, Kentucky.\n\nAnn MacKinnon was awarded the Croix de Guerre for bravery during the First World War.\n"}
{"id": "12139510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12139510", "title": "Breast shell", "text": "Breast shell\n\nBreast shells are hollow, lightweight plastic disks worn inside the brassiere to help correct flat or inverted nipples either in preparation for or during breastfeeding. Also known as milk cups, breast cups, breast shields, or Woolwich shields, they can also be used to ease sensitive nipples or collect milk when the baby has not finished the teat. Breast shells function by applying gentle but firm pressure to the region surrounding the nipple to stretch underlying adhesions and draw out the nipple. Nipple shields may be confused with breast shells, but shields are intended for use during the act of breastfeeding, whereas breast shells are worn in preparation for or after breastfeeding.\n\nA breast shell is composed of inner and outer sections which snap together and enclose the nipple. The inner section, which encircles the nipple and puts pressure on the surrounding breast tissue, is often lined with soft material such as silicone. The rigid outer section separates the nipple from the bra and clothing and leaves open a space which can collect milk. The shell is slightly concave to conform to the shape of the breast. Despite this, it can still sometimes be visible under tight clothing. Shells come apart for washing, which should be done frequently as the shell also tends to make the mother's breast sweat, which can increase bacteria growth and cause irritation. \n\nIf the shell is used to help ready the mother for breastfeeding, this is best done during pregnancy because the shell can increase leaking of breast milk or colostrum. On the other hand, some wear breast shells to collect leaking milk while nursing the baby on the other breast. If worn to correct inverted or flat nipples, the shells are typically worn during the third trimester for up to 10 hours daily as the mother's comfort dictates.\n\nSome research suggests that breast shells used on inverted nipples may either hinder or have no effect on the mother's ability to breastfeed successfully. One study of women with inverted or non-protractile nipples found no statistically significant difference in breastfeeding success between using breast shields and doing nothing.\n\n"}
{"id": "38972404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38972404", "title": "CARTaGENE biobank", "text": "CARTaGENE biobank\n\nCARTaGENE is a population based cohort based on an ongoing and long-term health study of 40, 000 men and women in Québec. It is a regional cohort member of the Canadian Partnership for Tomorrow Project. The project's core mandate is to identify the genetic and environmental causes of common chronic diseases affecting the Québec population. The overall objective from a public health perspective is to develop personalized medicine and public policy initiatives targeting high-risk groups. \nCARTaGENE is under the scientific direction of Sébastien Jacquemont, M.D., Ekaterini Kritikou, Ph.D. and Philippe Broët, M.D. Ph.D., of the Sainte-Justine Children’s Hospital University Health Center. \nBased in Montréal Québec, Canada, CARTaGENE is operated under the infrastructure of the Sainte-Justine Children’s Hospital University Health Center and has seen funding from Genome Canada, the Canadian Foundation for Innovation and Génome Québec and the Canadian Partnership Against Cancer (CPAC) since 2007 among other sources. The program was initially founded by Professors Claude Laberge and Bartha Knoppers, and developed through two phases of participant recruitment under a scientific director.\n\nThe CARTaGENE cohort was set up to recruit men and women aged 40–69 years old from Québec representing an age range most at risk for developing chronic diseases, including cardiovascular disease, metabolic disorders like diabetes mellitus and cancer among others. Taking place between August 2009 and October 2010, 20 007 participants were enrolled in its first phase of recruitment (Phase A) and between December 2012 and February 2015 a new wave of recruitment (Phase B) has enrolled an additional 20 000 participants. The participants were randomly selected and tracked based on their files in the governmental health administrative databases (RAMQ-Régie de l’Assurance Maladie du Québec). Participants were also selected to be representative of 1% of the metropolitan areas of Québec, specifically Montreal, Québec city, Sherbrooke and the Saguenay. Because of administrative linkage between the RAMQ and the CHU Sainte-Justine, participants can be passively followed for the next 50 years making it one of the longest and largest ongoing population studies in the world. \nInformation packages about the project were first sent by mail and potential participants were contacted by telephone to enroll and schedule visits to one of the clinical assessment sites. \nMoreover, CARTaGENE is part of a Canada-wide cohort collecting samples across the country whose methods were applied in the design of the five cohorts within the Canadian Partnership for Tomorrow Project (CPTP).\n\nDetailed clinical chemistry and complete blood counts for each of the participants was collected. Detailed lipid profiles, Hba1c, bone density and creatinine were also collected. Blood collection was designed such that DNA and RNA can be extracted for future use allowing for population level gene expression analysis and genotyping. Storage conditions are also optimized for proteomics and lipidomics. The CARTaGENE project has a Systems Genomics program to identify critical events associated with a number of cardiovascular related endophenotypes . It is developing integrative technologies and approaches to capture esingle-nucleotide polymorphisms (eSNPs) associated with endophenotypes.\n\nTypical studies include population-based longitudinal studies. Researchers may try to evaluate the contribution of a particular lifestyle, environmental and genetic factor and a chosen endophenotype. The use of endophenotypes facilitates the integration of multiple levels of data painting a more realistic portrait of gene-environment interactions influencing particular endophenotypes\n\nThere was an initial pilot study done under the direction of Professor Bartha Knoppers (McGill University) and Professor Claude Laberge (Laval University) that involved 223 participants who responded to a questionnaire based on the P3G DataSHaPER model. The scales used in the questionnaires were developed and revised by more than 30 experts from various fields and are widely used. These included the Patient Health questionnaire, the General Anxiety Scale, the Job Content and International Physical Activity Questionnaire IPAQ.\n\nBeginning in 2009, a total of 12 assessment sites across the province were established for clinical and physical assessments. Following initial phone contact, participants were invited to come to the assessment site and sign a consent form. They were asked to complete a self-administered wikt:socio-demographic and lifestyle questionnaire and an interviewer-administered health questionnaire. A genealogical questionnaire was also included for completion online. Non-invasive measurements were taken for all participants that included basic measurements such as weight, height, blood pressure. Blood, saliva and urine were collected and preserved at the Biobanque Génome Québec and the affiliated University Hospital Center in Chicoutimi (Biobanque GQ-CAURC) for future use. Surveys about nutrition are also included and residential information, occupational history and food frequency data questionnaires are administered. Ending in February 2015, a total of over 40,000 participants were recruited to the CARTaGENE program and data is accessible through the Canadian Partnership for Tomorrow Program portal \n\n\n\nCARTaGENE complies with all local, national, international laws and ethical norms. These include the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms, the Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms, the Civil Code of Québec, \nthe Declaration of Helsinki-World Medical Association (revised in 2008), the Universal Declaration on the Human Genome and Human Rights (1997) and the Universal Declaration on Bioethics and Human Rights: UNESCO (2005), (UNESCO) among others. CARTaGENE also complies with recommendations by the \"Plan d’action ministériel en éthique de la recherche et en intégrité scientifique from the MSSS (1998)\", the \"Guide d’élaboration de normes de gestion des banques de données also from the MSSS (2004)\" and the \"Politique de la recherche avec des êtres humains (2004)\" among others.\n\nCARTaGENE is monitored by the Research ethics Board of the Sainte-Justine University Health Center. It is also under the supervision of the Information Access Commission (the CAI). This organization authorizes the transfer of information from the RAMQ to the call center that contacts participants and all personal information held by CARTaGENE is subject to surveillance by the CAI.\n\nParticipant medical history is maintained at a centralized governmental database (RAMQ) allowing researchers to track these individuals for the duration of the study and monitor all medical events, prescriptions of drugs and deaths. The personal information connecting medical records to the patient identification undergoes de-identification and is coded by CARTaGENE, but handled and managed by the RAMQ ensuring patient confidentiality.\n\nResearchers can request access to the CARTaGENE data through the Canadian Partnership for Tomorrow Project Portal. Researchers must submit an application and undergo evaluation by an independent Sample and Data Access Committee (SDAC). eThe dataset is available to researchers in industry and academic institutions, nationally and internationally. Applications detailing their project proposal are a requirement for review by an independent committee, the Sample and Data Access Committee (SDAC). The scientific management of CARTaGENE along with the SDAC determines if data or results should need to be returned to the project. Submission for access to the dataset is done directly online.\n\nHealth reassessments will take place regularly, using web-based questionnaires in the coming years. Patients may be tracked for up to 50 years based on their linkage to governmental health administrative databases.\n\nCARTaGENE has been designed such that its infrastructure including the collection of samples, measurements of biological variables and the storage procedures can be harmonized with other international large-scale cohorts via the Public Population Project in Genomics (P3G) platform. The P3G facilitates the work of biobankers and improves collaboration throughout the international human genomics research community.\nA nationwide effort is underway to collect samples from participants across Canada, with CaG representing one of five cohorts within the Canadian Partnership for Tomorrow (CPTP). CPTP is recruiting 300 000 participants to create a national databank on population health whose core mandate is to develop strategic initiatives leading to policy change to address the growing impact of chronic disease in a growing Canadian population.\n\nThe public was generally receptive to the creation of the CARTaGENE project and an independent study reported on the consultations held with members of the public. The main concerns raised were about safeguarding medical records and confidentiality, respect for individual transparency, the donor's right to feedback and governance.\n\nLocal and national media have reported on CARTaGENE.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7074066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7074066", "title": "Capital punishment in Taiwan", "text": "Capital punishment in Taiwan\n\nCapital punishment is a legal penalty in Taiwan, officially the Republic of China. The death penalty can be imposed for murder, treason, drug trafficking, terrorism and especially serious cases of robbery, rape and kidnapping and many other serious offenses, such as piracy and also for military offences, such as desertion. \n\nBefore 2000, Taiwan had a relatively high execution rate when strict laws were still in effect in the harsh political environment. However, after controversial cases during the 1990s and the changing attitudes of some officials towards abolition, the number of executions dropped significantly, with only three in 2005 and none between 2006 and 2009. Executions resumed in 2010. According to the poll numbers, more than 80% of Taiwanese people support maintaining the use of capital punishment.\n\nThe (陸海空軍刑法) rules the following crimes eligible for the death penalty on military personnel:\n\n\nThe Republic of China Criminal Code () rules the following offenses eligible for the death penalty, although none of them carries a mandatory death penalty:\n\nArticle 63 of the Criminal Code also rules that the death penalty cannot be imposed on offenders aged under 18 or above 80 for any offenses.\n\nOther special laws which rule non-compulsory capital offenses:\n\nIn practice, since 2003, almost all death sentences and executions have been restricted to murder-related offenses. The last execution solely for crimes other than homicide took place in October 2002 in the case of a Pingtung County fisherman who trafficked 295 kg heroin in 1993.\n\nThe following two laws previously gave certain offenses a mandatory death penalty and have historically made a significant contribution to the numbers of people executed:\n\n\nA ROC judicial execution requires a final sentence from the Supreme Court of the Republic of China and a death order signed by the Minister of Justice. After the Supreme Court issues a final death sentence, the case is transferred to the Ministry of Justice, where the Minister of Justice issues a final secret execution date. Generally, the Ministry of Justice will allow some time for the condemned person to meet his or her family, arrange for any religious rites and even get married before the execution. Should any new evidence or procedural flaw that may influence the verdict be discovered during this period, the condemned prisoner may make a plea to the Ministry of Justice. This may then delay the death warrant, if the Solicitor General or Supreme Prosecutors' Office makes a special appeal to the Supreme Court for retrial. However, such cases are very rare: to date only one condemned prisoner avoided capital punishment in this manner. The President of Republic of China can also award clemency, but so far only President Chiang Kai-shek ever exercised this legal right on an individual prisoner, once in 1957. President Lee Teng-hui also ordered two nationwide commutations in 1988 and 1991 in which two sentences were commuted from death to life imprisonment.\n\nThe death order from the Minister of Justice is received and performed by the High Prosecutors' offices, so executions are carried out inside the detention centers of the five cities having a High Court: Taipei, Taichung, Tainan, Kaohsiung and Hualien. Like Japan, ROC death row inmates are kept in detention centers but not prisons, and under harsher conditions than general prisoners. They are housed two inmates to a cell (or solitary imprisonment in cases of misbehavior or violence). The practice of shackling prisoners 24 hours a day has been reported to be no longer in effect, but prisoners on death row are only allowed to leave the cell for a half-hour a day for exercise. Prisoners are allowed to read censored newspapers and books as well as practice religious activities with approved religious personnel.\n\nExecutions are carried out by shooting using a handgun aimed at the heart from the back, or aimed at the brain stem under the ear if the prisoner consents to organ donation. The execution time used to be 5:00 a.m., but was changed to 9:00 p.m. in 1995 to reduce officials' workload. It was changed again to 7:30 p.m. in 2010. Executions are performed in secret: nobody is informed beforehand, including the condemned. The execution chamber is located in the prison complex. The condemned is brought to the chamber by car and pays respect to the statue of Ksitigarbha located outside the chamber before entering. Before the execution, the prisoner is brought to a special court next to the execution chamber to have his or her identity confirmed and any last words recorded. The prisoner is then brought to the execution chamber and served a last meal (which includes a bottle of kaoliang wine). The condemned prisoner is then injected with strong anaesthetic to render him or her completely senseless, laid flat on the ground, face down, and shot. The executioner then burns votive bank notes for the deceased before carrying away the corpse. It is customary for the condemned to place a NT$500 or 1000 banknote in their leg irons as a tip for the executioners.\n\nAfter the execution, the High Prosecutors' Office will issue the official announcement of the execution. Although the Ministry of Justice has studied other methods including hanging and lethal injection since the early 1990s, execution by shooting (performed by local bailiffs or military policemen) is the only execution method used in the ROC currently (including military executions).\n\nROC military sentences and executions are administered only by the Ministry of National Defense and have no connection with the Ministry of Justice. Military sentences and executions are carried out in military courts and prisons across the island as well as Penghu, Kinmen and Matsu. Unlike the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of National Defense does not release detailed information on executions, and so little information is available.\n\nThe ROC's Ministry of Justice annually publishes detailed statistics on each year's executions, including the executed person's name, age, sex, crime, nationality, education, etc. The numbers of executions since 1987 are listed below:\n\nThe execution tally was at its height in the late 1980s and early 1990s when the martial law had just been lifted and social order was destabilized. The strict Act for the Control and Punishment of Banditry resulted in the execution of many prisoners.\n\nAmong the executed were a small number of foreign nationals from China, the Philippines, Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore. They were executed in Taiwan for kidnapping, murder or drug trafficking offenses.\n\nThere are accounts of organs being removed from executed prisoners while they were still medically alive.\n\nAccording to the Death Penalty Procedural Rules (執行死刑規則) of Taiwan, executees who are willing to donate their organs are shot in the head. Twenty minutes after the execution, an examination is conducted to verify the death of the condemned person. Prisoners donating organs are sent to hospitals for organ collection after completion of the execution is confirmed.\n\nAccording to the Human Organ Transplantation Act (人體器官移植條例) of Taiwan, an organ donor can only donate after being judged brain-dead by a medical doctor. When a ventilator is in use, there must be an observation period of 12 hours for the first evaluation and a four-hour period for the second evaluation to reach a judgement of brain death.\n\nIn Taiwan, there have been cases of executees being sent to hospitals for organ collection without legal confirmation of brain death, leading to accusations that human vivisection for organ collection and transplantation is in practice in Taiwan. There was a case in 1991 in which an executee was found to be still breathing unaided when being prepared for organ collection in the Taipei Veterans General Hospital. The executee was sent back to the execution ground to complete the execution. This case caused the Taipei Veterans General Hospital to refuse organ collection of executees for eight years.\n\nIn 2015, Taiwan banned the use of organs from executed prisoners.\n\nIn March 1991 a Hsichih couple, Wu Ming-han (吳銘漢) and Yeh Ying-lan (葉盈蘭), were found robbed and brutally murdered inside their apartment. In August 1991 police arrested their neighbor Wang Wen-hsiao (王文孝), then serving in the ROC Marine Corps, based on Wang's bloody fingerprint found at the scene. He confessed to the murder after investigators discovered evidence of him breaking in and burglarizing the house, but police doubted he could have killed two adults so easily and brutally without help. Under torture, Wang confessed to help from three accomplices who lived in the same community—Su Chien-ho (蘇建和), Chuang Lin-hsun (莊林勳) and Liu Bin-lang (劉秉郎). These four young men further confessed that they gang raped Yeh Ying-lan during their break-in, but the autopsy of Yeh's body showed no traces of sexual assault.\n\nWang Wen-hsiao was court-martialed and speedily executed in January 1992. The other three defendants were prosecuted under the \"Act for the Control and Punishment of Banditry\", which stipulated compulsory death sentences for their crimes if found guilty. During their trial the defendants repeatedly claimed they were forced to make false confessions under torture and were not guilty, but the judges did not believe them.\n\nIn February 1995, the Supreme Court of the Republic of China found against the defendants. According to procedure, the three should then have been executed by shooting as soon as possible, but Minister of Justice Ma Ying-jeou refused to sign their death warrants and returned the whole case back to the Supreme Court in hope of a retrial, citing shortcomings such as:\n\n\nBetween 1995 and 2000, Ma Ying-jeou and his three successors filed several retrial requests with the Supreme Court, but all were rejected. Meantime, this case drew the attention of Amnesty International and was widely broadcast throughout the world, nicknamed as \"the Hsichih Trio\".\n\nThe Supreme Court ordered a retrial on May 19, 2000, just one day before former President Chen Shui-bian's inauguration. On January 13, 2003, the Taiwan High Court passed a verdict that they were not guilty and released them, but the victims' families were unwilling to accept this and appealed. On June 29, 2007, the Taiwan High Court once again found the trio guilty and condemned them to death, but surprisingly did not put them in custody because \"the 3 defendants are already famous worldwide and will be identified in any place\", the first such case in the ROC history. \nOn Nov 12, 2010, the Taiwan High Court delivered another verdict, revoking the previous decision and finding the three not guilty, \"as there was no proof for the crime they were accused of.\" The prosecutor appealed again, and the Supreme Court ordered yet another retrial on Apr. 21, 2011. On Aug. 31, 2012, the High Court reaffirmed the innocence of the three defendants. According to criminal procedure legislation that came into effect in 2010, when court proceedings have begun on a criminal case more than six years previously, and the Supreme Court had ordered more than three retrials, if the High Court has already found the defendants to be non-guilty twice and decided non-guilty again in the third trial, the prosecutor can no longer appeal. The High Court delivered the first non-guilty verdict in 2003, and again in 2010. With the 2012 verdict, the Hsichih trio meets the condition of the new criminal legislation, and the case is concluded.\n\nIn December 1997, Tainan native Lu Cheng (盧正), an unemployed former policeman, was charged with the kidnapping and murder of a local woman, Chan Chun-tzu (詹春子), who along with her husband were both former high school classmates of Lu's. The Supreme Court of the Republic of China sentenced Lu to death in June 2000 but his family noted several suspicious points:\n\n\nDespite these suspicious points, Minister of Justice Chen Ding-nan ordered Lu Cheng's execution on September 7, 2000, just one day before that year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It was rumored that Lu Cheng remained conscious after receiving five anesthetic injections at 3:00 a.m., so the officials had to shoot him while he was conscious and his eyes remained opened after his death. Lu Cheng's family continues to protest but there has been no concrete official response to date.\n\nPresident Ma Ying-jeou and the Ministry of National Defense have made a public apology to the family of former Air Force Pvt. Chiang Kuo-ching (江國慶) for his wrongful execution in 1997. Chiang was arrested for the 1996 rape and murder of a five-year-old girl. He was tortured into making a false confession by military counterintelligence. After reopening the case, investigators arrested Hsu Rong-chou, who had a record of sexual abuses, on 28 January 2011. Hsu then confessed to the crime. The officials who handled the original investigation were protected from prosecution by the statute of limitations for public employees.\n\nTaiwan's major Buddhist authorities hold diverse interpretations of what can be considered a \"Buddhist perspective\" to capital punishment:\n\n...the Buddha has stated very clearly that 'no killing' is the first rule of the five basic moral ethics (the Five Precepts). It is absolutely impossible for Buddha to speak favorably of 'solving problems through killing'. Killings will only lead to more killings...it is not necessary for the victims and their family members to take revenge personally，and no third parties are needed to join into the network of killing. Their own karma will not let them run away.\n\nThe Kuomintang, New Party and People First Party strongly support the use of capital punishment.\n\nThe Democratic Progressive Party has both proponents and opponents of capital punishment, however the platform of the DPP state that they are discussing possibility of abolition of capital punishment.\n\nGenerally, the New Power Party and the Green Party Taiwan are in favour of abolition of capital punishment.\n\nDuring the Republic of China (Taiwan) 9-13 July 2002 state visit to the United States of America, Attorney General of the United States of America John Ashcroft announced that the Taiwanese Minister of Justice Chen Ding-nan had made a policy statement of moving towards abolishing the death penalty using a phased approach. \n\nThese controversial cases apparently influenced the local judicial system.\n\nWhen the Democratic Progressive Party first governed in 2000, the DPP government had influenced their policies that they were moving forward to abolish the death penalty. Chen Ding-nan, the first Minister of Justice of the DPP, publicly announced his intention to abolish the death penalty in May 2001 and his views were backed by President Chen Shui-bian.\n\nAlthough the right to abolish death penalty is held by the Legislative Yuan which is currently dominated by the opposing Pan-blue coalition, as well as being more conservative on this issue, the Democratic Progressive Party government forced a moratorium by not signing death warrants except for serious and noncontroversial cases. As a result, the number of executions dropped significantly from 2002. In an October 2006 interview, Chen Ding-nan's successor Shih Mao-lin (施茂林) said he would not sign any death warrants for the 19 defendants who had already been sentenced to death by the Supreme Court, because their cases were still being reviewed inside the Ministry.\nThese conditions remained in effect until Chen Shui-bian's tenure expired on May 20, 2008.\n\nIn May 2008, Chen Shui-bian's successor Ma Ying-jeou nominated Wang Ching-feng as the Minister of Justice. Wang opposed capital punishment and delayed every case delivered to the Minister's Office. Until March 2010, a total of 44 prisoners given death sentences by the Supreme Court were detained by the Ministry but Wang still publicly announced her strong opposition to capital punishment during media interviews. This caused controversy and the consensus suddenly broke after entertainer Pai Bing-bing (whose daughter Pai Hsiao-yen was kidnapped and murdered in 1997) held a high-profile protest against Wang. Wang, who originally refused to step down, bowed to social pressure and resigned on March 11, 2010. Wang's successor Tseng Yung-Fu (曾勇夫) promised premier Wu Den-yih that he would resume executions.\n\nOn April 30, 2010, Justice Minister Tseng Yung-fu ordered 4 executions, ending the four-year moratorium. As of September 1, 2018, 34 executions have been carried out since then.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15131185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15131185", "title": "Care Quality Commission", "text": "Care Quality Commission\n\nThe Care Quality Commission (CQC) is an executive non-departmental public body of the Department of Health and Social Care of the United Kingdom. It was established in 2009 to regulate and inspect health and social care services in England.\n\nIt was formed from three predecessor organisations:\n\nThe CQC's stated role is to make sure that hospitals, care homes, dental and general practices and other care services in England provide people with safe, effective and high-quality care, and to encourage them to improve. It carries out this role through checks it carries out during the registration process all new care services must complete, inspections and monitoring of a range of data sources that can indicate problems with services.\n\nPart of the commission's remit is protecting the interests of people whose rights have been restricted under the Mental Health Act.\n\nUntil 31 March 2009, regulation of health and adult social care in England was carried out by the Healthcare Commission and the Commission for Social Care Inspection. The Mental Health Act Commission had monitoring functions with regard to the operation of the Mental Health Act 1983.\n\nThe commission was established as a single, integrated regulator for England's health and adult social care services by the Health and Social Care Act 2008 to replace these three bodies. The Commission was created in shadow form on 1 October 2008 and began operating on 1 April 2009.\n\n\nThe Commission has three chief inspectors who are also board members:\n\n\nPrevious board members have included:\n\nIn August 2013 the CQC stated that it was finding it difficult to meet their inspection target of GP practices and had therefore drafted in 'bank' inspectors and authorised staff overtime to deal with the backlog.\n\nIn October 2014 Field announced that the Commission was going to begin inspecting health systems across whole geographical areas from 2015, including social care and NHS 111. There are suggestions that it could inspect clinical commissioning groups.\n\nBehan admitted in March 2015 that the Commission would not be able to inspect all acute trusts before the end of 2015 as it had intended. In February 2015 it reported that it was missing its targets for following up on the safeguarding information it received that might indicate that patients are at risk. He also said the CQC would update its oversight in line with the growth of new provider models and would begin looking at care quality along pathways to a greater degree and, for the first time, across localities.\n\nThe organisation failed to meet its inspection targets during the second quarter of 2015–16. 70% of adult social care inspections had been undertaken and 61% of primary medical services. An exception to this was inspections of hospital acute services where targets were slightly exceeded, an additional 2 inspections having been made in this sector.\n\nIn December 2015 the Public Accounts Committee (PAC) was critical of the regulator, and said that it was \"behind where it should be, six years after it was established”. Meg Hillier MP, the chair of the PAC, noted that reports prepared by the CQC contained many errors; one foundation trust said that their staff had found more than 200 errors in a draft CQC report. Hillier said \"The fact these errors were picked up offers some reassurance, but this is clearly unacceptable from a public body in which taxpayers are placing their trust.”\n\nIn July 2016 the commission issued an apology after admitting that up to 500 Disclosure and Barring Service (DBS) certificates submitted by applicants to become registered managers and providers had been lost during a planned office refurbishment; a locked filing cabinet had been incorrectly marked up to be taken away and destroyed.\n\nIn the period of August 2016 to January 2017 the CQC sent questionnaires to inpatients of NHS hospitals who had been service users in the month of July 2016. 77,850 surveys were sent out.\n\nIn October 2016 a briefing paper issued by the organisation stated that no directorate was meeting objectives for producing reports on time. Of services which had been inspected over half had not improved their rating when re-inspected, with 45% staying at the same rating and 10% having a lower rating.\n\nFollowing the cyber attacks on NHS systems in May 2017 it was announced that the CQC will be asking probing questions to assess data security as part of its inspection process.\n\nAfter the Grenfell Tower fire in June 2017 letters were sent to around 17,000 care homes, hospitals and hospices requesting that they review fire safety processes, paying particular attention to the safety of service users who were more vulnerable due to mobility issues or learning disabilities.\n\nIn March 2018 the Public Accounts Committee reported that although the regulator had \"improved significantly\" there was \"no room for complacency\" in the organisation which had “persistent weaknesses and looming challenges”. Whilst there had been improvements in the timeliness of hospital inspection reports since 2015, only 25% of reports on hospitals where less than 3 services were inspected were published within the target of 50 days. It was intended that 90% of reports should meet the target. The PAC also noted that GPs had felt burdened by the CQC's regulation practices. In response David Behan stated that he accepted the committee's recommendations and did not underestimate the task at hand.\n\nIn July 2018 the CQC stated that 96 safeguarding concerns had not been passed on to local authorities over the last 12 months. Andrea Sutcliffe, acting chief executive of the CQC said that an urgent review was carried out when the issue was discovered and it was found that \"none of these referrals contained information about immediate risk of severe harm to people\". Sutcliffe apologised for the error and said an independent investigation \"will assist us in ensuring we improve our systems to avoid something like this happening again\".\nIn October 2018 CQC's Chief Executive Ian Trenholm stated that he wanted to make the information held by the organisation more widely available to the public and that he also intended to make CQC an easier organisation to do business with and a better place to work. A chief digital officer was to be appointed as part of this process.\n\nIn November 2009 Barbara Young, then the CQC chair, resigned from the commission when a report detailing poor standards at Basildon and Thurrock University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust was leaked to the media. The report found that \"hundreds of people had died needlessly due to appalling standards of care.\" One month earlier the commission had rated the quality of care at the hospital as \"good.\"\n\nIn August 2012 chief executive David Behan commissioned a report by management consultants Grant Thornton. The report examined the CQC's response to complaints about baby and maternal deaths and injuries at Furness General Hospital in Barrow-in-Furness, Cumbria and was instigated by a complaint from a member of the public and \"an allegation of a \"cover-up\" submitted by a whistleblower at CQC.\" It was published on 19 June 2013.\n\nAmong the findings, the CQC was \"accused of quashing an internal review that uncovered weaknesses in its processes\" and had allegedly \"deleted the review of their failure to act on concerns about University Hospitals of Morecambe Bay NHS Trust.\" One CQC employee claimed that he was instructed by a senior manager \"to destroy his review because it would expose the regulator to public criticism.\" The report concluded: \"We think that the information contained in the [deleted] report was sufficiently important that the deliberate failure to provide it could properly be characterised as a 'cover-up'.\" David Prior, who joined the commission as chairman in January 2013, responded that the organisation's previous management had been \"totally dysfunctional\" and admitted that the organisation was \"not fit for purpose.\"\n\nOn 20 June 2013, Behan and Prior agreed to release the names of previously redacted senior managers within the Grant Thornton report, who it is alleged had suppressed the internal CQC report. The people named were former CQC Chief Executive Cynthia Bower, deputy CEO Jill Finney and media manager Anna Jefferson. All were reportedly present at a meeting where deletion of a critical report was allegedly discussed. Bower and Jefferson immediately denied being involved in a cover-up. \"The Guardian\" newspaper reported on 19 June 2013 that Tim Farron MP had written to the Metropolitan Police asking them to investigate the alleged cover-up.\n\nFollowing an investigation, CQC found that Jefferson had not been party to any alleged 'delete' instruction. Jefferson was cleared of any wrong-doing and CQC apologised for the distress caused by the allegation.\n\nFinney subsequently started litigation seeking at least £1.3 million libel damages from the CQC on the basis that the CQC’s current chair David Prior and chief executive David Behan abused their power and acted maliciously in publishing allegations that she ordered a “cover-up” of its failings. The Grant Thornton report said it was “more likely than not” that Ms Finney had ordered the deletion of an internal report by Louise Dineley, the CQC’s head of regulatory risk. The CQC started litigation against Grant Thornton claiming a contribution towards any “damages, interests and/or costs” incurred in the case.\n\nResidential establishments, unlike hospitals, can easily be closed, or sold, and reopened with a new identity. Private Eye reported in November 2015 that most of the 34 homes closed under Cynthia Bower after failing their inspection later reopened with a new name or under new ownership, but with similar problems. Compassion in Care told the magazine that if a home changed name or ownership it was then listed by the CQC as \"new services\" and \"uninspected\" by the CQC, and there was no link to reports on the same establishment under different ownership, even if the new owners were linked to the previous owners, and there was no follow up inspection if problems had been identified. They had found 152 homes reregistered as new, when they had only changed owner or name. The Commission had identified safety concerns in more than 40% of the homes it had inspected, and 10% were rated as inadequate.\n\nIn April 2016 it was reported that 44% of care homes in the South East inspected over an 18 month period were rated as inadequate or requiring improvement. Only 0.9% of the 1200 homes inspected were rated as outstanding.\n\nIn September 2016 the CQC said that 40% of nursing homes in the country were rated as \"requiring improvement\" or \"inadequate\".\n\nIt is a legal requirement for homes to clearly display their CQC ratings on their websites but a July 2017 survey carried out by Which? found that 27% of care homes surveyed either completely failed to display them or placed them where they were very difficult to find.\n\nAs of September 2018 the CQC rated almost 3,000 out of 14,975 care homes in England as inadequate or needing improvement.\n\nThe care home Horncastle House was closed by CQC in September 2018 as an urgent enforcement action to protect residents. The owner Sussex Healthcare stated that they were disappointed by the CQC's decision to close the service and did not accept the allegations which had led to the closure.\n\nWinterbourne View was a private hospital at Hambrook, South Gloucestershire, owned and operated by Castlebeck. It was exposed in a \"Panorama\" investigation into physical and psychological abuse suffered by people with learning disabilities and challenging behaviour, first broadcast in 2011. One senior nurse had reported his concerns directly to CQC, but his complaint was not taken up. The public funded hospital was shut down as a result of the abuse that took place. Cynthia Bower, then the chief executive of the commission, resigned ahead of a critical government report in which Winterbourne View was cited.\n\nAsh Court is a residential nursing home for the elderly in London, operated by Forest Healthcare. In April 2012 hidden camera footage was broadcast in a BBC \"Panorama\" exposé which showed an elderly woman being physically assaulted at Ash Court by a male carer and mistreated by four others. The standard of care at the nursing home had been rated \"excellent.\" The victim was an 81-year-old woman suffering Alzheimer's disease and severe arthritis. Although the commission's primary function is to enforce national standards including safeguarding the vulnerable and \"enabling them to live free from harm, abuse and neglect\" the CQC responded by stating that they \"should not be criticised for failing to protect people from harm\" and could not be expected to spot abuse \"which often takes place behind closed doors.\"\n\nIn January 2015 the Commission for the first time took action in respect of primary care. Three GP practices were put into special measures after unsatisfactory inspection results: Priory Avenue Surgery in Reading, Berkshire; Dr Michael Florin’s surgery in Sale, Greater Manchester; and Dr Srinivas Dharmana’s family and general practice in Walton, Liverpool.\n\nPriory Avenue Surgery was taken out of the special measures category later in 2015; it was rated \"good\" for being caring and \"requires improvement\" for being safe, effective, responsive and well led.\n\nThe CQC considered cancelling the registration of Dharmana’s Family and General Practice, which would have forced it to close. This did not come about as Dr Dharmana voluntarily closed the service in December 2015.\n\nIn October 2016 the CQC's annual report stated that around 800,000 patients were registered with a GP practice assessed as inadequate on safety grounds by their inspectors.\n\nBy February 2017 the CQC had completed inspections of all GP practices which were registered before 1 October 2014. This amounted to more than 8,000 inspections.\n\nIn September 2017 the report State of Care in General Practice, 2014–2017 was published. It stated that 90% of practices were rated 'good' or 'outstanding'. The report also said that a causal relationship between levels of NHS funding and ratings had not been found, acknowledging that this is \"a complex area that may benefit from further work.\"\n\nIn January 2018 it was announced that the CQC would begin to inspect independent doctors providing online services.\n\nThe CQC's State of Care report for 2017/18 found that 91% of GP practices were rated as Good and 5% Outstanding.\n\nIn a report to the audit committee revealed by the Health Service Journal in July 2014 it was reported that the Commission had employed 134 applicants in 2012 who “failed some or all of its recruitment activities”. Of that group 121 were still in post. The report said: “This in essence implies that our regulatory judgments may be impaired as we have not always appointed staff with the core competencies required to do the job properly, and they may not have received appropriate training to bring them up to the standard required.” In the same month the chief executive David Behan said that recruiting extra inspectors was taking longer than expected due to the \"high standards\" set for new recruits. As a result some teams were operating at 50% capacity. In response to this situation the number of inspections scheduled for the second half of 2014 was scaled back.\n\nA report of the CQC board in December 2014 showed the organisation had 852 full-time equivalent inspectors in post but a target of 1,411 by December 2015 – the number needed to “discharge the commitments that we’ve made in our business plan”.\n\nThe budget for 2015/6 was £249 million, but is to be reduced to £236 million for 2016/7. It is anticipated that by 2019/20 the budget will be £217 million. It had a budget of £1.1 million for “travel and subsistence” for hospital inspections in 2014–15, but actually spent £4.4 million. In response to a Freedom of information request in November 2015 it was stated that CQC have a database support contract with Computacenter which costs approximately £700,000 per annum; the contract expires in September 2016 with the option of a 1 year extension.\n\nSubstantial increases are expected in future years as it moves to a full cost recovery basis. NHS Providers described the decision to increase fees as \"regrettable\". For 2016/7 fees will increase by 75% as its government funding is reduced by 25%. The increase in fee levels has been criticised by the Registered Nursing Home association (RNHA), Care England and the Voluntary Organisations Disability Group (VODG).\n\nFees relate to the size and type of organisation and have been increased on a yearly basis: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27478948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27478948", "title": "Cleo Spurlock Wallace", "text": "Cleo Spurlock Wallace\n\nCleo Spurlock Wallace (July 29, 1914 - August 26, 1985) was an American speech therapist born in Garo, Colorado.\n\nIn 1933, Spurlock was one of the first six recipients of four-year scholarships to the University of Denver; she graduated in 1937. That same year, she married investment broker Thomas Wallace.\n\nShe subsequently earned a Rockefeller Foundation Teaching Fellowship to the University of Denver, where she received a master's degree in speech pathology in 1943.\n\nWallace then began teaching high school, where she received her first referral from a local physician. She worked with the child after school in her home; before long, she began treating other children with speech and language disorders. In 1948, to meet the needs of her growing clientele, she purchased two buildings with the help of businessman Henry Winter and founded Wallace Village for Children, a nonprofit organization. When her husband died that same year, she turned all of her attention to her work. She paid one dollar for a five-year lease on a building at 4414 Logan Street, and moved in with five teachers and thirty students.\n\nBy 1954, the Wallace Village for Children was the beneficiary of community support, and with local assistance, the organization purchased at 100th Avenue and Wadsworth, the site of today’s Westminster Campus. At that time, residential services were added to the outpatient and day treatment programs. In 1974, Wallace retired, but remained actively involved until her death in 1985. In 1986, the organization’s name was changed to the Cleo Wallace Center and later to Devereux Cleo Wallace after its affiliation with the Devereux Foundation.\n\nWallace received numerous awards during her lifetime related to her work with children with disabilities. These awards included the Evans Award from the University of Denver Alumni Association, representing the highest honor awarded by the Alumni Association. She also received an appointment to the White House Conference on Services for Handicapped Children, and a presidential appointment to the National Advisory of Neurological Diseases and Stroke Council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11120939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11120939", "title": "Concomitant drug", "text": "Concomitant drug\n\nConcomitant drugs are two or more drugs used or given at or almost at the same time (one after the other, on the same day, etc.). The term has two contextual uses: as used in medicine or as used in drug abuse.\n\nThis designation is used when medicinal drugs are given either at the same time or almost at the same time. This is often the case in medicine.\n\nChemotherapy for cancer applies as an example. The standard of care (sometimes also called the \"gold standard\") for the adjuvant treatment of stage III colon cancer is the FOLFOX chemotherapy protocol (used in Europe, Japan, Canada, and Australia) and respectively the FLOX chemotherapy protocol (used in the USA). These 2 chemotherapy protocols are very similar in principle. Both consist of 3 medicinal drugs: a) Leucovorin (= folinic acid = calcium folinate), b) 5-Fluorouracil (= 5-FU), and c) Oxaliplatin. Since these 3 medicinal drugs are \"concomitant\" to each other, such a constellation is called \"concomitant drugs\".\n\nContrast imaging in medicine is another example. These are imaging procedures in medicine that are performed after giving the patient an iodinated contrast medium (e.g. different types of contrast X-rays, CTs, MRIs). It is well known that such iodinated contrast media can lead to acute allergies in some patients. They may also lead to kidney damage. If the patient is receiving a \"concomitant\" medicinal drug (prescribed to the patient by another physician), and the radiologist performing the imaging procedure is unaware of this, potentially harmful side-effects can occur and increase the risk of contrast medium-induced nephropathy (i.e. increase the risk of damage to the kidneys). In general, radiologists carefully ask their patients about other medicinal drugs they are \"concomitantly\" taking before the imaging procedure. Often, they monitor the kidney function and the hydration status of their patients during the imaging procedure, especially whenever a concomitant drug (that is harmful to the kidney) is being used.\n\nIf a drug abuser ingests or misuses two or more drugs, either at the same time or almost at the same time, this is also called \"concomitant drugs\".\n\nWhether concomitant drug abuse leads to an increased number of deaths was scientifically analysed in Sheffield, UK. The researchers wanted to find out whether concomitant drug abuse (i.e. an opiate plus another drug of misuse) leads to an increased number of acute accidental opiate-related deaths. The authors showed that at least in the Sheffield area, intravenous (IV) administration of an opiate is the most consistent factor associated with drug abuse deaths. The co-administration of a concomitant drug of misuse appeared to be a feature rather than a risk factor per se in such deaths.\n"}
{"id": "12310114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12310114", "title": "Control banding", "text": "Control banding\n\nControl banding is a qualitative or semi-quantitative risk assessment and management approach to promoting occupational health and safety. It is intended to minimize worker exposures to hazardous chemicals and other risk factors in the workplace and to help small businesses by providing an easy-to-understand, practical approach to controlling hazardous exposures at work. \n\nThe principle of control banding was first applied to dangerous chemicals, chemical mixtures, and fumes. The control banding process emphasizes the controls needed to prevent hazardous substances from causing harm to people at work. The greater the potential for harm, the greater the degree of control needed to manage the situation and make the risk “acceptable.” \n\nA single \"control\" technology or strategy is matched with a single \"band\", or range of exposures (e.g. 1-10 milligrams per cubic meter) for a particular class of chemicals (e.g. skin irritants, reproductive hazards). \n\nHere is an example of four control bands developed for inhalation hazards.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Health and Safety Executive (HSE) has developed a comprehensive control banding model called \"COSHH Essentials\" (COSHH stands for \"control of substances hazardous to health.)\"\n\nThe use of control banding strategies has become very popular in the pharmaceutical industry where early stage development compounds may have little or no toxicology data.\n\nControl banding is not without limitations and still requires professional knowledge and experience to verify that the control measures specified have been properly installed, maintained, and used. Controls should be validated prior to use by either using substance specific industrial hygiene methods or performing surrogate monitoring.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55818683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55818683", "title": "Daphne Steele", "text": "Daphne Steele\n\nDaphne Steele (1929–2004) was a Guyanese nurse, who in 1964 became the first Black Matron in the National Health Service. \n\nDaphne Steele was born in 1929 in the Dutch colony of Essequibo (now part of Guyana) as the eldest of nine children. Her younger sister Carmen Steele later became better known as the actress Carmen Munroe. While her mother stayed at home, her father worked as a pharmacist who travelled around the colony to work. The family were sufficiently well off to be able to afford servants to clean the family house.\n\nShe underwent training in nursing and midwifery at the public hospital in Georgetown in 1945. She emigrated to the United Kingdom in 1951, as part of the British Government seeking to recruit people to the new National Health Service (NHS). The journey took 14 days, and she arrived in Plymouth, Devon. She was surprised when a white man took her luggage for her, as in her native country, white men only worked in managerial roles. Steele was placed on a fast-track scheme in Balham, South London, at the St. James's Hospital. She found the discipline to be akin to being in the military, which extended to the nurses' home where she lived. Steele also witnessed the racism of white colleagues and from patients, but tried to be friendly to avoid this personally. She later recalled that her Jamaican colleagues were skilled in \"cussing\" out particularly nasty patients.\n\nShe moved to the United States in 1955, where she worked at a hospital in New Jersey, before moving back to the UK in 1960 where she was stationed at RAF Brize Norton. She later moved to Manchester, where she was employed as a Deputy Matron at a nursing home. When it was announced that the home was closing, an Irish Matron suggested that Steele should also apply to become a Matron. So in 1964, she was appointed as Matron at St. Winifred's Hospital in Ilkley, West Yorkshire. This was the first time that a Black person had been appointed as a Matron anywhere in the NHS. The news of the appointment made news worldwide, with Steele receiving around 350 letters from well-wishers. After the hospital closed in 1971, Steele became a health visitor at Leeds University.\n\nFollowing retirement, Steele volunteered for a variety of organisations, including for Soroptimist International and became vice-president of the Association of Guyanese Nurses and Allied Professionals (AGNAP). She was a devoted Methodist. In 2001, the Guyanese High Commissioner to the United Kingdom awarded Steele a certificate in recognition of her medical achievements. Steele died in 2004. In her memory, AGNAP renamed their annual health talk in 2013 to the Daphne Steele Memorial Lecture.\n"}
{"id": "4501329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4501329", "title": "Deaths of philosophers", "text": "Deaths of philosophers\n\nThe documented history of philosophy is often said to begin with the notable death of Socrates. Since that time, there have been many other noteworthy deaths of philosophers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55269484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55269484", "title": "France at the Deaflympics", "text": "France at the Deaflympics\n\nFrance has been participating at the Deaflympics since 1924 and has earned a total of 268 medals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36182931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36182931", "title": "Giuseppe Vincenzo Ciaccio", "text": "Giuseppe Vincenzo Ciaccio\n\nGiuseppe Vincenzo Ciaccio (15 October 1824 in Catanzaro – 15 June 1901 in Bologna) was an Italian anatomist and histologist. His name is associated with accessory lacrimal glands known as \"Ciaccio's glands\".\n\nIn 1845, he earned his degree in medicine and surgery in Naples, afterwards opening a medical practice in Catanzaro, where in 1855 he attained the chair of theoretical surgery and obstetrics at the royal university-school. In 1860 he relocated to Turin, subsequently receiving a scholarship to study and work abroad. In London, he met with Thomas Spencer Wells (1818-1897) and Lionel Smith Beale (1828-1906), who was an important influence to Ciaccio in his decision to dedicate himself to microscopic anatomy. Following his stay in England, he traveled to Berlin, where he attended lectures by Rudolf Virchow (1821-1902) and performed histological studies of Pacinian corpuscles in the laboratory of Wilhelm Kühne (1837-1900).\n\nIn 1865, he was named professor of microscopic anatomy at the University of Naples, and two years later served as professor of experimental physiology at the University of Parma. From 1870 he was associated with the University of Bologna, working as a professor of comparative anatomy and histology.\n\nIn the fields of anatomy and histology, he is known for studies involving the finer structure of the eye (microscopic investigations of the conjunctiva, cornea and vitreous). He also made contributions involving research of peripheral nerve fiber terminations in vertebrates (e.g. torpedo fish).\n\nThe following are a few of Ciaccio's many publications in anatomy and histology.\n\n"}
{"id": "57857273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57857273", "title": "Global Digital Exemplar", "text": "Global Digital Exemplar\n\nGlobal Digital Exemplar (GDE) is a knowledge sharing platform developed by NHS England. The programme is to enable \"digitally advanced\" NHS trusts to share knowledge with other NHS trusts. Specifically knowledge gained during the implementation of IT systems, and especially experience from introducing electronic health record (EHR) systems. The GDE project is expected to last two to three and a half years; with the most digitally advanced trusts on the shorter time scale.\n\nFour rounds of exemplars have been announced so far — two waves of acute trust GDEs, and one wave each of ambulance trusts, and mental health trusts. In addition, eighteen acute trust \"fast followers\" have been partnered with the acute trusts.\n\nEach GDE will receive \"up to £10 million\" to spend on digital projects. The funding must be matched locally, but not necessarily in cash.\n\nThe first twelve exemplars were announced in 2016. A second wave added another four in 2017.\n\nAlthough NHS England refers to this grouping of exemplars as \"acute\", a number of the hospitals operated by trusts within this group are specialised hospitals. Examples include, Alder Hey Children's Hospital and Western Eye Hospital.\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are eighteen acute \"fast follower\" trusts, each of which has been partnered with an acute GDE.\n\nAs of July 2018, there are three ambulance trust exemplars.\n\nThere are currently seven mental health trust GDEs.\n\n"}
{"id": "6918514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6918514", "title": "Harrisburg State Hospital", "text": "Harrisburg State Hospital\n\nHarrisburg State Hospital, formerly known as Pennsylvania State Lunatic Hospital from 1851 to 1937, in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, Dauphin County, on Cameron and McClay Streets, was Pennsylvania's first public facility to house the mentally ill and disabled.\nThe Harrisburg State Hospital was created as the Pennsylvania State Lunatic Hospital and Union Asylum for the Insane in 1845 to provide care for mentally ill persons throughout the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. \nThe hospital was the result of the successful lobbying efforts of 19th century social reformer, Dorothea Dix. A nine-member board of trustees was empowered to appoint a superintendent, purchase land, and construct facilities near Harrisburg. This board of trustees received no compensation for their work. In 1848, the name of the hospital was changed to the Pennsylvania State Lunatic Hospital when $50,000 was appropriated to begin construction. Patients from all parts of the state would be accepted at the hospital, at the expense of the counties that they belonged; or, if able they would pay for themselves at a cost of $2.50 per week. This cost included board and medical attention. Originally the hospital only had one building which housed the administration, staff, and patients. Built in 1851, the Main Building was designed following the Kirkbride Plan which was a very popular building style during the late 19th century. The original capacity of the building was 250 patients, but was later expanded with the removal of dining rooms and the addition of the North and South Branch Buildings.\n\nA farm was located adjacent to the hospital and provided work therapy for the patients and also enabled the hospital to be self-supporting, by growing its own food, and raising its own livestock. When the first patient was admitted on October 6, 1851, every poor district was charged a $2.00 weekly maintenance fee for the care of each indigent patient. The boarding charges for private patients were scheduled to vary between $3.00 and $10.00 based upon ability to pay. In 1869 the Board of Public Charities was created to inspect all public and voluntary charitable institutions in the Commonwealth and to report to the legislature with recommendations concerning their operation. For four decades this unpaid Board and its small staff had no authority to correct the conditions it found within state institutions. Nonetheless, by persuasion and publicity they were able to improve the quality of care in public institutions. A major objective was the removal of the insane from almshouses to the Pennsylvania State Lunatic Hospital and other state hospitals. A Committee on Lunacy was created within the Board of Public charities in 1883 to oversee the operations of these mental institutions.\n\nThe early 20th century was a time of great change for Harrisburg State Hospital. The Main Building had become old and was in need of replacement. Between the years 1893 and 1912 the hospital was rebuilt following the \"Cottage Plan\", which became popular at the beginning of the 20th century. At its peak the hospital consumed over and included more than 70 buildings. Designed and constructed by Pennsylvania architects Addison Hutton and John A. Dempwolf the campus and buildings were meant to represent an Italianate window. The buildings on the male and female sides of the campus mirrored each other until the addition of new buildings in the 1930s.\n\nIn 1921 the name of the hospital was changed to the Harrisburg State Hospital. Also that year, the Board of Public Charities was abolished and the Department of Public Welfare was created to administer all state hospitals. With the completion of the new \"Cottage Plan\" buildings, the hospital had grown considerably larger. Its patient capacity was 2,019, but at one time it held as many as 2,441 with 437 on parole. The hospital was self-sufficient, with its own farm, power plant, and stores; it became known as the \"City on the Hill\". During wartime there was a 50% shortage of attendants, at the lowest level of employment there were as few as one nurse to 166 patients. In June 1945 only 26 of the 92 authorized positions on the male side were filled. The manpower shortage resulted in widespread curtailment of services to both the public and patients.\n\nUp until 1955 certain administrative responsibilities, such as the selection of the hospital Superintendent and the enactment of rules and regulations governing the hospital were vested in the Board of Trustees of the Harrisburg State Hospital. In 1955 an amendment to the Administrative Code authorized the Department of Public Welfare to assume administrative responsibilities for the Harrisburg State Hospital, relegating its Board of Trustees to specific advisory duties. This act also provided for the appointment of a Commissioner of Mental Health in the Department of Public Welfare who assumed overall responsibility for Pennsylvania's mental health program.\n\nLike other institutions Harrisburg State Hospital's patient population began to fall in the late 20th century. This was due to new medicines being developed and finally deinstitutionalization. The hospital was finally closed on January 27, 2006. Today (2008) the hospital sits on a campus with stately buildings in a country setting, in Dauphin County, with a majority of its campus in Susquehanna Township. There are over fifty buildings still located on the campus. The former hospital facility now provides office space for many state agencies.\n\nThe hospital was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1986.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "205624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=205624", "title": "Horizontal gene transfer", "text": "Horizontal gene transfer\n\nHorizontal gene transfer (HGT) or lateral gene transfer (LGT) is the movement of genetic material between unicellular and/or multicellular organisms other than by the (\"vertical\") transmission of DNA from parent to offspring (reproduction). HGT is an important factor in the evolution of many organisms.\n\nHorizontal gene transfer is the primary mechanism for the spread of antibiotic resistance in bacteria, and plays an important role in the evolution of bacteria that can degrade novel compounds such as human-created pesticides and in the evolution, maintenance, and transmission of virulence.<ref name=\"doi10.3389/fcimb.2012.00161\"></ref> It often involves temperate bacteriophages and plasmids. Genes responsible for antibiotic resistance in one species of bacteria can be transferred to another species of bacteria through various mechanisms of HGT such as transformation, transduction and conjugation, subsequently arming the antibiotic resistant genes' recipient against antibiotics. The rapid spread of antibiotic resistance genes in this manner is becoming medically challenging to deal with. It is also postulated that HGT promotes the maintenance of a universal life biochemistry and, subsequently, the universality of the genetic code.\n\nMost thinking in genetics has focused upon vertical transfer, but the importance of horizontal gene transfer among single-cell organisms is beginning to be acknowledged.\n\nGene delivery can be seen as an artificial horizontal gene transfer, and is a form of genetic engineering.\n\nGriffith's experiment, reported in 1928 by Frederick Griffith, was the first experiment suggesting that bacteria are capable of transferring genetic information through a process known as transformation. Griffith's findings were followed by research in the late 1930s and early 40s that isolated DNA as the material that communicated this genetic information.\n\nHorizontal genetic transfer was then described in Seattle in 1951, in a paper demonstrating that the transfer of a viral gene into \"Corynebacterium diphtheriae\" created a virulent strain from a non-virulent strain, also simultaneously solving the riddle of diphtheria (that patients could be infected with the bacteria but not have any symptoms, and then suddenly convert later or never), and giving the first example for the relevance of the lysogenic cycle. Inter-bacterial gene transfer was first described in Japan in a 1959 publication that demonstrated the transfer of antibiotic resistance between different species of bacteria. In the mid-1980s, Syvanen predicted that lateral gene transfer existed, had biological significance, and was involved in shaping evolutionary history from the beginning of life on Earth.\n\nAs Jian, Rivera and Lake (1999) put it: \"Increasingly, studies of genes and genomes are indicating that considerable horizontal transfer has occurred between prokaryotes\" (see also Lake and Rivera, 2007). The phenomenon appears to have had some significance for unicellular eukaryotes as well. As Bapteste et al. (2005) observe, \"additional evidence suggests that gene transfer might also be an important evolutionary mechanism in protist evolution.\"\n\nGrafting of one plant to another can transfer chloroplasts (organelles in plant cells that conduct photosynthesis), mitochondrial DNA, and the entire cell nucleus containing the genome to potentially make a new species. Some Lepidoptera (e.g. monarch butterflies and silkworms) have been genetically modified by horizontal gene transfer from the wasp bracovirus. Bites from the insect Reduviidae (assassin bug) can, via a parasite, infect humans with the trypanosomal Chagas disease, which can insert its DNA into the human genome. It has been suggested that lateral gene transfer to humans from bacteria may play a role in cancer.\n\nAaron Richardson and Jeffrey D. Palmer state: \"Horizontal gene transfer (HGT) has played a major role in bacterial evolution and is fairly common in certain unicellular eukaryotes. However, the prevalence and importance of HGT in the evolution of multicellular eukaryotes remain unclear.\"\n\nDue to the increasing amount of evidence suggesting the importance of these phenomena for evolution (see below) molecular biologists such as Peter Gogarten have described horizontal gene transfer as \"A New Paradigm for Biology\".\n\nThere are several mechanisms for horizontal gene transfer:\n\nA transposable element (TE) (also called a transposon or jumping gene) is a mobile segment of DNA that can sometimes pick up a resistance gene and insert it into a plasmid or chromosome, thereby inducing horizontal gene transfer of antibiotic resistance.\n\nHorizontal transposon transfer (HTT) refers to the passage of pieces of DNA that are characterized by their ability to move from one locus to another between genomes by means other than parent-to-offspring inheritance. Horizontal gene transfer has long been thought to be crucial to prokaryotic evolution, but there is a growing amount of data showing that HTT is a common and widespread phenomenon in eukaryote evolution as well. On the transposable element side, spreading between genomes via horizontal transfer may be viewed as a strategy to escape purging due to purifying selection, mutational decay and/or host defense mechanisms.\n\nHTT can occur with any type of transposable elements, but DNA transposons and LTR retroelements are more likely to be capable of HTT because both have a stable, double-stranded DNA intermediate that is thought to be sturdier than the single-stranded RNA intermediate of non-LTR retroelements, which can be highly degradable. Non-autonomous elements may be less likely to transfer horizontally compared to autonomous elements because they do not encode the proteins required for their own mobilization. The structure of these non-autonomous elements generally consists of an intronless gene encoding a transposase protein, and may or may not have a promoter sequence. Those that do not have promoter sequences encoded within the mobile region rely on adjacent host promoters for expression. Horizontal transfer is thought to play an important role in the TE life cycle.\n\nHTT has been shown to occur between species and across continents in both plants and animals (Ivancevic et al. 2013), though some TEs have been shown to more successfully colonize the genomes of certain species over others. Both spatial and taxonomic proximity of species has been proposed to favor HTTs in plants and animals. It is unknown how the density of a population may affect the rate of HTT events within a population, but close proximity due to parasitism and cross contamination due to crowding have been proposed to favor HTT in both plants and animals. Successful transfer of a transposable element requires delivery of DNA from donor to host cell (and to the germ line for multi-cellular organisms), followed by integration into the recipient host genome. Though the actual mechanism for the transportation of TEs from donor cells to host cells is unknown, it is established that naked DNA and RNA can circulate in bodily fluid. Many proposed vectors include arthropods, viruses, freshwater snails (Ivancevic et al. 2013), endosymbiotic bacteria, and intracellular parasitic bacteria. In some cases, even TEs facilitate transport for other TEs.\n\nThe arrival of a new TE in a host genome can have detrimental consequences because TE mobility may induce mutation. However, HTT can also be beneficial by introducing new genetic material into a genome and promoting the shuffling of genes and TE domains among hosts, which can be co-opted by the host genome to perform new functions. Moreover, transposition activity increases the TE copy number and generates chromosomal rearrangement hotspots. HTT detection is a difficult task because it is an ongoing phenomenon that is constantly changing in frequency of occurrence and composition of TEs inside host genomes. Furthermore, few species have been analyzed for HTT, making it difficult to establish patterns of HTT events between species. These issues can lead to the underestimation or overestimation of HTT events between ancestral and current eukaryotic species.\n\nHorizontal gene transfer is typically inferred using bioinformatics methods, either by identifying atypical sequence signatures (\"parametric\" methods) or by identifying strong discrepancies between the evolutionary history of particular sequences compared to that of their hosts. The transferred gene (xenolog) found in the receiving species is more closely related to the genes of the donor species than would be expected.\n\nThe virus called \"Mimivirus\" infects amoebae. Another virus, called \"Sputnik\", also infects amoebae, but it cannot reproduce unless mimivirus has already infected the same cell. \"Sputnik's genome reveals further insight into its biology. Although 13 of its genes show little similarity to any other known genes, three are closely related to mimivirus and mamavirus genes, perhaps cannibalized by the tiny virus as it packaged up particles sometime in its history. This suggests that the satellite virus could perform horizontal gene transfer between viruses, paralleling the way that bacteriophages ferry genes between bacteria.\" Horizontal transfer is also seen between geminiviruses and tobacco plants.\n\nHorizontal gene transfer is common among bacteria, even among very distantly related ones. This process is thought to be a significant cause of increased drug resistance when one bacterial cell acquires resistance, and the resistance genes are transferred to other species. Transposition and horizontal gene transfer, along with strong natural selective forces have led to multi-drug resistant strains of \"S. aureus\" and many other pathogenic bacteria. Horizontal gene transfer also plays a role in the spread of virulence factors, such as exotoxins and exoenzymes, amongst bacteria. A prime example concerning the spread of exotoxins is the adaptive evolution of Shiga toxins in \"E. coli\" through horizontal gene transfer via transduction with \"Shigella\" species of bacteria. Strategies to combat certain bacterial infections by targeting these specific virulence factors and mobile genetic elements have been proposed. For example, horizontally transferred genetic elements play important roles in the virulence of \"E. coli\", \"Salmonella\", \"Streptococcus\" and \"Clostridium perfringens\".\n\nIn prokaryotes, restriction-modification systems are known to provide immunity against horizontal gene transfer and in stabilizing mobile genetic elements. Genes encoding restriction modification systems have been reported to move between prokaryotic genomes within mobile genetic elements such as plasmids, prophages, insertion sequences/transposons, integrative conjugative elements (ICEs), and integrons. Still, they are more frequently a chromosomal-encoded barrier to MGEs than an MGE-encoded tool for cell infection.\n\nNatural transformation is a bacterial adaptation for DNA transfer (HGT) that depends on the expression of numerous bacterial genes whose products are responsible for this process. In general, transformation is a complex, energy-requiring developmental process. In order for a bacterium to bind, take up and recombine exogenous DNA into its chromosome, it must become competent, that is, enter a special physiological state. Competence development in \"Bacillus subtilis\" requires expression of about 40 genes. The DNA integrated into the host chromosome is usually (but with infrequent exceptions) derived from another bacterium of the same species, and is thus homologous to the resident chromosome. The capacity for natural transformation occurs in at least 67 prokaryotic species.\nCompetence for transformation is typically induced by high cell density and/or nutritional limitation, conditions associated with the stationary phase of bacterial growth. Competence appears to be an adaptation for DNA repair. Transformation in bacteria can be viewed as a primitive sexual process, since it involves interaction of homologous DNA from two individuals to form recombinant DNA that is passed on to succeeding generations. Although transduction is the form of HGT most commonly associated with bacteriophages, certain phages may also be able to promote transformation.\n\nConjugation in \"Mycobacterium smegmatis\", like conjugation in \"E. coli\", requires stable and extended contact between a donor and a recipient strain, is DNase resistant, and the transferred DNA is incorporated into the recipient chromosome by homologous recombination. However, unlike \"E. coli\" high frequency of recombination conjugation (Hfr), mycobacterial conjugation is a type of HGT that is chromosome rather than plasmid based. Furthermore, in contrast to \"E. coli\" (Hfr) conjugation, in \"M. smegmatis\" all regions of the chromosome are transferred with comparable efficiencies. Substantial blending of the parental genomes was found as a result of conjugation, and this blending was regarded as reminiscent of that seen in the meiotic products of sexual reproduction.\n\nThe archaeon \"Sulfolobus solfataricus\", when UV irradiated, strongly induces the formation of type IV pili which then facilitates cellular aggregation. Exposure to chemical agents that cause DNA damage also induces cellular aggregation. Other physical stressors, such as temperature shift or pH, do not induce aggregation, suggesting that DNA damage is a specific inducer of cellular aggregation.\n\nUV-induced cellular aggregation mediates intercellular chromosomal HGT marker exchange with high frequency, and UV-induced cultures display recombination rates that exceed those of uninduced cultures by as much as three orders of magnitude. \"S. solfataricus\" cells aggregate preferentially with other cells of their own species. Frols et al. and Ajon et al. suggested that UV-inducible DNA transfer is likely an important mechanism for providing increased repair of damaged DNA via homologous recombination. This process can be regarded as a simple form of sexual interaction.\n\nAnother thermophilic species, \"Sulfolobus acidocaldarius\", is able to undergo HGT. \"S. acidocaldarius\" can exchange and recombine chromosomal markers at temperatures up to 84C. UV exposure induces pili formation and cellular aggregation. Cells with the ability to aggregate have greater survival than mutants lacking pili that are unable to aggregate. The frequency of recombination is increased by DNA damage induced by UV-irradiation and by DNA damaging chemicals.\n\nThe \"ups\" operon, containing five genes, is highly induced by UV irradiation. The proteins encoded by the \"ups\" operon are employed in UV-induced pili assembly and cellular aggregation leading to intercellular DNA exchange and homologous recombination. Since this system increases the fitness of \"S. acidocaldarius\" cells after UV exposure, Wolferen et al. considered that transfer of DNA likely takes place in order to repair UV-induced DNA damages by homologous recombination.\n\n\"Sequence comparisons suggest recent horizontal transfer of many genes among diverse species including across the boundaries of phylogenetic 'domains'. Thus determining the phylogenetic history of a species can not be done conclusively by determining evolutionary trees for single genes.\"\n\n\n\nAgrobacterium, a pathogenic bacterium that causes cells to proliferate as crown galls and proliferating roots is an example of a bacterium that can transfer genes to plants and this plays an important role in plant evolution.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGene transfer between plants and fungi has been posited for a number of cases, including rice (Oryza sativa).\n\nGenetic engineering is essentially horizontal gene transfer, albeit with synthetic expression cassettes. The Sleeping Beauty transposon system (SB) was developed as a synthetic gene transfer agent that was based on the known abilities of Tc1/mariner transposons to invade genomes of extremely diverse species. The SB system has been used to introduce genetic sequences into a wide variety of animal genomes. (See also Gene therapy.)\n\nHorizontal gene transfer is a potential confounding factor in inferring phylogenetic trees based on the sequence of one gene. For example, given two distantly related bacteria that have exchanged a gene a phylogenetic tree including those species will show them to be closely related because that gene is the same even though most other genes are dissimilar. For this reason it is often ideal to use other information to infer robust phylogenies such as the presence or absence of genes or, more commonly, to include as wide a range of genes for phylogenetic analysis as possible.\n\nFor example, the most common gene to be used for constructing phylogenetic relationships in prokaryotes is the 16S ribosomal RNA gene since its sequences tend to be conserved among members with close phylogenetic distances, but variable enough that differences can be measured. However, in recent years it has also been argued that 16s rRNA genes can also be horizontally transferred. Although this may be infrequent, the validity of 16s rRNA-constructed phylogenetic trees must be reevaluated.\n\nBiologist Johann Peter Gogarten suggests \"the original metaphor of a tree no longer fits the data from recent genome research\" therefore \"biologists should use the metaphor of a mosaic to describe the different histories combined in individual genomes and use the metaphor of a net to visualize the rich exchange and cooperative effects of HGT among microbes\". There exist several methods to infer such phylogenetic networks.\n\nUsing single genes as phylogenetic markers, it is difficult to trace organismal phylogeny in the presence of horizontal gene transfer. Combining the simple coalescence model of cladogenesis with rare HGT horizontal gene transfer events suggest there was no single most recent common ancestor that contained all of the genes ancestral to those shared among the three domains of life. Each contemporary molecule has its own history and traces back to an individual molecule cenancestor. However, these molecular ancestors were likely to be present in different organisms at different times.\"\n\nHorizontal gene transfer poses a possible challenge to the concept of the last universal common ancestor (LUCA) at the root of the tree of life first formulated by Carl Woese, which led him to propose the Archaea as a third domain of life. Indeed, it was while examining the new three-domain view of life that horizontal gene transfer arose as a complicating issue: \"Archaeoglobus fulgidus\" was seen as an anomaly with respect to a phylogenetic tree based upon the encoding for the enzyme HMGCoA reductase—the organism in question is a definite Archaean, with all the cell lipids and transcription machinery that are expected of an Archaean, but whose HMGCoA genes are of bacterial origin. Scientists are broadly agreed on symbiogenesis, that mitochondria in eukaryotes derived from alpha-proteobacterial cells and that chloroplasts came from ingested cyanobacteria, and other gene transfers may have affected early eukaryotes. (In contrast, multicellular eukaryotes have mechanisms to prevent horizontal gene transfer, including separated germ cells.) If there had been continued and extensive gene transfer, there would be a complex network with many ancestors, instead of a tree of life with sharply delineated lineages leading back to a LUCA. However, a LUCA can be identified, so horizontal transfers must have been relatively limited.\n\nOn the opposite, it has been remarked that the detection of Horizontal Gene Transfers could bring valuable phylogenetic and dating information.\n\nThe potential of HGT to be used for dating phylogenies has recently been confirmed.\n\nThe acquisition of new genes has the potential to disorganize the other genetic elements and hinder the function of the bacterial cell, thus affecting the competitiveness of bacteria. Consequently, bacterial adaptation lies in a conflict between the advantages of acquiring beneficial genes, and the need to maintain the organization of the rest of its genome. Horizontally transferred genes are typically concentrated in only ~1% of the chromosome (in regions called hotspots). This concentration increases with genome size and with the rate of transfer. Hotspots diversify by rapid gene turnover; their chromosomal distribution depends on local contexts (neighboring core genes), and content in mobile genetic elements. Hotspots concentrate most changes in gene repertoires, reduce the trade-off between genome diversification and organization, and should be treasure troves of strain-specific adaptive genes. Most mobile genetic elements and antibiotic resistance genes are in hotspots, but many hotspots lack recognizable mobile genetic elements and exhibit frequent homologous recombination at flanking core genes. Overrepresentation of hotspots with fewer mobile genetic elements in naturally transformable bacteria suggests that homologous recombination and horizontal gene transfer are tightly linked in genome evolution.\n\nThere is evidence for historical horizontal transfer of the following genes:\n\n"}
{"id": "9633736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9633736", "title": "Insulin tolerance test", "text": "Insulin tolerance test\n\nAn insulin tolerance test (ITT) is a medical diagnostic procedure during which insulin is injected into a patient's vein, after which blood glucose is measured at regular intervals. This procedure is performed to assess pituitary function, adrenal function, and sometimes for other purposes. An ITT is usually ordered and interpreted by endocrinologists.\n\nInsulin injections are intended to induce extreme hypoglycemia below 2.2 mmol/l (40 mg/dl). Patient must have symptomatic neuroglycopenia to trigger counter-regulatory cascade. Glucose levels below 2.2 mmol/L are insufficient absent symptoms. The brain must register low glucose levels. In response, adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) and growth hormone (GH) are released as a part of the stress mechanism. ACTH elevation causes the adrenal cortex to release cortisol. Normally, both cortisol and GH serve as counterregulatory hormones, opposing the action of insulin, i.e. acting against the hypoglycemia.\n\nThus ITT is considered to be the gold standard for assessing the integrity of the hypothalamic–pituitary–adrenal axis. Sometimes ITT is performed to assess the peak adrenal capacity, e.g. before surgery. It is assumed that the ability to respond to insulin induced hypoglycemia translates into appropriate cortisol rise in the stressful event of acute illness or major surgery.\n\nThis test is potentially very dangerous and must be undertaken with great care, because it can iatrogenically induce the equivalent of a diabetic coma. A health professional must attend it at all times.\n\nOther provocation tests which cause much less release of growth hormone include the use of glucagon, arginine and clonidine.\n\nSide effects include sweating, palpitations, loss of consciousness and rarely convulsions due to severe hypoglycemia which may cause coma. If extreme symptoms are present, glucose should be given intravenously. In subjects with no adrenal reserve an Addisonian crisis may occur. For cortisol stimulation, the ACTH stimulation test has much less risk.\n\n\nThe test cannot be interpreted unless hypoglycaemia (< 2.2 mmol/L (or) < 40 mg/dl) is achieved.\n\nAn adequate cortisol response is defined as a rise to greater than 550 nmol/L. Patients with impaired cortisol responses (less than 550 but greater than 400 nmol/L) may only need steroid cover for major illnesses or stresses. An adequate GH response occurs with an absolute response exceeding 20 mU/L.\n\nThere will be a rise of less than 170 nmol/L above the fluctuations of basal levels of cortisol.\n\n"}
{"id": "4190446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4190446", "title": "Invalidity Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1933 (shelved)", "text": "Invalidity Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1933 (shelved)\n\nInvalidity Insurance (Agriculture) Convention, 1933 (shelved) is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1933:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to compulsory invalidity insurance...\n\nThe concepts included in the convention were revised and included in ILO Convention C128, Invalidity, Old-Age and Survivors' Benefits Convention, 1967.\n\nPrior to its being shelved, the convention had been ratified by ten states.\n\n"}
{"id": "44047873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44047873", "title": "Izmirlian Medical Center", "text": "Izmirlian Medical Center\n\nIzmirlian Medical Center (), is a medical center and a research foundation located in the Armenian capital Yerevan. Opened in 1986, it is located in the Kanaker-Zeytun district and currently operates under the supervision of the Mother See of Holy Etchmiadzin. The Surb Nerses Mets Research and Education Center (), operates within the medical center.\n\nThe medical center-institute was originally opened in 1986 in the Nor Zeytun neighbourhood of Yerevan as a center of proctology named after L. Nazarov. Between 1998 and 2000, the center was redeveloped by the New York-based Armenian General Benevolent Union to include a section for plastic surgery and other surgical specialties. In 2000, the center was granted to the Mother See of Holy Etchmiadzin and renamed as \"Surb Nerses Mets Medical Center\", after the Catholicos of All Armenians Nerses I of the 4 the century.\n\nIn 2013, the center was entirely redeveloped through donations from the \"Izmirlian Family Foundation\". US$12 million has been allocated for the redevelopment process and the construction of a new building. The hospital of the center was renamed in honor of benefactor Dikran Izmirlian. Other Armenian benefactors from Brazil, United States and France have also contributed in the redevelopment of the center.\n\nWith a capacity of 139 beds, currently the medical center-institute has 15 sections:\n\nResearches in the center are mainly conducted in the fields of urology, proctology, gastroenterology, etc. The center also hosts several conferences in urology throughout the year.\n"}
{"id": "30787901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30787901", "title": "Janine O'Leary Cobb", "text": "Janine O'Leary Cobb\n\nJanine O'Leary Cobb is a women's health activist and educator, and the author of one of the first popular books on menopause intended for a mainstream audience, \"Understanding Menopause\" (first published in 1988, now in its 6th edition, published 2005). Cobb is recognized widely as a pioneer in the women's health movement in North America and has won critical recognition for her work in the field.\n\nIn 1984 she founded the popular health newsletter, \"A Friend Indeed\", dedicated to highlighting the increasing medicalization of menopause, and to breaking the taboo of silence that still hung over many important women's health issues, such as menstruation, menopause and breast cancer. The publication continued to be released bi-monthly under the stewardship of other editors until 2006.\n\nCobb was previously a professor with Vanier College, Montreal and is currently a Board member with Breast Cancer Action Montreal. She is also a contributor to Our Bodies, Ourselves, the groundbreaking women's health collective. She lives in Montreal, Quebec, Canada.\n"}
{"id": "52561613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52561613", "title": "Jeanne H. Freeland-Graves", "text": "Jeanne H. Freeland-Graves\n\nJeanne H. Freeland-Graves is an American nutritionist, currently the Bess Heflin Centennial Professor at University of Texas at Austin.\n"}
{"id": "46459016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46459016", "title": "John Robert Hume", "text": "John Robert Hume\n\nJohn Robert Hume (c.1781–1857) was a Scottish surgeon and physician. He is cited as an example of a 19th-century medical career that arrived at a high position in the profession, without early qualifications.\n\nBorn in Renfrewshire in 1781 or 1782, he was the son of Joseph Hume, a medical practitioner at Hamilton. He studied medicine at Glasgow in 1795, 1798, and at Edinburgh in 1796–7. He entered the medical service of the army as a hospital mate, was in Holland in 1799, and joined the 92nd Regiment of Foot as assistant surgeon in 1800. He was in Egypt in 1801. In that campaign he served as surgeon on HMS \"Ceres\". Some of his journals for his visit to Cyprus (including Larnaka and Limassol) were printed.\n\nHume served in the Walcheren Expedition in 1809, and the Peninsula War. During that period he was surgeon to Arthur Wellesley.\n\nHume took part in the 1815 Waterloo campaign, on the medical stall as a deputy inspector. He attended the Duchess of Richmond's ball on 15 June, the eve of the Battle of Quatre Bras. On 18 June, the day of the Battle of Waterloo, he amputated the legs of Sir Alexander Gordon, who died, and of Henry William Paget, 2nd Earl of Uxbridge, out of a number of operations. The following day he awoke the Duke with the casualty list. He also attended the dying William Howe De Lancey.\nThe University of St Andrews conferred on Hume the degree of M.D. on 12 January 1816, and on 22 December 1819 he was admitted a licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians. On his own account, he had previously been in France with the Duke of Wellington. From half-pay, he was made an Inspector of Hospitals in 1820.\n\nSettling in London, Hume became personal physician to the Duke. His patients included Marianne Patterson in 1824, shortly to marry the Duke's brother Richard. He travelled with the Duke to St Petersburg in 1826, and was present at the Duke's duel with the Earl of Winchelsea, fought in 1829 as part of the Catholic Emancipation controversy. He was made a commissioner for the licensing of Middlesex asylums in 1828.\n\nHume was created D.C.L. at Oxford on 13 June 1834, the Duke being then chancellor of the university. He was admitted a fellow of the College of Physicians on 9 July 1836, and on the following 1 September was appointed one of the metropolitan commissioners in lunacy. Following the resignation of William Frederick Chambers, Hume at this period also became Examining Physician to the East India Company. He was sufficiently well known to feature in the early writings of the Brontë family.\n\nHume was attacked and defended in \"The Lancet\" of the later 1840s, with other commissioners of lunacy, accused of being bedridden with gout, and a \"sinecurist\"; though he was active in inspections. He subsequently became inspector general of hospitals, and was made C.B. 16 August 1850. He died at his house in Curzon Street, Mayfair, London, on 1 March 1857, aged 75.\n\nHume married Elizabeth, daughter of David Limond, at Ayr on 1 July 1804. Their daughter Elizabeth married Archibald Campbell of Glendaruel.\n\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "38484517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38484517", "title": "Kathe Perez", "text": "Kathe Perez\n\nKathe S. Perez is an speech pathologist who has focused her work on helping those in the transgender community discover their true voice through the use of her voice feminization program.\n\nPerez was born on August 22 in San Juan, Puerto Rico and spent her childhood in West Haven, Conn. She is founder and president of Exceptional Voice, Inc. which has headquarters in Denver, Colo.\n\nOf mixed heritage (Mexican-Irish-German-American) and from a family of modest means, Perez felt a bit different living in affluent Connecticut. From this early outsider experience, Perez sought to discover her own true voice. Early on, she explored her talent as a singer, but she soon found that her skills as a special education teacher helping young children with learning and emotional difficulties find their voices best fit her, that experience lead her to pursue her graduate degree in speech pathology. During her graduate studies, she discovered her now current passion for the human voice – speech and voice therapy. Kathe has done extensive graduate and PhD work in the field, and has helped people from all corners of the globe find their true voice.\n\nPerez currently resides with her partner Kevin. Her two adult daughters share her passion of advocacy and non-profit projects for the underserved populations. In her free time, Kathe enjoys running (she ran four half marathons in one year), snowshoeing, hiking, gardening, traveling, live theater and reading.\n\nPerez is an expert in the care and training of the human voice, and for more than 25 years she has helped thousands find their true voices. As founder and president of Exceptional Voice, Inc., she specializes in giving those in the transgender (TG) community the voice training and tools they need to live their lives to the fullest and most authentic expression of their true gender.\n\nA certified speech-language pathologist, Perez developed a voice feminization training system that has helped individuals from all over the world express themselves as the women they truly are. From her 30-Day Crash Course Transgender Voice Feminization Program and YouTube channel to one-on-one sessions, Kathe has given thousands of TG women a variety of resources they can use to transform their voices.\n\nPerez has presented and demonstrated her voice feminization techniques and exercises at conferences around the world including, Be-All, California Dreamin’, Colorado Gold Rush, Esprit, Fantasia Fair, First Event Transgender Conference, Holiday en Femme, IFGE Conference, Keystone Conference, and Southern Comfort Conference.\n\nShe has co-authored a number of scholarly articles for professional publications. She collaborated with noted voice coach Lynn Skinner for the voice feminization audio training series \"Fundamentals of Your Feminine Voice\" [http://www.voicefeminization.com/, which has received international recognition and acclaim.\n\nShe also provides speech, voice and public speaking training programs for companies and small businesses as well as individuals such as singers, actors, broadcasters, auctioneers and teachers. She has taught graduate and undergraduate courses at the University of Colorado Boulder, Metropolitan State College Denver and the University of Northern Colorado Greeley. Nationally, she has conducted customized workshops, seminars and training programs for professionals who wish to improve their voices.\n\nIn 1993, Perez undertook doctorate coursework for speech and voice motor learning at the University of Colorado Boulder. She received her Master of Arts degree from the University of Colorado-Boulder in 1986. She studied under famed Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences Professor Lorraine Ramig, PhD, at the University of Colorado-Boulder and interned with Robert Sataloff, MD. She is a certified speech-language pathologist and a member of the American Speech-Language and Hearing Association.\n\nPerez has written for a number of professional publications, including chapters on clinical voice therapy and clinical voice laboratory in the much-acclaimed textbook, Professional Voice: The Science and Art of Clinical Care (2005) by Robert Sataloff. In addition, she has contributed to \"Vocal Health and Pedagogy\" (2006), also by Sataloff. Her research appears in a number of scholarly papers that have been published in professional journals.\n"}
{"id": "10115621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10115621", "title": "Keep a Child Alive", "text": "Keep a Child Alive\n\nKeep a Child Alive (KCA) is a nonprofit organization that provides healthcare, housing, and other support services to HIV/AIDS-affected communities in Africa and India. Co-founded by Leigh Blake and Alicia Keys, the organization aims to \"realize the end of AIDS for children and families, by combating the physical, social and economic impacts of HIV.\" Keep a Child Alive organizes the annual Black Ball, a fundraiser gala, established in 2004, where celebrities and philanthropists gather to support and raise awareness for the cause. Since the first Black Ball, the organization has raised over $28.7 million for HIV/AIDS treatment.\n\nKCA cofounder and President Leigh Blake was first inspired to start this initiative in 2003 after an encounter at the AIDS Research and Family Care Clinic, a place which she helped fund, in Mombasa, Kenya. A woman named Anne brought her 3-year-old son Brine for medical care, refusing to leave until she received the “drugs that you have in America for your children.” Blake, who had already become involved in the AIDS epidemic using her background in the music and film industry to co-found the Red Hot Organization and Artists Against AIDS Worldwide, told Anne that she would pay for the drugs. In so doing, the idea for Keep a Child Alive was born. The drugs were about $12000 a year through the New York University Hospital AIDS Research Department, which at that time was overseeing care at the clinic through Dr. Shaffiq Essajee. It was not long before word started to spread and friends of Blake and Essajee offered to make contributions. The first donor was Peter Edge and soon, KCA co-founder and Global Ambassador Alicia Keys joined the cause, sponsoring children along with Iman and many others. In 2003, Keep a Child Alive was officially founded. The clinic in Kenya that led to Blake's vision became a model for other facilities that KCA now aspires to build throughout Africa and the developing world.\n\nKCA cofounder Alicia Keys was first affected by the HIV/AIDs crisis at 8 years old when her mother's friend died from the disease. She discovered first-hand the extensive impact of the AIDS epidemic years later when she visited South Africa, a trip that was the impetus to cofounding Keep a Child Alive. Keys had befriended AIDS activist Leigh Blake, who had reached out to her and helped raise her awareness to the global impact of HIV/AIDS. Keys and Leigh visited South African clinics with HIV-infected mothers and children, where Keys encountered the lack of resources and education on the disease present in the communities. Keys visited other African countries such as Uganda and Kenya to promote care for children affected by AIDS. Her work in Africa was documented in the documentary \"Alicia in Africa: Journey to the Motherland\".\n\nKeep a Child Alive brings attention to the already 30 million people that have been killed by AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa and the millions more that are threatened and orphaned by the disease. Currently there are 33.3 million people living with HIV/AIDS, including 2.3 million children under the age of 15. Despite AIDS being a preventable and treatable disease, 2.9 million people died from AIDS related causes last year, including 380,000 children under the age of 15—the equivalent of one child dying per minute.\n\nKCA's efforts continue to focus in particular on sub-Saharan Africa as it remains the worst-affected region in the world. With a little more than one-tenth of the world's population living in this area, it is home to almost 64 percent of all people living with HIV—of the overall 24.5 million infected, 2 million are children. While access to ARV therapy has increased more than eightfold since the end of 2003, only 30 percent of people in need of treatment receive it.\n\nIn addition to improving access to ARV therapy, KCA offers a range of support services including nutritional projects, diagnostic testing, training of health care workers, counseling, and funding sites where AIDS orphans can be cared for. There are currently 14.9 million AIDS orphans in Africa alone, 16.6 worldwide.\n\nKeep a Child Alive currently provides funding to 10 clinical and orphan care sites in 5 countries: India, Kenya, Rwanda, Uganda and South Africa with past funding to additional projects in Ethiopia, Mali, India, Kenya, South Africa and Zimbabwe. With KCA funding, these projects have been successfully scaled to new levels of service and self-sustainability within their communities.\n\nSpirit of a Child<br>The Spirit of a Child campaign was one of KCA's first major endeavors to engage the public through \"groundbreaking advertising and media campaigns\" that \"reinvent the way the public perceives their role in the issue.\" The campaign, which was created for KCA by TBWA/Chiat Day and photographed by Marc Baptiste, was launched on November 3, 2005 at the annual Black Ball fundraiser. \"Spirit of a Child\" is the brainchild of Patrick O'Neill and Nikki Weinstein and features the children of Agape Orphanage paired with such celebrities as Kanye West, David Byrne, Lorraine Bracco, Lenny Kravitz, Cynthia Nixon, Nas, John Legend and others.\n\nI Am African<br>The \"I Am African\" campaign stirred up controversy with its appropriation of tribal markings and face-paint worn by noted celebrities like Gisele Bündchen, Gwyneth Paltrow, David Bowie, Sarah Jessica Parker, and Sting. The concept was created in the summer of 2006 by model and cosmetics entrepreneur Iman to reflect the idea that Africa is the mother continent of all human beings. Photographed by Michael Thompson, the ads initially appeared in a fashion supplement to Condé Nast magazines in September and has since received both positive and negative attention in the press, blogs, and among other social activists.\n\nBecome A Drug Dealer<br>Become A Drug Dealer is another KCA campaign that gives people the opportunity to purchase the drugs necessary to keep a child alive either by buying a T-shirt with the words \"Drug Dealer\" printed on it or making the typical monthly donation.\n\nBuy Life<br>The Buy Life campaign seeks to change consumer behavior, to reposition consumerism and the act of buying in the nonprofit environment through social media. With the tagline \"The More You Buy, The More You Save,\" created by TBWA/Chiat Day, and photographed by Markus Klinko and Indrani, this series of portraits of notable celebrities in T-shirts with personalized scanable barcodes, turns the commercialism of celebrity packaging into a literal bar code that consumers can scan to buy life for the ultimate instant gratification. The campaign features celebrities including Katie Holmes, Kim Kardashian, Usher, Ryan Seacrest, Alicia Keys, Jaden and Willow Smith, Swizz Beatz, Serena Williams, and styling by GK Reid. KCA is the first charity to use barcode technology on smartphone devices to engage the public and encourage the purchase of life.\n\nDigital Death<br> The Digital Death campaign launched December 1, 2010 for World AIDS Day with shocking images of celebrities posed in coffins, photographed by Markus Klinko & Indrani, with taglines \"Kim Kardashian is Dead\", \"Ryan Seacrest is Dead\", etc. created by TBWA/Chiat Day. The image art is accompanied by performance art/interactive dimensions, with the stars sacrificing their digital lives on Twitter and Facebook until their fans donate one million dollars to buy their lives back. Among the other celebrities featured in the campaign were Alicia Keys, Lady Gaga, Justin Timberlake, Usher and Serena Williams. Daphne Guinness explains, \"This campaign is so striking and draws attention not only to the AIDS disaster in Africa but also to how we have lost our way in what we care about.\" The million dollar donation goal was reached in six days.\n\nKCA maintains that the reason it is able to give such a large percentage of monthly donations is because it relies on larger contributions from foundations, corporations, and major individual donors to support management and administrative costs. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Donna Karan, Time Warner Cable, and Maybelline are just a few of KCA's many corporate partners. The full list can be accessed here. \n\nIn Fall 2008, Keep a Child Alive launched a mobile donating campaign with Co-Founder and Global Ambassador Alicia Keys. Keys raised over $40,000 in micro-donations by asking concert goers to text ALIVE to 90999. The mobile giving campaign was created through a partnership between Keep a Child Alive, the Mobile Giving Foundation and Mgive.\n\n"}
{"id": "25154811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25154811", "title": "Keisai Aoki", "text": "Keisai Aoki\n\nKeisai Aoki (real name Yasujiro Aoki) was born in Tokushima Prefecture on April 8, 1893. At the age of 16 he developed leprosy and everything did not help, including the pilgrimage of 88 holy places of Shikoku (at that time it was believed to be of help). In 1916 he entered the Oshima Leprosarium and was baptized in 1918 as a Christian. He helped with missionary work, and he sent a letter to Hannah Riddell since he was worried about women's temptation. At Kusatsu, he met Riddell who was vacationing there and decided to go to Kaishun Hospital, where she was the director. He helped with her missionary work in the facility, which he described as having an almost monastic atmosphere. \n\nDuring his time at the hospital, he met Aiko Tamaki, who he became attracted to. This, however, worried him because this was against Riddell's strict policy of gender segregation. He decided to go to Okinawa to pursue missionary work at the strong suggestion of Riddell. It is not clear whether Riddell discovered Keisai's affection for Tamaki or whether he was asked to leave because of it. However, Keisai, himself, described Riddell's devotion to her patients even those who left under difficult circumstances, sending them letters and gifts after their departure.\n\nWith missionary Arato, he discovered people with leprosy living in caves or other places, first on Iejima Island, and later on Mainland Okinawa, and they gave them clothes, food and spiritual ministry. At one place, village people burned down the houses of people with leprosy. They also discovered about 40 people forced to live in a small island called Jalma Island. Later they landed at Yagaji Island (some sources say Gayachi Island), where they acquired a piece of land, which Keisai eventually used to found the Kunigami (later Okingawa) Airakuen Sanatorium Okinawa Airakuen Sanatorium in 1938. In 1957, he became an official missionary of Okinawa Seikokai (Episcopal Church). On March 6, 1969, he died of myocardial infarction.\n\nKeisai also composed many short poems (haiku). These include the following:\n\nAmong the Japanese prefectures, leprosy had the highest incidence in Okinawa　Prefecture in 1925, 1935 and 1940. The Okinawa Government was inconsistent concerning the establishment of leprosaria. In 1931, Miyako Hoyoen Sanatorium was established on Miyako Island, but it was met with strong opposition from the mainland Okinawans. Rioting and burning of houses of leprosy patients occurred. With the help of various organizations and individuals such as Kensuke Mitsuda and Fumio Hayashi, the Kunigami Airakuen, now the Okinawa Airakuen Sanatorium, was established due to the efforts and leadership of Keisai Aoki.\n\n"}
{"id": "2895667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2895667", "title": "Kenneth L. Curtis", "text": "Kenneth L. Curtis\n\nKenneth L. Curtis (born August 3, 1965) is a former college student from Connecticut who on October 30, 1987 shot and killed his estranged girlfriend, and shot himself in the head. He was charged criminally for the killing, but originally was found mentally incompetent to stand trial, and had the criminal charges dismissed. Years later, he enrolled in college, and pursued studies as a pre-med student. He again was charged with the killing, found competent, and subsequently pleaded guilty to manslaughter.\n\nThe case (\"Connecticut vs. Kenneth Curtis\") changed the views in the justice system of mental competence to stand trial. Prior to this case, those given such an assessment were viewed as not restorable, and charges would be dismissed in favor of periodic reviews used only in determining the need for a civil commitment.\n\nOn October 30, 1987, Curtis shot his estranged girlfriend Donna Kalson in a bar parking lot in Stratford, Connecticut, killing her. He then shot himself in a murder-suicide attempt. He also injured one of Kalson's friends who was in her company in the process. After a lengthy hospitalization in which he was on advanced life support, he survived his own shot, leaving him severely disabled. He was partially brain damaged and paralyzed.\n\nAfter being released from the hospital, Curtis was charged with Kalson's murder and the attempted murder of her friend. But following his recovery, more than a year after the incident, he was given a mental competence evaluation to determine if he could stand trial for his crimes. During the evaluation, it was found that his ability to read or understand were impaired, and he had no memory of the incident. As a result, he was ruled mentally incompetent to stand trial. But he was not ordered to be confined to a mental institution. He was allowed to return home. Kalson's family was initially unaware of this.\n\nThis did not sit well with Donna Kalson's parents when they learned, following a tip, that Curtis was attending a local college. The Kalsons arranged for their own investigation of Curtis. Reporters for News Channel 8 observed Curtis taking classes at a local college with an apparent goal of a career in psychiatry. His grades were mostly As and Bs; his grade point average after receiving 48 credits was 3.3, information that was obtained from a search warrant on Curtis's grades at three colleges executed by Stratford police. His actions on campus, including a conversation the reporters had directly with Curtis, were filmed by reporters. While Curtis's defense team called many doctors to testify on his behalf, the video produced by the network was viewed as overwhelming evidence in favor of declaring him mentally competent.\n\nCurtis's defense team attempted to fight the actions taken against him, claiming that he was already declared incompetent and could not be tried due to a Connecticut law that required such closure of all cases of this type after 18 months. They took their battles all the way to the Connecticut Supreme Court. But double jeopardy laws and other laws were not considered to be applicable, and Curtis was ordered to stand trial.\n\nCurtis pleaded guilty in 1999 to manslaughter and received a 20-year prison sentence, the maximum allowed for charges of manslaughter.\n\nCurtis was paroled in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "9025310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9025310", "title": "List of UN numbers 3001 to 3100", "text": "List of UN numbers 3001 to 3100\n\nThe UN numbers from UN3001 to UN3100 as assigned by the United Nations Committee of Experts on the Transport of Dangerous Goods.\n\n"}
{"id": "11447092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11447092", "title": "List of deaths on eight-thousanders", "text": "List of deaths on eight-thousanders\n\nThe eight-thousanders are the 14 mountains that rise more than above sea level; they are all in the Himalayan and Karakoram mountain ranges.\n\nThis is a list of mountaineers who have died on these mountains.\n\nMount Everest, Earth's highest mountain, has been host to numerous tragedies; over 297 have died on the mountain, with deaths occurring every year since 1978. The most notable events occurred during the 1922 British Mount Everest Expedition, 1970 Everest Disaster, 1974 Everest Disaster, 1996 Everest Disaster, 2014 Mount Everest avalanche, and 2015 Mount Everest avalanches. See the complete list of people who died climbing Mount Everest.\n\nK2 is the world's second highest mountain.\n\nKangchenjunga is the third highest mountain in the world.\n\nLhotse is the fourth highest mountain in the world.\n\nMakalu is the world's fifth highest mountain.\n\nCho Oyu is the world's sixth highest mountain.\n\"Updated and completed up to 2010.\"\n\nDhaulagiri I is the world's seventh highest mountain.\n\nManaslu is the world's eighth highest mountain.\n\nNanga Parbat is the world's ninth highest mountain.\n\nAnnapurna I is the world's 10th highest mountain.\n\nGasherbrum I, also known as Hidden Peak or K5, is the world's 11th highest mountain.\n\nBroad Peak is the world's 12th highest mountain.\n\nGasherbrum II, also known as K4, is the world's 13th highest mountain.\n\nShishapangma, also called Gosainthān, is the world's 14th highest mountain.\n\"Updated and complete through 2014.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "58621622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58621622", "title": "List of pathogens by size", "text": "List of pathogens by size\n\nThis is a list of pathogens (human or otherwise) in order of size.\n\n"}
{"id": "42729132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42729132", "title": "Ma3looma", "text": "Ma3looma\n\nMa3looma is an Egyptian website aimed to raise awareness about sexual and reproductive health (SRH) issues among the Egyptian youth. The website addresses the current problem that Egyptian youth/students are insufficiently educated about SRH issues due to their relatives/teachers being embarrassed or unprepared to discuss this issue due to social taboos. Ma3looma uses various social media platforms as well as its own website to expose at-risk populations and the Egyptian youth coming to age in a digital era “… to anonymous, accurate, and non-judgmental information about their health and rights using OneWorld’s mobile phone and web-based question-and-answer service, which is managed and staffed by trained counselors from the Egyptian Family Health Service (EFHS).” Ma3looma is operating via Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube.\n\nMa3looma is funded by the Ford Foundation and is a project within One World's Mobile4Good portfolio.\n\nThere is a danger of inattention to HIV/AIDS that lurks within the countries of the Middle East and North Africa, specifically Egypt, that could lead to a repeat of situations seen in “Indonesia, Africa or China where initial disregard or delayed reaction has ended in large number of orphans, a shortage of workers and huge health expenditures to care for HIV/AIDS patients.” Young people worldwide are considered an ‘at-risk’ population due to participation in risky behaviors such as taking drugs, experimenting sexually, and failing to use condoms. Sexual education is a necessity among youth worldwide and Egyptian youth is no exception.\n\nIn Egypt, adolescent SRH education is controversial and is opposed by some parents, religious and community leaders, policymakers, service providers, and young people due to social taboos and the belief that these issues are too embarrassing to discuss in public. The lack of continuity within the society leads to school-based or home-based SRH education to be insufficient in either the amount of information and/or the accuracy of that information. This obviously creates a challenge for young Egyptians, ages 10–29 which compose 40 percent of the Egyptian population, to attain important and accurate SRH information to stay healthy and safe.\n\nEnter Ma3looma which means \"a piece of information,\" in Arabic. \nThis website uses various social media platforms as well as its own website to expose at-risk populations and the Egyptian youth coming to age in a digital era “… to anonymous, accurate, and non-judgmental information about their health and rights using OneWorld’s mobile phone and web-based question-and-answer service, which is managed and staffed by trained counselors from the Egyptian Family Health Service (EFHS).”\n\nSupport from the website comes from \"a collaborative network of actors, including OneWorld UK, the Egypt-based Centre for Development Services (CDS), which is responsible for the financial management of the project, the Egyptian Family Health Society (EFHS), which manages the mobile phone messaging service, as well as the UNFPA's Youth Peer Network (Y-PEER), Friends of Life (FoL), the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights (EIPR), and Qabila TV.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "10161561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10161561", "title": "Medical Law International", "text": "Medical Law International\n\nMedical Law International is a peer-reviewed law review that covers issues in medical law, bioethics, and health governance. It was established in 1993 and is currently published by SAGE Publications. The editors-in-chief are Shawn Harmon (Edinburgh Law School) and Paula Case (Liverpool Law School). The journal was established by Dianne Longley and Vivienne Harpwood and was edited by Shaun Pattinson from 2005 to 2011.\n"}
{"id": "21687337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21687337", "title": "Medicines for Malaria Venture", "text": "Medicines for Malaria Venture\n\nMedicines for Malaria Venture (MMV), a not-for-profit public-private partnership, was established as a foundation in Switzerland in 1999. Its mission is to reduce the burden of malaria in disease-endemic countries by discovering, developing and facilitating delivery of new, effective and affordable antimalarial drugs. Its vision is a world in which these innovative medicines will cure and protect the vulnerable and under-served populations at risk of malaria, and help to ultimately eradicate this terrible disease.\n\nMMV was launched in 1999, with initial seed finance of US$4 million from the Government of Switzerland, Department for International Development (UK), the Government of the Netherlands, The World Bank, and Rockefeller Foundation.\n\nIn 1999, the pipeline for new antimalarial drugs was virtually empty. The possibility of profit in antimalarial drug development was considered too low to attract pharmaceutical investment. Malaria was killing 1-2 million people a year, most of them children under five and pregnant women from the poorest regions of the world.\n\nThe drugs they were using no longer worked, and the need to act in the face of a projected public health disaster due to escalating drug resistance, provided reason to launch MMV and has since proved that the public-private partnership model is an efficient way to bridge the gap in new drugs for malaria.\n\nMMV is governed by a Board of Directors chosen for their scientific, medical and public health expertise in malaria and related fields, their research and management competence as well as their experience in business, finance and fundraising. The Chairman of the Board of MMV is Ray Chambers. MMV recently established a Board of Directors in North America.\n\nMMV's project portfolio focuses on delivering efficacious medicines that are affordable, accessible, and appropriate for use in malaria endemic areas. Specifically, the goal is to develop products that will provide: efficacy against drug-resistant strains of \"Plasmodium falciparum\", potential for intermittent treatments (infants and pregnancy), safety in small children (less than 6 months old), safety in pregnancy, efficacy against \"Plasmodium vivax\" (including radical cure), efficacy against severe malaria, and transmission-blocking treatment.\n\nSome anti-malarial agents are known to have some side effects, which limits their use for mono-therapies only. This poses a limitation for their use in combination therapy, for overcoming drug resistance. Also, some of the side effects may lead to a low level of compliance by the patient, i.e. not completing the full course of treatment. This creates conditions within the patient that enable drug resistance to arise or even to become prevalent. In view of such situations it is often recommended that novel anti-malarial agents need to be discovered and developed.\n\nDrug resistance occurs for several reasons, often as a natural consequence of gene mutations and selection, as a consequence of drug-efflux mechanisms, or due to drug modifying enzymes. Under conditions of medical treatment, mutants that are resistant to the drug may escape the drug's action, survive and multiply further. This is one of the reasons why combination therapies are often essential for treating malarial infections and most infectious diseases. In view of the contagious nature of malaria, spread by the mosquito, drug resistance is considered to be a serious public health issue.\n\nInvestigational new drugs (IND) are clinical candidates that are safe and efficacious in the animal models of infection. Usually, these are new chemical entities (NCE) with a novel mechanism of action. Investigational new drugs have to be approved by the national or international medical regulatory authorities, for clinical testing and development in humans.\nIND's are usually discovered and developed to overcome the limitations of drugs that are or have been in clinical use.\n\nResearch and Development Centres (R&D) for infectious diseases usually are staffed with scientists and physicians in the fields of biology, chemistry, physics, mathematics, pharmacology, veterinary science and medicine. Depending on the number of projects, it is a common practice for these research and development Centres to be staffed with about 150 scientists and physicians, with an organizational framework that is appropriate for pharmaceutical research and development. In very specialized areas, the services of contract research organizations are exploited. Thereby new assets and intellectual property are developed and patented, and are published in leading scientific and medical journals. Keynote lectures are presented at scientific and medical conferences in the field of infectious diseases, worldwide.\n\nIn view of the similarities between the malaria parasite species that affect humans and other parasite species that affect animals, the high scope for synergy in discovering new medicines for veterinary infections is of special significance and importance. This is of special interest for live-stock such as cattle, poultry, and companion animals.\n\nMMV works in partnership to ensure the life-saving antimalarials emerging from its research-and-development pipeline do not suffer undue delays in reaching patients in need. MMV's access team focuses on assuring acceptance of new medicines, expanding reach to vulnerable patients and measuring and evaluating impact and need.\n\nMMV started the Open Source Malaria project, which encourages those interested to share procedures and results of open source research. The Open Source Malaria project received worldwide media attention after helping, together with researchers at the University of Sydney, to supervise high school students at Sydney Grammar School who adapted a synthesis of Daraprim (pyrimethamine), using a less hazardous method to improve safety, to illustrate the ability of enthusiastic amateurs to produce this drug. Daraprim has been marketed in the U.S. at $750 per pill due to non-patent exclusivity restrictions; the students synthesized it for under $20 USD.\n\n"}
{"id": "46566967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46566967", "title": "Men's Dress Reform Party", "text": "Men's Dress Reform Party\n\nThe Men's Dress Reform Party (MDRP) was a reform movement in interwar Britain. While the party's main concerns were the impact of clothes on men's health and hygiene, their mission also aimed to increase the variety and choice in men's clothing.\n\nThe injuries and casualties of World War I shifted the public's focus to the capabilities and general health of the human body, and a general concern for the social and medical impacts of clothing grew. The New Health Society, an entity formed to effectuate change in these areas, was composed of a group of professionals led by Alfred Charles Jordan who wanted to improve the overall health of adults and children. They pushed for more exercise and fresh air, improved diets, and improved conditions in homes and workplaces. In 1927, Sir Arbuthnot Lane, a co-founder of the New Health Society, formed the Clothing Subcommittee, a subcommittee within the society focused on the health impacts of dress. On June 12, 1929 this subcommittee officially separated from the New Health Society to form the Men's Dress Reform Party through an address to the public in London, England. It read: \n\"Men and women, old and young, rich and poor… interested in healthier and better clothes for men…[and to] reform their clothes with as much profit to health and appearance as women have recently achieved.\"\n\nAlfred Charles Jordan, the founder of the New Health Society, and Dr. Caleb Williams Saleeby served as the leaders of the Clothing Subcommittee and led the charge to form their own party, with Williams as the Chairman of the Council of the Party. Founding members also included the members of the former Clothing Subcommittee, the Dean of St Paul's Cathedral, the Very Revd William Inge, Guy Kendall, Richard Sickert, Ernest Thesiger, and Leonard Williams.\n\nJohn Carl Flügel, a psychologist and member of the MDRP, claimed since the end of the 18th century men had been ignoring the colorful, elaborate, and varied forms of \"masculine ornamentation.\" He called this time the Great Masculine Renunciation. \"Man,\" Flügel claimed, had \"abandoned his claim to be considered beautiful. He henceforth aimed at only being useful.\" This view aligned with that of founding member of the Men's Dress Reform Party, William Ralph Inge. Inge believed that the democratic movements of the French Revolution had led to the increasingly dull male look: \"to escape the guillotine, dress as bourgeois as possible.\" The party's goals were largely reactions to circumstances brought on by World War I. They saw the everyday man as \"oppressed by capitalist labor\" and saw his clothes as \"depressing\" and lacking in creativity. The military-style uniformity of the interwar period had created a culture of men who were happy to see others dressed like them, as opposed to seeing those who craved individuality. World War I also brought increased unemployment, which caused state intervention, which the Men's Dress Reform Party saw as the \"oppression of professionals\". Lastly, the status of women in society was changing. Feminism was developing in the interwar period, as women had taken over for men during World War I in jobs, schools, and social life. This threatened men, causing some to feel \"like accessories to women\". The MDRP sought to improve the health and hygiene of men by changing their dress, as they saw the typical male styles and materials growing more restrictive and harmful, while women's clothing was increasingly becoming more \"emanicipating\" Their goals included \"freeing the neck\" by wearing the \"Byron collar\" which was an open-front collar, and gaining approval of the kilt as everyday wear for men. They also preferred blouses instead of shirts, sandals over shoes, and shorts or breeches to trousers. The party felt that hats and coats were only acceptable in appropriate weather, and that underclothing should be loose. Most of these rules were already acceptable for occasions such as vacation, but the party looked to make these the standard for town, professional, and evening dress.\n\nUnlike other organizations of the time, the MDRP had no formal journal. Instead, the group published articles about their reform ideas in \"Sunlight\", a quarterly journal produced by The Sunlight League. MDRP member Dr. Caleb Saleeby chaired the Sunlight League, and thus incurred the league's support of the Men's Dress Reform Party. A Design Committee was organized to construct designs of \"acceptable\" clothing, and received national attention for their recommendations. Members claimed that branches were forming in all corners of the world, including India, China, Australia, South Africa, the USA, New Zealand, Canada, and Europe in addition to the approximately 200 branches in the UK. These groups held social events, rallies, and debates, but the prevalence of such events decreased with the onset of World War II. In 1937, the Men's Dress Reform Party lost the support of the New Health Society due to financial trouble and eventual bankruptcy. Then, in 1940, the Sunlight League also dissipated after a bomb destroyed their offices and the death of its founder, Dr. Saleeby. After this period, the Men's Dress Reform Party largely ceased to exist.\n"}
{"id": "40815929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40815929", "title": "National Beer Day (United States)", "text": "National Beer Day (United States)\n\nNational Beer Day is celebrated in the United States every year on April 7, marking the day that the Cullen–Harrison Act was enacted after having been signed into law by President Franklin D. Roosevelt on March 22, 1933. This led to the Eighteenth Amendment being repealed on December 5, 1933, with ratification of the Twenty-first Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. April 6, the day prior to National Beer Day, is known as New Beer's Eve.\n\nUpon signing the legislation, Roosevelt made his famous remark, \"I think this would be a good time for a beer.\" The law went into effect on April 7 of that year in states that had enacted their own law allowing such sales. The beer could contain up to 3.2% alcohol by weight (or 4.05% by volume) compared to the 0.5% limit of the Volstead Act, because 3.2% was considered too low to produce intoxication.\n\nPeople across the country responded by gathering outside breweries, some beginning the night before. On that first day, 1.5 million barrels of beer were consumed, inspiring the future holiday. Today, April 7 is recognized as National Beer Day and April 6 is known as New Beer's Eve.\n\nThe Cullen-Harrison Act was not the official end of prohibition in the US (that happened on December 5, 1933 when the 21st Amendment was ratified). What the Cullen-Harrison Act did do was redefine an \"intoxicating beverage\" under the Volstead Act. As such, April 7 is a beer specific holiday and should not be confused with Repeal Day celebrated on December 5.\n\nNational Beer Day was first created in 2009 by Justin Smith of Richmond, Virginia. After much prodding from his friend, Mike Connolly, Smith started a Facebook page that was noticed by Colorado Beer Examiner, Eli Shayotovich. Smith's promotion of the new holiday via various social media outlets was rewarded when the beer drinking app, \"Untappd\", created a badge for National Beer Day that rewarded participants that checked a beer into the app on April 7. National Beer Day has since been trending every year on April 7 using the hashtag #NationalBeerDay.\n\nNational Beer Day was officially recognized by Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe in 2017.\n\nNational Beer Day was officially recognized on the Congressional Record by Congressman Dave Brat in 2017.\n\nIn 2018, House Joint Resolution 90 was introduced in Virginia General Assembly to officially recognize National Beer Day in the Commonwealth of Virginia.\n"}
{"id": "19862537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19862537", "title": "National Bone Health Campaign", "text": "National Bone Health Campaign\n\nThe national bone health campaign teaches young girls habits for improving their bone health by encouraging them to eat more foods with calcium and vitamin D, and participating in physical activities that help the bones.\n\nThe National Bone Health Campaign began in 1999 as a public/private partnership among the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the Department of Health and Human Services' Office on Women’s Health (OWH), and the National Osteoporosis Foundation (NOF).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55629067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55629067", "title": "National Institutes of Health (Philippines)", "text": "National Institutes of Health (Philippines)\n\nThe National Institutes of Health (NIH) is the national health research center of the Philippines that is responsible for biomedical and public health research.\n\nThe National Institutes of Health was created on January 26, 1996 by the UP Board of Regents to enhance research undertakings of UP Manila with regards to public health. It serves as an institutional home of a network of researchers and research institutions. Eventually, NIH was established as the national health research center of the Philippines through the Health Research and Development Act of 1998, otherwise known as Republic Act 8503.\n"}
{"id": "24861278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24861278", "title": "National Patient Safety Foundation", "text": "National Patient Safety Foundation\n\nThe National Patient Safety Foundation (NPSF) was an independent not-for-profit organization created in 1997 to engage key stakeholders to advance patient safety and health care workforce safety and disseminate strategies to prevent harm.\n\nIn May 2017, the Institute for Healthcare Improvement (IHI) and NPSF began working together as one organization. The merged entity is committed to using its combined knowledge and resources to focus and energize the patient safety agenda in order to build systems of safety across the continuum of care.\n\nThe National Patient Safety Foundation began as an idea proposed in 1996 at a large conference on medical error that was organized by the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Medical Association (AMA), and the Annenberg Center for Health Sciences at Eisenhower Medical Center in California and funded by The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. At that meeting, representatives of the AMA announced plans to form a foundation that would be \"a collaborative initiative involving all members of the healthcare community aimed at stimulating leadership, fostering awareness, and enhancing patient safety knowledge creation, dissemination and implementation.\"\n\nAmong the foundation's early activities was a survey of public opinion of patient safety issues. The survey, conducted by Louis Harris & Associates (2000) revealed that more than 4 out of 5 respondents (84%) had heard about a situation where a medical mistake had been made. More than one-third of respondents (42%) had been involved, either personally or through a friend or relative, in a situation where a medical error was made.\n\nIn 2007, NPSF formed the Lucian Leape Institute, a think tank named for renowned patient safety leader, Dr. Lucian Leape. The Lucian Leape Institute's charter is \"to identify new approaches to improving patient safety, call for the innovation necessary to expedite the work, create significant, sustainable improvements in culture, process, and outcomes, and encourage key stakeholders to assume significant roles in advancing patient safety.\" Since the 2017 merger with IHI, the Lucian Leape Institute continues this work as a program within IHI's overall safety work.\n\nPart of the NPSF mission was to identify and create \"a core body of knowledge\" about patient safety. To that end, the NPSF Research Grants Program began in 1998, with support provided by members of the NPSF Board of Directors. The program's objective was \"to promote studies leading to the prevention of human errors, system errors, patient injuries, and the consequences of such adverse events in the health care setting.\"\n\nOverall during the program's existence, NPSF funded 39 research projects investigating areas such as medication errors, systems design, and diagnostic errors. More than 200 papers and presentations resulting either directly or indirectly from this work have been published in academic journals and presented at national and international conferences. The last published research grants progress report (2012) details the grant projects and subsequent research.**\n\nEducating health professionals about patient safety best practices is a key area of focus for NPSF. Since the annual NPSF Patient Safety Congress has brought together health leaders, patient safety professionals, and patient advocates. In recent years, the meeting has touched on some of the most pressing concerns in health care, such as the move toward patient satisfaction as a measure of quality, engaging patients and families in their care, and the use of simulation to teach and promote safe practices.\n\nOne of the foundation's recent areas of focus is elevating patient safety as a medical discipline and a career path for medical professionals. The American Society of Professionals in Patient Safety, which was formed in January 2011, was introduced as the first such organization for individuals (as opposed to organizations) seeking to immerse themselves in a community of like-minded professionals.\n\nNPSF was instrumental in creating the Certification Board for Professionals in Patient Safety. Established in 2012, the CBPPS is an independent body charged with developing and overseeing a credentialing exam for the patient safety field.\n\nAmerican Society of Professionals in Patient Safety (membership program)\nStand Up for Patient Safety (membership program)\nAsk Me 3\nPatient Safety Immersion Initiative\nAHA-NPSF Comprehensive Patient Safety Leadership Fellowship\n\nAnnual NPSF Patient Safety Congress\nLucian Leape Institute Annual Forum and Gala\nPatient Safety Awareness Week\n\n"}
{"id": "15648844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15648844", "title": "Norman H. Anderson", "text": "Norman H. Anderson\n\nNorman Henry Anderson (born July 23, 1925) is a social psychologist, and Distinguished Professor Emeritus at the University of California, San Diego, where he was one of three founders of the Department of Psychology. He received a BS in 1946 and an MS in 1949 from the University of Chicago, and an MS in 1955 and a PhD in 1956 from the University of Wisconsin, with a thesis on \"Effect of First-order Conditional Probability in a Two-choice Learning Situation\". Anderson also taught at The University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) during the 1960s and 1970s, and is credited with developing Information Integration Theory.\n\nAnderson was the winner of the 1972 AAAS Prize for Behavioral Science Research.\n\n\nAnderson, N. H. & Hovland, C.I. The Representation of Order Effects in Communication Research. In C.I. Hovland (Ed.), \"The Order of Presentation in Persuasion\", New Haven: Yale University Press, 1957\n\nAnderson, N. H. Test of Averaging, Balance, and Congruity Theories. Paper presented at summer conference on mathematical models in social psychology. Kent, Connecticut, 1967.\n\nAnderson, N. H. A Simple Model for Information Integration. In R.P. Abelson E. Aronson, W.J. McGuire, T.M. Newcomb, M.J. Rosenberg & P.H. Tannenbaum (Eds.), \"Theories of Cognitive Consistency: A Sourcebook.\", Chicago: Rand McNally, 1968.\n\nAnderson, N. H. Algebraic Models in Perception. In E.C. Carterette & M.P. Friedman (Eds.), \"Handbook of Perception\", Vol. 2. New York: Academic Press, 1973.\n\nAnderson, N. H. Information Integration Theory: A Brief Survey. In D.H. Krantz, R.C. Atkinson, R.D. Luce, &P. Suppes (Eds.), \"Contemporary Developments in Mathematical Psychology\", San Francisco: Freeman, 1974\n"}
{"id": "3474537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3474537", "title": "Optometric Extension Program", "text": "Optometric Extension Program\n\nThe Optometric Extension Program (OEP) is an international, non-profit organization dedicated to the advancement of the discipline of optometry through the gathering and dissemination of information on vision. The mission of OEP is to advance human progress through research and education on vision, the visual process, and clinical care. The OEP has been credited as furthering the post-graduate education of optometrists, with recent emphasis on behavioral optometry and vision therapy. The OEP produces the monthly \"Journal of Behavioral Optometry\" as well as many monographs on vision therapy. OEP reprints writings and lectures relating to vision.\n\nThe OEP has its origins in a continuing education program developed by the Oklahoma Optometric Association for its members in the 1920s. Optometrists E.B. Alexander (the secretary of the Oklahoma Extension Program) and A.M. Skeffington (\"the father of behavioral optometry\") have been credited as establishing the OEP in 1928.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "67869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67869", "title": "Pontiac fever", "text": "Pontiac fever\n\nPontiac fever is an acute, nonfatal respiratory disease caused by various species of Gram-negative bacteria in the genus \"Legionella\". It causes a mild upper respiratory infection that resembles acute influenza. Pontiac fever resolves spontaneously and often goes undiagnosed. Both Pontiac fever and the more severe Legionnaire's disease are caused by the same bacteria, but Pontiac fever does not include pneumonia.\n\nPontiac fever was named for Pontiac, Michigan, where the first case was recognized. In 1968, several workers at the county's department of health came down with a fever and mild flu symptoms, but not pneumonia. After the 1976 Legionnaires' outbreak in Philadelphia, the Michigan health department re-examined blood samples and discovered the workers had been infected with the newly identified \"Legionella pneumophila\". An outbreak caused by\" Legionella micdadei\" in early 1988 in the UK became known as Lochgoilhead fever. Since that time, other species of \"Legionella\" that cause Pontiac fever have been identified, most notably in New Zealand, in 2007 where \"Legionella longbeachae\" was discovered. The New Zealand outbreak also marked the first time Pontiac fever had been traced to potting soil.\n\nSpecies of \"Legionella\" known to cause Pontiac fever include \"Legionella pneumophila\", \"Legionella longbeachae\", \"Legionella feeleii\", \"Legionella micdadei\", and \"Legionella anisa\".\n\nSources of the causative agents are aquatic systems and potting soil. The first outbreak caused by inhalation of aerosolized potting soil was discovered in New Zealand in January 2007. A total of 10 workers at a nursery came down with Pontiac fever. It was the first identification of \"L. longbeachae\".\n\nPontiac fever does not spread from person to person. It is acquired through aersolization of water droplets and/or potting soil containing \"Legionella\" bacteria.\n\nPontiac fever is known to have a short incubation period of 1 to 3 days. No fatalities have been reported and cases resolve spontaneously without treatment. It is often not reported. Age, gender, and smoking do not seem to be risk factors. Pontiac fever seems to affect young people in the age medians of 29, 30, and 32. Pathogenesis of the Pontiac fever is poorly known.\n"}
{"id": "48565717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48565717", "title": "Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana", "text": "Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana\n\nPradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana' KRISHI MEANS FARMING AND SINCHAI MEANS IRRIGATION. (PMKSY)() is a national mission to improve farm productivity and ensure better utilization of the resources in the country. The budget of in a time span of one year 2015-2016 has been allocated to this scheme. The decision was taken on 1 July 2015 at the meeting of Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA), which in turn was headed by the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi. The scheme has been approved with an outlay of 50000 crore for period of 5 years(2015-16 to 2019-20).\n\n\nThe primary objectives of PMKSY are to attract investments in irrigation system at field level, develop and expand cultivable land in the country, enhance ranch water use in order to minimize wastage of water, enhance crop per drop by implementing water-saving technologies and precision irrigation. The plan additionally calls for bringing ministries, offices, organizations, research and financial institutions occupied with creation and recycling of water under one platform so that an exhaustive and holistic outlook of the whole water cycle is considered. The goal is to open the doors for optimal water budgeting in all sectors.Tagline for PMKSY is \"more crop per drop\".\n"}
{"id": "35622298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35622298", "title": "Religion and coping with trauma", "text": "Religion and coping with trauma\n\nOne of the most common ways that people cope with trauma is through the comfort found in religious or spiritual practices. Psychologists of religion have performed multiple studies to measure the positive and negative effects of this coping style. Leading researchers have split religious coping into two categories: positive religious coping and negative religious coping. Individuals who use positive religious coping are likely to seek spiritual support and look for meaning in a traumatic situation. Negative religious coping (or spiritual struggles) expresses conflict, question, and doubt regarding issues of God and faith.\n\nThe effects of religious coping are measured in many different circumstances, each with different outcomes. Some common experiences where people use religious coping are fear-inflicting events such as 9/11 or the holocaust, death and sickness, and near death experiences. Research also shows that people also use religious coping to deal with everyday stressors in addition to life-changing traumas. The underlying assumption of the ability of religion to influence the coping process lies in the hypothesis that religion is more than a defence mechanism as it was viewed by Sigmund Freud. Rather than inspiring denial, religion stimulates reinterpretations of negative events through the sacred lens.\n\nKenneth Pargament is the author of the book \"Psychology of Religion and Coping\" and a leading researcher in religious coping. Along with developing the \"RCOPE\" questionnaire to measure religious coping strategies, Pargament and his colleagues designated three basic styles of coping with stress. In Pargament's article \"Religion and the Problem-Solving Process: Three Styles of Coping\", he identifies the collaborative, self-directed, and deferring coping styles. The collaborative style of religious coping involves an active and internalized personal exchange with God. The deferring coping style is when individuals rely heavily on God and delegate their stress without taking personal responsibility for the situation. The self-directed style of religious coping emphasizes the free will given by God that allows for the individual to solve the problem on their own. The collaborative style of coping has been found to produce the most advantages in clinical settings.\n\nIn a meta-analysis of 49 studies reviewing religion as a coping method, several mechanisms of positive coping were identified. Several are listed below.\nIn the same study, negative coping strategies were also pinpointed. Some of them are listed below.\nThe study then identified forms of positive psychological adjustment, like those listed below.\nA similar list of negative psychological adjustments was compiled.\nPositive religious coping methods correlated more strongly with positive psychological adjustment than negative psychological adjustment. Similarly, negative religious coping methods correlated with negative psychological adjustment.\n\nThe September 11 attacks have been widely studied among psychologists. Research has shown that 90% of Americans coped with the stress of September 11 (2001) by \"turning to religion\". Sixty-two percent of a sample of undergraduate and graduate students reported praying to cope with the stress that followed the attacks. Further analysis showed that searching for spiritual meaning was associated with less anxiety and depression. Psychologists also examined the types of coping used and how they affected mental health outcomes. Research shows that people who used positive religious coping displayed greater optimism, less anxiety, and higher levels of positive emotion three months after the attacks. Individuals who used positive religious coping were found to have significantly more positive outcomes (closeness with God, relationships with family and friends) than those who used negative religious coping. American Muslims were another highly studied group after the attacks. Results in this area align with previous research, showing that positive religious coping is associated with posttraumatic growth, while negative religious coping predicted higher levels of depression and anxiety.\n\nIndividuals deal with the death of significant people in their lives in a variety of ways. One of the most common ways that Americans deal with the death of a loved one is by turning to religion. Although most psychologists would argue that religious coping leads to positive outcomes, some research identifies that coping using religious can lead to greater amounts of distress, especially in dealing with the loss of a family member due to homicide. Further research recognized that the role of attachment to God is very important in determining how successful religious coping will be. Research shows that secure attachment to God and a positive religious coping style is positively correlated with stress related growth, positive religious outcomes, and a developed sense of meaning. Anxious and avoidant attachments to God and negative religious coping styles were positively correlated with depression, traumatic distress, and separation distress. Furthermore, attachment to God was strongly more correlated to positive outcomes than attachment to others.\n\nNear-death experiences (NDEs) provide a unique opportunity for psychologists to study the way in which people cope with their own death. NDEs generally trigger an out-of-body experience into a realm populated with spiritual beings and have the potential to shape American attitudes toward death in general. Surveys show that five percent of Americans have a NDE, which presents a limited field to study. In general, people who have NDEs report positive outcomes including reduced anxiety, increased capacity to love, and a higher sense of meaning and purpose in life. Individuals who have NDEs often fall into Pargament's category of transformative coping. In these cases, the person is transformed into a whole new way of life and way of thinking by one supernatural experience.\n\nTwelve years ago Goldie Hawn founded MindUP: a mindfulness based initiative to help students in schools deal with stress. The program has since been implemented in schools in 28 states, and has locations in Canada, China, Serbia, Australia, and Venezuela. The program invites students to participate in 15 lessons based on neuroscience. Kimberly Schonert-Reichl an employee of MindsUP and of the University of British Columbia evaluated the effectiveness of MindUP on students grades 4 through 5. Her findings are shown below:\n\n\nEven though MindUP has had very positive effects skeptics call it religion in disguise. They claim that the mindfulness exercises such as \"belly breaths\" are Buddhist practices as a different name. In some states MindUP has been removed from schools because schools are supposed to be secular and non-religious.\n\nA study was conducted by Dr Roxane Gervais, a senior psychologist at the Health and Safety Laboratory in Stockport. She found that people who were more actively religious were more likely to report low levels of anxiety, depression and fatigue and also felt a higher presence of meaning in life. These people also took less sick days. She concluded that employers should accommodate time for employees to engage in religious beliefs while at work in order to improve performance.\n\nDespite the problems encountered when studying religion as a coping mechanism, much research suggests that using it in intervention settings when applicable may be beneficial. For example, according to a study be Wachholtz and Pargament, when identified religious people suffering from splitting migraines were exposed to meditations with religious or non-religious content, they reported less pain after the religious meditations. Such \"psychospiritual\" methods have been utilized for a while, although their applications are limited and specific from person to person.\n\nResearch in the psychology of religion often reveals different outcomes between religion and spirituality. A person's religion is a collection of belief systems and moral values, often established by a governing institution. Religion is generally more traditional, organized, and sociological. Religion is considered to be more formal and upheld than spirituality. Spirituality, on the other hand, is a measure of one's intrinsic relationship with their God. Spirituality is viewed and studied as being more free-formed and psychological. Also, spirituality is considered to be a private experience that promotes a process of growing. In the psychology of coping with trauma, religion and spirituality can play very different roles. Some research shows that religion, but not spirituality can help with coping, whereas other shows that intrinsic spirituality can be a very effective style of coping. The differences found between religious and spiritual coping may be further evidence of the role of attachment styles and types of coping used. Through religious and spiritual coping, individuals can derive support from a divine being, from other members of a religious congregation, and from making meaning of distressing events, which can lead to the promotion of resilience, healing, and well-being.\n\nStudying religion as a coping mechanism has proved a difficult task for psychologists. Religion seems to be an integral part of some people's lives but not of others, so specialists cannot be certain whether religion is the variable to study or if there is something about religious people that makes them religious that is worth studying. Many studies only measure the frequency of certain \"religious\" activities including prayer or religious service attendance; however, just because a person exhibits religious behavior does not mean that he or she uses his or her religion to cope or even adheres to the set of beliefs that constitutes a religion.\n\nMuch of the research done on religion and coping has been isolated to Christianity. Studies are being conducted to accommodate for the diversity of religions and their differences among cultures.\n\nMany studies on the subject show contrary results. For example, some psychologists conclude that religiosity has no positive or negative outcomes at all and others cite that any form of religious coping has ultimately negative effects. These results may be a product of the inconsistencies in the ways that religion is studied as a coping mechanism or could reflect biases of researchers toward a certain religion.\n\n"}
{"id": "1283443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1283443", "title": "Status Anxiety", "text": "Status Anxiety\n\nStatus Anxiety is a nonfiction book by Alain de Botton. It was first published in 2004 by Hamish Hamilton; subsequent publications have been by Penguin Books.\n\nStatus Anxiety is a 21st Century phenomenon which is a result of capitalism, democracy, and an ostensibly egalitarian society, and is prevalent in countries where an inequality in income is evident. Status Anxiety can be defined as the constant tension or fear of being perceived as \"unsuccessful\" by the society in materialistic terms. It was coined by the Swiss-born British philosopher and author Alain de Botton in his book \"Status Anxiety\". Today, every individual constantly tries to outsmart the others to climb up the social ladder. The effects of status anxiety can be impulse buying, status consumption etc.\nMeritocracy is a primary cause of status anxiety. Meritocracy is a society that believes that only the talented and the meritorious will end up at the top of the social ladder. Snobbery, envy, lovelessness are some other causes of status anxiety.\n\nDe Botton first noticed this phenomenon among the wealthy families of America. The Americans had a lavish lifestyle and most of it was just to make the \"neighbours\" envious. America had also witnessed the trend of \"Famous for being famous\". Botton even met the American motivational speaker Les Brown to know how motivational speaking works. He concluded that motivational speakers conducted their speeches to induce status anxiety among individuals. Motivational speaking is based on the fact that \"No one is living up to their true potential and everyone has scope for improvement. De Botton challenged this and asked \"What about those who want to achieve but lack the opportunities to do so?\"\n\nDe Botton lays out the causes of and solutions to status anxiety as follows:\n\nCauses:\n\nSolutions:\n\nA two-hour documentary film about this thesis, also called \"Status Anxiety\" and written by Alain de Botton, was released in 2004. A version of it was shown in 2008 on Public Broadcasting Service channels like Boston WGBH-TV's digital channel WGBX-TV in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56606727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56606727", "title": "The Disability Rag", "text": "The Disability Rag\n\nThe Disability Rag (also known as \"Ragged Edge\" magazine) was a periodical published between 1980 and 2004 as a subscription-based print publication, and as an online publication from 1997 to 2007. In addition to covering the U. S. disability rights movement, \"The Rag\", as it was usually called, published a wide range of articles and opinion pieces from individuals with disabilities. It was considered one of the most important publications of the disability rights movement. The not-for-profit Advocado Press was incorporated in 1981 to serve as publisher of \"The Rag\". The Advocado Press also published a number of books and monographs on disability issues.\n\n\"The Disability Rag's\" first issue - a 4-page bifold produced at a quick-print shop - published in January, 1980 in Louisville KY, with both news items for the local disability activism community in Louisville and a first-person account of \"living like a refugee\" as a person with a disability. The publication was the effort of two Louisville women who were active in local disability organizations: Cass Irvin, a polio survivor who believed that \"there needed to be some way for [disabled] people to connect\" and Mary Johnson, who was non-disabled and had a background in public relations. In 1994 Irvin was cited as one of 50 \"American Heroines\" by the Ladies Home Journal, in part for her work with \"The Rag\". After a few years \"The Rag\" began to get national attention due to the efforts of Irvin, who was active in the American Coalition of Citizens with Disabilities (ACCD).\n\n\"The Disability Rag's\" national growth was accelerated in 1985 by a front page \"Wall Street Journal\" article. As it became a national periodical of the disability movement, it addressed the disability community's concerns about both personal and public issues. \"The Rag\" was a hybrid: both a news magazine, with coverage of emerging activism local and nationwide, and an opinion journal. In an era before social media, its articles by leading disability rights figures and a large and lively letters to the editor section debated the disability rights policy issues of the times as activists proposed, argued about and worked out ideology and strategies. \"The Rag\" covered the full range of disability political issues from charity telethons to physician assisted suicide to protests over inaccessible public transit. When ADAPT started a national activist effort to change public transit policy, \"The Rag\" provided continuing coverage of the activists and the issue, and the coverage was collected and published as \"To Ride the Public's Buses: The Fight that Built A Movement\", The Advocado Press's first \"\"Disability Rag\" Reader.\"\n\nAnother ongoing issue for \"The Rag\" was media coverage: it consistently railed against or poked fun at what it considered detrimental or misguided coverage of disabled people. Two ongoing features of the magazine - \"Myth & Media\" and \"We Wish We Wouldn't See...\" - critiqued the typical coverage of disabled people as either heroes and \"overcomers\" or victims of disease, and skewered ads for cosmetic surgery or from fundraising charities which used disability as tragedy to open purse strings. \n\nIt urged readers to view themselves not as victims of tragedy but survivors facing discrimination and barriers, which could be removed by society. It urged its readers to wake up to the fact that their lives could be better without cures if they would just fight for access and accommodation. The recurring cartoon feature \"Disability Rat,\" kept up the theme. The Wall Street Journal told readers about the \"wheelchair-riding rodent who, irked at having his handicapped-parking space swiped, blows up the offending vehicle.\" And \"The Rag\" was not shy about pointing out the value of its ideology: \"Start Reading \"The Rag\" and start to think\" was a slogan of early subscription ads.\n\n\"The Rag\" served as a national forum as activists and leading thinkers and scholars of disability rights submitted articles and reacted to items and reader letters published in \"The Rag\", and it grew to become an important outlet for creative expressions of disability culture, including essays, fiction, poetry and artwork reflecting the experience of disability. (In 1994 The Advocado Press issued an anthology of much of this writing as \"The Ragged Edge\" anthology.) . Mike Ervin, reviewing the book in \"The Progressive\" magazine, called \"The Rag\" \"the gimp-radical's bible.\"\n\nMany disabled people first learned about disability culture through \"The Disability Rag\", including Stephen E Brown, who wrote that \"\"The Disability Rag\" published stories by kindred spirits\" and noted that he \"wanted to write for it one day.\"\n\nBob Ruffner, then the director of public affairs for the President's Committee on Employment of People with Disabilities, called \"The Rag\" \"a strong voice for those who may not be associated with a lot of well-organized groups.\n\n\"It's very forceful in arguing that disabled people should get their heads out of the clouds and confront society with their needs,\" he said, adding that \"utopian ideas - ideas that can be translated into social action - start in places like \"The Rag\".\n\n\"How else can you build a movement among people who have been left out? Its purpose is to build a fire,\" he told \"The Washington Post\" in 1986.\n\n\"The Rag\" was considered \"well left of center on the political spectrum.\" Because of its \"take no prisoners\" tone, \"The Rag\" was frequently criticized. Some felt its \"strident, shoot from the hip approach\" was counterproductive; that its accusatory tone diminished the impact of its message. Other readers complained that it lacked humor.\n\nMany had serious reservations about the ferocity of its disability pride message, which they felt went too far when it eschewed the concept of cure. The fact that \"The Rag\" celebrated disability to the extent that it frequently took stances against charity appeals for cures, such as telethons, rubbed critics the wrong way.\n\nAnd because \"The Rag\" was not loathe to call out those in the disability movement whom it considered \"Uncle Tiny Tims\" or opinions of leaders that it considered bad disability politics, disability movement activists fumed when they found themselves in firing range. \n\nAs \"The Rag's\" reach grew, it hired a circulation manager and acquired an office. By 1990, The Advocado Press employed several staff members, for both editorial and circulation, for \"The Rag\".\n\nMary Johnson, \"The Rag's\" longtime editor, left in 1993 and the editorship passed to Dave Matheis. Barrett Shaw took over as editor in 1994, to be succeeded by Eric Francis in 1996. In 1997, Johnson returned as editor and remained in that position until print publication ceased at the end of 2004. \n\nIn 1989 \"The Disability Rag\" changed its masthead to \"The Disability Rag and Resource\", and in 1995 changed its name to \"Ragged Edge\" magazine at the launch of its website, Ragged Edge Online. It began experimenting with color covers, and grew to around 6,000 paying subscribers.\n\nFundraising efforts by its nonprofit Advocado Press starting in the mid 1980s resulted in a number of financial gifts both from longtime members and various progressive and activist groups. The Advocado Press received grants for its work on media and disability.\n\nThe Advocado Press published \"Reporting on Disability: Approaches and Issues\" (1989) \"Strange People with Books\" (by Nancy Gall-Clayton, 1990), and \"Media Savvy: A Self-Training Curriculum\" (1991), as\n\"The Rag's\" coverage of the \"bus battle' was later anthologized in the Advocado Press first Disability Rag Reader, \"To Ride the Public's Buses: The Fight that Built A Movement\"\n\n\"The Ragged Edge\" magazine published as a periodical through 2003. In 2004, the Advocado Press published three larger issues called \"Ragged Edge Readers\" and at the end of 2004 ceased print publication, although the Ragged Edge Online website continued to feature new material for two more years. The complete Ragged Edge Online site is available through archive.org.\n\nIn 1993 \"The Disability Rag\" won the \"Utne Reader\" Alternative Press Award for Best Special Interest Publication: The magazine was \"cogent, outspoken, and joyfully resistant to stereotyping, its pages feature scathing satire and clearheaded thinking,\" according to Utne.\n\nIn 1998 \"The Ragged Edge\" anthology was named an \"outstanding book on the subject of human rights in North America\" by the Gustavus Myers Center for the Study of Human Rights.\n\nThe Ragged Edge website launched in 1997 as \"The Electric Edge\" before settling on \"Ragged Edge Online.\" Besides offering digital editions of the print publication, the Rag website offered news updates and expanded discussion of trending topics in the disability rights movement, and blog posts by disability activists.\nA complete list of Advocado Press titles still in print can be found here. Its complete periodical archive and many of its titles are available online from Alexander Street Press.\n\nThe Advocado Press's board of directors voted in 2017 to dissolve the corporation in 2020.\n\nIn 2015, the organizational papers and archives of The Advocado Press including the periodical archives were acquired by the Bancroft Library.\n"}
{"id": "51437586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51437586", "title": "Thomas Lewis Gilmer", "text": "Thomas Lewis Gilmer\n\nThomas Lewis Gilmer (1849–1931) was an American Oral Surgeon who was the founder of Northwestern University Dental School (1891) and Institute of Medicine in Chicago. Dr. Gilmer made several contributions in Oral Surgery, such as the Gilmer Splint and \"Gilmer wiring\", which are named after him.\n\nHe was born in Lincoln County, Missouri in 1849. He attended Missouri Dental College and obtained his dental degree in 1882. He attended Quincy College of Medicine and obtained his Medical Degree in 1885. He then served as an Oral Surgeon at St. Mary's Hospital in Quincy, Illinois. Along with practicing, he was also the Professor of Histology at Quincy College of Medicine. Dr. Gilmer then moved to Chicago in 1889 where he was a professor of Oral Surgery at the Chicago College of Dental Surgery. In 1891, he founded the Northwestern University Dental School. Dr. Gilmer served as a dean of the school eventually. He also founded the Institute of Medicine, Chicago. \n\nHe was married to Ella M. Bostick and they had a daughter named Virginia Gilmer. \n\n"}
{"id": "23927197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23927197", "title": "Varilux", "text": "Varilux\n\nVarilux is a brand name belonging to Essilor International, a producer of corrective lenses. The first version of the lens was invented by Bernard Maitenaz and released in 1959, and was the first modern progressive lens to correct presbyopia. The progressive lens is characterized by correcting near, intermediate and far vision.\n\nThe first patent for a progressive lens was British Patent 15,735, granted to Own Aves with a 1907 priority date. Aves' patent included the progressive lens design and the manufacturing process. However this was unlike modern progressive lenses. It consisted of a conical back surface and a cylindrical front with opposing axes in order to create a power progression. This design was never commercialized. However, due to this patent, Essilor cannot technically be considered the creator of the first progressive lens.\n\nWhile there were several intermediate steps (H. Newbold appears to have designed a similar lens to Aves around 1913), there is evidence to suggest that Duke Elder in 1922 developed the world's first commercially available progressive lens (Ultrifo) sold by \"Gowlland of Montreal\". This was based on an arrangement of aspherical surfaces.\n\nFollowing in his father’s and in his grandfather’s footsteps, Bernard Maitenaz joined \"Société des Lunetiers\" (which became \"Essel\", and is now Essilor) in 1948 as a research engineer after receiving diplomas from \"École Nationale Supérieure des Arts et Métiers and Institut d’Optique\".\n\nThe idea of the progressive lens came to him as he tried on his father’s bifocal lenses. The abrupt transition of power seemed unnatural to him, and he believed it to be more rational to use a lens that would correct far vision on the upper portion of the lens, intermediate vision in its middle part and near vision in its lower part.\n\nOn March 2, 1951, Bernard Maitenaz deposited an envelope at the \"National Institute of Industrial Property\" in France which included four drawings and mechanical data that would make it possible to manufacture the modern-day progressive lens. On November 25, 1953, \"Essel\" submitted a first patent on his invention.\n\nAfter patents and calculations, this type of progressive lens appeared to be possible, but had yet to be manufactured. Maitenaz and his team began producing progressive lenses using a variety of different improvised techniques and by 1958, \"Essel\" had developed machinery capable of mass manufacturing them.\n\nAfter testing the results on 46 people in January 1959, 5 gave excellent responses, 29 good responses, 2 average responses and 10 poor responses.\n\nCloser to the product launch, numerous pricing strategies had been elaborated. In the end, Maintenaz’s invention would be fixed between \"Essels bifocal lens, the Diachrolux, and its trifocal lens, the Trilux. Without much brainstorming, Maintenaz’s progressive lens was given a name following suit with the other premium products: Varilux\"'. The lens was launched officially in May 1959 at the Hotel Lutetia in Paris, France.\n\nFollowing the launch of Varilux, \"Essel\" set forth a plan for Varilux to be present outside France. Through a number of partnerships and distribution deals, the Varilux lens began its distribution in a number of countries in the 1960s, including the Netherlands, Germany, United Kingdom, United States, Canada, Brazil and Japan.\n\nFrom sales of 6,000 lenses in 1959 to 2,000,000 in 1969, Varilux was becoming a successful venture, but the market still had some concerns regarding the adaptation time to the lens. Still working at improving his original invention using new technologies and calculations, Maitenaz and his team were working on the design of a new progressive lens with less aberration, which would in theory provide a higher level of comfort to the wearer.\n\nAt the start of 1969, two companies dominated the French ophthalmic lens market: \"Essel\" and \"Silor\". Although both had created innovations of their own (\"Esse\"l with Varilux and \"Silor\" with the Orma 1000 organic material), they were not major players on the international market. On January 1, 1972, \"Essel\" and \"Silor\" merged and formed Essilor.\n\nWith this newly formed merger, Essilor launched the Varilux 2 in Europe, which adopted a better design than its predecessor and lighter lens material.\n\nAs new technologies and manufacturing processes were being developed, the research efforts concerning Varilux continued. In 1988, the result came with Varilux Multi-Design, or VMD. The Multi-Design concept was a first stage of personalization of the progressive lens, a specific optimum design for each age class of the presbyopic wearer. By the end of this decade, Essilor would become the world’s leading manufacturer in ophthalmic optical products.\n\nIn 1993, Varilux Comfort was launched and became the world's best-selling progressive lens. Varilux Comfort represented a new concept of the progressive lens, it was the first progressive lens which combined the advantages of a \"hard\" design (type Varilux) and a \"soft\" design (type Varilux 2). The new surfacing techniques developed by Essilor made the adaptation much quicker than on previous progressive lenses and provided comfortable vision in all postures.\n\nFinally, in the 21st century, Essilor launched Varilux Panamic (2002), Varilux Ellipse (2004), Varilux Physio (2006), Varilux Ipseo (2008).\n\nWith the launch of Varilux Comfort in 1993, Essilor developed the dioptric loop method, making it possible to gauge wearer satisfaction. It involves using repetition until an effective result is achieved for the wearer. It comprises five stages:\n\nIn 2008, the Varilux Ipseo New Edition was designed using Essilor's Virtual Reality system.\n\nIn 2008, Essilor designed the Varilux Experience, a virtual simulation concept using the various ophthalmic solutions offered to presbyopes.\n\nVarilux Experience demonstrates the technologies used to produce Varilux lenses, which are quite similar to those used in research laboratories, so as to provide an effective communication aid for optical professionals and their customers with presbyopia.\n\nIn a theater showing a 3D film, viewers wearing polarized, stereoscopic glasses follow in the footsteps of a young man with presbyopia. Stage-by-stage, he experiences the vision produced by single-vision and bifocal lenses, and then that of standard progressive lenses, and ultimately Varilux lenses.\n\nThe world premiere of Varilux Experience marked Varilux's 50th anniversary and took place at the SILMO optical trade fair, which ran from October 30 to November 2, 2008 at Paris' Porte de Versailles.\n\nAs the first progressive lens, Varilux allowed wearers with presbyopia with a correction for near vision, intermediate vision and far vision, on the same lens.\n\nWith the merger of \"Essel\" and \"Silor\" (forming Essilor), new innovations were delivered on the Varilux 2. Essilor claimed that this new lens provided increased comfort and further ease of adaptation.\n\nThe Varilux Multi-Design claimed to maintain the breadth of the near-vision field regardless of the addition degree.\n\nAs Essilor's best selling lens, the world #1 selling progressive lens the Varilux Comfort has been subject to several studies. It was the first product designed to take visual ergonomic criteria into account.\n\nThe Varilux Panamic lens is based on Global Design Management, a technology that manages central, peripheral and binocular vision paramenters.\n\nThe Varilux Ellipse lens enables those with presbyopia to wear small frames and a progressive lens.\n\nThe Varilux Physio progressive lens is characterized by an improvement in colour contrast and wider fields of vision. It derives its performance from a patented innovation called the Twin RX Technology which combines a method for calculating lens optics, Essilor's Wavefront Magement System and advanced digital surfacing. The progressive lens is also available as the Varilux Physio F-360, which require more measurements and is therefore more personalized.\n\nThe Varilux Ipseo New Edition is the first lens designed and tested using a virtual simulator. The lens is personalized to the wearer's visual behaviour, using 10 customization criteria. To do so, it uses the Vision Print System, which measures a personal diagnosis of eye and head movement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35294940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35294940", "title": "Water supply and women in developing countries", "text": "Water supply and women in developing countries\n\nWater supply and women in developing countries is a complex topic, as lack of accessible, sufficient, clean and affordable water supply has adverse impacts specifically related to women in developing nations. In most countries, women are the primary household members responsible for providing water for domestic consumption. The collection of water, which may take up to six hours a day to meet the household needs, is a duty often relegated to women and children. This foregone time often prevents children, especially girls, from attending school and women from pursuing small business opportunities.\n\nIn 2000, the Second World Water Forum in The Hague concluded that women are the primary users of domestic water, that women used water in their key food production roles, and that women and children were the most vulnerable to water-related disasters. At the International Conference on Water and the Environment, the Dublin Statement on Water and Sustainable Development included \"Women Play a central part in the provision management and safeguarding of water\" as one of 4 principles. Many women's rights and water advocacy organizations have identified water privatization as an area of concern, sometimes alleging negative effects that specifically affect women.\n\nWater supply schemes in developing nations have shown higher success when planned and run with full participation of women in the affected communities. A study including 88 communities in 14 countries showed that projects where men and women from intended user households were included in selection of site facilities, and where water projects were initiated by user households, rather than by external agencies or local leaders, achieved a final higher access to services than those that did not.\n\nChilean law does not specifically include a gender component relating to water projects, but notes that all water projects must assess impact on the \"lives and customs of human groups\". A study commissioned in 2000 by the Direccion General de Aguas relating to gender and the challenges of water resources noted: \n\nThe 1995 Constitution of the Republic of Uganda, Article 33 [2] states \"The State shall provide the facilities and opportunities necessary to enhance the welfare of women to enable them to realise their full potential and advancement\". Evidence of this outlined responsibility, though excluded from official water statutes, has been addressed in the National Gender Policy, National Water Policy, and the Local Government Act. The National Gender Policy lays out a framework for gender-oriented sectoral policy in development. The National Water Policy calls for the inclusion of women at all stages of implementation, noting that \"women and men should have equal opportunities to participate fully in all aspects of community management\". The local government act requires 30% of the representation on local councils to be women, currently at around 10%.\n\nKenya's \"Country Strategy on Integrated Water Resource Management\" addresses the issue of gender and water source:\n\nIn Malawi, a group of men managing community water sources was found to be ineffective as they were often absent during the workday. A management group consisting only of women was set up to replace the men, and water supply was reported to have improved. However the burden was too much for the female-only group and communities now split the work with an equitable share of duties. Women in Malawi have also initiative in the maintenance of improved water sources, forming water tap committees composed mostly of women and using the pipelines as footpaths, reporting leaks to the village caretaker.\n\nIn scaling down water projects to the individual level, women have been found to be effective teachers at a domestic levels, and gender-sensitive approaches to water and sanitation have proven to be cost effective. In the Eastern Development Region in Nepal, a small scale water management project under a \"Community Water and Sanitation Programme\" has shown success in a women-led team, which manages 23 tap stands in a village of the \"Jhapa\"' district in addition to running adult literacy programs and latrine construction. In El Salvador, The \"Watersheds and Gender Project\" has taught women technical agricultural knowledge, promoted women as trainers, and fostered female participation in positions previously uniquely occupied by men.\n\nAccess problems relating to water involve long walking distance to the source, low water quality, lack of a sufficient quantity of water, high water prices and poor system design. Women often suffer disproportionately from these problems. In Ghana, women and children suffer as the result of failed water supply schemes where women consumed unclean water to save money to feed children. In east Nepal tap stands and tube wells were located along roads, so that women had to travel long distances or wait until nightfall to avoid being seen by men while bathing freely or washing clothes.\n\nHealth and access are often related in gender-related issues of water sourcing. In Tanzania, urinary schistosomiasis among women and girls was associated with the local practice of washing clothes in water infested with the vectors for the disease. As part of a project to drill wells the washing of clothes at hand pumps had been banned, forcing women to wash clothes in the open, infested water. Cholera outbreaks are also of concern, as in Alexandra and KwaZulu, South Africa following contaminated water use which had been linked by some observers to water supply privatization in some localities. In addition, women are often primary caretakers for HIV positive family members who require clean water in treatment, lack thereof can complicate existing effects.\n\nThe United Nations Interagency Network on Women and Gender Equality (IANWGE) established the Gender and Water Task Force in 2003. The Task Force has since become a UN-Water Task Force and is taking responsibility for the gender component of International Water for Life Decade (2005-1015). The Task Force has also called for additional empirical data regarding the issue, as \"Neither the quality nor type of data currently collected are adequate to the task of supporting gender Millennium Development Goals in water and sanitation\".\n\nThe World Bank Gender and Development Group has also addressed the issue at an institutional level, citing successful \"Gender-Mainstreaming\" efforts in many of its Water Supply and Sanitation projects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17612272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17612272", "title": "Workplace health surveillance", "text": "Workplace health surveillance\n\nWorkplace health surveillance or occupational health surveillance (U.S.) is the ongoing systematic collection, analysis, and dissemination of exposure and health data on groups of workers. The Joint ILO/WHO Committee on Occupational Health at its 12th Session in 1995 defined an occupational health surveillance system as “a system which includes a functional capacity for data collection, analysis and dissemination linked to occupational health programmes”.\n\nThe concept is new to occupational health and is frequently confused with medical screening. Health screening refers to the early detection and treatment of diseases associated with particular occupations, while workplace health surveillance refers to the removal of the causative factors.\n\nThe mission of a medical surveillance program is to keep workers healthy and ensure that employers are meeting OSHA standards in health and safety. Medical surveillance has an emphasis on prevention: it is designed to detect potential workplace hazards before irreversible health effects can occur. Clinicians with expertise in occupational health, industrial exposures, and respiratory protection screen workers with physical examinations, blood testing, spirometry (a measurement lung function), and audiometry. Screenings are performed at set intervals, often annually. The clinicians providing medical surveillance services include board-certified occupational and environmental medicine physicians, mid-level practitioners, nurses, and NIOSH-certified spirometry technicians.\n\nMedical surveillance targets actual health events or a change in a biologic function of an exposed person or persons. Medical surveillance is a second line of defense behind the implementation of direct hazard controls such as engineering controls, administrative controls, and personal protective equipment. NIOSH recommends the medical surveillance of workers when they are exposed to hazardous materials. The elements of a medical surveillance program generally include the following:\nWhen the purpose of a medical surveillance program is to detect early signs of work-related illness and disease, it is considered a type of medical screening, to detect preclinical changes in organ function or changes before a person would normally seek medical care and when intervention is beneficial The establishment of a medical screening program should follow established criteria, and specific disease endpoints must be able to be determined by the test selected.\n\nMedical examinations and tests are used in many workplaces to determine whether an employee is able to perform the essential functions of the job. Medical surveillance of workers is also required by law in the United States when there is exposure to a specific workplace hazard, and OSHA has a number of standards that require medical surveillance of workers In addition to substance-specific standards, OSHA has standards with broader applicability. For example, employers must follow the medical evaluation requirements of OSHA’s respiratory protection standard () when respirators are necessary to protect worker health. Likewise, the OSHA standard for occupational exposure to hazardous chemicals in laboratories () requires medical consultation following the accidental release of hazardous chemicals. NIOSH also recommends medical surveillance, including screening, of workers when there is exposure to certain occupational hazards.\n\nHazard surveillance involves identifying potentially hazardous practices or exposures in the workplace and assessing the extent to which they can be linked to workers, the effectiveness of controls, and the reliability of exposure measures. Workplace hazards can be chemical, biological, physical, ergonomic, psychosocial, or safety-related in nature. Hazard surveillance is an essential component of any occupational health surveillance effort and is used for defining the elements of the risk management program. Critical elements of a risk management program include recognizing potential exposures and taking appropriate actions to minimize them (for example, implementing engineering controls, employing good work practices, and using personal protective equipment). Hazard surveillance should include the identification of work tasks and processes that involve the production and use of hazardous materials, and should be viewed as one of the most critical components of any risk management program.\n\nHazard surveillance includes elements of hazard and exposure assessment. The hazard assessment involves reviewing the best available information concerning toxicity of materials. Such an assessment may come from databases, texts, and published literature or available regulations or guidelines. Human studies, such as epidemiologic investigations and case series or reports, and animal studies may also provide valuable information. The exposure assessment involves evaluating relevant exposure routes (inhalation, ingestion, dermal, and/or injection), amount, duration, and frequency (i.e., dose), as well as whether exposure controls are in place and how protective they are. When data are not available, this will be a qualitative process.\n\nIn 1998, the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE) joined the CDC's National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) to form the Occupational Health Surveillance Work Group in order to prioritize occupational health conditions to be placed under surveillance. The Work Group recommended that states use 19 occupational health indicators based on the availability of easily obtainable statewide data, the public health importance of the occupational health effect or exposure, and the potential for intervention activities.\n\nThese indicators are useful in assessing the ongoing policies and preventive measures but they also have some limitations. Among the major limitations are the underreporting of occupational health disorders, the inability to recognize potential occupational association of the disorder by health care workers, difficulties in attributing diseases with long latency or multiple causes (such as lung cancer) to occupational exposures, exclusion of special populations (such as self-employed or military personnel), and differences between state-specific databases.\n\nData for the OHIs come from multiple sources including:\n\nThe usefulness of a surveillance tool may depend on what hazards are present in the workplace and the health effects those hazards may cause. For example, hearing tests will be helpful when noise exposures are present, while tests assessing lung function or biomonitoring may be useful when airborne agents are present. It is also important to distinguish between tools using medical surveillance (measuring health effects) and hazard surveillance/exposure assessment (physical measurements of the type and severity of hazard present). Periodic testing, including a baseline exam when an employee is hired, can often help detect a decline in function by comparing previous results. Medical surveillance tools\n\n\n\n\nThe Occupational Health Safety Network (OHSN) is a secure electronic surveillance system developed by the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) to address health and safety risks among health care personnel. Hospitals and other healthcare facilities can upload the occupational injury data they already collect to the secure database for analysis and benchmarking with other de-identified facilities. NIOSH works with OHSN participants in identifying and implementing timely and targeted interventions. OHSN modules currently focus on three high risk and preventable events that can lead to injuries or musculoskeletal disorders among healthcare personnel: sharps injuries; blood and body fluid exposures; musculoskeletal injuries from patient handling activities; slips, trips, and falls; and workplace violence. OHSN enrollment is currently open to all U.S. healthcare facilities. OHSN may be expanded to other industry sectors in the future.\n\nMost countries have specific regulations for individual health data, which require that the worker be informed if this information is ever shared with any third party. Occupational Health Records (OHR) have the same protections as any medical record that has confidential health information. Employers must store OHR in a secured area free from unauthorized access, use, or disclosure. Workers should have the right to access this information whenever they wish. \n\n"}
