{"id": "41128956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41128956", "title": "Abdol Karim Ayadi", "text": "Abdol Karim Ayadi\n\nAbdol Karim Ayadi was the personal physician to Mohammad Reza Pahlavi the Shah of Iran during his reign from 26 September 1941 until 11 February 1979. A member of the Bahá'í Faith he was born in Tehran in 1907.\n"}
{"id": "24210277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24210277", "title": "Action Deafness", "text": "Action Deafness\n\nAction Deafness, formerly the Leicester & County Mission for the Deaf, is a British Deaf-led registered charity (charitable company limited by guarantee) providing services for the profoundly deaf, hard of hearing and the deafened. The organisation, founded in June 1897 in Leicester, England, headed by Chief Executive Craig Crowley MBE and is accredited in both ISO9001 Quality Management and ISO27001 Information & Security.\n"}
{"id": "14134201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14134201", "title": "Advanced oxidation process", "text": "Advanced oxidation process\n\nAdvanced oxidation processes (abbreviation: AOPs), in a broad sense, are a set of chemical treatment procedures designed to remove organic (and sometimes inorganic) materials in water and wastewater by oxidation through reactions with hydroxyl radicals (·OH). In real-world applications of wastewater treatment, however, this term usually refers more specifically to a subset of such chemical processes that employ ozone (O), hydrogen peroxide (HO) and/or UV light. One such type of process is called in situ chemical oxidation.\n\nAOPs rely on in-situ production of highly reactive hydroxyl radicals (·OH). These reactive species are the strongest oxidants that can be applied in water and can virtually oxidize any compound present in the water matrix, often at a diffusion controlled reaction speed. Consequently, ·OH reacts unselectively once formed and contaminants will be quickly and efficiently fragmented and converted into small inorganic molecules. Hydroxyl radicals are produced with the help of one or more primary oxidants (e.g. ozone, hydrogen peroxide, oxygen) and/or energy sources (e.g. ultraviolet light) or catalysts (e.g. titanium dioxide). Precise, pre-programmed dosages, sequences and combinations of these reagents are applied in order to obtain a maximum •OH yield. In general, when applied in properly tuned conditions, AOPs can reduce the concentration of contaminants from several-hundreds ppm to less than 5 ppb and therefore significantly bring COD and TOC down, which earned it the credit of “water treatment processes of the 21st century”.\n\nThe AOP procedure is particularly useful for cleaning biologically toxic or non-degradable materials such as aromatics, pesticides, petroleum constituents, and volatile organic compounds in wastewater. Additionally, AOPs can be used to treat effluent of secondary treated wastewater which is then called tertiary treatment. The contaminant materials are converted to a large extent into stable inorganic compounds such as water, carbon dioxide and salts, i.e. they undergo mineralization. A goal of the wastewater purification by means of AOP procedures is the reduction of the chemical contaminants and the toxicity to such an extent that the cleaned wastewater may be reintroduced into receiving streams or, at least, into a conventional sewage treatment.\n\nAlthough oxidation processes involving ·OH have been in use since late 19th century (such as in Fenton reagent, which, however, was an analytical reagent at that time), the utilization of such oxidative species in water treatment did not receive adequate attention until Glaze et al. suggested the possible generation of ·OH “in sufficient quantity to affect water purification” and defined the term “Advanced Oxidation Processes” for the first time in 1987. AOPs still have not been put into commercial use on a large scale (especially in developing countries) even up to today mostly because of the relatively high costs. Nevertheless, its high oxidative capability and efficiency make AOPs a popular technique in tertiary treatment in which the most recalcitrant organic and inorganic contaminants are to be eliminated. The increasing interest in water reuse and more stringent regulations regarding water pollution are currently accelerating the implementation of AOPs at full-scale.\nThere are roughly 500 commercialized AOPs installations around the world at present, mostly in Europe and the United States. Other countries like China are showing increasing interests in AOPs.\n\nGenerally speaking, chemistry in AOPs could be essentially divided into three parts:\nThe mechanism of ·OH production (Part 1) highly depends on the sort of AOP technique that is used. For example, ozonation, UV/HO and photocatalytic oxidation rely on different mechanisms of ·OH generation:\n\nCurrently there is no consensus on the detailed mechanisms in Part 3, but researchers have cast light on the processes of initial attacks in Part 2. In essence, ·OH is a radical species and should behave like a highly reactive electrophile. Thus two type of initial attacks are supposed to be Hydrogen Abstraction and Addition. The following scheme, adopted from a technical handbook and later refined, describes a possible mechanism of the oxidation of benzene by ·OH.\n\n\"Scheme 1. Proposed mechanism of the oxidation of benzene by hydroxyl radicals\"\n\nThe first and second steps are electrophilic addition that breaks the aromatic ring in benzene (A) and forms two hydroxyl groups (–OH) in intermediate C. Later an ·OH grabs a hydrogen atom in one of the hydroxyl groups, producing a radical species (D) that is prone to undergo rearrangement to form a more stable radical (E). E, on the other hand, is readily attacked by ·OH and eventually forms 2,4-hexadiene-1,6-dione (F).\nAs long as there are sufficient ·OH radicals, subsequent attacks on compound F will continue until the fragments are all converted into small and stable molecules like HO and CO in the end, but such processes may still be subject to a myriad of possible and partially unknown mechanisms.\n\nAOPs hold several advantages that are unparalleled in the field of water treatment:\n\nIt should be realised that AOPs are not perfect and have several drawbacks.\n\nSince AOPs were first defined in 1987, the field has witnessed a rapid development both in theory and in application. So far, TiO/UV systems, HO/UV systems, and Fenton, photo-Fenton and Electro-Fenton systems have received extensive scrutiny. However, there are still many research needs on these existing AOPs.\n\nRecent trends are the development of new, modified AOPs that are efficient and economical. In fact, there has been some studies that offer constructive solutions. For instance, doping TiO with non-metallic elements could possibly enhance the photocatalytic activity; and implementation of ultrasonic treatment could promote the production of hydroxyl radicals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20593915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20593915", "title": "Calvary Wakefield Hospital", "text": "Calvary Wakefield Hospital\n\nCalvary Wakefield Hospital (previously Wakefield Hospital) is a private Catholic hospital founded in 1883 in Adelaide, Australia. It provides acute care with inpatient and outpatient facilities. It also provides dental care and plastic and reconstructive surgery to patients. It is one of four private hospitals in South Australia under the Calvary name.\n\nSince its 2006 acquisition from Ramsay Health Care, the hospital has been one of the Little Company of Mary (LCM) Health Care providers overseen by the international religious institute Sisters of the Little Company of Mary. Prior to its acquisition, the 180-bed hospital was called Wakefield Hospital. According to LCM Health Care, it \"is the oldest private hospital in South Australia.\"\n\nLittle Company of Mary Health Care (Australia) is developing a replacement for Calvary Wakefield Hospital through Commercial & General developers and John Holland construction. The new hospital in Angas Street, Adelaide, will be next to the South Australia Police headquarters, and is due to open in early 2019 with 250+ beds, a 220-space carpark and a 350-space carpark developed by Commercial & General nearby.\nIn August 2018, the new Calvary Hospital Adelaide celebrated its \"topping out\" ceremony.\n"}
{"id": "2268863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2268863", "title": "Canine transmissible venereal tumor", "text": "Canine transmissible venereal tumor\n\nCanine transmissible venereal tumors (CTVTs), also called transmissible venereal tumors (TVTs), canine transmissible venereal sarcoma (CTVS), sticker tumors and infectious sarcoma is a histiocytic tumor of the external genitalia of the dog and other canines, and is transmitted from animal to animal during mating. It is one of only three known transmissible cancers in mammals; the others are devil facial tumor disease, a cancer which occurs in Tasmanian devils, and contagious reticulum cell sarcoma of the Syrian hamster.\n\nThe tumor cells are themselves the infectious agents, and the tumors that form are not genetically related to the host dog. Although the genome of a CTVT is derived from a canid (probably a dog, wolf or coyote), it is now essentially living as a unicellular, asexually reproducing (but sexually transmitted) pathogen. Sequence analysis of the genome suggests it diverged from canids over 6,000 years ago; possibly much earlier. The most recent estimates of its time of origin place date it to about 11,000 years ago. However, the most recent common ancestor of \"extant\" tumors is more recent: it probably originated 200 to 2,500 years ago.\n\nCanine TVTs were initially described by Russian veterinarian M.A. Novinsky (1841–1914) in 1876, when he demonstrated that the tumor could be transplanted from one dog to another by infecting them with tumor cells.\n\nCanine transmissible venereal tumors are histiocytic tumors that may be transmitted among dogs through coitus, licking, biting and sniffing tumor affected areas. The concept that the tumor is naturally transmissible as an allograft came from three important observations. First, CTVTs can only be experimentally induced by transplanting living tumor cells, and not by killed cells or cell filtrates. Second, the tumor karyotype is aneuploid but has characteristic marker chromosomes in all tumors collected in different geographic regions. Third, a long interspersed nuclear element (LINE-1) insertion near c-myc has been found in all tumors examined so far and can be used as a diagnostic marker to confirm that a tumor is a CTVT.\n\nThe CTVT cells have fewer chromosomes than normal cells. Dog cells normally have 78 chromosomes; The cancer cells contain 57–64 chromosomes that are very different in appearance from normal dog chromosomes. All dog chromosomes except X and Y are acrocentric, having a centromere very near to the end of the chromosome, while many of the CTVT chromosomes are metacentric or submetacentric, having a centromere nearer to the middle. There is no evidence that the tumor is caused by a virus or virus-like organism. The infectious agent of canine transmissible venereal tumor is the cancer cell itself and the tumor is clonal in origin. All tumor cells of this type of cancer share extremely similar genetic code, often if not always unrelated to the DNA of their host. Specifically, the LINE-1 element in the tumor cells is in a different location than in normal canine DNA. This demonstrates that the tumors do not arise from separate cancerous transformation in individual animals. Rather, the malignant tumor cells from one dog are transferred to another.\n\nCanine transmissible venereal tumors are most commonly seen in sexually active dogs in tropical and subtropical climates. The disease is spread when dogs mate, and it can even be transmitted to other canine species, such as foxes and coyotes. Spontaneous regression of the tumor can occur, probably due to a response from the immune system. CTVT undergoes a predictable cycle: the initial growth phase of four to six months (P phase), a stable phase, and a regression phase (R phase), although not all CTVTs will regress. The tumor does not often metastasize (occurring in about less than 5 percent of cases), except in puppies and immunocompromised dogs. Metastasis occurs to regional lymph nodes, but can also be seen in the skin, brain, eye, liver, spleen, testicle, rectum and muscle. A biopsy is necessary for diagnosis.\n\nThe success of this single cell lineage, believed to be the longest continually propagated cell lineage in the world, can be attributed to the tumor’s mode of transmission in a specific host system. Although direct contact is generally not a highly efficient mode of transfer, CTVTs take advantage of the popular sire effect of domestic dogs. A single male can produce dozens of litters over his lifetime, allowing the tumor to affect many more females than it could if a monogamous species were the host. Understanding the epidemiology of CTVTs is hoped to provide insights for populations that may experience CTVT exposure and\ninformation about disease prevalence. Canine transmissible venereal tumors are more often found in temperate climates where there are large populations of stray dogs, but little is known about the details of transmission.\n\nIn male dogs, the tumor affects the penis and foreskin. In female dogs, it affects the vulva. Rarely, the mouth or nose are affected. The tumor often has a cauliflower-like appearance. Signs of genital TVT include a discharge from the prepuce and in some cases urinary retention, from blockage of the urethra. Signs of a nasal TVT include nasal fistulae, nosebleeds and other nasal discharge, facial swelling, and enlargement of the submandibular lymph nodes.\n\nSurgery may be difficult due to the location of these tumors. Surgery alone often leads to recurrence. Chemotherapy is very effective for TVTs. The prognosis for complete remission with chemotherapy is excellent. The most common chemotherapy agents used are vincristine, vinblastine, and doxorubicin. Radiotherapy may be required if chemotherapy does not work.\n\n"}
{"id": "31356226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31356226", "title": "Cofactor engineering", "text": "Cofactor engineering\n\nCofactor engineering, A\nCofactors are non-protein compounds that bind to proteins and are required for the proteins normal catalytic functionality. Cofactors can be considered “helper molecules” in biological activity, and often affect the functionality of enzymes. Cofactors can be both organic and inorganic compounds. Some examples of inorganic cofactors are iron or magnesium, and some examples of organic cofactors include ATP or coenzyme A. Organic cofactors are more specifically known as coenzymes, and many enzymes require the addition of coenzymes to assume normal catalytic function in a metabolic reaction. The coenzymes bind to the active site of an enzyme to promote catalysis. By engineering cofactors and coenzymes, a naturally occurring metabolic reaction can be manipulated to optimize the output of a metabolic network.\n\nCofactors were discovered by Arthur Harden and William Young in 1906, when they found that the rate of alcoholic fermentation in unboiled yeast extracts increased when boiled yeast extract was added. A few years after, Hans von Euler-Chelpin identified the cofactor in the boiled extract as NAD. Other cofactors, such as ATP and coenzyme A, were discovered later in the 1900s. The mechanism of cofactor activity was discovered when, Otto Heinrich Warburg determined in 1936 that NAD functioned as an electron acceptor. Well after these initial discoveries, scientists began to realize that the manipulation of cofactor concentrations could be used as tools for the improvement of metabolic pathways.\n\nAn important group of organic cofactors is the family of molecules referred to as vitamins. Vitamin B12 (cobalamin), for example, plays a crucial role in the human body, while coenzyme B12, its derivative, is found in the metabolisms of every type of cell in our bodies. Its presence affects the synthesis and regulation of cellular DNA as well as taking part in fatty acid synthesis and energy production. Cofactors are required by many important metabolic pathways, and it is possible for the concentrations of a single type of cofactor to affect the fluxes of many different pathways .\n\nMinerals and metallic ions that organisms uptake through their diet provide prime examples of inorganic cofactors. For instance Zn is needed to assist the enzyme carbonic anhydrase as it converts carbon dioxide and water to bicarbonate and protons. A widely recognized mineral that acts as a cofactor is iron, which is essential for the proper function of hemoglobin, the oxygen transporting protein found in red blood cells. This example in particular highlights the importance of cofactors in animal metabolism.\n\nCofactor engineering is significant in the manipulation of metabolic pathways. A metabolic pathway is a series of chemical reactions that occur in an organism. Metabolic engineering is the subject of altering the fluxes within a metabolic pathway. In metabolic engineering, a metabolic pathway can be directly altered by changing the functionality of the enzymes involved in the pathway. Cofactor engineering, offers a distinct approach, and some advantages, to altering a metabolic pathway. Instead of changing the enzymes used in a pathway, the cofactors can be changed. This may give metabolic engineers an advantage due to certain properties of cofactors and how they can be modified.\n\nMetabolic pathways can be used by metabolic engineers to create a desired product. By modifying the types of cofactors used and the times at which they are used, the outcome of the metabolic network can change. To create a greater production of a product, metabolic engineers have the ability to supply the network with whichever cofactor is best suited for that specific process. This leads to the optimization of networks to give a higher production of desired products. Also, changing the cofactors used in a network may be an ingenious solution to a complicated problem. A network that is present in the cell, but is often unused, may have a desirable product. Instead of engineering a completely new set of pathways to produce the product, cofactor engineering can be applied. By replacing enzymes to use cofactors readily available in a cell, the typically unused network is no longer cofactor-limited, and production may be increased.\n\nIn addition to modifying the yield of metabolic networks, changing the cofactors used in a network can reduce operation costs when trying to form a desired product. NADH and NADPH are two extremely common cellular cofactors, differing only by the presence of a phosphate group. However, this phosphate group makes NADPH much less stable than NADH, and therefore more expensive to synthesize. Thus, it is advantageous to try and use NADH is some cellular networks because it is often cheaper, more readily available, and accomplishes the same task as NADPH.\n\nCofactor engineering most often deals with the manipulation of microorganisms such as \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\" and \"Escherichia coli\", and as such requires the use of recombinant DNA techniques. These techniques utilize small circular segments of DNA called plasmids, which can be introduced and incorporated by microorganisms such as \"Escherichia coli\". These plasmids are specifically designed in labs to be easily incorporated, and affect the expression of various protein, metabolites and enzymes. For instance, a particular plasmid may cause a change in an enzyme's amino acid sequence, which could increase its affinity for a particular substrate.\n\nMicroorganisms require a medium to grow in, and one commonly used for cultures of \"Escherichia coli\" is Luria-Bertani (LB) broth. This medium is often supplemented with glucose and will often contain additional molecules designed to facilitate optimal culture growth. Pre-cultures may then be grown in shake flasks. These are simply plugged Erlenmeyer flasks which are left on an orbital shaker machine, which revolves at very high RPM. This process aerates the culture, which is necessary for optimal growth. Once the pre-cultures are ready, the plasmids needed by specific experiments are added to each culture separately, and then each culture is transferred to a bio-reactor. Bio-reactors are systems which allow cultures to grow in a controlled environment. This leaves the introduced plasmids as the only independent variable. The required temperature, pH, metabolite concentrations, and various other environmental factors can be maintained by the bio-reactor ensuring identical growth conditions for each culture.\n\nOnce samples are allowed to grow in the reactor for a specified period, they can be removed and studied to determine whether the intended alterations to the organism are evident. Since cofactor engineering most often deals with metabolic pathways, these organisms are often studied but introducing specific tagged fluorescent metabolites and documenting their progression through various pathways. In other cases results are more obvious and easily observable, such as with the decreased ethanol production of yeast referred to below.\n\nBiocatalysts are required for the production of chiral building blocks needed in pharmaceuticals and other chemicals used by society. Many such biocatalysts require NADPH as a cofactor. NADPH, a cofactor quite similar to NADH, is both more expensive and less stable than its counterpart NADH. For these reasons, manufacturers would prefer that the biocatalysts they use in their production lines accept NADH over NADPH. Cofactor engineering has recently been successful in altering enzymes to prefer NADH as a cofactor instead of NADPH. In 2010, a group of scientists performed cofactor engineering on the enzyme Gre2p, an NADPH-preferring dehydrogenase found in \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\". Gre2p reduces the compound diketone 2,5-hexanedione into the chiral building blocks (5S)-hydroxy-2-hexanone and (2S,5S)-hexanediol. The scientists determined that Asn9 (Asparagine, position 9) was an important amino acid the active site of Gre2p. Specifically, Asn9 binds to the 3’-hydroxyl group and the 2’-oxygen atom of adenyl ribose moiety. Through direct mutagenesis, the scientists exchanged the Asn9 for both Asp (Aspartic Acid) and Glu (Glutamic Acid). This change caused Gre2p to have a decreased dependency on NADPH, and an increased affinity for NADH. This resulted in increased Gre2p activity when using NADH. It was observed that substituting Asn9 with Glu produced a greater effect than changing Asn9 to Asp. Asn contains a polar uncharged side chain, while both Asp and Glu contain a polar charged side chain. The increased effect of Glu is caused by the extra carbon in its side chain that brings it closer to adenyl ribose moiety. This allows for stronger hydrogen bonding between the 2’- and 3’- ribose hydroxyl groups and the side chain carboxyl group. The maximum velocity of the reaction doubled, while using NADH, when Asn9 was substituted with Glu. With these results, the scientists successfully engineered Gre2p to prefer NADH over NADPH and increased the speed of 2,5-hexanedione reduction. This will allow chemical companies to decrease their manufacturing costs by using NADH instead of NADPH at least for this particular reduction.\n\nAn alternative example of changing an enzyme’s preference for cofactors is to change NADH dependent reaction to NADPH dependent reactions. In this example, the enzymes themselves are not changed, but instead different enzymes are selected that accomplish the same reaction with the use of a different cofactor. An engineered pathway was created to make 1-butanol from Acetyl-CoA by changing enzymes in the metabolic pathway of S. elongatus. The Clostridium genus is known to produce 1-butanol, providing a pathway that could be inserted in S. elongatus. This pathway synthesizes 1-butanol using the reverse β-oxidation pathway. The enzymes involved in this newly engineered pathway were NADH specific, which was problematic for replicating the pathway in S. elongatus as cyanobacteria produce much more NADPH than NADH.\n\nThe research group then identified enzymes that utilize NADPH or both NADPH and NADH by bioprospecting. Acetoacetyl-CoA reductase (PhaB) was found to be a suitable replacement for hydroxybutyric dehydrogenase (Hbd). To replace AdhE2, the researchers found that NADP-dependent alcohol dehydrogenase (YqhD) from E. coli to be effective for the pathway. Furthermore, the researchers needed a dehydrogenase to replace the aldehyde dehydrogenase capacity of AdhE2. CoA-acylating butyraldehyde dehydrogenase (Bldh) from C. saccharoperbutylacetonicum was found to be a good suit. Together, PhaB, Bldh, YqhD can replace Hbd and AdhE2, respectively, to change the cofactor preference of 3-ketobutyryl-CoA reduction from using NADH to using NADPH. The authors then constructed various combinations of the different enzymes (of those found in the reverse oxidation pathway and the NADPH utilizing enzymes) by overexpressing different genes in cultures of S. elongatus PCC 7942. In order to do so, they constructed plasmids containing the genes corresponding to the enzymes and combined them into the genome of S. elongates. After enzyme assays, the strain of cyanobacteria expressing the NADPH utilizing enzymes produced the greatest amount of 1-butanol (29.9 mg/L), exceeding that of strains that did not consist of the NADPH utilizing enzymes by four times. Overall, 1-butanol was produced in S. elongatus using a pathway from another organism. This pathway was modified in order to match the preferred reducing cofactor for the cyanobacteria.\n\nIn cofactor engineering, a metabolic pathway is altered by changing the concentrations of specific cofactors that are produced either in that particular pathway or in a separate pathway. For example, an hypothetical organism could have two arbitrary pathways called A and B where some enzymes in both A and B utilize the same cofactors. If scientists wanted to decrease the output of pathway A, they may first consider directly engineering the enzymes involved in A, perhaps to decrease a particular active site's affinity for its substrate. In some cases however, the enzymes in A may be difficult to engineer for various reasons, or it may be impossible to engineer them without dangerously affecting some third metabolic pathway C, which utilizes the same enzymes. As a separate option, scientists could increase the flux of B, which may be easier to engineer. This in turn could \"tie up\" the cofactors needed by A, which would slow enzymatic activity, decreasing output in A. This is one hypothetical example of how cofactor engineering can be used, but there are many other unique cases where scientists use cofactors as a way of altering metabolic pathways. A major advantage to cofactor engineering is that scientists can use it to successfully alter metabolic pathways that are difficult to engineer by means of ordinary metabolic engineering. This is achieved by targeting more easily engineered enzymes in separate pathways, which use the same cofactors. Since many cofactors are used by different enzymes in multiple pathways, cofactor engineering may be an efficient, cost effective alternative to current methods of metabolic engineering.\nYeast are commonly used in the beer and wine industry because they are capable of efficiently producing ethanol through the metabolic pathway fermentation in the absence of oxygen. Fermentation requires the enzyme glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GPDH) which depends on the cofactor NADH. This pathway involves the conversion of glucose to both ethanol and glycerol, both of which use NADH as a cofactor. Scientists engineered \"Saccharomyces cerevisiae\" to overproduce GPDH, which shifted the cells metabolic flux away from ethanol and toward glycerol, by limiting NADH availability in the ethanol production portion of the pathway. The opposite effect was achieved by influencing a separate pathway in the cell, the Glutamate Synthesis pathway. Inactivating the expression of the enzyme glutamate dehydrogenase, which is NADPH dependent, and over expressing the enzymes glutamine synthetase and glutamate synthetase, which rely on NADH as a cofactor shifted the cofactor balance in glutamate synthesis pathway. The pathway is now dependent on NADH rather than NADPH, which decreases NADH availability in the fermentation pathway. This in turn causes increased ethanol production and decreased glycerol production. This method of manipulating metabolic fluxes could be visualized much like global fuel markets, where the increased production of ethanol for use in the automotive industry would decrease its availability in the food industry. Essentially, producing more engines which run on ethanol could result in decreased consumption of processed sweets, which contain high fructose corn syrup. This engineering of cofactors is applicable to the beer and wine industry since it allows for the regulation of ethanol levels in alcoholic beverages. Advancements in the wine industry have caused a steady increase in ethanol content, so winemakers in particular would be interested in the possibility of reducing the ethanol levels of some of their wines.\n\nCoenzyme A (CoA) and acetyl-CoA are two intermediate metabolites, most notably found in the Citric Acid Cycle, which participate in over 100 different reactions in the metabolism of microorganisms. Recent experiments have shown that over expression of the enzyme pantothenate kinase and supplementation of pantothenic acid in the CoA biosynthesis pathway have allowed adjustments of both CoA and acetyl-CoA fluxes. This increased concentration of cofactors resulted in an increased carbon flux in the isoamyl acetate synthesis pathway, increase the production efficiency of isoamyl acetate. Isoamyl acetate is used industrially for artificial flavoring and for testing the effectiveness of respirators. In addition to the production of isoamyl acetate, the manipulation of CoA biosynthesis during the pyruvate hydrogenase reaction also causes an increase in the production of both succinate and lycopene, each of which have beneficial effects on the human body. An increase in succinate concentration, which is used as a catalyst, may lead to an increase in the speed of the Citric Acid Cycle, and consequently an individual's metabolism. Increasing lycopene concentrations, has been shown to decrease the risk of prostate cancer. The potential rewards of repeating such feat of cofactor engineering and successfully incorporating them into industry practices are innumerable.\n\nMany important industrial enzymes use cofactors to catalyze reactions. By using cofactors to manipulate metabolic pathways, it is possible to reduce material cost, eliminate steps in production, reduce production time, decrease pollution, and increase overall production efficiency. One case that demonstrates several of these manufacturing benefits involves the genetic engineering of aspen trees. In the paper production process, manufacturing plants must break down lignin, a biochemical compound that gives a tree trunk its stiffness, in order to form the pulp used throughout the rest of production. The chemical pulping process requires the manufacturing plant to use a significant amount of energy, as well as many expensive and toxic chemicals. A group of genetic engineers, through cofactor engineering, engineered a genetically superior aspen tree that produced less lignin. These genetically engineered trees have allowed for paper mills to reduce their costs, pollution, and manufacturing time.\n\nA short description of other significant examples where cofactor engineering has been used.\n"}
{"id": "58828704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58828704", "title": "Deaf mental health care", "text": "Deaf mental health care\n\nDeaf mental health care is the providing of counseling, therapy, and other psychiatric services to people who are deaf and hard of hearing in ways that are culturally aware and linguistically accessible. It term also covers research, training, and services in ways that improve mental health for deaf people. These services consider those with a variety of hearing levels and experiences with deafness focusing on their psychological well-being. The National Association of the Deaf has identified that specialized services and knowledge of the Deaf increases successful mental health services to this population. States such as North Carolina, South Carolina, and Alabama have specialized Deaf mental health services. The Alabama Department of Mental Health has established an office of Deaf services to serve the more than 39,000 deaf and hard of hearing person who will require mental health services.\n\nThere are multiple models of deafness; Deaf mental health focuses on a cultural model in that people who are deaf view themselves as part of a socio-cultural linguistic community, rather than people with a medical deficit or disability. Accordingly, providing deaf mental heath care to people of the Deaf community requires services from clinicians, doctors, and interpreters who are trained with this perspective and the inclusion of deaf professionals in this system of health care. \n\nEarly access to language in deaf children is important for normal development of language. Deprivation of language can negatively affect mental health and in severe cases can cause mental health syndrome. Access to auditory and visual language is important, and availability differs based on each child's abilities. Approximately 40% of deaf children also have additional disabilities.\n\nMany states have deaf schools and institutions that provide appropriate language models along with mental health services for their students and those in the surrounding Deaf communities. The Lexington School for the Deaf in Queens, New York provides a variety of educational and social services for the deaf. The Texas School for the Deaf in Austin, Texas also provides a focus on mental health for students.\n\nDeaf children in mainstream schools may be more neglected in the classroom than their hearing peers. It is also more common for deaf children to have a harder time making friends. Bullying can occur frequently among children who are deaf or hard of hearing, which can lead to negative mental health outcomes.\n\nFor a deaf person, obtaining access to proper medical treatment is challenging and they face a variety of obstacles in communication and access. This can include the way in which medical professionals initiate patient's various health exams without prior modification suitable for deaf individuals. Communication challenges and lack of doctor awareness of the culture and language of the deaf can lead deaf patients to avoid making medical appointments. An increase in the amount of professionals who are trained in American Sign Language (ASL) and have experience with Deaf culture increase positive mental health outcomes for deaf people.\n\nAge-related hearing loss gradually occurs in many people as they get older, typically affecting those over the age of 65. This type of hearing loss can lead to feelings of embarrassment and isolation due to the fact that those affected may no longer be able to hear family, friends, or simple everyday sounds. Those with hearing loss are less likely to want to engage in social activities due to frustration over not being able to hear. A study conducted by the National Council of Aging (NCOA) showed that a large portion of elders with hearing loss who were studied, reported symptoms of lasting depression. Higher rates of exclusion from social and employment opportunities due to higher rates of miscommunication, making deaf adults more susceptible to mental illnesses. \n\nStudies have found that when a person becomes deaf at an older age, it has a less extreme impact on their mental health than it does when hearing loss begins at an earlier age. However, those who were either born deaf or lost their hearing at a younger age and then age as a deaf person face some particularly difficult challenges. When a non-deaf person ages, isolationist tendencies are generally increased. This increase is even more drastic for deaf people. Furthermore, many technological advancements that are heavily dependent on auditory communication also present challenges to deaf people.\n\nThe type and onset of deafness may cause different types of language disfluencies, diagnoses, and treatments of clients who are deaf. Cultural knowledge, language skills (e.g., fluency in ASL or access to trained interpreters), and other social-cultural factors are part of the deaf mental health access model. Lack of knowledge about Deaf culture and sign language among mental health professionals can make it difficult for deaf people to access appropriate services.\n\nThe National Association of the Deaf has eight recommendations for qualifications of interpreters working in mental health settings:\n\n\nSpecific knowledge and training in mental health contexts is necessary for adequate sign language interpreting for mental health clients. Accordingly, the State of Alabama requires \"Certification of mental health interpreters for persons who are deaf\" for interpreters to work in mental health contexts, and this certification must be renewed yearly by either: a) working 40 hours in clinical settings; b) attending 40 hours of training; or c) a combination of work in clinical settings and training equaling 40 hours. To provide the opportunity for education and training, the Alabama Department of Mental Health's Office of Deaf Services established the Alabama's Mental Health Interpreter Training Project. \n\n"}
{"id": "12037198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12037198", "title": "Diabetology Ltd", "text": "Diabetology Ltd\n\nDiabetology Ltd is a biopharmaceutical company founded in 2002 and registered in Saint Helier, Jersey. The company develops oral drugs for the treatment of diabetes mellitus.\n\nCurrently, the company doesn't have a marketed product, though its pipeline includes one drug that has recently completed phase II clinical development, one in phase II clinical development, and three in pre-clinical development.\n\n"}
{"id": "38042515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38042515", "title": "Donna Campbell", "text": "Donna Campbell\n\nDonna Sue Burrows Campbell (born September 9, 1954) is the 25th District member of the Texas Senate. On July 31, 2012, she became the first person in Texas history to defeat an incumbent Republican senator, Jeff Wentworth of San Antonio, in a primary election. She is a medical doctor who practices as an emergency department physician.\n\nCampbell represents a district that serves all of Comal County, a small portion of Guadalupe County, a large portion of Hays County, all of Kendall County, and portions of northern Bexar and southern Travis counties.\n\nCampbell was born on the naval base in San Diego, California, and reared in Oklahoma. Her father served in the U.S. Navy and later as a trooper in the highway patrol. Her mother was a factory worker for much of her life but became a registered nurse at the age of forty-eight.\n\nCampbell obtained her undergraduate degree in Nursing from Central State University in Edmond, Oklahoma. Campbell earned her Masters of Nursing from Texas Woman’s University. She specialized in cardiovascular clinical nursing and nursing administration.\n\nShe received her M.D. from Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center in Lubbock in May 1989 and completed an internship in general surgery at Methodist Hospital in Dallas from 1989–1990. She completed her residency at the University of Texas Medical Center in Houston from 1990 to 1993.\n\nCampbell is the medical director of the emergency department at Columbus Community Hospital in Columbus, Texas, a city west of Houston.\n\nCampbell is a member of the American Academy of Physician Specialists and the Texas Medical Association.\n\nCampbell has volunteered her time and expertise to perform hundreds of eye surgeries in Ghana, West Africa, working through the Christian Eye Ministry, an organization which focuses its efforts to bring back sight to people living in Africa.\n\nOn her first day in the legislature, an aide to Senator John Whitmire passed out and Campbell provided assistance.\n\nCampbell was named the vice chair of Nominations Committee and given a seat on the Education and Transportation Committees of the Senate.\n\nCampbell is conservative. Campbell is also pro-life. Texas Governor Rick Perry and Campbell support a proposed 2013 law, one that would restrict abortions after the twentieth week of pregnancy, place abortion clinics in the same regulatory category as other ambulatory surgery centers, and require doctors who perform abortions have admitting privileges at a hospital within thirty miles of the facility where they perform abortions.\n\nCampbell married her husband, Stan Campbell, in 2000 and has four adopted daughters. They live in New Braunfels, Texas\n\nCampbell, running as the \"Tea Party favorite\", lost to U.S. Representative Lloyd Doggett by an eight percent margin in the 2010 Congressional election for the 25th District Congressional seat.\n\nIn the Republican primary on May 29, 2012 for Texas Senate District 25, Campbell came in second, advancing to the runoff. Elizabeth Ames Jones, the former Railroad Commissioner was eliminated from the runoff. The incumbent, Jeff Wentworth, who was in the Texas Senate for more than two decades, led the voting with 27,040 votes; Campbell followed with 25,458 primary votes. With 23,075 votes, Jones finished in a strong third place in the primary.\n\nIn the Republican primary, Wentworth spent $727,568. Campbell spent about $175,000. And Jones, who had the backing of Texans for Lawsuit Reform’s political action committee, spent $1,754,310.\n\nCampbell defeated incumbent Jeff Wentworth, who was in the Texas Senate for over two decades, by a two-to-one margin in the state Senate primary runoff on July 31, 2012. Campbell defeated Wentworth in every county in the 25th District except the portion of the district in southern Travis County. She built upon the base of support she gathered during the 2010 run for Congress to create the numbers that she needed to finish second in the Republican primary on May 29 and to win the July 31 Republican primary runoff against Wentworth. After the results were announced Campbell stated, \"People were tired of the status quo government – that's the folks who came out and voted for us. We have a large grass-roots movement. People identified with our message: smaller government, lower taxes and a vision for having a strong economy with job creation in the private sector.\" Campbell also stated that she believed that she benefited from the endorsement of Ted Cruz. Others saw her win as a victory for the Tea Party over the establishment Republicans.\n\nIn the general election for the Texas Senate District 25 of November 6, 2012, Campbell won a victory over John Courage, a high school teacher from San Antonio. Campbell easily out-spent Courage and took two-thirds of the votes.\n\nIn the Republican primary on March 4, 2014, Campbell won re-nomination to her first four-year term in the state Senate. She received 40,767 votes (55.4 percent). Her two opponents, Elisa Chan and Mike Novak, received 17,887 votes (24.3 percent) and 14,942 (20.3 percent), respectively.\n\nOn the last day of the regular legislative session in 2017, Democrat Jose Menendez of San Antonio used a filibuster to kill Campbell's bill which would have made it more difficult for municipalities to annex surrounding territory.\n\n"}
{"id": "44055412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44055412", "title": "EMIAS", "text": "EMIAS\n\nUnited Medical Information and Analytical System of Moscow (\"EMIAS\") is a complex information system that automatises the booking of hospital visits and work of medical professionals in Moscow city. The system includes online appointment services, Electronic Health Record management, and Electronic prescribing based on \"Cloud\" technology. EMIAS is the digital system designed to increase the quality and access of medical services in public health clinics. The project was designed and is being implemented as part of the «Digital city» program in execution with the Moscow Government's order from April 7, 2014 (as Moscow government amended on 21.05.2013 № 22-PP).\n\nThe main goal of EMIAS is to make free medical services more available, superior, and convenient for citizens. This is accomplished by making medical information more accessible to medical professionals thereby saving valuable time on paperwork, scheduling, and in gathering medical information. EMIAS offers the leaders of medical institutions and the leaders within the medical sector, a smart and authentic analysis tool that will result in the effective management of Moscow's health care systems.\n\nThe project is developed and being implemented as part of “Digital city” program by Moscow IT department. As of October 1, 2013, 557 public health facilities including female counselling centers and dental clinics got involved in EMIAS. Furthermore, EMIAS is organizing and uniting information between outpatient and inpatient facilities.\n\nEMIAS is one of the biggest electronic medical systems in Europe involving over 600 medical institutions and 23 000 medical workers. About 7.7 million people are currently using the system and over 114 000 000 transactions have been made within the first year of the system’s launch.\n\nThe system allows managing flows of patients, contains outpatient card integrated in the system, and provides an opportunity to manage consolidated managerial accounting and personalized list of medical help. Besides that, the system contains information about availability of the medical institutions and various doctors. EMIAS allows managing medical registers to resolve medical organizing questions concerning different categories of people, having specific diseases.\n\nEMIAS is being implemented in three steps. The first step is switching the registration process to be completely electronic at public clinics and hospitals. This will allow people to schedule a visit to a doctor remotely. The second step of implementation is creating medical records and using electronic prescriptions for each patient which will be consolidated and shared throughout the public medical sector. The third step will be in uniting the public medical sector with the private medical sector through the sharing of medical records and the introduction of EMIAS services.\n\n\nThe objects of the automatisation are outpatient medical facilities of Moscow such as:\n\n\nAccording to the annual competition of Russian Ministry of Communications and ComNews «Best 10 IT projects for public sector 2013», EMIAS was acknowledged \"The biggest project in Health Care System» and won «The best IS» in Health Care according to \"Global CIO\" competition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38467438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38467438", "title": "Edith Quimby", "text": "Edith Quimby\n\nEdith Hinkley Quimby (July 10, 1891 – October 11, 1982) was an American medical researcher and physicist, best known as one of the founders of nuclear medicine. Her work involved developing diagnostic and therapeutic applications of X-rays. One of her main concerns was protecting both those handling the radioactive material and making sure that those being treated were given the lowest dose necessary.\n\nShe was born on July 10, 1891 in Rockford, Illinois. In 1912, she graduated from Whitman College in Washington with a bachelor's degree in mathematics and physics. After a brief stint teaching high school in Nyssa, Oregon, she was awarded a 1914 fellowship for her master's degree studies at the University of California which she earned in 1916. \n\nIn 1919 she moved to New York City, where she took a job at the Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases as assistant physicist to Gioacchino Failla, which was very rare for a woman in her time; she became an associate physicist there in 1932. Her working relationship with Failla continued for another forty years. In 1919 she joined the Center for Radiological Research, remaining at Columbia's medical school until 1978. Her research at Memorial Hospital delved into safe doses of medicinal radiation, observing the energy emitted by potential materials for nuclear medicine as well as the amount of radiation absorbed by the body from different sources. She also studied the potential of synthesised radioactive materials for treating cancer and in other medical research applications.\n\nIn 1941 she joined the faculty of Cornell University Medical College as an assistant professor of radiology. The next year, she became an associate professor of radiation physics at the College of Physicians and Surgeons at In Columbia University. She was promoted to full professor in 1954 and retired in 1960.\n\nQuimby received many awards for her work throughout her career and participated in several scientific societies. In 1940, she was the first women to received the Janeway Medal from American Radium Society. The following year, she was awarded the Gold Medal of the Radiological Society of North America, for work which \"placed every radiologist in her debt.\". She was elected president of the American Radium Society in 1954. In 1963, the American College of Radiology honoured her with its Gold Medal. She was one of the first members of the American Association of Physicists in Medicine.\n\nIn 1962 she released a paper titled 'Late Radiation Effects in Roentgen Therapy for Hyperthyroidism' where she suggested ceasing all Roentgen therapy (Radiation Therapy) until we had a better idea of how this kind of treatment affected patients in the long term.\n\nShe was one of three children of Arthur S. Hinkley, a farmer and architect, and Harriet Hinkley, She married Shirley Leon Quimby, in 1915.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18977457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18977457", "title": "Efficiency of food conversion", "text": "Efficiency of food conversion\n\nThe efficiency of conversion of ingested food to unit of body substance (ECI, also termed \"growth efficiency\") is an index measure of food fuel efficiency in animals. The ECI is a rough scale of how much of the food ingested is converted into growth in the animal's mass. It can be used to compare the growth efficiency as measured by the weight gain of different animals from consuming a given quantity of food relative to its size.\n\nThe ECI effectively represents efficiencies of both digestion (approximate digestibility or AD) and metabolic efficiency, or how well digested food is converted to mass (efficiency of conversion of digested food or ECD). The formula for the efficiency of food fuel is thus:\n\nThese concepts are also very closely related to the feed conversion ratio (FCR) and feed efficiency.\n"}
{"id": "28677498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28677498", "title": "Epidemiology of leprosy", "text": "Epidemiology of leprosy\n\nWorldwide, two to three million people are estimated to be permanently disabled because of leprosy. India has the greatest number of cases, with Brazil second and Indonesia third.\n\nIn 1999, the world incidence of Hansen's disease was estimated to be 640,000. In 2000, 738,284 cases were identified. In 2000, the World Health Organization (WHO) listed 91 countries in which Hansen's disease is endemic. India, Myanmar and Nepal contained 70% of cases. India reports over 50% of the world's leprosy cases. In 2002, 763,917 new cases were detected worldwide, and in that year the WHO listed Brazil, Madagascar, Mozambique, Tanzania and Nepal as having 90% of Hansen's disease cases.\n\nAccording to recent figures from the WHO, new cases detected worldwide have decreased by approximately 107,000 cases (or 21%) from 2003 to 2004. This decreasing trend has been consistent for the past three years. In addition, the global registered prevalence of HD was 286,063 cases; 407,791 new cases were detected during 2004.\n\nIn the United States, Hansen's disease is tracked by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), with a total of 92 cases being reported in 2002. Although the number of cases worldwide continues to fall, pockets of high prevalence continue in certain areas such as Brazil, South Asia (India, Nepal), some parts of Africa (Tanzania, Madagascar, Mozambique) and the western Pacific.\n\nAt highest risk are those living in endemic areas with poor conditions such as inadequate bedding, contaminated water and insufficient diet, or other diseases (such as HIV) that compromise immune function. Recent research suggests that there is a defect in cell-mediated immunity that causes susceptibility to the disease. Less than ten percent of the world's population is actually capable of acquiring the disease.\n\nThe region of DNA responsible for this variability is also involved in Parkinson disease, giving rise to current speculation that the two disorders may be linked in some way at the biochemical level. In addition, men are twice as likely to contract leprosy as women. According to The Leprosy Mission Canada, most people—about 95% of the population—are naturally immune.\n\nAlthough annual incidence—the number of new leprosy cases occurring each year—is important as a measure of transmission, it is difficult to measure in leprosy due to its long incubation period, delays in diagnosis after onset of the disease and the lack of laboratory tools to detect leprosy in its very early stages. Instead, the registered prevalence is used. Registered prevalence is a useful proxy indicator of the disease burden as it reflects the number of active leprosy cases diagnosed with the disease and receiving treatment with MDT at a given point in time. The prevalence rate is defined as the number of cases registered for MDT treatment among the population in which the cases have occurred, again at a given point in time.\n\nNew case detection is another indicator of the disease that is usually reported by countries on an annual basis. It includes cases diagnosed with onset of disease in the year in question (true incidence) and a large proportion of cases with onset in previous years (termed a backlog prevalence of undetected cases).\n\nEndemic countries also report the number of new cases with established disabilities at the time of detection, as an indicator of the backlog prevalence. Determination of the time of onset of the disease is generally unreliable, is very labor-intensive and is seldom done in recording these statistics.\n\nAs reported to WHO by 115 countries and territories in 2006, and published in the Weekly Epidemiological Record, the global registered prevalence of leprosy at the beginning of the year was 219,826 cases. New-case detection during the previous year (2005 - the last year for which full country information is available) was 296,499. The reason for the annual detections being higher than the prevalence at the end of the year can be explained by the fact that a proportion of new cases complete their treatment within the year and, therefore, no longer remain on the registers. The global detection of new cases continues to show a sharp decline, falling by 110,000 cases (27%) during 2005 compared with the previous year.\n\nTable 1 shows that global annual detection has been declining since 2001. The African region reported an 8.7% decline in the number of new cases compared with 2004. The comparable figure for the Americas was 20.1%, for South-East Asia 32%, and for the Eastern Mediterranean 7.6%. The Western Pacific area, however, showed a 14.8% increase during the same period.\n\nTable 2 shows the leprosy situation in the four major countries that have yet to achieve the goal of elimination at the national level. It should be noted that: a) Elimination is defined as a prevalence of less than 1 case per 10,000 population; b) Madagascar reached elimination at the national level in September 2006; c) Nepal detection reported from mid-November 2004 to mid-November 2005; and d) D.R. Congo officially reported to WHO in 2008 that it had reached elimination by the end of 2007, at the national level.\n\nIn 2013, there were 550 cases, of which 277 were considered as new cases. Between 350 and 400 cases of leprosy are diagnosed every year. In 1926 the law 11,359 ordered compulsory quarantine for the leper, that law was abolished by the law 22,964 in 1983, that ordered compulsory quarantine for the leper only if they refuse medical indications and involve some risk for the healthy population.\n\nFive leper colonies were built:\n\n\nOnly the \"Baldomero Sommer\" continues serving as a leper colony.\n\nLeprosy is a serious public health problem in Brazil, between 2001 and 2013 over 500,000 cases were reported and in 2015 alone over 25,000 cases were diagnosed.\n\nThe People's Republic of China has many leprosy recovered patients who have been isolated from the rest of society. In the 1950s the Chinese Communist government created \"Recovered Villages\" in rural remote mountaintops for the recovered patients. Although leprosy is now curable with the advent of the multi-drug treatment, the villagers remain because they have been stigmatized by the outside world. Health NGOs such as Joy in Action have arisen in China to especially focus on improving the conditions of \"Recovered Villages\".\n\nThe Hospital-Colónia Rovisco Pais (the Rovisco Pais Hospital-Colony) was founded in Portugal in 1947 as a national center for the treatment of leprosy. It was renamed in 2007 as the Centro de Medicina de Reabilitação da Região Centro-Rovisco Pais. It still retains a leprosy service in which 25 ex patients live. Between 1988 and 2003 102 patients were treated in Portugal for leprosy.\n\nThe Sanatorio de Fontilles (Fontilles Sanatorium) in Spain was founded in 1902 and admitted its first patient in 1909. In 2002, the Sanatorio had 68 in-patients in the Sanatorium, and more than 150 receiving out-patient treatment. A small number of cases continue to be reported.\n\nTwo indigenous cases were reported from Greece in 2009.\n\nOne case was reported in France in 2009\n\nLeprosy was almost eradicated in most of Europe by 1700 but sometime after 1850 leprosy was re introduced into East Prussia by Lithuanian rural workers immigrating from the Russian empire. The first leprosarium was founded in 1899 in Memel (now Klaipėda in Lithuania). Legislation was introduced in 1900 and 1904 requiring patients to be isolated and not allowed to work with others.\n\nThe last confirmed case of Leprosy being transmitted within the UK was in 1953. Between 2003 & 2012, an average of 139 cases/year of leprosy were diagnosed (& notified) in the UK, none of which are believed to have been acquired within the UK. The UK's national referral service for leprosy is run by Prof. Diana Lockwood, the UK's only Leprologist, at the Hospital for Tropical Diseases, London.\n\nThe first documented case of leprosy (\"erga corpore morbi leprae\") in Malta in a Gozitan woman (Garita Xejbais) was in 1492 but it is certain that it was present on the island before this time. The next recorded case was in 1630 in a Dominican friar. A report in 1687 recorded five cases. A further three cases were reported in 1808. Between 1839 and 1858 an additional seven cases were recorded. In 1890 a population survey recorded a total of 69 cases. A later survey in 1957 identified 151 people infected with leprosy.\n\nIn June 1972 an eradication programme was started. The project was based on the work of Enno Freerksen, Director of the Borsal Institute in Hamburg. Dr Freerksen's earlier trial had used rifampacin, izoniazid, dapsone and prothionamide. The Malta project used rifampacin, dapsone and clofamazine. The project formally concluded in 1999 having treated about 300 patients.\n\nThe last leper colony in Europe is at Tichileşti, Romania. Until 1991 patients were not allowed to leave the colony. At this colony patients get food, a place to sleep, clothes and medical attention. Some live in long pavilions and others in houses with vegetable and flower gardens. There are two churches in the colony - Orthodox and Baptist - and a farm where the colony grows its own corn.\n\nThere were cases of leprosy in Atlantic Canada at the end of the nineteenth century, beginning in 1815. The patients were first housed on Sheldrake Island in the Miramichi River and later transferred to Tracadie. Catholic nuns (the \"religieuses hospitalières de Saint-Joseph\", RHSJ) came to take care of the sick. They opened the first French-language hospital in New Brunswick and many more followed. Many hospitals opened by the RHSJ nuns are still in use today. The last hospital to house lepers in Tracadie was demolished in 1991. Its lazaretto section had been closed since 1965. In a century of existence, it had housed not only Acadian victims of the disease, but people from all over Canada as well as sick immigrants from Iceland, Russia and China, among other nations.\n\nCape Breton Island also suffered an outbreak, in the Lake Ainslie region. Nine people were affected, but it died out soon after 1882. Another outbreak of twenty cases occurred in the Lake O'Law region around 1852.\n\nIn the United States, the first definite reference to the disease was in Florida in 1758. In 2004, there were 131 total cases of the disease in the United States. Of the 131 cases, two-thirds were male. Also out of the 131 cases, 25 (19%) were of individuals who were born in the country. Mexico (18.3%), Micronesia (11.5%), Brazil (9.2%), and the Philippines (7.6%) were the next leading countries where those with the disease were originally born. A total of 20 cases were found to be white, not of Hispanic origin. As of October, 2005, 3,604 patients on the United States registry were currently receiving care. The disease is tracked by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), with a total of 166 new cases reported in the US in 2005. Most (100 or 60%) of these new cases were reported in California, Louisiana, Massachusetts, New York, and Texas.\n"}
{"id": "27467455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27467455", "title": "Excommunication of Margaret McBride", "text": "Excommunication of Margaret McBride\n\nThe excommunication of Margaret McBride occurred following the sanctioning by the American religious sister in November 2009 of an abortion at a Roman Catholic hospital in Phoenix. It was lifted in December 2011. Her decision and her subsequent excommunication aroused controversy in the areas of medical ethics and Catholic theology.\n\nSr. Margaret Mary McBride, R.S.M., is a Sister of Mercy. She received her Bachelor of Science in nursing and her Master of Public Administration from the University of San Francisco. She has served as a board member of several organizations, including Hospice of the Valley, Catholic Charities, Mercy Housing Southwest, and Southwest Catholic Health Network.\n\nMcBride was an administrator and member of the ethics committee at St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center, which is owned by Catholic Healthcare West(Dignity Health). On 27 November 2009, the committee was consulted on the case of a 27-year-old woman who was eleven weeks pregnant with her fifth child and suffering from pulmonary hypertension. Her doctors stated that the woman's chance of dying if the pregnancy was allowed to continue was \"close to 100 percent\".\n\nMcBride joined the ethics committee in approving the decision to terminate the pregnancy through an induced abortion. The abortion took place and the mother survived.\n\nAfterwards, the abortion came to the attention of Bishop Thomas J. Olmsted, the bishop of the Catholic Diocese of Phoenix. Olmsted spoke to McBride privately and she confirmed her participation in the procurement of the abortion. Olmsted informed her that in allowing the abortion, she had incurred a \"latae sententiae\", or automatic, excommunication. McBride was subsequently reassigned from her post as vice president of mission integration at the hospital.\n\nIn May 2010, the incident came to the attention of the \"Arizona Republic\" newspaper, which asked the hospital and the bishop for comments. Both the bishop and the hospital provided answers to the newspaper's request, and on 15 May 2010 the two statements were published online.\n\nIn December 2010, Olmsted announced that the Roman Catholic Diocese of Phoenix was severing its affiliation with the hospital, after months of discussion had failed to obtain from the hospital management a promise not to perform abortions in the future. \"If we are presented with a situation in which a pregnancy threatens a woman's life, our first priority is to save both patients. If that is not possible, we will always save the life we can save, and that is what we did in this case,\" said hospital president Linda Hunt. \"Morally, ethically, and legally, we simply cannot stand by and let someone die whose life we might be able to save.\"\n\nIn December 2011, a statement from St. Joseph's Hospital was emailed to the Catholic News Service announcing that McBride is no longer excommunicated and is in good standing with the Sisters of Mercy. She serves as the vice president for organizational outreach at the medical center. Neither the archdiocese nor the hospital provided further comment on her situation.\n\nThe incident rapidly became a touchstone in the culture wars in the United States.\n\nThe hospital's spokesperson explained that while the hospital follows the Ethical and Religious Directives for Catholic Health Care Services, these directives do not answer all questions. McBride's supporters have argued that the abortion was licit under the terms of Directive 47 of the \"Ethical and Religious Directives for Catholic Health Care Services\", issued by the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops. Those who reject this argument note that Directive 47 (which refers to \"operations, treatments, and medications that have as their direct purpose the cure of a proportionately serious pathological condition of a pregnant woman\") applies only in the case of the death of the unborn child as an unintended consequence, according to the \"principle of double effect\", while the preceding Directive 45 in the same document explicitly states \"Abortion (that is, the directly intended termination of pregnancy before viability or the directly intended destruction of a viable fetus) is never permitted. Every procedure whose sole immediate effect is the termination of pregnancy before viability is an abortion, which, in its moral context, includes the interval between conception and implantation of the embryo. Catholic health care institutions are not to provide abortion services, even based upon the principle of material cooperation.\" \n\nIn explanation of how McBride excommunicated herself through her actions, Father John Ehrich, medical ethics director for the diocese, issued a statement that stated \"The unborn child can never be thought of as a pathology or an illness. That is, the child is not that which threatens the life of the mother, rather it is the pathology or illness (cancer, premature rupture of membranes, hypertension, preeclampsia, etc.) which threatens the mother's life.\" Since \"no physician can predict what will happen with 100 percent accuracy\", Ehrich wrote, \"What we should not do ... is lower risks associated with pregnancy by aborting children.\"\n\nHowever, critics condemned the decision and suggested that it reflected larger trends. Jacob M. Appel, a leading American bioethicist, questioned \"if women are safe in Catholic hospitals\" following Olmsted's announcement. Appel wrote that, \"Like many Catholic hospitals, St. Joseph's has long had two conflicting policies regarding maternal-fetal conflict on its books. One directive states that abortion is never permitted, even to save the life of the mother, while the other notes that 'operations, treatments and medications that have as their direct purpose the cure of a proportionately serious pathological condition of a pregnant woman are permitted...even if they will result in the death of the unborn child...Until this recent incident, pregnant women could safely assume that Catholic hospitals would follow both the law and widespread standards of medical ethics in allowing the second directive to trump the first. Suddenly, that time-honored understanding appears to be in jeopardy.\"\n\nCatholics for Choice, an independent pro-choice organization, also expressed concerns regarding the decision. Its president, Jon O'Brien, said, \"While not all the facts are available, it is clear that the Vatican's hard line on abortion led to this terrible situation. Sadly, we see situations like this time after time, both here in the US and abroad. The Vatican's outright ban on all abortions is insensitive and reflects an unwillingness to acknowledge the reality of women's lives, including the difficult decisions that often have to be made during a pregnancy.\"\n\nThe Reverend Thomas Doyle, a well-known canon lawyer, noted that the bishop \"clearly had other alternatives than to declare her excommunicated.\" Doyle argued that this case highlights a \"gross inequity\" in how the church chooses to handle scandal. He noted that no priests have been excommunicated for sexual abuse, suggesting a double standard within the church, (although this is now no longer the case, since pedophile priest Jose Mercau was excommunicated by Pope Francis).\n\nAmong those defending the excommunication were the Catholic Physicians Guild of Phoenix led by William H. Brophy. Brophy wrote that \"an action which is in and of itself wrong, in that it lacks goodness as discerned by the light of human reason, is never justified by circumstances or intended end.\"\n\nThe theologian Michael Liccone stated, \"The Church does not condemn 'indirect abortion': abortion that is a foreseen but unintended side effect of a medical procedure designed to preserve the mother's life,\" saying that McBride, considered an ethics expert at the hospital, had explained her decision by telling Olmsted that she saw the abortion in this scenario as indirect. Liccone said that Olmsted's decision to say that McBride had excommunicated herself, rather than to excommunicate her \"ferendae sententiae\" \"by his own juridical act\", raised questions.\n\nSteven Jensen criticized accounts trying to justify the Phoenix case as based upon an incoherent account of intention. He did not believe the principle of double effect applied, saying the doctors intended to kill via dilation and curettage. \"This cutting is a kind of violent harm to the baby. The harm is not distinct from the cutting but is precisely that cutting insofar as it relates to the baby...This cutting is a cause that the doctor must include within the means he chooses\" (\"A Critique of Tollefsen on the Phoenix Case,\" The National Catholic Bioethics Quarterly, Summer 2014, 293).\n\n"}
{"id": "8033023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8033023", "title": "Functional chewing gum", "text": "Functional chewing gum\n\nFunctional chewing gum is the name given to types of chewing gum which impart some practical function instead of, or in addition to, the usual enjoyment provided by a traditional chewing gum as a confectionery product. Examples of this include nicotine gum which is used to aid smoking cessation & so-called Think Gum which designers say they believe may enhance mental functioning. It could be argued that most gum (at least the mint varieties) provides some function in that they can improve bad breath, but such an effect is so widespread that the term 'functional' is almost always applied to gum with some additional function. Medical uses for 'functional chewing gum' include a reported reduction in the duration of post-operative ileus following abdominal and specifically gastrointestinal surgery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42464949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42464949", "title": "Gordon syndrome", "text": "Gordon syndrome\n\nGordon syndrome (GS), or distal arthrogryposis type 3, is a rare, autosomal dominant disorder characterized by cleft palate and congenital contractures of the hands and feet.\n\nGordon syndrome is an extremely rare disorder that belongs to a group of genetic disorders known as the distal arthrogryposes. These disorders typically involve stiffness and impaired mobility of certain joints of the lower arms and legs (distal extremities) including the knees, elbows, wrists, and/or ankles. These joints tend to be permanently fixed in a bent or flexed position (contractures). Gordon syndrome is characterized by the permanent fixation of several fingers in a flexed position (camptodactyly), abnormal bending inward of the foot (clubfoot or talipes), and, less frequently, incomplete closure of the roof of the mouth (cleft palate). In some cases, additional abnormalities may also be present. The range and severity of symptoms may vary from case to case. Gordon syndrome is inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.\n\nWhile some reports suggest Gordon syndrome may be inherited in an X-linked dominant manner, most agree that it is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner with reduced expressivity and incomplete penetrance in females.\n\nIn autosomal dominant inheritance, having only one mutated copy of the disease-causing gene in each cell is sufficient to cause signs and symptoms of the condition. When an individual with an autosomal dominant condition has children, each child has a 50% (1 in 2) risk to inherit the mutated copy of the gene.\n\nIf a condition shows variable or reduced expressivity, it means that there can be a range in the nature and severity of signs and symptoms among affected individuals. Incomplete penetrance means that a portion of the individuals who carry the mutated copy of the disease-causing gene will not have any features of the condition.\n"}
{"id": "1763869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1763869", "title": "Javier Lozano Barragán", "text": "Javier Lozano Barragán\n\nJavier Lozano Barragán (born 26 January 1933) is a Mexican Cardinal and president Emeritus of the Pontifical Council for the Pastoral Care of Health Care Workers in the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nBorn in Toluca, State of México, Lozano Barragán trained as a priest in Zamora, Michoacán, and at the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome, where he earned a doctorate in theology and was ordained in 1955.\n\nIn 1979, Lozano Barragán was appointed auxiliary Bishop of Mexico City, then Bishop of Zacatecas in 1984. He went to the Vatican in 1996 as President of the Pontifical Council for the Pastoral Care of Health Care Workers, and was named Archbishop ad personam.\n\nBishop Lozano Barragán was elevated to Cardinal-Deacon of \"San Michele Arcangelo\" by Pope John Paul II on 21 October 2003.\n\nLozano Barragán was one of the cardinal electors who participated in the 2005 papal conclave that selected Pope Benedict XVI.\n\nOn 18 April 2009, Pope Benedict accepted the resignation of Cardinal Lozano Barragán for reasons of age and appointed Zygmunt Zimowski to the post.\n\nHaving served 10 years as a cardinal-deacon, he was promoted to Cardinal Priest of Santa Dorotea by Pope Francis on 12 June 2014.\n\nCardinal Barragán has expressed strong opposition to abortion, especially with regards to the RU-486 pill, which has abortive effects on the conceptus.\n\nCardinal Lozano Barragán was among the first to promote the canonization of Pope John Paul II after his death in April 2005, claiming that the 1990 recovery of a boy with terminal leukemia, whom the Pope blessed, is a miracle attributable to John Paul.\n\nIn 2006 it was reported that Cardinal Lozano Barragán was preparing a report for Pope Benedict which might state that using condoms is the lesser of two evils when one of the people is infected with AIDS However, the story was later downplayed when the cardinal declared that he did not have the authority to give definitive doctrinal directives. Moreover, in 2009, Pope Benedict XVI argued that the spread of AIDS \"cannot be overcome by the distribution of prophylactics: on the contrary, they increase it.\" \n\nCardinal Lozano Barragán has publicly intervened in high-profile euthanasia cases, notably with Terri Schiavo and Eluana Englaro, which he unabashedly described as murders.\n\nIn December 2009 a website published a statement by Cardinal Lozano Barragán in which he said that, while the Church regarded homosexuality as an insult to God, this did not justify discrimination against gay and transsexual people. The cardinal quoted Saint Paul's Letter to the Romans as indicating that homosexuals and transsexuals will never enter the kingdom of heaven. He later clarified that this did not mean that no individual homosexual can be saved, since existence of grave fault requires not only grave matter but also full knowledge and consent, and since being homosexual is often due not to personal fault but to education and environment. Saying that people are not born homosexual, he attributed homosexuality to reasons such as education and failure to develop one's identity during adolescence.\n\nHoly See Press Office spokesman Fr Federico Lombardi, S.J. said the website should not be considered an authority on Catholic thinking \"on complex and delicate issues such as homosexuality\". For the teaching of the Catholic Church on the matter, Lombardi referred to the Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2357–2359, which states that, while \"homosexual acts are intrinsically disordered\", those who have homosexual tendencies \"must be accepted with respect, compassion and sensitivity\" and \"every sign of unjust discrimination in their regard should be avoided\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21917258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21917258", "title": "Lago della Busalletta", "text": "Lago della Busalletta\n\nLago della Busalletta is an artificial lake in northwest Italy which straddles the provinces of Genoa (in Liguria) and Alessandria (in Piedmont), near the towns of Fraconalto and Busalla. At an elevation of 441, its surface area is 0.3 km².\n"}
{"id": "4509477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4509477", "title": "List of medical schools in the United States", "text": "List of medical schools in the United States\n\nThis list of medical schools in the United States includes major academic institutions that award either the Doctor of Medicine (MD) or Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (DO) degrees, either of which is required to become a physician or a surgeon in the United States. MD-granting medical schools are accredited by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education, while DO-granting medical schools are accredited by the American Osteopathic Association Commission on Osteopathic College Accreditation. There are currently 141 accredited MD-granting institutions and 34 accredited DO-granting institutions in the United States. Alaska, Delaware, Montana, and Wyoming lack medical schools (Wyoming, Alaska, Montana, and Idaho participate in a regional campus model with the University of Washington School of Medicine known as WWAMI Medical Education which allows 4 years of medical school to occur in each state). Regional campus models have allowed smaller states to gain access to clinical experiences at larger hospitals that their states lack. Additionally, the regional campus model allows medical students to gain valuable rural experiences which are often lacking with medical schools situated in larger metropolitan areas.\n\nThese medical schools are still in the process of undergoing accreditation and are not yet accepting student applications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29462590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29462590", "title": "Mechanobiology", "text": "Mechanobiology\n\nMechanobiology is an emerging field of science at the interface of biology and engineering that focuses on how physical forces and changes in the mechanical properties of cells and tissues contribute to development, cell differentiation, physiology, and disease. A major challenge in the field is understanding mechanotransduction—the molecular mechanisms by which cells sense and respond to mechanical signals.\nWhile medicine has typically looked for the genetic and biochemical basis of disease, advances in mechanobiology suggest that changes in cell mechanics, extracellular matrix structure, or mechanotransduction may contribute to the development of many diseases, including atherosclerosis, fibrosis, asthma, osteoporosis, heart failure, and cancer. There is also a strong mechanical basis for many generalized medical disabilities, such as lower back pain, foot and postural injury, deformity, and irritable bowel syndrome.\n\nThe effectiveness of many of the mechanical therapies already in clinical use shows how important physical forces can be in physiological control. For example, pulmonary surfactant promotes lung development in premature infants; modifying the tidal volumes of mechanical ventilators reduces morbidity and death in patients with acute lung injury; expandable stents physically prevent coronary artery constriction; tissue expanders increase the skin area available for reconstructive surgery; and surgical tension application devices are used for bone fracture healing, orthodontics, cosmetic breast expansion and closure of non-healing wounds. \n\nInsights into the mechanical basis of tissue regulation may also lead to development of improved medical devices, biomaterials, and engineered tissues for tissue repair and reconstruction.\n\nStretch-activated ion channels, caveolae, integrins, cadherins, growth factor receptors, myosin motors, cytoskeletal filaments, nuclei, extracellular matrix, and numerous other molecular structures and signaling molecules have been shown to contribute to cellular mechanotransduction. In addition, endogenous cell-generated traction forces contribute significantly to these responses by modulating tensional prestress within cells, tissues, and organs that govern their mechanical stability, as well as mechanical signal transmission from the macroscale to the nanoscale.\n\nIt is claimed all cells are mechanosensitive. Collectively cells respond to perturbations to their local mechanical environment resulting in tissue-level observations. For example, at the tissue-level an artery will either thicken or thin in response to changes in blood pressure above or below the healthy levels. That is, in the case of increased blood pressure (Hypertension) individual arterial cells experience greater circumferential stress (or tension). In order to alleviate this tension, they produce growth factors, which in turn stimulates proliferation. The net result is increased arterial wall thickness but the stress levels in the artery are restored to the normal levels.\n\nUsing mankind as a macroscopic example, in closed chain function, ground reactive forces, a dynamic architecture and a dynamic equilibrium of forces around joint axes impact the posture to produce tissue stress. This tissue stress can be both beneficial or harmful. Since gravity, hard, unyielding ground surfaces and other factors such as activity level, body weight and health state impact each of us differently there is no one plan of care that will work for every individual. This results in a lifetime of adaptation of tissues via Wolff's and Davis' Laws of Bone and Soft Tissue respectively that can unless compensated and/or corrected lead to breakdown, injury and reduced quality of life on a case to case basis.\n\nAs a further example, the foot has an inherited functional shape which when used will remodel and adapt in predictable manners. Theoretically programs can be establishing for prevention, performance enhancement and quality of life upgrading in addition to the treatment of pathology and pain. These interventions, some day, will cause positive remodeling of bone and soft tissue that will extend and possibly improve the mechanobiological timeline of mankind.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11031478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11031478", "title": "Medivac (TV series)", "text": "Medivac (TV series)\n\nMedivac, an Australian television drama series, ran on Network Ten from 1996 to 1998. There were 48 episodes produced. \"Medivac\" is an abbreviation of the term \"medical evacuation\". The series was also known as Adrenaline Junkies overseas.\n\nMedivac was set in the emergency department of Brisbane's fictional Bethlehem West Hospital, where a dedicated medical team work in the demanding world of emergency medicine. The team specialises in the evacuation of disaster areas, journeying by helicopter to remote areas inaccessible by ambulance. They also work in the city streets and the suburbs involving themselves with the patients, their families and the police.\n\n\nThe former Australian Taxation Office building, at the corner of Wharf and Adelaide Streets in Brisbane, was used as the location of the hospital.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52703647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52703647", "title": "Military chocolate (Switzerland)", "text": "Military chocolate (Switzerland)\n\nMilitary chocolate (; ; ; ) is a food component of the Swiss Armed Forces.\n\nThe military chocolate had the official designation \"emergency rations\" (Notportion or ration de secours or razione di soccorso or raziun da reserva) in the Swiss army. It was black dark chocolate packed in two white cardboard boxes, which were covered with a transparent plastic film. They were about the size of a cigarette box. The two cardboard boxes were connected but could easily be separated by a perforation. This military chocolate was produced by several companies, e.g. from Villars-Maitre-Chocolatier or Chocolat Stella.\nFor decades the military chocolate has been part of the basic rations for Swiss soldiers. In addition to the Military Biscuit, it is popular for schoolchildren who receive them from soldiers. The military chocolate thus achieved a certain cult status.\n\nIn the course of time, a chocolate board of 50 g was introduced into a red paper package and a milk chocolate bar of 50 g in red plastic packaging. This was more popular than the emergency portions, but not available in the same quantity.\nThis led to the rumor that this chocolate was only for officers. This gave rise to the unofficial designation \"officer chocolate\".\nThe \"Offiziersschokolade\" has now replaced the emergency ration. The emergency rations are no longer part of the official military rations. As of May 1, 2005, Stella's earlier black chocolate was taken out of service. The manufacturer in Ticino, however, continues to produce them in the original recipe and sells them to civilian customers.\nCurrent military chocolate also contains Rice Krispies or corn flakes. In addition to the chocolate bars, the military chocolate is available for promotion purposes in the form of a napolitain of 5 g. The Swiss army obtains their military chocolate from various manufacturers, which are UTZ Certified, among others from the Chocolat Stella or the Chocolat Frey.\n\nSince 2013 the protection of the brand \"Swiss Army\" is to be enforced on behalf of Parliament. In April 2016 the Handelsgericht Bern prohibited a chocolate manufacturer from using the brand name \"Swiss Army\" without a corresponding license.\n\nNutritional values for 100g\n\nIngredients\n\n\n"}
{"id": "154327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=154327", "title": "Milton H. Erickson", "text": "Milton H. Erickson\n\nMilton Hyland Erickson (5 December 1901 – 25 March 1980) was an American psychiatrist and psychologist specializing in medical hypnosis and family therapy. He was founding president of the American Society for Clinical Hypnosis and a fellow of the American Psychiatric Association, the American Psychological Association, and the American Psychopathological Association. He is noted for his approach to the unconscious mind as creative and solution-generating. He is also noted for influencing brief therapy, strategic family therapy, family systems therapy, solution focused brief therapy, and neuro-linguistic programming.\n\nErickson was largely self-taught, and his biography was noted down by Sidney Rosen in the book \"My Voice Will Go With You\". Erickson identified many of his earliest personal experiences as hypnotic or autohypnotic.\n\nErickson grew up in Lowell, Wisconsin, in a modest farming family and intended to become a farmer like his father. He was a late developer and was both dyslexic and color blind. He overcame his dyslexia and had many other inspirations via a series of spontaneous autohypnotic \"flashes of light\" or \"creative moments\", as described in the paper \"Autohypnotic Experiences of Milton H. Erickson\".\n\nAt age 17, he contracted polio and was so severely paralysed that the doctors believed he would die.\n\nHe began to recall \"body memories\" of the muscular activity of his own body. By concentrating on th.eIn his account, by memories, he slowmusclegan to regain control of parts of his body to the point where he was eventually able to talk and use his arms. Still unable to walk, he decided to train his body further by embarking - alone - on a thousand-mile canoe trip with only a few dollars. After this grueling trip, he was able to walk with a cane. This experience may have contributed to Erickson's technique of using \"ordeals\" in a therapeutic context (see below).\n\nErickson was an avid medical student, and he was so curious about, and engaged with, psychiatry that he obtained a psychology degree while he was still studying medicine.\n\nMuch later, in his fifties, he developed post-polio syndrome, characterized by pain and muscle weakness caused by the chronic over-use of partially paralyzed muscles. The condition left him even more severely paralyzed, but, having been through the experience once before, he now had a strategy for recovering some use of his muscles which he employed again. After this second recovery, he was obliged to use a wheelchair and suffered chronic pain. \n\nIn the early 1950s, anthropologist/cyberneticist Gregory Bateson involved Erickson as a consultant as part of his extensive research on communication. The two had met earlier, after Bateson and Margaret Mead had called upon him to analyse the films Mead had made of trance states in Bali. Through Bateson, Erickson met Jay Haley, Richard Bandler and John Grinder, amongst others, and had a profound influence on them all. They went on to write several books about him.\n\nIn 1973, Jay Haley published \"Uncommon Therapy\", which for the first time brought Erickson and his approaches to the attention of those outside the clinical hypnosis community. Erickson's fame and reputation spread rapidly, and so many people wished to meet him that he began holding teaching seminars, which continued until his death.\n\nMilton H. Erickson died in March 1980, aged 78, leaving four sons, four daughters, and a lasting legacy to the worlds of psychology, psychiatry, psychotherapy, hypnotherapy, pedagogics and communications.\n\nErickson is noted for his often unconventional approach to psychotherapy, as described in the book \"Uncommon Therapy\" by Jay Haley and the book \"Hypnotherapy: An Exploratory Casebook,\" by Milton H. Erickson and Ernest L. Rossi (1979, New York: Irvington Publishers, Inc.). He developed an extensive use of therapeutic metaphor and story as well as hypnosis and coined the term \"brief therapy\" for his method of addressing therapeutic change in relatively few sessions.\n\nBeginning in the 1950s, Erickson's use of interventions influenced strategic therapy and family systems therapy of practitioners including Virginia Satir and Jay Haley. He was noted for his ability to \"utilize\" anything about a patient to help them change, including their beliefs, favorite words, cultural background, personal history, or even their neurotic habits.\n\nThrough conceptualizing the unconscious as highly separate from the conscious mind, with its own awareness, interests, responses, and learnings, he taught that the unconscious mind was creative, solution-generating, and often positive.\n\nHe was an important influence on neuro-linguistic programming (NLP), which was in part based upon his working methods.\n\nErickson believed that the unconscious mind was always listening and that, whether or not the patient was in trance, suggestions could be made which would have a hypnotic influence, as long as those suggestions found resonance at the unconscious level. The patient could be aware of this or could be completely oblivious that something was happening. Erickson would see if the patient would respond to one or another kind of indirect suggestion and allow the unconscious mind to participate actively in the therapeutic process. In this way, what seemed like a normal conversation might induce a hypnotic trance, or a therapeutic change in the subject. According to Weitzenhoffer, \"[Erickson's] conception of the \"unconscious\" is definitely not the one held by Freud.\"\n\nErickson was an irrepressible practical joker, and it was not uncommon for him to slip indirect suggestions into all kinds of situations, including in his own books, papers, lectures and seminars. For example, a student arrived at one of the five-day intensive seminars he held in his home office near the end of his life. When Erickson asked why she had come, she replied frankly: \"My teacher told me that I should come to see you before you died.\" Erickson smiled and said: \"You tell him that dying is the \"last\" thing I intend to do.\" The group laughed at the pun. Then Erickson said, with a twinkle in his eye, \"Do you want to know how to avoid dying? Always wake up every morning. And do you want to know how to ensure that you will wake up every morning?\", he continued, \"Drink lots of liquids before you go to sleep!\"\n\nErickson also believed that it was even appropriate for the therapist to go into trance.\n\nI go into trances so that I will be more sensitive to the intonations and inflections of my patients' speech. And to enable me to hear better, see better.\n\nErickson maintained that trance is a common, everyday occurrence. For example, when waiting for buses and trains, reading or listening, or even being involved in strenuous physical exercise, it's quite normal to become immersed in the activity and go into a trance state, removed from any other irrelevant stimuli. These states are so common and familiar that most people do not consciously recognise them as hypnotic phenomena.\n\nThe same situation is in evidence in everyday life, however, whenever attention is fixated with a question or an experience of the amazing, the unusual, or anything that holds a person's interest. At such moments people experience the common everyday trance; they tend to gaze off to the right or left, depending upon which cerebral hemisphere is most dominant (Baleen, 1969) and get that faraway or blank look. Their eyes may actually close, their bodies tend to become immobile (a form of catalepsy), certain reflexes (e.g., swallowing, respiration, etc.) may be suppressed, and they seem momentarily oblivious to their surroundings until they have completed their inner search on the unconscious level for the new idea, response, or frames of reference that will restabilize their general reality orientation. We hypothesize that in everyday life consciousness is in a continual state of flux between the general reality orientation and the momentary microdynamics of trance...\n\nBecause Erickson expected trance states to occur naturally and frequently, he was prepared to exploit them therapeutically, even when the patient was not present with him in the consulting room. He also discovered many techniques for increasing the likelihood that a trance state would occur. He developed both verbal and non-verbal techniques and pioneered the idea that the common experiences of wonderment, engrossment and confusion are, in fact, just kinds of trance.\n\nClearly, there are a great many kinds of trance. Many people are familiar with the idea of a \"deep\" trance, and earlier in his career Erickson was a pioneer in researching the unique and remarkable phenomena that are associated with that state, spending many hours at a time with individual test subjects, deepening the trance.\n\nThat a trance may be \"light\" or \"deep\" suggests a one-dimensional continuum of trance depth, but Erickson would often work with multiple trances in the same patient, for example, suggesting that the hypnotised patient behave \"as if awake\", thereby blurring the line between the hypnotic and awake state.\n\nErickson believed there are multiple states that may be utilized. This resonates with Charles Tart's idea (put forward in the book \"Waking Up\") that all states of consciousness are trances and that what we call \"normal\" waking consciousness is just a \"consensus trance\". NLP also makes central use of the idea of changing state, without it explicitly being a hypnotic phenomenon.\n\nWhere classical hypnosis is authoritative and direct and often encounters resistance in the subject, Erickson's approach is permissive, accommodating and indirect. For example, where a classical hypnotist might say \"You are going into a trance\", an Ericksonian hypnotist would be more likely to say \"you can \"comfortably learn\" how to go into a trance\". In this way, he provides an opportunity for the subject to accept the suggestions they are most comfortable with, at their own pace, and with an awareness of the benefits. The subject knows they are not being hustled and takes full ownership of, and participates in, their transformation. Because the induction takes place during the course of a normal conversation, Ericksonian hypnosis is often known as Covert or Conversational Hypnosis.\n\nErickson maintained that it was not possible consciously to instruct the unconscious mind, and that authoritarian suggestions were likely to be met with resistance. The unconscious mind responds to openings, opportunities, metaphors, symbols, and contradictions. Effective hypnotic suggestion, then, should be \"artfully vague\", leaving space for the subject to fill in the gaps with their own unconscious understandings - even if they do not consciously grasp what is happening. The skilled hypnotherapist constructs these gaps of meaning in a way most suited to the individual subject - in a way which is most likely to produce the desired change.\n\nFor example, the authoritative \"You will stop smoking\" is likely to find less leverage on the unconscious level than \"You can become a non-smoker\". The first is a direct command, to be obeyed or ignored (and notice that it draws attention to the act of smoking); the second is an opening, an invitation to possible lasting change, without pressure, and is less likely to raise resistance.\n\nRichard Bandler and John Grinder identified this kind of \"artful vagueness\" as a central characteristic of their 'Milton Model', a systematic attempt to codify Erickson's hypnotic language patterns.\n\nIn all my techniques, almost all, there is a confusion.\n\nA confused person has their conscious mind busy and occupied, and is very much inclined to draw upon unconscious learnings to make sense of things. A confused person is in a trance of their own making - and therefore goes readily into that trance without resistance. Confusion might be created by ambiguous words, complex or endless sentences, pattern interruption or a myriad of other techniques to incite transderivational searches.\n\nScottish surgeon James Braid, who coined the term \"hypnotism\", claimed that focused attention was essential for creating hypnotic trances; indeed, his thesis was that hypnosis was in essence a state of extreme focus. But it can be difficult for people racked by pain, fear or suspicion to focus on anything at all. Thus other techniques for inducing trance become important, or as Erickson explained:\n\n... long and frequent use of the confusion technique has many times effected exceedingly rapid hypnotic inductions under unfavourable conditions such as acute pain of terminal malignant disease and in persons interested but hostile, aggressive, and resistant...\n\nAmong Erickson's best-known innovations is the hypnotic handshake induction, which is a type of confusion technique. The induction is done by the hypnotist going to shake hands with the subject, then interrupting the flow of the handshake in some way, such as by grabbing the subject's wrist instead. If the handshake continues to develop in a way which is out-of-keeping with expectations, a simple, non-verbal trance is created, which may then be reinforced or utilized by the hypnotist. All these responses happen naturally and automatically without telling the subject to consciously focus on an idea.\n\nRichard Bandler told people that Erickson had taught him this handshake technique. However, it is clear that Bandler embedded some parts in it that were, in fact, impossible for Erickson such as \"gradually lessening the pressure with his right hand\", which of course was impossible for Erickson since he was almost completely paralysed in his right hand. Bandler talks about this in one of his videos Creating Therapeutic Change.\n\nThis induction works because shaking hands is one of the actions learned and operated as a single \"chunk\" of behavior; tying shoelaces is another classic example. If the behavior is diverted or frozen midway, the person literally has no mental space for this - he is stopped in the middle of unconsciously executing a behavior that hasn't got a \"middle\". The mind responds by suspending itself in trance until either something happens to give a new direction, or it \"snaps out\". A skilled hypnotist can often use that momentary confusion and suspension of normal processes to induce trance quickly and easily.\n\nThe various descriptions of Erickson's hypnotic handshake, including his own very detailed accounts, indicate that a certain amount of improvisation is involved, and that watching and acting upon the subject's responses is the key to a successful outcome.\n\nErickson described the routine as follows:\n\nRichard Bandler was a keen proponent of the handshake induction, and developed his own variant, which is commonly taught in NLP workshops.\n\nAny habitual pattern which is interrupted unexpectedly will cause sudden and light trance. The handshake is a particularly good pattern to interrupt because the formality of a handshake is a widely understood set of social rules. Since everyone knows that it would be impolite to comment on the quality of a handshake, regardless of how strange it may be, the subject is obliged to embark on an inner search (known as a transderivational search, a universal and compelling type of trance) to identify the meaning or purpose of the subverted pattern.\n\nErickson recognised that many people were intimidated by hypnosis and the therapeutic process, and took care to respect the special resistances of the individual patient. In the therapeutic process he said that \"you always give the patient every opportunity to resist\". Here are some more relevant quotes pertaining to resistance:\n\nIf the patient can be led to accept one suggestion, they will more readily accept others. With resistant patients, it becomes necessary to find a suggestion that they can accept. Resistance is always important, and should always be respected, so if the resistance itself is encouraged, the patient is made to feel more comfortable, because they know that they are allowed to respond however they wish.\n\nAlthough the idea of working with resistance is essentially a hypnotic one, it goes beyond hypnosis and trance. In a typical example, a girl that bit her nails was told that she was cheating herself of really enjoying the nail biting. He encouraged her to let \"some\" of her nails grow a little longer before biting them, so that she really could derive the fullest pleasure from the activity. She decided to grow \"all\" of her nails long enough that she might really enjoy biting them, and then, after some days, she realised that she didn't want to bite them anyway.\n\nErickson is most famous as a hypnotherapist, but his extensive research into and experience with hypnosis led him to develop an effective therapeutic technique. Many of these techniques are not explicitly hypnotic, but they are extensions of hypnotic strategies and language patterns. Erickson recognised that resistance to trance resembles resistance to change, and developed his therapeutic approach with that awareness.\n\nHaley identified several strategies, which appeared repeatedly in Erickson's therapeutic approach.\n\n\nI usually say, \"There are a number of things that you don't want me to know about, that you don't want to tell me. There are a lot of things about yourself that you don't want to discuss, therefore let's discuss those that you are willing to discuss.\" She has blanket permission to withhold anything and everything. But she did come to discuss things. And therefore she starts discussing this, discussing that. And it's always \"Well, this is all right to talk about.\" And before she's finished, she has mentioned everything. And each new item - \"Well, this really isn't so important that I have to withhold it. I can use the withholding permission for more important matters.\" Simply a hypnotic technique. To make them respond to the idea of withholding, and to respond to the idea of communicating.\n\nSome people might react to a direction by thinking \"why should I?\" or \"You can't make me\", called a \"polarity response\" because it motivates the subject to consider the polar opposite of the suggestion. The conscious mind recognizes negation in speech (\"Don't do X\") but according to Erickson, the unconscious mind pays more attention to the \"X\" than the injunction \"Don't do\". Erickson thus used this as the basis for suggestions that deliberately played on negation and tonally marked the important wording, to provide that whatever the client did, it was beneficial: \"You don't have to \"go into a trance\", so you can \"easily wonder\" about what you notice no faster than \"you feel ready\" to become aware that \"your hand is slowly rising\"...\"\n\n\nMy first well-remembered intentional use of the double bind occurred in early boyhood. One winter day, with the weather below zero, my father led a calf out of the barn to the water trough. After the calf had satisfied its thirst, they turned back to the barn, but at the doorway the calf stubbornly braced its feet, and despite my father's desperate pulling on the halter, he could not budge the animal. I was outside playing in the snow and, observing the impasse, began laughing heartily. My father challenged me to pull the calf into the barn. Recognizing the situation as one of unreasoning stubborn resistance on the part of the calf, I decided to let the calf have full opportunity to resist, since that was what it apparently wished to do. Accordingly I presented the calf with a double bind by seizing it by the tail and pulling it away from the barn, while my father continued to pull it inward. The calf promptly chose to resist the weaker of the two forces and dragged me into the barn.\n\n\nI was returning from high school one day and a runaway horse with a bridle on sped past a group of us into a farmer's yard looking for a drink of water. The horse was perspiring heavily. And the farmer didn't recognize it so we cornered it. I hopped on the horse's back. Since it had a bridle on, I took hold of the tick rein and said, \"Giddy-up.\" Headed for the highway, I knew the horse would turn in the right direction. \"I\" didn't know what the right direction was. And the horse trotted and galloped along. Now and then he would forget he was on the highway and start into a field. So I would pull on him a bit and call his attention to the fact the highway was where he was supposed to be. And finally, about four miles from where I had boarded him, he turned into a farm yard and the farmer said, \"So that's how that critter came back. Where did you find him?\" I said, \"About four miles from here.\" \"How did you know you should come here?\" I said, \"I didn't know. The horse knew. All I did was keep his attention on the road.\"\n\nErickson's metaphorical strategies can be compared with the teaching tales of the Sufis (those of for example the Nasreddin) and the Zen tradition of Koans, each also designed to act on the unconscious mind.\n\n\nCompare this with \"Prescribing the Symptom\" (below).\n\n\nIf I send someone out of the room - for example, the mother and child - I carefully move father from his chair and put him into mother's chair. Or if I send the child out, I might put mother in the child's chair, at least temporarily. Sometimes I comment on this by saying, 'As you sit where your son was sitting, you can think more clearly about him.' Or, 'If you sit where your husband sat, maybe it will give you somewhat of his view about me'. Over a series of interviews with an entire family, I shuffle them about, so that what was originally mother's chair is now where father is sitting. The family grouping remains, and yet that family grouping is being rearranged, which is what you are after when changing a family.\"\n\nThis may be directly compared with Fritz Perls' use of an \"empty chair\" as a context for imagined interactions (where the client was often invited to occupy the chair and thus take on the role of the person imagined to be sitting there); Bert Hellinger's approach, which requires the client to arrange family members (played by volunteers) in a row or pattern which matches the client's internal understanding, and then to reorganise the row; and Virginia Satir's work with tableaux and posture.\n\n\nErickson would often compliment the patient for a symptom, and would even encourage it, in very specific ways. In one amusing example, a woman whose in-laws caused her nauseous feelings in the gut every time they visited unexpectedly was \"taught\" to vomit spectacularly whenever the visits were especially inconvenient. Naturally the in-laws would always sympathetically help her clean up the vomit. Fairly soon, the annoying relatives started calling in advance before turning up, to see if she were \"well enough\" to see them.\n\nThe subject of dozens of songs, \"emphasizing the positive\" is a well known self-help strategy, and can be compared with \"positive reformulation\" in Gestalt Therapy.\n\nINTERVIEWER: Suppose someone called you and said there was a kid, nineteen or twenty years old, who has been a very good boy, but all of a sudden this week he started walking around the neighborhood carrying a large cross. The neighbors are upset and the family's upset, and would you do something about it. How would you think about that as a problem? Some kind of bizarre behavior like that.<br>\nERICKSON: Well, if the kid came in to see me, the first thing I would do would be to want to examine the cross. And I would want to improve it in a very minor way. As soon as I got the slightest minor change in it, the way would be open for a larger change. And pretty soon I could deal with the advantages of a different cross - he ought to have at least two. He ought to have at least three so he could make a choice each day of which one. It's pretty hard to express a psychotic pattern of behavior over an ever-increasing number of crosses.\n\nINTERVIEWER: You don't feel that exploring the past is particularly relevant? I'm always trying to get clear in my mind how much of the past I need to consider when doing brief therapy.<br>\nERICKSON: You know, I had one patient this last July who had four or five years of psychoanalysis and got nowhere with it. And someone who knows her said, \"How much attention did you give to the past?\" I said, \"You know, I completely forgot about that.\" That patient is, I think, a reasonably cured person. It was a severe washing compulsion, as much as twenty hours a day. I didn't go in to the cause or the etiology; the only searching question I asked was \"When you get in the shower to scrub yourself for hours, tell me, do you start at the top of your head, or the soles of your feet, or in the middle? Do you wash from the neck down, or do you start with your feet and wash up? Or do you start with your head and wash down?\"<br>\nINTERVIEWER: Why did you ask that?<br>\nERICKSON: So that she knew I was really interested.<br>\nINTERVIEWER: So that you could join her in this?<br>\nERICKSON: No, so that she knew I was \"really interested\".\n\nErickson is famous for pioneering indirect techniques, but his shock therapy tends to get less attention. Erickson was prepared to use psychological shocks and ordeals in order to achieve given results:\n\nWhen the old gentleman asked if he could be helped for his fear of riding in an elevator, I told him I could probably scare the pants off him in another direction. He told me that nothing could be worse than his fear of an elevator.<br>\nThe elevators in that particular building were operated by young girls, and I made special arrangements with one in advance. She agreed to cooperate and thought it would be fun. I went with the gentleman to the elevator. He wasn't afraid of walking into an elevator, but when it started to move it became an unbearable experience. So I chose an unbusy time and I had him walk in and out of the elevator, back in and out. Then at a point when we walked in, I told the girl to close the door and said, \"Let's go up.\"<br>\nShe went up one story and stopped in between floors. The gentleman started to yell, \"What's wrong!\" I said, \"The elevator operator wants to kiss you.\" Shocked, the gentleman said, \"But I'm a married man!\" The girl said, \"I don't mind that.\" She walked toward him, and he stepped back and said, \"You start the elevator.\" So she started it. She went up to about the fourth floor and stopped it again between floors. She said, \"I just have a craving for a kiss.\" He said, \"You go about your business.\" He wanted that elevator moving, not standing still. She replied, \"Well, let's go down and start all over again,\" and she began to take the elevator down. He said, \"Not down, up!\" since he didn't want to go through \"that\" all over again.<br>\nShe started up and then stopped the elevator between floors and said, \"Do you promise you'll ride down in my elevator with me when you're through work?\" He said, \"I'll promise anything if you promise not to kiss me.\" He went up in the elevator, relieved and without fear - of the elevator - and could ride one from then on.\n\nErickson's work on hypnotism was controversial during his lifetime and has remained so to the present day. Some of his central presuppositions have been questioned by other researchers and the opaque nature of his explanations has led to a variety of competing interpretations of his approach.\n\nA friend and colleague of Erickson, the hypnosis researcher André Weitzenhoffer, a prolific and well-respected author in the field of hypnosis himself, has extensively criticised the ideas and influence of Erickson in various writings, such as his textbook \"The Practice of Hypnotism\". Weitzenhoffer displays a clear, and explicitly stated, bias against Ericksonian Hypnosis in his book, in favor of what he terms the semi-traditional, scientific, approach.\n\nThe author Jeffrey Masson dedicated a whole sub-section of his book Against Therapy to criticism of Milton Erickson. Masson questions the accuracy of Erickson's case reports. Regarding Erickson's report of a female patient who was allegedly hypnotised to have spontaneous orgasms throughout the day, Masson writes, \"The whole thing is tinged with fantasy and has a feeling of unreality about it.\" \n\nMasson was particularly concerned by Erickson's own reports of cases in which he acted in a manner he felt might be construed as sexually inappropriate. He even goes so far as to suggest that Erickson may have obtained \"sexual pleasure\" from cases like the following, where he reports asking a young female client to gradually strip naked in his office, allegedly as a psychotherapeutic exercise. It is to note, however, that Mrs Erickson was present in the room. Furthermore, Erickson presents the case as illustrating the power of shock therapy against inhibitions and rigidities of character, claiming his technique has freed the patient from her incapacity to marry her fiancé.\n\n\"Now you need to know how to undress and go to bed in the presence of a man. So start undressing.\" Slowly, in an almost automatic fashion, she undressed. I had her show me her right breast, her left breast, her right nipple, her left nipple. Her belly button. Her genital area. Her knees. Her gluteal [buttock] regions. I asked her to point where she would like to have her husband kiss her. I had her turn around [naked]. I had her dress slowly. She dressed. I dismissed her.\n\nMasson also notes that Erickson, as a psychiatrist in the Arizona State Hospital, was an enthusiastic advocate of the use of restraints, a subject which he delivered a well-attended talk on, and frequently had patients confined by straitjackets. Masson cites various instances of Erickson's behaviour toward psychiatric patients which he considers \"cruel, crude jokes\". Referring to Erickson's authoritarian approach as \"prison-camp therapy\" and \"therapist-as-boss\", Masson concludes, \"It is not surprising that Erickson succumbed to the opportunity to abuse his patients, as the examples quoted make clear.\"\n\nSelf-professed \"skeptical hypnotist\" Alex Tsander cited Masson's concerns in his 2005 book \"Beyond Erickson: A Fresh Look at \"The Emperor of Hypnosis\"\", the title of which alludes to Charcot's characterisation in the previous century as \"The Emperor of the Neuroses\". Tsander re-evaluates a swathe of Erickson's accounts of his therapeutic approaches and lecture demonstrations in the context of scientific literature on hypnotism and his own experience in giving live demonstrations of hypnotic technique. Emphasising social-psychological perspectives, Tsander introduces an \"interpretive filter\" with which he re-evaluates Erickson's own accounts of his demonstrations and introduces prosaic explanations for occurrences that both Erickson and other authors tend to portray as remarkable.\n\nErickson's friend, and sometime collaborator, Andre Weitzenhoffer, a well-known hypnosis researcher himself, has repeatedly raised concerns over the nature of Erickson's legacy.\n\nThe majority of today's Ericksonians consist of individuals who have never known Erickson, even less been directly trained by him. Today, and for some time now, much of the teaching of the Ericksonian approach is and has been done by individuals who have acquired their knowledge second and third hand. [...] Some of those who did spend time with Erickson, like Jeffrey Zeig, Ernest Rossi, and William O'Hanlon have tried, I believe, to present and preserve as much as they could what they believed and have understood Erickson's thought and methods to be. They have succeeded to do so to a fair degree. Others, like Richard Bandler and John Grinder have on the other hand, offered a much adulterated, and at times fanciful, version of what they perceived Erickson as saying and doing guided by their personal theorizing. [...] Further distortions have resulted outside of the United States due to translation problems as well as for other reasons. More and more the Ericksonians have become a heterogeneous group of practitioners.\nOne of his first students and developers of his work was Jay Haley. Other important followers include Stephen Gilligan, Jeffrey K. Zeig, Bill O'Hanlon, Michele Ritterman and Stephen R. Lankton.\n\nErickson was modeled (see Milton model) by Richard Bandler and John Grinder, the co-founders of Neuro-linguistic programming (NLP). As a result of the success of their research Erickson contributed the foreword to their book \"Patterns of the Hypnotic Techniques of Milton H. Erickson, M.D.\".\n\nIn the sphere of business coaching and training, he influenced the methods that behaviour training companies use in communicating with clients and training participants.\n\nTenshin Reb Anderson of the Zen tradition has referred to Erickson as a \"Magician/Healer.\" \n\nErickson was a prolific writer, often working in collaboration with others. His chief collaborator was Ernest L. Rossi.\n\nHis books include:\n\nHis clinical papers have been collected into a four volume work:\n\nSome books collecting transcriptions of his lectures and seminars:\n\n\"Conversations with Milton H. Erickson, M.D.\", edited by Jay Haley (WW Norton and Company: New York, 1999)\n\"Milton H. Erickson, M.D.: In His Own Voice\", edited by Jay Haley and co-edited by Madeleine Richeport (WW Norton & Company: New York, 1991).\nOther works which collect specific parts of Erickson's output:\n\nMany books have been written about Erickson and his techniques, which typically include extended citations from his papers, lectures and workshops, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "42542157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42542157", "title": "Murder of Stacey Mitchell", "text": "Murder of Stacey Mitchell\n\nStacey Mitchell (1990 – 18 December 2006) was a British-born girl living in Australia who was murdered at the age of 16, on 18 December 2006, by lesbian couple Jessica Stasinowsky (born 1985) and Valerie Parashumti (born 1987). She was bludgeoned with a concrete block and strangled with a chain. Her corpse was found in a wheelie bin shortly afterwards. Stasinowsky and Parashumti had known Mitchell for three days, and claimed they murdered her because they found her irritating.\n\nStacey Mitchell was born in Dorset, England, but emigrated to Australia at the age of 10. At the age of 16, she ran away from her family home and stayed with 19-year-old Parashumti and 21-year-old Stasinowsky. \n\nParashumti was accused by Stasinowsky of flirting with Mitchell. She planned to kill Mitchell to prove to Stasinowsky she was not attracted to her. The three of them spent the evening drinking whisky before Parashumti hit Mitchell over the back of the head with a concrete block. Stasinowsky then strangled her with a dog chain. As she lay dying, the two women kissed over her body and filmed her on a mobile phone. Earlier attempts to kill Mitchell by Stasinowsky included putting broken glass in her drink and spilling oil on the bathroom floor.\n\nThe two women were tried at the Perth Supreme Court. During the trial they \"smiled, giggled and whispered at each other\". Parashumti's lawyer stated that she had a severe personality disorder and had grown up with an abusive father. She had also had an obsession with the vampire sub-culture, and a penchant for drinking people's blood since the age of 10. Parashumti's father had previously been in prison for beating his wife. \n\nBoth women pleaded guilty, and revealed that after Mitchell's death, they had visited a hardware store to look for a chainsaw and some spades. In 2008, both women were sentenced to strict security life imprisonment, with a 24-year minimum term. Stasinowsky subsequently appealed her sentence. Her appeal was unanimously rejected by the WA Court of Appeal. David Ross John Haynes, who also lived with them, was sentenced to two years' imprisonment for being an accessory. Although he had been fully aware of the plan to kill Mitchell, he agreed to go to his bedroom and listen to music.\n\nIt was discovered in 2009 that the two women were continuing their relationship in prison, reportedly spending up to 90 minutes together on weekdays, and seven hours a day on weekends. Parashumti was consequently moved to a separate prison. They attempted to maintain contact by sending letters, using fellow inmate Catherine Birnie as a go-between. In 2012, three prison officers were injured, following their intervention in a fight involving Parashumti and another inmate. In 2013 Parashumti attempted to escape from prison, but failed to leave the grounds. It was reported she would consequently face a police charge.\n\nIn 2014, 20 charges against Stasinowsky, which pre-dated the murder, were dropped.\n"}
{"id": "44956999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44956999", "title": "Occupational cancer", "text": "Occupational cancer\n\nOccupational cancer is cancer caused by occupational hazards. Several cancers have been directly tied to occupational hazards, including chimney sweeps' carcinoma, mesothelioma, and others.\n\nOccupational exposure to chemicals, dusts, radiation, and certain industrial processes have been tied to occupational cancer. Exposure to cancer-causing chemicals, also called Carcinogens, may cause mutations that allow cells to grow out of control, causing cancer. Carcinogens in the workplace may include chemicals like anilines, chromates, dinitrotoluenes, arsenic and inorganic arsenic compounds, beryllium and beryllium compounds, cadmium compounds, and nickel compounds. Dusts that can cause cancer leather or wood dusts, asbestos, crystalline forms of silica, coal tar pitch volatiles, coke oven emissions, diesel exhaust and environmental tobacco smoke. sunlight; radon gas; and industrial, medical, or other exposure to ionizing radiation can all cause cancer in the workplace. Industrial processes associated with cancer include aluminum production; iron and steel founding; and underground mining with exposure to uranium or radon. Shift work, which can disturb the circadian rhythm, has also been identified as a risk factor for some forms of cancer, in particular for breast cancer. \n\nOther factors that play a role in cancer include:\n\nCommon cancers and their exposures and occupations include:\nAn estimated 48,000 cancers are diagnosed yearly in the US that come from occupational causes; this represents approximately 4-10% of total cancer in the United States. It is estimated that 19% of cancers globally are attributed to environmental exposures (including work-related exposures).\n\nMany occupational cancers are preventable. Personal protective gear, workplace controls, and worker education can prevent exposure to carcinogens in the workplace. Tobacco smoking has also been shown to increase the risk of work-related cancers; decreasing or abstaining from smoking can decrease cancer risk.\n\nAgencies like the US Food and Drug Administration, Environmental Protection Agency, the International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC) and Occupational Safety and Health Administration have developed safety standards and limits for chemical and radiation exposure.\n\n Westfall Paper’s \nCornell University Kheel Center for Labor-Management Documentation & Archives / New York\n\nCancer in Auto Town\nhttp://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1003&context=westfall\n\nCancer in Auto Factories\nhttp://digitalcommons.ilr.cornell.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1002&context=westfall\n"}
{"id": "46375641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46375641", "title": "On Immunity: An Inoculation", "text": "On Immunity: An Inoculation\n\nOn Immunity: An Inoculation is a nonfiction book by Eula Biss published by Graywolf Press in 2014. It is primarily about vaccination of children. Bill Gates endorsed it on Twitter, saying \"\"On Immunity\" is a great book that is not out to demonize anyone who holds opposing views.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3596219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3596219", "title": "Permanent Representative of the United Kingdom to the United Nations", "text": "Permanent Representative of the United Kingdom to the United Nations\n\nThe permanent representative of the United Kingdom to the United Nations is the United Kingdom's foremost diplomatic representative to the United Nations, and in charge of the \"United Kingdom Mission to the United Nations\" (UKMIS). UK permanent representatives to the UN hold the personal rank of ambassador. The full official title and style is: \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20067337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20067337", "title": "Personal practice model (social work)", "text": "Personal practice model (social work)\n\nA Personal practice model (PPM) is a social work tool for understanding and linking theories to each other and to the practical tasks of social work.\n\nMullen describes the PPM as “the art and science of social work”, or more prosaically, “an explicit conceptual scheme that expresses a worker's view of practice”. A worker should develop a PPM pragmatically over their entire career by reflecting on, and the absorption of, a variety of sources. They are an important basis for the delivery of good practice and the evaluation of such. Bowles, Collingridge, Curry and Valentine stress the importance of deriving the guidelines for good practice from a text such as the Australian Association of Social Workers Code of Ethics.\n\nAs the name implies, they are fundamentally personal and idiosyncratic, and to be effective, they must be rationally constructed, by a self-conscious worker. Fook identifies the need to maintain “a broader vision of the mission of social work” to transcend everyday workplace distractions.\n\nMullen proposes that a PPM should be constructed from both theory and research.\n\nHe first detailed the process for using research findings for PPM development in his 1978 publication He proposes a systematic process for reviewing research findings \"--- to facilitate individual student and practitioner use of research findings to construct personal working models of social intervention. The methodology is composed of five interrelated steps: (a) identification of substantive findings concerning intervention variables and their effects on clients; (b) identification of the quality and limitations of the evidence; (c) development of summary generalizations; (d) deduction of practice guidelines; and (e) specification of an evaluation plan to monitor the outcomes when practice guidelines are implemented with individual client systems. Social interventions are conceptualized as open systems whose effects on clients are a function of environmental, organizational, intervenor, technological, and focus components in interaction with client qualities. A systems framework serves the heuristic purpose of structuring the research utilization process.\" p. 45\n\nMullen presents a detailed description with examples of how theories can be used in PPM in his 1981 and 1988 publications\n\nMullen describes the dimensions and sub-dimension of a PPM, outlined below. A PPM should include all elements of social work theory, linking what Payne describes as the three tiers; models of practice, explanatory theory and world perspectives.\n\nThis requires a practitioner to have an understanding of the concept of social welfare, and the role of social work within this concept as well as any specialisations of social work.\n\nA practitioner needs to understand the missions and objectives of social work, as well as philosophies that underpin it.\n\nA PPM needs to explain how the model centres around clients, and conceptualisation of the clients that is in line with the philosophies of social work.\n\nThe use of self is fundamental to social work, and a practitioner needs to be self-conscious, and know what parts of themselves to use in practice, and which to leave out.\n\nThe relationship between client and practitioner is the most crucial workspace in social work, and the context that the relationship occurs is therefore a vital part of a PPM. A practitioner needs to consider which elements of a relationship are important, and which may be contrary to the notion of social work.\n\nThe strengths and shortfalls of an agency can greatly help or hamper the social work process, and a worker needs to be aware of these to maximise the agency's benefit to the client.\n\nThe technique a social worker uses is defined by all the preceding dimensions. The processes that a social worker uses needs to be consistent with the orienting theories that form their conception of social work.\n\nTo maintain a validity with a PPM, social workers need a systemic plan that takes into account the relevance and effectiveness of practice.\n\nPayne identified that an eclectic approach to theory has the benefits of increasing a workers effectiveness, but that this should not come at the expense of being “internally inconsistent or debas(ing) the full theory.” Mullen offers several criticisms of PPMs, that they are duplicative, time consuming and overly subjective. He offers responses to these three points, firstly in refuting the claim that they simply duplicate existing General Practice Models (GPM). A PPM allows for development and tweaking of GPMs, making them more relevant to individual practice. He concedes that they can be time consuming, but mostly in their inception, and that maintaining and developing them is much easier. As for the subjectivity of a PPM, workers need to be aware of this, and critically engaged with GPMs to bring esoteric theory and research into contact with everyday practice.\n"}
{"id": "986651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=986651", "title": "Repeatability", "text": "Repeatability\n\nRepeatability or test–retest reliability is the closeness of the agreement between the results of successive measurements of the same measurand carried \nout under the same conditions of measurement. In other words, the measurements are taken by a single person or instrument on the same item, under the same conditions, and in a short period of time. A less-than-perfect test–retest reliability causes test–retest variability. Such variability can be caused by, for example, intra-individual variability and intra-observer variability. A measurement may be said to be \"repeatable\" when this variation is smaller than a pre-determined acceptance criterion.\n\nTest–retest variability is practically used, for example, in medical monitoring of conditions. In these situations, there is often a predetermined \"critical difference\", and for differences in monitored values that are smaller than this critical difference, the possibility of pre-test variability as a sole cause of the difference may be considered in addition to, for examples, changes in diseases or treatments.\n\nThe following conditions need to be fulfilled in the establishment of repeatability: \n\nRepeatability methods were developed by Bland and Altman (1986).\n\nIf the correlation between separate administrations of the test is high (e.g. 0.7 or higher as in this Cronbach's alpha-internal consistency-table), then it has good test–retest reliability.\n\nThe repeatability coefficient is a precision measure which represents the value below which the absolute difference between two repeated test results may be expected to lie with a probability of 95%.\n\nThe standard deviation under repeatability conditions is part of precision and accuracy.\n\nAn attribute agreement analysis is designed to simultaneously evaluate the impact of repeatability and reproducibility on accuracy. It allows the analyst to examine the responses from multiple reviewers as they look at several scenarios multiple times. It produces statistics that evaluate the ability of the appraisers to agree with themselves (repeatability), with each other (reproducibility), and with a known master or correct value (overall accuracy) for each characteristic – over and over again.\n\nBecause the same test is administered twice and every test is parallel with itself, differences between scores on the test and scores on the retest should be due solely to measurement error. This sort of argument is quite probably true for many physical measurements. However, this argument is often inappropriate for psychological measurement, because it is often impossible to consider the second administration of a test a parallel measure to the first.\n\nThe second administration of a psychological test might yield systematically different scores than the first administration due to the following reasons:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6224065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6224065", "title": "Self-report inventory", "text": "Self-report inventory\n\nA self-report inventory is a type of psychological test in which a person fills out a survey or questionnaire with or without the help of an investigator. Self-report inventories often ask direct questions about personal interests, values, symptoms, behaviors, and traits or personality types. Inventories are different from tests in that there is no objectively correct answer; responses are based on opinions and subjective perceptions. Most self-report inventories are brief and can be taken or administered within five to 15 minutes, although some, such as the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI), can take several hours to fully complete. They are popular because they can be inexpensive to give and to score, and their scores can often show good reliability.\n\nThere are three major approaches to developing self-report inventories: theory-guided, factor analysis, and criterion-keyed. Theory-guided inventories are constructed around a theory of personality or a prototype of a construct. Factor analysis uses statistical methods to organize groups of related items into subscales. Criterion-keyed inventories include questions that have been shown to statistically discriminate between a comparison group and a criterion group, such as people with clinical diagnoses of depression versus a control group.\n\nItems could use any of several formats: a Likert scale with ranked options, true-false, or forced choice, although other formats such as sentence completion or visual analog scales are possible. True-false involves questions that the individual denotes as either being true or false about themselves. Forced-choice is a set of statements that require the individual to choose one as being most representative of themselves.\n\nIf the inventory includes items from different factors or constructs, the items can be mixed together or kept in groups. Sometimes the way people answer the item will change depending on the context offered by the neighboring items.\n\nSelf-report personality inventories \n\nHonesty of response may be the major problem with the self-report personality tests. Test questions are often transparent, and people can usually figure out how to respond to make themselves appear to possess whatever qualities they think the organization wants. In addition, people may falsify good responses, be biased towards their positive characteristics, or falsify bad, stressing negative characteristics, in order to obtain their preferred outcome.\n\nA variety of self-report inventories for assessing anger and aggression have been published.\n\nThe biggest problem with self-report inventories is that patients may exaggerate symptoms in order to make their situation seem worse, or they may under-report the severity or frequency of symptoms in order to minimize their problems. For this reason, self-report inventories are more often used primarily for measuring levels of traits, or for symptom severity and change. Inventories should not be used in isolation to diagnose a mental disorder. They should be verified by other assessment data. Clinical discretion is advised for all self-report inventories.\n\nAnother issue is the social desirability bias, which can cause over-reporting of socially desirable and under-reporting of socially undesirable behaviors.\n\nMany personality tests, such as the MMPI or the MBTI add questions that are designed to make it difficult for a person to exaggerate traits and symptoms. However, these tests suffer from the inherent problems associated with personality theory and testing, in that personality is a fluid concept that can be difficult to define.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3503883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3503883", "title": "Senior Citizens Party", "text": "Senior Citizens Party\n\nThe Senior Citizens Party was a political party in the United Kingdom from 2004-2014, which focused on the rights of people over the age of 50, senior citizens. They claimed a membership of several thousand.\n\nThe party was founded in January 2004 by Grahame Leon-Smith, formerly the party leader, and Terry Pattinson. They claim that they had previously been lifelong Conservative and Labour Party voters respectively, Leon-Smith serving as a councillor for 6 years, but had become disillusioned by the breaking of the link between pensions and average earnings by the Conservatives and Labour's failure to restore it. They also campaigned against council tax, proposing a local income tax, and campaign for free personal care for the elderly, free off-peak travel, and free television licenses.\n\nThe party won 42,861 votes in the South East in the European Parliament election, 2004 and stood candidates against Tony Blair and Michael Howard in the 2005 UK general election. Leon-Smith received 151 votes (0.3%) in Folkestone and Hythe, and Pattinson received 97 votes (0.2%) in Sedgefield. In the run up to the 2005 General Election the Senior Citizens Party had meetings discussing an electoral alliance with the English Democrats. In May 2006, Leon-Smith and Pattinson stood for the party in the Runnymede Borough Council election, receiving 261 votes between them.\n\nAccording to their Electoral Commission registration, the leader, nominating officer and treasurer was Leon-Smith, whilst Pattinston is Campaigns Officer. Their accounts filed for the years 2004 and 2007 indicate that they had \"approximately 4,000 members and associate members\". The annual membership fee was £12, but associate members do not pay anything. The ratio of full to associate members was not specified.\nThe Senior Citizens Party merged with UKIP in March 2014, as announced by Leon-Smith at the Ukip conference.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36409673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36409673", "title": "Singapore Cancer Society", "text": "Singapore Cancer Society\n\nThe Singapore Cancer Society (SCS), founded in 1964, is the largest cancer advocacy and support organisation in Singapore.\n\nEstablished in 1964, Singapore Cancer Society is a self-funded voluntary welfare organisation which is dedicated to minimising the impact of cancer in Singapore through the provision of cancer treatment subsidies, financial and welfare aid to needy cancer patients, home hospice care services for terminally-ill cancer patients, as well as rehabilitation support programmes for recovering cancer patients and cancer survivors . In addition, the Society also provides free cancer screening services and promotes cancer awareness and prevention through its public education and community outreach programmes. Annually, the SCS helps more than 1,000 needy cancer patients and reaches out to more than 50,000 individuals through its cancer screening, public educational and community outreach programmes.\n\nList of voluntary welfare organisations in Singapore\n"}
{"id": "48061429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48061429", "title": "Social Interaction Anxiety Scale", "text": "Social Interaction Anxiety Scale\n\nThe Social Interaction Anxiety Scale (SIAS) is a self-report scale that measures distress when meeting and talking with others that is widely used in clinical settings and among social anxiety researchers. The measure assesses social anxiety disorder, which is fear or anxiety about one or more social situations where the individual is subject to possible scrutiny.\n\nQuestions of the SIAS assess a clients' fear of interacting in social situations, gauge emotional aspects of the anxiety response, and do not refer to social apprehensiveness or concern about others' opinions in a general sense. Though related, social interaction anxiety is different from social phobia which is defined as anxiety surrounding fear of being scrutinized in a social situation.\n\nThe scale contains 20 items. The client rates how much each item relates to them on a 5-point scale as follows:\n\nThe point values of the chosen answer choices are then summed to produce a total measure score.\n\nSample items include \"I worry about not knowing what to say in social situations\" or \"I am tense mixing in a group\".\n\nThe SIAS measures social interaction anxiety, which refers to distress when meeting and talking with other people, whether they be friends, members of the opposite sex, or strangers. The main concerns include fears of being inarticulate, sounding boring, sounding stupid, not knowing what to say or how to respond, and being ignored. The scale specifically assesses anxiety experienced while interacting with others, not social phobia, which is more specifically fear of scrutiny when performing a task or being observed by others. The SIAS is similar to the Social Phobia Scale (SPS), a measure that mores specifically assesses social phobia. However, though the measure is not created to measure social phobia specifically, those with social phobia score high on the SIAS as social phobia and social interaction anxiety are related.\n\nThe measure is able to discriminate between a normal population and a population that experiences social interaction anxiety, giving it substantial clinical utility. It can be used in clinics as a self-report screening tool in order to see if clients possess any social interaction anxiety. The SIAS discriminates between social anxiety and general anxiety as it has low associations with trait anxiety (a level of stress associated with an individual personality) and general distress. Beyond identifying those who experience social anxiety of some form, the scale can discriminate within the social anxiety class as well. Patients with social phobia score higher on the SIAS than other patients with another anxiety disorder, such as generalized anxiety disorder, or no disorder. In addition, patients with panic disorder and agoraphobia score higher than patients with specific phobia.\n\nThe SIAS has a normal distribution of scores, with those that experience social interaction anxiety scoring high, supporting the view that the scale identifies general fear regarding social interactions.\n\nEvaluated through Cronbach's alpha, the SIAS demonstrates high levels of internal consistency, meaning that different items on the test are correlated. In addition, the scale has high test-retest reliability, as it continues to correctly identify social anxiety and phobia after a period of time has passed.\n\nThe scale has high discriminant validity; not only is it able to discriminate between those with social phobia and healthy volunteers, but also between several different types of social phobia and anxiety. The SIAS is significantly correlated with the Social Phobia Scale (SPS), consistent with the observation that social interaction fears and social phobia scrutiny fears co-exist, although they are still two different sets of symptoms. It is strongly related to other related measures of social anxiety and social phobia, including the Liebowitz Social Anxiety Scale (LSAS), Mini Social Phobia Inventory (mini-SPIN), Brief Fear of Negative Evaluation Scale (BFNE), the Fear of Positive Evaluation Scale (FPES), and the Interaction Anxiousness Scale. In addition, there are moderate to high correlations between the SIAS and other scales testing fear, depression, and locus of control, which are all related to social anxiety.\n\nIn addition, the SIAS responds to change and improvement in symptoms due to treatment.\n\nAlthough the SIAS is used widely in clinical psychology, it is not without its limitations. Because the scale is self-report subjects are able to falsify responses in order to be socially desirable. In addition, most items of the scale are scored in the same direction, allowing room for response bias. It is also difficult to discriminate between the fears of someone who experiences social anxiety and the more general worries of a patient with generalized anxiety disorder, as patients who suffer from both disorders score higher on the SIAS than those with just social phobias.\n\nThe SIAS is highly correlated with the SPS, suggesting that subjects from the community may not discriminate between the types of situations assessed in the two scales. However, this limitation is not present among undergraduates or patients with social phobia.\n\nThe SIAS has not been adequately assessed among an African American population, which is necessary as some concerns addressed in the SIAS may be more related to perceived scrutiny associated with being a member of a minority group.\n"}
{"id": "19962365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19962365", "title": "State Revolving Fund", "text": "State Revolving Fund\n\nA State Revolving Fund (SRF) is a fund administered by a U.S. state for the purpose of providing low-interest loans for investments in water and sanitation infrastructure (e.g., sewage treatment, stormwater management facilities, drinking water treatment), as well as for the implementation of nonpoint source pollution control and estuary protection projects. A SRF receives its initial capital from federal grants and state contributions. It then emits bonds that are guaranteed by the initial capital. It then \"revolves\" through the repayment of principal and the payment of interest on outstanding loans. There are currently two SRFs, the Clean Water State Revolving Fund created in 1987 under the Clean Water Act, and the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund created in 1997 under the Safe Drinking Water Act.\n\nEarly in the implementation of the Drinking Water State Revolving Fund program, following passage of the 1974 Safe Drinking Water Act, EPA underwent a process of evaluating the adequacy of state public water systems. The agency’s goal was to devolve primacy for drinking water quality management to states that were prepared to accept the responsibility, and to use the new funds provided by Congress in EPA’s budget to give states financial support.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "927985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=927985", "title": "The Botany of Desire", "text": "The Botany of Desire\n\nThe Botany of Desire: A Plant's-Eye View of the World is a 2001 nonfiction book by journalist Michael Pollan. Pollan presents case studies that mirror four types of human desires that are reflected in the way that we selectively grow, breed, and genetically engineer our plants. The tulip, beauty; marijuana, intoxication; the apple, sweetness; and the potato, control.\n\nThe stories range from the true story of Johnny Appleseed to Pollan's first-hand research with sophisticated marijuana hybrids in Amsterdam to the paradigm-shifting possibilities of genetically engineered potatoes. Pollan also discusses the limitations of monoculture agriculture: specifically, the adoption in Ireland of a single breed of potato (the Irish Lumper) made the Irish vulnerable to a fungus to which it had no resistance, resulting in the Irish Potato Famine. The Peruvians from whom the Irish had gotten the potato grew hundreds of varieties, so their exposure to any given pest was slight.\n\nThe book was used as the basis for \"The Botany of Desire\", a two-hour program broadcast by PBS.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32235307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32235307", "title": "The Ride to Conquer Cancer", "text": "The Ride to Conquer Cancer\n\nThe Ride to Conquer Cancer was created in 2008 as a \"mega-event\" fundraiser in support of The Princess Margaret Cancer Centre in Toronto, Ontario. It is an annual charity fundraiser held in various locations across Canada and Australia. It is organized as a non-competitive cycling event that sees thousands of riders travel over 200 kilometres (120 mi) over two days. It was first held in the Toronto area in 2008 and raised $14 million for the Princess Margaret Cancer Centre. Following the success of the first Ride, the event spread to Montreal, Calgary and Vancouver beginning in 2009, and to Brisbane in 2011. In 2017, a new Canadian Ride to Conquer Canada record of $20.5 million was raised. Over the 11-year history of the Ride over $175 million has been raised in Ontario and over $390 million across Canada. It has been the number one Peer-to-Peer fundraising brand in Canada for four consecutive years. Differing from other fundraisers, the event focused on having a relatively small number of participants raise considerably more money in support of cancer research. Each participant is required to raise a minimum of $2,500 in order to ride.\n\nThe Princess Margaret Cancer Centre has 12 site groups and 26 specialty clinics, and more than 3,000 staff who see over 400,000 patient visits every year. 850,000 square feet of clinical space house 202 inpatient beds, 16 linear accelerators, a state-of-the-art Magnetic Resonance-guided Radiation Therapy (MRgRT) suite, and two Leksell Gamma Knife Perfexion units, making it one of the largest comprehensive cancer treatment facilities in the world and the largest radiation treatment centre in Canada.\nPrincess Margaret sees over 1,000 patients every day and has the capacity to deliver diagnostic, treatment, and follow-up care to close to 200,000 patients and their families every year. In 2016, we saw 17,751 new patients. Among the services provided this past year, we delivered 6,031 cancer surgeries, as well as 37,754 system therapy visits, 91,517 radiation visits, and 428 stem cell transplants.\nThrough ongoing research, education and innovation, Princess Margaret continues to be on the frontiers of medical, surgical and radiation oncology, embracing the latest technology and international best-practices and setting standards for patient care.\n\nThe Ontario Ride starts in either Toronto or Niagara Falls. All Riders will meet in Hamilton on the Saturday for the night and then ride to Niagara Falls Sunday morning all together. The 2019 Ride, June 8-9, is highly anticipated due to its ongoing success and new Ride options. There is now a Virtual Ride Option and One Day Ride Option with two starting locations (Toronto Exhibition Centre and Niagara Falls). The 2018 Ride was the 11-year anniversary raising an incredible $18.3 million and garnered a lot of attention from past, present and future Riders. In 2017, 5,042 Riders raised a record-breaking $20.5 Million for Princess Margaret. In 2016, it raised $17.5 million with 4253 Riders. In 2014, 5,212 riders raised $20 million in support of The Princess Margaret Cancer Centre.\n\nThe British Columbia Ride originates in Vancouver, and crosses into the United States to finish in Seattle. Nearly 2,642 Riders raised $10.4 million in 2013 in support of the B.C. Cancer Foundation. As of 2018, the ride is switching routes from Vancouver to Hope, BC. \n\nThe Alberta ride originates at Spruce Meadows in Calgary and heads southwest to Chain Lakes Provincial Park in the foothills of the Rocky Mountains before returning to Calgary. 1,655 riders raised $7.5 million in support of the Alberta Cancer Foundation in 2013.\n\nThe Quebec Ride originates at Montreal and finishes in Quebec City and supports Sir Mortimer B. Davis Jewish General Hospital in Montreal. 1,778 riders raised $6.3 million in 2013.\n\nThe event went international in 2011, as The Rio Tinto Ride to Conquer Cancer took place in Brisbane in August 2011 and 2012. The event has raised nearly $10 million for cancer research at the Queensland Institute of Medical Research, one of the largest research institutes in Australia.\n\nRides also now take place annually in Perth, Sydney, and Melbourne.\n\nIn 2013, the Brisbane Ride, sponsored by Rio Tinto, had 1,236 participating riders, raising $4.2 million for QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute. The ride originated from Brisbane, breaking in Lake Wivenhoe, and returning to Brisbane.\n\nThe Melbourne Ride originated from Victoria in 2013. 1,223 participating riders raised $4.3 million for the Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre.\n\nThe Perth Ride, sponsored by Sunsuper, had 1,336 riders in 2013, raising $5.2 million for Harry Perkins Institute of Medical Research (formerly Western Australian Institute for Medical Research).\n\nThe Sydney Ride, sponsored by Sunsuper, had 1,034 participating riders in 2013, raising $4.1 million for the Chris O'Brien Lifehouse.\n\n2013 was the first year of The Ride to Conquer Cancer benefiting Cancer Society Auckland. 663 riders raised $2.1 million.\n\n"}
{"id": "562270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=562270", "title": "The Theory of the Leisure Class", "text": "The Theory of the Leisure Class\n\nThe Theory of the Leisure Class: An Economic Study of Institutions (1899), by Thorstein Veblen, is a treatise on economics and a detailed, social critique of conspicuous consumption, as a function of social class and of consumerism, derived from the social stratification of people and the division of labour, which are the social institutions of the feudal period (9th – 15th centuries) that have continued to the modern era.\n\nThat the contemporary lords of the manor, the businessmen who own the means of production, have employed themselves in the economically unproductive practices of conspicuous consumption and conspicuous leisure, which are useless activities that contribute neither to the economy nor to the material production of the useful goods and services required for the functioning of society; while it is the middle class and the working class who are usefully employed in the industrialised, productive occupations that support the whole of society.\n\nConducted in the late 19th century, Veblen's socio-economic analyses of the business cycles and the consequent price politics of the U.S. economy, and of the emergent division of labour, by technocratic speciality – scientist, engineer, technologist, \"et al.\" – proved to be accurate, sociological predictions of the economic structure of an industrial society.\n\nThe Theory of the Leisure Class: An Economic Study of Institutions (1899) presents the evolutionary development of human institutions (social and economic) that shape society, such as how the citizens earn their livelihoods, wherein technology and the industrial arts are the creative forces of economic production. That such production of goods and services was not merely the means of meeting the material needs of society, but of earning profits for the owners of the means of production. That the industrial production system required the workers (men and women) to be diligent, efficient, and co-operative, whilst the owners (businessmen and businesswomen) concerned themselves with making money and with the public display of their accumulated wealth; and that such behaviours (conspicuous consumption and conspicuous leisure) survived from the predatory, barbarian past of the tribal stage of modern society.\n\nThe sociology and economics applied by Veblen show the dynamic, intellectual influences of Charles Darwin, Karl Marx, Adam Smith, and Herbert Spencer; thus, his theories of socio-economics emphasize evolution and development as characteristics of human institutions. Therefore, Veblen criticised contemporary (19th-century) economic theories as intellectually static and hedonistic, and said that economists should take account of how people behave, socially and culturally, rather than rely upon the abstractions of theoretic deduction to explain the economic behaviours of society. Whereas neoclassical economics define people as rational agents who seek utility and maximal pleasure from their economic activities, Veblen perceived people as irrational, economic agents who pursue social status and the prestige inherent to a place in society (class and economic stratum) with little regard to their own happiness. That conspicuous consumption did not constitute social progress, because American economic development was unduly influenced by the static economics of the British aristocracy; therefore, conspicuous consumption was an un-American activity contrary to the country's dynamic culture of individualism.\n\nOriginally published as The Theory of the Leisure Class: An Economic Study in the Evolution of Institutions (1899), the book arose from three articles that Veblen published in the \"American Journal of Sociology\": (i) “The Beginning of Ownership” (ii) “The Barbarian Status of Women”, and (iii) “The Instinct of Workmanship and the Irksomeness of Labour” (1898–99), which presented the major themes of economics and sociology that he later developed in works such as: \"The Theory of Business Enterprise\" (1904), about how incompatible are the pursuit of profit and the making of useful goods; and \"The Instinct of Workmanship and the State of the Industrial Arts\" (1914), about the fundamental conflict between the human predisposition to useful production and the societal institutions that waste the useful products of human effort.\n\nMoreover, \"The Theory of the Leisure Class\" is a socio-economic treatise that resulted from Veblen's observation and perception of the United States as a society of rapidly developing economic and social institutions. Critics of his reportage about the sociology and economics of the consumer society that is the U.S., especially disliked the satiric tone of his literary style, and said that Thorstein Veblen's cultural perspective had been negatively influenced by his boyhood in a Norwegian American community, of practical, thrifty, and utilitarian people who endured anti-immigrant prejudices in the course of integration to American society.\n\nIn the late 19th century, \"The Theory of the Leisure Class: An Economic Study in the Evolution of Institutions\" (1899) established that the economic life of a modern society is based upon the social stratification of tribal and feudal societies, rather than upon merit, that is to say, upon social and economic utility. Thorstein Veblen's anthropological examples indicate that many economic behaviours of contemporary society derive from corresponding tribal-society behaviors, wherein men and women practiced the division of labour according to their status group; high-status people practiced hunting and warfare, which are economically unproductive occupations, whilst low-status people practiced farming and manufacturing, which are economically productive occupations.\n\nIn a stratified society, the division of labour inherent to the barbarian culture of conquest, domination, and exploitation featured labour-intensive occupations for the conquered people, and light-labour occupations for the conquerors, who thus became \"the leisure class\". Moreover, it was socially unimportant that low-status, productive occupations (tinker, tailor, chandler) were of greater economic value to society than were high-status, unproductive occupations (the profession of arms, the clergy, banking, etc.); nonetheless, for the sake of social cohesion, the leisure class occasionally performed productive work that contributed to the functioning of society, yet, such work was more symbolic participation in the economy, than it was practical economic production.\n\nIn exercising political control, the leisure class retained their high social-status by direct and indirect coercion, by reserving for themselves the profession of arms, and so withheld weapons and military skills from the lower social classes. Such a division of labour (economic utility) rendered the lower classes dependent upon the leisure class, and so established, justified, and perpetuated the role of the leisure class as the defenders of society against natural and supernatural enemies, because the clergy also belonged to the leisure class.\n\nIn the event, contemporary society did not psychologically supersede the tribal-stage division of labour, but merely evolved different forms of said division-of-labour-by-status. During the Mediæval period (5th c. – 15th c.) only land-owning noblemen had the right to hunt and to bear arms as soldiers; status and income were parallel. Likewise, in contemporary society, skilled labourers of the working class usually are paid an income, in wages, that is inferior to the income paid, in salary, to the educated professionals whose economic importance (as engineers, managers, salesmen, personnel clerks, \"et al.\") is indirectly productive for the whole of society; income and status are parallel.\n\nTo attain, retain, and gain greater social status within their social class, low-status people emulate the respected, high-status members of their socio-economic class, by consuming over-priced brands of goods and services perceived to be products of better quality, and thus of a higher social-class. In striving for greater social status, people buy high-status products (goods and services) which they cannot afford, despite the availability of affordable products that are perceived as of lower quality and lesser social-prestige, and thus of a lower social-class. In a consumer society, the businessman was the latest member of the leisure class, a barbarian who used his prowess (business acumen) and competitive skills (marketing) to increase profits, by manipulating the supply and the demand among the social classes and their strata, for the same products at different prices.\n\n\n\nIn the late 19th century, with \"The Theory of the Leisure Class: An Economic Study in the Evolution of Institutions\" (1899), Thorstein Veblen introduced the concepts of “conspicuous consumption” and of “conspicuous leisure” to the nascent, academic discipline of sociology. Conspicuous consumption is the application of money and material resources towards the display of a higher social-status (e.g. silver flatware, custom-made clothes, an over-sized house); and conspicuous leisure is the application of extended time to the pursuit of pleasure (physical and intellectual), such as sport and the fine arts. Therefore, such physical and intellectual pursuits display the freedom of the rich man and woman from having to work in an economically productive occupation.\n\nMoreover, from the conspicuous consumption of necessary, useful goods (food, shelter, clothing, etc.) that satisfied the requirements of physical survival, there emerged the conspicuous consumption of \"Veblen goods\", which, as defined by the pecuniary canons of taste of the leisure class, are consumer goods valued for being expensive to make, sell, and buy; ownership of Veblen goods communicates a superior socio-economic status, either of class or of stratum, or both.\n\n\nThe modern industrial society developed from the barbarian tribal society, which featured a leisure class supported by subordinated working classes employed in economically productive occupations. The leisure class is composed of people exempted from manual work and from practicing economically productive occupations, because they belong to the leisure class.\n\n“The emergence of a leisure class coincides with the beginning of ownership” initially based upon marriage as a form of ownership – of women and their property – as evidence of prowess. As such, the material consumption of the leisure class has little to do with either comfort or subsistence, and much to do with social esteem from the community, and thus with self-respect.\n\nAmong the lower social-classes, a man’s reputation as a diligent, efficient, and productive worker is the highest form of pecuniary emulation of the leisure class available to him in society. Yet, among the social strata of the leisure class, manual labour is perceived as a sign of social and economic weakness; thus, the defining, social characteristics of the leisure class are the “exemption from useful employment” and the practice of conspicuous leisure as a “non-productive consumption of time”.\n\nTheoretically, the consumption of luxury products (goods and services) is limited to the leisure class, because the working classes have other, more important, things and activities on which to spend their limited income, their wages. Yet, such is not the case, because the lower classes consume expensive alcoholic beverages and narcotic drugs. In doing so, the working classes seek to emulate the standards of life and play of the leisure class, because they are the people \"at the head of the social structure in point of reputability\". In that emulation of the leisure class, social manners are a result of the non-productive, consumption of time by the upper social classes; thus the social utility of conspicuous consumption and of conspicuous leisure lies in their wastefulness of time and resources.\n\nIn a society of industrialised production (of goods and services), the habitual consumption of products establishes a person's standard of living; therefore, it is more difficult to do without products than it is to continually add products to one's way of life. Moreover, upon achieving self-preservation (food and shelter), \"the needs of conspicuous waste\" determine the economic and industrial improvements of society.\n\nTo the leisure class, a material object becomes a product of conspicuous consumption when it is integrated to “the canon of honorific waste”, by being regarded either as beautiful or worthy of possession for itself. Consequently, to the lower classes, possessing such an object becomes an exercise in the pecuniary emulation of the leisure class. Therefore, an \"objet d’art\" made of precious metal and gemstones is a more popular possession than is an object of art made of equally beautiful, but less expensive materials, because a high price can masquerade as beauty that appeals to the sense of social prestige of the possessor-consumer.\n\nIn a consumer society, the function of clothes is to define the wearer as a man or a woman who belongs to a given social class, not for protection from the environment. Clothing also indicates that the wearer’s livelihood does not depend upon economically productive labour, such as farming and manufacturing, which activities require protective clothing. Moreover, the symbolic function of clothes indicates that the wearer belongs to the leisure class, and can afford to buy new clothes when the fashion changes.\n\nA society develops through the establishment of institutions (social, governmental, economic, etc.) modified only in accordance with ideas from the past, in order to maintain societal stability. Politically, the leisure class maintain their societal dominance, by retaining out-dated aspects of the political economy; thus, their opposition to socio-economic progressivism to the degree that they consider political conservatism and political reaction as honorific features of the leisure class.\n\nThe existence of the leisure class influences the behaviour of the individual man and woman, by way of social ambition. To rise in society, a person from a lower class emulates the characteristics of the desired upper class; he or she assumes the habits of economic consumption and social attitudes (archaic traits of demeanour in speech, dress, and manners). In pursuit of social advancement, and concomitant social prestige, the man and the woman who rid themselves of scruple and honesty will more readily rise into a stratum of the leisure class.\n\nAs owners of the means of production, the leisure class benefit from, but do not work in, the industrial community, and do not materially contribute to the commonweal (the welfare of the public) but do consume the goods and services produced by the working classes. As such, the individual success (social and economic) of a person derives from his or her astuteness and ferocity, which are character traits nurtured by the pecuniary culture of the consumer society.\n\nThe belief in the concept of “luck” (Fortuna) is one reason why people gamble; likewise follows the belief that luck is a part of achieving socio-economic success, rather than the likelier reason of social connections derived from a person's social class and social stratum. Within the social strata of the leisure class, the belief in luck is greater in the matter of sport (wherein physical prowess does matter) because of personal pride, and the concomitant social prestige; hence, gambling is a display of conspicuous consumption and of conspicuous leisure. Nonetheless, gambling (the belief in luck) is a social practice common to every social class of society.\n\nThe existence, function, and practice of religion in a socially-stratified society, is a form of abstract conspicuous consumption for and among the members of the person’s community, of devotion to the value system that justifies the existence of his or her social class. As such, attending church services, participating in religious rites, and paying tithes, are a form of conspicuous leisure.\n\nThe clergy and the women who are members of the leisure class function as objects of vicarious leisure, thus, it is morally impossible for them to work and productively contribute to society. As such, maintaining a high social-class is more important for a woman of the leisure class, than it is for a man of the leisure class. Women, therefore, are the greatest indicators of a man’s socio-economic standing in his respective community. In a consumer society, how a woman spends her time and what activities she does with her time communicate the social standing of her husband, her family, and her social class.\n\nEducation (academic, technical, religious) is a form of conspicuous leisure, because it does not directly contribute to the economy of society. Therefore, high-status, ceremonial symbols of book-learning, such as the gown and mortar-board-cap of the university graduate educated in abstract subjects (science, mathematics, philosophy, etc.) are greatly respected, whereas certificates, low-status, ceremonial symbols of practical schooling (technology, manufacturing, etc.) are not greatly respected to the same degree, because the contemporary university is a leisure-class institution.\n\nIn \"The Theory of the Leisure Class: An Economic Study of Institutions\" (1899), Thorstein Veblen used idiosyncratic and satirical language to present the consumerist mores of modern American society; about the impracticality of etiquette, as a form of conspicuous leisure, Veblen said that:\n\nIn contrast, Veblen used objective language in \"The Theory of Business Enterprise\" (1904), which analyses the business-cycle behaviours of businessmen; yet, in the Introduction to the 1967 edition of \"The Theory of the Leisure Class\", the economist Robert Lekachman said that Thorstein Veblen was a misanthrope, that:\n\nConcurring with Lekachman, the economist John Kenneth Galbraith, in his Introduction to the 1973 edition, said that \"The Theory of the Leisure Class\" is Veblen's intellectual put-down of American society. That Veblen spoke satirically in order to soften the negative implications of his socio-economic analyses of the U.S., which are more psychologically threatening to the American ego and \"status quo\", than the negative implications of Karl Marx's analyses. That, unlike Marx, who recognised capitalism as superior to feudalism in providing products (goods and services) for mass consumption, Veblen did not recognise that distinction, because capitalism was economic barbarism, and that goods and services produced for conspicuous consumption are fundamentally worthless.\n\nThe publishing success of \"The Theory of the Leisure Class: An Economic Study in the Evolution of Institutions\" (1899) derived from the fidelity, accuracy, and veracity of Thorstein Veblen's reportage of the social and economic behavior of American society; yet, some contemporaries considered that Veblen's intellectualism made him an iconoclast who was \"more than a little mad\". In that vein, despite the success (financial, academic, social) accrued to him by the book, another contemporary social scientist told Veblen that the sociology of gross consumerism cataloged in \"The Theory of the Leisure Class\" had much \"fluttered the dovecotes of the East\", especially in the Ivy League academic Establishment.\n\nIn the contemporary (19th-century) book review '\"The Theory of the Leisure Class\" (September 1899), John Cummings wrote:\n\nIn the two-part book review \"An Opportunity for American Fiction\" (April–May 1899), the critic William Dean Howells made Veblen's treatise the handbook of sociology and economics for the American intelligentsia of the early 20th century. He reviewed first the economics and then the social satire in \"The Theory of the Leisure Class: An Economic Study in the Evolution of Institutions\"; and reported that class anxiety impels American society to wasteful consumerism, especially the pursuit of social prestige by owning consumer goods. That, despite social classes being alike in most stratified societies, the novelty of the American social-class system was that the leisure class had only recently appeared in U.S. history.\n\nHowells concluded the book review by calling upon a novelist to translate into fiction the message reported by the social-scientist Veblen, because a novel of manners was an opportunity for American fiction to accessibly communicate the satire in \"The Theory of the Leisure Class\":\n\nTwenty years later, in the book review “Professor Veblen” (1919), about the author and the thesis of \"The Theory of the Leisure Class\" (1899) the American intellectual and journalist H. L. Mencken asked:\n\nIn the review \"Dr. Thorstein Veblen Gets the Crown of Deadly Nightshade\" (1919), \"The Theory of the Leisure Class\" was featured as The Dullest Book of the Month, wherein the satirist Robert Benchley said and asked:\n\nThirty years later, during which time the academic establishment of the US slowly accepted the socioeconomic facts reported in \"The Theory of the Leisure Class\", Veblen was vindicated as a social scientist, by the two Middletown studies (\"Middletown: A Study in Modern American Culture\" [1929] and \"Middletown in Transition: A Study in Cultural Conflicts\" [1937]) which presented empirical evidence that working-class families practiced conspicuous consumption and did without necessities (adequate food and clothing, etc.) in order to present and maintain the public appearance of being in a higher social-class.\n\nIn the Introduction to the 1934 edition of the book, the economist Stuart Chase said that the Great Depression (ca. 1929–41) had vindicated Veblen as an economist, because \"The Theory of the Leisure Class\" had unified \"the outstanding economists of the world.\" In the Foreword to the 1953 edition, the sociologist C. Wright Mills said that Veblen was \"the best critic of America that America has ever produced\". In the Introduction to the 1973 edition of the book, the economist John Kenneth Galbraith addressed the author as subject, and said that Veblen was a man of his time, and that \"The Theory of the Leisure Class\" – published in 1899 – reflected Veblen's 19th-century world view. That in his person and personality, the social scientist Thorstein Veblen was neglectful of his grooming and tended to be disheveled; that he suffered social intolerance for being an intellectual and an agnostic in a society of superstitious and anti-intellectual people, and so tended to curtness with less intelligent folk.\n\nContemporary advocates of the 18th-century school of classical economics (free markets and individual pursuit of self-interest ) have presented opinions against the cultural relevance of the socioeconomic theories of Thorstein Veblen (conspicuous consumption and conspicuous leisure, etc.) and for their relegation to the margin of modern economics. Among the arguments are Veblen's dismissal of the rational-expectation theories that predominate classical economics, and that the American leisure-class risk becoming irrelevant to the economy if they do not work. The historian of economics Robert Heilbroner said that Veblen's social and economic theories were valid for the American Gilded Age (ca. 1870–1900) of gross materialism and political corruption, in the late 19th century, but are invalid for the economy of the 21st-century world, because \"The Theory of the Leisure Class\" is historically specific to U.S. society, in general, and to the society of Chicago, in particular; thus, in the essay \"No Rest for the Wealthy\" (2009), the financial journalist Daniel Gross said:\n\nYet, the \"economy-as-organism\" theory of Butterfly Economics have vindicated Thorstein Veblen as an insightful and foresighted economist, because his empirical observations have been re-stated by contemporary economists, such as Robert H. Frank, who applied socioeconomic analyses to the economy of the 21st century. The analytical application of the conspicuous-consumption construct to the business and economic functions of advertising explains why the lower social-classes do not experience social upward mobility in their societies, despite being the productive classes of their economies. About the limited social-utility and economic non-productivity of the business social-class, the American business entrepreneur Warren Buffett said that non-productive financial activities, such as day trading (speculative buying-and-selling of financial securities) and arbitrage (manipulation of price-differentials among markets) have vindicated \"The Theory of the Leisure Class: An Economic Study of Institutions\" (1899), because such activities only produce capital, but do not produce useful goods and services for people.\n\n"}
{"id": "37993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37993", "title": "Toilet paper", "text": "Toilet paper\n\nToilet paper is a tissue paper product people primarily use to clean the anus and surrounding area of fecal material after defecation and to clean the perineal area of urine after urination and other bodily fluid releases. It also acts as a layer of protection for the hands during these processes. It is sold as a long strip of perforated paper wrapped around a paperboard core for storage in a dispenser near a toilet. Most modern toilet paper in the developed world is designed to decompose in septic tanks, whereas some other bathroom and facial tissues are not. Toilet paper comes in various numbers of plies (layers of thickness), from one-ply all the way up to six-ply, with more back-to-back plies granting greater strength and absorbency.\n\nThe use of paper for hygiene has been recorded in China in the 6th century AD, with specifically manufactured toilet paper being mass-produced in the 14th century. Modern commercial toilet paper originated in the 19th century, with a patent for roll-based dispensers being made in 1883.\n\nAlthough paper had been known as a wrapping and padding material in China since the 2nd century BC, the first documented use of toilet paper in human history dates back to the 6th century AD, in early medieval China. In 589 AD the scholar-official Yan Zhitui (531–591) wrote about the use of toilet paper:\n\nDuring the later Tang dynasty (618–907 AD), an Arab traveller to China in the year 851 AD remarked:\n\nDuring the early 14th century, it was recorded that in modern-day Zhejiang province alone there was an annual manufacturing of toilet paper amounting to ten million packages of 1,000 to 10,000 sheets of toilet paper each. During the Ming dynasty (1368–1644 AD), it was recorded in 1393 that an annual supply of 720,000 sheets of toilet paper (two by three feet in size) were produced for the general use of the imperial court at the capital of Nanjing. From the records of the Imperial Bureau of Supplies of that same year, it was also recorded that for the Hongwu Emperor's imperial family alone, there were 15,000 sheets of special soft-fabric toilet paper made, and each sheet of toilet paper was even perfumed.\n\nElsewhere, wealthy people wiped themselves with wool, lace or hemp, while less wealthy people used their hand when defecating into rivers, or cleaned themselves with various materials such as rags, wood shavings, leaves, grass, hay, stones, sand, moss, water, snow, ferns, plant husks, fruit skins, seashells, or corncobs, depending upon the country and weather conditions or social customs. In Ancient Rome, a sponge on a stick was commonly used, and, after use, placed back in a pail of vinegar. Several talmudic sources indicating ancient Jewish practice refer to the use of small pebbles, often carried in a special bag, and also to the use of dry grass and of the smooth edges of broken pottery jugs (e.g., Shabbat 81a, 82a, Yevamot 59b). These are all cited in the classic \"Biblical and Talmudic Medicine\" by the German physician Julius Preuss (Eng. trans. Sanhedrin Press, 1978).\n\nThe 16th-century French satirical writer François Rabelais, in Chapter XIII of Book 1 of his novel sequence \"Gargantua and Pantagruel\", has his character Gargantua investigate a great number of ways of cleansing oneself after defecating. Gargantua dismisses the use of paper as ineffective, rhyming that: \"Who his foul tail with paper wipes, Shall at his ballocks leave some chips.\" (Sir Thomas Urquhart's 1653 English translation). He concludes that \"the neck of a goose, that is well downed\" provides an optimum cleansing medium.\n\nThe rise of publishing by the eighteenth century led to the use of newspapers and cheap editions of popular books for cleansing. Lord Chesterfield, in a letter to his son in 1747, told of a man who purchased\n\nIn many parts of the world, especially where toilet paper or the necessary plumbing for disposal may be unavailable or unaffordable, toilet paper is not used. Also, in many parts of the world such as India, people consider using water a much cleaner and more sanitary practice than using paper. Cleansing is then performed with other methods or materials, such as water, for example using a bidet, a lota, rags, sand, leaves (including seaweed), corn cobs, animal furs, sticks or hands; afterwards, hands are washed with water and possibly soap.\n\nJoseph Gayetty is widely credited with being the inventor of modern commercially available toilet paper in the United States. Gayetty's paper, first introduced in 1857, was available as late as the 1920s. Gayetty's Medicated Paper was sold in packages of flat sheets, watermarked with the inventor's name. Original advertisements for the product used the tagline \"The greatest necessity of the age! Gayetty's medicated paper for the water-closet.\"\n\nSeth Wheeler of Albany, New York, obtained the earliest United States patents for toilet paper and dispensers, the types of which eventually were in common use in that country, in 1883.\n\nThe manufacturing of this product had a long period of refinement, considering that as late as the 1930s, a selling point of the Northern Tissue company was that their toilet paper was \"splinter free\". \n\nMoist toilet paper, called wet wipes, was first introduced in the United Kingdom by Andrex in the 1990s, and in the United States by Kimberly-Clark in 2001. It has been promoted as being a better method of cleaning than dry toilet paper after defecation, and may be useful for women during menstruation. It was promoted as a flushable product but it has been implicated in the creation of fatbergs. By 2016, some municipalities had begun education campaigns advising people not to flush used wet wipes. \n\nMore than seven billion rolls of toilet paper are sold yearly in the U.S. alone. Americans use an average of 23.6 rolls per capita per year.\nToilet paper is available in several types of paper, a variety of patterns, decorations, and textures, and it may be moistened or perfumed, although fragrances sometimes cause problems for users who are allergic to perfumes. The average measures of a modern roll of toilet paper is c. 10 cm (3 in.) wide, and 12 cm (4 in.) in diameter, and weighs about 227 grams (8 oz.). An alternative method of packing the sheets uses interleaved sheets in boxes, or in bulk for use in dispensers. \"Hard\" single ply paper has been used as well as soft multi-ply.\n\nManufactured toilet paper sheet in the United States was sized 4\" × 4\". Since 1999 the size of a sheet has been shrinking; Kimberly-Clark reduced the length of a sheet to 4.1\". Scott, in 2006, reduced the length of their product to 3.7\". The width of sheets was later reduced giving a general sheet size of 3.7\" long and 4.1\" wide. Larger sizes remain available.\n\nToilet paper products vary greatly in the distinguishing technical factors, such as size, weight, roughness, softness, chemical residues, \"finger-breakthrough\" resistance, water-absorption, etc. The larger companies have very detailed, scientific market surveys to determine which marketing sectors require or demand which of the many technical qualities. Modern toilet paper may have a light coating of aloe or lotion or wax worked into the paper to reduce roughness.\n\nQuality is usually determined by the number of plies (stacked sheets), coarseness, and durability. Low grade institutional toilet paper is typically of the lowest grade of paper, has only one or two plies, is very coarse and sometimes contains small amounts of embedded unbleached/unpulped paper. Mid-grade two ply is somewhat textured to provide some softness and is somewhat stronger. Premium toilet paper may have lotion and wax and has two to four plies of very finely pulped paper. If it is marketed as \"luxury\", it may be quilted or rippled (embossed), perfumed, colored or patterned, medicated (with anti-bacterial chemicals), or treated with aloe or other perfumes.\n\nIn order to advance decomposition of the paper in septic tanks or drainage, the paper used has shorter fibres than facial tissue or writing paper. The manufacturer tries to reach an optimal balance between rapid decomposition (which requires shorter fibres) and sturdiness (which requires longer fibres). Compaction of toilet paper in drain lines, such as in a clog, prevents fiber dispersion and largely halts the breakdown process.\n\nA German quip says that the toilet paper of Nazi Germany was so rough and scratchy that it was almost unusable, so many people used old issues of the \"Völkischer Beobachter\" instead, because the paper was softer.\n\nColored toilet paper in colors such as pink, lavender, light blue, light green, purple, green, and light yellow (so that one could choose a color of toilet paper that matched or complemented the color of one's bathroom) was commonly sold in the United States from the 1960s. Up until 2004, Scott was one of the last remaining U.S. manufacturers to still produce toilet paper in beige, blue, and pink. However, the company has since cut production of colored paper altogether.\n\nToday, in the United States, plain unpatterned colored toilet paper has been mostly replaced by patterned toilet paper, normally white, with embossed decorative patterns or designs in various colors and different sizes depending on the brand. Colored toilet paper remains commonly available in some European countries.\n\nAn unintended problem with the design of the laminated construction of the sheets in a roll is that, on occasion whilst un-rolling, separation occurs between laminations rather than at the intended interface. Perforations then become misaligned and sheets cannot be torn off cleanly. The problem is resolved by careful un-winding of one or more laminations until the perforations re-align.\n\nA toilet roll holder, also known as a toilet paper dispenser, is an item that holds a roll of toilet paper. There are at least seven types of holders:\n\nSome commercial or institutional toilet paper is wrapped around a cylinder to many times the thickness of a standard toilet paper roll.\n\nThere are two choices of orientation when using a holder with a horizontal axle parallel to the wall: the toilet paper may hang \"over\" or \"under\" the roll. The choice is largely a matter of personal preference, dictated by habit. In surveys of American consumers and of bath and kitchen specialists, 60-70% of respondents prefer \"over\".\n\n\"Toilegami\" refers to toilet paper origami. Like table napkins, some fancy Japanese hotels fold the first squares of toilet paper on its dispenser to be presented in a fashionable way.\n\nIn the United States, toilet paper has been the primary tool in a prank known as \"TP-ing\" (pronounced Teepeeing). TP-ing, or \"toilet papering\", is often favored by adolescents and is the act of throwing rolls of toilet paper over cars, trees, houses and gardens, causing the toilet paper to unfurl and cover the property, creating an inconvenient mess.\n\nChildren and cats have taken to unrolling an entire roll of toilet paper by spinning it until it completely unravels on the floor, or as a game by children wadding up one end, putting it in the toilet bowl without tearing it and then using the flushing of the toilet to pull new paper into the toilet, with the objective of flushing the entire roll down the toilet section at a time without the toilet paper breaking. Special toilet paper insert holders with an oblong shape were invented to prevent continuous unrolling without tearing to discourage this practice.\n\nToilet paper pranks include musical toilet paper holders and inserts that are activated by the unrolling of the toilet paper and will loudly play an embarrassing song calling attention to the person defecating.\n\nOther gags include custom toilet paper printed with jokes, stories or politician's images.\n\nAlexander Balankin and coauthors have studied the behavior of toilet paper under tensile stress and during wetting and burning.\n\nToilet paper has been used in physics education to demonstrate the concepts of torque, moment of inertia, and angular momentum; and the conservation of momentum and energy.\n\nOne tree produces about of toilet paper and about 83 million rolls are produced per day. Global toilet paper production consumes 27,000 trees daily.\n\nMore than seven billion rolls of toilet paper are sold yearly in the United States alone. Americans use an average of 23.6 rolls per capita a year. The average American uses of tissue paper per year which is 50% more than the average of other Western countries or Japan. The higher use in the United States may be explained by the fact that other countries people use bidets or spray hoses to clean themselves. Millions of trees are harvested in North and South America leaving ecological footprint concerns. Citizens of many Western countries sometimes use toilet paper for industrial purposes such as oil filters, which may distort the use statistics.\n\n, between 22% and 48% of the toilet paper used in the United States comes from tree farms in the U.S. and South America, with most of the rest coming from second growth forests, and only a small percentage coming from virgin forests.\n\nToilet paper of many brands is now made from recycled paper. However, paper such as newspaper is recycled, despite it containing BPA, an endocrine disruptor. Many others sell toilet paper crafted out of bagasse, a byproduct of sugarcane.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43051635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43051635", "title": "United States Cochrane Center", "text": "United States Cochrane Center\n\nThe United States Cochrane Center (USCC) was one of the 14 centers on the world that facilitated the work of the Cochrane Collaboration.\nThe USCC was the reference center for all 50 US states and US territories, protectorates, and districts: the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the US Virgin Islands. The USCC was also the reference Center for the following countries: Antigua and Barbuda, Bahamas, Barbados, Belize, Dominica, Grenada, Guam, Guyana, Jamaica, Japan, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago. The USCC discontinued on February 7, 2018.\n\nIn the United States, there have been four Cochrane Centers since the start of the Cochrane Collaboration in October 1993. The Baltimore Cochrane Center was launched soon after the launch of the Collaboration, officially in 1994, with Kay Dickersin as Director. The San Francisco Cochrane Center was launched soon thereafter, in 1996, with Lisa Bero and Drummond Rennie as Co-Directors. The San Antonio Cochrane Center launched in 1994, with Cynthia Mulrow as Director, and the New England Cochrane Center launched in 1996 with Joseph Lau and Alexia Anczack-Bouckoms as co-Directors. In 1998, Kay Dickersin moved to Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island, and with the move the Baltimore Cochrane Center was renamed the New England Cochrane Center, Providence Office.\n\nThe US centers had variable luck with obtaining sufficient infrastructure funding, and The San Antonio Cochrane Center closed in 2000. In December 2002, the remaining three centers (the New England Cochrane Center at Boston, the New England Cochrane Center at Providence, and the San Francisco Cochrane Center) merged to form a single registered entity with three offices, the US Cochrane Center (the USCC). The Providence office became the first point of contact for the work of The Cochrane Collaboration in the United States and assumed responsibility for fulfilling the core Center functions.\n\nIn 2005, Kay Dickersin returned to Baltimore, to take up a post at Johns Hopkins University, and the USCC moved with her. The New England Cochrane Center Boston Office closed in February, 2008. In approximately 2006, Drummond Rennie moved out of the area, leaving his post as SF Branch Director, and Lisa Bero became the Center Director.\n\nIn June 2014, the San Francisco Branch of the United States (US) Cochrane Center changed its name to the West Coast Branch of the US Cochrane Center, and because of Lisa Bero’s emigration to Australia, a new Branch Director was announced, Mark Helfand located at Oregon Health and Science University.\n\nOn February 7, 2018, the USCC closed its doors. \n\n\nThe USCC main office in Baltimore was responsible for providing training and support for review authors, trials search coordinators (TSCs), review group coordinators (RGCs), editors, handsearchers, consumers, healthcare providers, policy makers, and others. In addition the main office of the USCC worked with international colleagues to provide training and support for others in the Collaboration who were responsible for training.\n\nEach Cochrane Center is responsible for a unique function within the Cochrane Collaboration. For twelve years (1994 to 2005) the Baltimore Cochrane Center, and subsequently NECC@P, was responsible for coordinating CENTRAL, The Cochrane Collaboration’s central register of controlled clinical trials. CENTRAL was designed for use by members of the Collaboration’s review groups and others performing systematic reviews. CENTRAL serves both as a repository for trial reports identified by members of the Collaboration and as a source of trial reports from which Review Groups build their specialized registers. In late 1992, work began on development of a register of reports of controlled trials for use in conducting systematic reviews. The first meeting was held and the eligibility criteria were decided at the Cochrane Workshop on “Building a Register of RCTs” at Green College, Oxford, United Kingdom, November 8, 1992 and was attended by Iain Chalmers, Carol Lefebrvre and Kay Dickersin, among others. Definitions and eligibility criteria were decided then that continue to be used to this day.\n\nAlthough the individuals interested in and key to the developments leading to international registers of randomized controlled trials were also leaders in the Cochrane Collaboration, a larger and more centralized group was felt to be a better location for a common resource. Accordingly, the U.S. National Institutes of Health and specifically the U.S. National Library of Medicine were approached about a partnership. The National Institutes of Health convened a meeting in December 1993 to consider the importance of registers of controlled trials for the promotion of evidence-based health care. One of the outcomes of that meeting was an agreement by National Library of Medicine to retag existing MEDLINE records of reports of RCTs and CCTs, identified by Cochrane collaborators and not already tagged as such, with the publication types (PTs) RANDOMIZED-CONTROLLED-TRIAL (RCT[PT]) and CONTROLLED-CLINICAL-TRIAL (CCT[PT]).\n\nThe USCC conducted the “MEDLINE Retagging Project” from 1994-2005 by submitting to MEDLINE all CCTs and RCTs it had identified that were not yet tagged RCT/PT or CCT/PT in MEDLINE. It identified these publications in two ways: (1) collecting on a quarterly basis all CCT and RCT reports newly identified via handsearching by the approximately 50 Cochrane review groups, and (2) identifying all CCTs and RCTs not already identified as such on MEDLINE using electronic search methods. CENTRAL was then created using two sources of information about published trial reports, periodic download of all records in MEDLINE tagged as RCT|PT and CCT|PT and submission of non-MEDLINE eligible citations (e.g., conference abstracts identified through handsearching) by the centers and review groups.\n\nAfter 1994, when the new publication type tags were initiated, reports of trials missed by NLM’s MEDLINE indexing grew smaller with each year and the NLM decided not to fund the retagging Program after 2005. For the 1994-2005 time period, CENTRAL was funded mainly by the National Library of Medicine, and also by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, The Packard Foundation, and the European Union Biomedical and Health Research Programmes I and II.\n\nSome trials are still missed by the MEDLINE indexers however, and searches of other electronic bibliographic databases are required, so the effort to make CENTRAL a comprehensive database of studies possibly eligible for Cochrane reviews continues. Since 2005, development of CENTRAL has been conducted by Cochrane and John Wiley and Sons, publishers of The Cochrane Library.\n\nThe West Coast Affiliate Center operates out of Oregon Health & Science University and University of California, San Francisco. It develops guidance for systematic reviews of complex interventions and realist reviews of health policies.\n\nThe CBUSCC is the reference center for English-speaking Caribbean territories. Its development extends the services available to Cochrane contributors already working in the Caribbean region and also supports new authors.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44279", "title": "United States Secretary of Health and Human Services", "text": "United States Secretary of Health and Human Services\n\nThe United States Secretary of Health and Human Services is the head of the United States Department of Health and Human Services, concerned with health matters. The Secretary is a member of the President's Cabinet. The office was formerly Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare.\n\nIn 1980, the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare was renamed the Department of Health and Human Services, and its education functions and Rehabilitation Services Administration were transferred to the new Department of Education. Patricia Roberts Harris headed the department before and after it was renamed.\n\nNominations to the office of Secretary of HHS are referred to the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee and the Finance Committee, which has jurisdiction over Medicare and Medicaid, before confirmation is considered by the full United States Senate.\n\nUnder the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act the role of the Secretary has been greatly expanded.\n\nDonald Trump selected then-Congressman Tom Price to be the 23rd Secretary of the Health and Human Services Department. Price was confirmed by the U.S. Senate on February 10, 2017 and resigned on September 29, 2017. Trump then named Don J. Wright, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Health and Director of the Office of Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, as acting Secretary until Deputy Secretary Eric Hargan was sworn in on October 10, 2017. On November 13, 2017, Trump nominated former pharmaceutical executive Alex Azar to fill the position permanently. Azar's confirmation hearing before the Senate Finance Committee took place on January 9, 2018, and on January 24, 2018, Azar was confirmed by the U.S. Senate by a vote of 55 to 43. Azar was sworn in on January 29, 2018.\n\nThe duties of the secretary revolve around human conditions and concerns in the United States. This includes advising the president on matters of health, welfare, and income security programs. The Secretary strives to administer the Department of Health and Human Services to carry out approved programs and make the public aware of the objectives of the department.\n\nThe was reorganized into a Department of Education and a Department of Health and Human Services (US DHHS).\n\nThe Department of Health and Human Services oversees 11 agencies including the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Center for Disease Control (CDC), National Institutes of Health (NIH), Administration for Children and Families (ACF) and Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS).\n\n (8)\n (15)\n\nThe line of succession for the Secretary of Health and Human Services is as follows:\n\nAs of , there are two living former , the oldest being Joseph A. Califano Jr. (served 1977–1979, born 1931). The most recent Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare to die was Caspar Weinberger (served 1973–1975, born 1917), on March 28, 2006. The most recently serving Secretary to die was Patricia Roberts Harris (served 1979–1980, born 1924) on March 23, 1985.\n\nAs of , there are seven living former Secretaries of Health and Human Services, the oldest being Louis W. Sullivan (served 1989–1993, born 1933); The most recent Secretary of Health and Human Services to die was Margaret Heckler (served 1983–1985, born 1931), on August 6, 2018. The most recently serving Secretary to die was Otis R. Bowen (served 1985–1988, born 1918) on May 4, 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "45404509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45404509", "title": "University of Washington School of Pharmacy", "text": "University of Washington School of Pharmacy\n\nThe University of Washington School of Pharmacy was founded in 1894 and is one of two PharmD granting institutions within the state of Washington. Offices are located within the Warren G. Magnuson Health Sciences Building on the University of Washington campus. U.S. News & World Report ranked the School of Pharmacy as tied for the tenth best pharmacy school in the United States in 2012.\n\nSean Sullivan became the 9th dean of the school in 2014.\n\nAs of 2015, the school has 381 PharmD students, 59 PhD students, and 40 Masters of Science students and is 64% female.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4642990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4642990", "title": "University of Waterloo School of Optometry and Vision Science", "text": "University of Waterloo School of Optometry and Vision Science\n\nThe School of Optometry and Vision Science is one of the professional schools at the University of Waterloo. It is a school within the university's Faculty of Science and is the larger of the two optometry schools in Canada. The School is the only English speaking Optometry School in the country; the Francophone Université de Montréal program operates in Quebec.\n\nThe University of Waterloo School of Optometry opened on July 1, 1967 (the Canadian Centennial). Before this time, optometrists were trained at the College of Optometry of Ontario in Toronto. The size of the program doubled once this affiliation with UW was established. Dr. Edward J. Fisher served as the new school's first dean until 1975. Fisher had been dean of the College of Optometry for 19 years beforehand, and from 1969 to 1970 he served as the 23rd President of the American Academy of Optometry, the first Canadian to serve in that capacity.\n\nClasses and administrative offices were originally based in the Math and Computer building and the Biology 1 buildings at the University in Waterloo. A clinic was established in the old post office at 35 King Street North. In 1973, the Optometry building was built in its present location on the north side of Columbia Street, where lecture halls and clinic facilities are made available in one place.\n\nThe Doctor of Optometry (OD) degree has been a four-year program since the 1950s at the College of Optometry of Ontario, where a Grade 13 high school education was sufficient for admission. Since then, the program has remained four years in length, but the curriculum has changed remarkably. Because of this, the prerequisite level of education has also changed: first from a minimum of one year of university science education, then a minimum of two years, now a minimum of three years of full-time study in a science degree program. \n\nCurrently, a minimum of 3 years of full time study in a science degree program are required for admission into the 4 year professional program. However, most students choose to finish their undergraduate degree before entering Optometry school. There are several prerequisite courses, encompassing subjects such as biology, chemistry, physics, calculus, psychology and ethics that are required to be considered for admission.\n\nThe four-year Doctor of Optometry (OD) program provides preparation for the practice of optometry, with both classroom instruction and hands-on clinical experience. In order to practice optometry, graduates from the OD program must pass both the written and oral Canadian Board Exams, as well as writing the jurisprudence licensing exam for their home province. Classes cover topics such as general medicine, optics, pharmacology, ocular disease, visual perception, practice management and more. Extensive clinical experience is provided starting in first year of the intensive program. The fourth year of the program is entirely clinical, consisting of 3 consecutive terms of clinical rotations: ocular disease externship, private practice experience and rotation through UW's speciality clinics.\n\nGraduate studies in Vision Science (MSc, PhD) are available at the School of Optometry and Vision Science. The MSc program was established in 1972 and the PhD program began in 1980. Both are open to graduates from optometry and from other undergraduate programs. The programs are designed to further knowledge in specific aspects of vision, and often this involves integration with the other sciences. A combined Doctor of Optometry–Master of Science in Vision Science option exists as well; this is typically a five-year program.\n\nThe School of Optometry also offers ACOE accredited residencies in areas such as binocular vision, low vision, cornea/contact lenses and ocular health. Residencies are available for licence OD's who wish to advance their clinical knowledge in a specialty practice area.\n\nThe International Optometric Bridging Program (IOBP) is a new program designed for optometrists trained outside Canada and the USA, to help learning the language, academic, and clinical skills needed to practise in Canada. After an initial assessment of credentials, applicants undergo a month-long orientation program and a year-long academic program. This is designed to adequately prepare internationally trained optometrists for the Canadian Standard Assessment in Optometry, the national Board exam required to practise optometry in Canada.\n\nAnnually, a Continuing Education (CE) program is offered to practising ODs which provides approximately 20 or more certified hours of CE credit.\n\nIn 2005, eighty students were admitted to the program; in 2006, that number has increased to 85. Currently the entering class size is limited to 90 students. Due to the fact that UW is the only English speaking School of Optometry in Canada, admissions tend to be quite competitive. \n\nIn past years, the average cGPA of the entering class has been 87% (range 80-96) There are 19 pre-requisite courses and labs, all of which must be completed by the term prior to commencing the optometry program. Pre-requisites include: 2 terms of general biology with labs, 1 term of microbiology, 2 terms of physiology, 1 term of general chemistry with lab, 1 term of biochemistry, 1 term of organic chemistry, 2 terms of physics with labs, 1 term of calculus, 1 term of statistics, and 1 term each of introductory psychology, English and ethics. \n\nApplicants are required to write the OAT by August 31st of the year prior to admission. The average Total Science OAT score of successful applicants has been 370 (90th percentile or above). A detailed online application with references must be completed during the fall of the year prior to admission. Applicants are expected to have experience job shadowing an optometrist in addition to community involvement, extracurriculars and volunteering. After an initial review of the candidates, the admissions committee selects applicants for an interview. The interview is held in January at the School of Optometry. The 90 successful candidates are notified via email by the end of March with the admissions decision.\n\nThe School also operates the University of Waterloo Optometry Clinics which are open to staff, students, and faculty of the University of Waterloo and the general public. The clinics are staffed by interns, residents, and graduates of the School operating under the supervision of faculty or other licensed optometrists, allowing optometry students to gain patient care experience as well as providing vision care services to the community. Speciality clinics include ocular health, contact lens, low vision, binocular vision, paediatrics, sports vision and more.\n\nThe main clinic operates from the School of Optometry's building on the University of Waterloo's main campus, with a smaller clinic providing basic services also located at the Health Sciences Campus in downtown Kitchener.\n\nVision science is a cross-discipline study encompassing biology, chemistry, physics, engineering, psychology, and medicine, in both laboratory and clinical settings. The areas of research at the School have been defined as:\n\nThe Optometry building is equipped with research laboratories supported by metal, wood, electronic and optical workshops, a vision science library centre, histology and live-animal housing facilities. Researchers also have controlled access to clinic data and subjects.\n\nThe School boasts two centres of research excellence:\n\n"}
{"id": "853303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=853303", "title": "West Nile virus in the United States", "text": "West Nile virus in the United States\n\nThe West Nile virus quickly spread across the United States after the first reported cases in Queens, New York in 1999. The virus is believed to have entered in an infected bird or mosquito, although there is no clear evidence. The disease spread quickly through infected birds. Mosquitoes spread the disease to mammals. It was mainly noted in horses but also appeared in a number of other species. The first human cases usually followed within three months of the first appearance of infected birds in the area except where cold weather interrupted the mosquito vectors. Since the virus has become widely established in the U.S., an average of 130 deaths a year occurred. \n\nDifferences in surveillance and reporting between health departments and generally increased surveillance as the disease spread cause some problems in direct comparison of the number of cases and the mortality rate. The reported number of infected in 2009 was 720, but the estimated total number of infected the same year was . The true mortality rate is thought to be much lower because most cases are so mild they go undiagnosed. Some estimates put severe cases at only 1% of all cases. It is believed that the elderly or people with weak immune systems are most vulnerable to serious illness or death if bitten by a mosquito infected by West Nile. Most but not all mild cases go undiagnosed. In addition, some more severe but non-neuroinvasive cases are not reported to the CDC. Some mild cases are discovered during blood donation screening. 1,039 West Nile-tainted blood donations were discovered between 2003 and mid-2005. 30 cases of West Nile from blood transfusion were known, the majority from 2002 before blood screening was instituted. \n\nIn the first ten years since the virus arrived in the U.S., over 1,100 deaths occurred with human cases reported from every U.S. state except Maine, Alaska and Hawaii. (Animal cases have been occasionally found in Maine and in Puerto Rico.) In 2012, there was a widespread outbreak with the highest death toll and second-highest total case numbers. Maine and Puerto Rico reported one case each, the first time the disease was reported in those places.\n\nIn August 1999, Dr. Deborah Asnis, an infectious disease specialist at Flushing Hospital Medical Center in Queens, noticed two male patients who were suffering from similar, unusual symptoms. The two patients, aged 60 and 75 respectively, were exhibiting sudden paralysis in their arms and legs, as well as disorientation and high fevers. Lab testing also showed elevated numbers of white blood cells within the spinal fluid of both males. Neither of the patients were responding to antiviral drugs. Possible early hypothesizes included botulism, viral encephalitis, Guillain–Barré syndrome, or meningitis, but none of these illnesses exactly matched the symptoms. Asnis decided to pursue a more concrete diagnosis by contacting authorities and other colleagues.\n\nDr. Asnis contacted Dr. Marcelle Layton, the New York City Department of Health's chief epidemiologist, on Monday, August 23, 1999, to report her patients' symptoms. Layton advised Asnis to send samples of the patients' blood and spinal fluid to the New York State Department of Health in Albany for further analysis. By Friday, August 27, 1999, just four days after Asnis had contacted Layton, two additional patients had been identified in Queens. The number rose to eight by Sunday, August 29, at Flushing Hospital Medical Center and other hospitals in Queens. All of the early patients resided within a few miles of one another. They were also frequent gardeners in the evenings.\nThe Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (C.D.C.) initially identified the mystery illness as St. Louis encephalitis on September 3, 1999. The city of New York began widespread spraying for mosquitos later that same day. However, laboratory testing continued to determine a definitive cause of the symptoms.\n\nThe U.S. federal government revised its diagnosis from St. Louis encephalitis to West Nile virus on September 27, 1999, citing research by Dr. Duane J. Gubler, a C.D.C. expert on arborviruses, as well as several bird deaths in the Bronx, located to the north of Queens.\n\nDr. Deborah Asnis was credited by health experts with the early identification of West Nile virus in the United States. Her actions likely prevented a more widespread outbreak. In their 2003 book, \"The New Killer Diseases: How the Alarming Evolution of Germs Threatens Us All,\" authors Elinor Levy and Mark Fischetti praised Dr. Asnis' response to the symptoms, writing that, \"Asnis did something other doctors might not have bothered to do.\" They elaborated that, \"One of the worst problems with our disease-detection system is that many doctors never report cases of strange symptoms, either because they are unsure of the disease they are facing, they're ignorant of the reporting requirement, or they simply never get around to it. Deborah Asnis was highly conscientious.\"\n\nDuring the years between 1999 and 2010, an estimate of 3 million people have been infected in the United States. Highest incidence rates are observed in states of the central great plains, with South Dakota, Wyoming and North Dakota leading in incidence. \n\nDuring the 2012 West Nile virus outbreak in Texas, USA, 1,868 cases were reported. Male patients, persons >65 years of age, and minorities were at highest risk for neuroinvasive disease. At total of 1,868 cases including 844 (45%) WNND (West Nile neuroinvasive disease) cases and 89 deaths (case-fatality rate 5%). Dates of onset ranged from May 1, 2012, through December 6, 2012. The outbreak peaked during week 33 (mid-August) with 225 reported cases, which is historically the same peak for all reported WNV cases in Texas during 2002–2011. The median time from date of symptom onset to date of official report to TxDSHS was 27 days (range 6–274 days). Of the 254 counties in Texas, 135 (53%) reported a WNV case. The overall incidence rate for the state was 7.8 cases per 100,000 population. Almost half of the cases were reported from the northeastern quadrant of the state, including the Dallas/Fort Worth metroplex (902 [48%] cases): Dallas (396 [21%]), Tarrant (259 [14%]), Collin (64 [3%]), and Denton (183 [10%]) counties. These 4 counties had a combined incidence rate of 16 cases per 100,000 population.\n\nSources: Final Cumulative Maps & Data for 1999–2016 and Preliminary Maps & Data for 2017, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention\n\nThe following maps show the progress of human cases of West Nile across the United States. States are colored according to the percentage of all U.S. West Nile cases they represented in that year. Zero percent (no cases) is colored white; less than 1% is blue; between 1% and 5% is green; between 5% and 10% is yellow, and greater than 10% of cases in a year is red.\n\n"}
{"id": "6132154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6132154", "title": "William Sidney Gilchrist", "text": "William Sidney Gilchrist\n\nDr. William Sidney (\"Sid\") Gilchrist, (1901–1970), born in Pictou, Nova Scotia, Canada, spent 38 years as a medical missionary in Angola (formerly Portuguese West Africa).\n\nSid Gilchrist was the youngest of five children. His ancestry was Scottish and Presbyterian, and he graduated in medicine from Dalhousie University.\n\nTwo years before he completed his medical studies, Sidney Gilchrist married Frances Harriet Killam of Halifax. When he completed his medical studies they volunteered to go abroad as medical missionaries. In 1928 they were appointed to Angola by the Board of Overseas Missions of the United Church of Canada.\n\nBefore proceeding to the vast Portuguese colony on the west coast of Africa, the Gilchrists spent a year in Portugal, studying both Portuguese and the African languages spoken in Angola. During this time Dr. Gilchrist earned a Diploma in Tropical Medicine at the University of Lisbon. The Gilchrists arrived in Angola in 1930 and began their work in a part of the world where there was one doctor for every 100,000 people, where the average life expectancy was 30 years, and where 50% of infants died during the first year of life.\n\nThe Gilchrists were stationed at Camundongo, Angola, from 1930 to 1940, a term interrupted by a two-year furlough in 1935 and 1936. Dr. Gilchrist established a leprosy clinic in Camundongo, and he spent a great deal of time walking or bicycling to out-patient clinics and to native villages to treat sufferers who were unable or unwilling to visit the clinics.\n\nWhen World War II began, he obtained a leave of absence from the Mission Board, enlisted in the Royal Canadian Army Medical Corps, and was attached to the North Nova Scotia Regiment. He remained with the Regiment, first in Nova Scotia and then in England, until 1943, when he was transferred to a field ambulance section and sent to North Africa. In the Mediterranean Theatre, first in North Africa and then in Italy, Dr. Gilchrist was called on both to treat wounded troops in the front lines and to combat disease. With his experience in tropical medicine, he performed especially valuable service in helping to reduce the rate of malaria and dysentery among allied troops in Italy. Dr. Gilchrist was discharged with the rank of Major in May, 1945. Two months later, in recognition of his wartime service, he was made a Member of the Order of the British Empire.\n\nIn 1947, the Gilchrists returned to Angola, this time to Dondi. Medical facilities here were more complete than those at Camundongo, and in addition to a well-equipped hospital, there were two schools; but the shortage of doctors at Dondi was just as acute. Dr. Gilchrist was faced with the task of running the hospital, the leper clinics, the village sanitation programs and the medical assistants' training program by himself.\n\nDr. Gilchrist's next mission station was at Bailundo, where he headed a mission to concentrate on preventive medicine. Within two years of his arrival, a new health-care centre and a maternity centre had been built. Further, he established an extensive system that served more than seventy villages with tuberculosis clinics, malaria surveys, maternity conferences, and training courses for midwives and medical assistants. The emphasis was always on prevention, and Dr. Gilchrist distributed an enormous amount of health-care literature.\n\nBy the early 1960s, the Gilchrists had come to consider Angola their home. Even though a Nova Scotia flag flew over the door of Dr. Gilchrist's office, he felt that, spiritually, he belonged to Africa. His writings show a deep love for all things African. He was a student of the customs and languages of many African peoples, spoke fluent Portuguese and Umbundu, and he developed a deep appreciation for the African landscape and all the creatures that lived on it.\n\nDr. Gilchrist died with his wife and daughter on June 14, 1970, in an automobile accident near Red Deer, Alberta. The couple had nine children, three of whom died in infancy and are buried in Africa. Their daughter Betty, a missionary like her parents, died with them in the automobile accident. Five sons survive, as of this entry.\n\nSidney Gilchrist's desire to help educate Angolan students in medicine was realized after his death, in the foundation of the Angola Memorial Scholarship Fund (), which has contributed to the educational needs of Angolan students, whether within Angola, enrolled in foreign universities, or in refugee camp schools in Namibia during the Angolan Civil War, for the past thirty-five years.\n\nA longer biography of Dr. Sid Gilchrist, originally provided by Dalhousie University Alumni, may be found on the Electric Scotland Website ()\n\nTwo books, one written by him, \"Angola Awake\", and the other about him, \"Salute to Sid\", may be read online, by clicking on their cover jacket illustrations at \n"}
{"id": "624603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=624603", "title": "Winifred Atwell", "text": "Winifred Atwell\n\nUna Winifred Atwell (27 February or 27 April 1910 or 1914 – 28 February 1983) was a Trinidadian pianist who enjoyed great popularity in Britain and Australia from the 1950s with a series of boogie-woogie and ragtime hits, selling over 20 million records. She was the first black person to have a number-one hit in the UK Singles Chart and is still the only female instrumentalist to do so.\n\nAtwell was born in Tunapuna in Trinidad and Tobago. She and her parents lived in Jubilee Street. Her family owned a pharmacy and she trained as a pharmacist herself and was expected to join the family business. She played the piano from a young age and achieved considerable popularity locally. She played for American servicemen at the Air Force base (which is now the main airport). \n\nIt was while playing at the Servicemen's Club at Piarco that someone bet her that she could not play something in the boogie-woogie style that was popular back home in the United States. She went away and wrote \"Piarco Boogie\", which was later renamed \"Five Finger Boogie\".\n\nAtwell left Trinidad in the early 1940s and travelled to the United States to study with Alexander Borovsky and, in 1946, moved to London, where she had gained a place at the Royal Academy of Music. She became the first female pianist to be awarded the academy's highest grading for musicianship. To support her studies, she played rags at London clubs and theatres. These modest beginnings in variety would one day see her topping the bill at the London Palladium. She said later, \"I starved in a garret to get onto concert stages.\"\n\nAtwell attracted attention with an unscheduled appearance at the Casino Theatre, where she substituted for an ill star. She caught the eye of entrepreneur Bernard Delfont, who put her on a long-term contract. She released three discs that were well received. The third, \"Jezebel\", went to the top of the bestseller lists. It was her fourth disc that catapulted her to huge popularity in the UK. A complex arrangement called \"Cross Hands Boogie\" was released to show her virtuoso rhythmic technique, but it was the B-side, a 1900s tune written by George Botsford called \"Black and White Rag\", that was to become a radio standard. Atwell was championed by popular disc jockey Jack Jackson, who introduced her to Decca promotions manager Hugh Mendl, who launched his career as a staff producer at Decca producing Atwell's recordings.\n\n\"Black And White Rag\" started a craze for her honky-tonk style of playing. The rag was originally performed on a concert grand for the occasion, but Atwell felt it did not sound right, and so got her husband to buy a honky tonk piano for 30 shillings, which would then be used for the released version of the song.\n\nAtwell's husband, former stage comedian Lew Levisohn, was vital in shaping her career as a variety star. The two had met in 1946, and married soon after. They were inseparable up to Levisohn's death in Hong Kong in December 1977; they had no children. He had cannily made the choice, for stage purposes, of her playing first a concert grand, then a beaten-up old upright piano. The latter was purchased from a Battersea junk shop for 50 shillings. This became famous as \"my other piano\". It would later feature all over the world, from Las Vegas to the Sydney Opera House, travelling over half a million miles by air throughout Atwell's concert career. While contributing to a posthumous BBC radio appreciation of Atwell's career, Richard Stilgoe revealed that he was now the owner of the famous \"other piano\".\n\nWhen Atwell first came to Britain, she initially earned only a few pounds a week. By the mid-1950s, this had shot up to over $10,000. By 1952, her popularity had spread internationally. Her hands were insured with Lloyd's of London for £40,000 (the policy stipulating that she was never to wash dishes). She signed a record contract with Decca, and her sales were soon 30,000 discs a week. She was by far the biggest selling pianist of her time. Her 1954 hit \"Let's Have Another Party\" was the first piano instrumental to reach number one in the UK Singles Chart. \n\nShe is the only holder of two gold and two silver discs for piano music in Britain, and was the first black artist in the UK to sell a million records. Millions of copies of her sheet music were sold, and she went on to record her best-known hits, including \"Let's Have a Party\", \"Flirtation Waltz\", \"Poor People of Paris\" (which reached number one in the UK Singles Chart in 1956), \"Britannia Rag\" and \"Jubilee Rag\". Her signature \"Black and White Rag\" became famous again in the 1970s as the theme of the BBC snooker programme \"Pot Black\", which also enjoyed great popularity in Australia when screened on the ABC network. It was during this period that she discovered Matt Monro and persuaded Decca to sign him.\n\nAtwell's peak was the second half of the 1950s, during which her concerts drew standing room only crowds in Europe and Australasia. She played three Royal Variety Performances, appeared in every capital city in Europe, and played for over twenty million people. At a private party for Queen Elizabeth II, she was called back for an encore by the monarch herself, who requested \"Roll Out the Barrel\". She became a firm television favourite. She had her own series in Britain. The first of these was \"Bernard Delfont Presents The Winifred Atwell Show\". It ran for ten episodes on the new ITV network from 21 April to 23 June 1956, and the BBC picked up the series the following year. On a third triumphal tour of Australia, she recorded her own Australian television series, screened in 1960–1961. Her career earned her a fortune, and would have extended further to the US but for issues of race. Her breakthrough appearance was to have been on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" in 1956, but on arrival in America she was confronted with problems of selling the show in the south with a British-sounding black woman. The appearance was never recorded.\n\nIn 1955, Atwell arrived in Australia and was greeted as an international celebrity. Her tour broke box-office records on the Tivoli circuit, bringing in £600,000 in box office receipts. She was paid AUS$5,000 a week (the equivalent of around $50,000 today), making her the highest paid star from a Commonwealth country to visit Australia up to that time.\n\nShe toured Australia many times and took on Australian guitarist Jimmy Doyle as her musical director in the 1960s. In 1962 she made a nationwide tour of Britain, with \"The Winifred Atwell Show\". She was accompanied by the Cy Bevan Group, who were with her then current radio series \"Pianorama\". From Monday, 17 September 1962, for one week only, she gave twice nightly performances at the Brighton Hippodrome. Also appearing with her on the same bill was Ronnie Carroll, a radio and television recording star. However, her popularity in Australia led to her settling in Sydney in the 1970s. She became an Australian citizen two years before her death.\n\nKeith Emerson noted her influence on his playing in an interview: \"I've always been into ragtime. In England—and I'm sure Rick Wakeman would concur—we loved Winifred Atwell, a fantastic honky-tonk and ragtime player.\"\n\nAtwell was also a skilled interpreter of classical music. On 1 and 2 December 1954, at London's Kingsway Hall, she made one of the first stereo classical recordings in the UK, with the London Philharmonic Orchestra conducted by Stanford Robinson, of a major repertoire work, the \"Piano Concerto in A-minor, Op. 16\", by Grieg. The two-channel version (engineered by Decca's Roy Wallace) appears not to have been released, but a transfer of the Decca LP (mono) LF1206 has been produced and issued by Pristine Audio as an available download. Another Decca recording by Atwell is George Gershwin's \"Rhapsody in Blue\" with Ted Heath's band, which contained an arrangement in the slow section in the Glenn Miller style.\n\nAtwell bought an apartment on the beach front in the Flightdeck at Collaroy in Sydney, as jumping-off bases for her worldwide performance commitments. She was a member of the Moby Dick Surfer's Club at Whale Beach where she performed regularly in support of the surf club. Enjoying the affection of the public, she was nevertheless keenly aware of prejudice and injustice and was outspoken about racism in Australia. She always donated her services in a charity concert on Sundays, the proceeds going to orphanages and needy children. She spoke out against the third world conditions endured by Australian Aborigines, which made headlines during an outback tour of the country in 1962. Dismissing racism as a factor in her own life, she said she felt she was \"spoiled very much by the public.\" She left her estate to the Australian Guide Dogs for the Blind and a small amount to her goddaughter. However a cousin of Lew Levisohn contested Atwell's will and is reported to have been granted $30,000 from her estate.\n\nAtwell also created headlines in the 1960s with her dieting (slimming from sixteen to twelve stone on what would today be called a protein diet).\n\nIn 1978, she appeared on Australian TV's \"This Is Your Life\" and was admired by the younger generation in Australia in the 1970s. She played her \"other\" piano at the end of the show with a few bars from \"Black and White Rag\" after the piano being in retirement for many years.\n\nThough a dynamic stage personality, Atwell was, in person, a shy, retiring and soft-spoken woman of modesty. Eloquent and intellectual, she was well read and, unlike many in the world of professional showbusiness, keenly interested in and informed about issues and current events. Voracious in her reading habits and a devotee of crosswords, she confessed to an inordinate love of mangoes, a dislike of new shoes, and a keen interest in televised cricket (she backed England). She was also a devout Catholic, who unpretentiously played the organ for her parish church.\n\nAtwell often returned to her native Trinidad, and on one occasion she bought a house in Saint Augustine, a home she adored and later renamed Winvilla and which was later turned into the Pan Pipers Music School by one of her students, Louise McIntosh. In 1968 she had recorded \"Ivory and Steel\", an album of standards and classics, with the Pan Am Jet North Stars Steel Orchestra (director/arranger Anthony Williams), and supported musical scholarships in the West Indies. In the early 1980s, Atwell's sense of loss following her husband's death made her consider returning to Trinidad to live, but she found the weather too hot.\n\nAtwell suffered a stroke in 1980. She officially retired on \"The Mike Walsh Show\", then Australia's highest rating television variety programme, in 1981. She categorically stated that she would retire and not return as a public performer, and that she had had an excellent career. Her last TV performance was \"Choo Choo Samba\" followed with a medley of \"Black and White Rag\" and \"Twelfth Street Rag\". Her only non-private performances from this point were as an organist in her parish church at Narrabeen. In 1983, following an electrical fire that destroyed her Narrabeen home, she suffered a heart attack and died while staying with friends in Seaforth. She is buried beside husband Lew Levisohn in South Gundurimba Private Cemetery in northern New South Wales, just outside Lismore.\n\nIn 1969 she was awarded Trinidad and Tobago's national award, the Gold Hummingbird Medal, for her achievements in music.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34306231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34306231", "title": "Workplace health promotion", "text": "Workplace health promotion\n\nWorkplace health promotion is the combined efforts of employers, employees, and society to improve the mental and physical health and well-being of people at work. The term workplace health promotion denotes a comprehensive analysis and design of human and organizational work levels with the strategic aim of developing and improving health resources in an enterprise.\n\nThe World Health Organization has prioritized the workplace as a setting for health promotion because of the large potential audience and influence on all spheres of a person's life. The Luxembourg Declaration provides that health and well-being of employees at work can be achieved through a combination of:\n\nWorkplace health promotion combines alleviation of health risk factors with enhancement of health strengthening factors and seeks to further develop protection factors and health potentials. Workplace health promotion is complementary to the discipline of occupational safety and health, which consists of protecting workers from hazards.\n\nSuccessful workplace health promotion strategies include the principles of participation, project management, integration, and comprehensiveness:\nA report by the European Agency for Safety and Health at Work notes growing evidence that significant cost savings can be made by implementing workplace health promotion strategies, and over 90% of United States workplaces with greater than 50 employees have health promotion programs in place.\n\nStrategies for workplace health promotion need to be inclusive to account for diversity in the workforce, and behavioral economics is a key tool for implementing workplace health programs. The United States Department of Health and Human Services includes five strategic guidelines for workplace health promotion in its Healthy People 2010 initiative. These include:\nMore generally, workplace health promotion efforts are implemented at three functional levels, including: \nIn most instances physical activity interventions conform to Level II of this framework and may also include elements from Level III. Incentive-based Fitness Rewards Programs (FRPs) aim to influence employee behaviors and thereby conform to Level I.\n\nApproximately half of all current workplace health promotion programs are based on physical activity interventions given the relative ease by which employers can advocate such efforts to employees. Employer-sponsored activity interventions in the form of team sports originated as early as the 17th century in the United Kingdom, however, most 21st century interventions rely on employer sponsorship of employee access to health and fitness facilities. Employee convenience to sponsored fitness facilities strongly influences program participation, and facilities located near employee locations of residence hold lower time costs, receive increased use, and yield better program and health outcomes. Women frequently demonstrate lower participation in workplace exercise programs than men, and young, single individuals are often more predisposed to pursue employer-sponsored physical activity initiatives. In many cases, exercise-based workplace health promotion programs struggle to attract those who would benefit the most from such fitness efforts, including aging, sedentary, blue-collar, female, or less-educated employees.\n\nThe sedentary nature of many modern workplaces increases negative metabolic risk factors such as high body mass index (BMI), waist circumference, and blood pressure and elevated fasting glucose and triglyceride levels. Breaking up long periods of sedentary time is shown to improve these risks. Specifically, utilization of portable pedal exercise machines in office environments has been shown to improve employee health, and use was demonstrated feasible during working hours. Interventions using pedometers to influence employee behavior, decrease the duration of sedentary periods, and increase total movement during the work day have also proven successful. Smartphone applications and workplace signs promoting stair use are known to improve employee health, and many employers are now investing in wearable technologies to encourage employees to monitor physical activity. Workplace Tai Chi programs have also proven effective as a health intervention and means of reducing absenteeism, particularly in older workers. Despite these efforts, many health promotion programs struggle with poor participation, and the introduction of incentives is shown to improve employee involvement.\n\nTo encourage physical activity among the workforce, many employers offer financial incentives to employees through Fitness Rewards Programs (FRPs). Seeing that exercise and dieting produce immediate discomfort, the benefits of weight loss are often not noticeable in the short-term, and many people seek long-term health but succumb to near-term temptations of unhealthy eating and inactivity (hyperbolic discounting), maintaining employee involvement in wellness programs is difficult. To solve these problems of immediacy, salience, and hyperbolic discounting FRPs offer financial incentives to employees for healthy behaviors. Though lack of participation remains a problem even among well crafted FRPs, attrition is not random and greater weight loss success is associated with a reduction in later program dropout probability.\n\nThe positive impact of workplace health promotion programs on productivity is widely discussed. The impact of workplace health promotion on absenteeism is substantial since productivity is impossible if an employee is absent. However, the effects of presenteeism are also significant, and working while sick is estimated to cost the United States economy more than $150 billion per year. Absenteeism is estimated to cost the average employer $660 annually per employee. Based on productivity costs, employees experiencing negative health conditions or at risk of developing impaired health cost employers up to $1601 more than healthy employees per year. Improvements in productivity and absenteeism following implementation of workplace health promotion programs can annually save employers $15.6 for every one dollar spent on health initiatives. More generally, employee health care costs and absentee day costs decrease by $3.27 and $2.73, respectively, for every dollar spent on workplace health promotion. In some cases, employer-based health programs have been shown to yield no reduction in health care spending or employer insurance outlay.\n\nRelevant to health outcomes, workplace health promotion programs have demonstrated numerous short and long term benefits. Significantly, workplace physical activity interventions are shown to improve employee fitness, activity behavior, unhealthy lipid levels, work attendance, and job stress, and workplace exercise programs are known to reduce supervisor stress and abusive supervision of subordinates, increasing productivity. Additional improvements have been noted following workplace health programs in injury incidence, blood pressure, cholesterol levels, body mass index, cardiovascular disease risk, dynamic muscle performance, and maximal oxygen consumption. Some improvements vary by gender, with men often experiencing more consequential improvements in body mass index than women. Workplace health promotion is also known to improve the “perceived health status” of employees, enhancing productivity and improving health program participation.\n\nSummarily, the expected outcomes of an ideal workplace health promotion program include:\n\n"}
{"id": "15485716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15485716", "title": "Young carer", "text": "Young carer\n\nA young carer is a young person who cares, unpaid, for a friend or family member who has any type of illness, disability or addiction and cannot manage without the young carer's support. There are estimated to be around 700,000 young carers in the UK which is approximately 1 in every 12 teenagers and round 2 in every classroom. The roles taken on by a young carer are exhaustive and are carried out often behind closed doors on top of the normal pressures of a young persons life. Responsibilities may range from providing practical support such as helping to cook, clean or wash, giving personal care, emotional support, providing medication or helping with financial chores.\n\nThe person they care for may be a parent, a sibling, another family member or a friend, but does not necessarily live in the same house as them. The care they give may be practical, physical, and emotional.\n\nThe terms \"disability\" and \"long-term illness\" do not mean just a physical disability or illness, but also cover, for example, mental illness, learning disability, or drug addiction, frailty or old age.\n\nThere are support programs to assist young carers both emotionally and financially with day-to-day tasks and making decisions. These programs offer face-to-face counselling, online programs, and phone helplines. Some support programmes for young carers have been cut due to austerity. The amount of support young carers get varies from area to area and is subject to a postcode lottery.\n\n\n"}
