{"id": "1627281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1627281", "title": "Abraham Flexner", "text": "Abraham Flexner\n\nAbraham Flexner (November 13, 1866 – September 21, 1959) was an American educator, best known for his role in the 20th century reform of medical and higher education in the United States and Canada.\n\nAfter founding and directing a college-preparatory school in his hometown of Louisville, Kentucky, Flexner published a critical assessment of the state of the American educational system in 1908 titled \"The American College: A Criticism\". His work attracted the Carnegie Foundation to commission an in-depth evaluation into 155 medical schools in the US and Canada. It was his resultant self-titled \"Flexner Report\", published in 1910, that sparked the reform of medical education in the United States and Canada. Flexner was also a founder of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, which brought together some of the greatest minds in history to collaborate on intellectual discovery and research.\n\nFlexner was born in Louisville, Kentucky on November 13, 1866. He was the sixth of nine children born to German Jewish immigrants, Ester and Moritz Flexner. He was the first in his family to complete high school and go on to college. In 1886, at age 19, Flexner completed a Bachelor of Arts in classics at Johns Hopkins University, where he studied for only two years. In 1905, he pursued graduate studies in psychology at Harvard University, and at the University of Berlin. He did not, however, complete work on an advanced degree at either institution.\n\nFlexner had three brothers named Jacob, Bernard and Simon Flexner. He also had a sister named Rachel Flexner.\n\nThe success of Abraham Flexner's experimental schooling allowed him to help finance Simon Flexner's medical education at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine. He proceeded to become a pathologist, bacteriologist and a medical researcher employed by the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research from 1901 to 1935.\nFlexner also financed his sister's undergraduate studies at Bryn Mawr College. Jacob ran a drugstore and used the profits from selling the establishment to attend medical school. He then practiced as a physician in Louisville. Bernard pursued a career in law and later practiced in both Chicago and New York.\n\nIn 1896, Flexner married a former student of his school, Anne Laziere Crawford. She was a teacher who soon became a successful playwright and children's author. The success of her play \"Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch\" (based on the 1901 novel) funded Flexner's studies at Harvard and his year abroad at European universities. The couple had two daughters Jean and Eleanor. Jean went on to become one of the original employees of the United States Division of Labor Standards. Eleanor Flexner became an independent scholar and pioneer of women's studies.\n\nFlexner grew up in an Orthodox Jewish family, however, early on he became a religious agnostic.\n\nIn addition to contributions by his brother Simon, their nephew, Louis Barkhouse Flexner, was founding director of the Mahoney Institute of Neurological Sciences at the University of Pennsylvania and a former editor of the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences.\n\nFlexner died in Falls Church, Virginia, in 1959 at 92 years of age. He was buried in Cave Hill Cemetery in Louisville, Kentucky.\n\nAfter graduating from Johns Hopkins University in two years with a degree in classics, Flexner returned to Louisville to teach classics at Louisville Male High School. Four years later, Flexner founded a private school in which he would test his growing ideas about education. Flexner opposed the standard model of education that focused on mental discipline and a rigid structure. Moreover, \"Mr. Flexner's School\" did not give out traditional grades, used no standard curriculum, refused to impose examinations on students, and kept no academic record of students. Instead, it promoted small learning groups, individual development, and a more hands-on approach to education. Graduates of his school were soon accepted at leading colleges, and his teaching style began to attract considerable attention.\n\nIn 1908, Flexner published his first book, \"The American College\". Strongly critical of many aspects of American higher education, it denounced, in particular, the university lecture as a method of instruction. According to Flexner, lectures enabled colleges to \"handle cheaply by wholesale a large body of students that would be otherwise unmanageable and thus give the lecturer time for research.\" In addition, Flexner was concerned about the chaotic condition of the undergraduate curriculum and the influence of the research culture of the university. Neither contributed to the mission of the college to address the whole person. He feared that \"research had largely appropriated the resources of the college, substituting the methods and interest of highly specialized investigation for the larger objects of college teaching.\"\n\nHis book attracted the attention of Henry Pritchett, president of the Carnegie Foundation, who was looking for someone to lead a series of studies of professional education. The book consistently cited Pritchett in discussions of views on educational reform, and the two soon arranged to meet through the then-president of Johns Hopkins University, Ira Remsen. Although Flexner had never set foot inside a medical school, he was Pritchett's first choice to lead a study of American medical education, and soon joined the research staff at the Carnegie Foundation in 1908. Although not a physician himself, Flexner was selected by Pritchett for his writing ability and his disdain for traditional education.\n\nIn 1910, Flexner published the \"Flexner Report\", which examined the state of American medical education and led to far-reaching reform in the training of doctors. The \"Flexner Report\" led to the closure of most rural medical schools and all but two African-American medical colleges in the United States, given his adherence to germ theory, in which he argued that if not properly trained and treated, African-Americans and the poor posed a health threat to middle/upper class whites. His position was:\nThe practice of the Negro doctor will be limited to his own race, which in its turn will be cared for better by good Negro physicians than by poor white ones. But the physical well-being of the Negro is not only of moment to the Negro himself. Ten million of them live in close contact with sixty million whites. Not only does the Negro himself suffer from hookworm and tuberculosis; he communicates them to his white neighbors, precisely as the ignorant and unfortunate white contaminates him. Self-protection not less than humanity offers weighty counsel in this matter; self-interest seconds philanthropy. The Negro must be educated not only for his sake, but for ours. He is, as far as the human eye can see, a permanent factor in the nation.\n\nIronically, one of the schools, Louisville National Medical College, was located in Flexner's hometown. In response to the report, some schools fired senior faculty members in a process of reform and renewal.\n\nFlexner soon conducted a related study of medical education in Europe. According to Bonner (2002), Flexner's work came to be \"nearly as well known in Europe as in America.\" With funding from the Rockefeller Foundation, Flexner \"...exerted a decisive influence on the course of medical training and left an enduring mark on some of the nation's most renowned schools of medicine.\" Bonner worried that \"the imposition of rigid standards by accrediting groups was making the medical curriculum a monstrosity,\" with medical students moving through it with \"little time to stop, read, work or think.\" Bonner (2002) calls Flexner \"the severest critic and the best friend American medicine ever had.\"\n\nBetween 1912 and 1925, Flexner served on the Rockefeller Foundation's General Education Board, and after 1917 was its secretary. With the help of the board, he founded another experimental school, the Lincoln School, which opened in 1917, in cooperation with the faculty at Teachers College of Columbia University.\n\nThe Bambergers, heirs to a department store fortune, were set on creating a medical school in Newark, New Jersey that gave admissions preference to Jewish applicants in an effort to fight the rampant prejudice against Jews in the medical profession at that time. Flexner informed them that a teaching hospital and other faculties required a successful school. A few months later, in June 1930, he had persuaded the Bamberger siblings and their representatives to fund instead the development of an Institute for Advanced Study.\n\nThe Institute was headed by Flexner from 1930 to 1939 and it possessed a renowned faculty including Kurt Gödel and John von Neumann.\n\nDuring his time there, Flexner helped bring over many European scientists who would likely have suffered persecution by the rising Nazi government. This included Albert Einstein, who arrived at the Institute in 1933 under Flexner's directorship.\n\nIn his 1930 \"Universities: American, English, German\", Flexner returned to his earlier interest in the direction and purpose of the American university, attacking distractions from serious learning, such as intercollegiate athletics, student government, and other student activities.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17754591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17754591", "title": "Academic grading in Greece", "text": "Academic grading in Greece\n\nThere are four grading systems (or scales) in Greece – four different GPA – one for higher education, one for secondary education, and two for primary education (grades 3 to 4 and 5 to 6).\n\nIn 1st and 2nd grades in Greek primary schools there is only descriptive evaluation, with no grades included. In the 3rd and 4th grade grades are only letters (Α-Δ) and in 5th and 6th grades numbers ranging from 1-10 are used.\n\nThe grading system's range is widened in secondary school and ranges from 1 to 20.\n\n\nThe table below depicts the Greek Grading system while illustrates approximately how the Grades are compared with ECTS, US and UK grades:\nFor the National Technical University of Athens (polytehnio) the above grades are different:\n9-10 is \"excellent\", \n7-9 is \"very good\", \n5-7 is \"good\", \n0-4.9 is \"fail\".\n\nMost of the degrees can be equivalent to a bachelor's degree with honours BSc(Hons) / BEng(Hons) since all courses are 4 to 5 years and most of them professionally accredited. \nAll modules, from all years, must be passed with a minimum grade of 5.00 (50%) in order for a degree to be assessed/awarded and there is currently no limit in resits. \nThe classification (Ἀριστα, Λίαν Καλὠς, Καλὠς) is derived from the overall credit-weighted average for all modules including the 'diplomatiki' (university/polytechnic) or 'ptichiaki' (TEI). (dissertation/project)\n\n"}
{"id": "28579404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28579404", "title": "Addis Continental Institute of Public Health", "text": "Addis Continental Institute of Public Health\n\nAddis Continental Institute of Public Health (AC-IPH) is an independent center for public health research and training. It was established in mid-2006 by health experts to provide technical services and training in major health issues in Africa. The Institute is based in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. And currently has opened a new branch in Bahirdar, Ethiopia.\n\n\nThe Institute has core technical experts and a number of associate consultants in the various fields of health and social sciences. The Institute has over 45 full-time technical and administrative staff, and over 80 trained field research workers. The data management unit is also staffed with persons.\n\nACIPH is located in Addis Ababa in Kirkos sub-city. The office is equipped with computers and printers; photocopy machine; communication services including high speed WiFi Internet, telephone and fax; data and documentation center; and vehicles. The Institute has about four floor space on a modern building (ACIPH building located in Yeka Subcity adjacent to \"Ayat\" compound, Zone 8; Road 8). A training/workshop/seminar rooms with visual aid facilities that can accommodate more than 100 persons is available. The Institute documentation center has reference materials.\n\nThe Institute can offer any professional/technical services and trainings in the area of public health on demand basis. Some of the activities are:\n\nThe Institute derives its finance from the services and trainings it offers. Research and development grants could be another source of revenue.\n\n"}
{"id": "1340846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1340846", "title": "Asynchronous learning", "text": "Asynchronous learning\n\nAsynchronous learning is a student-centered teaching method that uses online learning resources to facilitate information sharing outside the constraints of time and place among a network of people. Asynchronous learning is based on constructivist theory, a student-centered approach that emphasizes the importance of peer-to-peer interactions. This approach combines self-study with asynchronous interactions to promote learning, and it can be used to facilitate learning in traditional on-campus education, distance education, and continuing education. This combined network of learners and the electronic network in which they communicate are referred to as an asynchronous learning network.\n\nThe online learning resources used to support asynchronous learning include email, electronic mailing lists, threaded conferencing systems, online discussion boards, wikis, and blogs. Course management systems such as CampusCruiser LMS, Desire2Learn, Blackboard, WebCT, Moodle, and Sakai, have been developed to support online interaction, allowing users to organize discussions, post and reply to messages, and upload and access multimedia. These asynchronous forms of communication are sometimes supplemented with synchronous components, including text and voice chat, telephone conversations, videoconferencing, and even meetings in virtual spaces such as \"Second Life\", where discussions can be facilitated among groups of students.\n\nThe roots of asynchronous learning are in the end of the 19th century, when formalized correspondence education (or distance learning) first took advantage of the postal system to bring physically remote learners into the educational fold. The 1920s and 1930s saw the introduction of recorded audio, desynchronizing broadcasting and revolutionizing the mass dissemination of information. The first significant distribution of standardized educational content took place during World War II; the branches of the US military produced hundreds of training films, with screenings numbering in the millions.\n\nOnline asynchronous learning began with schools' and universities' substantial investment in computer technology in the early 1980s. With seminal applications such as Seymour Papert's Logo programming language, students were able to learn at their own pace, free from the synchronous constraints of a classroom lecture. As computers entered more households and schools began connecting to the nascent Internet, asynchronous learning networks began to take shape. These networks augmented existing classroom learning and led to a new correspondence model for solitary learners.\n\nUsing the web, students could access resources online and communicate asynchronously using email and discussion boards. The 1990s saw the arrival of the first telecampuses, with universities offering courses and entire degree plans through a combination of synchronous and asynchronous online instruction. Today, advanced multimedia and interactivity have enhanced the utility of asynchronous learning networks and blurred the divide between content-creator and content-consumer. New tools like class blogs and wikis are creating ever-richer opportunities for further asynchronous interaction and learning.\n\nThough the social relationships integral to group learning can be developed through asynchronous communication, this development tends to take longer than in traditional, face-to-face settings. The establishment of an asynchronous community takes time and effort and tends to follow a projected course of five stages, as described by Waltonen-Moore et al.:\n\n\nAsynchronous communities that progress efficiently through these stages tend to share at least three common attributes:\n\nFirst, the community has an active facilitator who monitors, guides, and nurtures the discourse. Unguided communities tend to have difficulty progressing beyond the second stage of development, because group members can become distracted from the community's intended purpose.\n\nSecond, rather than seeking to take on the role of an instructor or disseminator of knowledge, the facilitator recognizes that knowledge is an individual construct that is developed through interaction with other group members. Thus, facilitators within successful communities tend not to be pedantic, but supportive.\n\nAnd third, successful asynchronous communities permit a certain amount of leniency for play within their discourse. That is, communities that insist upon being overly stringent on etiquette and make no room for the social development that comes from play seem to drive away participants. Rather than enriching discourse on the targeted topic, such attitudes have a negative impact on group identity development and individual comfort levels which will, in turn, decrease overall involvement.\n\nOnline learning requires a shift from a teacher-centered environment to a student-centered environment where the instructor must take on multiple new roles. The constructivist theory that supports asynchronous learning demands that instructors become more than dispensers of knowledge; it requires that they become instructional designers, facilitators, and assessors of both grades and their teaching methods.\n\nAs instructional designers, emphasis is placed on establishing the curriculum, methods and the media through which the content will be effectively delivered. Once the design is in place and executed, the instructor must then facilitate the communication and direct the learning. Instructors typically have to be proficient with elements of electronic communication, as asynchronous courses are reliant on email and discussion board communications and the instruction methods are reliant on virtual libraries of e-documents, graphics, and audio files. Establishing a communal spirit is vital, requiring much time commitment from the instructor, who must spend time reading, assessing, reinforcing, and encouraging the interaction and learning that is happening.\n\nThe student-centered nature of asynchronous online learning requires students to be actively involved with and take more responsibility for their own learning. In addition to their normal duties as learners, students are required to:\n\n\nAsynchronous learning's greatest benefit to students is the freedom it gives them to access the course and its instructional materials at any time they choose, and from any location, with an Internet connection. This allows for accessibility for diverse student populations, ranging from traditional, on-campus students, to working professionals, to international students in foreign countries.\n\nAsynchronous learning environments provide a \"high degree of interactivity\" between participants who are separated both geographically and temporally and afford students many of the social benefits of face-to-face interaction. Since students can express their thoughts without interruption, they have more time to reflect on and respond to class materials and their classmates than in a traditional classroom.\n\nResearch shows that the time required to initially design an asynchronous course is comparable to that of a traditional synchronous course. However, most asynchronous courses have the potential to reach far more students than a traditional course and course-wide updates or modifications can be disseminated far more quickly and efficiently than traditional lecture models.\n\nSchifter notes that a perceived additional workload is a significant barrier to faculty participation in distance education and asynchronous learning, but that perception can be mitigated through training and experience with teaching in these environments.\n\nAnother advantage of asynchronous learning (and, as technology develops, many synchronous learning environments) is that there is a record of nearly everything that occurs in that environment. All materials, correspondence, and interactions can be electronically archived. Participants can go back and review course materials, lectures, and presentations, as well as correspondence between participants. This information is generally available at any time to course participants.\n\nAsynchronous learning environments pose several challenges for instructors, institutions, and students. Course development and initial setup can be costly. Institutions must provide a computer network infrastructure, including servers, audio/visual equipment, software, and the technical support needed to develop and maintain asynchronous learning environments. Technical support includes initial training and setup, user management, data storage and recovery, as well as hardware repairs and updates. Research indicates faculty members who are hesitant to teach in asynchronous learning environments are so because of a lack of technical support provided by their institutions. However, for faculty to teach successfully in an asynchronous learning environment, they must be technically adept and comfortable enough with the technological tools to optimize their use.\n\nTo participate in asynchronous learning environments, students must also have access to computers and the Internet. Although personal computers and web access are becoming more and more pervasive every day, this requirement can be a barrier to entry for many students and instructors. Students must also have the computer/technology skills required to participate in the asynchronous learning program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32233968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32233968", "title": "BTS Group", "text": "BTS Group\n\nBTS Group AB (BTS) is a global strategy implementation consulting firm founded in 1986. The company provides strategy alignment and execution consulting services and designs customized business simulations, digital technology, and assessments to develop business acumen, leadership, and sales capabilities.\n\nBTS has several practice areas - Strategy Execution, Business Acumen, Leadership Development, Sales Training, Innovation, Coaching and Assessments. The company serves banking, biotech and pharmaceutical, consumer products, insurance, manufacturing, oil and gas, professional services, retail, technology, and telecommunications sectors.\n\nHeadquartered in Stockholm, Sweden, the firm has over 600 employees across 34 global offices. The company's client base is spread across 53 countries and includes 60 of the U.S. Fortune 100 and over 30 of the Global Fortune 100. BTS customers include companies such as Accenture, Aetna, Unilever, AT&T, Chevron, Coca-Cola, Ericsson, Google, GSK, Telstra, HSBC, Hewlett-Packard, Mondelez, Salesforce.com, Sodexo, Toyota, and others.\n\nBTS is a public company listed on the NASDAQ-OMX Stockholm trading under the symbol BTS B.\n\nBTS was founded in 1986 by Henrik Ekelund, current President and Chief Executive Officer, with the support of three investors from one of Scandinavia’s prominent strategic consulting firms. The firm focused on supporting clients’ efforts to implement strategy by focusing on the human capital part of the execution equation.\n\nIn February 2005, BTS acquired Strategic Management Group, Inc. (SMG). The acquisition enabled the firm to create a broader base for future organic growth and deepen its expertise. In September 2006, BTS acquired The Real Learning Company (RLC) and Advantage Performance Group, Inc. (APG). The acquisitions consolidated a highly fragmented market and expanded the company's existing sales and leadership programs. In July 2013, BTS acquired Wizer A/S to expand the firm's digital capabilities and compliment its existing portfolio. In October 2014, BTS acquired Fenestra Inc., a global provider of premier technology-enhanced assessment and leadership development centers and solutions. In March 2015, BTS acquired AVO Vision, a South African-based company focused on corporate learning and development as well as community-worksite education. The acquisition expanded the firm's global reach and expertise in the leadership development sphere as AVO Vision's core offerings focused on leadership, management, self-mastery, and sales execution skills. In 2016, BTS Group acquired Cesim Italia Srl and Design Innovation Srl based in Milan, Italy to strengthen its Southern European position.\n\nIn September 2015, BTS launched a new brand, logo, tagline (\"Strategy made personal\") and website, designed in partnership with UK-based Saffron Brand Consultants.\n\nBTS supports executive management in the areas of strategy transformation, business and financial decision-making, key performance indicator alignment, merger integration, cross business-unit collaboration, innovation and customer understanding and relations. Client engagement teams typically consist of a combination of industry experts, capability specialists and professionals with local market knowledge. The company helps organizations in the implementation of change and the improvement of profitability through the following practice areas:\n\n\nIn 2017, BTS was named a Top 20 Leadership Training Company by Training Industry. The media publication also recognized BTS in 2016 as a Leadership Training Company to Watch and a Top 20 Sales Training Company. In 2015, Training Industry listed BTS as one of the top 20 Sales Training Organizations. In 2014, BTS was named a Top 20 Sales Training Organizations and one of the Top 20 Gamification Companies. In 2013, BTS was acknowledged by Training Industry as one of the top 20 Leadership Development companies for the second year in a row.\n\nIn 2016, BTS received two Brandon Hall Awards for client partnerships - a Gold with Intuit for the Best Unique or Innovative Leadership Development Program, and a Silver with MetLife for the Best Advance in Assessment Utilization to Guide Talent Decisions Category. BTS received a Silver 2013 Brandon Hall Group Excellence in Learning Award for their partnership with AT&T to create the AT&T Sales and Service Center Simulation. BTS client Newell Rubbermaid was awarded Sales Training Program of the Year by Stevie Awards for their customized solution.\n\nBTS Asia Pacific received a 2016 HR Vendors of the Year Award, hosted by Human Resources Magazine, in the Best Leadership Development Consultant Category.\n\nSince 2010, BTS USA has partnered with Rainforest Trust on sustainability campaigns to preserve threatened rainforests. In 2015, BTS sponsored the second round of the Rainforest Trust #SkiptoSave campaign supporting Rainforest Trust's 2020 Initiative designed to protect 20 million acres of rainforest by 2020.\n\nIn partnership with the Sparkassesntiftung fur international Kooperation (Savings Banks Foundation for International Cooperation), BTS has created a business simulation program to teach business and financial acumen in developing nations. As of June 2015, such programs had been held for more than 10,000 participants in 12 countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "12250137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12250137", "title": "British Association of Teachers of Dancing", "text": "British Association of Teachers of Dancing\n\nThe British Association of Teachers of Dance (BATD) is a UK-based dance examination board, with its Head Office in Glasgow, Scotland. The officially recognised date for the formation of the society is 30 November 1892, making it the first professional dance organization of its kind in the United Kingdom, and the second oldest in the world.\n\nFounded in 1892, the BATD became the first UK dance association of its kind to encourage the organisation of dance professionals into an organised society. The association may have been in operation earlier than this, however 30 November 1892 is the first recorded date that can be established beyond doubt (see BATD website).\n\nThere were 24 founder members recorded in 1892, with an estimated 3,500 members registered by the year 1999.\n\nThe British Association is represented in the following countries:\nThe BATD is represented in many other countries, but this list shows those countries where there are a notable number of registered members or where regular meetings of the association are held.\n\nThe Society is managed by a President, Vice-Presidents, Trustees Treasurer and an Executive Council. These are all elected positions, which are balloted at the societies annual conference.\nThere are various other regional or district committees, which organize meetings, lectures, seminars and other events for the membership in their district. These positions are nominated and elected by the membership of each district and include a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, Secretary, Treasurer and Marshall.\nMembers of the society can seek higher office, first at regional level then at the Executive level.\n\nDiane Barron was the president of the Association from 2001 to 2005.\n\nThe primary work of the society is to provide examination syllabi in various dance styles. There are a number of branches within the society that each specialise in a specific dance subject. They are:\nA range of examinations and awards are available in each dance discipline for children of all ages. These are typically organized into grades or medal tests, with the work being assessed by a BATD registered examiner. As well as these examinations for children, the society also offers training for adults and teacher training for dance professionals who wish to become a registered teacher with the BATD.\n\n"}
{"id": "14177992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14177992", "title": "Center for Railroad Photography &amp; Art", "text": "Center for Railroad Photography &amp; Art\n\nThe Center for Railroad Photography & Art, in Madison, Wisconsin, was incorporated as a nonprofit corporation in Wisconsin on December 9, 1997, to inform “the public about railroad photography and art through education, research and public service programs.” The Center was fostered by John Gruber, a writer with a lifelong interest in railroads and their history who'd had the hobby of photographing railroads since 1960. The Railway and Locomotive History Society honored Gruber in 1994 with a lifetime achievement award in railroad photography.\n\nWhile the Center selectively collects high-quality photographs and works of art related to railroading and railroad workers, it has no museum, but rather collaborates with archives and public museums in creating programs with a national outreach. These programs include exhibitions, publications, conferences, a website, and an Internet archive (railroadheritage.org).\n\nThe Center’s first exhibition, Railroads and Photography: 150 Years of Great Images, opened in 1999 at Railfair at the California State Railroad Museum in Sacramento, later traveling to Altoona, Pennsylvania; Madison, Wisconsin; Lake Forest and Champaign, Illinois; St. Louis, Missouri; Carson City and Ely, Nevada; and Kennesaw, Georgia. Beginning in 2003, with support from the North American Railroad Foundation, the Center created seven photography exhibitions related to “Representations of Railroad Work, Past and Present,” which were shown on both coasts and in the Midwest, notably at Grand Central Terminal in New York City and the state capitol in Madison, Wisconsin. A summary report, It’s Work, resulted.\n\nIn 2006, the Center mounted an exhibition of photography and watercolors by the noted artist, Ted Rose, who was asked by the U.S. Postal Service to create railroad-themed U.S. postage stamps. The exhibition, which was shown at the Haggerty Museum of Marquette University in Milwaukee and the California State Railroad Museum, was accompanied by a catalog that summarizes Rose’s life and career. The Center also collaborated with Thomas H. Garver to prepare an exhibition (at the Southeast Missouri Regional Museum in Cape Girardeau and the California State Railroad Museum in Sacramento) about the photographs of O. Winston Link, the famed railroad photographer and sound recorder.\n\nBesides the catalogs associated with exhibitions, the Center has produced twenty issues of the journal Railroad Heritage, which began in 2000. Early issues carried articles about noted photographers and artists, plus news of contemporary events. Others have been devoted to conference proceedings, the role of women in railroading, representations of work in railroad photography and art, and the photography of Lucius Beebe and Charles Clegg.\n\nSince 2003, the Center has sponsored annual conferences and an awards program for contemporary railroad photography. In 2006, conferences in Milwaukee and in College Station, Texas, observed the centennial of the diesel locomotive with historical presentations and discussions of the diesel’s effect on railroad art. Public programs have accompanied each exhibition.\n\nIn 2007, again with support from the North American Railway Foundation, the Center launched a descriptive website, “railroadheritage.org.” It reproduces images related to railroading from the 1840s to the present, coupled with explanatory texts that describe the images’ content and their historical, technological, and aesthetic importance. The images are drawn from the Center’s own collections and from significant public and private collections around the country. A number of museums and archives are collaborating in the effort. In 2008, the Center extracted thirty-two images from railroadheritage.org and created \"American Railroad History in a Nutshell,\" a feature on the site that depicts and describes, in a digest form, the importance of railroads, their development, and some social historical elements of railroads and railroading.\n\n"}
{"id": "57894175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57894175", "title": "Conferenza dei Rettori delle Università Italiane", "text": "Conferenza dei Rettori delle Università Italiane\n\nThe Conferenza dei Rettori delle Università Italiane (CRUI; English: Conference of Italian University Rectors) is an association of public and private universities in Italy. It began in 1963 as a private organization, later becoming an official advisor to the government. The supporting Fondazione CRUI (foundation) formed in 2001. CRUI operates from headquarters at the Piazza Rondanini in the Sant'Eustachio rione of Rome.\n\nCRUI has developed several guidelines for policy and implementation of scholarly open access publishing.\n\nSince 2009 it has been the subject of numerous controversies due to a supposed political role and in support of the interests of the category of the rectors that compose it, despite the nature of university association. In particular, it was criticized for its support for the draft of the 1905 Law by Minister Gelmini. The criticisms have sometimes come from some of the rectors themselves.\n\nThe following men have served as presidents of the group.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6967581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6967581", "title": "Curriculum framework", "text": "Curriculum framework\n\nA curriculum framework is an organized plan or set of standards or learning outcomes that defines the content to be learned in terms of clear, definable standards of what the student should know and be able to do.\n\nA curriculum framework is part of an outcome-based education or standards based education reform design. The framework is the second step, defining clear, high standards which will be achieved by all students. The curriculum is then aligned to the standards, and students are assessed against the standards. As compared with traditional education which is concerned only about delivering content, a standards based education reform system promises that all will succeed if all are held to high expectations. When the standards are reached, there will be no achievement gap where some groups are allowed to score lower than others, or the disabled are offered different opportunities than others. All will meet world class standards and be qualified for good colleges and trained for good jobs which pay good wages. In a traditional education system, the curriculum was defined by those who created textbooks rather than government bodies which assembled groups of stakeholders to create standards based on consensus of what students should know and be able to do.\n\nIn some states, curriculum frameworks have been adopted based on traditional academic standards rather than outcome-based constructivist standards, but many frameworks were originally or still based on student-centered learning and constructivism such as reform mathematics, whole language and Inquiry-based Science which have been controversial in some states and communities. High school graduation examinations tie awarding of diplomas to demonstration of meeting the standards set out in the frameworks.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21222958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21222958", "title": "Defence Survive, Evade, Resist, Extract Training Organisation", "text": "Defence Survive, Evade, Resist, Extract Training Organisation\n\nThe Defence Survive, Evade, Resist, Extract (SERE) Training Organisation, otherwise known as DSTO, is a military training organisation based at RAF St. Mawgan, Cornwall In the United Kingdom. DSTO is a tri-service organisation and trains personnel of the British armed forces in survival techniques, evading capture and resistance from interrogation, prior to overseas deployment.\n\nThe Royal Navy and the Royal Air Force have what has been described as a \"rich history of survival training\". Crews were often lost at sea during the Second World War which prompted this training to be initiated.\n\nPrior to the DSTO being established, each of the UK's armed forces carried out their own SERE training. The RAF and Royal Navy each provided their own defence, survive, evade and extract training whereas the Resistance Training Wing trained provided all services with resistance training. \n\nThe Royal Air Force can trace such training back to May 1943 with the formation of the School of Air/Sea Rescue, located near RAF Squire Gate in Lancashire. The school taught RAF and USAAF crews rescue procedures and familiarisation with rescue equipment. It relocated to RAF Calshot in Hampshire in 1945, when it became the Survival and Rescue Training Unit, before moving to RAF Thorney Island in West Sussex during 1946. It disbanded in April 1949, but was replaced by the Survival and Rescue Mobile Instruction Unit (SRMIU), again at Thorney Island, in January 1950. The SRMIU would provide training to personnel during annual visits to RAF stations, however this method was considered inadequate and in 1955 the Search, Rescue and Survival School was established as part of No. 2 Air Navigation School. The School moved to RAF Mount Batten near Plymouth In June 1959. At that time it was renamed the School of Combat Survival and Rescue (SCSR), reflecting the combat environment which it was expected that survival and rescue skills would typically be used. RAF Mount Batten closed in 1992, with the school relocated to RAF St Mawgan in Cornwall, where it remained until 2008.\n\nBefore 1943, Royal Navy survival training and equipment was the responsibility of two ratings trained by the RAF. The significance of the work however resulted in a reorganisation whereby the navy would train its own Survival Equipment Officers and ratings. The new Royal Navy Survival Equipment School (RNSES) initially took up residence at Eastleigh in Hampshire before moving to improved accommodation at Grange Airfield (HMS \"Siskin)\" in March 1947. In 1955, the school moved to a former boy’s preparatory school (Seafield Park) at Hill Head. It remained at Hill Head until September 1991 when it relocated to the former Naval Aircraft Technical Evaluation Centre (NATEC) building at RNAS Lee-on-Solent (HMS \"Daedalus\"). In February 1995, the RNSES become part of the Royal Navy Air Engineering School which was renamed Royal Navy Air Engineering and Survival School (RNAESS). When Lee-on-Solent closed in March 1996, the RNAESS was relocated to a purpose built building at HMS \"Sultan\" in Gosport. The unit was renamed the Survival Equipment Group and formed part of the Air Engineering and Survival Department, remaining at HMS \"Sultan\" until 2008.\n\nFormerly 4 Conduct after Capture Company (4 CAC Coy), the Resistance Training Wing (RTW) was part of the now disbanded Joint Services Intelligence Organisation (JSIO) based at Defence Intelligence Security Centre Chicksands in Bedfordshire. The wing trained personnel resistance to interrogation techniques.\n\nThe Defence Survive, Evade, Resist, Extract (SERE) Training Organisation (DSTO) was created in 2008, when the RAF's School of Combat Survival and Rescue was amalgamated with the Royal Navy's Survival Equipment Group and the Resistance Training Wing. Although DSTO is a tri-service organisation, it comes under the control of No. 22 Group within RAF Air Command.\n\nPrevious to this, training was undertaken at three different sites across the three services at diverse locations such as Chicksands and at HMS Sultan. The Royal Air Force is the lead on aircrew-focused training for military personnel in the United Kingdom and their second training centre (ASTC) is located at RAF Cranwell in Lincolnshire. The patron of ASTC is Ray Mears, who himself was in a SERE situation whilst filming in 2005 when his helicopter crashed in Wyoming. Mears managed to recover all of his crew to safety after the incident.\n\nSERE is an acronym for Survive, Evade, Resist and Extract. At a basic level, this is a core aspect of training for all UK military personnel on an annual basis. Regular Army personnel are tested as part of their Military Annual Training Tests (MATTs) as befits their frontline nature (similar processes are run by the Royal Marines and RAF Regiment) with non-frontline personnel mandated to watch a DVD detailing SERE methods.\n\nUK armed forces personnel who train at the SERE school, may be subject to methods of interrogation that are prohibited under international law. This training is carried out under strictly controlled conditions and is only delivered to enable the trainees to understand the methods that may be used against them if they are captured by hostile forces who are not signatories to, or adherents of, the Geneva Convention or of international law.\n\nSERE is mandated for all aircrew (from across all three services) and involves sea drills for those that require it. Sea drill involves jumping into the sea and spending some time adrift before hauling oneself into a dinghy from where the servicemember can be rescued. The Royal Navy and Royal Air Force aircrews practice this with regularity. Television personality Carol Vorderman undertook sea drills SERE training at RAF St Mawgan as part of her effort to become the ninth female to fly solo around the world. SERE training is also delivered to aircrew because the nature of their job makes them vulnerable to capture if they have to bale out over or crash an aircraft into hostile territory.\n\n"}
{"id": "44368303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44368303", "title": "Department of Archaeology at the University of York", "text": "Department of Archaeology at the University of York\n\nThe Department of Archaeology at the University of York, England, is a department which provides undergraduate and postgraduate courses in archaeology and its sub-disciplines and conducts associated research. It was founded in 1978 and has grown from a small department based at Micklegate House to more than a hundred undergraduate students based at King's Manor and with scientific facilities at the BioArCh centre on the main campus.\n\nThe archaeology department hosts several specialist organisations:\n\nThe department's faculty has led significant archaeological investigations across Great Britain and occasionally further afield\nThe department opened in 1978, 15 years after the university itself. The first head of department, Philip Rahtz built a thematic undergraduate programme specialising in the British Middle Ages. The programme included a 12-week field course in archaeological excavation. The department expanded under Martin Carver after his appointment in 1986. A postgraduate programme was added and the department moved to King's Manor. Subsequently, the department has grown in numbers of students, staff and the diversity of its specialisms: adding environmental archaeology, prehistory, computational archaeology, archaeological science and cultural heritage management.\n\nHead of Department:\nDeputy Head of Department:\nFaculty:\nHonorary and visiting staff:\n\nHeads of department:\n\n\nAmongst archaeology departments, York ranked 2nd for Impact, 2nd equal for Environment, and 4th overall in the 2014 Research Assessment Exercise. In the 2015 University Subject Tables, the department was ranked 6th out of 40 with a score of 92.6%. The Department was awarded the Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Higher and Further Education in 2011\n\n"}
{"id": "2347359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2347359", "title": "Education in Iraq", "text": "Education in Iraq\n\nEducation in Iraq is administered by the Ministry of Education.\n\nUNESCO reports that prior to the first Gulf War in 1991 Iraq had one of the best educational performances in the region. Primary school Gross Enrollment Rate was 100% and literacy levels were high. Since that time education has suffered as a result of American-led domination, sanctions, and instability.\n\nIraq established its education system in 1921, offering both public and private paths. In the early 1970s, education became public and free at all levels, and mandatory at the primary level. Two ministries manage the education system in Iraq: the Ministry of Education [MOE] and the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research [MOHSR]. The Ministry of Educatiocientific Research [MOHSR] is in charge of tertiary education and research centers.\n\nOn 1 June 1972, Saddam oversaw the seizure of international oil interests, which, at the time, dominated the country's oil sector. A year later, world oil prices rose dramatically as a result of the 1973 energy crisis, and skyrocketing revenues enabled Saddam to expand his agenda.\n\nWithin just a few years, Iraq was providing social services that were unprecedented among Middle Eastern countries. Saddam established and controlled the \"National Campaign for the Eradication of Illiteracy\" and the campaign for \"Compulsory Free Education in Iraq,\" and largely under his auspices, the government established universal free schooling up to the highest education levels; hundreds of thousands learned to read in the years following the initiation of the program. The government also supported families of soldiers, granted free hospitalization to everyone, and gave subsidies to farmers. Iraq created one of the most modernized public-health systems in the Middle East, earning Saddam an award from the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO).\n\nIt is generally agreed upon that before 1990, this Educational system in Iraq was one of the best in the region in addressing both access and equality. However, the situation began to deteriorate rapidly due to several wars and economic sanctions. According to UNESCO’s 2003 Situation Analysis of education in Iraq, the educational system in the Centre/South worsened despite the provision of basics through the Oil for Food Programme. Northern Iraq (Kurdistan) did not suffer as much due to rehabilitation and reconstruction programs organized through several UN agencies.\n\nSince then, major problems have emerged that are hindering the system and include: lack of resources, the politicization of the educational system, uneven emigration and internal displacement of teachers and students, security threats, and corruption. Illiteracy is widespread in comparison with before, standing at 39% for the rural population. Almost 22% of the adult population in Iraq has never attended school, and a mere 9% have secondary school as highest level completed. As far as gender equity, 47% of women in Iraq are either fully or partly illiterate, as women’s education suffers from differences across regions, and especially between the North and South.\n\nSince the 2003 invasion and the fall of the former regime [Saddam Hussein], Iraqis with the help of international agencies and foreign governments, have been attempting to create frameworks that would begin to address the issues at hand.\n\nAccording to the \"National Development Strategy \" of Iraq, published on June 30, 2005, the new vision for Iraq intends to:\n\n“Transform Iraq into a peaceful, unified federal democracy and a prosperous, market-oriented regional economic powerhouse that is fully integrated into the global economy” .\n\nThis stems from the fact that the country’s economy has been mismanaged for 40 years, and a country that once held a bright private sector and the educated population has come to have one of the lowest human development indicators in the region.\n\nThe National Development Strategy [NDS] contains four major areas of concentration:\n\n\nThe major pillar above that includes the category of education is that of “Improving quality of life”, as ‘healthy citizens tend to be productive citizens that will be able to take advantage of the opportunities provided in a market-oriented economy’ . The exact strategy towards education includes ‘investing in human capital with a focus on adult literacy, vocational training, and actions to reduce drop-out rates at the primary level’ .\n\nFollowing the 2003 invasion of Iraq, the Coalition Provisional Authority, with substantial international assistance, undertook a complete reform of Iraq’s education system. Among immediate goals were the removal of previously pervasive Baathist ideology from curricula and substantial increases in teacher salaries and training programs, which the Hussein government was unable to provide in the 1990s. The new Ministry of Education appointed a national curriculum commission to revise curricula in all subject areas. Because of under-funding by the Hussein regime, in 2003 an estimated 80 percent of Iraq’s 15,000 school buildings needed rehabilitation and lacked basic sanitary facilities, and most schools lacked libraries and laboratories.\n\nIn the 1990s, school attendance decreased drastically as education funding was cut and economic conditions forced children into the workforce. After the regime change, the system included about 6 million students in kindergarten through twelfth grade and 300,000 teachers and administrators. Education is mandatory only through the sixth grade, after which a national examination determines the possibility of continuing into the upper grades. Although a vocational track is available to those who do not pass the exam, few students elect that option because of its poor quality. Boys and girls generally attend separate schools beginning with seventh grade. In 2005 obstacles to further reform were poor security conditions in many areas, a centralized system that lacked accountability for teachers and administrators, and the isolation in which the system functioned for the previous 30 years. Few private schools exist. (One notable example: The Classical School of the Medes in Northern Iraq.) Prior to the occupation of 2003, some 240,000 persons were enrolled in institutions of higher education. The CIA World Factbook estimates that in 2000 the adult literacy rate was 84 percent for males and 64 percent for females, with UN figures suggesting a small fall in literacy of Iraqis aged 15–24 between 2000 and 2008, from 84.8% to 82.4%.\n\nEducation under the Kurdistan Regional Government (KRG) in Iraqi Kurdistan in northern Iraq faces many problems. There is a large number of people who have \"fake and bogus awards like MAs, PhDs and professorial titles\". Loyal political party members with fake university titles hold \"high official ranks from ministries to university chancellors, deans of colleges, general managers, administrators, supervisors and school headmasters\". Critics state that education in Iraqi Kurdistan is \"overshadowed by political rivalry, media propaganda, fake patriotism, nationalist sentiments and party affiliation\". \n\nThe impact of government policies on the class structure and stratification patterns can be imputed from available statistics on education and training as well as employment and wage structures. Owing to the historic emphasis on the expansion of educational facilities, the leaders of the Baath Party and indeed much of Iraq's urban middle class were able to move from rural or urban lower-class origins to middle and even top positions in the state apparatus, the public sector, and the society at large.\n\nThis social history is confirmed in the efforts of the government to generalize opportunities for basic education throughout the country. Between 1976 and 1986, the number of primary-school students increased 30 percent; female students increased 45 percent, from 35 to 44 percent of the total. The number of primary-school teachers increased 40 percent over this period. At the secondary level, the number of students increased by 46 percent, and the number of female students increased by 55 percent, from 29 to 36 percent of the total. Baghdad, which had about 29 percent of the population, had 26 percent of the primary students, 27 percent of the female primary students, and 32 percent of the secondary students.\n\nEducation was provided by the government through a centrally organized school system. In the early 1980s, the system included a six-year primary (or elementary) level known as the first level. The second level, also of six years, consisted of an intermediate-secondary and an intermediate-preparatory, each of three years. Graduates of these schools could enroll in a vocational school, one of the teacher training schools or institutes, or one of the various colleges, universities, or technical institutes.\n\nThe number of students enrolled in primary and secondary schools was highest in the central region and lowest in the north, although the enrollment of the northern schools was only slightly lower than that of the south. Before the war, the government had made considerable gains in lessening the extreme concentration of primary and secondary educational facilities in the main cities, notably Baghdad. Vocational education, which had been notoriously inadequate in Iraq, received considerable official attention in the 1980s. The number of students in technical fields had increased threefold since 1977, to over 120,090 in 1986.\n\nThe Baath regime also seemed to have made progress since the late 1960s in reducing regional disparities, although they were far from eliminated and no doubt was more severe than statistics would suggest. Baghdad, for example, was the home of most educational facilities above the secondary level, since it was the site not only of Baghdad University, which in the academic year 1983–84 (the most recent year for which statistics were available in early 1988) had 34,555 students, but also of the Foundation of Technical Institutes with 34,277 students, Mustansiriya University with 11,686 students, and the University of Technology with 7,384 students. The universities in Basra, Mosul, and Erbil, taken together, enrolled 26 percent of all students in higher education in the academic year 1983–84.\n\nThe number of students seeking to pursue higher education in the 1980s increased dramatically. Accordingly, in the mid-1980s the government made plans to expand Salahaddin University in Erbil in the north and to establish Ar-Rashid University outside Baghdad. The latter was not yet in existence in early 1988 but both were designed ultimately to accommodate 50,000 students. In addition, at the end of December 1987, the government announced plans to create four more universities: one in Tikrit in the central area, one each at Al Kufah and Al Qadisiyah in the south, and one at Al Anbar in the west. Details of these universities were not known.\n\nWith the outbreak of the war, the government faced a difficult dilemma regarding education. Despite the shortage of wartime manpower, the regime was unwilling to tap the pool of available university students, arguing that these young people were Iraq's hope for the future. As of early 1988, therefore, the government routinely exempted students from military service until graduation, a policy it adhered to rigorously.\n\nThere is currently an insufficient supply of schools, and most schools suffer from poor conditions.\n\n\nSince 2003 and the fall of the dictatorial regime, the war on Saddam Hussein and sectarian conflict has further destabilized the education system in Iraq.\n\n\nSince the bombing at Samar’a in 2006, displacement of both teachers and students has been another factor in the destabilization of the system.\n\nSince May 2003, international agencies have been involved in supporting education in Iraq, but fragmented data has not allowed these numbers to be integrated into the governmental budget. The UN [~US$80 million] and World Bank have two trust funds that go to help Iraq specifically, while USAID has contracts through the US Supplemental Budget for Iraq. Although these programs are a great beginning, they do not reach the level as assessed by the October 2003 UN/WB Needs Assessment Study, $4.8 billion.\n\nCurrent Projects financed by the Iraq Trust Fund, include but are not limited to:\n\n\nDespite endless daily challenges, the education system in Iraq continues to function. Actions thus far include but are not limited to :\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6914161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6914161", "title": "Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, University of Zagreb", "text": "Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing, University of Zagreb\n\nThe Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing (, abbr: \"FER\") is a faculty of the University of Zagreb. It is the largest technical faculty and the leading educational as well as research-and-development institution in the fields of electrical engineering and computing in Croatia.\n\nFER owns four buildings situated in the Zagreb neighbourhood of Martinovka, Trnje. The total area of the site is . , the Faculty employs more than 160 professors and 210 teaching and research assistants. In the academic year 2010/2011, the total number of students was about 3,800 in the undergraduate and graduate level, and about 450 in the PhD program.\n\nAs of school year 2004/2005, when the implementation of the Bologna process started at the University of Zagreb, the faculty has two baccalaureus programmes (each lasting 3 years):\nAfter receiving a bachelor's degree, students can take part in one of three master's programmes:\n\nThe Faculty comprises 12 academic departments:\n\nThe Faculty of Electrical Engineering (, abbr: \"ETF\") was formed on 1 July 1956 when the College of Engineering of the University of Zagreb was divided into ETF and three other new faculties. The faculty existed under this name until 7 February 1995 when it was renamed to its current name.\n\nIn 1956, the first curriculum was formed, offering students programme called \"Study of Electrical Engineering\". The faculty was divided into two departments, one for weak current (\"Odjel za slabu struju\") and another for the strong current (\"Odjel za jaku struju\"). This was later referred to as the ETF-1 programme. The Faculty changed its curriculum in 1967, when the ETF-2 curriculum introduced a division of studies into electrical power systems, electronics, electrical machinery and automation. In 1970, the ETF-3 curriculum introduced further specializations, such as nuclear power systems and computing. There was also an ETF-4 curriculum later.\n\nIn 1994 name of the faculty changed, and the curriculum was changed from ETF-4 to FER-1. A separate study called \"Study of Computing\" was formed, so the faculty from then on offered two different degrees - one was the existing \"diplomirani inženjer elektrotehnike\", or graduate engineer of electrical engineering, and the new one was \"diplomirani inženjer računarstva\", or graduate engineer of computing. In 2004 FER-1 was transformed to FER-2, to conform to the Bologna process. This involved, among other things, changing the length of the essential course set from four semesters to two semesters, the renaming of the first study program to include the term information technology, and the reworking of the program subdivisions so that they each include five specialized modules.\n\n\n\n\nThe Electrical Engineering Student Club (Croatian: \"Klub studenata elektrotehnike\", abbr: \"KSET\") is a student association founded by students of the Croatian Faculty of Electrical Engineering, and plays an active role in the social life of the University of Zagreb and Zagreb in general. The club is part of a larger building complex of its native faculty.\n\n"}
{"id": "28472389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28472389", "title": "Faith School Menace?", "text": "Faith School Menace?\n\nFaith School Menace? is a television documentary presented by Richard Dawkins which explores the effects of faith schools on the students in them and society in general by taking examples in particular from UK faith schools, with the stated aim \"to explore the balance of rights between a parent's right to educate a child in their own faith, and the children's rights to determine their own beliefs and approach the world with a genuinely open mind\".\n\nAt the time of broadcast, one third of British schools had some kind of religious affiliation. Dawkins was refused entry to Catholic and Jewish faith schools, but was allowed to film in a Muslim school, where children were taught what the theory of evolution was, but that it was not true.\n\nIt was first aired on More4 on 18 August 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "4201016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4201016", "title": "Georg Baur", "text": "Georg Baur\n\nGeorg Baur (1859–1898) was a vertebrate paleontologist and Neo-Lamarckian who studied reptiles of the Galapagos Islands, particularly the Galápagos tortoises, in the 1890s. He is perhaps best known for his subsidence theory of the origin of the Galapagos Islands, where he postulated the islands were the remains of a former landmass, connected to South America via Cocos Island. \n\nBaur was born in Weisswasser, Bohemia in 1859. He spent his early years Hohenheim near Stuttgart. As his father was a professor of forestry, Baur initially planned to study forestry. where his father was a professor of forestry. However, while at university he became interested in the fields of geology, paleontology, and botany instead.\n\nPrior to his work on the Galapagos Islands, Baur was an assistant to Othniel Charles Marsh at Yale University from 1884 until 1890. Baur undertook an expedition to the Galápagos Islands in 1891, leaving New York on May 1, arriving in the Galápagos on June 9, and departing the islands on August 26 for Guayaquil, Panama, and the return to New York. Baur named several subspecies of Galápagos tortoise, including \"Chelonoidis nigra guentheri\" (Baur, 1889), and \"Chelonoidis nigra galapagoensis\" (Baur, 1889). Not all of Baur's tortoise taxa are still considered valid.\n\nHe also studied turtles of the southern United States, naming several species new to science. The following species and subspecies of reptiles were named in his honor by other herpetologists: \"Kinosternon baurii\", \"Phyllodactylus baurii\" (one of the leaf-toed geckos of the Galápagos Islands), and \"Terrapene carolina bauri.\n\nHe held the position of Docent (lecturer) in osteology and paleontology, Clark University, from 1890 to 1892, and after that, professor and chairman of the osteology and vertebrate paleontology department at the University of Chicago until his death in 1898 at age 39.5 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "6630032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6630032", "title": "Georgina Burnett", "text": "Georgina Burnett\n\nGeorgina Burnett (born 7 December 1978) is an Australian-born British-Polynesian weather presenter, television presenter, vlogger, property developer and life coach.\n\nGeorgina Burnett was born on 7 December 1978 in Sydney, Australia. At three years old, her family moved to the United Kingdom, settling in Dorset. She has 3 brothers.\n\nBurnett currently freelances as a weather presenter and news reporter for all the UK nations and regions, most commonly BBC London News, BBC Scotland, BBC Cymru Wales, BBC Northern Ireland, BBC South East Today, BBC Look East, and BBC South Today, and also presents the weather for a number of BBC regional radio stations.\n\nBurnett is a DIY and interior design enthusiast and has been investing in and developing properties since 2009. One of her properties was featured in 25 Beautiful Homes. She shares her knowledge and ideas through her blog and online channel \"The Home Genie\".\n\nShe has also written expert advice for The Sunday Times, The Sunday Telegraph, The Guardian, The Independent, 25 Beautiful Homes and a number of other interiors magazines.\n\n"}
{"id": "25002034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25002034", "title": "Henry Moyes", "text": "Henry Moyes\n\nHenry Moyes (c1750 – 1807) was a blind Scottish lecturer on natural philosophy.\n\nAs an itinerant public speaker he helped raise 18th century popular interest in the new field of chemistry. He mixed with the greatest engineers and scientists of the day and attended the Lunar Society. In London he shared a room in George Street, Hanover Square with Adam Walker where lectures were given to small groups of gentry. Moyes was described as \"an excellent lecturer in philosophy\" by Joseph Priestley. His portrait was painted by John Russell.\n\nHe came from a humble Kirkcaldy background and was blinded aged three by smallpox. In 1766 he was befriended by Adam Smith, when the latter was in Kirkcaldy writing his Wealth of Nations. The boy showed precocious aptitude and, as well as teaching Moyes himself, Smith secured the patronage of David Hume and Thomas Reid in the young man's education.\n\nBeing blind, he required assistance for demonstrations and his assistant, nephew William Nicol, would himself become notable for his contributions to science.\n\nDuring 1784–86, he toured the United States giving successful lectures in Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Princeton and Charleston, South Carolina. He was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1785.\n\n"}
{"id": "19814186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19814186", "title": "Hobo Day", "text": "Hobo Day\n\nHobo Day is the homecoming celebration for South Dakota State University. It is usually celebrated in October. 2012 marked the 100th Anniversary of Hobo Day. Hobo Day has been canceled just twice: once during World War I and a second time in 1942 during World War II.\n\nThe origin of Hobo Day can be traced back to 1907. A sequence of events occurred that spurred the homecoming celebration that is celebrated today.\n\nIn the fall of 1907, SDSU (then South Dakota State College) played Dakota Wesleyan at home in Brookings, South Dakota. The students, hungry for a win, participated in a \"Nightshirt Parade\" to stir up enthusiasm for the upcoming game. The men dressed in their nightshirts and women dressed in sheets. The students continued the tradition every homecoming day until in 1911, when the college administration deemed it undignified and un-ladylike for women to dress up in sheets and wander the streets. As a result, the homecoming tradition was ended and a new one needed to form. \n\nA student by the name of R. Adams Dutcher brought up a concept he had seen attempted at the University of Missouri that had students dress up as hobos and bums that was ultimately dropped from their homecoming celebrations for various reasons. Without a real event to partake in during homecoming, the concept took wing with much enthusiasm from the student body.\n\nThe first Hobo Day occurred November 2, 1912. The men were to grow beards for approximately one month and the women were to dress as Indian maidens on Hobo Day. After all the preparation was complete, the entire student body participating in Hobo Day journeyed to the train station to meet the opposing football team. According to the student newspaper, \"The onlooker could not have told whether he was in an 1849 Indian village or a Twentieth Century division point on the Northwestern railroad.\" The new homecoming celebration was a huge success and is still currently in place.\n\nThe Hobo Day parade also included floats built by students that drove down the main street. During the 1940s and 50s, the floats were described as \"enormous and spectacular.\" Due to safety concerns and collapsing floats due to their enormous size, the floats were built smaller and to more manageable proportions. One particular float that caused a sharp decline in float building was a large elaborate float that had an outhouse on the back containing a student with his pants around his ankles on the toilet. After several newspapers in the region declared SDSU students as \"vulgar,\" the college shied away from obscene and large floats. \n\nThe parade is led by a notable alumni or dignitary selected as grand marshal by the Grand Pooba, who is the head of the Hobo Day Committee.\n\nThe parade is ended by the Grand Pooba riding through on the historic Bummobile with the rest of the Hobo Day Committee. For seven decades, the Bummobile has led the Hobo Day Parade past the Campanile along Medary Avenue. Otherwise, with the exception of a select number of summer parades and SDSU events, the 1912 Ford Model T remains displayed in a large glass encasing in the Hobo Day Gallery, a Hobo Day showcase room in the SDSU University Student Union, built in 2010. The year of the Bummobile (1912) is significant because it marks the celebration of the first Hobo Day. The Bummobile has been the lead entry in every Hobo Day parade since 1938, with the exception of 1942, when Hobo Day and classes were canceled so students could help with the World War II effort. The Bummobile was donated in 1938 by Frank Weigel, a farmer from Flandreau, S.D. The Model T has shepherded homecoming grand poobas, parade grand marshals and U.S. president-elect, Dwight D. Eisenhower. \n\nFormer Grand Pooba Sara French said a series of problems has arisen in recent years. The Bummobile has started on fire; a tire has fallen off and the brakes have given out. The car had to be pushed through the parade route in 2006. That has prompted French and the Hobo Day Committee to launch an effort to repair and restore the Bummobile. In 2009, the Bummobile was shipped off to California for a whole year to be restored and repaired, and ever since it runs with minimal problems.5 \n\nIn 1990, students and people in Brookings for the event grew agitated after a cold, damp week and created what came to be known at the Hobo Day Riots.\n\nPeople poured from house parties and congregated at areas on and off campus. A bonfire was started and when a KSFY news vehicle from the Sioux Falls station arrived with a crew to cover the rowdy celebration, students went from jumping over the fire and showing off for the camera to rocking and eventually overturning the station wagon.\n\nParade barricades were burned, light poles and street signs damaged and an SDSU campus police car was vandalized. Nine men were eventually charged with offenses and Hobo Day's future was in question, according to university officials.\n\nLarge house parties were banned and the Hobo Day Committee apologized. \n\n\nThe events throughout the week, named Hobo Week, are facilitated by South Dakota State University's Hobo Day Committee (HDC). One of 17 coordinators selected to be on the HDC is the Grand Pooba. The Grand Pooba is in charge of selecting and maintaining a committee of students to plan, promote, and execute Hobo Week and Hobo Day. \n\nHobo Gear Prep Night: Students are invited to buy donated clothes for cheap prices to turn into their Hobo Gear, or bring their clothes are buy patches, buttons, and accessories to amp up their outfits. \n\nOne Month Club: Males grow their beards out and females grow out their leg hair the month leading up to Hobo Day. Men's categories include longest, fullest, patchiest and best attempt. Women's categories include longest, softest and roughest. \n\nSix Month Club: Males grow their beards out and females grow out their leg hair for SIX months leading up to Hobo Day (April-October). \n\nPaint the Town: Various businesses in Brookings volunteer to have their windows painted, each team is assigned a window to paint and a winner is chosen based on creativity, theme, and school spirit. \n\nRally at the Rails: This glorified pep fest takes place in downtown Brookings and features a live band, food, dancing, games, and other entertainment for students and community members to kick off Hobo Week in style. \n\nBum-A-Meal Students sign up to participate in a meal one evening of the Hobo week. When they arrive for the event, they are given an address and go to eat at a home in the Brookings community. \n\nBumfire: Traditionally, the Thursday night before the game, students flock out to the \"Backyard\" for a large bonfire. The local fire department has a large presence at this event! A concert often occurs before or after the bonfire. \n\nHobolympics: Teams from various campus organizations and residence halls compete in a variety of \"hobo\" athletics.\n\nMrMs Homelycoming: This event allows the male population to compete in a beauty pageant dressed as girls and the female population to compete dressed as guys. Talent and interview are some of the judged categories. \n\nBumOver: Students are provided with cardboard and duct tape and build a \"shanty\" resembling a home, iconic buildings, or whatever they imagine! \n\nResidence Hall Lobby Decorating: Each of the residence halls on campus decorate their lobby, usually in full glory. \n\nCavorts Talent Show: The student talent show takes place the Friday night before Hobo Day. Cavorts, which often sells out in advance, is held in the Performing Arts Center (PAC). The acts performing go through an audition process much earlier in the semester and are selected to perform in the show by student leaders. Once chosen, the acts compete for cash prizes at the actual event. Popular faculty and staff are often chosen to judge acts based on various attributes. In 2010, an audience-voted Fan Favorite prize was introduced to accompany the traditional judge-voted first, second, and third place prizes. \n\nHobo Day 5k: The morning of Hobo Day, there is a 5k sponsored by the local running group, Prairie Striders.\n\nThe Bummobile is the inspiration for the Hobo Day Gallery located in the northwest corner of the Student Union.\n\nThe fully restored Bummobile is the centerpiece of the gallery which includes other Hobo Day memorabilia. The Hobo Day Committee helped develop the vision for the Hobo Day Gallery, which serves as a living gallery for students, alumni and visitors to reconnect and to share time-honored traditions of the past. The Class of 1958 took a leadership role in private fundraising for the project and an anonymous member of the Class of 1958 pledged $75,000 as a challenge match to spur donations. \n\nIn Fall 2011, a sculpture of Hobo Day icon Weary Wil with his ever-faithful dog, Spot, following him, was erected outside the north entrance to the University Student Union, near the glass windows showcasing the Bummobile in the Hobo Day Gallery. Following suit in 2013, a statue of Dirty Lil with her kitten Mittens was installed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43768549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43768549", "title": "Husmorskole", "text": "Husmorskole\n\nNorway’s home economics schools (Norwegian: \"Husmorskoler\"), or technical schools for domestic arts (Norwegian: \"fagskoler i husstell\") arose at the end of the 19th century for the purpose of providing specialized instruction in domestic subjects. The schools developed in parallel with agricultural schools (Norwegian: \"landbruksskoler\") and were intended to teach food preparation and housework. Later these home economics schools were also established in Norway's cities. The schools in the countryside were generally governed by county councils (Norwegian: \"fylkeskommuner\") and town schools by municipal governments.\n\nIn the 1960s the home economics schools were renamed as technical schools for domestic arts (\"fagskoler i husstell\"). The schools weren’t regulated by law before the secondary education law (\"Lov om videregående opplæring\") came into effect in 1974. The home economics schools then became a part of the secondary education program, on an equal footing with gymnasiums (university preparation schools) and practical and professional schools (\"yrkeskoler\") specializing in business and technical programs. Following the 1976 secondary education law, the gymnasiums were consolidated with the practical and professional schools into a unified secondary education system. Nowadays instruction in restaurant work, food and nutrition is offered as a program discipline within Norway's overall secondary education program.\n"}
{"id": "10647886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10647886", "title": "International Congress on Mathematical Education", "text": "International Congress on Mathematical Education\n\nThe International Congress on Mathematical Education (ICME) is held every four years under the auspices of the International Commission on Mathematical Instruction (ICMI) of the International Mathematical Union (IMU).\n\nThe Congress is planned and organized by separate committees, which operate independently of the ICMI. The aim of the Congress is to present the current states and trends in mathematics education research and in the practice of mathematics teaching at all levels.\nThe Congress will gather a broad spectrum of participants such as researchers in mathematics education, teacher trainers, practicing teachers, mathematicians, and others interested in mathematics education. The scientific program typically consists of plenary activities, regular lectures, survey teams, topic study groups, discussion groups, workshops, poster presentations, national presentations, etc. The regular lectures are held by experienced researchers or educators who have been invited, whereas most of the other activities are open for registration.\n\nPast editions of ICME have taken place at:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2467510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2467510", "title": "Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities", "text": "Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities\n\nIsrael Academy of Sciences and Humanities, based in Jerusalem, was established in 1961 by the State of Israel to foster contact between Israeli scholars in the sciences and humanities and create a think tank for advising the government on research projects of national importance. Its members include many of Israel's most distinguished scholars.\n\nThe offices of the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities are located next door to the official residence of the President of Israel and the Council for Higher Education in Israel in Albert Einstein Square in Jerusalem.\n\nIn the sciences, the Academy funds projects on the geology, flora, and fauna of Israel, and facilitates the participation of Israeli scientists in research at international projects, such as high-energy physics at CERN and synchrotron radiation at the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility. Israel has the highest concentration of scientists and engineers in the world. The academy funds a number of prestigious awards in the sciences including the Alon Prize.\n\nIn the humanities, research is funded into the study of the Tanakh and Talmud, Jewish history, Jewish philosophy, Jewish art, and the Hebrew language, as well as Hebrew prose and poetry.\n\nThe Academy administers the Einstein Fellowships fund, which fosters relations between scientists from around the world and the Israeli academic community, the Israel Science Fund, with an annual budget of $53 million, and a number of research funds based on grants from the Adler Fund for Space Research, the Wolf Foundation, and the Fulks Fund for Medical Research. The Academy also runs the Israel Academic Center in Cairo, which assists Israeli scholars with research into Egypt and Egyptian culture, and facilitates cooperation with Egyptian academics.\n\nThe Academy has observer status at the European Science Foundation, and runs exchange programs with the British Royal Society, the British Academy, the Swedish Academy, and the National Research Council of Singapore.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2127459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2127459", "title": "Jennifer Haigh", "text": "Jennifer Haigh\n\nJennifer Haigh is an American novelist and short story writer.\n\nShe was born on October 16, 1968, in Barnesboro, a Western Pennsylvania coal town 85 miles northeast of Pittsburgh in Cambria County. She attended Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, and earned a Master of Fine Arts degree from the Iowa Writers' Workshop in 2002. Her fiction has been published in \"Granta\", \"Ploughshares\", \"Guernica\", and many other publications, including The Best American Short Stories anthology. She was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship for fiction in 2018. , Haigh lives in Boston.\n\n\nHer 2003 debut novel \"Mrs. Kimble\" — telling the story of a mysterious con man named Ken Kimble through the eyes of his three wives – won the PEN/Hemingway Award for outstanding debut fiction.\n\nHer next novel, \"Baker Towers\" (2005), depicts the rise and fall of a western Pennsylvania coal town in the years following World War II. It was a \"New York Times\" bestseller and won the 2006 \"PEN/L.L. Winship\" award for best book by a New England writer.\n\nHer third novel, \"The Condition\", was published by HarperCollins in July 2008. It traces the dissolution of a proper New England family when their only daughter is diagnosed with Turner's Syndrome, a chromosomal abnormality that keeps her from going through puberty.\n\nHer novel \"Faith\" (2011) tells the story of a suburban Boston priest accused of molesting a boy in his parish.\n\nHer short story \"Paramour\", published in the Winter 2011–12 issue of Ploughshares, was selected for inclusion in the Best American Short Stories anthology in 2012.\n\nIn 2013, her short story collection \"News From Heaven\" revisited the town of Bakerton, Pennsylvania, and features encore appearances by several characters from the Baker Towers novel.\n\nHer novel \"Heat and Light\" (HarperCollins, 2016) explores the effects of natural gas fracking on a small Pennsylvania town, the fictional Bakerton. It was named a Best Book of the Year by The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Wall Street Journal, and National Public Radio. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "10231095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10231095", "title": "Kabul Polytechnic University", "text": "Kabul Polytechnic University\n\nKabul Polytechnic University is the main center of educating engineers in Kabul, Afghanistan. It was founded on 13 October 1963 (1342 mizan in the Iranian calendar) as Kabul Polytechnic Institute and is located in 72 hectares of land in Karte Mamourin, north-western Kabul. In the opening ceremony government officials from both Afghanistan other countries were present. Since its establishment it has been considered as one of the important entities in providing education and training.\n\nThe university building includes classrooms, laboratory, library, dormitory, place for professors, cafeteria with 1000 capacity, mosque with 500 capacity, sport facility, conference room with 1000 capacities, workshop and leisure center. \n\nThe university building materials were given by the Soviet Union as gift to Afghanistan. Engineers from Soviet Union and Afghanistan worked jointly. Alter completion of teaching classrooms and laboratory in 1967 (1346), the university began to offer educational service and in the year of 1972 (1351) for the first time students from this university graduated. \n\nUntil 1980 (1359) students studied till bachelor level and till 1992 (1371) students could study master level in the field of engineering. In this period people were educated to PhD level. \n\nUpon reopening in 2002, it was renamed Kabul Polytechnic University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26346618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26346618", "title": "Les Roches Marbella International School of Hotel Management", "text": "Les Roches Marbella International School of Hotel Management\n\nLes Roches Global Hospitality Education - Marbella, Spain is a private hospitality management university located in the Mediterranean coastal city of Marbella, Spain. Since its founding in 1995, the University offers accredited undergraduate and postgraduate degree programs in international hospitality management.\n\nThe institution was originally formed in 1954 as an international boarding school called École des Roches, located in Switzerland's Canton of Valais region.\n\nÉcole des Roches evolved to become the Les Roches Hotel & Tourism School and was recognized as the first hotel management school in Switzerland to offer its courses in English.\n\nIn 1995, the Les Roches Hotel and Tourism School founded their first international campus located in Marbella, Spain and under the name Swiss School of Hotel Management and Tourism in Spain. In 1996 the university inaugurated its current campus and soon thereafter became known as the Les Roches Marbella International School of Hotel Management.\n\nIn 2003, the school became a member institution of Laureate International Universities, a private international network of degree-granting post-secondary institutions located around the world. During its time under the leadership Laureate International Universities, Les Roches Global Hospitality Education formed part of the organization's 75 accredited universities in 29 countries. \nLes Roches Global Hospitality Education became the first school in Spain to receive institutional accreditation from the New England Association of Schools & Colleges (NEASC) in the United States. NEASC is one of six regional accrediting associations recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.\n\nAlso in 2004, the campus continued its expansion with the addition of a new academic wing, an a la carte restaurant and adjoining kitchen operation, as well as doubling its on campus residence capacity and recreational areas.\n\nIn 2010 and again in 2013, the University was voted by the hospitality industry as the number one school in Spain for preparing students for an international career in hospitality management. This was the conclusion of a broad industry survey among hiring managers from international hospitality companies around the world. The research was conducted by Taylor Nelson Sofres (TNS) Travel & Tourism (U.K.), the world’s largest provider of custom research and analysis. The primary purpose of this survey was to establish the relative ‘ranking’ of the various hospitality management schools who provide university-level programmes in Spain and from which international hospitality companies are likely to recruit staff.\n\nIn 2016, the Les Roches network of campuses worldwide was acquired by Sommet Education\n\nThe university teaches undergraduate and postgraduate degree programs that specialize in international hospitality management. Undergraduate courses focus on developing advanced business management skills in hotel, restaurant, and service industry operations. The school places emphasis on combining core academic knowledge with hands-on experiential learning as the basis for its educational model. This is achieved by combining traditional classroom learning with purpose-built learning facilities that are designed to simulate a real world hotel environment. During the first two years of the undergraduate course students alternate weekly between craft-based learning classes in the school's simulated facilities and core business-related lecture subjects taught in the classroom. The postgraduate academic structure is identical in nature to the undergraduate program's, however the curriculum involves an accelerated immersion into key areas that takes into consideration the students' previous educational and professional background. Additionally, as part of the undergraduate programs, students complete between two and three internships in international hotels and hospitality related organizations. The postgraduate degree requires one internship semester to complete the program.\n\nLes Roches Hotel Management Diploma (3 years)\n\nThe traditional Swiss hotel management diploma is devised to provide degree holders a fast-track access to entry-level employment after completing an alternation of three semesters of academic study at the school, and three semesters professional supervised internships. Coursework focuses on administration, management, marketing, culinary arts, and guest relations. Students who complete the six semester program can choose to exit and receive the Les Roches Hotel Management Diploma or continue studying towards a bachelor's degree within the institution.\n\nBachelor of Business Administration in International Hotel Management (3.5 years)\n\nInitially this internationally accredited program follows the same curriculum as the Les Roches Hotel Management Diploma, but includes two additional academic semesters and a total of two internships semesters in place of three. During the final year of the BBA degree program, students have the option to study a specialization in Strategic Human Resources Management, Entrepreneurship with Small & Medium Enterprise Management, Events Management or Resort Management.\n\nBachelor of Business Administration in International Hotel Management with Intensive English Language and Service\n\nThis program is geared towards students who lack the English proficiency requirements for entry into the BBA program. In addition to full immersion English courses, the two-semester preparatory program focuses on hospitality operations with practical and academic classes. Upon completion of the two preliminary semesters students are directly admitted into the full BBA program curriculum.\n\nPostgraduate Intensive Diploma in International Hotel Management\n\nThe university's postgraduate course is designed for students of diverse professional backgrounds. This is a professional one-year program that provides an intensive academic semester covering hotel operations, administration and general business courses. It is designed for people who already have a university degree or diploma and would like to redirect their careers into the international hospitality industry. Integrated into the program is operational management and craft-based training in culinary arts, food & beverage as well as rooms division. The program culminates with a second semester that includes a management training internship in international hospitality establishments.\n\nThis Postgraduate program in Marketing Management for Luxury Tourism is designed for graduates and professionals wishing to fast track their career in marketing management for the hospitality industry. The program aims to provide the expert knowledge and perspective required by professionals and directors in the global and dynamic environment of tourism by understanding the impact of new technologies and new trends.\n\nInternships in hotels and other hospitality/tourism organizations are core to the university's educational system. They believe that, together with academic semesters, alternating periods of practical training in the field prepares students to comprehend real-world circumstances and gain professional experience well in advance of earning a degree.\n\nIn addition there are 400 more students carrying out professional internships in hotels in Spain and abroad throughout the academic year.\n\nAs a branch campus of Les Roches Global Hospitality Education, the school offers international transfer opportunities to branch campuses located in Spain, Switzerland, China, and the United States. In 2014 the institution broadened their program offer by providing students the option of an international transfer program and the opportunity to earn two degrees. The dual degree program, called \"Experience The World\" offers a BBA in International Hotel Management from the university's campus in Marbella, Spain and a BA in Hospitality Management from its affiliate campus, Kendall College in Chicago, USA. Upon completing the full undergraduate BBA degree program, students have the option to study an additional nine months at Kendall College, in the USA and receive two accredited degrees.\n\nThe campus and joint student residence are located in a residential area in the heart of Marbella’s Golden Mile district, between Marbella city center and the tourist destination of Puerto Banús.\n\nThe facilities of the Les Roches Global Hospitality Education campus in Marbella, Spain include:\n\n\nLes Roches Global Hospitality Education is accredited internationally by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges (NEASC) in the United States which is one of the six regional accreditation associations for quality assurance recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.\n\nAll graduates of the university are eligible to become members of the Alumni Association. The association consists of over 3,000 graduates worldwide, provides news and employment opportunities to members as well as useful networking resources. In addition, annual Alumni reunions are organized both on the school's campus as well as abroad.\n\n"}
{"id": "17884869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17884869", "title": "List of university speech-language pathology departments", "text": "List of university speech-language pathology departments\n\n"}
{"id": "27846727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27846727", "title": "Mainor Business School", "text": "Mainor Business School\n\nMainor Business School () is a private university in Estonia, established in 1992.\n\nIt has 5 study centers, that are located in Tallinn, Tartu, Narva, Pärnu and Viljandi.\n\n"}
{"id": "7610388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7610388", "title": "Master of Quantitative Finance", "text": "Master of Quantitative Finance\n\nA masters degree in quantitative finance concerns the application of mathematical methods to the solution of problems in financial economics. There are several like-titled degrees which may further focus on financial engineering, financial risk management, computational finance and/or mathematical finance. \n\nIn general, these degrees aim to prepare students for roles as \"quants\" (quantitative analysts), including analysis, structuring, trading, and investing; in particular, these degrees emphasize derivatives and fixed income, and the hedging and management of the resultant market and credit risk. \n\nFormal masters-level training in quantitative finance has existed since 1990.\n\nThe program is usually one to one and a half years in duration, and may include a thesis component. Entrance requirements are generally multivariable calculus, linear algebra, differential equations and some exposure to computer programming (usually C++); programs emphasizing financial mathematics may require some background in measure theory.\n\nThe curriculum builds quantitative skills, and simultaneously develops the underlying finance theory:\n\n\n\n\nThe title of the degree will depend on emphasis, the major differences between programs being the curriculum's distribution between mathematical theory, quantitative techniques and financial applications. The more theoretically oriented degrees are usually termed \"Masters in Mathematical Finance\" or \"Masters in Financial Mathematics\" while those oriented toward practice are termed \"Masters in Financial Engineering\" (MFE or MSFE), \"Masters in Computational Finance\" (MCF or MSCF), or sometimes simply \"Masters in Finance\" (MFin). \"Masters in Quantitative Finance\" is the more general degree title, although \"MQF\" degrees are often less theoretical and more practical. The practice oriented programs are often positioned as professional degrees (and in the United States, are sometimes offered as Professional Science Masters). Programs are sometimes offered as a Master of Engineering, or as a Master of Operations Research.\n\nThe program differs from a Master of Science in Finance (MSF), and an MBA in finance, in that these degrees aim to produce finance generalists as opposed to \"quants\", and therefore focus on corporate finance, accounting, equity valuation and portfolio management. The treatment of any common topics—usually \"derivatives\", financial modeling, and risk management—will be less (or even non) technical. Entrance requirements are similarly less mathematical. Note that Master of Finance (M.Fin.) and MSc. in Finance degrees, as distinct from the MSF, may be substantially similar to the MQF.\n\nThere is some overlap with degrees in actuarial science, and both degrees are occasionally offered by the same department. Nevertheless, the programs are almost always separate and distinct. Specifically, whereas actuarial programs cover risk and uncertainty as applied to pensions, insurance and investments, quantitative finance programs are broader (although offer less depth in these areas), and prepare graduates for various of the highly numerate roles in finance and for other areas that require \"quants\".\n\nThere is similarly overlap with a Master of Financial Economics, although the emphasis is very different. That degree focuses on the underlying economics, and on developing and testing theoretical models, and aims to prepare graduates for research based roles and for doctoral study. The curriculum therefore emphasises coverage of financial theory, and of econometrics, while the treatment of model \"implementation\" (through mathematical modeling and programming), while important, is secondary. Entrance requirements are similarly less mathematical. Some Financial Economics degrees are substantially quantitative, and are largely akin to the MQF.\n\nFor students whose interests in finance are commercial rather than academic, a Masters in Quantitative Finance may be seen as an alternative to a PhD in finance. At the same time though, \"Masters in Mathematical Finance\" programs are often positioned as providing a basis for doctoral study.\n\nThe first quantitative finance masters programs in the US were offered by Illinois Institute of Technology in 1990, under Dr. Michael Ong. (The programs offered were the \"Masters of Science in Quantitative Finance\" and \"Masters of Science in Financial Markets and Trading\", and were combined in 2008 to become the \"Masters of Science in Finance, with Financial Engineering Concentration\".) The NYU-Poly Financial Engineering degree was the second program of its kind. Carnegie Mellon introduced its \"Masters of Computational Finance\" program in 1994. OGI's Computational Finance Program (1996, now discontinued) was the first such program based in a computer science department. Other pioneering programs include those at NYU's Courant Institute, Columbia, Princeton, UCLA and MIT. \n\nSubsequent growth in the number and location of programs has paralleled the growth of financial engineering—with its growing importance across all aspects of the financial services industries—and of risk management as professions. Programs are now widely offered internationally—see links below—and in some cases are available online or via distance education (e.g. Washington, York, Stevens, USC, NUS). In a few cases, a quantitative-finance MBA-specialization is offered. More recently undergraduate programs are available, both in the US (e.g. Ball State, James Madison, McIntire.) and internationally (e.g. Essex, HKUST, UNISA).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30764085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30764085", "title": "Mitraniketan", "text": "Mitraniketan\n\nMitraniketan \"Vishwavidyapeetam for Open Learning & Total Development\" is a Non-Governmental organization located at Vellanad, which is 25 km away from Thiruvananthapuram, the capital of Kerala state in South India.It is a 500 member community, including a staff of 100 men and women. Mitraniketan works in the fields of innovation, training and extension in community development, environment, science, education and appropriate technology. The project was begun with a view to offering education and training in a holistic spirit to primarily socially underprivileged children and youngsters. The organization focuses on alternative education mode for development.\n\nMitraniketan was founded by Padmashri K.Viswanathan in 1956 in his native village.He graduated from Visva Bharati University, Santiniketan (W.B.), studied educational development in USA and Scandinavia, and in the process was inspired to launch the Mitraniketan project, \"The Home of Friends\", in Sanskrit the word 'Mitra' means Friends 'Niketan' means Home. In 1950s Vellanad was a remote village and there was only one government institution at Vellanad that was Government High School. He started his work by providing supplementary education for the students of nearby schools after school hours. Those class were very informal since he aimed for a total development in children. As it became a huge success he converted it into a Malayalam medium school. Now it known as the \"Mitraniketan Vikas Bhavan School\"(Primary & Secondary).The greatest challenge he faced at that time was the scarcity of students for a regular schooling. Parents of neighboring children were not ready to send their children for an experiment. but Viswanathan was not ready to loose is faith, he moved some northern districts of Kerala where there are huge number of tribal population. He met them, talked with them, stayed with them.. at last they came forward to send their children with him.Mitraniketan Vikasbhavan school is not a regular school, it aims for developing active citizenship among the students by developing their innate potentials.\n\nMain campus of Mitraniketan is situated near Vellanad, Thiruvananthapuram district, state of Kerala, South India.\n\nCity Center a liaison office, situated at West Fort near Thiruvananthapuram City, Kerala.\n\nEducation Extension Center situated at Wayanad district of Kerala State.\n\nMitraniketan is a 500-member community, including a staff of about 100 men and women. It operates on a 60-acre campus in architecturally untraditional buildings with classrooms dotted around in a hilly green palm forest. There is a children's hostel, a students' college and hostel, a gym and sports field, a guest house, vocational training workshops, small art and grocery shops, a small but exquisite bakery, a pottery, offices etc. Architecturally noteworthy are especially the open assembly hall and the modest but beautiful home of Viswanathan and his wife, Sethu Viswanathan, at the centre of the settlement.\n\nPadmashri K.Viswanathan (b. 1928, d. April 28, 2014) graduated from Visva-Bharati University,Santiniketan (W.B.), studied educational development in United States and Scandinavia, and in the process was inspired to launch the Mitraniketan project, \"The Home of Friends\" in 1956. His endeavours over these more than 50 years have established the place as an internationally reputed institution for learning and development.\n\nThis largely residential educational community supports the academic and practical training needs of Socio-economically backward groups. All programs involve integrated education aimed at the total development of each participant.\n\n\nMitraniketan KVK is an institutional project funded by Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi established in 1979 at Mitraniketan to work on transfer of technology with the objective to bridge the gap between technology and farmer.\n\nKVK works on the mandates of...\n\n\nThe KVK has six important sections to cater the needs of the farmers and other associated stakeholders who use land and water for their livelihood. A Training Associate heads each of the section with the duties of Technology transfer, refinement and training. Field days, campaigns and other extension activities are performed under the head of technology transfer on the concrete technologies of the National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Under the refinement mandate the sections perform the Front line Demonstrations (FLD) and On Farm Trails (OFT) are conducted. The sections under the KVK are:\n\n1. Agronomy : This section deals with technology transfer, refinement and training on the advanced crop production technologies with the main goals of raising the production and productivity of different commercial crops. Agronomy section of the KVK at present is taking the charge of disseminating advanced crop production techniques in the new crop introduced in Kerala Vanilla and other cash crops. The different training programmes under the agronomy section are as follows. Interested candidates can write to the Training Programmes Recycling of farm waste Organic farming Apiculture Vanilla cultivation Intercropping in coconut Homestead farming Plant nursery management Scientific Rubber tapping.\n\n2. Agricultural Engineering : The Agricultural Engineering section of the KVK is responsible towards the technology transfer, refinement and training activities for farmers and other target groups in effective utilization of the farm equipments and machineries. The section has developed a low cost paddy winnower and has been popularized in various parts of Kerala. Similarly the section has contributed to a greater extent in disseminating the bio gas technology and smokeless Chulah to various target groups of the district. The training programmes conducted under the section are Production of biogas from organic waste Rainwater harvesting using ferrocement tanks Maintenance of smokeless chulah Improved smokeless chulah Solar equipments Drudgery reducing farm implements.\n\n3. Agricultural Extension : This division carries out trainings for extension functionaries. The division trains different target groups on the sociological aspects of farming. The impact studies of the KVK activities, generation of reports, production of publications, documentation, coordinating the recreational activities of KVK, popularization of certain extension approaches and successful technologies of the KVK by this discipline. The quarterly newsletter and website of the KVK is administered by this division. The training programmes under the discipline are\n\n4. Animal science : This division carries out:\n\n5. Horticulture : The Horticulture division of the KVK deals with the advanced and low cost technology dissemination of fruits, vegetables and flowers. The KVK has a Tissue Culture (TC) lab producing TC banana, orchids and anthuriums. A four-month vocational training programme on aspects of plant propagation and nursery management is conducted for the benefit of the rural youth, farm women, tribals etc., A lab that produces quality mushroom spawn is fully functioning to meet the needs of the mushroom growers. Quality-planting materials of fruit trees and vegetable seeds are produced from the farm maintained by this division. The training programmes under the division are:\n\n6. Home science:The Home science division of the KVK deals with the post harvest technology for the fruits and vegetables. This division coordinates the women cell activities of the KVK. This section deals all women oriented programmes of the KVK with the aim of economic empowerment.The different training programmes conducted under the division are:\n\n7. Fisheries: UK government's Department for International Development (DFID) is funding a project on Enabling Better Management of Fisheries Conflicts, which is coordinated by this division. The training on the subjects of inland fish farming and ornamental fish culture is catered for the practicing fish farmers, rural youth and extension functionaries. The skill-oriented demonstration for the ornamental fish culture is provided with the ornamental fish culture tanks maintained at the KVK with different ornamental fishes. The division is serving as a center for social science research in fisheries. The division has a linkage with several NGOs and GOs working for fisheries development.\n\nThis center is a Production and Training center aimed at upgrading the livelihood skills of rural artisans and youth in the non-farm sector. This includes Pottery, Carpentry, Forging and coir fibre product manufacturing.\n\nResearch and Development in Appropriate Technology\n\nResearch, development and technology transfer programs concentrate on water & sanitation, low-cost construction technology, development of artisan tools and machinery and natural dye. Mitraniketan has a Core-Support group of the Department of Science and Technology (DST), and the Technology Resource Center of CAPART.\n\nMitraniketan Experimentarium for Energy-efficient Technologies (MEET in short) is an upcoming project of Mitraniketan. It is a hands-on science & technology museum with learning games for students focusing on the field of energy conservation, energy efficiency and sustainable energy. It was started as a part of Eco-community Project of Mitraniketan, funded by CISU, Denmark.\n\n"}
{"id": "24316748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24316748", "title": "Mécène Marié de l'Isle", "text": "Mécène Marié de l'Isle\n\nMécène Marié de l'Isle (22 May 1811 – 14 August 1879) was a French musician and opera singer, who used the stage name Marié.\n\nBorn Claude-Marie-Mécène Marié de l'Isle in Château-Chinon, he went to Paris to study music at the Conservatoire, where he won first prize for double-bass in 1830. He began his career as a tenor in the opera chorus of the Opéra-Comique in Paris and made his professional opera début at the opera house in Metz as Raoul in Meyerbeer's \"Les Huguenots\" in 1838. The following year he portrayed his first role at the Opéra-Comique, singing Albert in Louis Clapisson’s \"La symphonie\". In 1840 he had the distinction of portraying Tonio in the world premiere of Donizetti’s \"La fille du régiment\".\n\nMarié left the Opéra-Comique in 1841 to join the roster of principal tenors at the Paris Opera. He remained there through 1844, singing such roles as Eléazar in \"La Juive\", Max in \"Der Freischütz\", Arnold in \"Guillaume Tell\", Raoul, Fernand in \"La favorite\", and the title role in \"Robert le diable\". He began to experience vocal difficulties in his upper register in the mid-1840s and decided to retrain his voice as a baritone. In 1845-1848 he sang his first baritone roles at La Monnaie and in opera houses in Italy.\n\nIn 1848 Marié returned to the Opera where he remained for the rest of his career. While there he sang the title role of \"Guillaume Tell\", Nevers in \"Les Huguenots\", Alphonse in \"La favorite\", and Raimbaud in \"Le comte Ory\". In 1851 he portrayed the role of Alcée in the premiere of Gounod's \"Sapho\". In 1855 he performed the role of Robert in the premiere of Verdi's \"Les vêpres siciliennes\". In 1862 he sang Phanor in the premiere of Gounod's \"La reine de Saba\".\n\nAround 1860 he was the conductor of the orchestra at the Café Charles in Paris. Marié semi-retired from the stage in 1864, but occasionally returned to the stage for performances as late as 1879. He was active as a voice teacher from 1864 up until his death. His pupils included his three daughters, notably Célestine Galli-Marié, who created the title role in the premiere of Bizet's \"Carmen\".\n\nMarié died in Compiègne.\n"}
{"id": "8235415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8235415", "title": "National Steinbeck Center", "text": "National Steinbeck Center\n\nThe National Steinbeck Center is a museum and memorial dedicated to the author John Steinbeck that is located at One Main Street in Salinas, California, the town where Steinbeck grew up.\n\nThe Steinbeck Center Foundation was founded in 1983; the center itself was finished and opened to the public on June 27, 1998. The center houses the largest collection of Steinbeck archives in the United States, with various exhibits on his body of work and philosophy. The Center recently renovated a small exhibit for rotating exhibits within the main exhibit hall. \n\nThe Steinbeck Center is a focal point for activities which encourage learning about literature, human nature, history, agriculture, and the arts. Many educational programs are provided for the public, students and teachers, a multimedia experience for regional and national audiences.\n\nSteinbeck's House is located near the museum.\n\n\"Drawing from the works of John Steinbeck, the National Steinbeck Center is dedicated to Steinbeck’s creative legacy: to participate, to inspire, to educate, and to understand one another.\"\n\nThe building at 1 Main Street in Salinas, California contains an orientation theater, a 2,000 sq. foot exhibit dedicated to the life and works of John Steinbeck, and a Museum Store. \n\nThe building was planned, funded, and eventually erected from 1996 to June, 1998. Entities involved the design and constructions are Brian Kelly, Login, Inc. Williamson-McCarter & Associates, Jerome Kasavan Associates, Thompson Vaivoda & Associates, Lee & Associates, Fehr Engineers, H.A. Ekelin Construction Manager, Formations, Inc. Exhibition Design Firm, and Central Coast Engineers. \n\nIn 2016, the National Steinbeck Center and California State Monterey Bay completed negotiations for CSUMB to purchase the building. Renovations are continuing on the building, known as CSUMB @ Salinas City Center. The National Steinbeck Center continues to function as a non-profit organization that manages the Museum and affiliated programs.\n\nThe National Steinbeck Center Archives constitutes of over 45,000 historical documents, family documents, manuscripts, letters, photographs, films, interviews, and artifacts all pertaining to author John Steinbeck and the history of his hometown of Salinas. The Archives department manages and preserves these holdings. Currently the NSC is working to digitize and make their collection browsable online.\n\nInterested researchers, scholars, historians and students are able to reserve and schedule time to research the collections with the archivist.\n\nEvents and outreach programming makes up the bulk of the National Steinbeck Center's time, effort, and budget. The Center plans and runs over 40 events a year. The major events the Center is known for is the annual Steinbeck Festival, Steinbeck's Birthday Celebration, the Steinbeck Young Authors Program, and the Salinas Valley Comic Con.\n\nOther smaller and reoccurring events happen throughout the year which all tie to Steinbeck's mission and the Center's mission to encourage and support literature, the arts, and other humanities focused causes. \n\nAfter the deal with CSUMB in 2016, the National Steinbeck Center had to reorganize their organization. One of the main efforts embarked upon was partnerships with other local non-profits and cultural groups. The NSC's main partners, although not exhaustive, are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51199348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51199348", "title": "Obrazovanye", "text": "Obrazovanye\n\nObrazovanye (, Education) was a Russian literary and educational magazine, published in Saint Petersburg in 1892–1909, a continuation of an earlier publication called \"Zhenskoye obrazovanye\" (Women's Education, 1876–1891). It was edited originally by Vasily Sipovsky, who in 1896 was succeeded by Alexander Ostrogorsky.\n\nIn 1902 the literary section appeared in the magazine. Among the authors published by \"Obrazovaniye\" were Vikenty Veresayev, Aleksey Chapygin, Evgeny Chirikov, Semyon Yushkevich, Sergei Sergeyev-Tsensky, Mikhail Artsybashev, Anastasiya Verbitskaya and later Alexander Blok, Konstantin Balmont, Ivan Rukavishnikov, Dmitry Merezhkovsky, Zinaida Gippius.\n\nIn the early 1900s the journal, part of the Russian leftist press, published the works by such Bolshevik authors as Vladimir Frische, Anatoly Lunacharsky, Mikhail Olminsky, Vatslav Vorovsky (using the pseudonym P. Orlovsky) and Vladimir Lenin (fragments of \"The Agrarian Questions and the Critics of Marx\" appeared in the 1906, No.2 issue of \"Obrazovanye\").\n\nAfter the 1905 Revolution the magazine drifted to the center right, turned against both Lenin and Gorky, and the Bolshevik fraction advised its members to sever all ties with it.\n"}
{"id": "3884154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3884154", "title": "Ogilvie Institute", "text": "Ogilvie Institute\n\nThe Ogilvie Institute is a college in the Catholic Diocese of Aberdeen, in Scotland, that specialises in part-time and distance-learning courses of religious education and formation, catechesis and theology for adults. \n\nThe institute has close working relationships with both the Open University and Maryvale Institute.\n\n"}
{"id": "50558420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50558420", "title": "Otus (education)", "text": "Otus (education)\n\nOtus is an educational technology company providing a learning management system, data warehouse and many classroom management tools for K-12 students, teachers, parents, and administrators. Otus was nominated as a finalist of two 2016 Codie awards in the \"Best Classroom Management System\" and \"Best K-12 Course or Learning Management Solution\" categories. Otus was a finalist in EdTech Digest's 2016 \"District Data Solution\" and \"Learning Management System\" categories. Otus co-founder Chris Hull was also recently announced as one of the National School Boards Association's \"20 to Watch Educators for 2016\".\n\nFounded in 2012 by Chris Hull and Pete Helfers, two social studies teachers at Illinois' Elm Place Middle School, Otus was designed to replicate the ideal K-12 classroom experience that the two teachers envisioned. After receiving a grant to bring 1:1 computing iPads to their students, both quickly recognized the limitless potential that classroom management tools offer, but were disappointed with the effectiveness of the current apps on the market. Believing that they could do better, Chris and Pete started to develop Otus while continuing to work their respective teaching jobs, their end-goal being to create an all in one classroom management system integrating everything necessary to run a classroom. After reaching out to Chicago-based hedge fund manager Andy Bluhm, who provided them with $2M in funding, Otus was officially launched in August, 2014 and has grown domestically and internationally since. As of May 10, 2016, Otus owns the trademark phrase \"Student Performance Platform.\" Otus has recently partnered with NWEA to become a MAP (Measures of Academic Progress) Authorized Data Partner. Starting Fall 2016, all users of Otus will be able to see and take advantage of MAP data directly in the Otus platform.\n\nOtus competes with other learning management systems such as Edmodo, Blackboard Learn, Schoology, Moodle and Canvas by Instructure to provide educational tools on a district and school wide basis. Otus in particular aims to offer \"everything a mobile classroom could possibly need for both teachers and students\" and does so by providing attendance tracking, a digital bookshelf for uploading files, in-app annotations, assignments, papers, polls, blogs, quizzes, and more. Otus integrates third-party apps, such as Khan Academy, PARCC, and many more through their \"toolbox\" program. Everything a student does through the Otus platform is integrated into a deep learning program called \"analytics\" on the Otus app, which complies information from all first and third-party apps and creates a student profile easily accessible by teachers and parents at the teacher's discretion. Otus is freely available for use by students, teachers, and parents, but requires a subscription fee for district administrators. Otus is available on iOS for teachers and students, and the web for all users.\n\n"}
{"id": "4181798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4181798", "title": "PLANS", "text": "PLANS\n\nPeople for Legal and Non-Sectarian Schools (PLANS) is an organization based in California in the United States which campaigns against the public funding of Waldorf methods charter schools alleging they violate the United States Constitution's separation of church and state. The group claims independent Waldorf schools and public Waldorf methods charter schools teach anthroposophical content, that this content is religious in nature, and that the schools disguise the anthroposophical content from the public. PLANS filed federal suit in 1998 against two California public school districts, Sacramento City Unified School District and Twin Ridges Elementary School District, to halt the Waldorf methods educational programs implemented in two of their schools. The case was ultimately dismissed on its merits in 2012.\n\nThe group was founded in 1995 and became a California non-profit corporation in 1997. Its founding officers, president Debra Snell and secretary Dan Dugan are former Waldorf school parents. The organization numbered less than 50 members when the lawsuit was brought.\n\nThe group describes its mission as to\n\n\nIn February 1998, PLANS filed suit against two California public school districts, Sacramento City Unified School District and Twin Ridges Elementary School District, operating Waldorf-methods schools; one operating a Waldorf-based charter school and the other operating a Waldorf-based magnet school. In the complaint, PLANS argued that it was \"informed and believes that a primary purpose and primary effect of said operation of Waldorf schools is to advance religion, including the religious doctrines of Anthroposophy\", and as such were acting in violation of the First and Fourteenth Amendments of the United States Constitution and Article IX of the California Constitution.\n\nIn response to PLANS' 1999 Motion for Summary Judgement, the Court ruled against their contention that the primary purpose of the program in those schools was to advance religion, finding that the two school districts targeted have a secular, non-religious purpose for implementing Waldorf teaching methods in their schools, but allowed the case to proceed on the second question, whether a primary effect of the programs may be the unintended consequence of endorsing any religion to an extent that violates the Constitution.\n\nThe trial was scheduled on September 12, 2005, and was expected to run for 16 days. The presiding judge determined two issues to be decided in the trial. The first issue was to determine if anthroposophy is a religion for Establishment Clause purposes - the defendants contended it was not. The second issue, which required first an affirmative ruling that anthroposophy is a religion for Establishment Clause purposes, would decide whether the public schools in those two districts were promoting anthroposophy to an extent that violated the U.S. Constitution.\n\nThe trial convened as scheduled, but ended in 30 minutes after PLANS failed in their legal burden to present an offer of proof (proffer) of evidence sufficient to prove anthroposophy was a religion. PLANS' attorney told the court PLANS could not meet its burden, and that as a result of earlier evidentiary rulings before the court, it could furnish no witnesses at trial to testify anthroposophy was a religion. PLANS did attempt to introduce one piece of documentary evidence on the religion issue. Arguments were heard, but no evidence was presented during the trial. The court ruled that PLANS failed its evidentiary burden of proof, and ordered the case be dismissed on the merits.\n\nPLANS filed a notice of appeal of the decision in November, 2005. The appeal claims that the earlier rulings preventing PLANS from calling two defense expert witnesses for their own case-in-chief left them no witnesses able to give evidence that anthroposophy was a religion. The earlier rulings resulted from pretrial motions submitted six months prior to trial. The two witnesses PLANS wished to call were first disclosed by the defendants as witnesses against PLANS in the case. PLANS argues in the appeal that an automatic disclosure rule cited by the judge, though in effect at the time of trial in 2005, was not in effect in 1998 when the case was filed, and claims the witnesses were fully disclosed under the applicable rules.\n\nIn November 2010, the judge in the case dismissed it on its merits a second time. With the exception of one item, the Bylaws of the Anthroposophical Society, all of the plaintiff's evidence was either withdrawn before trial or excluded at trial as inadmissible hearsay. The plaintiff called one percipient witness, not friendly to their cause, and no expert witnesses. In his ruling, the judge cited the plaintiff's attempts to elicit from a percipient witness testimony only allowable from an expert witness, and their \"complete failure to present percipient testimony relevant to the essential issues in the case\" as already sufficient basis for an adverse judgment. He added, however, that aside from the plaintiff's effective failure to present a viable case, \"the evidence suggests that anthroposophy is a method of learning which is available to anyone regardless of their religious or philosophical persuasion. Stated another way, anthroposophy is more akin to a methodology or approach to learning as opposed to a religious doctrine or organized set of beliefs.\" The judge concluded by giving a detailed analysis on the basis of a number of determining factors why anthroposophy should not be judged a religion for Establishment Clause purposes.\n\nAfter its first ruling in 1999, the U.S. District Court—Eastern District of California has issued key rulings on the case in 2001, 2004 and 2005:\n\n\nPLANS secretary Dan Dugan delivered prepared presentations to various organizations and PLANS distributed packets of prepared print materials to school boards which were at the time considering adopting Waldorf methods in their districts. Dugan also established a webpage for the organization and moderated a public email discussion list, devoted to topics on the Waldorf curriculum, anthroposophy, and to discussion related to the Waldorf schools.\n\nIn February 1996, Dugan delivered a slide presentation to the school board in Twin Ridges Elementary School District. The district had been operating a Waldorf-methods charter school for two years. In response to Dugan's presentations, a local committee formed, headed by Baptist pastor, James Morton, and members of the committee argued both in public meetings and through the local media outlets that the school's teachings were in conflict with the US constitution's provision regarding the separation of church and state. Morton soon joined PLANS and took a place on its governing board.\n\nPLANS contacted the California Attorney General in March 1997, arguing for an investigation into Waldorf Methods public schools statewide, urging the officer to act immediately to end the funding of all such schools.\n\nIn April 1997, Dugan delivered arguments against the public funding of Waldorf methods education to a board meeting of the Yuba County Office of Education in Marysville, California. The county operated two schools for juvenile offenders which were both engaged in an experimental project to develop a nationally-replicable Waldorf-based educational model. Shortly after this meeting, PLANS set up a picket line at one of the Yuba County Waldorf-based schools. One of the school's teachers joined the PLANS campaign and became Vice-President of their governing board.\n\nIn spring 1996, PLANS made its first contact with the Sacramento Unified School District to urge district officials there to discontinue their planned Waldorf methods magnet school program. Conversion to the new program was funded in its first two years by a $491,000 federal grant, much of it used to begin training the school's faculty in the Waldorf approach. The magnet program proceeded as planned, and Waldorf methods were adopted at the beginning of the 1996/97 school year at Oak Ridge Elementary School. A parent survey conducted in the following spring indicated parents were mostly satisfied with this new teaching program. Attendance improved and none of the enrolled students applied for transfer during the district's \"open enrollment\" period. But 11 of the 26 teachers requested transfers from Oak Ridge School - half for personal reasons, and the rest objecting to the Waldorf teacher training or to its educational philosophy.\n\nOn April 30, 1997, PLANS officials distributed leaflets entitled, \"Save Oak Ridge School From the Steiner Cult\".\n\nParents formed a local committee called \"Concerned Citizens for Oak Ridge School\". In May, news media reported that controversial statements had been made by parents during an Oak Ridge meeting, accusing the school of teaching the students about witchcraft, human sacrifices, and religious altars, and charging that the children were being initiated into a cult.\n\nSoon after, PLANS held protests in front of the school, and picketers waved flags and anti-Waldorf signs, some demanding the termination of two staff members in the school.\n\nIn a newspaper interview in May, Dugan commented on the independent Waldorf school in Davis: \"They believe that there are spirits behind everything. I know there are people who would call that evil. (They) would consider anthroposophy a satanic religion.\" Dugan, described the educators as \"misguided\", not \"evil\".\n\nIn the summer of 1997, district officials voted unanimously to continue the Waldorf-methods magnet program, but to relocate it to another campus, John Morse Elementary. PLANS sought legal assistance and found lawyer Scott Kendall, an attorney affiliated with the Christian evangelical legal organization, the Pacific Justice Institute (PJI). The PJI applied for a grant on behalf of PLANS, seeking to raise funds from the evangelical Alliance Defense Fund (ADF) to initiate PLANS' legal suit against public school districts operating Waldorf methods schools. The PJI application alleged the Sacramento school engaged in \"Wicca\"-based practices, religious proselytizing and coercion, and that a third of the parents had kept their children home from school in protest. A video copy of a local televised news report about the controversy accompanied the application.\n\nADF awarded a $15,000 grant in February 1998, and immediately after, PLANS filed suit against Sacramento City Unified School District and Twin Ridges Elementary School District, demanding a permanent injunction against the implementation of the Waldorf-methods curriculum in the schools, as well as full reimbursement for all legal costs. PLANS entered into a signed agreement with the Concerned Citizens for Oak Ridge School, promising the organization that in exchange for their efforts assisting PLANS in the lawsuit, PLANS would share one-fifth of any proceeds awarded in the event of a favorable judgement and \"cost multiplier\" fines imposed.\n\nIn December 2000 PLANS hired a private detective to attend a voluntary Winter's Solstice celebration for kindergarten through third-graders that took place in the evening in a privately rented meeting hall. The detective videotaped the ceremony. PLANS played the tape in a presentation to a school board in Chico, California, as evidence that Waldorf teaching methods are religious.\n\nIn ongoing challenges against the Waldorf methods public schools in other districts, PLANS pointedly referenced their pending lawsuit, warning that other districts too would face expensive legal challenges if they allowed Waldorf based methods in any of their schools. PLANS' challenges against Waldorf methods charter schools in the Chico Unified and Ross Valley school districts resulted in the denial of pending charter school proposals there. However, the proponents of those charters soon reapplied in alternative districts nearby and both charters were accepted: the Blue Oaks Charter School, opened September 2001 under Chico's Butte County Office of Education, and the Waldorf-Inspired School of Lagunitas, opened September 2004 in the Lagunitas School District. Sacramento Unified, Twin Ridges Elementary, and Yuba County districts also continue to operate their Waldorf methods programs. Today, there are 19 public schools in California that have adopted the Waldorf methods.\n\nThe Oak Ridge School in Sacramento became the target of threats and accusations that its teachers led children through witchcraft and sorcery practices in the classroom. While neither of these accusations could be attributed to PLANS, school officials accused PLANS of playing to public prejudices and paranoia, and arousing anxieties in the community by presenting a distorted view of their teachings to the parents of the school, most of whom weren't English proficient. Local picketers who joined the PLANS protest against Oak Ridge credited the PLANS leaflets as the initial source of their concerns, and the town's newspaper concurred, pointing to data from the school which indicated that since introducing Waldorf methods there had been positive impacts on absenteeism, voluntary re-enrollment, as well as overall parent satisfaction as measured shortly before PLANS' appearance at the school. The paper's editor accused PLANS of alarming parents with claims for which there was no evidence, including the suggestion that Waldorf methods were disguised witchcraft teachings.\n\nPublic school officials in California's Marysville, Twin Ridges, Novato and Butte schools criticized PLANS as well; a principal in the Yuba County District, which was the target of PLANS' protests over their two Waldorf methods schools, expressed outrage over \"the lies, the distortion of facts\" when questioned by a reporter. In reference to the PLANS lawsuit, the Nevada County superintendent of schools characterized it as \"despicable\" to have to redirect moneys from teachers and curriculum to pay legal costs, and insisted there was no merit to PLANS' accusations. The accuracy and expertise of PLANS officials also came under attack during lawsuit witness hearings. Six of the PLANS board directors and advisors sought to testify as expert witnesses in the case, but each was eliminated due to their lack of expertise on the subjects of anthroposophy and Waldorf education: three were eliminated by the court judge, and the other three subsequently withdrawn voluntarily by PLANS' attorney, Kendall. After reviewing key sections of the deposition testimony taken of PLANS' most vocal spokesperson, Dugan, the judge expressed \"grave doubts about any reliance upon his opinions about anything that has to do with any intellectual endeavor, including anthroposophy\" before ruling that Dugan would not be allowed to give testimony in the trial.\n\nWhen PLANS succeeded in convincing board members in Ross Valley and Chico school districts to vote against proposed Waldorf methods charters there, both proposals were welcomed by other school districts nearby, allowing the new schools to go forward., Local news commentators in one of the targeted communities castigated their local school district for caving to PLANS' threat of a lawsuit, and showcased the episode as one of the most notably \"boneheaded or downright wrong things\" of the past year.\n\nThe Anthroposophical Society in America (ASA), which is the legal representative of anthroposophy in the United States, has challenged PLANS over PLANS' characterizations of anthroposophy, as well as PLANS' suggestion that the anthroposophical movement has a direct interest or involvement in the growth of Waldorf teaching methods in the public schools. These were two claims PLANS made in its May 28, 2004, \"Motion for Summary Judgement\". Though not a direct party to the case, the ASA petitioned the court's permission to respond to this trial motion as a \"friend of the court\". The court granted ASA's petition and, in July 2004, the organization submitted an 18-page legal brief to the court challenging PLANS' assertions.\n\nAdvocates of public Waldorf education claim that Waldorf methods (charter) schools should be able to receive public funding. PLANS claims that although Waldorf representatives often state that a public \"Waldorf methods\" program has been structured so as not to violate the U.S. Constitution, these schools nevertheless have religious underpinnings. Private Waldorf schools celebrate religious festivals and observe religious holidays, for instance. PLANS asserts that in public Waldorf methods schools these activities are not always avoided and are sometimes simply renamed. PLANS alleges that morning verses recited in the public school in which children thank the sun for its warmth are actually prayers, and claim that the sun is a metaphor Steiner used to refer to Christ. In public Waldorf methods schools in the U.S., \"God\" has been removed from the verse and replaced with \"the Sun\" to avoid violation of the U.S. Constitution. PLANS claims this is a cosmetic and not a substantive change.\n\nPLANS also claims that not only private, but also public, Waldorf methods schools are anthroposophical institutions. According to PLANS, public Waldorf teachers are required in most cases to take Waldorf teacher training in which they are asked to read works almost exclusively by Rudolf Steiner, the founder of Waldorf education, the focus of which are Steiner's tenets of anthroposophy.\n\nThe two Waldorf methods public schools PLANS brought to court presented numerous witnesses and introduced documents which contradicted this claim. The judge ruled that PLANS could not introduce evidence taken in the context of the private and independent Waldorf schools to argue their case against the public Waldorf-methods schools. The court ruled that private schools are separate entities, and insisted evidence be limited to policies and practices in effect within the litigated public school districts. The two schools furnished statements and documents in this case showing that the teachers in their Waldorf methods schools were held to the same state mandated training and credential requirements as the teachers in other public schools in those districts. In response to a demand to prepare a complete list of all Waldorf-related documents and reading materials related to training or instruction in Waldorf teaching methods, neither school district identified a single text written by Rudolf Steiner. Betty Staley, the Rudolf Steiner College staff member who developed the public teacher training program, testified the college's \"1993-1994 Teacher Training Booklists\" did not apply to the public teacher training program, and that only one of the texts from the lists, Steiner's \"Philosophy of Freedom\", was used by the program.\n\nIn their trial case, PLANS did not repeat their claim that these or other texts by Steiner were required in the public Waldorf-methods teacher training. However, they did claim that the schools \"provide[d] books for its teachers that are filled with Anthroposophical doctrine\", and that teachers were \"hire[d] because of their Anthroposophical training.\" According to Staley's testimony, references to spirituality were eliminated from the public Waldorf teachers’ training materials to meet state standards. One teacher who had participated in this program before adopting Waldorf methods in her teaching in the Oak Ridge, and later John Morse schools, reported that Steiner’s philosophy was alluded to in her training and that teachers who wanted to learn more could pay for their own classes, but that most of her colleagues from Morse did not pursue any anthroposophical training in the course of becoming public Waldorf methods teachers.\n\nPLANS claims the basis of anthroposophy is esoteric Christianity. In court documents, PLANS argued that Rudolf Steiner considered himself a Christian and that he considered anthroposophy to be a Christian form of theosophy and Rosicrucianism. PLANS argued that Steiner himself described anthroposophy as a training to access skills of psychic awareness latent in each human being, and argued that the discipline \"spiritual science\" is not a true science nor philosophy, but a theology. PLANS acknowledged that Steiner's supporters frequently concede the spiritual foundations of anthroposophy and Waldorf education, but claimed they make a false distinction between \"spiritual\" and \"religious\". PLANS considered anthroposophy to be part of a New Age religious movement, characterized by its seekers' rejection of orthodoxy and creedal forms of religious expression in favor of a more eclectic and individualized path of spiritual-psychological transformation, a process which PLANS claimed to be generally acknowledged as \"religious experience\".\n\nPLANS wanted the court to agree that Waldorf methods schools lead students through New Age rituals and interpret them as religious practices. It also wanted the court to agree that in the schools, anthroposophy permeates every subject, and that the underlying theory of the education is based on theology, not philosophy. In order to do this, PLANS first needed to convince the court that anthroposophy was a religion. This attempt was unsuccessful, and PLANS seeks to reverse the decision in appeals court.\n\nSome supporters of Waldorf education have suggested that Waldorf education does not belong in government schools. Eugene Schwartz is a prominent teacher and author who has stated that he agreed with Dugan that Waldorf education could not properly be separated from anthroposophy. In Schwartz's view, although Waldorf education is not sectarian, the children are intended to have inwardly religious experiences. In his speech he exemplified this with the way the origin and history of the Jews is taught in grade three in independent Waldorf schools. Schwartz was fired from his position at a teaching college shortly after the speech, and in a later interview, claimed there were many other Waldorf teachers who agreed with him but were afraid to speak out. In Schwartz's opinion, Waldorf education has the goal of making \"everything sacramental\", and that \"willing, feeling, and thinking\" are \"soul forces\" which are intentionally brought to every aspect of the education. Schwartz objected to educators who would reject the movement's religious aspect to suit the requirements of public education. In the interview, Schwartz lamented the fact that, in his view, public Waldorf methods schools are watered-down imitations of authentic Waldorf education.\n\nSchwartz has since become an active promoter of Waldorf education in charter and public schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "56944978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56944978", "title": "Peter Finch Martineau", "text": "Peter Finch Martineau\n\nPeter Finch Martineau (12 June 1755 – 2 December 1847) was an English businessman and a philanthropist, with particular interest in improving the lives of disadvantaged people through education.\n\nA Unitarian, he was born into the renowned Martineau family of Norwich and christened in the Octagon Chapel. His eldest brother Philip Meadows Martineau became a distinguished surgeon and his youngest brother Thomas fathered sociologist Harriet Martineau and religious philosopher James Martineau. Engineer John Martineau was another of Peter's nephews.\n\nHis first wife Susannah Scott had one son and his second marriage to Catherine Marsh brought him five more children, of whom Peter Martineau Jr was the oldest and Catherine Jr their first daughter – she married solicitor Edward Foss. Peter Jr wed Eliza Barnard and then Mary Anne, the sister of his schoolmate Sir Francis Ronalds. Peter Jr and Mary Anne's children included Sarah, whose husband was brewer and benefactor Charles Edward Flower. Peter and Catherine were buried at West Norwood Cemetery.\n\nPeter Finch Martineau was active in various distinct businesses through his life. He was first a textile dyer in Norwich with his older brother David. He, David and their younger brother John then established a brewery at the King's Arms Stairs (one of the watermen's stairs on the Thames), which merged with Whitbread in 1812. Next followed a sugar-refining partnership in Goulston Street, Whitechapel with his son Peter Jr, which continued until around the latter’s death in 1869; Peter Jr patented an important new process for clarifying sugar in 1815 with his cousin John Martineau. Peter Finch also opened a bank in St Albans after he moved there in 1818.\n\nThe family in addition invested in mining operations in Devon, Cornwall and overseas, managed by Peter Jr's second cousin John Taylor. These included the Wheal Friendship mine at Mary Tavy and United Mines near Redruth. They also held Directorships in various Assurance companies: Peter Finch in the Hand in Hand Fire Insurance Society, and Peter Jr in the Equitable Assurance Office – he also served as auditor of the Phoenix Fire Assurance Company. \n\nThe Martineaus supported a wide range of targeted education initiatives. Peter Finch was an early Governor of the African Institution, founded by abolitionists when they succeeded in making the British slave trade illegal. He helped establish the School for the Indigent Blind in 1800 and was still chairing its meetings nearly half a century later – the organisation continues today as SeeAbility. He was also a Governor of the London Asylum for the Support and Education of the Deaf and Dumb Children of the Poor; the House of Refuge for Orphan Girls; and the Refuge for the Destitute, which assisted people discharged from prison to enter the workforce. Finally, he served as Vice-President of the Manchester Academy Nonconformist higher education institution in York for nearly two decades. \n\nLike others in his family, Martineau was Whig cum Radical in his politics. A friend of the political philosopher William Godwin, he joined the London Revolution Society and was an energetic supporter of Norwich MP William Smith. He later served as Deputy Lieutenant of Hertfordshire. Peter Jr played an active role in the Anti-Corn Law League from its beginnings in the late 1830s, where he chaired large meetings in the boroughs where he lived and worked to garner support for the removal of import duties.\n"}
{"id": "13792959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13792959", "title": "Raymond Persinger", "text": "Raymond Persinger\n\nRaymond Persinger (born 1959) is an American artist best known for his large bronze sculptures and public art installations. \n\nPersinger has created sculptures for many public and private collections, including the City of Brea, California, Chapman University and the National Geographic Museum. His work has been selected for various exhibits by prominent curators, including Smithsonian Institution curator Dr. Virginia Mecklenburg, curator and Los Angeles-based critic Peter Frank, and LACMA curator Michele Urton.\n\nPersinger studied with Kenn Glenn, Stephen Werlick, Robert Graham and George Segal. He holds a bachelor's degree from California State University, Long Beach, and a Master of Fine Arts (MFA) from California State University, Fullerton.\n\nIn 1986, Persinger began working at Dinamation, where he created life-sized sculptures of dinosaurs, extinct mammals and sea creatures for use in museum exhibits and worked as project director and manager/art director of the sculpture department. He was credited for his claw structure theory in James Kirkland's original paper on the dinosaur \"Utahraptor\". He left Dinamation in 1996. Persinger also worked as a freelance artist for Disneyland’s Entertainment Arts.\n\nPersinger was the sculpture program chair at the Laguna College of Art and Design from 1995 through 2013, during this period the sculpture program was considered one of the best figurative sculpture programs in the country. \n\nIn 2008, SIAS University in China's Henan Province invited Persinger and several other artists to participate in an International Sculpture Symposium. Persinger's finished sculpture will be placed at the entrance of the SIAS campus sculpture garden. \n\nAs of 2008, Persinger was working on a Holocaust Monument project with poet and Holocaust survivor Peter Fischl. This monument will be placed at several museums around the world.\n\nPersinger has recently turned to relief images in glass that examine the spiritual connection between man and nature.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8954630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8954630", "title": "Report card", "text": "Report card\n\nA report card, or just report in British English, communicates a student's performance academically. In most places, the report card is issued by the school to the student or the student's parents twice to four times yearly. A typical report card uses a grading scale to determine the quality of a student's school work. Throughout North America, the grading scale consists of grades scored in classes taken by the student. Report cards are now frequently issued in automated form by computers and may be mailed to parents and students. Traditional school report cards contained a section for teachers to record individual comments about the student's work and behavior. Some automated card systems provide for teachers' including such comments, but others limit the report card to grades only.\n\nThe term \"Report card\" is used to describe any systematic listing and evaluation of something for information. For example, many states in the United States have their education departments issue report cards on schools' performance. Political advocacy groups will often issue \"report cards\" on legislators, \"grading\" them based on their stances on issues.\n\nIn Former Yugoslavia the role of report cards is widely fulfilled by \"Svedočanstva\" (\"Testimonies\"), in which all final (annual) grades throughout the entire level of education, as well as any negative or positive critique the student is given, and all of his other school institution-related accomplishments are kept.\n\nIn some elementary schools students typically receive three to four report cards. The academic year is separated into three terms (Sept-Dec, Dec-Mar, Mar-June) and at the end of each term the student will get a report card. It is often followed by a break of some sort. For example; First term Christmas Holidays, second term March break and third term Summer Holidays. Some school districts may administer report cards on a quarterly basis, usually after each nine week term.\n\nIn some secondary schools students receive two report cards, one at the end of each grading period. They also get mid-term report cards midway through the grading period. For example; a semester goes from Sept-Jan and Jan-June. This would not count for summer school. Some school districts may administer the report card on a trimester or quarterly schedule as well.\n\nAdditionally, in the United States, progress reports may be issued to track a student's performance in between report cards. They are typically issued at the midpoint of a grading period, (for example: 4½ weeks into a nine-week grading period, or three weeks into a six-week grading period) and contain virtually the same information as the report card. These reports allow students and their parents to see if school performance is slipping and if intervention is required to bring up the grade.\n\nEnglish secondary schools would traditionally issue a written report, no more regularly than once a year. This is changing, however, with many schools now publishing reports similar to a grade report. Pupils at key stage 3 are typically awarded a national curriculum level (up to 8th grade), while GCSE students will be awarded a grade (from A* to G, or U- from 9 to 1 with the new grading system). In 2010 the Government agency for ICT in education, BECTA, put in place a requirement for school report cards for all pupils in the comprehensive school system to have their reports made available to parents online (see also electronic grade book).\n\nIn Ontario, provincially standardized report cards are issued at the end of each term. In elementary schools (Grades 1-8) 2 separate report cards are used: The Elementary Progress Report, used between October 20 and November 20 of the school year, and the Elementary Provincial Report Card, used at the end of Term 1 (sent home between January 20 and February 20 of the academic year) and at the end of Term 2 (sent home toward the end of June of the school year).\n\nKindergarten report cards are also provincially standardized as of the 2016-2017 school year. These are strictly comment based report cards and are issued on the same schedule that the grade 1-8 report cards are issued.\n\nNote - As of 2018, only the public and catholic school boards in Ontario are required to used the provincial report cards. Many private schools choose to use the provincial report card to maintain the standards set by Ontario's Ministry of Education.\n\nThe report cards for Grade 1-6 use a common template. The first quarter of page 1 shows the student's information. The bottom 3/4's of the first page includes the Learning Skills descriptors regarding the student's behaviour, teacher comments on the learning skills and overall level for each skill (marked on a scale of E -Excellent, G -Good, S -Satisfactory, N -Needs Improvement). The learning skill categories are Organization, Collaboration, Initiative, Independent Work, Self-Regulation, and Responsibility. Page 2 and 3 contain all of the core subjects. Ontario's education includes seven mandatory subjects: English, Second Language (French or Native), Mathematics, Science and Technology, Social Studies, Health and Physical Education and The Arts. English, French, Mathematics and Art are further divided into Reading, Writing, Oral Communication and Media Literacy for English, Listening, Speaking, Reading and Writing for Second Language, Number Sense and Numeration, Measurement, Geometry and Spatial Sense, Patterning and Algebra and Data Management and Probability for Mathematics, and Music, Visual Arts and Drama, and Dance for The Arts. Subject specific comments appear beside the marks for each subject. Page 4 details the marking scale used on the report card, possible marks include R (Remediation required), I (insufficient evidence) D-, D, D+, C-, C, C+, B-, B, B+, A-, A, and A+.is for Parent Comments and Signatures and also for Students to plan goals for the future. 'A' marks mean the student is exceeding the provincial standard, 'B' marks mean that they are meeting the provincial standard, 'C' marks mean that the student is approaching the provincial standard and D marks mean that the student falls below the provincial standard.\n\nThe grade 7 and 8 template has a few differences from the 1-6 report card. This report card displays the median for the subject/strand/course. Social Studies is also divided into History and Geography. The 7 and 8 report card offers percentage marks instead of letter grades. These marks are still viewed as equivalent letters as detailed in the above grade 1-6 information. \n\nIn many elementary schools in North America, a \"Check System\" is used in the primary grades (kindergarten to third grade) in place of letter grades. Teachers give a Check for at the given grade's level, Check Plus for advanced, and Check Minus for below the given grade's level.\n\nA similar system is used for informal, low-stakes grading in US colleges, particularly in the humanities, and especially for short writing samples, such as reaction papers or in-class writing. This serves as an alternative to a numerical or letter grade. Here a check means \"acceptable\" or \" at the expected level\", check plus means \"better than expected\", \"good\" or outstanding\", and check minus means \"below expectations\", \"unacceptable\" and \"bad\". The system may also be supplemented by a 0 (zero) for not done or not applicable. The system is informal, and has variations – the work may not count for the final grade or may count for a small amount. If so, the plus/check/minus may or may not be different in value, with any form of check simply counting as participation.\n\nDue to their status as significant documents in many formal education systems, many early grade reports were printed on cardboard, card-stock paper, or other heavy paper-based materials that were heavier, more durable, and less bendable than standard-weight paper. Many formal education systems also standardize the dimensions of their grades reports to be as long and wide as large index cards. Because of these card-like qualities, the creators and receivers of such print-based grade reports have historically called them \"report cards.\"\n\nAlthough the dimensions, weight, and pliability of report cards change depending on their education systems, many institutions and districts now print grades reports/report cards on standard 8.5\"x11\" copy/printer paper.\n\nIn the U.K., report cards were cards which misbehaving students were required to carry with them to each class, at the end of which the teacher would enter a failing or passing grade in conduct for that class. Usually the student was required to carry the card for a week and finish the week with no failing grades in order to be relieved of having to present the card for the following week. In the United States, these were called \"conduct cards\" in many schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "45450807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45450807", "title": "Ruan Yisan Heritage Foundation", "text": "Ruan Yisan Heritage Foundation\n\nThe Ruan Yisan Heritage Foundation is a non-governmental, non-profit organization created on June 9, 2006, \"to support and promote urban heritage conservation in China. It is a private foundation supervised by the Shanghai Administration Bureau of NGOs and Shanghai Municipal Urban Planning Administration Bureau.\" Founder Ruan Yisan is a former professor of urban planning at Tongji University of Shanghai and director of the National Research Center for Historic Cities in Shanghai. The Foundation is a member of the International National Trusts Organisation.\n\n"}
{"id": "11255493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11255493", "title": "Select Entry Accelerated Learning", "text": "Select Entry Accelerated Learning\n\nA Select Entry Accelerated Learning (SEAL) program is a form of streaming used in government secondary schools in Victoria, Australia to provide a focused educational environment for academically gifted children.\n\nThe program allows students to undertake Year 8 work in Year 7, and the option to complete their secondary education in five years instead of six, or students can choose to undertake a more comprehensive Victorian Certificate of Education that takes three years instead of two.\n\nVictoria currently has four government secondary schools which are entirely selective entry: Melbourne High School, Mac.Robertson Girls' High School, Nossal High School and Suzanne Cory High School, plus five selective schools: John Monash Science School (which has a science focus), Victorian College of the Arts Secondary School (which specialises in dance, music and visual arts), Maribyrnong Secondary College (with specialist sport programs), the Flying Fruit Fly Circus School, and The Alpine School (an intensive leadership and enterprise program for year 9).\n\nIn 2016, the Department of Education stopped accrediting the SEAL program, with a spokesman saying that schools that offer the program should offer enrolment to local students before students outside the school's zoning region.\n\nAs a form of streaming, SEAL programs by their very nature attract criticism from those committed to the principles of comprehensive education. Additionally, because they are not offered by every school, the schools that run them are argued to take away the top students from schools that don't, thus leading to a pool of less diverse schools and a concentration of bright students in a small number of schools.\n\nSecondary schools in Victoria offering SEAL programs:\n"}
{"id": "54292928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54292928", "title": "Sentinus", "text": "Sentinus\n\nSentinus is the national organisation (educational charity) in Northern Ireland (Ulster) that promotes STEM subjects, across the province, at school and in industry. It offers outreach for science education.\n\nNorthern Ireland produces around 2,000 qualified IT workers each year; there are around 16,000 IT jobs in the Northern Ireland economy.\n\nIt works with EngineeringUK and the Council for the Curriculum, Examinations & Assessment (CCEA). It works with primary and secondary schools in Northern Ireland. \n\nIt runs summer placements for IT workshops for those of sixth form age (16-18). It offers \"Robotics Roadshows\" for primary school children.\n\nIt is headquartered on the B104, off the A520, towards Magheragall in the west of Lisburn in County Down.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44633463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44633463", "title": "Shimer College Core Program", "text": "Shimer College Core Program\n\nThe core curriculum of Shimer College is a sequence of 16 required courses humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, and interdisciplinary<nowiki> </nowiki>studies. \"Basic Studies\" courses are generally taken during the first two years, and \"Advanced Studies\" during the final two years. The \"Advanced Integrative Studies\" courses, numbered are taken in the final year.\n\nIn addition to required core classes, \"electives\" offer in-depth work in a particular subject, or basic skills instruction. \"Tutorials \"follow a similar protocol, but with only one or two students per course, and are similar in structure to the Oxford-Cambridge supervision system.\n\nSmall seminars are sole form of instruction. Classes are composed of no more than twelve students, and read and discuss only original source material. <nowiki> </nowiki>\n\nThrough a process Shimer internally calls \"shared inquiry\", \"the text is the teacher, and thus the faculty member's role is to facilitate interaction between the text and the students\",as well as between the students themselves. Readings are also organized by broad historical and philosophical themes, rather than conventional fields.\n\nFaculty are always addressed by first name. Teachers \"facilitate\" discussion, and therefore may talk little during actual class-time. Often teachers provide historical and relational information not available from other students or the text itself.\n\nShimer's current 200-book reading list remains largely faithful to the original Hutchins plan; however, new works are judiciously added to the core curriculum. These have included voices originally overlooked in the formation of the canon. Now included, for example, are works by Martin Luther King, Jr., Carol Gilligan, Frantz Fanon, and Michel Foucault, along with other contemporary authors.\n\nThe humanities core begins with the study of visual art and music, and progresses through literature, philosophy, and theology. The culminating course, \"Critical Evaluation in the Humanities,\" attempts to approach all the areas of the Humanities through critical evaluation of significant works of the 18th century and later. This course includes Martin Buber's I and Thou, Immanuel Kant's Critique of Judgment, Friedrich Nietzsche's Beyond Good and Evil, and Søren Kierkegaard's Fear and Trembling.\n\nThe social sciences sequence opens with major works regarding the individual and society, and proceeds to classical political thought. Advanced courses investigate modern social and political theory, and conclude with the \"Theories of Social Inquiry\". This course focuses on interpretive methods in sociology, linguistic theory, and 20th century social thought, through works including Clifford Geertz's The Interpretation of Cultures, Paolo Freire's Pedagogy of the Oppressed, Michel Foucault's Discipline and Punish, and Karl Mannheim's Ideology and Utopia.\n\nThe natural sciences course examines the historical course of modern theory, beginning with the presocratic philosophers of the 6th century BCE and progressing to the development of the theory of atoms. The second course traces the evolution of theories of evolution, genetics, and animal behavior. The development of models of infinitesmals, optics, and relativity are covered in the third course. The capstone course traces the study of quantum physics and modern molecular biology. The natural science reading list includes Albert Einstein’s Relativity, Isaac Newton’s Opticks, Richard Feynman’s QED, Antoine Lavoisier’s Elements of Chemistry, and Charles Darwin’s Origin of Species.\n\nThe first basic integrative studies course historically intended to develop fundamental skills in close reading and argumentation students required to further work with original source texts. The content of this course has been modified, and is fulfilled by fourth and fifth level courses, usually reserved for transfer students.\n\nThe second course, normally the first taken, the development of logic and mathematics are studied through readings in geometry and axiomatic systems from ancient and modern times.\n\nThe advanced integrative studies courses are the capstone courses of the Shimer curriculum. The readings are arranged chronologically in a unified, full-year sequence to demonstrate their historical relationships, beginning with the ancient epic poems The Epic of Gilgamesh and Homer's Iliad, and concluding with Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's Faust and Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel's Reason in History. Students are encouraged to explore connections between assigned texts and those studied in other courses.\n\nBeyond assessment of performance in every class (often accounting for over 50% of a student's course grade), Shimer College requires and assesses the production of a number of significant projects throughout a student's undergraduate tenure.\n\nStudents not \nattempting their Comprehensive Examinations, or working on their Senior Thesis, are required to complete a \"Semester Project\" during the final week of each term (known as \"Writing Week\"). These projects focus on a topic chosen by students in conjunction with an advisor. These projects do not receive a grade, but are reviewed by the student's instructors, and must be approved before the student can register for the following semester.\n\nStudents are required to complete a substantial original research paper, usually undertaken in the third-level Social Science course, before registering for advanced Integrative Studies courses.\n\nStudents must pass<nowiki> </nowiki>at least two comprehensive examinations to graduate. After completing the Basic Studies courses all students must pass the Basic Studies Comprehensive Examination to continue on to higher level courses.<nowiki> </nowiki>After completing the Advanced Studies courses, students must pass at least one Area Studies Comprehensive Examination, usually in their area of concentration, in order to graduate. \n\nEach comprehensive<nowiki> </nowiki>examination involves a week of exercises in reading and writing, as well as an oral component often taking the form of a Socratic seminar.\n\nEvery student must complete a Senior Thesis in order to graduate, primarily completed during the student's final year. Fulfillment usually takes the form of an analytical or expository essay, but may be a piece of original fiction, poetry, performance, or work of visual art. Students are encouraged to defend their theses orally and the public is invited to these defenses.\n\nTheir senior year, Shimer students who take the Graduate Record Exam\n(GRE) typically outscore three of four other potential graduate \nstudents and \"consistently rank among the best in the nation in scores \non the verbal and analytical portions of the test\", with average \nanalytic scores in the 91st percentile.\n"}
{"id": "2842192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2842192", "title": "Spelling Bee of Canada", "text": "Spelling Bee of Canada\n\nThe Spelling Bee of Canada is a charitable, educational spelling bee organization founded by Julie Spence in the Greater Toronto Area in 1987. As of 2012 over 46,000 children have participated in the competition.\n\nThe SBOC holds an annual spelling competition for children 6–14 years of age. Participants are divided into three age categories: primary, 6–8; junior, 9–11; and intermediate, 12–14. 15+ students will become mentors to participants in their region.\n\nThough SBOC operates primarily in Ontario, contestants from other provinces are allowed to register and have competed in the past.\n\nJulie Spence founded SBOC in order to engage parents and children. Spelling bees were popular in Jamaica where she grew up, and she recalls realizing during the competitions \"how much [it] brought people together\". She is happy with the growth of SBOC but disappointed by the extremely low number of black participants, and she has encountered many black parents who do not want their children to compete. Veronica Taylor, a Barbadian-born mental health counsellor and the president of SBOC's Hamilton chapter, is also concerned about the lack of black participation, saying that black parents are not encouraging their children but letting them decide if they want to compete. Laurel Broten, Ontario's Minister of Education, praised the SBOC for helping children in the primary, junior and intermediate age ranges improve their vocabulary and public speaking. \"As Minister of Education, I understand the importance of the work you do to help youth across Ontario enrich their learning and build self-confidence,\" she said.\n\nAt the 24th Championship Finals in May 2011 at the Delta Chelsea Hotel in Toronto, ON Maya Sen Chawla made history for her home region London, where she became the first ever Spelling Bee of Canada National Champion to hail from London.\n\nThe 2014 SBOC finals took place on 11 May 2014 at the Eaton Chelsea in Toronto. The regional competition in April 2014 had 3,000 participants, 84 of whom went on to the finals. The championship title comes with over $10,000 in cash prizes. This year's competition also marks the opening of three new regional chapters; the Aga Khan Education Board, Khalsa School of British Columbia, and the Toronto Community Housing chapter.\n\nRogers TV Spelling Bee of Canada 28th Championship had its finals on Sunday May 3, 2015 at The Ismaili Centre - Social Hall, 49 Wynford Dr., Toronto. 91 contestants competed in the finals. New additions to this year's regional competitions include; Toronto Bayview and Sheppard's YMCA, British Columbia's IWE Learning Centre and the Cultural Youth Initiative in Edmonton.\n\nRogers TV Spelling Bee of Canada 29th Championship finals were held on Sunday May 15, 2016 at the Ismaili Centre again. 93 participants from the 31 regional competitions competed in this year's finals. New additions to this year's regional competitions include a \"First Nation's\" chapter from Saskatchewan, and a new chapter from British Columbia – showing the increasing popularity in the spelling bee.\n\n"}
{"id": "748629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=748629", "title": "Student rights in higher education", "text": "Student rights in higher education\n\nStudent rights are those rights, such as civil, constitutional, contractual and consumer rights, which regulate student rights and freedoms and allow students to make use of their educational investment. These include such things as the right to free speech and association, to due process, equality, autonomy, safety and privacy, and accountability in contracts and advertising, which regulate the treatment of students by teachers and administrators. There is very little scholarship about student rights throughout the world. In general most countries have some kind of student rights (or rights that apply in the educational setting) enshrined in their laws and proceduralized by their court precedents. Some countries, like Romania, in the European Union, have comprehensive student bills of rights, which outline both rights and how they are to be proceduralized. Most countries, however, like the United States and Canada, do not have a cohesive bill of rights and students must use the courts to determine how rights precedents in one area apply in their own jurisdictions.\n\nCanada, like the United States, has a number of laws and court precedents which regulate higher education and provide student rights. The Canadian Encyclopedia, which details issues of Canadian life and governance, states that in Canada \"Basically two sorts of rights apply to students: substantive rights – the actual rights that students should enjoy – and procedural rights – methods by which students claim their rights. This article is concerned with students in public institutions, although those in private schools can claim rights under the common law and provincial education Acts.\"\n\nCanada does not yet have a national student Bill of Rights or comparable document. If and when one is put in place in Canada it is likely that this document will be called a Charter of Student Rights and Freedoms. The Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms is equivalent to the National Bill of Rights in the United States. The Canadian national student union or government is the Canadian Federation of Students and it has not put forth any such bill.\n\nIn the AlBaho Case, a French criminal court found three senior academics at the \"École Supérieure de Physique et de Chimie Industrielles de la Ville de Paris\" (ICPSE) guilty of email espionage. This was the first incident where academic staff were found guilty of a criminal act as a result of a complaint made by a student – and where those staff members had the full support of their institution.\n\nIn the US, students have many rights accorded by bills or laws (e.g. the Civil Rights Act and Higher Education Act) and executive presidential orders. These have been proceduralized by the courts to varying degrees. The US does not, however, have a national Student Bill of Rights and students rely on institutions to voluntarily provide this information. While some colleges are posting their own student bills, there is no legal requirement that they do so and no requirement that they post all legal rights.\n\nDecision making should not be arbitrary or capricious / random and, thus, interfere with fairness. While this case concerned a private school, \"Healy v. Larsson\" (1974) found that what applied to private intuitions applied also to public.\nInstitutions are required, contractually, to follow their own rules. Institutional documents may also be considered binding implied-n-fact contracts. \"Goodman v. President and Trustees of Bowdoin College\" (2001) ruled that institutional documents are still contractual regardless if they have a disclaimer.\nStudents are protected from deviation from information advertised in bulletins or circulars.\nStudents are protected from deviation from information advertised in regulations.\nStudents are protected from deviation from information advertised in course catalogues.\nStudents are protected from deviation from information advertised in student codes.\nStudents are protected from deviation from information advertised in handbooks.\n\"Healy v. Larsson\" (1974) found that a student who completed degree requirements prescribed by an academic advisor was entitled to a degree on the basis that this was an implied contract.\n\"Mississippi Medical Center v. Hughes\" (2000) determined that students have an implied right to a continuous contract during a period of continuous enrollment suggesting that students have the right to graduate so long as they fulfill the requirements as they were originally communicated. Degree requirement changes are unacceptable. \"Bruner v. Petersen\" (1997) found also that contractual protections do not apply in the event that a student, who has failed to meet requirements, is readmitted into a program. The student may be required to meet additional requirements which support their success. This may also help avoid issues of discrimination.\n\"Brody v. Finch University of Health Sciences Chicago Med. School\" (1998) determined that students have the right to notice of degree requirement changes.\nVerbal contracts are also binding. \"The North Carolina Court of Appeals in Long v. University of North Carolina at Wilmington\" (1995) found, however, that verbal agreements must be made in an official capacity in order to be binding (Bowden, 2007). \"Dezick v. Umpqua Community College\" (1979) found a student was compensated because classes offered orally by the dean were not provided.\n\nVerbal contracts are binding. They must be made in an official capacity, however, to be binding. \"Dezick v. Umpqua Community College\" (1979) found a student was compensated because classes offered orally by the dean were not provided. \"Healy v. Larsson\" (1974) found that a student who completed degree requirements prescribed by an\nacademic advisor was entitled to a degree on the basis that this was an implied contract. An advisor should, thus, be considered an official source of information.\n\"Mississippi Medical Center v. Hughes\" (2000) determined that students have an implied right to a continuous contract during a period of continuous enrollment suggesting that students have the right to graduate so long as they fulfill the requirements as they were originally communicated. Degree requirement changes are unacceptable. \"Bruner v. Petersen\" (1997) found also that contractual protections do not apply in the event that a student, who has failed to meet requirements, is readmitted into a program. The student may be required to meet additional requirements which support their success. This may also help avoid issues of discrimination.\n\"Brody v. Finch University of Health Sciences Chicago Med. School\" (1998) determined that students have the right to notice of degree requirement changes (Kaplan & Lee, 2011). If a student, for instance, is absent for a semester and is not continuously enrolled they need to know if degree requirements have changed.\nDecision making should not be arbitrary or capricious / random and, thus, interfere with fairness. This is a form of discrimination. While this case concerned a private school, \"Healy v. Larsson\" (1974) found that what applied to private intuitions applied also to public.\n\nThe 2008 Higher Education Opportunity Act (HOEA, 2008) requires that institutions disclose institutional statistics on the Department of Education (DOE) website to allow students to make more informed educational decisions. Information required on the DOE website includes: tuition, fees, net price of attendance, tuition plans, and statistics including sex, ability, ethnic and transfer student ratios as well as ACT/SAT scores, degrees offered, enrolled, and awarded. Institutions are also required to disclose transfer credit policies and articulation agreements.\nThe 1990 Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) and Section 504 of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act prohibits ability discrimination in academic recruitment. This includes ability discrimination in recruitment. Individuals designated with a disability by a medical professional, legally recognized with a disability and deemed otherwise qualified are entitled to equal treatment and reasonable accommodations. The Supreme Court defined Otherwise qualified as an individual who can perform the required tasks in spite of rather than except for their disability.\n\nTitle IX of the 1972 Higher Education Act Amendments protect all sexes from pre-admission inquiries with regard to pregnancy, parental status, family or marital status. It can be seen that this act also protects against such inquiry regarding inter-sexed, transsexual, transgender or androgynous individuals.\nThe 1990 Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) and Section 504 of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act. This includes ability discrimination in admissions. Individuals designated with a disability by a medical professional, legally recognized with a disability and deemed otherwise qualified are entitled to equal treatment and reasonable accommodations in both educational and employment related activities. The Supreme Court defined Otherwise qualified as an individual who can perform the required tasks in spite of rather than except for their disability.\nIndividuals may not be discriminated against on the basis of their color in either undergraduate or graduate school admissions.\nProtection from discrimination in admissions entails that students receive accommodations required to prove they are otherwise qualified, protection from unfair testing practices, testing accommodations for speech, manual and hearing disabilities and access to alternative testing offered in accessible facilities. Alternative testing must also be offered as frequently as are standard tests. Where no alternative testing exists, institutions, however, are not responsible for accommodations.\nEducational tests which are biased in favor of one gender, may not be relied upon as the sole source of information decision making.\nStudents' equality entails that individuals not be treated differently by individuals or systematically by an institution. Thus, testing policies which systematically discriminate, are unlawful according to the constitution. \"United States v. Fordice\" (1992) prohibited the use of ACT scores in Mississippi admissions, for instance, because the gap between ACT scores of white and black student was greater than the GPA gap which was not considered at all.\nWhen a school has engaged in racial discrimination in the past they are required by law to take race conscious affirmative action to correct it.\nWhite students are protected from racial discrimination at historic minority institutions. Racial equality calls for the equal treatment of all individuals; it does not permit, however, lower admissions test requirements or subjective judgments for racial minorities when there are objective standards in place for all applicants.\nThere may be no segregation in the admissions process including subjective interviews when there are objective standards in place for all applicants.\nStudents are protected from the use of lower admissions test scores.\nStudents are protected from the use of quotas which set aside seats for certain demographics.\nStudents are protected from deviation from information advertised in registration materials. This may be a binding implied-in-fact contract. \"Goodman v. President and Trustees of Bowdoin College\" (2001) ruled that institutional documents are still contractual regardless if they have a disclaimer.\n\nInstitutions must be careful with readmissions after students have failed to complete necessary program requirements. Readmission raises questions as to why individuals were removed from the program in the first place and whether future applicants may be admitted under like conditions. Discrimination may be alleged regarding both the initial removal and also in the case that other students are not readmitted under like circumstances. Kaplan & Lee and Lee (2011) recommend that institutions, if they wish to avoid breach of contract and discrimination accusations, have an explicit readmission policy even if that policy denies readmission. If students take a voluntary leave of absence, institutions must have a valid reason to refuse readmission.\n\nStudents are protected from deviation from information advertised in class syllabi. This may be a binding implied-n-fact contract. \"Goodman v. President and Trustees of Bowdoin College\" (2001) ruled that institutional documents are still contractual regardless if they have a disclaimer.\nStudents are entitled to receive instruction on advertised course content. Institutions have the right to require coverage of designated course material by teachers and faculty and students are generally protected if they adhere to syllabus guidelines.\nStudents may expect teaching in conformity with the course level advertised. \"Andre v. Pace University\" (1994) awarded damages on the grounds of negligent misrepresentation and breach of contract.\nTeachers must give reasonable attention to all stated course subjects.\nStudents may have all advertised content covered in sufficient depth.\n\"Scallet v. Rosenblum\" (1996) found that \"tight control over the curriculum was necessary to ensure uniformity across class sections\".\nStudents may be graded fairly and in accordance with criteria set forth by the course syllabuses and may be protected from the addition of new grading criteria. Institutions have the responsibility of preserving quality in grade representations and comparability between classes and prevent grade inflation. Teachers have the right, under the first amendment, to communicate their opinions regarding student grades, but institutions are required to meet students implied contract rights to fair grading practices. Departments may change grades issued by teachers which are not in line with grading policies or are unfair or unreasonable.\nStudents have the right to learn. Teachers do not have free rein in the classroom. They must act within departmental requirements which ensure students' right to learn and must be considered effective. \"Sweezy v. New Hampshire\" (1957) found that teachers have the right to lecture. They do not have academic freedom under the law. Any academic freedom rules are put in place by the school.\nStudents may expect protection from the misuse of time; teachers may not waste students' time or use the class as a captive audience for views or lessons not related to the course. \"Riggin v. Bd. of Trustees of Ball St. Univ.\" found that instructors may not \"wast[e] the time of the students who have come there and paid money for a different purpose.\"\nStudents can expect effective teaching even if it requires departmental involvement in teaching and curriculum development. Kozol (2005) observed that the curriculum development may not be beneficial for all students since some students come from disadvantaged backgrounds where not every student has equitable opportunities to succeed in school. If there is departmental involvement in the students' learning then the departments need to acknowledge that students are different when they belong to a minority group. Ogbu (2004) argued that for an effective teaching to take place, departments need to understand students at a group level as well as at an individual level because even students within the same minority groups are different. Given that students have the right to effective teaching, department involvement needs to understand cultural diversity and cultural differences before a curriculum development is considered. \nTeachers have the right to regulated expression but may not use their first amendment privileges punitively or discriminatorily or in a way which prevents students from learning by ridiculing, proselytizing, harassment or use of unfair grading practices.\nThe 1990 Americans With Disabilities Act and Section 504 of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act prohibit disability based discrimination in the classroom. Act This includes ability discrimination in learning and deemed otherwise qualified are entitled to equal treatment and reasonable accommodations in both educational and employment related activities. The Supreme Court defined 'Otherwise Qualified' as an individual who can perform the required tasks in spite of rather than except for their disability.\nDisabled students are entitled to equal access to classrooms facilities required to achieve a degree.\nStudents Equality entails that individuals not be treated differently by individuals or systematically by an institution. Thus, testing policies which systematically discriminate, are unlawful according to the constitution. \"United States v. Fordice\" (1992) prohibited the use of ACT scores in Mississippi admissions, for instance, because the gap between ACT scores of white and black student was greater than the GPA gap which was not considered at all.\n\nInstitutions have an obligation to provide equal opportunities in athletics, bands and clubs. This includes equal accommodation of interests and abilities for both sexes, provision of equipment and facility scheduling for such activities as games and practices, travel allowance and dorm room facilities. It includes also equal quality facilities including locker rooms, medical services, tutoring services, coaching and publicity. To ensure that sufficient opportunities are made available for women, institutions are responsible for complying with Title IX in one of three ways. They must provide athletic opportunities proportionate to enrollment, prove that they are continually expanding opportunities for the underrepresented sex or accommodate the interests and abilities of the underrepresented sex.\nThe 2008 Higher Education Opportunity Act also requires the disclosure of athletics information including male and female undergraduate enrollment, number of teams and team statistics including the number of players, team operating expenses, recruitment, coach salaries, aid to teams and athletes and team revenue (HEOA, 2008). This information is required to ensure equality standards are met.\n\n\"Good v. Associated Students Univ. of Washington\" (1975) found students have the right to have visitors and solicitors in their residence hall rooms.\nStudents are entitled to housing of equal quality and cost and to equal housing policies.\nUntil the nineteen nineties gender segregation was permissible so long as institutional rationale for doing so was narrowly defined and justifiable. This precedent was officially reversed, however, after the Supreme Court in \"United States v. Commonwealth of Virginia\" (1992) found that a woman mistakenly admitted to a men's military college was entitled to remain enrolled.\nStudents with disabilities are also entitled to equal quality dormitories with living accommodations (Section 504 Rehabilitation Act, 1973; Kaplan & Lee, 2011. All accommodations are currently free to the student even if the student has the financial means to pay for them.\nStudents are entitled to equal treatment in housing regardless of age unless there is a narrowly defined goal which requires unequal treatment and policy is neutrally applied. \"Prostrollo v. University of South Dakota\" (1974), for instance, found that the institution may require all single freshmen and sophomores to live on campus. They did not discriminate between age groups.\n\"Piazzola v. Watkins\" (1971) established that students are not required to waive search and seizure rights as a condition of dormitory residence. Random door sweeps are impermissible.\nInstitutions may enter rooms in times of emergency, if they have proof of illegal activity or a threat to the educational environment. Both these terms must be clearly stipulated in advance. Otherwise institutions must ask for permission to enter. When dorms rooms are legally searched for narrowly defined reasons or officials are legally permitted to enter student rooms, students are not protected from property damage incurred in the search process or action taken when evidence is in plain sight.\nEvidence found in student dorm rooms by institutional employees cannot be used in a court of law and institutions cannot allow police to conduct a search and seizure with out warrant. Students may not be punished for refusing a warrantless search from institutional authorities or police officers. When students freely allow institutional officials to enter institutions can hold students accountable for evidence in plain sight.\n\n\"Griswald v. Connecticut\" (1965) found that the third, fourth, and fifteen amendments together constitute an inalienable right to privacy. Students are extended the same privacy rights extended to the community at large.\nThe 1971 Family Rights and Privacy Act and the 2008 Higher Education Opportunity Act protect student information. Students have the right to access their records, dispute record keeping and limited control over the release of documents to third parties.\nFRPA and the HOEA require students sign a release before their student records will be provided to third parties (e.g.: to parents and employers tec.). This legislation does allow schools, however, to release information without student approval for the purpose of institutional audit, evaluation, or study, student aid consideration, institutional accreditation, compliance with legal subpoenas or juvenile justice system officers or in order to comply with laws requiring identification of sex offenders on campus. Institutions may also disclose information to student guardians if the student is declared a dependant for tax purposes (FERPA).\nUnder FERPA, schools may publish directory information, including the students name, address, phone number, date of birth, place of birth, awards, attendance dates or student ID number, unless students ask the school not to disclose it. The institution must inform students they are entitled to these rights.\nIndividuals may use pseudonyms online and are not required to identify themselves (Kaplan & Lee, 2011).\nDrug testing Random National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) urine testing is legal to protect athlete health, fair competition and opportunities to educate about drug abuse in sports. Officials are allowed to watch athletes urinate. This overturned an earlier ruling which prohibited urination watching.\n\nThe 2008 Higher Education Opportunity Act requires that institutions disclose institutional statistics on the Department of Education (DOE) website to allow students to make more informed educational decisions. Information required on the DOE website includes: tuition, fees, net price of attendance, tuition plans, and statistics including sex, ability, ethnic and transfer student ratios as well as ACT/SAT scores, degrees offered, enrolled, and awarded. Institutions are also required to disclose transfer credit policies and articulation agreements.\nThe 2008 HOEA also requires institutions of higher education provide financial aid information disclosures, which essentially advertise the financial aid program, pre eligibility disclosures pertaining to the individual student, information differentiating federally insured or subsidized and private loans, preferred lender agreements, institutional rational for the establishment of preferred lender agreements and notice that schools are required to process any loan chosen by students.\nAccording to the 2008 HOEA, financial aid information disclosures must include the average financial aid awarded per person, cost of tuition, fees, room, board, books, supplies and transport.\nAccording to the 2008 HOEA, financial aid information disclosures must include the amount of aid not requiring repayment, eligible loans, loan terms, net required repayment.\nPre-eligibility disclosures must include notice of repayment, lender details, the principle amount, fees, interest rate, interest details, limits of borrowing, cumulative balance, estimated payment, frequency, repayment start date, minimum and maximum payments and details regarding deferment, forgiveness, consolidation and penalties.\nInstitutions are also required to utilize standard financial terminology and standard dissemination of financial aid information, forms, procedures, data security and searchable financial aid databases to ensure that students can easily understand their contractual rights and obligations. Forms must be clear, succinct, easily readable and disability accessible.\nThe HOEA (2008) requires third party student loan lenders to disclose information concerning alternative federal loans, fixed and variable rates, limit adjustments, co-borrower requirements, maximum loans, rate, principle amount, interest accrual, total estimated repayment requirement, maximum monthly payment and deferral options.\nThe HOEA (2008) requires institutions of higher education to engage in financial aid eligibility awareness campaigning to make students aware of student aid and the realities of accepting it.\n\"Van Stry v. State\" (1984) found institutions may not use student fees to support organizations outside the university. Teachers, likewise, have the right to refuse to pay union fees when they are allocated to objectionable political purposes. This implies that students have a right to know what activities they are being allocated towards.\nThe 2008 Higher Education Opportunity Act requires the disclosure of athletics information including male and female undergraduate enrollment, number of teams and team statistics including the number of players, team operating expenses, recruitment, coach salaries, aid to teams and athletes and team revenue (HEOA, 2008). This information is required to ensure equality standards are met. This ensures that institutions are abiding by Title IX of the 1972 Higher Education Act Amendments which limits sexual discrimination and requires institutions to offer equal sport, club and opportunities.\n\"Rosenberger v. Rector and Visitors of the University of Virginia\" (1995) found student fees must be allocated in a viewpoint neutral way. They cannot be based on religious, political or personal views (Henderickson; \"Good v. Associated Students University of Washington\") and they cannot be levied as a punishment. This suggests that students have a right to policy justification so that they know they are viewpoint neutral.\nStudents may expect protection from the misuse of time; teachers may not waste students' time or use the class as a captive audience for views or lessons not related to the course. \"Riggin v. Bd. of Trustees of Ball St. Univ.\" found that instructors may not \"wast[e] the time of the students who have come there and paid money for a different purpose.\" This assumes that students are entitled to know course objectives and content.\nStudents may be graded fairly and in accordance with criteria set forth by the course syllabuses and may be protected from the addition of new grading criteria. Institutions have the responsibility of preserving quality in grade representations and comparability between classes and prevent grade inflation. This assumes that students have the right to a syllabus to ensure fair grading.\n\nThe 1990 Americans With Disabilities Act and Section 504 of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act protect students against discrimination based on ability. This includes ability discrimination in discipline and dismissal. Individuals shall be designated with a disability by a medical professional, legally recognized with a disability.\n\"Matthews v. Elderidge\" (1976) found when there is the possibility that one’s interests will be deprived through procedural error, the value of additional safe guards and governmental interests, including monetary expenses, should be weighed. \"Foster v. Board of Trustees of Butler County Community College\" (1991) found that students are not entitled to due process rights when appealing rejected admissions applications. They are not yet students.\nDue process is required when actions have the potential to resulting a property or monetary loss or loss of income or future income etc. This includes degree revocation or dismissal. Students have a property interest in remaining at the institution and have protection form undue removal.\nStudents also have a liberty right to protect themselves from defamation of character or a threat to their reputation. Federal district courts have, therefore, found that due process is required in cases involving charges of plagiarism, cheating and falsification of research data.\nIn disciplinary measures students are entitled to the provision of a definite charge.\nStudents are entitled to a prompt notice of charges, e.g., ten days before the hearing.\nIn cases involving expulsion or dismissal students are entitled to right to \"expert\" judgment with a judge who is empowered to expel.\nStudents may inspect documents considered by institutional officials in disciplinary hearings.\nStudents may stand as a witness and tell their story during disciplinary hearings.\nStudents may record disciplinary hearings to ensure they are conducted in a legal fashion.\nStudents can expect rulings in disciplinary hearings to be based solely on evidence presented at the hearing. Students are also entitled to a hearing before a person or committee not involved in the dispute.\nStudents may expect to receive a written account of findings from disciplinary hearings showing how decisions are in line with evidence.\n\"Board of Curators of the University of Missouri et al. v. Horowitz\" (1978) found that fairness means that decisions, a) may not be arbitrary or capricious, b) must provide equal treatment with regard to sex, religion or personal appearance etc. and c) must be determined in a careful and deliberate manner.\nHearings must be conducted before suspension or discipline unless there is a proven threat to danger, damage of property or academic disruption.\n\"Texas Lightsey v. King\" (1983) determined that due process requires that the outcomes of investigation be taken seriously. A student cannot, for instance, be dismissed for cheating after a hearing has found him not guilty.\nThe American Bar Association (ABA) found that the need for a fair and just hearing also precludes the use of zero tolerance policies which ignore the circumstances surrounding an action. An individual who commits a crime because they believe they are in danger may not be held accountable in the same way as an individual who conducts the same crime for self-interest.\nStudents accused of criminal acts including drug possession, plagiarism, cheating and falsification of research data or fraud, may have greater due process rights.\nStudents accused of criminal acts may cross-examine witnesses, counsel.\nStudents accused of criminal acts may have an open trial to ensure that it is conducted fairly, counsel.\nIn non-criminal hearings in the educational setting, schools may use a lesser standard evidence but where criminal matters are concerned they must have clear and convincing evidence.\nmay be present.\nStudents accused of criminal acts should have access to a higher appeals process.\nThe Student & Administration Equality Act is proposed legislation in the North Carolina General Assembly (House Bill 843) would allow any student or student organization that is charged with a violation of conduct at a North Carolina state university the right to be represented by an attorney at any stage of the disciplinary process regarding the charge of misconduct.\n\nStudents are protected from unwarranted search and seizure. The fourth and fourteenth amendments protect from search and seizure without a warrant. They enshrine the individuals right to be “secure in their persons, houses, papers and effects.” Warrants must include person, place and specific items eligible for search and or seizure. Search and seizure rights do not apply to automobiles.\nIndividuals are protected from arrest by undeputized campus police and illegal search and seizure if arrest is made.\nStudents are protected from entrapment by campus police as individuals are protected outside the educational environment.\n\"Piazzola v. Watkins\" (1971) established that students are not required to waive search and seizure rights as a condition of dormitory residence. Random dorm sweeps are impermissible.\nInstitutions may enter rooms in times of emergency, if they have proof of illegal activity or a threat to the educational environment. Both these terms must be clearly stipulated in advance. Otherwise institutions must ask for permission to enter. When dorms rooms are legally searched for narrowly defined reasons or officials are legally permitted to enter student rooms, students are not protected from property damage incurred in the search process or action taken when evidence is in plain sight.\nEvidence found in student dorm rooms by institutional employees cannot be used in a court of law and institutions cannot allow police to conduct a search and seizure with out warrant. Students may not be punished for refusing a warrantless search from institutional authorities or police officers. When students freely allow institutional officials to enter institutions can hold students accountable for evidence in plain sight.\n\nA number of state courts have also found that institutions have a responsibility to prevent or make efforts to limit injury on campus from dangerous property and criminal conditions so long as injury is both foreseeable and preventable.\n\"Knoll v. Board of Regents of the University of Nebraska\" (1999) found that institutions are responsible for ensuring the safety of facilities which are either under institutional jurisdiction or oversight. Institutions are, thus, responsible for institutionally owned dormitories and fraternities whether on campus or off campus and also for fraternities which may not be owned by the institution but are regulated by the institution. By taking on a regulatory role the institution also takes on this liability. Another state court found, that when students are not lawfully permitted to be on institutional property or in institutional buildings after hours, for instance, the institution is not responsible. Where institutions willfully take responsibility for something like a fraternity or require students to abide by their rules they also take on the liability.\nStudents should be safe from for seeable crime especially in light of past reports of crime, if loitering or dangerous conditions have been made etc. Institutions are required to take safety precautions including the monitoring of unauthorized personnel in dormitories, taking action against unauthorized personnel when they pose a threat to safety and ensuring adequate security measures are in place.\nStudents deserve protection from other students over whom the institution has oversight including voluntarily assumed jurisdiction e.g.: clubs, sororities, fraternities, teams. This, for instance, includes protection from foreseeable or preventable fraternity hazing even if fraternities are not located on institutional property. The institution also has a responsibility to inform itself of safety risks existent in institutionally regulated programs (White, 2007). State courts have found that institutions are not responsible, however, for screening ex-convicts before admission, 1987).\n\nStudents have the right to constitutional freedoms and protections in higher education. Prior to the 1960s institutions of higher education did not have to respect students constitutional rights but could act as a parent in the interest of the student (Nancy Thomas, 1991). In 1960 \"Shelton v. Turner\" found \"the vigilant protection of constitutional freedoms is nowhere more vital than in the community of American schools\" and in 1961 \"Dixon v. Alabam\" found that students were not required to give up, as a condition of admission, their constitutional rights and protections.\n\nStudents retain their first amendment rights in institutions of higher education. \"Papish v. Board of Curators of the Univ. of Missouri\" (1973) and \"Joyner v. Whiting\" (1973) found students may engage in speech that do not interfere with the rights of others or of the operation of the school. Because schools are places of education they may regulate speech by time, manner and place as long as they provide free speech zones for students as long as they are not used to limit expression.\nThe first amendment protects religious, indecent speech and profane hand gestures including the middle finger. \"Texas v. Johnson\" (1989) found that “[i]f there is a bedrock principle underlying the first amendment, it is that the government may not prohibit the expression of an idea simply because society finds the idea itself offensive or disagreeable. The first amendment does not recognize exceptions for bigotry, racism, and religious intolerance or ideas or matters some may deem trivial, vulgar or profane.”\nClothing, armbands, newspaper editorials and demonstrations have all been found legal forms of free speech.\nThe first amendment covers internet communications. On forums designated by the institution as public forums or commonly used as public forums, students may express themselves without content regulation or removal. \"Online Policy Group v. Diebold, Inc.\", 2004 Regulation may take place to prevent illegal activities.\n\nStudents are protected from discrimination based on sex in any program or activity receiving federal funding except military, fraternity, sorority organizations.\nSexual harassment is considered a form of sex discrimination under Title IV of the 1964 Civil Rights Act and applies to all federal programs and activities. Sexual harassment has been prohibited in educational settings and applies also to both opposite and same sex harassment by students.\nInstitutions have an obligation to provide equal opportunities in athletics, bands and clubs. This includes equal accommodation of interests and abilities for both sexes, provision of equipment and facility scheduling for such activities as games and practices, travel allowance and dorm room facilities. It includes also equal quality facilities including locker rooms, medical services, tutoring services, coaching and publicity. To ensure that sufficient opportunities are made available for women, institutions are responsible for complying with Title IX in one of three ways. They must provide athletic opportunities proportionate to enrollment, prove that they are continually expanding opportunities for the underrepresented sex or accommodate the interests and abilities of the underrepresented sex.\nThe 2008 Higher Education Opportunity Act also requires the disclosure of athletics information including male and female undergraduate enrollment, number of teams and team statistics including the number of players, team operating expenses, recruitment, coach salaries, aid to teams and athletes and team revenue. This information is required to ensure equality standards are met.\nThe 1990 Americans With Disabilities Act and Section 504 of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act prohibits ability discrimination in higher education. This includes ability discrimination in facility use. Individuals designated with a disability by a medical professional, legally recognized with a disability and deemed otherwise qualified are entitled to equal treatment and reasonable accommodations in both educational and employment related activities. The Supreme Court defined Otherwise qualified as an individual who can perform the required tasks in spite of rather than except for their disability.\nThe 1972 Equal Educational Opportunity Act protects students equal rights to educational opportunity regardless of race and the 1965 Lyndon B. Johnson Executive Order 11246 and the 1964 Civil Rights Act require equal access to employment opportunities regardless of race.\nStudents are protected from racial segregation which compromises access to quality education.\nAll federal employers or federal contractors are required to take affirmative action to help counteract the effects of historical discrimination. They must create goals, timetables, action plans, budgets and reporting systems to ensure that marginalized populations are given equal employment opportunities. Regulations must also be posted in conspicuous places\neasily available to all staff and potential employees.\nDiversity is defined in much broader terms than race. \"Grutter v. Bollinger\" (2003) found a “broad range of qualities and experiences that may be considered valuable contributions” and “a wide variety of characteristics besides race and ethnicity.” Members of the majority are also protected from reverse discrimination. Race neutral affirmative action policies must make exceptions on an individual basis and may not discriminate based on race or color.\nIndividuals have the right to equal treatment regardless of national origin in institutions of higher education (HEA, 1965) so long as they are citizens or resident aliens of the United States. The 1986 Immigration and Reform Control Act also prohibits discrimination based on citizenship. Institutions have the right to discriminate based on national origin so long as objectives are both narrowly defined and neutrally applied. It is, thus, permissible to require non-resident aliens who are legally present in the United States to have health insurance for instance.\nAge discrimination in federally funded programs is prohibited by the 1975 Age Discrimination Act. This act builds on the 1967 Age Discrimination in Employment Act. It provides protection from unequal treatment between people of different ages from any explicit or implied distinctions which effect the benefits of participation.\n\"Gay Activists Alliance v. Board of Regents of University of Oklahoma\" (1981) found student groups are entitled to equal and unbiased recognition. Recognition includes the unbiased allocation of facility and equipment resources except when there is proof that a student group does not maintain reasonable housekeeping or poses a threat of danger, disruption or criminal action.\n\n\"Healey v. James\" (1972) found students have the right to self-determination. “Students—who, by reason of the 26th Amendment, become eligible to vote when 18 years of age—are adults who are members of the college or university community. Their interests and concerns are often quite different from those of the faculty. They often have values, views, and ideologies that are at war with the ones which the college has traditionally espoused or indoctrinated. \"Bradshaw v. Rawlings\" (1979) found that \"adult students now demand and receive expanded rights of privacy in their college life\".\n\n\"Carr v. St. Johns University\" (1962) and \"Healey v. Larsson\" (1971, 1974) established that students and institutions of higher education formed a contractual relationship. Institutions of higher education are responsible to ensure that contracts, including those implied and verbal, are fair, in good faith and not unconscionable.\nStudents are protected from deviation from information advertised in the following documents: registration materials, manuals, course catalogues, bulletins, circulars, regulations, \"Ross v. Creighton University\" class syllabi, student codes, and handbooks. These documents may be binding implied-n-fact contracts. \"Goodman v. President and Trustees of Bowdoin College\" (2001) ruled that institutional documents are still contractual regardless if they have a disclaimer. This decision found that \"even though the college had reserved the right to change the student handbook unilaterally and without notice, this reservation of rights did not defeat the contractual nature of the student handbook.\"\n\"Ross v. Creighton University\" found that verbal contracts are binding. The North Carolina Court of Appeals in \"Long v. University of North Carolina at Wilmington\" (1995) found, however, that verbal agreements must be made in an official capacity in order to be binding. \"Dezick v. Umpqua Community College\" (1979) found a student was compensated because classes offered orally by the dean were not provided. \"Healy v. Larsson\" (1974) found that a student who completed degree requirements prescribed by an academic advisor was entitled to a degree on the basis that this was an implied contract. An advisor should, thus, be considered an official source of information.\n\nJohn F. Kennedy's 1962 Consumer Bill of Rights, which is not a legal document, asserts that consumers have the right to consumer safety, information preventing fraud, deceit and informed choice, to choose from multiple alternative options and the right to complaint, to be heard and addressed. A number of these principles are enshrined in the law of higher education.\n\"Johnson v. Schmitz\" (2000) found in a federal district court that a PhD committee established for the sole purpose of advising the student had an obligation to advise the student in his best interest. This is a limited fiduciary right.\n\"Bradshaw v. Rawlings\" (1979) reiterated that where a special relationship is established, courts may impose a duty upon an institution or individual to ensure the care of others. Duty is defined here “as an obligation to which the law will give recognition in order to require one person to conform to a particular standard of conduct with respect to another person.” Institutions have a duty of care to ensure the safety of students while respecting their personal autonomy. \"Mullins v. Pine Manor\" found that \"[t]he fact that a college need not police the morals of its resident students... does not entitle it to abandon any effort to ensure their physical safety”.\n\"Dixon v. Alabama\" (1961) determined that when students' constitutional rights are not upheld, students are eligible to sue for damages in a court of law for monetary or material damages. Individuals may also file complaints regarding discrimination with the federal Office of Civil Rights (OCR).\nA number of state courts have also found that institutions have a responsibility to prevent or make efforts to limit injury on campus from dangerous property and criminal conditions so long as injury is both foreseeable and preventable.\n\"Knoll v. Board of Regents of the University of Nebraska\" (1999) found that institutions are responsible for ensuring the safety of facilities which are either under institutional jurisdiction or oversight. Institutions are, thus, responsible for institutionally owned dormitories and fraternities whether on campus or off campus and also for fraternities which may not be owned by the institution but are regulated by the institution. By taking on a regulatory role the institution also takes on this liability. Another state court found, that when students are not lawfully permitted to be on institutional property or in institutional buildings after hours, for instance, the institution is not responsible.\nStudents should be safe from for seeable crime especially in light of past reports of crime, loitering or dangerous conditions. Institutions are required to take safety precautions including the monitoring of unauthorized personnel in dormitories, taking action against unauthorized personnel when they pose a threat to safety and ensuring adequate security measures are in place.\nStudents deserve protection from other students over whom the institution has oversight including voluntarily assumed jurisdiction e.g.: clubs, sororities, fraternities, teams. This, for instance, includes protection from foreseeable or preventable fraternity hazing even if fraternities are not located on institutional property. The institution also has a responsibility to inform itself of safety risks existent in institutionally regulated programs. State courts have found that institutions are not responsible, however, for screening exconvicts before admission.\n\nStudents are protected from discrimination based on sex in any program or activity receiving federal funding except military, fraternity, sorority organizations. There are protections for both public and private employment. All employment opportunities must be merit based.\nAll sexes have the right to equal pay for equal work performed in the workplace in institutions of higher education. This would include student employment. This may suggest that transgender people are also entitled to equal pay in the workplace. \nWomen do not have to go on mandatory pregnancy leave before birth, and the right to doctor prescribed leave during pregnancy.\nSexual harassment is prohibited in both educational and workplace settings and applies also to both opposite and same sex harassment by employees.\nThe 1997 Department of Education and Office of Civil Rights Sexual Harassment Guidelines find also that institutions are liable for incidences wherein the institution was aware or \"should have been aware\" of sexual harassment and took no immediate action. The majority of federal court cases involving educational institutions prohibit the maintenance of conditions which allow harassment by other students to continue.\nAbility discrimination in federally funded and private programs and activities is prohibited under the 1990 Americans With Disabilities Act (ADA) and Section 504 of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act. Individuals designated with a disability by a medical professional, legally recognized with a disability and deemed otherwise qualified are entitled to equal treatment and reasonable accommodations. The Supreme Court defined Otherwise qualified as an individual who can perform the required tasks in spite of rather than except for their disability.\nThe 1990 Americans With Disabilities Act and Section 504 of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act. This includes ability discrimination in recruitment. Individuals designated with a disability by a medical professional, legally recognized with a disability.\nThe 1990 Americans With Disabilities Act and Section 504 of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act in discipline and dismissal.\nAge discrimination in federally funded programs is prohibited by the 1975 Age Discrimination Act. This act builds on the 1967 Age Discrimination in Employment Act. It provides protection from unequal treatment between people of different ages from any explicit or implied distinctions which effect the benefits of participation.\nExecutive Order 11246 expanded upon the 1953 Dwight D. Eisenhower Executive Order 10479, which established an anti-discrimination committee to oversee governmental contracting. The 1967 Lyndon B. Johnson Executive Order 11375 also requires all facets of federal employment or federally contracted employment be regulated based on\nmerit – this includes institutions of higher education.\nIndividuals have the right to equal treatment regardless of national origin in employment settings so long as they are citizens or resident aliens of the United States. The 1986 Immigration and Reform Control Act also prohibits discrimination based on citizenship.\n\nRomania is the country with the greatest student rights legislation currently in place. In 2011 the National Alliance of Student Organizations in Romania, which is also part of the European Student Union, worked with the Romanian National Government to bring into law the Romanian National Student Code of Rights and Responsibilities. This document provides Romanian students with roughly a hundred theoretical and procedural rights necessary to ensure theoretical rights are fulfilled. This document includes the following rights:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nStudents in both Europe and North America began calling for the expansion of civil rights and student rights during the Vietnam War era. They established legal rights by forming student unions and lobbying for institutional policies (thus, changing the cultural treatment of students), lobbying for legislative change on state and national levels and circulating petitions for the creation of national student rights bills. In America, for instance, students won the right to retain their civil rights in institutions of higher education. In Europe, this movement has been explosive. Students have banded together and formed unions in individual institutions, at the state and national levels and eventually at the continental level as the European Student Union. They have been instrumental in lobbying for rights in individual countries and in the EU in general. In 2011, for instance, Romania put forth an extensive national student bill of rights providing Romanian students with a hundred rights assembled in a clear and easy to access document. Europe has also set forth legislation stipulating the rights of EU students studying in other EU countries.\n\nEuropean students have used the tactics established during the global labour movement of the eighteen and nineteen hundreds to gain labour or work place standards. They have unionized, stated their demands both verbally and in writing (sometimes in the form of a proposed student bill of rights), publicized their message and gone on strike. During the labor movement, workers in the United States, for example, won the right to a 40-hour work week, to a minimum wage, to equal pay for equal work, to be paid on time, to contract rights, for safety standards, a complaint filing process etc. Students have, likewise, demanded that these regulations as well as civil, constitutional, contract and consumer rights, which regulate other industries, be applied to higher education.\n\nThe European student movement and the United States movement differ in a number of ways. These differences may be a factor in determining why European Students have been more successful in obtaining legally recognized student rights, from the right to access free education to the right to move and study freely from one EU country to the next, to the right to exercise their national legal rights in institutions of higher education.\n\nDifferences between European and United States student movements\nThe European Student Union ESU mandate requires the ESU to determine the demands of students and to convey them to legislators. The United States Student Association USSA also has a mandate to amplify the student voice in legal decision making but it does not stipulate how it will determine the student voice or ensure that it is representative of the students themselves. The ESU focuses on gathering input from students across the nation, creates a student bill of rights enabling students to critique it, proposes legislation to achieve these rights at both the state and continental level and then creates information resources so students know their rights. The USSA, determines its objectives through the USSA membership. USSA does not seem to conduct research across the nation or to state student objectives on their website so students can express a desire to add or delete from this list. If the USSA does conduct research they do not show this on their website, do not have a search function on the website and do not publish this information for students.\nThe ESU clearly states student demands through the nation and through the EU. They have compiled these demands into a student bill of rights, referred to as the 2008 Student Rights Charter. This document is not legally binding but it is a clear representation of all student demands. It helps students, institutions and governments understand what students are demanding and also helps student unions, in individual institutions, lobby for rights which help change the culture and treatment of students on a local level. The ESU has democratically created a proposed student bill of rights they want accepted in legislation at a national and continental level. These demands include: access to higher education, to student involvement in institutional governance, extracurricular support and curricular quality standards. Each right has been broken down into more detailed demands required to achieve these rights. While student associations in America are pushing for this, there has been no centralized effort through the national student association.\n\nUSSA Legislative initiatives have included student debt forgiveness, enabling undocumented immigrant students to attend college, allocating more governmental money toward institutions and students but again these objectives seem to be created by USSA members without national research on the student voice. There is no way to search their website to determine if they conduct research to gather input form students across the nation.\n\nThe European student movement and the United States movement also differ on a local institutional level. In Europe most institutional student organizations are referred to as student unions which suggests that they are engaged in lobbying for student rights. In America these are referred to as Student Governments or Student Associations and the focus is more on learning the democratic process. The problem is, however, that most student governments only have about 20-25% representation in the Academic Senate or institutional decision making body and far less experience in democratic processes than other institutional representatives. Student governments focus on teaching students how to be leaders and participate in democracy where as unions focus more on determining the student voice and achieving student rights through lobbying.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14273988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14273988", "title": "The Fund for American Studies", "text": "The Fund for American Studies\n\nThe Fund for American Studies is a non-profit organization based in Washington, D.C. Founded in 1967, the organization's stated goal is \"to change the world by developing leaders for a free society.\" TFAS is a conservative organization specializing in the free market. It has professional associations with conservative organisations like the State Policy Network and Charles Koch Institute and receives regular donations.\n\nIn 1967, Charles Edison took the first steps toward establishing the institution that is known today as The Fund for American Studies. Edison was a former governor of New Jersey, Secretary of the Navy and son of inventor Thomas Alva Edison.\n\nConcerned about an eroding confidence in the American system of government, Edison recruited Walter H. Judd, David R. Jones, Marvin Liebman, and William F. Buckley, Jr., to build a program that would educate college students about American government, politics, and economics.\n\nOn February 6, 1967, the group incorporated the Charles Edison Youth Fund. In 1969 Governor Edison died suddenly. To honor him and carry on his mission, the organization was renamed the Charles Edison Memorial Youth Fund. In 1985 the organization was renamed again to its present-day title, The Fund for American Studies. In the summer of 1970, the Edison Fund organized the inaugural Institute on Comparative Political and Economic Systems. Fifty-seven students attended the first Institute.\n\nThe Fund for American Studies sponsors 11 collegiate academic programs. Nine Institutes are held each summer in Washington, D.C., the Czech Republic, and Hong Kong. A tenth Institute is held during the fall and spring semesters in Washington, D.C., and an eleventh Institute is held in Santiago, Chile, in January. The institutes combine lectures, coursework, internships, evening lectures, and site briefings at key institutions of national government.\n\nIn addition to its summer and semester Institutes, TFAS sponsors other educational programs and conferences for professors and students throughout the year.\n\nSince it was established in 1970, over 4,000 students have attended ICPES. This Institute is intended primarily for students interested in careers in government, international affairs, public policy and academia. Students study the American political system and market economics and hold internships with places of political and economic interest such as Capitol Hill, federal agencies, think tanks, political groups, or international affairs organizations.\n\nThe Institute was named in 1994 in honor of entrepreneur John Engalitcheff.\n\nIPJ was established in 1985 to educate future journalists about ethical reporting and covering issues involving economic concepts.\n\nThe competitive program accepts a limited number of undergraduate journalism students to attend the Institute each summer. Program participants attend classes in economics and ethics and intern with major news organizations. The students also attend events at the National Press Club and regular briefings at principal news sites such as Congress, the U.S. State Department and the Federal Reserve Board.\n\nEstablished in 1990, IBGA explores the practical and theoretical questions surrounding the dynamic business-government relationship. Students examine the economic and political issues that shape how business and government interact as well as the importance of representing the interests of business before Congress. Accepted students earn course credit, intern with corporate governmental affairs office and trade associations and attend panel discussions with leaders in the profession.\n\nThe Institute was established in 1990 and was named in honor of Bryce Harlow until 2006 when it was renamed the Institute on Business and Government Affairs.\n\nIPVS was established in 1999 as an academic and internship program for college students involved in volunteer activities and interested in a professional career in the nonprofit sector. The program curriculum includes service projects, an internship matched to the student’s interest and course credit.\n\nApproximately 60 undergraduate leaders attend the Institute on Economics and International Affairs (IEIA) in order to gain real-world experience in the nation's capital interning on Capitol Hill, federal agencies, think tanks, foreign policy groups, embassies, or international affairs organizations. Academic study is focused on current foreign policy issues, political trends and the economics of the free market.\n\nCapital Semester is a 15-week academic and internship program offered each fall and spring in Washington, D.C. Participants of the program are enrolled as full-time students, placed with an internship in their area of interest and housed in furnished apartments on Capitol Hill. Students also attend briefings at the White House, State Department, and Capitol Hill as well as guest lectures from government officials and policy makers. In 2007 CS added a political journalism component for students interested in print or broadcast journalism, politics or public relations.\n\nLSI was established in the summer of 2007. The ten-week program combines legal clerkships, academic coursework for credit, networking opportunities, and career development activities. Participants of the program interact with leaders of the legal profession and visit points of judicial and executive interest in Washington, D.C.\n\nAIPES was established in 1993 to educate young leaders from central and Eastern Europe about free-market economics and constitutional democracy. Participants of the program attend classes, engage in a parliamentary simulation and listen to guest speakers.\n\nEstablished in 2002, AIPE promotes discussions of political economy among young leaders from across Asia. Participants attend courses on American studies and debate issues of economics, global trade, and economic developments with guest lecturers. The Institute is administered each summer in partnership with the University of Hong Kong.\n\nThe official news magazine of The Fund for American Studies. Published three times a year, the TFAStrack includes news on TFAS programs and its alumni as well as information about upcoming events.\n\nThis monthly electronic newsletter is designed specifically for alumni of TFAS programs. Each issue covers upcoming regional alumni events, TFAS news and updates from alumni.\n\nThis series of remarks on freedom is published by TFAS. The speakers featured in each issue of Teaching Freedom delivered their remarks at a TFAS Institute, conference or event.\n\nThe Fund for American Studies sponsors several awards programs throughout the year to honor those who help advance the values of freedom, democracy and a free-market economy around the world.\n\nThe alumni awards recognize the distinguished accomplishments of TFAS alumni and commend their dedication and service to TFAS. They include the Alumni Achievement Award, the Kevin Burket Alumni Service Award, the Young Alumni Award and the Chapter of the Year Award.\n\nThe Congressional Scholarship Award is given annually to a U.S. senator at a dinner that raises money for students to attend the Institute on Business and Government Affairs.\n\nTFAS awards the David R. Jones Leadership in Philanthropy Award annually to recognize individuals who promote American traditions of philanthropy, free enterprise and individual responsibility. In addition, the Lifetime Service Award is given annually to honor recipients who have made significant contributions to the advancement of the ideas of freedom and service.\n\nEach year, the Institute on Political Journalism presents two awards to professional journalists, the Clark Mollenhoff Award for Excellence in Investigative Reporting and the Award for Excellence in Economic Reporting. The Thomas L. Phillips Collegiate Journalism Award recognizes excellence in work published in collegiate publications.\n\nThe Walter Judd Freedom Award is presented annually by the Center for International Relations and TFAS to recognize individuals who have advanced the cause of freedom in the United States and abroad.\n\n"}
{"id": "2850877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2850877", "title": "Trial practice", "text": "Trial practice\n\nTrial practice is an upper level course offered in most American law schools designed to teach future litigators the fine points of presenting a case to a judge and jury. Unlike most law school courses, a trial practice class has very little discussion of substantive law, and is focused on the practical application of public speaking, narrative, and using body language to communicate a particular set of events to the triers of fact. Trial practice also contains elements of strategy, teaching students how to decide the order in which witnesses should testify, when exhibits should be introduced, and how to trap opposing witnesses into giving testimony that damages their side.\n\nEvidence is the area of substantive law most reinforced by a trial practice course, with students learning how to apply evidence law in a real-life setting, including learning when they can object to questions asked of witnesses, what objections to raise, and how to effectively present objections.\n\nTrial practice courses may have a classroom component. Also, trial practice courses will usually have an ongoing \"lab\" component where an attorney will instruct a small group of students on trial skills and assist them in honing their craft. Often, students practice against one another in mock trials throughout the course; for example, students may be divided into groups of 4, with each group containing two teams who practice against one another in mock trials. \n\nRather than a final exam, the course may culminate in a mock trial with volunteer \"witnesses\".\n"}
{"id": "8968515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8968515", "title": "Virginia Open Education Foundation", "text": "Virginia Open Education Foundation\n\nVirginia Open Education Foundation (VOEF) is a not-for-profit 501(c)(3) corporation dedicated to bringing curriculum and educational content resources to the K-12 students of the Commonwealth of Virginia through open education. It was started and is currently directed by Middlesex County Public Schools Technology Director Mark Burnet.\n\n\nVOEF aims to establish a Creative Commons database of educational resources produced by private and public funding and aligned to the Virginia Standards of Learning. These resources would then be used by individual school systems through print on demand technology for paper textbooks and would be accessible online through content management systems.\n\nBurnet advocates that switching to open source content would greatly reduce textbook prices for Virginia and would allow up-to-date content to be generated and distributed quickly. Because the content would be in the creative commons, private schools would have full rights to use the content, and would be able to modify it for their purposes before use. Also, because content would be generated within the state, it could be based on Virginia's own learning standards instead of those from states like Texas and California, which are currently used to produce many of Virginia's textbooks. It is the view of the organization that educational resources and implementation would be greatly improved, giving children better access to content, including, eventually, online access. While the initiative is primarily focused on Virginia, all content would be free for use by anyone around the world.\n\nIn January 2007 VOEF worked with State Delegate Christopher Peace to propose to the House of the General Assembly Joint Resolution 702, which would form a joint subcommittee to consider open education implementation in the Commonwealth. This bill was eventually scrapped in favor of an Open Education Resources advisory committee within the Joint Commission on Technology and Science. This committee first met in Richmond on June 20, 2007. Members were interested in lowering costs, providing materials to a broader group of learners, and speeding the process of content distribution via electronic delivery and print on demand.\n\nFor the 2008 session, a full subcommittee was formed. An early priority was to unlock some of the production and procurement processes for school textbooks in both K-12 and higher education. To this end, VOEF submitted a proposal to Peace that culminated in work by the Virginia Department of Education to create Virginia House Bill 137, which redefined textbooks to include all electronic versions so as to remove restrictions to paper-bound volumes. The bill passed unanimously in every vote, and was signed by Governor Tim Kaine on March 7, 2008.\n\nIn conjunction with VOEF, Chris Peace introduced two more bills in January 2009. The first, HB1940, would authorize the establishment of open education resource centers. Such centers would be able to be either privately or publicly funded, but the legislation would expire if no funding is provided within two years. The second, HB1941, is a proposal that would encourage educational materials produced by the state to be released under a Creative Commons license.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22270848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22270848", "title": "Washington Federation of Independent Schools", "text": "Washington Federation of Independent Schools\n\nThe Washington Federation of Independent Schools (WFIS) is an umbrella organization of private and independent schools in the U.S. state of Washington, informally representing Washington in the Office of Private Education.\n\nAs laid out by the executives of the federation, the goals of WFIS are:\n\n"}
{"id": "55894323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55894323", "title": "Wendy Greengross", "text": "Wendy Greengross\n\nWendy Elsa Greengross (1925–2012) was a British general practitioner and broadcaster. \"The Independent\" called her \"a pioneering counsellor and one of the leading figures in fighting for equal rights for the disabled and the elderly\".\n\nWendy Elsa Greengross was born on 29 April 1925, at 10 St Mary's Road, Golders Green, London, the daughter of Morris Philip Greengross, born Moisze Fiszel Gringross (1892–1970), a manufacturing jeweller, and his wife, Miriam Greengross, née Abrahamson (1899/1900–1968).\n\nHer father was mayor of Holborn from 1960 to 1961, and her brother Sir Alan Greengross (born 1929) was a leading Conservative member of the Greater London Council.\n\nGreengross was educated at South Hampstead High School from 1936 until she was evacuated to Berkhamsted, Hertfordshire, followed by University College Hospital, where she qualified as a doctor in 1949, and in 1952 won a Fulbright Scholarship to the Chicago Lying-in Hospital.\n\nTogether with her husband, Greengross ran a large general practice in Tottenham, London. Opened in 1955, it was one of the UK's first group practices. She particularly promoted family planning, and they were the country's first GP practice to have a dedicated marriage guidance. Greengross worked as a GP for 35 years.\n\nGreengross received counsellor training from the Marriage Guidance Council (now Relate), and would go on to become its Chief Medical Adviser. In the late 1960s, Greengross started teaching pastoral care and counselling at Leo Baeck College.\n\nGreengross went into broadcasting in the early 1970s, joining the BBC Radio 4 counselling programme \"If You Think You've Got Problems\", which ran for nearly eight years. She had her own television show on BBC1 in 1973, \"Let's Talk it Over\".\n\nFrom 1972 to 1976, Greengross was an agony aunt for \"The Sun\", but \"felt the letters passed to her were more about titillation than education\".\n\nGreengross wrote \"Jewish and Homosexual\", published in 1980, by the Reform Synagogues of Great Britain, which \"led the way towards equality within the British Reform and Liberal movements\". Greengross published several sex education books, particularly focused on more marginalised groups, such as \"Sex and the Handicapped Child\" in 1980.\n\nGreengross was a founding member and chair of the organization Sexual Problems of Disabled People (SPOD), and a founder of the Residential Care Consortium.\n\n\nIn 1951, she married a surgeon, Alex Kates, and they had five children.\n\nWendy is survived by her daughters, Hilary and Polly, sons Nick and Richard, and three grandchildren. Her son Trevor died in 1997.\n\nGreengross lived for many years in Hampstead Garden Suburb, before a retirement flat in Regent's Park Road, where she died on 10 October 2012, of pneumonia. She was buried at Cheshunt's Jewish Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "53127495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53127495", "title": "Young Actors Theatre Islington", "text": "Young Actors Theatre Islington\n\nYoung Actors Theatre Islington (YATI) is a drama school and community theatre based in the Islington district of London, England. The organisation also functions as a charity agency for children and young adults who wish to pursue a career in acting.\n\nThe theatre is housed inside a converted Edwardian chapel on Barnsbury Road, and has been a home for the dramatic arts since 1972.\n\nFormerly the site of the Anna Scher Theatre, the building was reorganised and rechristened the \"Young Actors Theatre\" in 2005 in order to better accommodate the goals of the charity.\n\nIn 2014, actor Andy Serkis became the president for the organisation, serving in the capacities of both sponsor and ambassador on behalf of the charity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "390977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=390977", "title": "Youth For Understanding", "text": "Youth For Understanding\n\nYouth For Understanding (YFU) is an international educational exchange organization. A network of over 50 independent national organizations worldwide, YFU representatives work together to advance learning across cultures. Within each country's culture, YFU organizations subscribe to and operate under a common set of principles and standards that aim to facilitate cooperation and harmony.\n\nEach year, YFU exchanges approximately 4,500 students worldwide.\n\nYFU conducts its exchange programs via direct contact between independent national organizations in over 50 countries. These autonomous organizations represent the international community network of YFU. Other YFU international activities are carried out by a volunteer International Advisory Council and a professional staff known as the International Secretariat.\nYFU organizations around the world subscribe to a set of basic operating and philosophic standards that embody YFU’s commitment to conducting high quality programs. The standards set the basic requirements that YFU programs must meet.\n\nThe umbrella body for national Youth For Understanding organisations across Europe is EEE-YFU.\n\nYouth for Understanding was founded by Rachel Andresen. In 1951 it was proposed to church leaders in Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA that teenagers from Germany be brought to the United States to live with a family and attend high school for a year. As a result, 75 German teenagers arrived in Michigan in July 1951 and were hosted by volunteer U.S. families.\nThe exchange program itself originated in late summer 1951 by the High Commission in Germany as the \"Urban/Rural Teen-Age Exchange Program\". Already in its first year it was supported by members of the Michigan Council of Churches (MCC) under the motto \"Youth for Understanding\". Within the next 10 years it evolved into two organizations YFU-USA and YFU-Germany. The first \"exchange\" from the USA to Germany was a summer program with 30 US high school students organized by MCC-alumni. During that year, Germany became a sovereign country, and the US government stopped funding the exchange program with Germany, which continued as a not-for-profit activity between the two YFU organizations. In 1961/62, a one-year exchange program from the US to Germany was added with 6 initial students from the US.\nThe first exchanges across the Pacific (with Japan) and to Mexico were established in 1958, and South America in 1959.\n\nYFU, Inc., the non-profit educational organization, was established in 1964, and the organization's offices were moved to Rosedale in Washington, D.C. in 1978.\n\nDuring most of the 1990s, YFU, Inc. served as the primary administrative organization for applications and interviews in the Congress-Bundestag Youth Exchange (CBYX) scholarship program, overseen by the now defunct United States Information Agency (USIA). With the dissolution of the USIA toward the end of 1999, the CBYX scholarship program began to be reorganized on a regional basis, and YFU ceased its central administrative control.\n\nOn March 8, 2002 YFU, Inc. ceased operations and filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy later that year. \nThe YFU organization in United States was reorganized as YFU USA Inc., which opened on March 9, 2002. The organization's offices were moved to Bethesda, Maryland later in 2002. Ulrich Zahlten, founder and former chair of YFU Germany, became the new chairman of the board of YFU USA. This reorganization also reversed the organization's misfortunes; the annual report for 2005 reports four consecutive years of budget surpluses.\n\nYFU USA has five district offices: Founders, Heartland, Horizon, Northeast and Southeast. YFU remains a volunteer-based organization as YFU USA has almost 1,400 active volunteers.\n\nThe guidelines for the work of the national YFU organizations will be decided by the International Advisory Council. The committee, which meets twice a year, consists of 15 representatives from national organizations. The United States, Germany and Japan as the largest members are constantly represented; the remaining sites are occupied in turn by other partners. The International Advisory Council is supported by the International Secretariat. \n\nYFU USA offers a range of educational opportunities for students, families, volunteers, and schools. High school study abroad programs are offered during the summer and include options for group or individual travel. The summer programs cost between $5,500-$9,000 and are four to eight weeks. Semester long and gap-year programs are also offered. All YFU programs center on the family living experience. \n\nThe \"YFU USA Study Abroad Program\" provides opportunities for United States high school students to live with a host family and study abroad for a year, semester, or summer. Each year, YFU USA awards over 250 full and partial scholarships. Many of these scholarships are to Japan and Germany, which are among the most popular destinations for American students. However, new sponsorships, from both the government and corporate sectors, have allowed more scholarships to be awarded for study in other countries.\n\nThe \"YFU USA International Student Program\" offers American families the opportunity to host an exchange student. In 2013, YFU USA welcomed more than 1,800 students from over 60 countries.\n\nThe \"YFU USA Community College Program\" is present at community colleges across the United States.\n\nEuropean Educational Exchanges – Youth for Understanding (EEE-YFU) is an international youth exchange non-profit organisation, founded in 1985. It is the umbrella body for national Youth For Understanding organisations across Europe and consists of 28 members.\n\nThe mission of EEE-YFU is to advance intercultural understanding, mutual respect, and social responsibility through educational exchanges for youth, families, and communities.\n\nYFU was founded shortly after the end of World War II, in 1951. It is one of the world's oldest education exchange organisations and currently has programmes in about 60 countries around the world. Founded to allow young Germans the opportunity to experience another culture outside of their own, YFU organised for them to go on exchange to the United States in order to see what life was like there and to develop an understanding of democracy. Since then YFU has grown and now sends young people between 15 and 18 years old on international high school exchanges to other countries, where the students will live with and become a part of a host family. National YFU organisations from around the world are all independent from one another. However, there does exist an International Secretariat in order to facilitate co-operation and communication amongst them on a global scale, and to provide them with support.\n\nEEE-YFU is a member organisation, and its members are national YFU organisations in Europe. Unlike the national YFU organisations, it is not involved with the actual logistics and organising of the exchanges. Instead, it is a member organisation which focuses on representing the interests of its members in several different ways. In supporting its members, EEE-YFU has the following aims: to promote intercultural understanding through youth exchange programmes in Europe; to enhance the public visibility for Youth For Understanding in Europe and with European institutions and organisations; to enrich the experience of European exchange students by facilitating educational and content related activities; to facilitate co-operation and networking between member organisations and to provide membership services; to facilitate intra-European activities such as seminars, meetings and conferences on various topics; and to assist in planning and conducting international training for staff and volunteers.\n\nThe organisation has its offices in Brussels, Belgium, where it works towards representing its members' interests at European level and to facilitate co-ordination between its national members.\n\nEEE-YFU consists of a Board, which has the ultimate responsibility for the overall strategic direction of the organisation, as well as the European Secretariat based in its office in Brussels. The Secretariat regularly has interns and volunteers (often from the European Voluntary Service programme) working in the office.\n\nEEE-YFU is an international non-profit organisation under Belgian law (AISBL).\n\nEEE-YFU works alongside a number of external organisations, and is regularly granted funding for projects and initiatives by European institutions and other bodies. Its partners include the Council of Europe Directorate of Youth & Sports, the European Commission, the European Youth Forum and the Platform for Intercultural Europe, as well as many others. It receives funding from the European Commission, the Council of Europe and the Belgian state, as well as other bodies. EEE-YFU also works closely with other NGOs involved in the youth field, particularly in relation to organising activities.\n\nEEE-YFU works in three main areas: Capacity building; advocacy and representation; and knowledge building and networking.\n\nThe organisation fulfills its objectives by organising and facilitating educational activities to provide on-going education in cross-cultural issues to its students, returnees and volunteers. These help to promote intercultural dialogue and youth participation for a wide range of young people across Europe. EEE-YFU organises activities such as study sessions, trainings and seminars on various cultural and youth-related issues both nationally and on a European level. In doing so it often works closely with its member organisations. An important feature of EEE-YFU's activities is to encourage those students who have participated in exchanges to continue to be involved with YFU by volunteering once they return home. This will help to continue the cycle of learning and will allow YFU to reach out to more young people.\n\nEEE-YFU has its own \"European Trainer Network\", composed of 13 young trainers from 10 different countries, which provides its member organisations with a pool of young people with relevant expertise and knowledge that they can use to organise and facilitate a range of events. This aims to help to increase the capacity for multiplication of competences and knowledge within the international YFU network, and for contributing to the development of training structures of national YFU organisations to provide high quality educational activities. EEE-YFU also has a \"Pool of Representatives\", composed of 33 young people from various member organisations. The members are an important tool for EEE-YFU's advocacy work, representing EEE-YFU on various seminars, working groups, meetings, conferences and other events.\n\nThe following YFU national organisations are members of EEE-YFU:\nAustria, Belarus, Belgium (Flanders & Wallonia), Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Georgia, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, Ukraine.\n\n"}
