{"id": "38160124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38160124", "title": "2009 in philosophy", "text": "2009 in philosophy\n\n2009 in philosophy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11842376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11842376", "title": "Adolfo de Castro", "text": "Adolfo de Castro\n\nAdolfo de Castro (died October 1898 in Cádiz, Spain) was a Spanish historian and member of the Real Academia de la Historia of Madrid. He lived in Cadiz and died there in 1898.\n\nCastro wrote the first short history of the Jews in Spain, based on careful studies. His history was so impartial and dispassionate that he found it necessary to assure his readers (p. 8): \"Escribo esta historia sin pasion, ni artificio, como de cosas que nada me tocan. Ni soi judio, ni vengo de judaizantes\" (I write this history dispassionately and without craft, as concerning things that do not touch me. I am not a Jew, nor am I of Jewish descent.) Castro's book was published under the title, \"Historia de los Judios en España, desde los Tiempos de su Establecimiento hasta Principios del Presente Siglo\", Cádiz, 1847. It was translated into English by Rev. Edward D.G.M. Kirwan, Cambridge, John Deighton, 1851.\n\nUnlike José Amador de los Ríos, who after him, treated the history of the Jews in Spain, Castro condemned the Inquisition: \"Pues los monarcas bien podran regir con las leyes de la fuerza los cuerpos de sus vasallos; pero no podrán sujetar los animos\" (For monarchs can indeed command by forcible laws the bodies of their subjects, but cannot subdue their souls).\n\n"}
{"id": "1374460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1374460", "title": "Anders Hald", "text": "Anders Hald\n\nAnders Hald (3 July 1913 – 11 November 2007) was a Danish statistician. He was a professor at the University of Copenhagen from 1960 to 1982. While a professor, he did research in industrial quality control and other areas, and also authored textbooks. After retirement, he made important contributions to the history of statistics.\n\nHald was a Fellow of the American Statistical Association, a Member of the Royal Danish Academy of Science and Letters, a Member of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics, an Honorary Fellow of the Royal Statistical Society, and a Corresponding Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1546032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1546032", "title": "Asena", "text": "Asena\n\nAsena is the name of a wolf associated with the Oghuz Turkic foundation myth.\n\nThe legend of Asena tells of a young boy who survived a battle; a female wolf finds the injured child and nurses him back to health. The she-wolf, impregnated by the boy, escapes her enemies by crossing the Western Sea to a cave near the Qocho mountains and a city of the Tocharians, giving birth to ten half-wolf, half-human boys. Of these, Ashina becomes their leader and establishes the Ashina clan, which ruled over the Göktürk and other Turkic nomadic empires.\n\nThese first Turks migrated to the Altai region, where they were known as expert blacksmiths, akin to the Scythians.\n\nWith the rise of Turkish ethnic nationalism in the 1930s, the veneration of figures of Turkic Mythology, such as , Asena and Ergenekon was resurgent. The symbol of Asena is embossed on the stage of the personal theater of the first President of Turkey, Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, at his residence in Ankara; the Atatürk referenced the motif in speech, such as that of 13 February 1931,\"Türk Ocağı\", in Malatya.'\n\n"}
{"id": "56847351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56847351", "title": "Bavarian Forest Club", "text": "Bavarian Forest Club\n\nThe Bavarian Forest Club (), or BWV, is a club that promotes culture, local history and folklore, nature and landscape conservation, and walking in the Bavarian Forest in Germany. It has its head office in Zwiesel and is registered in the register of clubs and societies in the district office at Deggendorf (VR 10158).\n\nThe founder of the club was Anton Niederleuthner, senior judge in Passau. The foundation of the club in 1883 goes back to his meeting with foresters in Bodenmais. The Bavarian Forest Club was founded in Deggendorf Town Hall on 25 November 1883. The Bodenmais townsman, Bartholomäus Stölzl, was appointed as its first chairman. On 6 June 1885, Niederleuthner founded the Passau Branch, the club's first local branch. On 22 August he was elected the first president and made Passau the base of the club. He managed the club for over 20 years and founded over 40 other local branches. The club emblem used today goes back to Niederleuthner.\n\nA club magazine, \"Der Bayerwald\", was also launched. Its editor in the 1930s was the Nazi, Eugen Hubrich.\n\nThe main goals of the club were the development of the Bavarian Forest as a hiking and holiday area, the creation of a dense network of hiking trails and the construction of refuge huts. Later they concentrated on the maintenance and waymarking of trails, the conservation of refuge huts and viewing towers as well as measures such as the protection of the \"Schachten\", the historical grazing areas of the highlands. Until the founding of the Bavarian Forest Nature Park in 1967 and the Bavarian Forest National Park in 1970, the Bavarian Forest Club was the only major institution that placed the culture and nature of the Bavarian Forest at the centre of its activities.\n\nIn 2016, the club comprised 60 branches and had about 20,000 members.. The individual branches own important buildings and refuge huts. For example, Kollnburg Castle and Neunußberg Castle are owned by the Viechtach branch, and the \"Lusenschutzhaus\" by the Grafenau branch. Important annual events include the \"Bayerwaldtag\" (Bavarian Forest Day) and the art exhibition, \"Zwieseler Buntspecht\", in Zwiesel. On the Oberbreitenau a youth education centre has been created in the Landshut House named after the Landshut branch.\n\nOn 26 October 2008, the club celebrated its 125th anniversary in the festival hall of the old town hall of Deggendorf. Minister of State, Josef Miller, gave the speech at the spot where the Bavarian Forest Club was founded on 25 November 1883.\n\nSince early 2016, the club has become a member of the German Hiking Association, to which it had already previously belonged until its departure on 31 December 2006. In the interim, the \"Interessensgemeinschaft Bayerischer Wald\", consisting of the Dreiburgenland and Ruderting-Neukirchen branches, was a member of the German Hiking Association from June 2008 to the end of 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "19158257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19158257", "title": "Bill Bunbury", "text": "Bill Bunbury\n\nBill Bunbury (born 7 October 1940, in Glastonbury, England) is a former radio broadcaster and producer for the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, and an accomplished historian and writer.\n\nBunbury was born in Glastonbury, England in 1940, to an Australian father and an English mother. He graduated with an honours degree from the University of Durham in 1963, then decided to visit his father's homeland, Australia. He worked as a farmhand on his cousin's farm in Broomehill for 2 months before moving to Perth, where he taught English at Guildford Grammar School. A visit to the school by an ABC television crew introduced Bunbury to ABC producer Roger Penny. Penny recommended Bill to apply for an ABC position and he joined the ABC'S Education in May 1969.\n\nBunbury's first couple of years at the ABC consisted of radio work. He moved to television shortly afterwards to present a children's program called \"Here in the West\". Later, while making a film series about significant communities, he came across the experience of Group Settlers in Denmark, Western Australia in the 1920s. Unable to get funds for a TV production he recorded a 30 minute radio documentary THEY SAID YOU'D OWN YOUR OWN FARM Its unexpected popularity prompted Bunbury to \nmove full time to radio, travelling around Western Australia recording series called LIVING HISTORY. \n\nIn 1985, historian and broadcaster Tim Bowden founded the ABC's social history unit, and invited Bill to join the unit. He had already produced a Background Briefing on the death of John Pat in the Pilbara and \nthen produced \"Hindsight', \"Verbatim\", \"Street Stories\" and \"Encounter\". He retired from the ABC in 2007. Bunbury said, \"I wanted to go while I was still doing good work. I think I've quit while I was, hopefully, still winning races. I think maybe some [journalists] retire too early. Perhaps some go on [working] too long. You try to pick the right time.\"\n\nBunbury's documentary series covered such topics as Cyclone Tracy, Australia's involvement in the Vietnam War, and the granting of equal wages to Aboriginal stockmen in 1966. His work had a strong focus on Indigenous Australian history. Bunbury won several awards for his radio programmes and series, including the NSW Premier's Media Prize in 1996 for his six part series UNFINISHED BUSINESS,- RECONCILIATION & THE REPUBLIC, the New York Radio Festival Gold medal for Best History Documentary, \"Timber for Gold\", Gold Mining and Timber ] in Kalgoorlie, and the UN Australia Peace Prize for \"The War Rages On\", Australians in Vietnam.\n\nHis interest in oral history and recording of people's memories has created a vast resource in the Western Australian state library, Battye Library, of recorded interviews with people from various documentaries and programmes. Journalist Andre Malan has described this as Bunbury's legacy, \"a priceless archive of the State's rich oral history that would otherwise have been lost forever\".\n\nBunbury has published extensively with the Fremantle Press, and is currently Adjunct Professor of History and Media at Murdoch University where he was also awarded an Honorary Doctorate in Literature in 2008 for services to broadcasting and history.\n\nIn 2017 Bill Bunbury was awarded an Order of Australia for his services to broadcasting and Aboriginal communities.\n\nBunbury and his wife,Jenny now live in Margaret River. They have two daughters, Alison and Kate and two grandsons, Sam and Jack. On January 26 2017, Australia Day, Bill Bunbury was awarded the Order Of Australia for services to the broadcast media and the Indigenous people of Australia.\n\nBunbury, Bill (2015) INVISIBLE COUNTRY Understanding the Landscape of SW Australia UWA Press December 2015 \n"}
{"id": "1030599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1030599", "title": "Black History Month", "text": "Black History Month\n\nBlack History Month, also known as African-American History Month in the U.S., is an annual observance in Canada, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and the United States. It began as a way for remembering important people and events in the history of the African diaspora. It is celebrated annually in the United States and Canada in February, as well as in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and Republic of Ireland in October.\n\nThe precursor to Black History Month was created in 1926 in the United States, when historian Carter G. Woodson and the Association for the Study of Negro Life and History announced the second week of February to be \"Negro History Week\". This week was chosen because it coincided with the birthday of Abraham Lincoln on February 12 and of Frederick Douglass on February 14, both of which dates black communities had celebrated together since the late 19th century.\n\nFrom the event's initial phase, primary emphasis was placed on encouraging the coordinated teaching of the history of American blacks in the nation's public schools. The first Negro History Week was met with a lukewarm response, gaining the cooperation of the Departments of Education of the states of North Carolina, Delaware, and West Virginia as well as the city school administrations of Baltimore and Washington, D.C.. Despite this far from universal acceptance, the event was regarded by Woodson as \"one of the most fortunate steps ever taken by the Association\", and plans for a repeat of the event on an annual basis continued apace.\n\nAt the time of Negro History Week's launch, Woodson contended that the teaching of black history was essential to ensure the physical and intellectual survival of the race within broader society:\n\n\"If a race has no history, it has no worthwhile tradition, it becomes a negligible factor in the thought of the world, and it stands in danger of being exterminated. The American Indian left no continuous record. He did not appreciate the value of tradition; and where is he today? The Hebrew keenly appreciated the value of tradition, as is attested by the Bible itself. In spite of worldwide persecution, therefore, he is a great factor in our civilization.\"\n\nBy 1929, \"The Journal of Negro History\" was able to note that with only two exceptions, officials with the State Departments of Educations of \"every state with considerable Negro population\" had made the event known to that state's teachers and distributed official literature associated with the event\". Churches also played a significant role in the distribution of literature in association with Negro History Week during this initial interval, with the mainstream and black press aiding in the publicity effort.\n\nNegro History Week was met with enthusiastic response; it prompted the creation of black history clubs, an increase in interest among teachers, and interest from progressive whites. Negro History Week grew in popularity throughout the following decades, with mayors across the United States endorsing it as a holiday.\n\nOn February 21, 2016, 106-year Washington D.C. resident and school volunteer Virginia McLaurin visited the White House as part of Black History Month. When asked by the president why she was there, McLaurin said, \"A black president. A black wife. And I’m here to celebrate black history. That’s what I'm here for.\"\n\n Black History Month was first proposed by black educators and the Black United Students at Kent State University in February 1969. The first celebration of Black History Month took place at Kent State one year later, from 2/1/1970 - 2/28/1970.\n\nSix years later, Black History Month was being celebrated all across the country in educational institutions, centers of Black culture and community centers, both great and small, when President Gerald Ford recognized Black History Month, during the celebration of the United States Bicentennial. He urged Americans to \"seize the opportunity to honor the too-often neglected accomplishments of black Americans in every area of endeavor throughout our history\".\n\nBlack History Month was first celebrated in the United Kingdom in 1987. It was organised through the leadership of Ghanaian analyst Akyaaba Addai-Sebo, who had served as a coordinator of special projects for the Greater London Council (GLC) and created a collaboration to get it underway. It was first celebrated in London.\n\nIn 1995, after a motion by politician Jean Augustine, representing the riding of Etobicoke—Lakeshore in Ontario, Canada's House of Commons officially recognized February as Black History Month and honored Black Canadians. In 2008, Senator Donald Oliver moved to have the Senate officially recognize Black History Month, which was unanimously approved.\n\nIn 2014 the Republic of Ireland became only the fourth country in the world to officially celebrate Black History Month. Ireland's Great Hunger Institute notes: “Black History Month Ireland was initiated in Cork in 2010. This location seems particularly appropriate as, in the nineteenth century, the city was a leading center of abolition, and the male and female anti-slavery societies welcomed a number of black abolitionists to lecture there, including Charles Lenox Remond and Frederick Douglass.\" \n\nBlack History Month often sparks an annual debate about the continued usefulness and fairness of a designated month dedicated to the history of one race. Criticisms include questions over whether it is appropriate to confine the celebration of Black history to one month, as opposed to integration of Black history into the mainstream education the rest of the year. Another criticism is that contrary to the original inspiration for Black History Month, which was a desire to redress the manner in which American schools failed to represent Black historical figures as anything other than slaves or colonial subjects, Black History Month reduces complex historical figures to overly simplified objects of hero worship. Other critics refer to the celebration as racist.\n\nBlack celebrities such as actor and director Morgan Freeman and actress Stacey Dash have criticized Black History Month, with Freeman saying, \"I don't want a Black history month. Black history is American history.\" Freeman has argued that there was no White History Month, because white people did not want their history relegated to just one month.\n\n\n\n\nInternational:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14285084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14285084", "title": "Carlos Clarens", "text": "Carlos Clarens\n\nCarlos Clarens (1930–1987) was a film historian and writer on the cinema particularly noted for his sensitive, pioneering \"Illustrated History of the Horror Film\" (1967, revised 1968). Having left Havana in his younger years, he made his mark in both Paris and New York, providing subtitles in the five languages with which he was fluent.\n\nUpon his death, tributes were held at New York's Little Theatre at the Public Theater, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences and Paris' Cinematheque.\n\n"}
{"id": "43221310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43221310", "title": "Carlos Pérez Soto", "text": "Carlos Pérez Soto\n\nCarlos Pérez Soto (born October 6, 1954 in Santiago de Chile) is a Chilean teacher of physics, lecturer at various universities and a social sciences researcher, author of works of a broad thematic spectrum: philosophy of science and epistemology, political philosophy and Marxism, history of dance, anti-psychiatry.\n\nIn 1972 he joined the Faculty of Education at the University of Chile for the career of Pedagogy in Physics. In 1979, he obtained the state degree of a (qualified) Teacher of Physics, which is his only formal academic degree. Although he began his studies in the heyday of the student movement's political participation during the government of Salvador Allende, he spent most of his life as a student during the years of the Chilean military dictatorship.\n\nBetween 1975 and 1999 he worked as a secondary school teacher of physics in schools and colleges of Santiago.\n\nIn 1984, he began teaching in higher education at the Institute of Arts and Social Sciences, which gathered intellectuals who opposed Pinochet's dictatorship and which in 1991 became the University known until today as ARCIS. He continued as a university professor, teaching epistemology and philosophy of science in psychology departments, first at the Diego Portales University and later at the University of Chile. In the late 80's he was already well known among students and scholars for his critical approach, his Marxist analysis and concrete policy proposals. In this context, he received invitations to give lectures and conferences at numerous Chilean universities so that the following years were characterized by an intense teaching activity.\n\nIn the last decade he has taught regular courses and elective seminars at the University of Chile (Faculty of Law), at the Catholic University of Valparaiso (School of Psychology), the Andrés Bello National University (School of Sociology), at University of Santiago (Department of Philosophy), Academy of Christian Humanism University (Dance School) and at the Finis Terrae University (School of Theatre).\n\nIn the late 90's he also started giving some seminars and conferences outside Chile, at the Autonomous University of Barcelona on Hegel (1997) and Marxism (1999), as well as in Cali, at the Universidad del Valle on epistemology and dialectics (1998).\n\nAt the ARCIS University, where he has focused his academic work, besides teaching in regular courses at the School of Psychology, (Psychological Theories and Systems) and the School of Sociology (Epistemology; Classics of social thought - Marx, Science, Technology and society), Philosophy (Philosophy of Science), Political Science (Theory of power and the state) and Pedagogy of Dance (Dance History), he served as senior researcher at the Center for Social Research as well as Coordinator of Academic Informatics.\n\nAs a Marxist intellectual he has been interviewed with some frequency by the leftist press, mainly because he has made relevant theoretical contributions to the political discussion. In the context of the student movement of 2011 and 2012, he actively participated providing analysis and proposals for the transformation of the Chilean educational model.\nHis class analysis of the kind of society that is set under the neoliberal economic model has attracted the interest of international organizations for him to lecture on this subject.\n\nEven among scholars of Hegel and of the reception of Hegel and Marx at the Frankfurt School, particularly by Herbert Marcuse, Carlos Perez is a regular speaker at international meetings. In addition to the vast educational activity in regular and elective courses at the universities, there is a number of free biannual seminars, which he has been giving since 2009 about the \"Phenomenology of the Spirit\" of Hegel, on Marxism and Psychoanalysis, Critical Theory of Law, History of Marxism, Carl Sagan: Introduction to the current natural philosophy.\n\nSince 2009 he also teaches as a professor of epistemology in several graduate programs (masters and doctorate) at the university Andrés Bello and the ARCIS University, addressing in his classes and seminars the critical reflection on methodological aspects of the social sciences. He usually presents himself as a teacher of physics, which intends to be \"a provocation against the academic \"establishment\"\", as he has declared. The national press, however, prefers to cite him as \"a great epistemologist\".\n\nSince 2013 he has decided to publish his books under a Creative Commons license CC BY-NC-ND (which allows you to copy and distribute the texts freely and at no costs, provided that the source is mentioned; the works can't be altered or used for commercial purposes).\n\nIn epistemology, he has developed a historical and dialectical analysis of the concept of science, more precisely:\n\n\nFrom a political point of view, Carlos Pérez places his theoretical approach and proposals for the political practice in the \"Hegelian Marxism\", a stance which, as he points out, could be constituted within the philosophical foundations for the purpose of the emergence of a new type of Marxism. Here the following contributions stand out:\n\nHis proposals for a new anti-psychiatry are also a political program. They focus on a profound critique of the psychiatric practices, on the need for an unmedicalization and de-privatization of the symptoms, in order to return the problems to the scope of their actual causes, origins and perpetuation: the social sphere. Among other differences with the anti-psychiatry postulates of the twentieth century ( Laing, Cooper or Basaglia), the \"new\" anti-psychiatry that Perez Soto promotes is one that also overcomes the paternalistic aspects of the psychiatric house as a \"shelter\", going beyond the logic of organizing a more humane or better quality psychiatric care, paving the way for an anti-psychiatry which arises from the persons themselves that are affected. Apart from a summary and historical connection of the different moments of critical psychiatry and anti-psychiatry, two specific contributions of Carlos Perez stand out:\n\nThe following contributions in the field of art and dance are important: \n\nWith his second book \"Comentar obras de danza\" (Discussing Works of Dance), he ended his excursion through the history of dance. As he explains, because he wants to return to the core of his developments. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1933583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1933583", "title": "Chronicon", "text": "Chronicon\n\nIn historiography, a chronicon is a type of chronicle or annals. Examples are:\n"}
{"id": "6518682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6518682", "title": "Community archaeology", "text": "Community archaeology\n\nCommunity archaeology is archaeology by the people for the people. The field is also known as public archaeology. There is debate about whether the terms are interchangeable; some believe that community archaeology is but one form of public archaeology, which can include many other modes of practice, in addition what is described here. The design, goals, involved communities, and methods in community archaeology projects vary greatly, but there are two general aspects found in all community archaeology projects. First, community archaeology involves communities \"in the planning and carrying out of research projects that are of direct interest to them\". Second, community archaeologists generally believe they are making an altruistic difference. Many scholars on the subject have argued that community collaboration does not have a pre-set method to follow. Although not found in every project, there are a number of recurring purposes and goals in community archaeology. Similarities are also found in different countries and regions—due to commonalities in archaeological communities, laws, institutions, and types of communities. It has also been suggested that public archaeology can be defined in a broad sense as the production and consumption of archaeological \"commodities\".\n\nIn the United States community archaeology can broadly be separated into three distinct types: projects that collaborate with American Indians, projects that collaborate with other local and descendant communities, and outreach specifically for public education.\n\nArchaeologists have a long history of excavating American Indian sites without consulting or collaborating with American Indians. Points of tension include, but are not limited to, the excavation and collection of human remains, the destruction and collections of sacred sites and objects, and archaeological interpretations that ignored or contradicted the opinions and beliefs of American Indians. Even the so-called ‘father of American archaeology’ Thomas Jefferson excavated adults and sub-adults from a site still visited by American Indians and Pilgrims plundered an American Indian grave days after anchoring at Cape Cod. Indeed, “American Indians tend to equate archaeologists with pothunters, grave looters, or, even worse, animals who feast off of the dead (i.e., the “Vulture Culture”). Most do not trust the system supposedly designed to protect their heritage.” Also, any prehistoric archaeological excavation in the Americas will involve the material products left by the ancestors of American Indians. For these reasons, community archaeology projects with both federally and non-federally recognized American Indians are different from those that collaborate with local and other descent communities. Some have found that collaboration can be a means to “break down barriers” between American Indians and archaeologists, and that in collaboration “[e]ach side learns something from the other.” There are many unique ways archaeological collaboration can benefit American Indians. Kerber reports that:\n. . . archaeology benefits American Indians and First People of Canada, respectively, by contributing important historical information; assisting in land claims; managing cultural resources and burial for protection from current and future impacts; promoting sovereignty; offering employment opportunities through field work, interpretive centers, and tourism; educating the young; aiding in nation (re-)building and self-discovery; demonstrating innovative responses of past groups to changing environmental and social circumstance; and providing populations themselves with skills and experience in doing archaeology. Clearly, collaborative archaeology is not a panacea for the difficulties facing indigenous groups, but in certain situations . . . it can be a powerful tool\nDean and Perrelli have noted that collaboration with American Indians is only new “from the perspective of the dominant culture” and that “American Indian people have been cooperating and collaborating with their neighbors and visitors for hundreds of years.”\nSome have argued that archaeologists should attempt to collaborate and repatriate materials to non-federally recognized tribes in addition to federally recognized ones. Blume has contended that when collaborating with American Indians should design \"forms of public outreach specifically for the Indian audience.\" Many recognized and non-recognized tribes have explicitly asked archaeologists for consolation and collaboration.\nTwo particularly well known examples of indigenous collaboration are Janet Spector’s book What does this Awl Mean and the Ozette Indian Village Archeological Site. Collaborations have occurred throughout the United States, including with Alaska Natives. Many tribes have also begun hiring full-time tribal archaeologists.\n\nMany other community archaeology projects occur in the United States aside from those with American Indians. These projects focus on local communities, descendent communities, and descendent diasporas. A goal of some of these projects has been to recover and publicly present forgotten aspects of the race relations in local communities—such as histories of slavery and segregation.\n\nAs a form of public outreach and collaboration, many archaeology projects in the United States have taken steps to present their work in schools and to children. These projects vary from a \"one time\" presentation to local schools, to long-term commitments in which public education is an intricate part of the research design.\n\nCommunity archaeology in the United Kingdom has existed for many years, although only recently has it come to be known by that name. The roots of archaeology in the United Kingdom lie in the tradition of antiquarian and amateur work, and many county or locally based archaeology and history societies founded over a century ago have continued to enable the involvement of local people in archaeology. Up until the 1970s volunteers often had opportunities to initiate or take part in archaeological investigations. Since then the recognition that more investigations were required by the subsequent establishment of archaeological units eroded some of these opportunities; more significantly the introduction of archaeology to the legalities of the planning process through Planning Policy Guidance note 16 (PPG16) and the full professionalization of archaeology, has made public participation in archaeology extremely limited.\n\nArchaeology (including historic buildings, landscapes and monuments, as well as ‘traditional’ archaeology) is about people and the discovery of the past. As a subject, archaeology in the United Kingdom has been increasingly brought into the public eye in recent years. The most common form of community archaeology in the United Kingdom has come from the grass roots level. Local groups are smaller than the large, county societies, and operate in their own area and at their own pace. The work produced is often of a high standard, reflecting the amount of time and effort local people are willing to put into local projects they themselves initiated. Increasingly, over the last two decades, public participation has been pushed aside by developer-led, commercial archaeology, with the bulk of work going to contracting units. The reasons behind this relate to the professionalization of the discipline and the implementation of PPG16, as discussed by Faulkner who proposed a return to community-led archaeology in his article entitled “Archaeology from below”.\nA recent investigation carried out by the Council for British Archaeology identified the main perceived barriers to public participation, gave examples of good practice in encouraging public participation, and made several recommendations for future improvements. Its first recommendation was the establishment of full-time Community Archaeologist posts across the country, as it states, “such dedicated posts represent a very effective way of stimulating and guiding public participation at a local level.”\nOne of the longest running and most successful community archaeology projects is based in Leicestershire. Leicestershire County Council (which incorporates the museum service) established the project in 1976 and today they have 400 members within 20 local groups across the county. Peter Liddle (Keeper of Archaeology) is the Community Archaeologist and was probably the first to use the term ‘community archaeology’ as the title for his fieldworker’s handbook.\n\nThe Valletta Convention affects the work of non-official or amateur groups who have been, or are, investigating their local historic environment. The European Convention on the Protection of the Archaeological Heritage (Revised) was signed in Valletta in 1992, and ratified by the UK government before coming into force on 21 March 2001. Article 3 of the document caused considerable debate as it stated that all archaeological work should be carried out by suitably qualified, authorized people. This form of ‘licensing’ for archaeologists already exists in the rest of Europe, where it has limited the work of voluntary archaeologists and local societies.\n\nAustralian Community Archaeology has a long history of community archaeology, with established disciplines and laws. In her review of community archaeology, Marshall found that there is an “antipodean dominance” in field community archaeology, suggesting that Australian community archaeology may be more established as a discipline than in other countries. This is reflected in anthologies on community archaeology in Harrison and Williamson and Colley. Generally Australian community archaeology projects have involved collaboration between archaeologists and aboriginal tribes similar to archaeologists in the United States collaborate with American Indians.\n\nHundreds, if not thousands, of community archaeology projects have occurred throughout the world—including in Brazil, Canada, Egypt, Mexico, the People's Republic of Bangladesh, South Africa, Thailand (Praicharnjit 2006, www.archaeopen.com)and Turkey. Wikipedia would greatly appreciate if scholars, students, or members of communities affiliated with Community Archaeology projects would contribute to this page.\n\nIn a reduced sense, communities are aggregations of people that “are seldom, if ever, monocultural and are never of one mind.” For understanding the goals of community archaeology projects it is helpful to classify these communities into three broad and overlapping types. That is local communities, local descent communities, and non-local descent communities or diasporas.”\n\nDescent communities are those ancestrally linked to a site. Descent communities located within proximity of the site are local descent communities, and non-local descent communities “are groups that are linked to a site, but that live in another location, potentially hundreds or even thousands of miles away.” Archaeological collaborations with local descent communities include those that focus on proto-historic sites and collaborate with American Indians ancestrally linked to them, or plantation excavations that incorporate collaborations with the local ancestors of slaves who worked at the plantation. Examples of community projects involving non-local descent communities include those where archaeologists set up museums for non-locals to come and visit.\n\nLocal communities are simply communities that live “either on or close to a site” and non-descent local communities are those not believed ancestrally related to the site. This category includes landowners, local volunteers, local organizations, and local stakeholders. Some feel that many of the major issues in community archaeology are applicable to non-local descent communities, and that these collaborations are crucial for archaeologists seeking to understand the local social context of their work.\n\nArchaeology is a practice whose history is entrenched in colonialism, and many archaeologists and communities contend that archaeology has never escaped its colonial past. A major goal of many community archaeologists and community archaeology projects is to decolonize archaeology. In decolonizing archaeology, archaeologists are trying to give communities more control over every stage in the archaeological process. For example, some programs have begun attempting to bring Indigenous leaders together globally to discuss shared methods for decolonization through archaeological collaboration. Community archaeology, the sharing of archaeological knowledge, and the below major issues have been viewed as a crucial parts of decolonization.\n\nCommunity archaeology can alleviate or prevent violence towards communities that archaeology may cause. Self-reflexivity in archaeology can be thought of as looking into a metaphorical mirror, and includes attempts to make explicitly make visible the violence—such as colonization—archaeology has been implicitly part of. Self-reflexivity in archaeology can be part of community presentation, as a means of breaking down imbalanced power dynamics between non-academic communities and archaeologists. Self-reflection amongst archaeologists—such as discussion with community members, writing field journals, and professional writings about self-reflection—can also be a means for identifying unethical and violent aspects of archaeological projects.\n\nPublic outreach, in archaeology, is a form of science outreach that attempts to present archaeological findings to non-archaeologists. Public outreach is usually a crucial aspect of most community archaeology projects. Public outreach can take many forms, from a onetime presentation to a local school to long-term agreements with local communities in developing intricate public outreach programs. Many feel that archaeology and archaeological findings have been greatly distorted by the popular media and through western associations, and that public outreach is the only way non-archaeologists will be able to understand what archaeologists actually do and find.\nOn another level, public participation can mean local people taking part in training excavations, and this type of involvement results in a hands-on learning experience in archaeological techniques.\n\nInterpretation of archaeological findings by the community is a quintessential aspect of community archaeology, and is viewed as an important aspect of “decolonizing archaeology” and giving non-archaeologists power to interpreting the past. Multiple community archaeologists have created projects that give the community a major role in the interpretation and dissemination of archaeological information. Community participation is not relegated to the interpretation of discoveries but includes contributions to any aspect of archaeology—such as theory and project goals. Community involvement ends the exclusive control that archaeologists have had over the material past, and gives non-archaeologists a chance to interpret the past. Many archaeologists now argue that the incorporation of local knowledge is important to archaeology’s survival as an academic discipline. The degree of interpretive control communities have in archaeological projects vary from using interpretations garnered from interviews and consultations, to academic publication written by community members based on community identified research questions.\n\nEthnographers and development specialists have shown that a long-term relationship is necessary to develop a rapport and mutual respect with the local community, and argue that to succeed at collaboration archaeologists must make a long-term commitment in order to understand the dynamics of the social context of their research. Without this depth of knowledge archaeologists risk making decisions with unintended consequences. For example, collaborations and repatriations have been more successful where archaeologists and American Indians have met on a regular basis and developed both friendship and mutual respect. Versaggi found that “allowing the process to take time is what matters.” Many community archaeologists now plan on conducting long-term collaborations from the outset of their project.\n\nAs a method for knowing the community, archaeologists have advocated the use of ethnographic methods in community archaeology projects. While most scholars feel that it is not necessary for all archaeologists to become trained ethnographers, a degree of ethnographic knowledge is needed before initiating a project. Some community archaeology projects rely on ethnographic data conducted by members of their research team, while others have had some success beginning with published sources or collaborating with professionals already established in the focal community.\n\nThe construction of museums or other institutions as education centers, repositories for archaeological materials and, centers for scientific and socio-cultural collaboration with a community is a common long-term goal for many community archaeology projects, and one achieved with increasing frequency. Museums have become hubs for public outreach and collaboration to both local and non-local communities. One well known example of a museum created by a collaboration between American Indians and archaeologists is the Mashantucket Pequot Museum and Research Center, which is “the largest Native American owned museum in the United States”, has multiple laboratories and collections for scientific research, and a staff that includes five full-time archaeologists.\n\nAnother method in community archaeology for the sharing and distribution of archaeological knowledge is the publication or presentation of materials specifically for the community. This includes books, pamphlets, children’s stories, school-oriented workbooks, comic books, websites, public lectures, radio programs, television shows and news coverage, dramatic reenactments, artistic and literary creations, and other forms.\n\nParticipatory action research is another method archaeologists have used in community archaeology projects.\n\nIn community archaeology, by definition decisions cannot be made based on the information from only a handful of members from a given community. Although the number of consultants needed will vary, it is rare that a small subgroup can speak for the community as a whole. Sometimes it is clear who should be contacted in a community. For example, archaeologists in the United States must contact the Tribal Historic Preservation Officer (THPO) before attempting collaboration with federally recognized tribes. In places where the appropriate contacts and stakeholders are less obvious, community archaeologists attempt to identify as many interest groups as possible and contact them before research begins.\n\nA top-down approach to community archaeology is when archaeologists decide before consultation what the goals of the project will be, or what benefits will be provided to the community is not really community archaeology at all. The top-down approach creates a one-sided exchange of information from the archaeologists to the community and precludes real collaboration. Blume found the “archaeologist-informant relationship [to be] essentially exploitative and patronizing because it takes place on the archaeologist’s terms—the informant must address issues that the archaeologists understand—and it excludes participation by [community members] who are unable or unwilling to participate on those terms.” To succeed at community archaeology, Archaeologists have begun to undertake more reflexive collaborations with indigenous communities.\n\nSome community archaeologists have had difficulty sticking to their original commitments to the community.\n\nSome have argued that ‘consulting’ archaeologists do not relinquish control over the process of interpretation, and that consulting is a ‘top-down’ approach to collaboration. Also, some definitions of the word ‘collaboration’ make allusions to opposed and/or warring parties cooperating with one another during tense or bellicose times. Dean has proposed that the word cooperate be used instead.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56488000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56488000", "title": "Cornelis de Waard", "text": "Cornelis de Waard\n\nCornelis de Waard (born August 19, 1879 in Bergen op Zoom, died in Vlissingen on May 6, 1963) was a Dutch math teacher and a historian who specialized in researching science and mathematics of the seventeenth century.\n\nDe Waard studied mathematics and physics in Amsterdam and was then a teacher in The Hague, Winschoten, and from 1909 until retirement in 1944, lived in Vlissingen.\n\nde Waard was particularly concerned with mathematicians of the first half of the 17th century such as René Descartes, Pierre de Fermat, Gilles Personne de Roberval, Blaise Pascal, Girard Desargues. He discovered and published several original writings of scholars of the seventeenth century, including 8 volumes of the correspondence Marin Mersenne and the journals of Isaac Beeckman. He assisted Étienne Gilson in the preparation of his edition of Descartes' \"Discourse on the Method\". In his 1906 “De uitvinding der verrekijkers” (\"The Discovery of the Telescope\"), one of the first modern works on the subject, he put forward evidence that supported Middelburg spectacle-maker Zacharias Janssen as the inventor of the device.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38127849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38127849", "title": "Daniele Ganser", "text": "Daniele Ganser\n\nDaniele Ganser (born August 29, 1972 in Lugano) is a Swiss historian. He became known in Europe with his 2005 book \"NATO's Secret Armies\", an adaption of his 2001 dissertation. Since then he has published, among other things, on open and covert military actions of NATO countries, which he describes as being contrary to international law, as well as on the global maximum production of crude oil. He picks up on various conspiracy theories, especially on 9/11 and presents them as explanatory approaches still to be examined by scientists. Many media label him a conspiracy theorist and scientists dissociate themselves.\n\nGanser was born in Lugano, Switzerland and was Senior Researcher at the ETH Zurich, Center for Security Studies (CSS). He was president (2006–2012) of the Swiss branch of the \"Association for the Study of Peak Oil and Gas\" (ASPO), and taught a summer course titled \"History and Future of Energy Systems\" at the University of St. Gallen.\n\nIn 2004, Ganser published \"NATO's Secret Armies: Operation Gladio and Terrorism in Western Europe\". In this book, Ganser states that Gladio units were in close cooperation with NATO and the CIA and that Gladio in Italy was responsible for terrorist attacks against the Italian civilian population.\n\nPeer Henrik Hansen, a scholar at Roskilde University, wrote two scathing criticisms of the book for the \"International Journal of Intelligence and Counterintelligence\" and the \"Journal of Intelligence History\", describing Ganser's work as \"a journalistic book with a big spoonful of conspiracy theories\" that \"fails to present proof of and an in-depth explanation of the claimed conspiracy between USA, CIA, NATO and the European countries.\" Hansen also criticized Ganser for basing his \"claim of the big conspiracy\" on the US Army Field Manual 30-31B, which members of the intelligence community claim is just a 'Cold War era hoax document.' \n\nHayden Peake's book review \"Intelligence in Recent Public Literature\" describes: \"Ganser fails to document his thesis that the CIA, MI6, and NATO and its friends turned GLADIO into a terrorist organization.\" \n\nPhilip H.J. Davies of the Brunel University Centre for Intelligence and Security Studies likewise concludes that the book is \"marred by imagined conspiracies, exaggerated notions of the scale and impact of covert activities, misunderstandings of the management and coordination of operations within and between national governments, and... an almost complete failure to place the actions and decisions in question in the appropriate historical context.\" According to Davies, \"The underlying problem is that Ganser has not really undertaken the most basic necessary research to be able to discuss covert action and special operations effectively\". \n\nOlav Riste of the Norwegian Institute for Defence Studies, writing for the journal \"Intelligence and National Security\", mentions several instances where his own research on the stay-behind network in Norway was twisted by Ganser and concludes that \"A detailed refutation of the many unfounded allegations that Ganser accepts as historical findings would fill an entire book\". In a later joint article with Leopoldo Nuti of the University of Rome III, the two concluded that the book's \"ambitious conclusions do not seem to be entirely corroborated by a sound evaluation of the sources available.\"\n\nLawrence Kaplan wrote a mixed review commending Ganser for making \"heroic efforts to tease out the many strands that connect this interlocking right-wing conspiracy\", but also arguing that \"Connecting the dots between terrorist organizations in NATO countries and a master plan centred in NATO's military headquarters requires a stretch of facts that Ganser cannot manage.\" Kaplan believes that some of Ganser's theories \"may be correct\", but that \"they do damage to the book's credibility.\" \n\nIn a mostly positive review for the journal \"Cold War History\", Beatrice Heuser praised Ganser's \"fascinating study\" while also noting that \"It would definitely have improved the work if Ganser had used a less polemical tone, and had occasionally conceded that the Soviet Empire was by no means nicer\". \n\nSecurity analyst John Prados writes \"Ganser, the principal analyst of Gladio, presents evidence across many nations that Gladio networks amounted to anti-democratic elements in their own societies.\"\n\nThe U.S. State Department stated in 2006 that Ganser had been taken in by long-discredited Cold-War era disinformation and \"fooled by the forgery\". In an article about the Gladio/stay-behind networks and US Army Field Manual 30-31B they stated, \"Ganser treats the forgery as if it was a genuine document in his 2005 book on “stay behind” networks, \"Secret Armies: Operation Gladio and Terrorism in Western Europe\" and includes it as a key document on his Web site on the book.\n\nGanser wrote a chapter for David Ray Griffin's book \"9/11 & American Empire\". Ganser argues that all three versions – the \"surprise\" theory (the commonly accepted version that he calls \"the official version\") as well as the versions that the administration let the attack go ahead or even planned it – are all actually conspiracy theories. The U.S. Embassy has protested Ganser's views. \n\nGanser is known for relating the events of 9/11 to his research on Operation Gladio. In the same way that the strategy of tension, which Ganser links to Operation Gladio, sought to pin right-wing terrorist attacks on the political left in order to inspire fear among the citizenry, Ganser likewise contends that \"it has been said that Saddam Hussein had biological weapons, that there was a link between Iraq and the attacks of September 11, or that there was a link between Iraq and the terrorists of Al Qaeda. But all this was not true. By these lies, we wanted to make the world believe that the Muslims wanted to spread terrorism around, that this war was necessary to fight terror. However, the real reason for the war is the control of energy resources.\"\n\nGanser also calls into question the conclusions of the 9/11 Commission. He believes that \"the official story about September 11th, the conclusions of the commission, are not credible\" and \"The information that we have is not very precise. Which raises the question in this report of 600 pages is that the third tower that collapsed that day is not even mentioned.\" Ganser says we would only know because of blurred video images, something flew into the Pentagon, an open, objective and scientific debate on all outstanding issues of 9/11 would be important and calls for a new investigation.\n\nDaniele Ganser is a member of the 9/11 Consensus Panel and said that \"Because all three theories implicitly start from a secret agreement of two or more persons, all three must be called conspiracy theories.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4505660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4505660", "title": "E. K. Chambers", "text": "E. K. Chambers\n\nSir Edmund Kerchever Chambers, (16 March 1866 – 21 January 1954), usually known as E. K. Chambers, was an English literary critic and Shakespearean scholar. His four-volume work on \"The Elizabethan Stage\", published in 1923, remains a standard resource.\n\nChambers was born in West Ilsley, Berkshire. His father was a curate there and his mother the daughter of a Victorian theologian. He was educated at Marlborough College, before matriculating at Corpus Christi College, Oxford. He won a number of prizes, including the chancellor's prize in English for an essay on literary forgery. He took a job with the national education department, and married Eleanor Bowman in 1893.\n\nIn the newly created Board of Education, Chambers worked principally to oversee adult and continuing education. He rose to be second secretary, but the work for which he is remembered took place outside the office, at least before he retired from the Board in 1926. He was the first president of the Malone Society, serving from 1906 to 1939. He edited collections of verse for Oxford University Press. He produced a work on King Arthur and a privately printed collection of poems.\n\nHowever, Chambers's great work, begun even before he left Oxford and pursued for three decades, was a great examination of the history and conditions of English theatre in the medieval and Renaissance periods. This study, which Chambers (in the preface to \"Elizabethan Stage\") called prolegomena to a \"little book on Shakespeare,\" was published in three bursts. \"The Medieval Stage\", issued in 1903, offered a comprehensive survey of medieval theatre, covering not only the fairly well-known interludes, but also the then-obscure folk drama, minstrelsy, and liturgical drama. \"The Elizabethan Stage\" followed after two decades. The work, though it contained less original discovery than its predecessor, remains among the most useful depictions of the material conditions of English Renaissance theatre. W. W. Greg described it as \"one of those books which perhaps no living person is in a position to criticise adequately.\" It remains in use today. In 1930 came at last the two-volume work on Shakespeare, which collected and analysed the extant evidence of Shakespeare's work and life.\n\nIn his retirement, Chambers produced works on Coleridge and Matthew Arnold. After moving to Eynsham, Oxfordshire, he returned to medieval history, producing a volume in the Oxford history and a local study of Eynsham. He died in 1954.\n\nChambers was invested as a Companion of the Order of the Bath in 1912, KBE in 1925. In 1924, he was elected fellow of the British Academy and his biography \"Samuel Taylor Coleridge\" was awarded the 1938 James Tait Black Memorial Prize.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9748442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9748442", "title": "Elaine Fantham", "text": "Elaine Fantham\n\nElaine Fantham (née Crosthwaite, 25 May 1933 – 11 July 2016) was a British-Canadian classicist whose expertise lay particularly in Latin literature, especially comedy, epic poetry and rhetoric, and in the social history of Roman women. Much of her work was concerned with the intersection of literature and Greek and Roman history. She spoke fluent Italian, German and French and presented lectures and conference papers around the world—including in Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Argentina, and Australia.\n\nHer commentaries on Senecan tragedy, Lucan, and Ovid's \"Fasti\" in particular led to renewed interest in these subjects. Likewise her articles on aspects of the representation and realities of women at Rome remain a foundation for academic work in these areas. She was also classics commentator on NPR's \"Weekend Edition\".\n\nFantham was Giger Professor of Latin at Princeton University from 1986 to 1999.\n\nFantham studied at Somerville College, Oxford, where she read \"Literae Humaniores\" and received a first class degree in 1954. She completed an master's degree at the University of Oxford in 1957 and held a Leverhulme Research Fellowship at the University of Liverpool 1956–58. She completed her PhD at the University of Liverpool in 1965. Its thesis was entitled 'A Commentary on the \"Curculio\" of Plautus', and was examined by R. B. Austin and O. Skutsch.\n\nFantham taught in a secondary school for girls in St Andrews, Scotland, for seven years, and briefly at the University of St Andrews. She moved to Indiana University Bloomington, and was a Visiting Lecturer for two years (1966–68). Following this, Fantham moved to Toronto where she taught at the University of Toronto for eighteen years (1968–86), being also appointed a Visiting Professor at Ohio State University, in Columbus, Ohio in 1983. She was chair of the Department of Classics at Princeton University from 1989 to 1992. In 1986 the university appointed her Giger Professor of Latin, a position which she held until her retirement in 2000.\n\nAfter retiring from Princeton University, Fantham lived in Toronto with her daughter, and continued to make significant contributions to the department of Classics at the University of Toronto. She taught an annual course there from 2003. She was active as a mentor across Canada and around the world.\n\nBetween 1976 and 1979 Fantham was a member of the editorial committee of \"Phoenix,\" a journal of the Classical Association of Canada and did much to establish the international reputation of the journal. Fantham was Vice-President of the Classical Association of Canada from 1982 to 1984, and Vice-President and later President of the Canadian Society for the History of Rhetoric (1983–1986). From 2003 to 2004 Fantham was President of the American Philological Association and, from 2001 to 2006, she was Honorary President of the Classical Association of Canada.\n\nOn 5 January 2008 Fantham was given the Distinguished Service Award of the American Philological Association. In 2012 she was made an Honorary Fellow of Trinity College, University of Toronto. In May 2015 Fantham was awarded the Classical Association of Canada's Award of Merit.\n\nElaine Fantham was born in Liverpool, United Kingdom. She was married to the mathematician Peter Fantham and had two children, Julia and Roy.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "353865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=353865", "title": "Gaius Acilius", "text": "Gaius Acilius\n\nGaius Acilius (fl. 155 BC) was a senator and historian of ancient Rome. \nHe knew Greek, and in 155 BC interpreted for Carneades, Diogenes, and Critolaus, who had come to the Roman Senate on an embassy from Athens.\n\nPlutarch cites Acilius' history in \"the Life of Remus\". His history was written in Greek and contained events at least as late as 184 BC (according to Dionysius of Halicarnassus), and it appeared around 142 BC (mentioned in Livy). The work was translated into Latin by a Claudius, most likely Claudius Quadrigarius, but only fragments survive.\n\n"}
{"id": "2506738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2506738", "title": "Gil González de Ávila", "text": "Gil González de Ávila\n\nGil González de Ávila (1570 or 1577 – 1658) was a Spanish biographer and antique collector.\n\nHe was born and died at Ávila. He spent his early years in Rome, where he was educated at the residence of Cardinal Deza. He returned to Spain when he was 20 and settled in Salamanca. He was called to Madrid and made historiographer to the Crown of Castile in 1612, and for the Indies in 1641. Of his numerous works, the most valuable are his \"Teatro de las Grandezas des Madrid\" (Madrid, 1623, sqq.), and his \"Teatro Eclesiastico\", descriptive of the metropolitan churches and cathedrals of Castile, with lives of the prelates (Madrid, 1645–1653, 4 vols.)\n\nAttribution\n\n"}
{"id": "1599366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1599366", "title": "Giovanni Francesco Gemelli Careri", "text": "Giovanni Francesco Gemelli Careri\n\nGiovanni Francesco Gemelli Careri (1651–1725) was a seventeenth-century Italian adventurer and traveler. He was among the first Europeans to tour the world by securing passage on ships involved in the carrying trade; his travels, undertaken for pleasure rather than profit, may have inspired \"Around the World in Eighty Days.\" Some suspected him of spying for the Vatican on his journey.\n\nGemelli Careri was born in Taurianova, 1651, and died in Naples, 1725. He obtained a doctorate in law at the College of Jesuits in Naples. After completing his studies he briefly entered the judiciary. In 1685 he took time off to travel around Europe (France, Spain, Germany, and Hungary). In Hungary he was wounded when an army of Turks besieged Buda.\n\nIn 1687 he returned to Naples and re-entered the judiciary. He also began work on his first two books: \"Relazione delle Campagne d'Ungheria\" (1689) with co-author Matteo Egizio, and \"Viaggi in Europa\" (1693). At this time Gemelli encountered frustrations with his legal profession. He was denied certain opportunities because he did not have an established aristocratic origin. Eventually, he decided to suspend his career for a round-the-world trip. This five-year trip would lead to his best known six-volume book, \"Giro Del Mondo\" (1699).\n\nGemelli Careri realized that he could finance his trip by carefully purchasing goods at each stage that would have enhanced value at the next stage: at Bandar-Abbas on the Persian Gulf, he asserts, the traveler should pick up \"dates, wine, spirits, and all the fruits of Persia, which one carries to India either dried or pickled in vinegar, on which one makes a good profit\".\n\nGemelli Careri started his world trip in 1693, with a visit to Egypt, Constantinople, and the Holy Land. At the time, this Middle Eastern route was already becoming a standard ingredient of any excursion into foreign lands, a hike that was almost not worth writing home about. However, from there the Italian 'tourist' would take less traveled paths. After crossing Armenia and Persia, he visited Southern India and entered China, where the Jesuit missionaries assumed that such an unusual Italian visitor could be a spy working for the pope. This fortuitous misunderstanding opened for Gemelli many of the most tightly closed doors of the country. He got to visit the emperor at Beijing, attended the Lantern Festival celebrations and toured the Great Wall.\n\n\"Almost all the structure, as has been said, is of brick, so well built that it does not only last but looks new after several ages. It is above 1800 years since the Emperor Xi-hoam-ti caused it to be built against the incursions of the Tartars. This was one of the greatest, and most extravagant works that ever was undertaken. In prudence the Chinese should have secured the most dangerous passes: But what I thought most ridiculous was to see the wall run up to the top of a vast high and steep mountain, where the Birds would hardly build much less the Tartar horses climb... And if they conceited those people could make their way climbing the clefts and rocks it was certainly a great folly to believe their fury could be stopped by so low a wall.\"\n\nFrom Macau, Gemelli Careri sailed to the Philippines, where he stayed two months while waiting for the departure of a Manila galleon, for which he carried quicksilver, for a 300% profit in Mexico. In the meantime, as Gemelli described it in his journal, the half-year-long transoceanic trip to Acapulco was a nightmare plagued with bad food, epidemic outbursts, and the occasional storm. In Mexico, he became friends with Mexican creole patriot and savant Don Carlos de Sigüenza y Góngora, who took the Italian traveler to the great ruins of Teotihuacan. Sigüenza spoke with Gemelli about his theories of the ancient Mexicans and entrusted him with information about the Mexican calendar, which appeared in Gemelli's account. As well as having visited the pyramids at Teotihuacan, he also visited several mining towns. After leaving Mexico city he visited the city of Puebla de Los Angeles and several towns as he traveled to the port city of Veracruz, where he joined a Spanish fleet to Cuba. After five years of wandering around the world, Gemelli was finally on his way back to Europe when he joined the Spanish treasure fleet in Cuba.\n\n\nThe aim of \"Giro Del Mondo\" - a faithful description of the countries visited - was emphasized by Giosef-Antonio Guerrieri in his preface. While pointing out the difference between the account of a journey and \"an imaginary journey\", Guerrieri praised Gemelli Careri for the reliability of his experiences, and criticized those who were prone to fantasize over geographic maps.\n\nFor many years scholars and experts did not consider Gemelli Careri's adventurous journey authentic. With time, however, its truthfulness was proved, and it was also ascertained that he collected important historical documents in order to know those exotic realities in greater detail. Indeed, the sixth volume of \"Giro Del Mondo\", which covers only Mexico, contains information gathered from codices that existed prior to the Conquest, which he got access to via Don Carlos de Sigüenza y Góngora; it also contains several illustrations of Aztec warriors gathered from these codices. In New Spain, Gemelli Careri had the opportunity to study the pyramids carefully (their affinity to the Egyptian pyramids led him to believe that the ancient Egyptians and the Amerindians both descended from the inhabitants of Atlantis), which Sigüenza had long held. Due to lack of funds, Sigüenza himself had been unable to publish much on the ancient Mexicans, but through Gemelli's work was able to disseminate his ideas and even drawings from the ancient Mexican manuscripts.\n\nAn 1849 release of \"The Calcutta Review\" (a periodical now published by the University of Calcutta), stated the following about Gemelli's writings concerning India: \"In a previous number of this Review we made an attempt to describe something of the Court and Camp of the best and wisest prince Muhainmedan India had ever beheld (Aurungzebe, Mogul emperor of Hindustan)... To this we are urged by two main considerations, the character of the age, and the materials at our command... Sir H. M. Elliot's work has... met with, to a certain extent, adverse criticism, and some doubts have been raised as to the soundness, or the justice, of its conclusions. It is therefore (possible that readers may be willing) to peruse a description of the Government of Aurungzebe, taken not from native historians, but from the accounts of men who saw with the eyes of travelers.\n\nFrom three men, who all visited India during the reign of Aurungzebe, the most valuable and the most curious information is attainable... The second of the triumvirate, on whom we mainly rely, is the Doctor John Francis Gemelli Careri. Natural curiosity and domestic misfortunes were, he tells us, his motives for traveling. Of the three (sources this paper is based), he is the most discursive in his narration, the most piquant in his anecdotes, the most amusing in his simplicity. As he traveled for no one particular aim, but to see and to hear, there are few Indian topics, on which he does not give us something. Natural productions, the beasts and the birds, manners, Hindu theology, state maxims, the causes of Portuguese supremacy and degradation, anecdotes of the camp, the convent, and the Harem, accidents by water and land, complaints of personal inconvenience, and remarks on the tendency of Eastern despotism, are scattered plentifully throughout a narrative, which owes very much to the author's own liveliness and observation, but occasionally something, we are compelled to say, to the labours of others who had gone before. His plagiarism is, however, confined to specifications of caste or creed. Where he saw or suffered personally, his narrative is clear, picturesque, and beyond suspicion.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "11191809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11191809", "title": "History of the Jews in Laupheim", "text": "History of the Jews in Laupheim\n\nThe history of the Jews in Laupheim began in the first half of the 18th century. Until the second half of the 19th century, the Jewish community in Laupheim, expanded continuously to become the largest of its kind in Württemberg. During this period, the Jewish community gradually assimilated to its Christian surroundings and its members prospered until the beginning of the Nazi-period in 1933. With the deportation of the last remaining Jews in 1942, more than 200 years of Jewish history in Laupheim forcibly came to an end.\n\nAt the beginning of the 18th century, Laupheim was a small market town in Upper Swabia and politically part of Further Austria. Jews were allowed to enter the town as pedlars but permanent residence was refused. Since the 15th century, Jews were not allowed to settle within the territories of the surrounding free imperial cities, nor in the Duchy of Württemberg. The settlement of Jews in the territories of Imperial Knights, however, was often welcomed. These rulers were often highly in debt due to the fragmentation of their territories, as was the case with Laupheim being separated into two independent states, Großlaupheim and Kleinlaupheim, as well as frequent wars. The income generated by taxation of the Jews helped to sustain the life-style of the nobility and also to stimulate the local economy.\n\nHans Pankraz von Freyberg, the ruler of Laupheim between 1570 and 1582, explicitly forbade his subjects any contact with Jews and another early local law from 1622 threatened any inhabitant of Laupheim, who got involved with Jews with a fine of 25 fl. However, by then Jewish communities had already been established in Upper Swabia. The local ruler of the nearby village of Baltringen allowed Jews to settle there in 1572. In the villages of Schwendi and Orsenhausen, the last of which still has a \"Judengasse\" (\"Jews' Lane\"), Jewish communities seem to have existed well before the 18th century. In Laupheim, the presence of Jewish traders on market days in the 17th century is documented. Yet, permanent Jewish presence in Laupheim was not permitted until the 18th century.\n\nIn 1724, Abraham Kissendorfer from Illeraichheim petitioned the owner of Großlaupheim, Constantin Adolf von Welden, and the owner of Kleinlaupheim, Damian Carl von Welden, to allow three Jewish families, later extended to twenty, to settle in Laupheim. After some negotiation, an agreement was reached and permission for a permanent Jewish presence was granted so that four Jewish families entered Laupheim: Leopold Jakob, Josef Schlesinger and Leopold Weil from Buchau, and David Obernauer from Grundsheim. The first protection contract between them and the local authorities dates from 1730 which indicates that the final arrival of the four Jewish families occurred in that year. This contract was at first limited to 20 years. The first house for the newly arrived Jews was erected between 1730 and 1731. The Jews had to contribute to the costs of the house with 100 fl each.\n\nVarious taxes, financial obligations and restrictions were imposed on the Jews: a special death duty as well as compensation for various services the local serfs were obliged to perform and from which the Jews were exempt, had to be paid; an extra tax per capita was also imposed by Austrian officials. Furthermore, Jews had to wear special garment and hats and were allowed to trade in any goods except those that were considered to be of suspicious or dubious origin, such as wet cloth, unthreshed grain and untanned hide, as well as goods that had a particular Christian, liturgical character. Transactions of more than 4 fl had to be registered with the local authorities. The slaughter of animals according to Jewish rites and the selling of the meat itself were allowed. However, the tongue of each slaughtered cow as well as the innards of calves and sheep slaughtered according to Jewish rites had to be handed over to the authorities. Alternatively, 4 kr could be paid for each slaughtered animal. Jews were not allowed to buy and own property and to prevent any of their community from converting to Christianity. On the other hand, they were strictly forbidden to convert any Christians to Judaism.\n\nIn the years after 1730, more Jewish families came to Laupheim from Fellheim, Fischach, Illeraichheim and other places, where Jews had already been allowed to settle, so that, when, in 1754, the protection contract, which had expired some time before, was renewed for another 30 years, the Jewish community in Laupheim had grown to 27 families. The contract was again renewed in 1784 and with each of these renewals a substantial fee of 800 fl had to be paid. The families arriving after 1750 had to have their houses built at their own expense. The area where those dwellings were built was allocated by the local rulers, who also kept the legal right to the properties. After 1784, these houses were held by the Jews as hereditary fiefs from the local rulers.\n\nA plot of uncultivated land to the north of the Jewish settlement in Laupheim was bought by the infant community shortly after their settlement to be used as a cemetery. Due to the rapid growth of the population the cemetery had to be expanded in 1784, 1856 and again 1877.\n\nOnce the quorum of ten or more adult male Jews was reached, (Minyan), the first Jews in Laupheim used a room on the first floor in the house of butcher Michael Laupheimer, located on the \"Judengasse\", for their religious services. However, the continuous, rapid growth of the Jewish community made it necessary to have a synagogue built. It was built as an L-shaped building next to the cemetery close to the spot where later on the Jewish mortuary was to be built.\n\nUnlike the unfree Christian population of both parts of Laupheim, the Jewish inhabitants had a considerable larger autonomy in administrating their own communal affairs. Around 1760, a Jewish community seems to have been officially established with the permission to elect two \"parnassim\", chairmen of the community, one for each part of the divided Laupheim, as the town had been separated into Großlaupheim and Kleinlaupheim since 1621. The \"parnassim\" were allowed to make independent decision concerning the internal affairs of the Jewish community. Other tasks included the appointment of the rabbi and the \"chazzan\". These officials were not included in the number of Schutzjuden (\"Protected Jews\") and were exempt from the annual protection fee the other Jewish inhabitants of Laupheim had to pay. The Jewish community as a whole had to pay the fees for the \"parnassim\" and it also had to provide for their accommodation. The \"parnassim\" and the rabbi had restricted legal authority over members of the community, being permitted to exact, up to a certain amount, financial penalties. In cases they were not allowed to decide, respected non-local rabbis were consulted and in very important legal disputes, the files were sent for consultation to the Jewish communities in Frankfurt, Fürth or even as far as Prague. In criminal cases and in disputes between Christians and Jews, the local ruler reserved the right to make a legal decision.\n\nThe settlement of the Jews in Laupheim developed on the so-called \"Judenberg\" (\"Jews’ mountain\" or rather \"Jews’ hill\") with the \"Judengasse\" (\"Jews’ Lane\") at its centre, a ghetto-like area, separated from the rest of the town, yet in close proximity to the market square. The \"Judenberg\" forms a regular square where the 8 oldest houses, arranged in 3 rows, are positioned parallel to one of the main streets leading away from the town centre. The local Jews were allowed to influence the planning and design of their houses from the end of the 18th century onwards. It is remarkable, even today, that all houses are approachable from the front as well as the back, and that even the front yards and front gardens are not fenced in. The reason for this lies in the fact that the \"Judengasse\" was meant to incorporate the whole Jewish settlement to form an \"eruv\".\n\nAfter having received the houses as hereditary fiefs in 1784, Jews were allowed to buy their houses from 1812 onwards. In 1807, 41 families lived in 17 houses on the \"Judenberg\". In 1820, the number had risen to 59 families living in 34 houses.\n\nThis growth in population made it necessary in 1822, to have an even bigger synagogue built. The new building was erected at a cost of 16.000 fl. However, due to errors made during the construction, the building had to be completely broken down less than 15 years later, to be replaced by a new building in 1836/1837. This new synagogue had a length of approximately 24 metres and was approximately 13 metres wide.\n\nIn 1806, both parts of Laupheim were annexed by the newly formed Kingdom of Württemberg. As a consequence the Jews in Laupheim now fell under the jurisdiction of Württemberg. Initially, there were no changes in the legal status of Jews living within the kingdom. However, the Jews’ Act of 1828 meant a considerable improvement in the status of the Jews. The legal obligation of Jews living only in the areas allocated by the authorities was lifted. Jews now had the freedom to settle and live wherever they decided to. The effect of this law in Laupheim meant that very soon the Jewish population had houses built along the \"Kapellenstraße\" and the surrounding areas so that the street unofficially received the name of \"Judenstraße\" (\"Jews' Street\"). The fact that in a relative short period of time so many new buildings could be erected is an indication of the prosperity of the Jewish community, particularly regarding the recession and the famines that followed the Napoleonic Wars. Another indication for this prosperity was the fact that, when a couple wanted to get married, it had to prove a certain amount of wealth before the permission to marry was granted by the local ruler, more Jewish inhabitants of Laupheim were able to get married than their Christian fellow-citizens. The act of 1828 also lifted any restrictions with regards to the prohibition of Jews to choose their professions. From now on, Jews were allowed to choose and work in any profession they wished. Furthermore, the prohibition of Jews to buy and own property was abolished.\n\nIn the years following this decree, Jews from Laupheim bought several bankrupt agricultural businesses in the surrounding villages as well as within the town of Laupheim itself, split them into smaller entities and sold them off again, thereby making considerable profit. One example of this is the acquisition of Großlaupheim Castle with all its property by the family Steiner in 1843. In 1840, Karl von Welden, the last feudal lord of Laupheim, sold the castle to the state of Württemberg. He was bitterly disappointed with his subjects obstinate behaviour towards him as their former feudal lord (they had taken him to court for 300 different offences) and sold the castles to the Kingdom of Württemberg. Großlaupheim Castle with all accompanying lands was acquired by the Jewish merchant Viktor Steiner whose family managed to hold on to the possession for five generations, even through the Nazi-period, until 1961. After Viktor Steiner's death in 1865, his son, Daniel Steiner, and his son-in-law, Salomon Klein, became heirs to the business. They, in turn, sold it on to Laupheim-born banker and industrialist Kilian Steiner, who had resided in Stuttgart.\n\nThe government's policy to encourage young Jews to learn one of the crafts they had been excluded from, only met with partial success. Even though more Jews became apprentices to craftsmen, they usually chose a profession which later enabled them to change it into a craft-related trade.\n\nA side effect of the act was that those Jews who had not used a surname as yet were forced to acquire family names. Few of the Laupheim Jews had had surnames. Those that had used them were the families of Einstein, Obernauer and Weil. Suddenly new families seemed to emerge even though they had been living in Laupheim for quite some time. There were several options: one, to Germanise the first name, which led, amongst others, to Levi, Löw, Löffler and Levinger, instead of Levi, or to Heumann instead of Hayum. A second option was to use the name of the place from where the family had once moved to Laupheim. This resulted in family names such as Nördlinger, Öttinger, Hofheimer and Thannhauser. Furthermore, not only surnames were suddenly Germanised but first names were adapted to the German speaking environment too. Hayum became, for example, Heinrich, Baruch was changed to Berthold or Bernhard, so that at the end of the 19th century, it was almost impossible to distinguish the Jewish citizens of Laupheim from their Christian fellow-citizens simply because of their names.\n\nThe Jews' Act of 1828 forced the rabbis to keep vital records of all members of their community, something Christian priests had been obliged to do so for a long time. Rabbis now had to keep records of all birth certificates, marriage licenses, and death certificates. This turned the office of rabbi from being a purely spiritual leader into a semi-official function, the tasks of which also included administration for which he was accountable to the officials of the Kingdom of Württemberg.\n\nThe economic equality granted to the Jews in 1828 caused an increase in building works in Laupheim which, in turn, caused an increase in the economic fortunes of the small market town. This is demonstrated by the fact that the number of building-related craftsmen doubled within ten years between 1845 and 1856. The weekly market, which had been discontinued at the beginning of the century, was reintroduced in 1842. Although it had to compete with the larger markets in Ulm and Biberach, it still managed to hold its own as many horse and cattle traders as well as pedlars and hawkers, quite a few of whom were Jewish, visited the market in Laupheim, further contributing to its prosperity. Also, a great number of the founders of the local trade bank, an early form of the Credit Union, in 1868, were Jewish entrepreneurs from Laupheim.\nUntil 1933 they were to partake in its development in prominent positions.\n\nIn 1864, Jews living in the Kingdom of Württemberg, were finally granted complete political equality. This meant that after achieving economic emancipation, they were now citizens with the same rights and obligations as their Christian neighbours. Soon after this, in 1868, the first Jewish counsellors appeared on the town council, Samuel Lämmle being the first Jew elected to it.\n\nThe Laupheim Jews contributed substantially to the effort to have Laupheim elevated to the status of city, by appealing repeatedly to the King of Württemberg to grant Laupheim this status from the early years of the 1860s onwards. Finally, in a charter of 1869, the King of Württemberg conferred on Laupheim city rights.\n\nIronically, the absolute number of Jewish inhabitants in Laupheim reached its zenith the very same year. In 1856, the number of Jewish inhabitants constituted more than a fifth of all inhabitants of Laupheim, even though the absolute number was less than in 1869. This is because the general population of Laupheim grew disproportionally. In 1869, 843 Jews were registered in Laupheim, accounting for approximately twelve percent of the total population. From this year onwards, the Jewish population dwindled. The reason for this lies in the fact that for many Jewish inhabitants, Laupheim did not offer enough opportunities to sustain a living. This process of migration had already started in the 1850s with many Laupheim Jews being attracted to the bigger cities, such as Ulm, Stuttgart, Munich and Frankfurt. Furthermore, between 1835 and 1870, no less than 176 Jewish inhabitants of Laupheim emigrated to the United States, particularly after the failed revolution of 1848 and its ensuing economic crisis, which was felt most harshly by those who were less affluent. Some did return but most stayed and became an integral part of the United States. This development gathered momentum in the 1870s with more and more Jewish inhabitants leaving Laupheim either to move abroad or to other centres within the newly founded German Empire.\n\nThe upturn in Jewish fortunes was also shown in the fact that the community could afford to have the synagogue completely rebuilt and refurbished. As early as 1845 there had been complaints that the synagogue was too small to accommodate the growing numbers of believers. The works for the new synagogue finished in May 1877. By adding two towers with domed roofs and wide, rounded windows, the building was given a renaissance-like appearance.\n\nDuring this period, several businesses were founded or expanded. A company producing wooden tools, founded by Josef Steiner and his four sons, became one of the leading distributors of products of this kind in southern Germany. A company for refinement of hair products was founded by the brothers Bergmann. This company still exists today, having been aryanised after 1933, only to be given back to its rightful owners after 1945, and is now operating worldwide. A textile mill was established by Emmanuel Heumann, continued by his sons, in the town centre. The premises were later moved to the suburbs. The hop merchant Steiner also began in Laupheim to become one of the leading players in this market after expanding into the United States. The headquarters of this company are now in New York City. Until the 1880s, trading in real estate was in Jewish hands but this vanished completely after the establishing of the credit union. The local dealers in livestock, however, were until after 1933 predominantly Jewish as well as the traders in liquor, wine, oil, grain and timber. There were even a few private banks owned by Jews, which were successful enough to survive well into the 1930s but were forced to close down after 1933 following the immense pressure put on them by the National Socialist administration.\n\nAround and in the vicinity of the market square, several retail shops were established, specializing in selling textile products. The first department store in Laupheim was erected in 1906 by Jewish merchant Daniel David Einstein whose family had been residents of Laupheim since the second half of the 17th century. Until the late 1980s, it was still possible to see the by then faded name of the original owner above the entrance. A number of public houses were also run by Jewish landlords. Less remarkable and yet important are the contributions made by local Jewish craftsmen. There were several bakers and butchers, serving the Jewish as well as the Christian inhabitants of Laupheim. Also, a number of Jewish cobblers, furriers, clockmakers, tailors and wood turners had their shops near the market square.\n\nBy the end of the 19th century Jews in Laupheim were completely integrated and assimilated into society, being part of all walks of life, a situation which would not change for more than 30 years. This assimilation is seen by the fact that many, more affluent Jews moved away from the confinement of the \"Judenberg\". Consequently, many of the Gründerzeit buildings still existing in Laupheim were erected by Jews.\n\nTraditionally, the education of the children of a Jewish family rested with the father. However, the absence of many fathers due to their frequently being away from home in their capacity as traders, made it necessary to employ travelling teachers who received food and accommodation in return for their services. These teachers, called \"chedarim\", received a contract of six months, usually terminating at either Pesach or Sukkot. In 1808, the number of Jewish children amounted to 39 which indicates that many children were sent to either Christian schools or to Jewish schools outside Laupheim. The first Jewish school was founded only in 1823, when the Jewish community rented a ballroom in a public house to be used as a classroom and hired a teacher, Simon Tannenbaum from Mergentheim. He acted as head teacher until his retirement in 1860. As his assistant Abraham Sänger from Buttenhausen was taken on and worked as teacher until his death in 1856. His descendants run the public house \"Zum Ochsen\" until after 1933. In 1830, the Jewish community bought a house opposite the synagogue which was refurbished to house the rabbi's office and the school. This building functioned as school until 1868 when a new Jewish school was built in the vicinity of the \"Judenberg\" in the \"Radgasse\". This building was demolished in 1969. Due to the lack of Jewish teachers, for several years Roman Catholic teachers were asked to help out. In 1874, 162 Jewish pupils attended the Jewish school. In the following decades, the number of Jewish pupils would decrease continuously, so that, at the beginning of the 20th century, the Jewish school taught only 65 pupils. However, the Jewish school existed until well into the 1930s and was only closed in 1939.\n\nThe first Jewish society (\"Chewra Kadischah\") was founded in 1748 with the task of looking after the ill and taking care of funerals. This society was active for almost 200 years. In 1780, the Talmud-Torah-Society was founded to assist the religious instruction of fellow Jews and to take care of young people. It was accompanied by a welfare society \"Nathan Basseser\", founded in 1804, the Jewish Women Society and the Jewish Orphan Fund, supporting the Jewish orphanage in Esslingen, in 1838.\nJewish societies sprang up not only for charitable but also for sociable purposes. A choral society, called \"Frohsinn\" (Cheerfulness), was founded in 1845 and went on to win many prizes at choir festivals. The reading society \"Konkordia\" (Concord) came into existence in 1846 on the initiative of the Laupheim-born rabbi-candidate Max Sänger.\n\nAfter the appointment of Adolf Hitler as Chancellor of Germany on 30 January 1933 and the subsequent seizure of power by his party, the National Socialist German Workers Party, Jewish life in Laupheim began to change for the worse. During the previous decades, Jews had been influential and prominent members in all ways of life, not only in the economic life but also in the cultural sphere. Numerous non-Jews had been employed by Jewish-run businesses and by Jewish households. Jews had been participating in all spheres of public and commercial life. The local craftsmen had been able to rely on Jewish customers to sell their products to. Jews were members in several cultural, political and social societies. All these relations began to loosen or even abruptly break down after January 1933. On 1 April 1933, the nationwide Nazi boycott of Jewish businesses, organised by Julius Streicher, also took place in Laupheim. Members of the local SA positioned themselves in front of Jewish shops in order to intimidate potential customers and prevent them from entering. The windows of one shop were smashed. In the year following the Nazis' rise to power, in the course of so-called \"Gleichschaltung\", the Laupheim Jews were deprived of membership of all non-Jewish organisations, be it political or cultural. On 6 November 1935, a non-local party group leader of the NSDAP took photographs of customers entering a shoe shop, which happened to be owned by a Jew. This caused such a commotion that the police had to be called in to disperse the crowd, which was shouting abuse at entering customers by calling them \"Volksverräter \" (people's traitors) and \"Judenknecht\" (Jews' servant). The propaganda of the ruling party had its effects in that the turnover of Jewish businesses decreased dramatically; one shop's revenue declined even by 80 percent. Many customers went for their purchases to Ulm and Biberach instead. The Nuremberg Laws of 1935, reduced the Jews in Germany to the status of second class citizens and prohibited the Jews to employ female Aryans under the age of 45. \nOn 8 April 1938, the Jewish cattle traders were allocated a separate part on the weekly cattle market and as of 1 January 1939 the licences for Jewish cattle trader were permanently revoked. From June onwards, all Jewish businesses had to be visibly marked. In July, Jewish physicians were struck off the medical register. In September, the permission of Jewish members of the legal profession to practice law was cancelled. There were further restrictions and harassment in the same year such as the adding of \"Sara\" and \"Israel\" respectively to non-Jewish first names, the confiscating and re-issuing of passports after a large \"J\" was added. However, many Jews clung to the businesses their ancestors had established and hoped that by keeping a low profile they could weather the storm. A record from July 1938, shows that there still existed 45 businesses run by Jews in Laupheim.\n\nThe assassination of Ernst vom Rath, Third Secretary of the German Embassy in Paris, by Herschel Grynszpan served as a pretext for a nationwide pogrom against Jews throughout Germany and Austria on the night of 9–10 November 1938, colloquially known as Kristallnacht. In Laupheim, Jewish shops were vandalised and the synagogue was burnt to the ground. The fire-brigade was prevented by locals from extinguishing the fire. A number of Jewish inhabitants were arrested and transported to the town hall. From there, they were marched to the burning synagogue, escorted by members of the Nazi-party, where they had to listen to a diatribe by a SA-leader, after which they were forced to carry out physical exercises in front of the burning building during which several of them were physically assaulted and injured. Afterwards, some of them were released, whereas the more prominent Jews were transported to the concentration camp Dachau where 16 of them had been released by February 1939.\n\nThe main perpetrators, were never brought to justice as they were either killed during the war or missing in action. 16 locals, however, were tried in 1948. All of them claimed that they were acting under orders. Four of them were acquitted whereas the twelve others were sentenced to prison terms ranging between two months and one year for crimes against humanity and being accessory to arson.\n\nA few days after the pogrom of 9–10 November 1938, a decree for the expropriation of Jewish businesses was implemented. Following this, all Jewish businesses had to be Aryanised. In Laupheim this meant that some Jewish shops were bought by one or some of the former employees at a rate considerably lower than the current market price. However, most of these businesses did not manage to survive for long as they lacked sufficient capital and expertise to run an enterprise, especially since there was no possibility to export goods.\n\nAs a result of the accelerated discrimination of Jews, emigration from Laupheim increased to 32 in 1939. In 1940, only 14 persons managed to escape the oppression and in 1941 a meagre 4 Jews from Laupheim managed to leave the country. Those who remained were, after having been driven out of business, systematically deprived of their other properties, evicted and allocated alternative accommodation. Some were moved into the former Rabbi's office building, now turned into a Jewish retirement home, where living conditions were very crammed. Others were sent to live in the \"Wendelinsgrube\", a designated settlement area in a gravel pit just outside the then built-up area of Laupheim, where since 1927 small houses had been erected to provide accommodation for the unemployed and homeless. By 1939 these houses consisted of wooden shacks without running water or electricity. The former residents of the \"Wendelinsgrube\" moved into the forcibly abandoned Jewish properties. On 28 November 1941, the first transport of Laupheim Jews left, in the first instance to Stuttgart, and then onwards to Riga. The second wave of deportations took place on 25 March 1942, when a number of Laupheim Jews were transported to the General Government, Poland. The final deportation took place on 19 August 1942, when the remaining 43 Jews of Laupheim, amongst whom were all the remaining inhabitants of the \"Wendelinsgrube\", were transported to the east to the concentration camp Theresienstadt. This date marks the end of more than 200 years of Jewish history in Laupheim since none of the emigrants or surviving deportees returned to live in Laupheim.\n\nThe table below shows the development of the Jewish population of Laupheim and also shows these numbers in relation to the total number of inhabitants of Laupheim.\n\nOf the 249 Jews registered in Laupheim in 1933, 126 managed to save their lives by fleeing Germany and emigrating to various foreign destinations.\n\nA complete list of all the Laupheim rabbis does not exist. The first rabbi is mentioned in 1730 but there is a gap in the records until 1760.\n\nFollowing the retirement of Leopold Treitel, the Laupheim rabbinate ceased to exist on 1 April 1923.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50514938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50514938", "title": "International Book Year", "text": "International Book Year\n\n1972 was proclaimed International Book Year by the United Nations and made effective by UNESCO.\n\nThe announcement was officially established in 1970, during the General Assembly of UNESCO. The cause of the proclamation is to increase access to books. The logo of the event was celebrated by the issuance of postage stamps by several countries\n"}
{"id": "51884972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51884972", "title": "Jaburara", "text": "Jaburara\n\nThe Jaburara ('Northerners') were an Indigenous Australian people who once lived about the Pilbara region of Western Australia and the Dampier Archipelago. The traditional tribe is virtually extinct, though some people of Jaburara descent are still active.\n\nThe Jaburara (Yaburarra) are thought to have spoken a language similar to Ngarluma, affiliated with the Ngayarda languages.\n\nThe Jaburara owned some of territory from around Dampier, Burrup, Nichol Bay and the peninsula northwards to the Dolphin and Legendre islands.\n\nDuring one of Phillip Parker King's voyages on to survey the Australian coast, an attempt was made to communicate in February 1817 with members of the tribe, three of whom had been sighted off-shore floating on a log in the vicinity of present-day Karratha (Good Country). The intermediary used was the ship's interpreter Bungaree, who, speaking the Broken Bay Dharug language could not understand them, but managed to calm their anxieties by undressing and showing he wore ritual scars.\n\nThe Jaburara, together with other local tribes such as the Ngarluma and Mardu-Dunera fought against the colonization of their lands by white settlers. According to an American whaler at the time, the law that accompanied settlement in their region could be summed up as 'a word and a blow: the blow, which is generally fatal, coming first'. In 1868, near the present-day township of Roebourne, in an area known in the local language as Murujuga (hip bone sticking out), two policemen and a native tracker had been killed. The suspects, three Jaburara men, were duly caught and sentenced to imprisonment. Two parties, made up of north coast pearlers and settler pastoralists had been given permission by the district authority to apply lethal force 'with discretion and judgement', and they attacked Jaburara encampments in a pincer movement. In what is now known as the Flying Foam massacre it has been estimated that up to 60 Jaburara were killed. In one camp alone, some 15 were killed. Following the La Grange massacre, this episode constitutes the second known example of the use of massacre to forcibly remove an indigenous north Western population. One small 'family' was recorded in the first half of the 20th century as still surviving but the massacre effectively cut off the tribe's connections to the islands.\n\nThe Jaburara heritage is attested by rock quarries, extensive archaic petroglyphs, grindstones used by native women to make flour from native seeds, nomadic camps, and middens to be found along the Jaburara Heritage Trail, which winds through an area containing some of the most extensive remains of ancient Aboriginal rock art, some dating back 25,000 years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2787442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2787442", "title": "Jim Bennett (historian)", "text": "Jim Bennett (historian)\n\nJames Arthur Bennett (born 1947) is a retired museum curator and historian of science.\n\nJim Bennett was Director of the Museum of the History of Science at Oxford University. He was appointed on 1 October 1994, on the retirement of the previous director, Francis Maddison, and retired on 30 September 2012. He is also a fellow of the Faculty of History and Linacre College. In 2010, the University of Oxford gave him the title Professor of the History of Science. Previously he was a fellow and senior tutor of Churchill College and curator of the Whipple Museum of the History of Science, both part of Cambridge University.\n\nBennett's interests lie in the history of practical mathematics from the 16th century to the 18th century, scientific instruments and astronomy. His work in Cambridge included hands-on use of scientific and navigational instruments, using the Whipple collection to teach undergraduates how instruments worked, and gaining insight into the difficulties faced by the historical teachers of those instruments.\n\nJim Bennett has been President of the British Society for the History of Science and President of the Scientific Instrument Commission of the International Union of History and Philosophy of Science. He has also appeared in television documentaries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20971125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20971125", "title": "Johann Friedrich von Schulte", "text": "Johann Friedrich von Schulte\n\nJohann Friedrich von Schulte (April 23, 1827 – December 19, 1914) was a German legal historian and professor of canon law who was born in Winterberg, Westphalia. He was a leading authority on Catholic canon law.\n\nIn 1854 he became a lecturer at the University of Bonn, and during the following year was appointed professor of German legal history and canon law at the University of Prague. In 1873 he returned to Bonn, where he was a professor of canon law until 1906. In 1881-82 he was rector at the university.\n\nSchulte opposed the First Vatican Council, and was architect of the basic templates regarding church law for organization of the German Old Catholic Church. He was also author of the \"Synodal- und Gemeindeordnung\" (Synodal and Municipal Order) of 1874, the fundamental law of the Old Catholic Church in Germany. From 1871 to 1890 he was president of the Old Catholic Congress.\n\nFrom 1874 to 1879 he was a member of the German Reichstag (National Liberal Party). He died in Obermais near Meran on December 19, 1914, at the age of 87.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49926173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49926173", "title": "John Marenbon", "text": "John Marenbon\n\nJohn Alexander Marenbon, FBA (born 26 August 1955) is a British philosopher and Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. His principal area of specialization is medieval philosophy.\n\nHe obtained his BA, MA, PhD, and DLitt from the University of Cambridge. Since 1978 he has been a Fellow of Trinity College, and a Senior Research Fellow there since 2005. In 2010 he became an Honorary Professor of Medieval Philosophy at Cambridge, delivering an inaugural lecture entitled 'When was medieval philosophy?'. He has also taught at Paris-Sorbonne University, been a visiting fellow at both the Centre for Medieval Studies and the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies at the University of Toronto, and held a visiting appointment at Peking University.\n\nHe was elected a Fellow of the British Academy in 2009.\n\nAuthored books\n\n"}
{"id": "2040158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2040158", "title": "John Robert Gregg", "text": "John Robert Gregg\n\nJohn Robert Gregg (b. 17 June 1867, Shantonagh, Monaghan, Ireland – d. 23 February 1948, New York City, New York) was an educator, publisher, humanitarian, and the inventor of the eponymous shorthand system Gregg Shorthand.\n\nJohn Robert Gregg was born in Shantonagh, Ireland, as the youngest child of Robert and Margaret Gregg, where they remained until 1872, when they moved to Rockcorry, County Monaghan. Robert Gregg, who was of Scottish ancestry, was station-master at the Bushford railway station in Rockcorry. He and his wife raised their children as strict Presbyterians, and sent their children to the village school in Rockcorry, which John Robert Gregg joined in 1872. On his second day of class, John Robert was caught whispering to a schoolmate, which prompted the schoolmaster to hit the two children's heads together. This incident profoundly damaged Gregg's hearing for the rest of his life, rendering him unable to participate fully in school, unable to understand his teacher. This ultimately led to John Robert unnecessarily being perceived as dull or mentally challenged by his peers, teachers, and family.\n\nIn 1877, one of Robert Gregg's friends, a journalist named Annesley, visited the village for a weekend. He was versed in Pitman Shorthand, and took verbatim notes of the sermon at the village church, causing the preacher to sweat and studder, out of fear that his sermon, which he had plagiarized from a famous preacher, would be made public through Annesley's notes. That day, Robert Gregg saw the shorthand skill as a powerful asset, so he made it mandatory for his children to learn Pitman shorthand, with the exception of John, who was considered by his family too \"simple\" to learn it. None of the children succeeded in fully learning the system. On his own, John Robert learned a different shorthand system, that of Samuel Taylor, published in a small book by Odell. He taught himself the system fully, since he did not require the ability to hear in order to learn from the book.\n\nDue to hardships on the family, Gregg had to leave school before the age of 13 in order to support his family's income. He worked in a law office, earning five shillings a week.\n\nGregg said he initially set out to improve the English adaptation by John Matthew Sloan of the French Prévost Duployé Shorthand, while working with one of Sloan's sales agents, Thomas Malone. Malone published a system called \"Script Phonography\", of which Gregg asserted a share in authorship was owed to him. Angered by Malone, Gregg resigned from working with him and, encouraged by his older brother Samuel, published and copyrighted his own system of shorthand in 1888. It was put forth in a brochure entitled \"Light-Line Phonography: The Phonetic Handwriting\" which he published in Liverpool, England.\n\nIn 1893, he emigrated to the United States. That year he published \"Gregg Shorthand\". with great success. Gregg settled in Chicago where he wrote many books for the Gregg Publishing Company on shorthand and business practices.\n\n"}
{"id": "11515498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11515498", "title": "Khalifah ibn Khayyat", "text": "Khalifah ibn Khayyat\n\nAbū 'Amr Khalifa ibn Khayyat al Laythī al 'Usfurī (born : 160/161 AH/777 AD– died 239/240 AH/854 AD) was an Arab historian.\n\nHis family were natives of Basra in Iraq. His grandfather was a noted muhaddith or traditionalist, and Khalifa became renowned for this also. Among the great Islamic scholars who were his pupils were Bukhari and Ahmad ibn Hanbal.\n\nHe is known to have written at least four works, of which two have survived. These are the \"Tabaqat\" (biographies) and \"Tarikh\" (history). The latter is valuable as being one of three of the earliest Arabic histories, but the full text was not known until an 11th-century copy was found in 1966, in the Nassiriyya Zawiya in Tamegroute, where the local dry climate helped preserving it, and was published in 1967.\n\n"}
{"id": "1193609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1193609", "title": "Kielce pogrom", "text": "Kielce pogrom\n\nThe Kielce Pogrom was an outbreak of violence toward the Jewish community centre's gathering of refugees in the city of Kielce, Poland on 4 July 1946 by Polish soldiers, police officers, and civilians during which 42 Jews were killed and more than 40 were wounded. Polish courts later sentenced nine of the attackers to death in connection with the crimes.\n\nSome sources claim the massacre was instigated by the Soviet-backed Communist security corps, for propaganda purposes, attempting to discredit Poland's anti-Communist stance and to maintain totalitarian control over the country. As the top-secret case files were destroyed, the academic inquiry is ongoing with regard to possible secret coordination with the NKVD by the Moscow-Communist-controlled 'Polish' authorities.\n\nAs the deadliest pogrom against Polish Jews after the Second World War, the incident was a significant point in the post-war history of Jews in Poland. It took place only a year after the end of the Second World War and the Holocaust, shocking Jews in Poland, Poles, and the international community. It has been recognized as a catalyst for the flight from Poland of most remaining Polish Jews who had survived the Holocaust.\n\nDuring the German occupation of Poland, Kielce was completely ethnically cleansed by the Nazis of its pre-war Jewish community. By the summer of 1946, some 200 Jews, many of them former residents of Kielce, had returned from the Nazi concentration camps, the Soviet Union, and other places of refuge to live there. About 150-160 of them were quartered in a single building administered by the Jewish Committee of Kielce Voivodeship at Planty, a small street in the centre of the town.\n\nOn 1 July 1946, an eight-year-old Polish boy, Henryk Błaszczyk, was reported missing by his father Walenty Błaszczyk. According to the father, upon his return two days later the boy claimed he had been kidnapped by an unknown man, allegedly a Jew or a gypsy. Two days later, the boy, his father and the neighbour went to a local Civic Militia station (communist state-controlled police force). While passing the 'Jewish house' at 7 Planty Street, Henryk pointed at a man nearby who, he said, had allegedly imprisoned him in the house's cellar. At the police station, Henryk repeated his story that he had been kidnapped and specified the Jews and their house as involved in his disappearance. A Civic Militia patrol of more than a dozen men was then dispatched on foot by the station commander Edmund Zagórski to search the house at 7 Planty Street for the place where Henryk had allegedly been kept.\n\nAlthough the kidnapping claim was quickly withdrawn,\nHenryk Błaszczyk remained publicly silent about the events until 1998, when, in an interview to a Polish journalist he admitted he was never kidnapped but was living with \"unknown family\" in nearby village and treated well. He perceived his disappearance as happening with his father's awareness and concerted by the communist security service. After returning home he was categorically commanded by his father not to discuss anything that happened and reaffirm only the story of \"Jewish abduction\" if ever asked. He was threatened to keep quiet long after 1946, which he did out of fear until the end of communist rule in Poland.\n\nCivic Militia publicised the rumours of the kidnapping and further announced that they were planning to search for the bodies of Polish children supposedly ritually murdered and kept in the house, resulting in the gathering of civilian spectators. A confrontation ensued between the militia forces and officers of the Ministry of Public Security of Poland (UBP), which had been called in on the suspicion that the incident was a Jewish \"provocation\" to stir up unrest.\n\nDuring the morning, the case came to the attention of other local state and military organs, including the Polish People's Army (LWP - communist controlled regular army), the Internal Security Corps (KBW, interior ministry paramilitary), and the Main Directorate of Information of the Polish Army (GZI WP, military intelligence and counterintelligence). About 100 soldiers and five officers were dispatched to the location at about 10 am. The soldiers were unfamiliar with the circumstances, but soon picked up rumors from the people in the street, who at this time commenced pelting the building with stones.\n\nThe Civic Militia and soldiers then forcibly broke into the building only to discover that it did not contain any abducted children as claimed. The inhabitants of the house, who had proper permits to bear arms for self defence, were ordered to surrender their weaponry and give up valuables. Someone (unclear who) started firing a weapon. Civic Militia and the KBW opened fire, killing and wounding a number of people in the building. In response, shots were fired from the Jewish side killing two or three Poles, including a Civic Militia officer. The head of the local Jewish Committee, Dr Seweryn Kahane, was fatally wounded by a GZI WP officer while telephoning the Kielce office of Public Security for help. A number of local Priests attempted to enter the building but were stopped by militia officers, who vowed to control the situation.\n\nFollowing the initial murders inside the building, numerous Jews were driven outdoor by soldiers and later attacked with stones and clubs by civilians who crowded surrounding streets. By noon, the arrival of a large group of estimated about 600 to 1,000 workers from Ludwików steel mill, led by activists of Poland's ruling Polish Workers' Party (PPR, communist party), opened the next stage of the pogrom. Approximately 20 Jews were viciously battered to death by the workers armed with iron rods and clubs. Some of the workers were members of the ORMO (volunteer reserve militia) and at least one possessed a handgun. Neither the military or security heads, including a Soviet army advisor, nor the local civic leaders, sought to prevent the aggression. A unit of Civic Militia cadets which also arrived at the scene did not intervene, but some of its members joined in the looting and violence which continued inside and outside the building.\n\nAmong the slain Jews, nine had been shot dead, two were killed with bayonets, and the rest beaten or stoned to death. The dead included women and children. The mob also killed a Jewish nurse (Estera Proszowska),whom the attackers had mistaken for a Polish female attempting to aid the Jews. Two Jewish people not residing at Planty Street dwelling were also murdered on this day in separate incidents. Regina Fisz, her 3-week old child, and a male companion were abducted at their home at 15 Leonarda Street by a group of 4 men led by Civic Militia corporal Stefan Mazur. They were robbed and driven out of the city, where Regina and her baby were shot while allegedly trying to escape, while her friend did manage to escape. \nThree non-Jewish Poles were among the dead. Two uniformed state servicemen were killed in gunfire exchange, most likely shot by Jews defending themselves. The cause of death of the third man remains unexplained.\n\nThe pogrom ended at roughly 3:00 p.m. with the arrival of new security units from a nearby Public Security Academy, advanced by Colonel Stanisław Kupsza, and additional troops from Warsaw. After warning shots discharge, on the order of Major Kazimierz Konieczny, the new troops swiftly restored order, posted guards, and removed all the survivors as well as corpses from the dwelling and its proximity.\n\nThe violence, nevertheless, did not stop. Wounded Jews being taken to the local hospital were beaten and robbed by soldiers and injured were assaulted in the hospital by other patients. A civilian crowd approached one of the hospitals and demanded that the hurt Jews be handed over, but the hospital staff refused.\n\nTrains passing through Kielce's main railway station were scrutinized for Jews by civilians and SOK railway guards, resulting in at least two passengers being murdered. As many as 30 more may have been killed in this manner, as the train murders reportedly continued for several months after the pogrom. The large-scale disorder in Kielce ultimately ended some nine hours after it started. Polish born Julia Pirotte, a well-known French photojournalist with the French Resistance, photographed the pogrom's immediate aftermath.\n\nOne immediate reaction of the Communist government of Poland was to attempt to blame the pogrom on Polish nationalists, alleging that uniformed members of anticommunist formations backing the Polish government-in-exile were egging the mob on. At the funeral of the Jewish victims, the Minister of Public Security, Stanisław Radkiewicz, stated that the pogrom was \"a deed committed by the emissaries of the Polish government in the West and General Anders, with the approval of Home Army soldiers.\" Other early official statements at the time followed this line.\n\nAs the militiaman and army are known to have been involved in the pogrom from its inception, this has given rise to the idea that the pogrom was deliberately incited by the Communists to discredit the government in exile (possibly to distract attention from the rigged referendum which had taken place at the end of June 1946). When it became clear following trials that the nationalists could not be blamed, this line of propaganda was swiftly dropped by the government.\n\nAdditional investigation into the circumstances of the massacre was opposed by the communist regime until the era of Solidarity, when in December 1981 an article was published in the \"Solidarity\" newspaper \"Tygodnik Solidarność\". However, the return of repressive government meant that files could not be accessed for research until after the fall of Communism in 1989, by which time many eyewitnesses had died. It was then discovered that many of the documents relating to the pogrom had been allegedly destroyed by fire or deliberately by military authorities.\n\nFor these reasons, debate about the origins of the pogrom has remained controversial. Some claim it was a deliberate provocation by the communists to discredit the opposition. Some claim that it was a spontaneous antisemitic incident that was later exploited by the government. Others have accused the Roman Catholic Church hierarchy in Poland of passivity during the pogrom and its aftermath. The fact that a number of Jews held important positions in the Polish Communist party and security services also affected popular sentiment. Insufficient documented evidence significantly limits historical research.\n\nBetween 9 and 11 July 1946, twelve civilians (one of them apparently mentally challenged) were arrested by MBP officers as perpetrators of the pogrom. The accused were tried by the Supreme Military Court in a joint show trial. Nine were sentenced to death and executed the following day by firing squad on the orders of Polish Communist leader Bolesław Bierut. The remaining three received prison terms ranging from seven years to life.\n\nAside from Kielce Voivodeship's Civic Militia commandant, Major Wiktor Kuźnicki, who was sentenced to one year for \"failing to stop the crowd\" (he died in 1947), only one militia officer was punished — for the theft of shoes from a dead body. Mazur's explanation regarding his killing of the Fisz family was accepted. Meanwhile, the regional UBP chief, Colonel Władysław Sobczyński, and his men were cleared of any wrongdoing. The official reaction to the pogrom was described by Anita J. Prazmowska in \"Cold War History\", Vol. 2, No. 2:\n\nNine participants in the pogrom were sentenced to death; three others were given lengthy prison sentences. Militiaman, military men and functionaries of the UBP were tried separately and then unexpectedly all, with the exception of Wiktor Kuznicki, Commander of the MO, who was sentenced to one year in prison, were found not guilty of \"having taken no action to stop the crowd from committing crimes.\" Clearly, during the period when the first investigations were launched and the trial, a most likely politically motivated decision had been made not to proceed with disciplinary action. This was in spite of very disturbing evidence that emerged during the pre-trial interviews. It is entirely feasible that instructions not to punish the MO and UBP commanders had been given because of the politically sensitive nature of the evidence. Evidence heard by the military prosecutor revealed major organisational and ideological weaknesses within these two security services.\n\nThe neighbour of the Błaszczyk family who had originally suggested to Henryk that he had been kidnapped by Jews was subsequently tried, but acquitted. Of the 12 persons put on trial, nine were condemned to death. According to author Krzysztof Kąkolewski (\"Umarły cmentarz\"), the twelve had been picked up from the watching crowd by the secret police.\n\nThe ruthlessness of the murders put an end to the expectation of many Jews that they would be able to resettle in Poland after the end of the Nazi German occupation and precipitated a mass exodus of Polish Jewry. Bożena Szaynok, a historian at Wrocław University estimated that from July 1945 until June 1946 about fifty thousand Jews crossed the Polish border illegally. In July 1946, almost twenty thousand decided to start a new life abroad. Polish Minister Marian Spychalski, motivated by political and humanitarian reasons, signed a decree allowing Jews to leave officially without visas or exit permits, and the Jewish emigration from Poland increased dramatically. In August 1946 the number of emigrants increased to thirty thousand. In September 1946, twelve thousand Jews left Poland.\n\nBy the spring of 1947, wrote Bernhard and Szlajfer, the number of Jews in Poland – in large part arriving from the Soviet Union – declined from 240,000 to 90,000 due to mass migration. Britain demanded that Poland halt the Jewish exodus, but their pressure was largely unsuccessful. The flight (berihah) of Jews was motivated by the post-Holocaust absence of Jewish life in Poland as well as the raging civil war against the Communist takeover, in as much as the efforts of strong Polish-Jewish lobby at the Jewish Agency working towards the higher standard of living and special privileges for the immigrants from Poland. Yitzhak Raphael, director of the Immigration Department – who lobbied on behalf of Polish refugees – insisted on their preferential treatment in Israel, wrote Devorah Hakohen.\n\nSix months before the Kielce pogrom, during the celebration of Hanukkah, a hand grenade had been thrown into the headquarters of the local Jewish community. The Jewish Community Council had approached the Bishop of Kielce, Czesław Kaczmarek, requesting that he admonish the Polish people to refrain from attacking the Jews. The bishop refused, replying that \"as long as the Jews concentrated upon their private business Poland was interested in them, but at the point when Jews began to interfere in Polish politics and public life they insulted the Poles' national sensibilities\".\n\nSimilar remarks were delivered by the Bishop of Lublin, Stefan Wyszyński, when he was approached by a Jewish delegation. Wyszyński stated that the widespread hostility to Jews was provoked by Jewish backing of Communism (there was a widespread perception that Jews were supportive of Soviet-installed Communist administration in Poland; see \"Żydokomuna\"), which had also been the reason why \"the Germans murdered the Jewish nation\". Wyszyński also gave some credence to blood libel stories, commenting that the issue of the use of Christian blood was never fully clarified.\n\nThe controversial stance of the Polish Roman Catholic Church towards anti-Jewish violence was criticised by the American, British and Italian ambassadors to Poland. Reports of the Kielce pogrom caused a major sensation in the United States, leading the American ambassador to Poland to insist that the Cardinal August Hlond hold a press conference and explain the position of the church. In the conference held on 11 July 1946, Hlond condemned the violence, but attributed it not to racial causes but to rumours concerning the killing of Polish children by Jews. Hlond put the blame for the deterioration in Polish-Jewish relations on collaboration with the Soviet-backed communist occupiers, Jews \"occupying leading positions in Poland in state life\". This position was echoed by Polish rural clergy and Cardinal Sapieha, who reportedly stated that the Jews had brought it upon themselves.\n\nSome sources claim the massacre was instigated by the Soviet-backed Communist security corps, for propaganda purposes, attempting to discredit Poland's anti-Communist stance and to maintain totalitarian control over the country. As the top-secret case files were destroyed, the academic inquiry is ongoing with regard to possible secret coordination with the NKVD by the Moscow-Communist-controlled 'Polish' authorities. There has been considerable controversy over possible outside incitement. The idea that the event was secretly provoked or inspired by Soviet intelligence services has been put forward, and a number of similar scenarios were offered. None has yet been proven by the post-communist investigation, due to the paper trail (see below) having been destroyed by Communist-controlled intelligence agents, even though an NKVD officer was present at the riots. In 2001–04 the Institute of National Remembrance (IPN) conducted an investigation into the pogrom and closed the case stating (without entering into details) that the events of 4 July 1946 were a result of a mishap. Another communiqué published by the IPN two years later confirmed only that four decades after the fact the remaining paper trail was still being destroyed by the Soviet controlled Polish security police under Gen. Czesław Kiszczak.\n\nAleksander Wat, Tadeusz Piotrowski, logician Abel Kainer (Stanisław Krajewski), and Jan Śledzianowski, allege that the events were part of a much wider action organised by Soviet intelligence in countries controlled by the Soviet Union (a very similar pogrom took place in Hungary), and that Soviet-dominated agencies like the UBP were used in the preparation of the Kielce pogrom. Polish Communist and Soviet commanders were in the locality. The most notable was the Jewish expert Nathan Spychaj (a.k.a. Natan Shpilevoi or Szpilevoy), brother of a senior official in Stalin's puppet Polish regime, as well as Mikhail Diomin, a high-ranking GRU officer for special operations. It was also uncommon that numerous troops from security formations were present at the place and did not prevent the \"mob\" from gathering, at a time when even a gathering of five people was considered suspicious and immediately controlled.\n\nMichael Checinski, a former Polish Military Counter-Intelligence officer, emigrated to United States after the 1968 Polish political crisis, where he published his book in which he asserts that the events of Kielce pogrom were a well planned action of the Soviet intelligence in Poland, with the main role in planning and controlling the events being played by Diomin, and with the murders carried out by some Poles, including Polish policemen and military officers.\n\nOn 19 July 1946, former Chief Military Prosecutor Henryk Holder wrote in the letter to the deputy chief of LWP General Marian Spychalski that \"we know that the pogrom wasn't only a fault of Police and Army guarding the people in and around the city of Kielce but also members of the official government who took a role in it.\"\n\nOne line of argument that implies external inspiration goes as follows: The 1946 referendum showed that the communists had little support and only vote rigging won them a majority in the carefully controlled poll - hence, it has been alleged that the UBP organised the pogrom to distract the Western world media's attention from the fabricated referendum. Another argument for the incident's use as distraction was the upcoming ruling on the Katyn massacre in the Nuremberg trials, which the communists tried to turn international attention away from, placing the Poles in an unfavourable spotlight (the pogrom happened on 4 July, the same day the Katyn case started in Nuremberg, after the Soviet prosecutors falsely accused the Nazis of the massacre which was actually committed by the Soviets themselves in 1940).\n\nJan T. Gross in his book, \"\", offers a somewhat different and more nuanced interpretation. Gross, while agreeing that the crime was initiated not by a mob, but by the communist police, and that it involved people from every walk of life except the highest level of government officials in the city, wrote the indifference of the majority of Poles to the Jewish Holocaust combined with demands for the return of Jewish property confiscated during the Second World War created a climate of violence against Jews.\n\nA monument by New York City-based artist Jack Sal entitled \"White/Wash II\" commemorating the victims was dedicated on 4 July 2006, in Kielce, on the 60th anniversary of the pogrom. At the dedication ceremony, a statement from the President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński condemned the events as a \"crime and a great shame for the Poles and tragedy for the Polish Jews\". The presidential statement asserted that in today's democratic Poland there is \"no room for antisemitism\" and brushed off any generalizations of the antisemitic image of the Polish nation as a stereotype.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5797780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5797780", "title": "Kishtwar", "text": "Kishtwar\n\nKishtwar is a municipality in the Kishtwar District of the Jammu region in the Indian state of Jammu and Kashmir.\n\nKishtwar is first referred to in the Rajatarangini by the ancient name Kashthavata. during the reign of Raja Kalsa of Kashmir (1063–1089), when \"Uttamaraja\", the ruler of Kashthavata visited the court of the Kashmir King in company with several other hill chiefs to pay their respects to the Raja.\n\nKishtwar merged with the State of Jammu and Kashmir in 1821, A.D. With the passage of time Kishtwar became a Tehsil of the Udhampur district and remained so until 1948, when it became part of the newly created District Doda in the wake of first re-organization of the state during the post-independence period.\n\nThe economy of area is not regularized with no visible investment from government. The area being rural in nature has agriculture based economy. The Padder area produces world class Pine nuts called chilgoza which is a delicacy and costly dry fruit. In Marwah, Chatroo, Mughalmaidan and Bounjwah Tehsils wall nut production of best quality walnuts in thousands of tons is recorded but due to absence of any fruit Mandi the exact figures are not available. Besides walnut, Marwah Tehsil produces thousands of tons of kidney beans which is the cash crop of the area. Villages of Pochhal, Matta and Hidyal produce saffron of good quality. The rural households are also abundantly gifted by nature through cash crops of eatable mushrooms and morchella called \"guchhi\" in local language. Some families have been reported to earn more than Rs1,00,000 per year by just selling the dried morchella in local markets. The eatable ferns are also a natural cash crop of the area. The apples are produced in some areas however the quality of Kishtwar apple is not of world class. Due to dry nature of the climate the village peasant population usually grow wheat and barley in Rabi season and kidney bean and maize in Kharif season.\nThe rivers are rich source of electricity and the site of the hydroelectric power projects of Dul Hasti 390 MW, Ratle Hydroelectric Project 850 MW, Kirthai 1400 MW, Pakal Dool 1,000 MW, Lower Kalnai 48 MW and Chaudhary 15MW, Keeru HEPP and Kwar HEPP with the highest per capita wattage production in world for such a small area.These projects have been the largest source of employment and have immensely contributed to the prosperity of the area. Kishtwar has the distinction of producing world class blue Diamond Sapphire and its Kashmir sapphire was mined at Padder valley. The area is although rich in natural mineral resources but poor infrastructure has posed difficulty in its extraction. Mineral gypsum is mined at Village Trigam. The river sand of Chenab is of best quality and used extensively for construction purpose.\n\n India census Kishtwar had a population of 14,865. Males constitute 63% of the population and females 37%. Kishtwar has an average literacy rate of 78%, higher than the Indian national average: male literacy is 82%, and female literacy is 42%. In Kishtwar, 11% of the population is under six years of age. The main language spoken here by the Muslims is <nowiki>Kashmiri</nowiki> and local Hindus of Kishtwar speak a local dialect of Kashmiri language called <nowiki>Kashtwari</nowiki>. The dominant religion in Kishtwar is Islam with 69.21% population Muslims following Hinduism with second largest religion with 29.59% as Hindus.\n\nThe Chenab River flows through the district and is joined by tributaries such as Marvisudar ruver of Mawah, Fambar Nallah, Chingam Nallah which meet at the confluence near Bhandarkoot. The rivers have cut steep gorges and wide plains on the way. Warwan valley and Marwah valleys are unique in being located in the way of river Marusudhar. The area is also known for its high mountain passes which have been the mountaineer's delight since British era. Many illustrations are found in the travelogue written by British writers including Otto Rothfield's \"With pen and Rifle in Kashmir\".\nThe Kishtwar Anantnag National Highway passes through the Synthan Pass and Daksum Nowpachi Road passes through the Margan top a 13 km long and 5100-metre-high pass. The Steep Brahma mountain peak is situated at Dachhan which is documented by British mountaineers. The Warwan Valley has been rated among India's top ten trekking destination with a wide range of landscape.\nSaffron of purest quality is produced in the iron rich soil at Pochhal, Matta, Lachdayaram and Hidyal.\nKishtwar National Park, in the northeast region of the district, has a large number of peaks and glaciers. The town has a small Air Landing ground under the control and management of Indian Army which caters to civil and military Helicopters. The 33 hectare Chowgan is the largest natural ground located in the center of city and is used as a venue of recreation and religious and political gatherings. Mini Secretariat housing all the offices of Kishtwar District Administration besides world class Conference Hall is located 3 km from the main bus stand in Kuleed area. Kishtwar is endowed with dense forests of deodar, pine and fir. There are high altitude mountains ranging between 20,000 feet to 21,000 feet like Nun Kun, Burmah and Barnag.\n"}
{"id": "29268015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29268015", "title": "Kiyoshi Inoue", "text": "Kiyoshi Inoue\n\nInoue was born in Kochi Prefecture. He studied at the University of Tokyo; and his doctoral thesis was \"The History of Modern Reform.\" He was awarded his Ph.D. in 1936.\n\nIn 1954, Inoue joined the faculty of the University of Kyoto as an associate professor at the Institute of Humanities. In 1961, he was named a professor. He continued as a member of the Kyoto faculty until his retirement in 1977.\n\nIn his early career, Inoue established himself as a Marxist historian, publishing works on such subjects as the Japanese imperial system and buraku.\n\nIn his later years, Inoue worked to expand the number of academic exchanges between Japan and China, and led a movement seeking solidarity with Asian nations. He also published works on the subject of the Diaoyu/Senkaku Islands dispute that sided with the Chinese claim.\n\nInoue received an honorary degree from the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in 1997.\n\nInoue had published a book criticizing the imperial system; and he continued to be critical of the Japanese emperor throughout his life. In a range of topics, his work was often viewed as controversial due to his active protests and lawsuits against the Japanese government. During the Japanese students riots in 1969, Professor Inoue openly supported the students who were demanding the scrapping of the U.S.-Japan Security Treaty.\n\nInoue was also very critical of \"Japanese militarism\" in the Diaoyu/Senkaku Islands dispute with China, and had written a number of books on the subject.\n\nIn a statistical overview derived from writings by and about Kiyoshi Inoue, OCLC/WorldCat encompasses roughly 100+ works in 200+ publications in 6 languages and 1,000+ library holdings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "538810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538810", "title": "Leslie Orgel", "text": "Leslie Orgel\n\nLeslie Eleazer Orgel FRS (12 January 1927 – 27 October 2007) was a British chemist. He is known for his theories on the origin of life.\n\nBorn in London, England, Orgel received his Bachelor of Arts degree in chemistry with first class honours from the University of Oxford in 1948. In 1951 he was elected a Fellow of Magdalen College, Oxford and in 1953 was awarded his PhD. in chemistry.\n\nOrgel started his career as a theoretical inorganic chemist and continued his studies in this field at Oxford, the California Institute of Technology and the University of Chicago.\n\nTogether with Sydney Brenner, Jack Dunitz, Dorothy Hodgkin, and Beryl M. Oughton he was one of the first people in April 1953 to see the model of the structure of DNA, constructed by Francis Crick and James Watson, at the time he and the other scientists were working at Oxford University's Chemistry Department. According to the late Dr. Beryl Oughton, later Rimmer, they all travelled together in two cars once Dorothy Hodgkin announced to them that they were off to Cambridge to see the model of the structure of DNA. All were impressed by the new DNA model, especially Brenner who subsequently worked with Crick; Orgel himself also worked with Crick at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies.\n\nIn 1955 he joined the chemistry department at Cambridge University. There he did work in transition metal chemistry and ligand field theory, published several peer-reviewed journal articles and wrote a textbook entitled \"Transition Metal Chemistry: Ligand Field Theory\" (1960). He developed the Orgel diagram showing the energies of electronic terms in transition metal complexes.\n\nOrgel formulated his error catastrophe theory of ageing in 1963, which has since been experimentally refuted.\n\nIn 1964, Orgel was appointed Senior Fellow and Research Professor at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in La Jolla, California, where he directed the Chemical Evolution Laboratory. He was also an adjunct professor in the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry at the University of California, San Diego, and he was one of five principal investigators in the NASA-sponsored NSCORT program in exobiology. Orgel also participated in NASA's Viking Mars Lander Program as a member of the Molecular Analysis Team that designed the gas chromatography mass spectrometer instrument that robots took to the planet Mars.\n\nOrgel's lab came across an economical way to make cytarabine, a compound that is one of today's most commonly used anti-cancer agents.\n\nTogether with Stanley Miller, Orgel also suggested that peptide nucleic acids – rather than ribonucleic acids – constituted the first pre-biotic systems capable of self-replication on early Earth.\n\nHis name is popularly known because of Orgel's rules, credited to him, particularly Orgel's Second Rule: \"Evolution is cleverer than you are.\" \n\nIn his book \"The Origins of Life\", Orgel coined the concept of specified complexity, to describe the criterion by which living organisms are distinguished from non-living matter. He published over three hundred articles in his research areas.\n\nIn 1993, Orgel presented at the \"What is Life?\" Conference at Trinity College in Dublin, Ireland along with many other prominent scientists exploring origin of life research such as Manfred Eigen, John Maynard Smith and Stephen Jay Gould. Orgel's talk was on \"Molecular Structure and Disordered Crystals.\"\n\nOrgel died of pancreatic cancer on 27 October 2007 at the San Diego Hospice & Palliative Care in San Diego.\n\nOrgel proposed a novel solution to a problem with Juan Oro's proposed mechanism of nucleobase synthesis on the early Earth, which relied on the reaction of five molecules of hydrogen cyanide (HCN) to form adenine. The problem with this was that it would require much more concentrated hydrogen cyanide than evidence suggested was present.\n\nOrgel suggested that the hydrogen cyanide was frozen in solution. This would concentrate HCN molecules in the spaces in between the crystal lattice of ice, and also solved the problem of HCN being too volatile in a liquid water solution.\n\nFor nucleoside (nucleobase + ribose sugar) synthesis, Orgel suggested an almost opposite approach, heating a mixture of ribose and the purine nucleobases hypoxanthine, adenine, and guanine to dryness in the presence of magnesium ions. This reaction puts the glycosidic bond in the correct position in two ways: the nucleobase attaches to the correct carbon on ribose, and in the correct orientation (the beta anomer).\n\nHowever, the synthesis was later criticised because it only worked most with hypoxanthine, a nucleobase that is not relevant to current life on Earth, and because it was not specific for the ribose sugar and could instead be applied to other sugars.\n\nContinuing his work exploring the prebiotic synthesis of RNA, Orgel suggested a solution to the problem of condensing nucleotides to form nucleic acid polymers, an energy-demanding process. To counteract this energy barrier, he proposed a nucleotide with an imidazole ring attached to the phosphate group. The imidazole would be a good leaving group for the condensation of nucleotides.\n\nOrgel also theorised that one single strand of RNA could have been the template for the first life on Earth and that these imidazole-activated nucleotides could have used this DNA template strand to polymerise and replicate. However, in lab experiments, this only worked when the DNA template strands were rich in the nucleotide cytosine, and furthermore, there so far is no proposed prebiotic synthesis for how an imidazole-activated nucleotide could be formed on the early Earth.\n\nThough he later downplayed the hypothesis, Orgel, along with Francis Crick, proposed a detailed panspermia scenario for the origin of life on Earth, going so far as to suggest that life on Earth was designed by an alien species and sent to Earth. They proposed a design for the spaceship that aliens could have used to seed life on Earth.\n\nIn the late 1960s, Orgel proposed that life was based on RNA before it was based on DNA or proteins. His theory included genes based on RNA and RNA enzymes. This view would be developed and shaped into the now widely-accepted RNA world hypothesis.\n\nAlmost thirty years later, Orgel wrote a lengthy review of the RNA World hypothesis. This review highlighted many proposed syntheses for RNA and its parts in abiotic conditions, noted the significance of the discovery of ribozymes (RNA molecules that function as enzymes just as Orgel had once predicted) and at the same time, demonstrated nucleic acid polymers with alternatives to ribose such as threose nucleic acid (TNA) and peptide nucleic acid (PNA).\n\nIn conclusion, Orgel wrote, \"One must recognize that, despite considerable progress, the problem of the origin of the RNA World is far from being solved.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16785510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16785510", "title": "Let Us Now Praise Famous Death Dwarves", "text": "Let Us Now Praise Famous Death Dwarves\n\nLet Us Now Praise Famous Death Dwarves (or how I slugged it out with Lou Reed and stayed awake) is an infamous interview with Lou Reed conducted by Lester Bangs and published in \"Creem\" magazine in 1975. It is now regarded as a classic document of music journalism. The title is a play on \"Let Us Now Praise Famous Men,\" the book by James Agee. The full interview was reprinted in the New Musical Express in November 2013, as a tribute to Lou Reed, who died the previous month.\n\nIn this Gonzo-style interview Lester Bangs attempts to demythologize rock-n-roll and its stars, by giving the arrogant behavior of rock superstars a more vulnerable, human context.\n\nAn extended introduction describes Bangs' complex feelings about the music of Lou Reed, admiring his songwriting genius, but intrigued by some of the anti-social aspects of Lou's more challenging albums, such as \"Berlin\" and \"Metal Machine Music,\" as well as Lou's sometimes hostile personality. \n\nAfter fortifying himself with research and drugs, Lester Bangs meets Lou Reed in a hotel room, where they trade barbed personal insults, and argue about the current music scene, amphetamine formulae, and the background music which Lou has selected (Herbie Hancock).\n\nIn a provocative gesture, Lester finally challenges Lou to remove his sunglasses:\n\n\"...Lou's sallow skin almost as whitish yellow as his hair, whole face and frame so transcendently emaciated he had indeed become insectival. His eyes were rusty, two copper coins lying in desert sands under the sun all day with telephone wires humming overhead, but he looked straight at me. Maybe through me...\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46342890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46342890", "title": "Louis-Joseph Delaporte", "text": "Louis-Joseph Delaporte\n\nLouis-Joseph Delaporte, often known as Louis Delaporte (22 October 1874 - February 1944) was a French archaeologist and Hittitologist.\n\nLouis Delaporte was born in Saint-Hilaire-du-Harcouët. He died in Wołów prison in Silesia in February 1944.\n\n"}
{"id": "31898777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31898777", "title": "Margaret A. Rykowski", "text": "Margaret A. Rykowski\n\nMargaret A. Rykowski is a Rear Admiral in the United States Navy Reserve and serves as Deputy Fleet Surgeon, United States Fleet Forces Command and Deputy Director, United States Navy Nurse Corps, Reserve Component.\n\nA native of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Rykowski is a graduated of the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee. As a civilian, she works as a nursing director at San Francisco General Hospital.\n\nRykowski joined the Navy Reserve in 1987. She would be called to active duty for the Gulf War and was assigned to Naval Hospital Oakland. Later, she would transfer to Naval Hospital Oakland following her release from active duty.\n\nIn 2003, she was recalled to active duty for the War in Afghanistan and was stationed in Bremerton, Washington. She was later mobilized to the Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany. After her return, she was assigned to the United States Third Fleet.\n\nAwards she has received include the Meritorious Service Medal, the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal with three award stars and the Army Commendation Medal.\n"}
{"id": "44659582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44659582", "title": "Mike Schmeitzner", "text": "Mike Schmeitzner\n\nMike Schmeitzner (born Dresden 29 July 1968) is a German historian. His focus is on twentieth century German history.\n\nSchmeitzner was born in the southern part of what was then the German Democratic Republic. His 1968 birth year meant that his university-level education straddled the events that led to German reunification in the second half of 1990. He successfully completed his schooling in Dresden at the in 1987 and then, in 1987/88, worked for VEB Robotron, a large electronics manufacturing operation. He then returned to academe, studying History, German Language, Culture and Linguistics and Education, initially at and then at the Dresden University of Technology.\n\nHis work has focused on the History of the \"Weimar Republic\", of the Third Reich, of the Soviet occupation zone (SBZ / \"Sowjetische Besatzungszone\") in what had previously been Germany, and on the formative years of the German Democratic Republic which grew out of it. He has also undertaken extensive historical research into nineteenth and twentieth century Parliamentary structures, Youth movements and left-wing Totalitarianism. He is a member of various academic bodies including the advisory board of the Saxony Memorials Foundation and of the Friedrich Ebert Memorial House. He is also a member of the Editorial board for the quarterly journal: \"Dresdner Hefte. Beiträge zur Kulturgeschichte\".\n\nMonographs\n\nCollaboratively\n\nEdited by...\n"}
{"id": "6541059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6541059", "title": "Mykola Markevych", "text": "Mykola Markevych\n\nMykola Andriyovych Markevych () (7 February 1804 – 21 June 1860) was a Ukrainian musician, composer, historian, ethnographer, and poet.\n\nMykola Markevych was born in Dunaiets, Ukraine on 7 February 1804. He studied at the Saint Petersburg Pedagogical Institute from 1817 to 1820 and studied piano and composition in Moscow. He served as an officer in the Russian army from 1820–24.\n\nMarkevych collected many historical materials on Ukraine's history and Ukrainian folk songs at his estate and around Ukraine. He wrote many works on Ukrainian folk customs and beliefs, as well as foods. His greatest work was the \"History of Little Russia (Ukraine)\" (Історії Малоросії), which was published in Moscow in 1842–3. In it, Markevych portrays Ukraine as \"ours\" (part of Imperial Russia), but not \"us\" (not Russian). He also wrote extensively on Ukrainian cossacks, most notably on Ivan Mazepa and Yakiv Barabash. His works influenced his friend and contemporary Taras Shevchenko.\n\nHe died in Turivka, Ukraine on 21 June 1860. Many of his works have not been published. His personal archive and diary are kept at the Institute of Russian Literature in Saint Petersburg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31769819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31769819", "title": "Pavel Žáček", "text": "Pavel Žáček\n\nPavel Žáček (born 18 May 1969) is a Czech academic and politician who served as the first Director of the Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes, the Czech government agency and research institute tasked with investigation of the crimes of the Communist regime of Czechoslovakia that was declared to be criminal in 1993. In 2017, he was elected to the Chamber of Deputies and serves as a Civic Democratic MP.\n\nHe holds an M.A. (1992) and a PhD (2001) in Mass Communication from Charles University of Prague. He worked for the Office for the Documentation and the Investigation of the Crimes of Communism from 1993, where he was appointed Deputy Director in 1998. From 1999 to 2006, he was Senior Researcher at the Institute of Contemporary History, Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic.\n\nHe was a member of the Czech Television Council 2001–2003. He is a founding signatory of the Prague Declaration on European Conscience and Communism. In 2010, he was succeeded as Director by Jiří Pernes. He served as adviser to Daniel Herman who was elected director of the Institute in August 2010. After a disputed Herman's removal in April 2013, Pavel Žáček was fired by the new director Pavla Foglová.\n"}
{"id": "472146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=472146", "title": "R. G. Collingwood", "text": "R. G. Collingwood\n\nRobin George Collingwood (; 1889–1943) was an English philosopher, historian and archaeologist. He is best known for his philosophical works including \"The Principles of Art\" (1938) and the posthumously published \"The Idea of History\" (1946).\n\nCollingwood was born 22 February 1889 in Cartmel, Grange-over-Sands, in Lancashire, the son of the artist and archaeologist W. G. Collingwood, who had acted as John Ruskin's private secretary in the final years of Ruskin's life. Collingwood's mother was also an artist and a talented pianist. He was educated at Rugby School, and at University College, Oxford, where he gained a First in Classical Moderations (Greek and Latin) in 1910 and a congratulatory First in Greats (Ancient History and Philosophy) in 1912. Prior to graduation he was elected a fellow of Pembroke College, Oxford.\n\nCollingwood was a fellow of Pembroke College, Oxford, for some 15 years until becoming the Waynflete Professor of Metaphysical Philosophy at Magdalen College, Oxford. He was taught by the historian and archaeologist F. J. Haverfield, at the time Camden Professor of Ancient History. Important influences on Collingwood were the Italian Idealists Benedetto Croce, Giovanni Gentile and Guido de Ruggiero, the last of whom was also a close friend. Other important influences were Hegel, Kant, Giambattista Vico, F. H. Bradley and J. A. Smith.\n\nAfter several years of increasingly debilitating strokes Collingwood died at Coniston, Lancashire, on 9 January 1943. He was a practising Anglican throughout his life.\n\nCollingwood is widely noted for \"The Idea of History\" (1946), which was collated from various sources soon after his death by a student, T. M. Knox. It came to be a major inspiration for philosophy of history in the English-speaking world and is extensively cited, leading to an ironic remark by commentator Louis Mink that Collingwood is coming to be \"the best known neglected thinker of our time\".\n\nCollingwood thought that history cannot be studied in the same way as natural science because the internal thought processes of historical persons cannot be perceived with the physical senses, and past historical events cannot be directly observed. He suggested that a historian must \"reconstruct\" history by using \"historical imagination\" to \"re-enact\" the thought processes of historical persons based on information and evidence from historical sources.\n\nCollingwood pointed out a fundamental difference between knowing things in the present (or in the natural sciences) and knowing history. To come to know things in the present or about things in the natural sciences, \"real\" things can be observed, as they are in existence or that have substance right now.\n\n\"The Principles of Art\" (1938) comprises Collingwood's most developed treatment of aesthetic questions. Collingwood held (following Croce) that works of art are essentially expressions of emotion. For Collingwood, an important social role for artists is to clarify and articulate emotions from their community.\n\nCollingwood developed a position later known as aesthetic expressivism, a thesis first developed by Benedetto Croce.\n\nIn politics Collingwood defended the ideals of what he called liberalism \"in its Continental sense\":\n\nThe essence of this conception is... the idea of a community as governing itself by fostering the free expression of all political opinions that take shape within it, and finding some means of reducing this multiplicity of opinions to a unity.\n\nIn his \"Autobiography\", Collingwood confessed that his politics had always been \"democratic\" and \"liberal\", and shared Guido de Ruggiero's opinion that socialism had rendered a great service to liberalism by pointing out the shortcomings of laissez-faire economics.\n\nCollingwood was not just a philosopher of history but also a practising historian and archaeologist. He was, during his time, a leading authority on Roman Britain: he spent his term time at Oxford teaching philosophy but devoted his long vacations to archaeology.\n\nHe began work along Hadrian's Wall. The family home was at Coniston in the Lake District and his father was a leading figure in the Cumberland and Westmorland Archaeological Society. Collingwood was drawn in on a number of excavations and put forward the theory that Hadrian's Wall was not so much a fighting platform but an elevated sentry walk. He also put forward the suggestion that Hadrian's defensive system also included a number of forts along the Cumberland coast.\n\nHe was very active in the 1930 Wall Pilgrimage for which he prepared the ninth edition of Bruce's Handbook.\n\nHis final and most controversial excavation in Cumbria was that of a circular ring ditch near Penrith known as King Arthur's Round Table (henge) in 1937. It appeared to be a Neolithic henge monument, and Collingwood's excavations, failing to find conclusive evidence of Neolithic activity, nevertheless found the base of two stone pillars, a possible cremation trench and some post holes. Sadly, his subsequent ill health prevented him undertaking a second season so the work was handed over to the German prehistorian Gerhard Bersu, who queried some of Collingwood's findings. However, recently, Grace Simpson, the daughter of the excavator F. G. Simpson, has queried Bersu's work and largely rehabilitated Collingwood as an excavator.\n\nHe also began what was to be the major work of his archaeological career, preparing a corpus of the \"Roman Inscriptions of Britain\", which involved travelling all over Britain to see the inscriptions and draw them; he eventually prepared drawings of nearly 900 inscriptions. It was finally published in 1965 by his student R.P. Wright.\n\nHe also published two major archaeological works. The first, somewhat surprisingly for a philosopher was \"The Archaeology of Roman Britain\", a handbook in sixteen chapters covering first the archaeological sites (fortresses, towns and temples and portable antiquities) inscriptions, coins, pottery and brooches. Mortimer Wheeler in a review, remarked that \"it seemed at first a trifle off beat that he should immerse himself in so much museum-like detail… but I felt sure that this was incidental to his primary mission to organise his own thinking\".\n\nHowever, his most important work was his contribution to the first volume of the Oxford History of England, \"Roman Britain and the English Settlements\", of which he wrote the major part, Nowell Myres adding the second smaller part on English settlements. The book was in many ways revolutionary for it set out to write the story of Roman Britain from an archaeological rather than a historical viewpoint, putting into practice his own belief in 'Question and Answer' archaeology.\n\nThe result was alluring and influential. However, as Ian Richmond wrote, 'The general reader may discover too late that it has one major defect. It does not sufficiently distinguish between objective and subjective and combines both in a subtle and apparently objective presentation'.\n\nThe most notorious passage is that on Romano-British art: \"The impression that constantly haunts the archaeologist, like a bad smell, is that of an ugliness that plagues the place like a London fog\".\n\nCollingwood’s most important contribution to British archaeology was his insistence on Question and Answer archaeology: excavations should not take place unless there is a question to be answered. It is a philosophy which, as Anthony Birley points out, has been incorporated by English Heritage into the conditions for Scheduled Monuments Consent. Still, it has always been surprising that the proponents of the \"new\" archaeology in the 1960s and the 70s have entirely ignored the work of Collingwood, the one major archaeologist who was also a major professional philosopher. He has been described as and early proponent of archaeological theory.\n\nOutside archaeology and philosophy, he also published the travel book \"The First Mate's Log of a Voyage to Greece\" (1940), an account of a yachting voyage in the Mediterranean, in the company of several of his students.\n\nArthur Ransome was a family friend, and learned to sail in their boat, subsequently teaching his sibling's children to sail. Ransome loosely based the Swallows in \"Swallows and Amazons series\" on his sibling's children.\n\n\n\n\nAll 'revised' editions comprise the original text plus a new introduction and extensive additional material.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23597414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23597414", "title": "Seduction (tort)", "text": "Seduction (tort)\n\nThe tort of seduction was a civil wrong or tort in common law legal systems, and still exists in some jurisdictions. \n\nAn unmarried woman could sue on the grounds of seduction to obtain damages from her seducer, if her consent to sex was based upon his misrepresentation.\n\nInitially, the tort of seduction was a remedy for a father's property interest in his daughter's chastity. However, the damages to which the father would be entitled were based on the father's loss of the working services of a daughter, much as a master could sue if a third-party caused injury to his servant that rendered the servant unable to work, because she was \"seduced and debauched\" and became pregnant as a result of nonmarital sexual activity. The tort of seduction was one of the most common civil actions toward the end of the 19th century, and fathers were often successful before juries. \n\nIn the 20th century, the action was criticised as maintaining \"property interests in humans\", and the tort was recast to recognize personal injury to the woman, rather than solely deprivation of a father's property right. Most jurisdictions granted the victim (the wronged woman) the right to sue in her own name. (Fathers could still sue as well, on the ground that they had a moral interest in their daughters' chastity). The suing woman was \"usually but not always a virgin\".\n\nHistorically, the seduced female could not bring a suit herself. Rather, it would be brought by her father, acting under the legal fiction that the parent-child relationship falls under the master-servant relationship. However, if the daughter was a contracted servant, a suit could not be brought by her father against her master.\n\nProperty and civil rights is a provincial power in Canada, so all torts can vary by province.\n\nAn Act to make the remedy for cases of seduction more effectual, and to tender the fathers of illegitimate children liable for their support, was passed in Upper Canada on March 4, 1837. Amending traditional common law, it allowed fathers to sue their daughters' masters for the tort of seduction. It also held biological fathers liable for children conceived out of wedlock.\n\nThe Seduction Act was repealed in 1978.\n\nThe 1934 John Brownlee sex scandal revolved around a seduction suit.\n\nAn 1852 statute in Prince Edward Island allowed for a seduced woman to sue for herself with this tort., although damages were capped at 100 pounds. Manitoba and the North West Territories enacted similar legislation around the turn of the 19th century.\n\nIn the United States, the tort of seduction has been abolished in \"most states\". Fears of fraudulent suits, combined with a turn away from the view of property interests in persons, led to the enactment of \"heart balm\" statutes, abolishing causes of action for seduction, breach of promise, alienation of affection, criminal conversation, etc. in most states in the 20th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "2183149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2183149", "title": "Stanisław Kętrzyński", "text": "Stanisław Kętrzyński\n\nStanisław Kętrzyński (; 10 September 1878 in Lwów, Austrian Empire – 26 May 1950 in Warsaw, Poland) was a Polish historian and diplomat.\n\nHe was the son of Wojciech Kętrzyński from Lötzen (Lec), East Prussia, an Austrian citizen with Kashubian and Masurian ancestors, who became a Polish scholar.\n\nDuring the Second World War Stanisław Kętrzyński was a prisoner in the German concentration camp Auschwitz.\n\nAmong his students were Stanisław Arnold, Aleksander Gieysztor, Jadwiga Karwasińska and Adam Wolff.\n\n"}
{"id": "48873487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48873487", "title": "Stephen Jelicich", "text": "Stephen Jelicich\n\nStephen Albert Jelicich (1 March 1923 – 19 December 2015) was a New Zealand architect and historian. \n\nBorn Stjepan Albert Jeličić on 1 March 1923 in Sućuraj, Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (present-day Republic of Croatia), the son of Victor and Srećka Jeličić, the family emigrated to New Zealand in 1927. Stephen Jelicich became a naturalised New Zealander in 1928. \n\nHe was educated at Sacred Heart College, and later studied at Auckland University College, where he graduated with a Bachelor of Architecture degree in 1949. Jelicich married Barbara Jean McLennan in 1958.\n\nIn 1949, Jelicich formed Brenner Associates in Auckland with fellow architects Desmond Mullen and Ron Grant and designer Milan Mrkusich. As well as architectural work, the firm engaged in integrated interior, exhibition, lighting and furniture design. In 1950 they established Auckland's first modern design store, specialising in imported and local furniture, ceramics, woodwork and glass.\n\nBrenner Associates was dissolved in about 1958, and Jelicich went into sole practice. \n\nAround 1960, Jelicich formed the Architects Planning Group, with the aim of influencing planning issues in Auckland. He entered into partnership in 1963 with Rodney Davies, Ivan Mercep, John Austin and Graham Smith to form what would become JASMaD (later Jasmax, one of the largest architectural practices in New Zealand).\n\nJelicich researched the history of Croatian immigrants to New Zealand and their descendants. His book, \"From distant villages: the lives and times of Croatian settlers in New Zealand, 1858–1959\", was published in 2008. He was also a contributor to the \"Dictionary of New Zealand Biography\".\n\nJelicich died in Auckland on 19 December 2015 at the age of 92.\n\nIn the 2003 New Year Honours, Jelicich was appointed an Officer of the New Zealand Order of Merit for services to architecture and the community. He was also a Fellow of the New Zealand Institute of Architects.\n"}
{"id": "3689805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3689805", "title": "Svetlana Pletnyova", "text": "Svetlana Pletnyova\n\nSvetlana Alexandrovna Pletneva (also called \"Pletnyeva\" and \"Pletnyova\" ) (April 1, 1926 in Vyatka- 20 November 2008 in Moscow) was a Russian and Soviet archaeologist and historian. Like Lev Gumilev, she was a student of Mikhail Artamonov, although she discarded many of the former's theories as mere speculations. She won the USSR State Prize in 1986\n\nPletneva is the author of numerous books on Eurasian nomads, particularly the Khazars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21416688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21416688", "title": "Tahir Albakaa", "text": "Tahir Albakaa\n\nTahir Albakaa (born 1950 in Takir, Iraq) is an Iraqi historian who received his Master's degree and Ph.D in Modern History from Baghdad University.\n\nAlbakaa worked at Al-Mustansiriya University from 1983 to 2003 and is the former President of the University. In June 2004 he was chosen as a Minister of Higher Education and Scientific Research for the Iraqi Interim Government. Albakaa was a member of the Iraqi National Assembly in 2005, and a member of the Iraqi Constitution Writing Committee.\n\nIn October 2005 he went to Harvard University as a visiting scholar, and then moved to Suffolk University in 2006.\n\nHe has published six books and sixty-five papers.\n\n"}
{"id": "10254318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10254318", "title": "Teymur Bayramalibeyov", "text": "Teymur Bayramalibeyov\n\nTeymur bey Bayramalibeyov () (22 August 1863, Yeddioymag – 2 September 1937, Baku) was an Azerbaijani historian, teacher, and journalist.\n\nTeymur bey Bayramalibeyov was born to a noble family in the village of Yeddioymag in the present-day Masally District of Azerbaijan but spent most of his life in Lankaran. His family descended from the Iranian Shahsevans who moved to the Caucasus in the 16th century. He received his primary education at a local madrasah where among other disciplines he learned Arabic and Persian languages. He continued his education at the two-year Russian-Tartar School of Lankaran and a newly opened Russian school in Tiflis (present-day Tbilisi, Georgia) where he was sponsored by philanthropists from the Baku Land Department. In 1879 he applied and was admitted to the Gori Pedagogical Seminary to receive his post-secondary education as a teacher.\n\nAfter graduating from the seminary Bayramalibeyov was hired to teach at one of Lankaran's Russian schools. At the same time, he worked as a Lankaran regional reporter for the Baku-based Russian-language newspaper \"Kaspi\". In 1903 he started an amateur theatre where local teachers played roles in various staged plays. This was the theatre where Huseyn Arablinski revealed his talent in 1905 before going on to become a renowned Azerbaijani actor. Teymur Bayramalibeyov was the author of numerous historical books and articles, such as \"History of the Talysh Khanate\", \"Lankaran in the Past\" and several works on the mythology, folklore and lifestyles of the Talysh people. In 1917 Bayramalibeyov helped his daughter Maryam Bayramalibeyova in establishing the Unas Russian-Muslim School for Girls in Lankaran and to become its first principal. In 1918, with the independence of the Azerbaijan Democratic Republic he became regional representative of the Musavat Party in Lankaran. He participated in the negotiations with the British occupation forces in Azerbaijan in 1919. After Azerbaijan's Sovietization in 1920 he moved to Baku, where he worked as a secondary school instructor.\n\n"}
{"id": "283766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=283766", "title": "Thule people", "text": "Thule people\n\nThe Thule ( or )\nor proto-Inuit were the ancestors of all modern Inuit. They developed in coastal Alaska by 1000 and expanded eastwards across Canada, reaching Greenland by the 13th century. In the process, they replaced people of the earlier Dorset culture that had previously inhabited the region. The appellation \"Thule\" originates from the location of Thule (relocated and renamed Qaanaaq in 1953) in northwest Greenland, facing Canada, where the archaeological remains of the people were first found at Comer's Midden. The links between the Thule and the Inuit are biological, cultural, and linguistic.\n\nEvidence supports the idea that the Thule (and also the Dorset, but to a lesser degree) were in contact with the Vikings, who had reached the shores of Canada in the 11th century. In Viking sources, these peoples are called the \"Skrælingjar\". Some Thule migrated southward, in the \"Second Expansion\" or \"Second Phase\". By the 13th or 14th century, the Thule had occupied an area currently inhabited by the Central Inuit, and by the 15th century, the Thule replaced the Dorset. Intensified contacts with Europeans began in the 18th century. Compounded by the already disruptive effects of the \"Little Ice Age\" (1650–1850), the Thule communities broke apart, and the people were henceforward known as the Eskimo, and later, Inuit.\n\nThe Thule Tradition lasted from about 200 B.C. to 1600 A.D. around the Bering Strait, the Thule people being the prehistoric ancestors of the Inuit who now live in Northern Labrador. Thule culture was mapped out by Therkel Mathiassen, following his participation as an archaeologist and cartographer of the Fifth Danish Expedition to Arctic America in 1921–1924. He excavated sites on Baffin Island and the northwestern Hudson Bay region, which he considered to be the remains of a highly developed Eskimo whaling culture that had originated in Alaska and moved to Arctic Canada approximately 1000 years ago. There are three stages of development leading up to Thule culture; they are Okvik/Old Bering Sea, Punuk, Birnirk, and then Thule culture. These groups of peoples have been referred to as \"Neo-Eskimo\" cultures, which are differentiated from the earlier Norton Tradition.\n\nThere are several stages of the Thule tradition: Old Bering Sea Stage, Punuk Stage, and Birnirk Stage. These stages represent variations of the Thule Tradition as it expanded over time. The Thule Tradition replaced the Dorset Tradition in the Eastern Arctic and introduced both kayaks and umiaks, or skin covered boats, into the archaeological record as well as developed new uses for iron and copper and demonstrated advanced harpoon technology and use of bowhead whales, the largest animal in the Arctic. and spread across the coasts of Labrador and Greenland. It is the most recent \"neo-Eskimo\" culture.\n\nThe Old Bering Seas (OBS) stage was first characterized by Diamond Jenness, on the basis of a collection of deeply patinated decorated ivory harpoon heads and other objects dug up by natives on the St. Lawrence and Diomede Islands. Jenness identified the Bering Sea culture as a highly developed Inuit culture of northeastern Asiatic origin and pre-Thule in age.\n\nA strong maritime adaptation is characteristic of the Thule, and the OBS stage, and then can be seen in the archaeological evidence. Both Kayaks and umiaks (large skinned boats) appear in the archaeological record for the first time. The toolkits of the people of the time are dominated by polished-slate rather than flaked-stone artifacts, including lanceolate knives, projectile heads, and the ulu transverse-bladed knife. The people also made a crude form of pottery and there was much use of bone and antlers to use as heads on harpoons, as well as to make darts, spears, snow goggles, blubber scrapers, needles, awls and mattocks, also walrus shoulder-blade snow shovels.\n\nThere are many important innovations that emerged that allowed hunting to be more efficient. Harpoon mounted ice picks were used for seal hunting, as well as ivory plugs and mouthpieces for inflating harpoon line floats, which enabled them to recover larger sea mammals when dispatched. These people relied heavily on seal and walrus for subsistence. It is easy to pick out OBS technology because of the artistic curvilinear dots, circles, and shorter lines that were used to decorate their tools.\n\nThe chronological relationship between the Okvik and Old Bering Seas cultures has been the subject of debate and remains largely undecided, based mainly on art styles. Some consider it to be a distinct culture pre-dating Old Bering Sea, but the close similarity and overlapping radiocarbon dates suggest Okvik and Old Bering Sea are best considered as roughly contemporaneous, with regional variants.\n\nThe Punuk stage is a development of Old Bering Sea stage, with distribution along the major Strait islands and along to shores of the Chukchi Peninsula. The Punuk culture was initially defined by Henry Collins in 1928 from a deep midden on one of the Punuk Islands. Later excavation on St Lawrence Island confirmed Jenness's ideas on the Bering Sea culture, and demonstrated a continual cultural sequence on the island from Old Bering Sea, to Punuk, to modern Eskimo culture.\n\nPunuk is differentiated with Old Bering Sea through its artifact styles and house forms, as well as harpoon styles and whale hunting. Punuk settlements were larger and more common than earlier villages. They were subterranean, square or rectangular dwellings with wooden floors. The house was held up by whale jaw-bones, and covered in skins, sod and then snow. These houses were nicely insulated, and would have been only visible to the occupants.\n\nWhaling has a greater emphasis in the Punuk stage. Hunters would use umiaks and kill whales in narrow ice leads as well as in the open sea in the fall. Open sea whaling required skilled leadership, teams of expert boatmen and hunters, and the cooperation of several boats. The whaleboat captain, the umialik, is still a prominent position in Arctic communities today.\nChipped stone tools were replaced by ground slate, ivory winged tolls were largely replaced by tridents, and iron-tipped tools were used for engraving. Harpoon styles became simpler and more standardised, as did Punuk art. The Punuk developed their methods of hunting that led to the creation of armor made from bone as well as the technology of the bow and arrow. As well, bone plated wrist guards, the reinforced bow, bird bola, heavy ivory net sinkers, and blunt tipped bird arrows appeared in the Punuk stage.\n\nBirnirk culture is best known along coastal northern and western Alaska. There are three phases of Birnirk culture: Early Birnirk, Middle Birnirk, and Late Birnirk. These phases were primarily distinguishable by gradual changes in harpoon head and arrow styles. Harpoon heads were more often made of antler, rather than ivory, and were characterized by medially-placed, trifurcated spurs during Early Birnirk, bifurcated in Middle Birnirk, and single-laterally-placed spurs in Late Birnirk.\n\nThe Birnirk people used many of the same hunting methods and technology as Punuk and Old Bering Sea, but there was no art. There is very little evidence of tool or weapon decoration. The little art that was present in the Birnirk stage was limited to spiral and concentric motifs on clay pots with bone paddles. They did use sledges, of the same basic design as were later used with dog teams. Birnirk people were sea-mammal hunters who engaged in fishing and whaling. Birnirk houses were square shaped, with walls constructed of horizontal logs and single or double posts in each corner. Sleeping areas were at the back of the dwelling and were either built up or at floor level. No interior hearths were found in the house ruins, although heavily encrusted and fire-blackened pottery vessel fragments suggest extensive use of open fires.\n\nDuring this time, eastern Thule spread out throughout the high arctic and into the south. Thule people were living along the Hudson Strait coasts, in the Hudson's Bay region, and on the shores of the Foxe Basin, along the mainland from the Mackenzie Delta to Melville Peninsula. The term \"Classic Thule\" was originally coined by archaeologist Alan McCartney in regards to the population that existed between A.D. 1100 and 1400.\nThe Thule people still lived in semi-subterranean winter houses, but in the summer moved into skin tents, the edges held down by circles of stone. The Thule were using iron long before European contact. In the west it was used in small quantities for carving knives and for engraving other tools. The source of the iron came from both meteoric resources as well as trade from the Norse expansion and was used in the creation of projectile points through a process called epi-metallurgy which made stronger, harder, more efficient points. The metal enabled the Thule people to work with more materials to make more wood and bone tools. The only problem they faced was a lack of a steady supply of metal. The Thule were clever with technology. Reports on classic Thule sites lists myriad artifacts used for hunting. Classic Thule did not place much emphasis on art. There were slight artistic details on household things such as combs but it was very simple, linear designs featuring people without appendages, animals, or symbols that represented the human ties with the supernatural world.\n\nPost Classic Thule tradition existed from A.D. 1400 up until European contact in areas where whales were not as prevalent so there is an increase in evidence of other means of subsistence, such as caribou, seal and fish. These settlements show a more gradual settlement of fewer whales and using more subsistence strategies from the west. The redistribution of the Thule people reflects the population pressures of the Classic Thule, but the climate played a more important role. The onset of the \"Little Ice Age\" that occurred between A.D. 1400 and 1600 limited the use of boats and number of whales present in the area. This shortened the season for open-water whale hunting. By the 16th century, umiak and kayak whale hunting had ceased in the High Arctic. By A.D. 1600 the people had moved on and abandoned the High Arctic due to the severe climate changes. The Thule Eskimos who lived near open water were not as affected by the decrease in temperature. It was during this time that local groups such as the Copper Inuit, Netsilingmuit, and Inglulingmuit emerged.\n\nBetween A.D. 900 and A.D. 1100 the Thule Tradition spread westward. The efficiency of housing was improved as they spread to the west and hunting methods were improved due to the use of dog sleds, umiaks, and kayaks. This enabled the hunters to travel further to hunt and follow the migration of the large game and sea mammals. After A.D. 1000 the practice of using polished slate for tool making continued to spread to the Aleutian Islands. The methods of pottery making also spread and replaced the Norton tradition in Southern Alaska. There were differences between the areas to which the tradition migrated. Houses in the more eastern region were more above ground and round with stone platforms to sleep on. The shape and support for the buildings came from whale bones. Eastern populations preferred soapstone domestic items instead of pottery and developed the use of dogs to pull sleds.\n\nSometime around the beginning of the 2nd millennium, Thule people began migrating east. As western Thule peoples settled the northern and western coasts of Alaska, other Thule groups migrated eastward across the Canadian Arctic as far as Greenland. Prior to A.D. 1000, the central and eastern Canadian Arctic were occupied by people of the Dorset Culture. Within a few centuries, Dorset culture was completely displaced by Thule immigrants from the west. Evidence of contact between Dorset and Thule peoples is scarce and the nature of the Dorset/Thule succession remains poorly understood.\n\nThule culture was first identified in the Eastern Arctic by interdisciplinary researches of Danish scholars between 1921 and 1924. A team of anthropologists, archaeologists and natural scientists compiled a massive description of the Canadian Arctic on the fifth Thule expedition. Therkel Mathiassen added upon their research and claimed that the tradition had started out in Alaska, and that Thule hunting was based on the dog sled, the large skin boat and the kayak which enabled them to range over a much greater hunting territory, participate in widespread trade, and transport heavier loads. Mathiassen was right about his hypotheses and even mapped out the Thule migration and interaction with Greenland.\n\nThere are many different theories as to why the Thule moved out of the Bering Strait. One is the cultural/ecological model developed by R. McGhee. The ideas is that the first Thule families to move, followed groups of bowhead whales, which were an important source of food, fuel and raw materials. The onset of the Neo-Atlantic climatic episode, a warming trend which occurred between A.D. 900 and 1200 in the northern hemisphere, resulted in the lengthened season of open water along the North Alaskan Coast, and an extension of the summer range of bowhead whales into the Beaufort Sea and further east into the Canadian Archipelago. Like other whale species, bowheads tend to avoid ice-choked channels and passages because of the possibility of entrapment and death. General climatic warming may have reduced the extent and severity of pack ice, allowing bowheads and their Thule predators to expand eastward.\n\nAnother theory is that warfare in Alaska or a desire to seek out new resources of iron for making tools such as knives may have encouraged people to move eastward. Archaeologists have used the distribution of early Alaskan-style harpoon heads to track the routes taken by Thule people. One route follows the Beaufort Sea coast and Amundsen Gulf, entering the High Arctic via Parry Channel and Smith Sound. A second route led the Thule south, along the western coast of Hudson Bay.\n\nKnown for using slate knives, umiaks, seal-skin floats and toggling harpoons, the Thule subsisted primarily on marine animals—especially large sea mammals.\n\nThule winter settlements usually had one to four houses with about ten people each. Their houses were made of whale bones from summer hunts. Other structures included kill sites, food caches, and tent encampments. Some major settlements may have had more than a dozen houses, although not all were inhabited at the same time by the approximately fifty residents.\n\nThe different stages of the Thule Tradition are distinguished by their different styles of making tools and art. The later stages, Punuk and Birnirk, have greater representation in the archaeological record and are said to have spread further and lasted longer than their predecessor, the Old Bering Sea Stage. The Thule people are well known for their technological advances in transportation and hunting techniques and tools. The harpoon played a very significant role in whaling and the Thule people made several types of harpoon points out of whale bone. They also made inflated harpoon line floats to help them hunt larger prey.\n\nThe Classic Thule tradition relied heavily on the bowhead whale for survival because bowhead whales swim slowly and sleep near the water's surface. Bowhead whales served many purposes for the Thule people. The people could get a lot of meat for food, blubber for oil that could be used for fires for light and cooking purposes, and the bones could be used for building structures and making tools. The Thule people survived predominantly on fish, large sea mammals and caribou outside of the whaling communities. Because they had advanced transportation technology, they had access to a wider range of food sources. There is superb faunal preservation in Thule sites due to a late prehistoric date as well as an arctic environment. Most of the bowhead artifacts were harvested from live bowhead whales. The Thule developed an expertise in hunting and utilizing as many parts of an animal as possible. This knowledge combined with their growing wealth of tools and modes of transportation allowed the Thule people to thrive. They whaled together where one person would shoot the whale with the harpoon and the others would throw the floats on it and they all transferred the whale to land to butcher it together to share with the entire community. Their unity played a significant role in the length of time they thrived in the Arctic.\n\nThere are several major archaeological research projects that have been conducted on the Thule culture at sites including Torngat Archaeological Project, Somerset Island, The Clachan site, Coronation Gulf, Nelson River, Baffin Island, Victoria Island, the Bell site, Devon Island – QkHn-12, and Cape York.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54535213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54535213", "title": "Timeline of women in Denmark", "text": "Timeline of women in Denmark\n\nThis is a timeline of women in Denmark, noting important events in Danish women's history.´\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33094612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33094612", "title": "Turkic tribal confederations", "text": "Turkic tribal confederations\n\nThe Turkic term oğuz or oğur (in z- and r-Turkic, respectively) is a historical term for \"military division, clan, or tribe\" among the Turkic peoples.\nWith the Mongol invasions of 1206–21, the Turkic khaganates were replaced by Mongol or hybrid Turco-Mongol confederations, where the corresponding military division came to be known as \"orda\".\n\nThe 8th-century Kül Tigin stela has the earliest attestation of the term in Old Turkic epigraphy, as \"Toquz Oghuz\" \"nine tribes\"\nThe term occurs in numerous proper names of tribes or confederations of the time of the Turkic migration during the early medieval period, viz.\n\nThe Old Turkic stem \"uq-, oq-\" \"kin, tribe\" is from a Proto-Turkic \"*uk\".\nThe Old Turkic word is sometimes connected with the Old Turkic word \"oq\" \"arrow\";\nPohl (2002) in explanation of this connection adduces the Chinese T'ang-shu chronicle, which reports that\n\"the khan divided his realm into ten tribes. To the leader of each tribe, he sent an arrow. The name [of these ten leaders] was 'the ten \"she\"', but they were also called 'the ten arrows'.\"\n\nAn \"oguz\" (\"ogur\") was in origin a military division of a Nomadic empire, and only secondarily acquired tribal or ethnic connotations, by processes of ethnogenesis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52006084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52006084", "title": "Valeriy Smoliy", "text": "Valeriy Smoliy\n\nValeriy Smoliy () is a Ukrainian academician, historian, director of the NASU Institute of History of Ukraine.\n\nSmoliy was born on 1 January 1950 in a village Avratyn, Volochysk Raion, Kamianets-Podilskyi Oblast.\n\nIn 1970 he graduate the historical faculty of the Kamianets-Podilskyi State Pedagogic Institute. After that Smoliy worked as a rural teacher in schools of Ternopil Oblast and a teacher assistant in the Nizhyn Pedagogic Institute.\n\nSince 1972 Smoliy works at the NASU Institute of History of Ukraine. In 1975 he defended his candidate thesis \"Union of the right-bank Ukraine with Ukrainian lands within the Russian state\" () and in 1985 his doctorate thesis \"Social consciousness of Ukrainian national movements participants (second half of the 17th-18th centuries)\" (). Since 1986 Smoliy was heading one of departments of the institute. In 1991 he was elected a deputy director of the institute. In 1992 he was admitted to the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine as a corresponding member.\n\nSince 1993 Smoliy is a director of the NASU Institute of History of Ukraine. In 1995 he became a full member, academician, of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine.\n\nIn 1997–1999 Smoliy served as a vice-Prime Minister on humanitarian issues in the government of Valeriy Pustovoitenko.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4687619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4687619", "title": "Victor Neumann", "text": "Victor Neumann\n\nVictor Neumann (born October 28, 1953) is a Romanian historian, political analyst, and professor at the West University in Timişoara. He is a well-known specialist in the recent cultural and intellectual histories of Eastern and Central Europe (focusing his research on interculturalism and multiculturalism). Much of his work deals with Conceptual History, the Jewish-Romanian history, the history of antisemitism, as well as various topics connected with nationalism. As of October 2013, he is Director of the Timisoara Museum of Arts.\n\nBorn in Lugoj from a Christian mother and a Jewish father, Victor Neumann graduated from the University of Cluj-Napoca in 1976, and took a PhD in History from the University of Bucharest in 1992. He was a visiting professor at the Université Catholique de l'Ouest in Angers (1999), Emory University in Atlanta, and Georgia State University in Athens, Georgia (1999), the National Foreign Affairs Training Center din Washington, D.C. (2001), and the University of Vienna (2003-2004). In 1995-1997, he was the recipient of a NATO Scholarship, and, in 2000-2001, of a Fulbright Scholarship (at the Catholic University of America).\n\nNeumann was also head of research at the École Pratique des Hautes Études in Paris, and a lecturer at several higher learning institutions (the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, Columbia University, the London School of Slavonic and East European Studies, and the University of Udine).\n\n\nEdited and coordinated by:\n\nTranslations:\n\nResearching the Nation: The Romanian File. Studies and Selected Bibliography on Romanian Nationalism, Edited by Sorin Mitu, International Book Access, Cluj, 2008, 307p. + 165p. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "56994318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56994318", "title": "Walter T. Durham", "text": "Walter T. Durham\n\nWalter T. Durham (October 7, 1924 - May 24, 2013) was an American historian. He was the Tennessee State Historian from 2002 to 2013, and the author of 24 books of local history.\n\nDurham was born on October 7, 1924 in Gallatin, Tennessee to George Franklin Durham and Celeste McAlister. His paternal grandfather, J. T. Durham, served as a member of the Tennessee Senate. He served in the United States Army during World War II between 1943 and 1946. He subsequently attended the University of Wisconsin, and he graduated from Vanderbilt University, where he earned bachelor of arts and master's degrees.\n\nDurham worked as a businessman in Gallatin. He was the founding president of the Tennessee Heritage Alliance, later known as the Tennessee Preservation Trust. He also served as the president of the Tennessee Historical Society, and as the chairman of the Tennessee Historical Commission. In 2002, he was appointed as the Tennessee State Historian by Governor Don Sundquist.\n\nDurham was the author of 24 books of local history. He wrote about the Antebellum era like Congressman Balie Peyton or the Rose Mont plantation; the American Civil War of 1861-1865 in Tennessee; and the post-bellum era like the forty-niners from Tennessee who took part in the California Gold Rush.\n\nDurham married Anna Armstrong Coile, and they had four children. They resided in Gallatin.\n\nDurham died on May 24, 2013, at 88. His funeral was held at the First Methodist Church of Gallatin. He was succeeded as the Tennessee State Historian by Carroll Van West. Durham is the namesake of the Tennessee Historical Society's Walter Durham Award, given annually to scholars. The Walter T. Durham Bridge was named in his honor in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2452535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2452535", "title": "William Pember Reeves", "text": "William Pember Reeves\n\nWilliam Pember Reeves (10 February 1857 – 16 May 1932) was a New Zealand politician, historian and poet who promoted social reform.\n\nReeves's parents were William Reeves, who was a journalist and politician, and Ellen Reeves, \"née\" Pember. They had migrated from Britain to Canterbury Province in 1857, arriving three weeks before he was born.\n\nHe was educated at a private \"prep\" school in Christchurch, the local high school and, from 1867 to 1874, Christ's College Grammar School. Before entering politics, Reeves was a lawyer and journalist. He was editor of the \"Canterbury Times\" in 1885 and the \"Lyttelton Times\" (1889–1891).\n\nReeves represented the Christchurch electorate of St Albans in Parliament from 1887 to 1890, and then Christchurch from 1890 to 1896, when he resigned to take up the post of Agent General. During the premierships of John Ballance (1891–93) and Richard Seddon (1893–1906) he served as Minister of Labour (1892–96), Minister of Education (1891–96), Minister of Justice (1891–92, 1893, 1895–96) and Commissioner of Stamp Duties (1892–96). As Minister of Labour he introduced the Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1894 and the Undesirable Immigrants Exclusion Bill, which, if it had been passed, would have barred poor and Asian immigrants from the country. His opposition to the entry of those he considered \"undesirable\" immigrants earned him the nickname \"Undesirable Bill\" Reeves.\n\nIn January 1896 Reeves left New Zealand for London, where he was Agent General (1896–1905) and High Commissioner (1905–08). While he was in Britain Reeves became a friend of a number of left-wing intellectuals, such as George Bernard Shaw, H. G. Wells, and Sidney and Beatrice Webb, all leading members of the Fabian Society. He was also a member of the Coefficients dining club of social reformers.\nReeves became Director of the London School of Economics (1908–19) and President of the Anglo-Hellenic League (1913–25). He also headed the committee organising the First Universal Races Congress in London in 1911. Finally, he was chairman of the board of the National Bank of New Zealand from 1917 to 31.\n\nReeves's more influential writings include his history of New Zealand, \"The Long White Cloud\" (1898) and \"State Experiments in Australia and New Zealand\" (1902). He also published a number of poems, such as \"The Passing of the Forest\" and \"A Colonist in his Garden\".\n\nReeves married, in 1885, the feminist Magdalen Stuart Robison, who joined the Fabian Society. They had two daughters, the feminist writer Amber Reeves (born 1887) and Beryl (born 1889), and one son, Fabian Pember Reeves (1895–1917), who was killed in the First World War, aged 21, as a Flight Lieutenant in the RNAS.\n\nReeves three times declined offers of a knighthood.\n\n"}
