{"id": "48060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48060", "title": "19th century BC", "text": "19th century BC\n\nThe 19th century BC was the century which lasted from 1900 BC to 1801 BC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17989342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17989342", "title": "Alexander Dyukov (historian)", "text": "Alexander Dyukov (historian)\n\nAleksandr Reshideovich Dyukov (), (born October 17, 1978) is a Russian historian, writer, journalist and blogger. Dyukov is considered by critics to be a historical negationist downplaying Soviet repressions. He is persona non grata in Latvia, Lithuania and other Schengen memberstates.\n\nHe is General Director of the Moscow-based Historical Memory Foundation ().\n\nAleksandr Dyukov graduated from the Russian State University for the Humanities in 2004. The topic of his dissertation was the Soviet partisan movement in 1941–1943. From 2004 to 2007, Dyukov worked for the ARMS-TASS Agency of Military and Technical Information. He contributed as issuing editor of the weekly \"Military and Technical Cooperation\", later promoted to its editor-in-chief. He has published numerous articles in the newspapers \"Izvestia\", \"Komsomolskaya Pravda\", REGNUM News Agency and elsewhere focusing on Soviet history in the 20th century. After publishing two of Dyukov's books, REGNUM has since ceased cooperation with him following a conflict over Dyukov's statements in the Russian and Estonian media that his Historical Memory Foundation was primarily responsible for these publications.\n\nDyukov has been featured as an expert historical commentator on Novosti's Russia Today (now RT) channel and on their web site. Dyukov is a member of the working group set up by the Russian State Duma preparing a draft for a law on combating the rehabilitation of Nazism.\n\nOne of Dyukov's spheres of interest is the history of Soviet repression, mostly in the Baltic states and Ukraine, and more recently he has written a controversial paper downplaying the massacres at Kurapaty in Belarus. While Dyukov employs open archives such as from the State Archive of the Russian Federation (GARF) and the Russian State Archive of Contemporary History (RGANI), he also cites the archives of the FSB, to which access by researchers is limited. It is these FSB archives which Dyukov uses, for example, to claim in his recent book, \"The Genocide Myth\", that Estonia's recollection of Soviet repressions including deportations is exaggerated. In regard to the June 1941 deportations, that took place before German invasion of June 22, 1941, Dyukov contends that deported Estonians were mostly German collaborators or were linked to them.\n\nIn a 2007 interview with Russia's REGNUM News Agency Dyukov claimed that some Estonian historians were repeating false claims by the Nazi propaganda and said: \"Another example of unfair approach Estonian official historians is that in describing the deportation of 14 June 1941, they always mention that the deportees were transported in stock cars, with each car stuffed to 40-50 people, including women, children and the elderly. Therefore, they say, this deportation caused massive mortality. However, if we turn to the NKVD documents, a fair amount of which has already been published, one finds that, firstly, the transportation of deportees was carried out in passenger cars 'equipped for summer \"human\" traffic.' Secondly, each railroad car carried not 40-50, but about 30 deportees. Third, according to railroad documents, mass death was impossible. It can't be ruled out that during this deportation, not a single person died. Estonian historians, by the way, somehow forget that in every echelon of deportees there was an ambulance railroad car, which was accompanied by a doctor, paramedic and two nurses.\" In reaction to Dyukov's book, the newspaper \"Eesti Ekspress\" in Estonia denounced him as a revisionist historian who paints a picture of Soviet political repressions as \"little worse than a family picnic\".\n\nIrina Pavlova, a historian of the Soviet system under Lenin and Stalin, has commented that Dyukov promotes \"a new prison guard's concept of Soviet history\" based on his \"blind faith in the documents provided by the FSB archives\".\n\nA. Dykov's name has found mentioning in Estonia's Security Police (Kapo) 2008 yearbook, according to which Dykov, although lacking both post-secondary degree academic degree, has been granted exclusive access to FSB (former USSR's KGB) archive. The yearbook claimed that Mr Dykov's activities are approved by Russia's FSB. As of March 2012, Dykov has been prevented from entering Latvia by the Latvian Government, who cited concerns that Dykov's activities are harming the Latvian state and its citizens. According to spokesperson of Latvian Foreign Affairs Ministry Dykov has been blacklisted in Schengen memberstates visa database. In August 2014, Dyukov was denied entry into Lithuania.\n\nIn response to the Dyukov's critique on \"The Soviet Story\", the American photographer of Russian origin Sergey Melnikoff, expresses an opinion that Dyukov is associated with the Russian Federal Security Service.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1647832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1647832", "title": "Alexandre Herculano", "text": "Alexandre Herculano\n\nAlexandre Herculano de Carvalho e Araújo (March 28, 1810September 13, 1877) was a Portuguese novelist and historian.\n\nHerculano's family had humble origins. One of his grandfathers was a foreman stonemason in the royal employ. Herculano received his early education, comprising Latin, logic and rhetoric, at the Necessidades Monastery, and spent a year at the Royal Marine Academy studying mathematics with the intention of entering on a commercial career. In 1828 Portugal fell under the absolute rule of D. Miguel, and Herculano, becoming involved in the unsuccessful military \"pronunciamento\" of August 1831, had to leave Portugal clandestinely and take refuge in England and France. In 1832 he accompanied the Liberal expedition to Terceira Island as a volunteer, and was one of D. Pedro's famous army of 7,500 men who landed at Mindelo and occupied Porto. He took part in all the actions of the great siege, and at the same time served as a librarian in the city archives. He published his first volume of verses, \"A Voz de Propheta\", in 1832, and two years later another entitled \"A Harpa do Crente\".\n\nPrivation had made a man of him, and in these little books he proves himself a poet of deep feeling and considerable power of expression. The stirring incidents in the political emancipation of Portugal inspired his muse, and he describes the bitterness of exile, the adventurous expedition to Terceira, the heroic defence of Porto, and the final combats of liberty. In 1837 he founded the \"Panorama\" in imitation of the English \"Penny Magazine\", and there and in \"Illustração\" he published the historical tales which were afterwards collected into \"Lendas e Narrativas\"; in the same year he became royal librarian at the Ajuda Palace, which enabled him to continue his studies of the past. The Panorama had a large circulation and influence, and Herculano's biographical sketches of great men and his articles of literary and historical criticism did much to educate the middle class by acquainting them with the story of their nation, and with the progress of knowledge and the state of letters in foreign countries.\n\nAfter spending his early years as a poet, Herculano introduced the historical novel into Portugal in 1844 by a book written in imitation of Walter Scott. \"Eurico\" treats of the fall of the Visigothic monarchy and the beginnings of resistance in the Asturias which gave birth to the Christian kingdoms of the Iberian Peninsula. A second book, \"Monge de Cister\", published in 1848, describes the time of King João I, when the middle class and the municipalities first asserted their power and elected a king who stood in opposition to the nobility.\n\nFrom an artistic standpoint, these stories are rather laboured productions, besides being ultra-romantic in tone; but it must be remembered that they were written mainly with an educational goal, and, moreover, they deserve high praise for their style. Herculano had greater book-learning than Scott, but lacked descriptive talent and skill in dialogue. His touch is heavy, and these novels show no dramatic power, which accounts for his failure as a playwright, but their influence was as great as their followers were many.\n\nThese and editions of two old chronicles, the \"Chronicle of Dom Sebastião\" (1839) and the \"Annals of king João III\" (1844), prepared Herculano for his life's work, and the year 1846 saw the first volume of his \"History of Portugal from the Beginning of the Monarchy to the end of the Reign of Afonso III\", a book written on critical lines and based on documents.\n\nThe difficulties he encountered in producing it were very great, for the foundations had been ill-prepared by his predecessors, and he was obliged to be artisan and architect at the same time. He had to collect manuscripts from all parts of Portugal, decipher, classify and weigh them before he could begin work, and then he found it necessary to break with precedents and destroy traditions. Serious students in Portugal and abroad welcomed the book as an historical work of the first rank, for its evidence of careful research, its able marshalling of facts, its scholarship and its painful accuracy, while the sculptural simplicity of the style and the correctness of the diction made it a Portuguese classic. The second volume of his history appeared in 1847, the third in 1849, and the fourth in 1853.\n\nThe first volume, however, gave rise to a celebrated controversy, because Herculano had reduced the famous battle of Ourique, which was supposed to have seen the birth of the Portuguese monarchy, to the dimensions of a mere skirmish, and denied the apparition of Christ to King Afonso, a fable first circulated in the 15th century.\n\nHerculano was denounced from the pulpit and by the press for his lack of \"patriotism\" and piety, and after bearing the attack for some time his pride drove him to reply. In a letter to the cardinal patriarch of Lisbon entitled \"Eu e o Clero\" (1850), he denounced the fanaticism and ignorance of the clergy in plain terms, and this provoked a fierce pamphlet war marked by much personal abuse. A professor of Arabic in Lisbon intervened to sustain the accepted view of the battle, and charged Herculano and his supporter, Pascual de Gayangos with ignorance of the Arab historians and of their language. The conduct of the controversy, which lasted some years, did credit to none of the contending parties, but Herculano's statement of the facts was eventually universally accepted as correct.\n\nIn his youth, the excesses of absolutism had made Herculano a Liberal, and the attacks on his history turned this man, full of sentiment and deep religious conviction, into an anti-clerical who began to distinguish between political Catholicism and Christianity. His \"History of the Origin and Establishment of the Inquisition in Portugal\" (1854–1855), relating the thirty years' struggle between King John III and the Jews—he to establish the tribunal and they to prevent him—was compiled, as the preface showed, to stem the ultramontane reaction, but nonetheless carried weight because it was a recital of events with little or no comment or evidence of passion in its author.\n\nNext to these two books (\"History of Portugal from the beginning of the monarchy to the end of the reign of Afonso III\" and \"History of the origin and establishment of the Inquisition in Portugal\"), his study, \"Condition of the working classes on the peninsula from the seventh to the twelfth century\" (\"Do Estado des classes servas na Peninsula desde o VII. até o XII. seculo\"), was Herculano's most valuable contribution to history.\n\nIn 1856 Herculano began editing a series of \"Portugalliae monumenta historica\", but personal differences between him and the keeper of the Archives, which he necessarily frequented, interrupted his historical studies. On the death of his friend King Pedro V, Herculano left the Ajuda and retired to a country house near Santarém.\n\nThe alliance of Liberalism and Catholicism, represented by Herculano and his fellow poetic historians Chateaubriand and Lamartine had ended as the movement known as Ultramontanism grew within the Catholic hierarchy after the Revolutions of 1848. Disillusioned with mankind and despairing of the future of his country, Herculano rarely emerged from his retirement; when he did so, it was to fight political and religious reactionaries. Herculano defended Portugal's monastic orders (advocating their reform rather than suppression) and successfully opposed the entry of foreign religious orders. He supported the rural clergy and idealized the village priest in his \"Pároco da Aldeia\", an imitation, unconscious or otherwise, of Oliver Goldsmith's \"The Vicar of Wakefield\". Herculano also opposed the Concordat of February 21, 1857 between Portugal and the Holy See, regulating the Portuguese Padroado in the East. Herculano supported civil marriage, although his \"Studies on Civil Marriage\" (\"Estudos sobre o Casamento Civil\") was banned (put on the Index Librorum Prohibitorum). English historian Lord Acton and German historian Ignaz von Döllinger experienced similar problems, especially as they all fought the new dogmas of the Immaculate Conception (1854) and papal infallibility (1871). Other key documents issued by Pius IX during the ecclesiastical retrenchment include the Syllabus of Errors (1864) and Etsi multa (1873).\n\nIn the domain of letters he remained until his death a veritable pontiff, and an article or book of his was an event celebrated from one end of Portugal to the other. The nation continued to look up to him for intellecual leadership, but, in his later years, lacking hope himself, he could not stimulate others or use to advantage the powers conferred upon him. In politics he remained a constitutional Liberal of the old type, and, for him, the people were the middle classes in opposition to the lower, which he saw to have been the supporters of tyranny in all ages, while he considered radicalism to mean a return via anarchy to absolutism. However, though he conducted political propaganda campaigns in the press in his early days, Herculano never exercised much influence in politics.\n\nGrave as most of his writings are, they include a short description of a crossing from Jersey to Granville, in which he satirizes English character and customs, and he reveals an unexpected sense of humour. A rare capacity for tedious work, a dour rectitude, a passion for truth, pride, irritation when criticized, and independence of character are the marks of Herculano as a man.\n\nHe could be broken but never bent, and his rude frankness accorded with his hard, sombre face, and he often alienated men's sympathies though he seldom lost their respect. His lyricism is vigorous, feeling but austere, and almost entirely subjective and personal, while his pamphlets are distinguished by energy of conviction, strength of affirmation, and contempt for weaker and more ignorant opponents.\n\nHis \"History of Portugal\" is a great but incomplete monument. A lack of imagination and a deficit of the philosophic spirit prevented him from penetrating or drawing characters, but his analytical gift, joined to persevering toil and honesty of purpose, enabled him to present a faithful account of ascertained facts and a satisfactorily lucid explanation of political and economic events.\n\nHis remains lie in a majestic tomb in the Jerónimos Monastery at Belém, near Lisbon, which was raised by public subscription. His more important works have gone through many editions, and his name is still one to reckon with when considering modern historians of Portugal and of the Iberian peninsula.\n\nIn 1866, Herculano married an old love of his, Mariana Hermínia de Meira, born about 1830, with whom he had no children.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAttribution:\n\n"}
{"id": "1627206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1627206", "title": "Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979", "text": "Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979\n\nThe Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979 or AMAAA was a law passed by the UK government, the latest in a series of Ancient Monument Acts legislating to protect the archaeological heritage of England & Wales and Scotland. Northern Ireland has its own legislation.\n\nSection 61(12) defines sites that warrant protection due to their being of national importance as 'ancient monuments'. These can be either Scheduled Ancient Monuments or \"any other monument which in the opinion of the Secretary of State is of public interest by reason of the historic, architectural, traditional, artistic or archaeological interest attaching to it\".\n\nA monument is defined as:\n\nDamage to an ancient monument is a criminal offence and any works taking place within one require Scheduled Monument Consent from the Secretary of State. \n\nThe Act also provides for taking monuments into the care of the Secretary of State – the concept of 'guardianship' where a monument remains in private ownership but the monument is cared for and (usually) opened to the public by the relevant national heritage body. \n\nThe Act (in Part II) also introduced the concept of Areas of Archaeological Importance, city centres of historic significance which receive limited further protection by forcing developers to permit archaeological access prior to building work starting. As of 2004 only five city centres, all in England, have been designated AAIs (Canterbury, Chester, Exeter, Hereford and York). Part II of the Act was never commenced in Scotland.\n\nAs the provisions in AAIs are limited compared with the requirements that can be made of developers through the NPPF, and formerly its predecessors in PPS5 and PPG16, AAIs have fallen out of use.\n\nThe law is administered in England by Historic England and the Department of Culture, Media and Sport, in Scotland by Historic Scotland and in Wales by Cadw.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7509273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7509273", "title": "Armenian name", "text": "Armenian name\n\nAn Armenian name comprises a given name and a surname.\n\nAccording to Armenia's National Statistical Service, the most commonly used names for newborn boys in Armenia, , were Davit, Narek, Gor, Hayk, Alex, Erik, Arman, Samvel, Tigran, and Aram. For girls, the most popular names were Nare, Milena, Maria, Mane, Ani, Anna, Anahit, Mariam, Elen, and Mary.\n\nTraditionally, Armenians have used Biblical names of Greek, Latin and Hebrew origin, such as Abraham, Hakob (Jacob), Hovhannes (John), Petros (Peter), Poghos (Paul), Madlene (Magdalene), Yeghisabet (Elizabeth), Tamar, etc.\n\nTypical modern Armenian last names (family names) end with the originally patronymic suffix -յան (reformed orthography) or -եան (classical orthography), transliterated as -yan, -ian, or less often '-jan'. Example: Petros\"yan\", meaning \"issued from Petros\", akin to the English name Peterson. Some Armenian last names bear the suffix -նց ([nʦʰ]), transliterated as -nc, -nts or -ntz (as in Bakunts or Adontz), or in addition to -yan/-ian (as in Vardanyants), although that is not common.\n\nSome Armenian surnames have a suffix -լի ([li]) preceding the -յան/-եան suffix. For example, Sivaslian and Vanlian refer to the cities of Sivas and Van, respectively. Other Armenian surnames have a suffix -ճի ([ʤi] or [ʧi]), transliterated as -ji/dji or -chi/tchi, preceding the -յան/-եան suffix. Names such as Kebabjian and Kahvejian refer to kebab and coffee merchants, respectively. While the -եան suffix already existed in the Classical Armenian period (e.g. Արտաշեսեան Artashesian, Մամիկոնեան Mamikonian), other suffixes, now rarer, also existed. The suffix -ունի (as in Բագրատունի Bagratuni, Արշակունի Arshakuni, [uni]) had a similar meaning to -եան.\n\nThe suffix -ցի ([tsʰi]) denoted a geographical provenance, e.g. Movses Khorenatsi (from Khoren) and Anania Shirakatsi (from Shirak).\n\nThe prefix Տեր ([ter]), which comes from how one addresses a priest, is typically Armenian. It might be followed by a space or attached directly to the root. If someone possesses a surname containing \"Der\" or \"Ter\" it usually signifies that this person has a patrilineal ancestor who was a priest.\n\nThe roots of names ending with -ian/-yan are typically first names, such as Petrosian \"issued from Petros\", Simonian \"issued from Simon\", etc. When the name ends in -lian or -(d)jian, the root is expected to refer to a location or a profession, respectively. Thus, the etymology of Vanlian is literally \"issued from the man from Van\" and that of Kebabjian is \"issued from the kebab merchant\". However, an ancestor's occupation will not necessarily contain the suffix -(d)ji, thus Vardapetian/Vartabedian (Վարդապետյան/-եան) translates as \"issued from the vardapet\", Bjishkian (Բժիշկյան/-եան) as \"issued from the doctor\" and Keshishian (Քեշիշյան/-եան) as \"issued from the priest\".\n\nThe -ian/-yan suffix may also, but more rarely, attach to an adjective denoting a quality. Thus, Bzdigian/Pztikian (Պզտիկյան/-եան) translates as \"issued from the small (man)\", Medzian/Metsian (Մեծյան/-եան) as \"issued from the tall (man)\", Ganantchian/Kanantchian (Կանանչյան/-եան) as \"issued from the green, i.e. young (man)\".\n\nSome former noble Armenian names, such as Artsruni/Ardzruni (Արծրունի) are still in use today. When they moved from Armenia or from the Middle East, some changed their last names to adapt better to their new societies. Sometimes the -ian or -yan ending was dropped and the root kept, such as Charles Aznavour (was Aznavourian), or Andy Serkis (originally Sarkissian). Other times the name was translated, as \"Tashjian\" (which is derived from Turkish word 'taş' meaning 'stone') becoming (approximately) \"Stone\".\n"}
{"id": "34662125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34662125", "title": "Arthur Gordon Butchers", "text": "Arthur Gordon Butchers\n\nArthur Gordon Butchers (11 February 1885 – 21 April 1960) was a New Zealand principal, educationalist and historian. He was born in Brunswick, Victoria, Australia on 11 February 1885.\n\nIn the 1947 New Year Honours, Butchers was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in recognition of his service as headmaster of The Correspondence School.\n"}
{"id": "48479023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48479023", "title": "Battle of Lạng Sơn (1979)", "text": "Battle of Lạng Sơn (1979)\n\nThe Battle of Lạng Sơn was fought during the Sino-Vietnamese War, days after the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) advanced 15 to 20 kilometers deep into the northern provinces of Vietnam. The fighting occurred primarily at the city of Lạng Sơn, a few kilometers from the Sino-Vietnamese border. Although the Chinese eventually occupied Lạng Sơn and its nearby vicinities during the battle, it proved during that time that the Chinese regular units invading northern Vietnam were no match against militia and irregular Vietnamese units tenaciously harassing the Chinese advance southward to Hanoi, Vietnam's capital city, and eventually took Chinese forces days to occupy the city and dislodge its defenders.\n\nAfter capturing the northern heights above Lạng Sơn, the Chinese surrounded and paused in front of the city in order to lure the Vietnamese into reinforcing it with units from Cambodia. This had been the main strategic ploy in the Chinese war plan as Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping did not want to risk an escalation potentially involving the Soviet Union. The Vietnam People's Army (VPA) high command, after a tip-off from Soviet satellite intelligence, was able to see through the trap, however, and committed reserves only to Hanoi. Once this became clear to the PLA, the war was practically over. An assault was still mounted, but the Vietnamese only committed one VPA regiment defending the city. After three days of bloody house-to-house fighting, Lạng Sơn fell on 6 March. The PLA then took the southern heights above Lạng Sơn.\n\nAs part of the punitive expedition against Vietnam for the occupation of the pro-Chinese Democratic Kampuchea, Chinese forces entered northern Vietnam and advanced quickly about 15–20 kilometers into Vietnam, with fighting mainly occurring in the provinces of Cao Bằng, Lào Cai and Lạng Sơn. The Vietnamese avoided mobilizing their regular divisions into the fight, using most of them for the defense of Hanoi. The Vietnamese forces tried to avoid direct combat, and often used guerrilla tactics to harass the Chinese forces advancing southwards. To make this work for the Vietnamese, they had to use their mountainous terrain to their advantage, which was a serious handicap for the Chinese trying to assault and destroy several Vietnamese irregular units.\n\nThe PLA General Staff Department placed the primary responsibility of capturing Lạng Sơn on the 55th Army from the Guangzhou Military Region and assigned the 54th and 43rd Armies from the Wuhan Military Region in supporting roles. Each of these armies of about 43,000 men was organized into three infantry divisions, one artillery regiment, and one anti-aircraft regiment. In addition, three regiments were also mobilized from the Chengdu Military Region, designated as Unit 56037, Unit 56039, and Unit 56229. The total strength of Chinese forces numbered about 130,000. The Chinese planned to launch their assault along all of the five roads that led to Lạng Sơn from the north, east, and south (Highways 1A, 1B, 4A, and 4B and the railroad for China), filling each of the directions with at least two or three divisions. From the border between markers 15 and 20, the 55th Army would thrust to the town of Đồng Đăng, while the 43rd would cross the border between markers 32 and 45, sweeping through Chi Ma before attacking Lộc Bình, which was 10 km to the southwest of Lạng Sơn, then moving northwest against the provincial capital via Highway 4B. The 54th Army would initially play its role as a reserve.\n\nMeanwhile, the Vietnamese defense in Lạng Sơn was assigned to the 3rd Division, a veteran division of the VPA that had participated extensively during the Vietnam War. This division, comprising the infantry 2nd, 12th, and 141st Regiments and the 68th Artillery Regiment, had about 9,950 men, assisted by several local force battalions from Lạng Sơn City and the districts of Văn Lãng and Cao Lộc, as well as the 166th Artillery Regiment and the 272nd Anti-Aircraft Regiment sent off from the 1st Military Region. The total Vietnamese strength was approximately 13,000 men, meaning that they were outnumbered 10 to 1. Three other divisions, the 327th, 337th, and 338th, stayed further from the front-line to serve as reserve units. To consolidate their defensive positions, the Vietnamese had built nearly 20,000 field fortifications, which were intensively camouflaged and supported by numerous minefields and obstacles.\n\nThe initial attacks was marked by Chinese artillery fire into Lạng Sơn at 05:00 on 17 February. The Chinese had paved way for their offensive throughout the night before by infiltrating the Vietnamese territory, cutting telephone lines and conducting sabotages. Waves of PLA troops from the 55th Army quickly overwhelmed Hill 386, a position situated 1.5 km south of the border, killing 118 Vietnamese. Though pockets of resistance were continued near the Friendship Pass and in Đồng Đăng, most of the Vietnamese defense was by then undertaken south of the town by the VPA 12th Regiment at the hamlet of Thâm Mô and its vicinity. After taking Hill 386, the PLA used the 163rd Division to capture Đồng Đăng and strike Vietnamese positions on the Thâm Mô line. The attack was backed by small groups of tanks arriving on Highway 4A. Fighting over the Thâm Mô area raged until 22 February, as Chinese charges in mass formations had been continuously repulsed with heavy casualties. The Chinese field commanders had to switch their tactics, using small-unit attacks to flank Vietnamese positions instead of frontal attacks by human waves. The change resulted in the fall of Thâm Mô to the hands of the PLA 163rd Division at 20:00. Đồng Đăng was taken on the next day.\n\nSimilarly, Chinese massed attacks to the east of Thâm Mô on Thâm Lũng, which had started from 17 February, were stiffly contained by the defenders. On 18 February, a Vietnamese counter-attack launched by the VPA 2nd Regiment drove PLA units back to their assemble positions on Hills 409, 611, and 675; this pattern was repeated on the following days. On 23 February, the PLA stormed Phai Môn, a position to the east of Thâm Lũng, using six waves of attacks, of which all were rebuffed. Chinese forces had to launch twelve more charges throughout the day to finally break through Thâm Lũng, allegedly suffering over 1,000 killed. At Cồn Khoang, a village in the rear of Hill 339, the Vietnamese 63rd Company had fended off the assault of an unevenly outnumbering Chinese force on 17 February, virtually wiping out an enemy battalion.\n\nFrom 24 to 26 February, fighting downscaled, as the PLA was holding back and regrouping. Two fresh Chinese divisions from the 54th Army, the 160th and 161st, moved up to spearhead the attacks, with the 55th Army behind preparing to advance toward Lạng Sơn. In meantime, the VPA 3rd Division had pulled out its troops from Thâm Mô to establish a new defensive perimeter between Cốc Chủ and Hill 417, on the western side of Highway 4A near Thâm Lũng, in order to keep the highway blocked, as well as to stand up to Chinese pressure from Thâm Lũng. On 24 February, the VPA 1st Military Region Command officially established the Lạng Sơn Front with Major General Hoàng Đan in charge.\n\nAt 06:05 on 27 February, Chinese forces renewed their offensive in Lạng Sơn with a four-pronged attack on Hill 417, Khau Ma Son, Pa Vai Son, and Khau Khao Son, giving friendly units time to encircle Lạng Sơn from the southeast and southwest. Khau Ma Son, a strategic 800-meter height located 4 km west-northwest of Lang Son that virtually obstructed all major roads near the town, fell to a Chinese unit at about 14:00. Chinese control over Khau Ma Son made Vietnamese defense from Coc Chu to Hill 417 exposed to enemy's sight, as well as threatened VPA 12th Regiment's positions near Choc Vo. However, the Vietnamese reacted promptly, retreating from the Coc Chu – Hill 417 defensive line to a group of positions between Quán Hồ and Kéo Càng, thus blocking the highway access to Lạng Sơn once again. The VPA command also reinforced their battered 12th Regiment by deploying the 42nd Regiment/327th Division to Kỳ Lừa, which was about 1 km north of Lạng Sơn, to face off the approaching PLA 43rd Army. Yet the remainder of the VPA 327th Division were still stationed further to the south at Chi Lăng to prevent any possible deeper Chinese intrusions. Other regular reserves, including three divisions of the 1st Corps (the 308th, 312th, and 320th-B), were also assembled south of the Kỳ Cùng River to protect Hanoi, leaving the task of defending Lạng Sơn City to the 3rd Division and the 42nd Regiment alone.\n\nFrom 28 February to 4 March, Chinese troops tried to push toward Lạng Sơn in a series of heavy engagements occurring to the north of the city. As the Chinese attacked, they also managed to take control over all the roads connecting with Lạng Sơn, thus employing Mao Zedong's strategy of \"the countryside surrounding the city\" in order to avoid a Vietnamese trap of a \"second Verdun\". By 28 February, they had captured all key positions that shielded Lạng Sơn from the northeast, including Khau Lau Son, Khau Bo Son, Khau Tang Son, and Pa Vai Son. Though seriously weakened, the Vietnamese 12th Regiment had not given up contesting Chinese troops along Highway 1B, with battalions and companies relentlessly defending Hills 607 and 649. On 2 March, a Chinese column on the highway was ambushed by a Vietnamese battalion. During the period of 2–10 March, a company of the Chinese Unit 56037 lost one-third of its men as it was holding a hill near Bản Lan against successive Vietnamese assaults. The PLA 163rd Division's advance toward the Kỳ Cùng Bridge on 1 March also met fierce resistance; one Chinese battalion was caught on open ground by heavy weapons firing from Hill 279, where the command post of the VPA 42nd Regiment was situated, and two rock hills near Dong Uyen. While the battle for Lạng Sơn was taking its course, Vietnamese forces also carried out raids against Chinese border towns of Malipo and Ningming, but caused no significant losses.\n\nFrom the south and the east of Lạng Sơn, it took the PLA 43rd Army two and a half weeks from 17 February to reach the city. Its 127th Division marched from Ba Sơn between border markers 32 and 33 to Highway 1A at Cao Lộc, the itinerary which took the Chinese ten days just to overcome the distance of 5 km from the border to Bản Xâm due to drastic interceptions by the VPA 141st Regiment. To the south of Lạng Sơn, the PLA 129th Division targeted Hill 392, Hill 623, and the township of Lộc Bình after crossing the border at Chi Ma. It took the Chinese eleven days to seize Lộc Bình, which was still 22 km away from Lạng Sơn. Chinese forces kept using mass formation attacks to suppress the strong Vietnamese resistance on these directions.\n\nOn 1 March, the PLA 165th Division/55th Army eventually pierced the Vietnamese defense held by the VPA 42nd Regiment at Lam Truong, which was 2 km northwest of Lạng Sơn. Its sister division, the 164th, had also captured the headquarters of the VPA 141st Regiment at Pò Lèo, which was 1.5 km to the northeast. By 2 March, Chinese forces had secured most of the hills around Lạng Sơn, having the city virtually besieged. At Khánh Khê, they encountered elements of the VPA 337th Division, which had been sent to hold off Chinese movement against Lạng Sơn in the area. On 3 March, the Chinese launched their final assault on Lạng Sơn. Contemporarily, the VPA 3rd Division, presumably followed by the 42nd Regiment, had been ordered to withdraw from the city and incorporated into the newly founded 5th Corps, which consisted of the 3rd, 327th, 337th, 338th, and 347th Divisions, for the purpose of future operations. The 12th Regiment, which had been cut off from the rest of the 3rd Division, was assigned to continue defending enclaves along Highway 1B. The Chinese 127th Division advanced across the Kỳ Cùng River at Phiêng Phúc along a line through the hills west of Highway 1B, swiftly overrunning the defense on Mê Mai Hill on its way before capturing the Mai Pha airfield and Hill 391 on the southeast on 4 March. On the same day, Hills 332, 317, and 382 fell to two reserve battalions from the 50th Army. The 163rd Division crossed the river between Khủi Khúc and Khòn Pát, penetrating 5 km south of Lạng Sơn to Pac Meng, a movement which had become the furthest advance toward Hanoi direction. On 5 March, the PLA 127th and 129th Divisions entered Lang Son City.\n\nAfter Lạng Sơn had been occupied, fighting still went on in Lộc Bình and the town of Móng Cái in Quảng Ninh Province. On 5 March, the Chinese government announced the withdrawal of troops from Vietnam. During their withdrawal, Chinese forces had destroyed the bridge south of Lạng Sơn. Vietnamese units in Lạng Sơn, though badly mauled after previous clashes, still continued their fight against Chinese troops. The VPA 327th, 337th, and 338th Divisions, which had been positioned southerly near Chi Lăng to prevent a possible Chinese breakthrough, were finally committed to the battle for a counter-attack. The 337th and 338th pursued and harassed Chinese forces as they were pulling back and returning to Chinese territory across Chi Ma.\n\nSimilar to those of the whole war, the casualty figures of both sides in the battle for Lạng Sơn are controversial: while Vietnamese sources claimed to have put 19,000 Chinese troops out of action, an after-battle report from the PLA 55th Army only admitted 1,271 killed and 3,779 wounded for the Chinese side in clashes around Đồng Đăng and Lạng Sơn. The Chinese also put the number of Vietnamese casualties during the battle at 10,401. According to Vietnamese documentation, the numbers of KIA and WIA of the VPA 3rd Division were respectively equivalent to 6.6% and 8.4% of its strength; each of the other divisions participating in the later phases reportedly suffered several hundreds killed. Even though the PLA claimed the destruction of several Vietnamese regular units, Chinese execution of their campaign proved both ineffective and inefficient, as the PLA's outdated tactics did not translate into rapid advance, and its numerous casualties were exchanged for relatively small gains. Despite their heavy losses from the battles in Vietnamese border provinces, the PLA declared that the road to Hanoi was now open and that their goal had been achieved, and withdrew from Vietnam back towards the Sino-Vietnamese border, marking the conclusion of the war.\n\n"}
{"id": "671732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=671732", "title": "Berossus", "text": "Berossus\n\nBerossus or Berosus (; name possibly derived from , \"Bel is his shepherd\"; ) was a Hellenistic-era Babylonian writer, a priest of Bel Marduk and astronomer who wrote in the Koine Greek language, and who was active at the beginning of the 3rd century BC. Versions of two excerpts of his writings survive, at several removes from the original.\n\nUsing ancient Babylonian records and texts that are now lost, Berossus published the \"Babyloniaca\" (hereafter, \"History of Babylonia\") in three books some time around 290–278 BC, by the patronage of the Macedonian/Seleucid king Antiochus I Soter (during the third year of his reign, according to Diodorus Siculus). Certain astrological fragments recorded by Pliny the Elder, Censorinus, Flavius Josephus, and Marcus Vitruvius Pollio are also attributed to Berossus, but are of unknown provenance, or indeed are uncertain as to where they might fit into his \"History\". Vitruvius credits him with the invention of the semi-circular sundial hollowed out of a cubical block. A statue of him was erected in Athens, perhaps attesting to his fame and scholarship as historian and astronomer-astrologer.\n\nA separate work, \"Procreatio\", is attributed to him by the Latin commentaries on Aratus, \"Commentariorium in Aratum Reliquiae\", but there is no proof of this connection. However, a direct citation (name and title) is rare in antiquity, and it may have referred to Book 1 of his \"History\".\n\nHe was born during or before Alexander the Great's reign over Babylon (330–323 BC), with the earliest date suggested as 340 BC. According to Vitruvius's work \"de Architectura\", he relocated eventually to the island of Kos off the coast of Asia Minor and established a school of astrology there by the patronage of the king of Egypt. However, scholars have questioned whether it would have been possible to work under the Seleucids and then relocate to a region experiencing Ptolemaic control late in life. It is not known when he died.\n\nVersions at several removes of the remains of Berossos' lost \"Babyloniaca\" are given by two later Greek epitomes that were used by the Christian Eusebius of Caesarea for his \"Chronological Canons\", the Greek manuscripts of which have been lost, but which can be largely recovered by the Latin translation and continuation of Jerome and a surviving Armenian translation. The reasons why Berossus wrote the \"History\" have not survived, though contemporaneous Greek historians generally did give reasons for the publication of their own histories. It is suggested that it was commissioned by Antiochus I, perhaps desiring a history of one of his newly acquired lands, or by the Great Temple priests, seeking justification for the worship of Marduk in Seleucid lands. Pure history writing \"per se\" was not a Babylonian concern, and Josephus testifies to Berossus' reputation as an astrologer. The excerpts quoted recount mythology and history that relate to Old Testament concerns. As historian and archaeologist W.G. Lambert observes: \"Of course Berossus may have written other works which are not quoted by Josephus and Eusebius because they lacked any Biblical interest\". Lambert finds some statements in the Latin writers so clearly erroneous that it renders doubtful whether the writers had first-hand knowledge of Berossus' text.\n\nBerossus' work was not popular during the Hellenistic period. The usual account of Mesopotamian history was Ctesias of Cnidus's \"Persica\", while most of the value of Berossus was considered to be his astrological writings. Most pagan writers probably never read the \"History\" directly, and seem to have been dependent on Posidonius of Apamea (135–50 BC), who cited Berossos in his works. While Poseidonius's accounts have not survived, the writings of these tertiary sources do: Vitruvius Pollio (a contemporary of Caesar Augustus), Pliny the Elder (d. 79 AD), and Seneca the Younger (d. 65 AD). Seven later pagan writers probably transmitted Berossus via Poseidonius through an additional intermediary. They were Aetius (1st or 2nd century AD), Cleomedes (second half of 2nd century AD), Pausanias (c. 150 AD), Athenaeus (c. 200 AD), Censorinus (3rd century AD), and an anonymous Latin commentator on the Greek poem \"Phaenomena\" by Aratus of Soloi (ca. 315–240/39 BC).\n\nJewish and Christian references to Berossus probably had a different source, either Alexander Polyhistor (c. 65 BC) or Juba II of Mauretania (c. 50 BC–20 AD). Polyhistor's numerous works included a history of Assyria and Babylonia, while Juba wrote \"On the Assyrians\", both using Berossus as their primary sources. Josephus' records of Berossus include some of the only extant narrative material, but he is probably dependent on Alexander Polyhistor, even if he did give the impression that he had direct access to Berossus. The fragments of the \"Babylonaica\" found in three Christian writers' works are probably dependent on Alexander or Juba (or both). They are Tatianus of Syria (2nd century AD), Theophilus Bishop of Antioch (180 AD), and Titus Flavius Clemens (c. 200 AD).\n\nLike Poseidonius', neither Alexander's nor Juba's works have survived. However, the material in Berossus was recorded by Abydenus (c. 200 BC) and Sextus Julius Africanus (early 3rd century AD). Both their works are also lost, possibly considered too long, but Eusebius Bishop of Caesaria (c. 260–340 AD), in his work the \"Chronicon\", preserved some of their accounts. The Greek text of the \"Chronicon\" is also now lost to us but there is an ancient Armenian translation (500–800 AD) of it, and portions are quoted in Georgius Syncellus's \"Ecloga Chronographica\" (c. 800–810 AD). Nothing of Berossus survives in Jerome's Latin translation of Eusebius. Eusebius' other mentions of Berossus in \"Praeparatio Evangelica\" are derived from Josephus, Tatianus, and another inconsequential source (the last cite contains only, \"Berossus the Babylonian recorded Naboukhodonosoros in his history\").\n\nChristian writers after Eusebius are probably reliant on him, but include Pseudo-Justinus (3rd–5th century), Hesychius of Alexandria (5th century), Agathias (536–582), Moses of Chorene (8th century), an unknown geographer of unknown date, and the \"Suda\" (Byzantine dictionary from the 10th century). Thus, what little of Berossus remains is very fragmentary and indirect. The most direct source of material on Berossus is Josephus, received from Alexander Polyhistor. Most of the names in his king-lists and most of the potential narrative content have been lost or completely mangled as a result. Only Eusebius and Josephus preserve narrative material, and both had agendas. Eusebius was looking to construct a consistent chronology across different cultures, while Josephus was attempting to refute the charges that there was a civilization older than that of the Jews. However, the ten ante-diluvian kings were preserved by Christian apologists interested in how the long lifespans of the kings were similar to the long lifespans of the ante-diluvian ancestors in the story of Genesis.\n\nThe Armenian translations of Eusebius and Syncellus' transmissions (\"Chronicon\" and \"Ecloga Chronographica\", respectively) both record Berossus' use of \"public records\" and it is possible that Berossus catalogued his sources. This did not make him reliable, only that he was careful with the sources and his access to priestly and sacred records allowed him to do what other Babylonians could not. What we have of ancient Mesopotamian myth is somewhat comparable with Berossus, though the exact integrity with which he transmitted his sources is unknown because much of the literature of Mesopotamia has not survived. What is clear is that the form of writing he used was dissimilar to actual Babylonian literature, writing as he did in Greek.\n\nBook 1 fragments are preserved in Eusebius and Syncellus above, and describe the Babylonian creation account and establishment of order, including the defeat of Thalatth (Tiamat) by Bel (Marduk). According to him, all knowledge was revealed to humans by the sea monster Oannes after the Creation, and so Verbrugghe and Wickersham (2000:17) have suggested that this is where the astrological fragments discussed above would fit, if at all.\n\nBook 2 describes the history of the Babylonian kings from Aloros till Nabonassaros (747–734 BC). Eusebius reports that Apollodorus reports that Berossus recounts 432,000 years from the first king Aloros to the tenth king Xisouthros and the Babylonian Flood. From Berossus' genealogy, it is clear he had access to king-lists in compiling this section of \"History\", particularly in the kings before the Flood, and from the 7th century BC with Senakheirimos (Sennacherib, who ruled both Assyria and Babylon). His account of the Flood (preserved in Syncellus) is extremely similar to versions of the Epic of Gilgamesh that we have presently. However, in \"Gilgamesh\", the main protagonist is Utnapishtim, while for Berossus, Xisouthros is probably a Greek transliteration of Ziusudra, the protagonist of the Sumerian version of the Flood.\n\nPerhaps what Berossus omits to mention is also noteworthy. Much information on Sargon (c. 2300 BC) would have been available during his time (e.g., a birth legend preserved at El-Amarna and in an Assyrian fragment from 8th century BC, and two Neo-Babylonian fragments), but these were not mentioned. Similarly, the great Babylonian king Hammurabi (ca. 1750 BC) merits only passing mention. He did, however, mention that the queen Semiramis (probably Sammuramat, wife of Samshi-Adad V, 824–811 BC) was Assyrian. Perhaps it was in response to Greek writers mythologising her to the point where she was described as the founder of Babylon, daughter of the Syrian goddess Derketo, and married to Ninus (the legendary founder of Nineveh, according to Greek authors).\n\nBook 3 relates the history of Babylon from Nabonassaros to Antiochus I (presumably). Again, it is likely that he used king-lists, though it is not known which ones he used. The Mesopotamian documents known as \"King-List A\" (one copy from the 6th or 5th centuries BC) and \"Chronicle 1\" (3 copies with one confidently dated to 500 BC) are usually suggested as the ones he used, due to the synchronicity between those and his \"History\" (though there are some differences). A large part of his history around the time of Naboukhodonosoros (Nebuchadnezzar II, 604–562 BC) and Nabonnedos (Nabonidus, 556–539 BC) survives. Here we see his interpretation of history for the first time, moralising about the success and failure of kings based on their moral conduct. This is similar to another Babylonian history, \"Chronicle of Nabonidus\" (as well as to the Hebrew Bible), and differs from the rationalistic accounts of other Greek historians like Thucydides.\n\nBerossus' achievement may be seen in terms of how he combined the Hellenistic methods of historiography and Mesopotamian accounts to form a unique composite. Like Herodotus and Thucydides, he probably autographed his work for the benefit of later writers. Certainly he furnished details of his own life within his histories, which contrasted with the Mesopotamian tradition of anonymous scribes. Elsewhere, he included a geographical description of Babylonia, similar to that found in Herodotus (on Egypt), and used Greek classifications. There is some evidence that he resisted adding information to his research, especially for the earlier periods with which he was not familiar. Only in Book 3 do we see his opinions begin to enter the picture.\n\nSecondly, he constructed a narrative from Creation to his present, again similar to Herodotus or the Hebrew Bible. Within this construction, the sacred myths blended with history. Whether he shared Hellenistic skepticism about the existence of the gods and their tales is unknown, though it is likely he believed them more than the satirist Ovid, for example. The naturalistic attitude found in Syncellus' transmission is probably more representative of the later Greek authors who transmitted the work than of Berossus himself.\n\nDuring his own time and later, however, the \"History of Babylonia\" was not distributed widely. Verbrugghe and Wickersham argue that the lack of relation between the material in \"History\" and the Hellenistic world was not relevant, since Diodorus' equally bizarre book on Egyptian mythology was preserved. Instead, the reduced association between Mesopotamia and the Greco-Roman lands during Parthian rule was partially responsible. Secondly, his material did not include as much narrative, especially of periods with which he was not familiar, even when potential sources for stories were available. They suggest:\n\nWhat is left of Berossus' writings is useless for the reconstruction of Mesopotamian history. Of greater interest to scholars is his historiography, using as it did both Greek and Mesopotamian methods. The affinities between it and Hesiod, Herodotus, Manethon, and the Hebrew Bible (specifically, the Torah and Deuteronomistic History) as \"histories\" of the ancient world give us an idea about how ancient people viewed their world. Each begins with a fantastic creation story, followed by a mythical ancestral period, and then finally accounts of recent kings who seem to be historical, with no demarcations in between. Blenkinsopp (1992:41) notes:\n\nThis early approach to historiography, though preceded by Hesiod, Herodotus, and the Hebrew Bible, demonstrates its own unique approach. Though one must be careful about how much can be described of the original work, his apparent resistance to adding to his sources is noteworthy, as is the lack of moralising he introduces to those materials he is not familiar with.\n\nIn 1498, Annius of Viterbo (an official of Pope Alexander VI) claimed to have discovered lost books of Berossus. These were in fact an elaborate forgery. However, they greatly influenced Renaissance ways of thinking about population and migration, because Annius provided a list of kings from Japhet onwards, filling a historical gap following the Biblical account of the Flood. Annius also introduced characters from classical sources into the biblical framework, publishing his account as \"Commentaria super opera diversorum auctorum de antiquitatibus loquentium\" (\"Commentaries on the Works of Various Authors Discussing Antiquity\"). One consequence was sophisticated theories about Celtic races with Druid priests in Western Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "803608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=803608", "title": "Choreia", "text": "Choreia\n\nChoreia () is a circle dance accompanied by singing (see Greek chorus, \"choros\"), in ancient Greece. Homer refers to this dance in his epic poem, the \"Iliad\".\n\nCognates of \"choreia\" are used for circle dances in a number of other countries:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25411921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25411921", "title": "Conservation area (United Kingdom)", "text": "Conservation area (United Kingdom)\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the term conservation area nearly always applies to an area (usually urban or the core of a village) considered worthy of preservation or enhancement because of its special architectural or historic interest.\n\nThe current legislation in England and Wales, the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990 (Section 69 and 70), defines the quality of a conservation area as being: \"the character or appearance of which it is desirable to preserve or enhance\". The current Scottish legislation is the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) (Scotland) Act 1997.\n\nAlmost 9,800 have been designated in England.\n\nThe Civic Amenities Act 1967 introduced the concept of conservation areas before being superseded by the 1990 Act. Stamford, Lincolnshire was the first conservation area to be designated. \n\nConservation areas can be found across a wide a range of urban and rural UK locations. For example, in the historic centres of town and cities such as Alexandra Palace and Park; model housing estates; historic mining, fishing and transport areas e.g. Crosby Garrett and rural villages such as Osmotherley.\n\nIn conservation areas, it is the protection of the quality and special interest of the neighbourhood or area as a whole that is intended, rather than specific buildings. For example, the layout of boundaries, roads, vistas and viewpoints, trees and green features, street furniture and surfaces, the characteristic building materials of the area, the mix of different uses, and the design of shop fronts may all be taken into account when deciding whether an area has a particular special architectural or historic interest. \n\nIt is the role of the listed building process to protect individual buildings, although it is common for many listed buildings to also be located within designated conservation areas where those individual buildings make a contribution to the special architectural or historic character of the area.\n\nCurrent Government planning policy on conservation areas is laid down (for England) mainly in section 12 'Conserving and enhancing the historic environment' of the National Planning Policy Framework (NPPF) and (for Wales) in \"Welsh Office Circular 61/96 – Planning and the Historic Environment: Historic Buildings and Conservation Areas\".\n\nThere are additional planning controls over certain works carried out within the conservation area. For example, demolition within conservation areas requires consent. The designation does not preclude development from taking place, but does require that developments preserve or enhance the historic character of the area, for example by ensuring that newly constructed buildings are of a high quality design. Conservation area status also removes some permitted development rights that apply in undesignated areas.\n\nIn England, conservation area consent was abolished by the ERR Act (1) and replaced with a requirement for planning permission for demolition of a building in a conservation area (1). In Wales, the requirement for conservation area consent remains. The circumstances in which such planning permission is required and the consequences of failing to apply for it when it is needed are the same as applied to conservation area consent.\n\nLocal authorities are chiefly responsible for designating conservation areas. They can designate any area of 'special architectural or historic interest' whose character or appearance is worth protecting or enhancing. Local and regional criteria are used, rather than any national standard. In exceptional circumstances, Historic England can designate conservation areas in London, but it has to consult the relevant Borough Council and obtain the consent of the Secretary of State for Culture Media and Sport. The Secretary of State can also designate in exceptional circumstances – usually where the area is of more than local interest. \n\nLocal authorities have additional powers under planning legislation to control changes to buildings in a conservation area that might usually be allowed without planning permission in other locations, for example changing the appearance of windows, adding external cladding or putting up satellite dishes.\n\nIn practice, enforcement of conservation areas varies, dependent on the resources and priorities of the local authority, and many fail to meet expectations. A conservation area may have a conservation area advisory committee, a non-elected body of people, some of whom may be expert, who are concerned about the conservation in the particular area.\nHistoric England maintains an \"at risk\" register which includes conservation areas.\n\nThe law requires that anyone proposing to cut down or carry out any work on any tree, with a stem diameter of more than 75 mm, when measured at 1.5 metres height above ground level, in a conservation area must give the council six weeks notice of their intentions. Work may only be undertaken either when permission has been given or the six weeks has expired. As of 2012, penalties for cutting down or destroying a tree were upgraded to an unlimited fine (previously this was a fine of up to £20,000) – and the landowner can also be required to replace the tree that was removed. For less serious offences, the penalty is a fine of up to £2,500.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28434260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28434260", "title": "Cor Edskes", "text": "Cor Edskes\n\nCor Edskes (1925 – 7 September 2015) was one of the most important authorities on the history of organ building in Northern Europe. He acted as the consultant for the restoration of many of Europe's most important historical organs, including those in the Nieuwe Kerk (Amsterdam) and Roskilde Cathedral (both working with the firm Marcussen & Son). \n\nBorn in Groningen, Edskes had a working relationship with the German organ builder Jürgen Ahrend that began in the 1950s, included the restoration of many organs in Germany and Holland, and culminated in the restoration of Arp Schnitger's largest surviving organ at St. Jacobi, Hamburg. Edskes was the major onscreen contributor to the documentary \"Martinikerk Rondeau\", in which he details the history of organs in and around Groningen.\n\nHe died in Haren, aged 90.\n\n"}
{"id": "14423521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14423521", "title": "Criton of Pieria", "text": "Criton of Pieria\n\nCriton of Pieria (Greek: Κρίτων Πιεριώτης, Πιερ(ι)εύς; Latin \"Crito Pieriota\", \"Pieriotes\", \"Pierius\", \"Pierensis\") was a 2nd-century Greek historian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6391286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6391286", "title": "Damon DiMarco", "text": "Damon DiMarco\n\nDamon DiMarco (born October 16, 1971), is a New York City author, actor, playwright, and historian. His oral history work has been compared to that of Studs Terkel. He was born in Princeton, New Jersey.\n\nDiMarco's oral histories include \"Tower Stories: An Oral History of 9/11\", which chronicles the September 11 attacks in 2001, from diversified perspectives on the destruction of the World Trade Center. When asked why he wrote the book, DiMarco told CNN news anchor Betty Nguyen that \"as a writer, my specialty is words. And so I couldn't go down to ground zero and dig, I couldn't pull bodies out. My service was to compile the accounts of people who did extraordinary things.\"\n\nThe book features a foreword by former Governor of New Jersey and Chairman of the 9/11 Commission Thomas Kean, who praised the book for being as important as the Federal Writer's Project under the Roosevelt Administration and the Works Progress Administration Slave Narrative. A starred \"Publishers Weekly\" review called Tower Stories a \"monumental work\" and says that \"DiMarco's contribution to the memory of that horrific day is enormous; the testimonies collected here form an amazing, one-of-a-kind account.\" \"MSNBC\" cited it as one of \"five must-read books about 9/11 and its legacy\", and said it was \"arguably the most successful attempt at capturing the enormity of the events of 9/11.\"\n\nDiMarco has appeared as a television and radio guest for 9/11-related events, notably on CNN, Premiere Radio Networks, and the National Geographic Channel.\n\nOther oral histories include \"Heart of War: Soldiers' Voices from the Front Lines of Iraq\", a collection of first-person narratives from U.S. veterans of the War in Iraq.\n\nCritics of DiMarco's oral history work praise the respect he pays to his interviewees. They note the diversity of perspectives he brings to bear on a single issue, as well as the fact that his interview subjects are often highly intelligent people whom mainstream media have failed to notice. DiMarco himself has voiced dissatisfaction with mainstream media.\n\nDiMarco wrote \"The Actor's Art & Craft\" and \"The Actor's Guide to Creating a Character\" with Bill Esper, one of the \"most important contemporary master-acting teachers\" in the United States. Esper founded the William Esper Studio and the Professional Actors Training Program at Rutgers University's Mason Gross School of the Arts. DiMarco has been called Esper's protégé. Both \"The Actor's Art & Craft\" and \"The Actor's Guide to Creating a Character\" detail how Esper explores and elaborates on the famous acting techniques pioneered by legendary acting teacher Sanford Meisner. The books have been endorsed by Meisner-trained actors and writers who studied with Esper, including David Mamet, Sam Rockwell, Patricia Heaton, Mary Steenburgen, Stephen Adly Guirgis, Gretchen Mol, and Calista Flockhart.\n\n\"The Quotable Actor\" collects 1001 quotes from actors on such diverse subjects as imagination, rehearsal, technique, and the actor's lifestyle. Featured quotes come from diverse sources including Constantin Stanislavski, Daniel Day-Lewis, Ellen Burstyn, Paul Newman, Jack Nicholson, Stella Adler, Forest Whitaker, Laurence Olivier, and many more.\n\nDiMarco collaborated on \"Out of Bounds\", written with Roy Simmons, a former offensive lineman for Georgia Tech who went on to play for the New York Giants and took the field in Super Bowl XVIII for the Washington Redskins. Simmons became the first former NFL player to publicly announce that he is HIV positive, and one of the first to reveal the extent to which drugs and alcohol backdrop the world of professional football. Following the release of \"Out of Bounds\", Simmons caused controversy among the gay and lesbian community by publicly stating that homosexuality is \"against God's will.\" Reviewer Beth Greenfield, writing for \"Time Out\" New York, advised readers \"Do Not Buy This Book\", perhaps based on Simmons' apparent hypocrisy.\n\nDiMarco wrote \"My Two Chinas: The Memoir of a Chinese Counter-revolutionary\" with Chinese political dissident, Tang Baiqiao. The books covers events surrounding Tang's life, including his experiences at the Tiananmen Square Protests of 1989, and after. \"My Two Chinas\" features a preface by photojournalist Jeff Widener who was a Pulitzer finalist for his iconic Tank Man photo; an introduction by Prof. Robert Thurman of Columbia University; and a foreword by the Dalai Lama. A starred \"Publishers Weekly\" review called the book \"beautifully-written\" and notes that it \"fully embraces the poetry and stories of China . . .both a history lesson and a heart-wrenching read.\"\n\n\"Fat Kid Got Fit: And So Can You!\" was written with Bill Baroni and details Baroni's lifelong battle with obesity and how he finally took control of his life at the Duke Diet and Fitness Center. The book features a foreword by Dr. Howard Eisenson, Executive director of the Duke Center, as well as endorsements by former Executive director Dr. Michael Hamilton and Tommy Thompson former governor of Wisconsin and a former United States Secretary of Health and Human Services.\n\n\"The Brown Agenda: My Mission to Clean Up the World's Most Life-Threatening Pollution\" recounts how Australian environmentalist and entrepreneur Richard Fuller founded Blacksmith Institute, an international nonprofit organization dedicated to eliminating life-threatening pollution in the developing world. The Institute works under grants from foreign nations, as well as global NGOs.\n\nA classically trained actor, DiMarco studied at the Mason Gross School of the Arts. He has acted in regional theatre, and lists television roles and independent films on his acting resume.\n\n\nDiMarco attended Steinert High School in Hamilton Township, Mercer County, New Jersey. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from Drew University in 1993, and a Master of Fine Arts degree from Rutgers University.\n\nHe has taught acting and directing in the Theater Arts department at Drew University, and at the New York Film Academy.\n\nIn 2012, he initiated the Writing for Public Intellectuals workshop for PhD students in the History and Culture program at Drew University's Caspersen Graduate School. However, he was removed after two semesters for incompetence.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35532197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35532197", "title": "Dimitrije Đorđević (historian)", "text": "Dimitrije Đorđević (historian)\n\nDimitrije \"Mita\" Đorđević (; 27 February 1922 – 5 March 2009) was a Serbian historian of modern European history, especially of the Balkans. \n\nĐorđević was born in Belgrade to a prominent Serbian family. When he was a law student, the Germans invaded Yugoslavia during World War II and he joined the resistance movement of Dragoljub Mihailovic. Đorđević was captured by the Germans and was imprisoned, ultimately in Mauthausen-Gusen concentration camp in Austria. He survived the war, but was in turn imprisoned by the communist regime in post World War II Yugoslavia. After he was pardoned and released, Đorđević was eventually allowed to commence study at the University of Belgrade, where he was a student of Vaso Čubrilović (one of the members of the Young Bosnia who conspired to assassinate Franz Ferdinand which led to the outbreak of World War I). Đorđević was awarded his doctorate in 1962. In 1970, Đorđević took up a position as a Full Professor of History at the University of California, Santa Barbara, joining a strong faculty in European History including Joachim Remak, Frank J. Frost, Leonard Marsak, Alfred Gollin, and C. Warren Hollister. He was elected a member of the Serbian Academy of Science and Arts in 1985. A popular undergraduate lecturer and graduate mentor at the University of California, Santa Barbara, in 1992 many of his former students contributed to his \"Festschrift\" entitled \"Scholar, Patriot, Mentor: Historical Essays in Honor of Dimitrije Djordjevic\". In retirement, Đorđević published his autobiography, \"Scars and Memory: Four Lives in One Lifetime\", describing his World War II and post World War II experiences. Professor Đorđević died in Santa Barbara on March 5, 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58223090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58223090", "title": "Dolors Bramon", "text": "Dolors Bramon\n\nMaria Dolors Bramon Planes (born 31 December 1943) is a Spanish philologist, historian, and university professor specializing in the Muslim world.\n\nDolors Bramon married Ernest Lluch in 1966, with whom she had three daughters – Eulàlia, Rosa, and Mireia – and whom she accompanied to Valencia in 1970 when he joined its University. They lived there for a decade, until 1977.\n\nFrom 1968 to 1983 she was an editor of the \"Gran Enciclopèdia Catalana\". In December 1977 she graduated from the University of Barcelona, where from 1979 to 1984 she was an assistant professor and received a doctorate in Semitic Philology.\n\nIn 1984 she became an interim assistant professor at the University of Zaragoza, and secured a titled position in 1986. A year later, in December 1987, she returned to the University of Barcelona as a full professor of Arab and Islamic Studies. In 1998 she received her doctorate in Medieval History.\n\nA specialist in the Islamic period in the Crown of Aragon, and especially in Catalonia, Bramon's work has focused on the presence of religious minorities (Mudejars, Jews) in these territories, Islamic theology, women in Islam, as well as philological studies on the influence and presence of Arabisms in the languages of the Iberian Peninsula.\n\nIn 1990 she was appointed director of the Historical Archive of Banyoles, a position which she held until February 2008. She was also advisor of the Lexographic and Onomastic Offices of the Institut d'Estudis Catalans beginning in 2000, and collaborator at the Philological Section of the Institute beginning in 2002.\n\nIn 2004 she became a professor of Islam at the .\n\nShe is currently a member of the Historical-Archaeological Section at the Institut d'Estudis Catalans, the Associació d'Escriptors en Llengua Catalana (AELC), the (GIERFI), and the Research Forum on the Arab and Muslim World (FIMAM), among other institutions.\n\nSince 2014 she has been president of the World University Service of the Mediterranean (WUSMED).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17748914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17748914", "title": "Eino Jutikkala", "text": "Eino Jutikkala\n\nEino Kaarlo Ilmari Jutikkala (24 October 1907 in Sääksmäki – 22 December 2006 in Helsinki), until 1931 Rinne, was a Finnish historian, and professor of history at the University of Helsinki from 1950 to 1974. He had an exceptionally long and prolific career, and is considered one of the most important Finnish historians of the 20th century.\n\nJutikkala wrote mainly about collective phenomena in history, focussing on social and economic history. His main contributions are in the areas of early modern period economic history and historical demography. His methodological innovations are also thought to have greatly improved the quality of local history research in Finland.\n\nFor generations of English-speaking readers he has made Finland's history known through his book \"A History of Finland\", written with Kauko Pirinen.\n\nIn his will, Jutikkala donated twenty-two million euros to the Finnish Academy of Science and Letters to be used to support research in the humanities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "162076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=162076", "title": "Eunapius", "text": "Eunapius\n\nEunapius (; fl. 4th–5th century AD) was a Greek sophist and historian of the 4th century AD. His principal surviving work is the \"Lives of Philosophers and Sophists\" (; ), a collection of the biographies of 23 philosophers and sophists.\n\nHe was born at Sardis, AD 346. In his native city he studied under his relative, the sophist Chrysanthius, and while still a youth went to Athens, where he became a favourite pupil of Prohaeresius the rhetorician. He possessed considerable knowledge of medicine.\n\nEunapius was the author of two works, one entitled \"Lives of Philosophers and Sophists\", and \"Universal History\" consisting of a continuation of the history of Dexippus. The former work is still extant; of the latter only excerpts remain, but the facts are largely incorporated in the work of Zosimus. It embraced the history of events from AD 270–404.\n\nThe \"Lives of Philosophers and Sophists\", a collection of the biographies of 23 older and contemporary philosophers and sophists, is valuable as the only source for the history of the Neoplatonism of that period. The style of both works is marked by a spirit of bitter hostility to Christianity. Photius had before him a \"new edition\" of the history in which the passages most offensive to Christians were omitted.\n\nThe \"Lives of Philosophers and Sophists\" consists of the biographies of the following philosophers and sophists: Plotinus, Porphyry, Iamblichus, Alypius, Sosipatra, Aedesius the Cappadocian, Sopater, Ablabius, Eustathius, Maximus, Priscus, Julian of Cappadocia, Prohaeresius, Epiphanius, Diophantus (Diophantus the Arab), Sopolis, Himerius, Parnacius, Libanius, Acacius, Nymphidianus, Zeno of Cyprus, Magnus, Oribasius, Ionicus and Chrysanthius.\n\nIn his later years he seems to have lived at Athens, teaching rhetoric. Initiated into the Eleusinian Mysteries, he was admitted into the college of the Eumolpidae and became hierophant. There is evidence that he was still living in the reign of the younger Theodosius.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9926157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9926157", "title": "George William Rusden", "text": "George William Rusden\n\nGeorge William Rusden (9 July 1819 – 23 December 1903) was an English-born historian, active in Australia.\n\nRusden was born in Leith Hill Place (near Dorking), Surrey, England, son of the Rev. George Keylock Rusden, M.A. (1784-1859) and his wife Anne, \"née\" Townsend. G.K. Rusden was a polyglot and mathematician who kept a private school for 23 years in Surrey before migrating with his family to New South Wales where he was appointed a chaplain at Maitland from 1 January 1835.\n\nGeorge William Rusden travelled with his family to Australia and befriended Charles Nicholson on the voyage. Rusden was at first employed on the land, and was soon managing properties. At 28 years of age Rusden travelled to China and worked for a time at brother-in-law Ellis Gilman's Canton factory. Rusden visited his brother Alfred who was a tea-taster in Shanghai before returning to Sydney in early 1849.\n\nIn 1849 Rusden became an agent for the establishment of national schools in the Port Phillip district and later at Moreton Bay. He was appointed under-secretary in the colonial secretary's office at Melbourne in 1851, clerk of the executive council in 1852, and clerk of the Victorian Legislative Council in 1856. He retained his interest in education as a member of the council of the University of Melbourne from its inception, and was largely responsible for the foundation of the Shakespeare scholarship. In 1871 he published \"The Discovery, Survey and Settlement of Port Phillip\", an interesting pamphlet of some 60 pages. Three years later his \"Curiosities of Colonization\" appeared. This consists largely of accounts of Maurice Margarot, one of the \"Scottish Martyrs\", and Joseph Holt, the Irish rebel general. Both of these pamphlets are very scarce.\n\nIn 1882 Rusden retired to England on a pension of £500 a year. He had for some time been working on his \"History of Australia\" and his \"History of New Zealand\", which were published in 1883, each in three volumes. Unfortunately for Rusden he had accepted statements, made by a bishop in New Zealand and forwarded by a governor of the colony, without verifying them. These reflected on the conduct of John Bryce, a well-known politician in New Zealand, who brought an action for damages and obtained a verdict for £5000. On an appeal for reduction of damages in which Rusden conducted his own case with great ability (see his \"Tragedies in New Zealand\", privately printed 1888), the parties to the suit came to an agreement, that Bryce should be paid £3675 in satisfaction of all claims. In 1888 Rusden published his \"Aureretanga; Groans of the Maoris\", and a new edition of his \"History of New Zealand\" appeared in 1895. The second edition of the \"History of Australia\" was published in 1897 and his last work, \"William Shakespeare\", was in the press at the time of his death. It is largely a collection of extracts from the plays with a running commentary. In addition to the works already mentioned, Rusden published some verse, \"Moyarra: An Australian Legend\", 1851, second edition 1891, and \"Translations and Fragments\", published c. 1876. He also published several pamphlets. Rusden returned to Australia on medical advice in January 1893 and lived in South Yarra. Rusden died in Melbourne on 23 December 1903. \n\nRusden was conservative in his politics and neither of his histories is free from bias; he had no access to the \"Historical Records of Australia\" of which 33 volumes have since been published. \n\nA house at Melbourne Grammar School has been named in honour of Rusden, and was established in 1914 after he bequeathed the school £2000 and the bulk of his manuscripts. The house is known as Rusden House, and its colour is yellow.\n\nA younger brother, Henry Keylock Rusden, born in 1826, joined the Victorian civil service in 1853. He was secretary of the Royal Society of Victoria for several years and published many pamphlets.\n"}
{"id": "36170490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36170490", "title": "Herman Ossian Armour", "text": "Herman Ossian Armour\n\nHerman Ossian Armour (March 7, 1837 – September 8, 1901) was an American businessman and philanthropist who with his brother, Philip Danforth Armour, co-founded the meatpacking firm of Armour & Company, which would exist as the nation's largest such company for much of the twentieth century.\n\nBorn the seventh of eight children in Stockbridge, New York, his parents were Methodists of English and Scotch ancestry. In 1865, Armour established the New York syndicate of Armour Meats under the name \"Armour, Plankinton & Co.\" This move was prompted by a series of restrictive laws regarding lines of credit in effect throughout most Midwestern states at the time. American forebear of the Armour family, Scotsman James Armour was among the earliest to settle in the newly established British colony of New Jersey, arriving just three years after its establishment in 1664, though settlers from Holland, Germany, Sweden, and France had been living in the area since 1614 in the former New Netherland and New Sweden (\"Nya Sverige\") colonies. Armour died on September 8, 1901 at his New York City home and was laid to rest at the family mausoleum in Woodlawn Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "37020320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37020320", "title": "Historic Centre of Trujillo", "text": "Historic Centre of Trujillo\n\nThe Historic Centre of Trujillo is the main urban area and the most important center of development and unfolding in the Peruvian city of Trujillo located in La Libertad Region. The whole process of its original urban fabric is in elliptical shape surrounded by España Avenue that was built in the wake of the Wall of Trujillo. It houses the seat of city government and other important entities in the locality. In the center of this historic urban area is the \"Plaza de Armas of Trujillo\" that was the scene of the Spanish founded of the city in 1534 and the proclamation of the independence of Trujillo on December 29, 1820.\n\nThe historic centre of Trujillo contains numerous monuments dating from the Viceroyalty and Republican, was declared a \"Monumental City\" by municipal decree of April 23, 1971 and \"Monumental Area\" by Supreme Resolution No. 2900-72-ED of December 26, 1972, is also the largest urban center and characteristic of the city that maintains its dual status as \"historic centre\" and \"active center\" of the conglomerate metropolitan of Trujillo, according to the role that gives the \"Metropolitan Development Plan of Trujillo\". The care and maintenance of the historic area of Trujillo is conducted by the \"Provincial Municipality of Trujillo\", according to Law No. 23 853 of the Organic Law of Municipalities, which authorizes it to regulate, promote and ensure the conservation of \"Cultural Heritage\" of the city such as environments and historic buildings monuments.\n\nThe \"historic centre of Trujillo\" occupies approximately 133.5ha area and consists of a total of 1,783 lots, grouped in 72 blocks are located within the area that is also known as the \"Enclosure of Trujillo\" and originally was bounded by the wall of the city.\n\nAccording to the census of 2005 the historic centre of Trujillo then had a population of about 12,000 inhabitants and is populated by various monuments including buildings predominate product of colonial and religious architecture prevailing during the viceroyalty era, as well as houses dating from the same era and the dawn of the republic whose hallmarks are its balconies and windows to fashion lace trellises.\n\nMartín de Estete began the stroke of the city of Trujillo on behalf of Diego de Almagro in December 1534. The original urban fabric of the historic centre of Trujillo has an elliptical structure formed by the España Avenue, in this structure the streets are wide and straight, and are arranged in a checkerboard that part of the Plaza de Armas of the city. Besides the urban area surrounded by España Avenue is also part of the monumental area of the historic centre the area comprising the Mansiche sports complex, the former railway station of Trujillo as well as the area occupied by the bullring in the city and areas of the parts that still remain of the Old Wall of Trujillo.\n\n\nIn the historic centre of Trujillo are characteristic of the architecture the typical balconies and barred windows that look buildings like viceroyalty mansions, city hall, etc.\n\nThe historic city centre is full of various monuments predominating buildings product of colonial and religious architecture prevailing during the viceroyalty era, as well as mansions dating from the same era and the beginning of the republic whose hallmarks are balconies and windows to fashion lace trellises. Among the major historical sites and monuments are the following:\n\nThe Plaza de Armas of Trujillo or Plaza Mayor of Trujillo, is the foundation of the city of Trujillo. It is the principal historic public space of the city. All around are the buildings of the Palace of the City Government, the Cathedral of Trujillo, the Archbishop of Trujillo, harmonious viceroyalty and republican mansions etc. The plaza de armas is surrounded by the jirón Pizarro, jirón Independencia, the jirón Orbegoso and the jirón Almagro. In the center stands the Freedom Monument, which represents the country's independence process and \"as commentators represents the most precious of human beings, love of freedom, the recall and recognition to the distinguished men we got independence\". The statue was a work in Germany, materials used are marble and copper, the sculptor was Edmund Möeller.\n\nLocated in the center of the Plaza de armas of Trujillo and is work by sculptor Edmund Möeller and consists of three sections: the first is on a circular platform with pedestals, resting on a granite base, supporting the sculptures representing the art, the science, the trade and the health. The second consists of three robust statues. A statue of a man that snorts, the same that is crouched, symbolizing the oppression or slavery. A second statue's arms back, symbolizing the struggle for freedom. The third statue is a man with arms raised and hands doing fist, symbolizing the liberation. Also in this body are follows plaques: one commemorating the proclamation of independence of Trujillo, by José Bernardo de Torre Tagle, on December 29, 1820. The second plaque commemorates the Battle of Junín and the third plaque commemorating the Battle of Ayacucho.\n\nThe Historic Centre of Trujillo hosts Catholic churches built in the viceroyalty era.\n\nBuilt between 1647 and 1666, its altars are Baroque and Rococo, its paintings belong to the Cuzco Paint School and the Quito School. The cathedral has the \"Cathedral Museum\" mainly religious works of the viceroyalty era in gold and silver. It is located in the Plaza de Armas of Trujillo in Orbegoso street.\n\n\nLocated a few blocks from the Plaza de Armas is with its coffee bar one of the most splendid of the city and unique in the country, owned by the renowned painter Gerardo Chávez, here it can find toys dating from the mid-20th century. It is located in the block of Jirón Independencia in one corner of the intersection with the Jirón Junín.\nSet on the corner of Jirón Gamarra with Jirón Pizarro, is a traditional cultural center for excellence in Trujillo, here are art exhibitions and special ceremonies are performed in the central patio. Housed in a beautifully restored mansion that was the scene of gestation of Independence of Trujillo by Torre Tagle in 1820, now owned by Banco Continental, is a must for all tourists seeking culture in Trujillo.\nAnother place that provide very culture is the College of Architects of La Libertad, located in the historic centre, the rooms of the seat of the school presented artwork by different authors, from time to time is changed the exposition with a new one.\nAdministered by the National University of Trujillo, the \"Museum of Zoology\" is one of the oldest in the city, it shows an interesting display of varied taxidermic fauna of the coast, highlands and jungle of Peru, each year the museum is one of the most visited in Trujillo, entrance fees vary for schools, universities and tourists. It is located in block 3 of the jirón San Martín.\nAdministered by the National University of Trujillo, the museum is mainly intended to show through seven rooms the historical process development on the north coast and particularly in the coastal valleys of La Libertad Region, since the arrival of the first inhabitants, 12,000 years ago, until the arrival of European conquistadors in 1532. Has been placed special emphasis on establishing a harmonious relationship between the museum and the existing architecture of the house, resulting in the design and distribution of exhibition modules, lighting systems, among others. Since 1939 the museum is giving the public the best shows of our local and national history, currently housed in the \"Casona Risco\", on Jirón Junín 682.\n\nAdministered by the Metropolitan Archbishop of Trujillo, the museum displays all the religious history of the city from colonial times to the present.\nAdministered by the Central Reserve Bank of Peru, located in the manson Urquiaga, exhibits a unique collection of coins from the beginnings of Peru to the present day, also keeps furniture and household equipment itself of colonial and republican, since from this manson Simón Bolívar led the government of the country.\n\n\n\nSome of the places of entertainment for visitors in the historic centre of Trujillo are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36012813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36012813", "title": "History of Basque whaling", "text": "History of Basque whaling\n\nThe Basques were among the first to catch whales commercially, as opposed to aboriginal whaling, and dominated the trade for five centuries, spreading to the far corners of the North Atlantic and even reaching the South Atlantic. The French explorer Samuel de Champlain, when writing about Basque whaling in Terranova (i.e. Newfoundland), described them as \"the cleverest men at this fishing\". By the early 17th century, other nations entered the trade in earnest, seeking the Basques as tutors, \"for [they] were then the only people who understand whaling\", lamented the English explorer Jonas Poole. \n\nHaving learned the trade themselves, other nations adopted their techniques and soon dominated the burgeoning industry – often to the exclusion of their former instructors. Basque whaling peaked in the late 16th and early 17th centuries, but was in decline by the late 17th and early 18th centuries. By the 19th century, it was moribund as the right whale was nearly extinct and the bowhead whale was decimated.\n\nThere is a document, a bill, which states in the year 670 a delivery of 40 \"moyos\" (casks of 250 liters) of \"aceite de ballena\" (whale oil) or \"grasa de ballena\" (whale blubber) was made from Bayonne to the abbey of Jumièges, between Le Havre and Rouen, for its use in illumination. The authors that assessed this document suggest for such a request to be made by such a distant monastery that Basque whaling must have been well known – although the oil or blubber easily could have come from a stranded whale whose products were usurped by the church.\n\nAnother author contends that the first mention of the use of whales by the Basques came in 1059, in which year a measure was passed to concentrate whale meat in the market of Bayonne. By the year 1150 whaling had spread to the Basque provinces of Spain. In this year King Sancho the Wise of Navarre (r. 1150–94) granted San Sebastián certain privileges. The grant lists various goods that must be paid duties for warehousing, and among this list \"boquinas-barbas de ballenas\" or plates of whalebone (baleen) held a prominent place. By 1190, whaling had spread to Santander. In 1203, Alfonso VIII of Castile gave Hondarribia the same privileges that had been given to San Sebastian. In 1204, these privileges were extended to Mutriku and Getaria. Similar privileges were given to Zarautz by Ferdinand III of Castile in a royal order dated at Burgos 28 September 1237. This document also states that \"in accordance with custom, the King should have a slice of each whale, along the backbone, from the head to the tail\". Whaling also spread to Asturias (1232) and finally to Galicia (1371). \nUp to 49 ports had whaling establishments along the coast from the French Basque country to Cape Finisterre. The principal target of the trade was what the French Basques called \"sarde\". It was later called the Biscayan right whale (\"Balaena biscayensis\"), and is now known as the North Atlantic right whale (\"Eubalaena glacialis\"). It was caught during its migration from the months of October–November to February–March, with peak catching probably occurring in January. They may have also hunted the gray whale (\"Eschrichtius robustus\"), which existed in the North Atlantic until at least the early 18th century. Bryant suggests that if gray whales inhabited coastal waters like they do today in the North Pacific they would have been likely targets for Basque whalers, perhaps even more so then the North Atlantic right whale – although most contemporary illustrations and skeletal remains from catches were of the latter species. They may have also caught the occasional sperm whale (\"Physeter macrocephalus\"), as remains of this species were found in the old buildings used to try out the blubber into oil.\n\nThe whales were spotted by full-time look-outs from stone watchtowers (known as \"vigías\") situated on headlands or high up on mountains overlooking the harbor, which limited the hunting area to several miles around the port. The remains of these vigías reportedly exist on Talaya mendi (\"Look-out mountain\") above Zarautz and on Whale Hill in Ulia, San Sebastian, while the point on which the vigía in Biarritz was once situated is now the site of a lighthouse, the Pointe Saint-Martin Light (est. 1834). \nWhen the spout of a whale was sighted, the watchman alerted the men by burning some straw, beating a drum, ringing a bell or waving a flag. Once alerted, men launched small rowing boats from the beach, or, if the shoreline was steep, the boats were held by a capstan and launched by releasing the rope attached to the boats. The whale was struck with a two-flued harpoon (as shown in the seal of Hondarribia, dated 1297), lanced, and killed. A larger boat manned by ten men towed the carcass ashore, waiting for high tide to beach the whale, where it was flensed. The blubber was then brought to a boiling house where it was rendered into oil.\n\nAccording to the Laws of Oléron the whalemen of Biarritz, Saint-Jean-de-Luz, and the rest of the French Basque country were exempt from taxation, although they voluntarily gave the whales' tongues to the church as a gift. It wasn't until the kings of England, acting as the Dukes of Guyenne, that charges began to be enacted against them. In 1197, the future King John of England (r. 1199–1216) gave Vital de Biole and his heirs and successors the right to levy a tax of 50 angevin livres on the first two whales taken annually at Biarritz, in exchange for the rent of the fishery at Guernsey. In 1257, William Lavielle gave the bishop and chapter of Bayonne a tithe of the whales caught by the men of the same port. This was paid until 1498. In 1261, an act of the Abbey of Honce announced, as a continuation of the tradition of giving the tongue as a gift to the church, a tithe was to be paid on the whales landed at Bayonne. Under a 1324 edict known as \"De Praerogativa Regis\" (The Royal Prerogative), Edward II (r. 1307–27) collected a duty on the whales caught in British waters, which included the French Basque coast. His successor, Edward III (r. 1327–77), continued this tradition by collecting a £6 tax for each whale taken and landed at Biarritz. In 1338, this was relinquished to Peter de Puyanne, admiral of the English fleet stationed at Bayonne. \nIn Lekeitio, the first document to mention the use of whales in its archives, dated 11 September 1381, states that the whalebone procured in that port would be divided into three parts, with \"two for repairing the boat-harbour, and the third for the fabric of the church.\" A document of 1608 repeats this order. A similar order, dated 20 November 1474, said that half the value of each whale caught from Getaria should be given towards the repair of the church and boat-harbor. It was also custom in Getaria to give the first whale of the season to the King, half of which he returned. San Sebastián, in continuing an ancient custom, gave the whalebone to the Cofradia (brotherhood) of San Pedro.\n\nThe trade had reached such importance in the Basque provinces during this time that several towns and villages depicted whales or whaling scenes on their seals and coat-of-arms. This practice included Bermeo (dated 1351), Castro Urdiales (currently outside the Basque region), Hondarribia (1297), Getaria, Lekeitio, Mutriku (1507, 1562), and Ondarroa in Spain; and Biarritz, Guéthary, and Hendaye in France. Whaling was important enough that laws were passed in 1521 and 1530, barring foreign (re. French) whalers from operating off the Spanish coast, while in 1619 and 1649, foreign whale products could not be sold in Spanish markets.\n\nThe industry in the French Basque region never reached the importance it did in the Spanish provinces. Few towns participated and only a small number of whales were probably taken. From the number of extant documents and written references Aguilar (1986) surmised that French Basque whaling peaked in the second half of the 13th century, and subsequently declined. Although whaling as a commercial activity had ended by 1567, some right whales were taken as late as 1688. For the Spanish Basque region (Biscay and Gipuzkoa) the peak was reached in the second half of the 16th century, but as early as the end of the same century it was in decline. Subsequently, an increase in whaling activity appears to have occurred in Cantabria, Asturias, and Galicia in the first half of the 17th century. Here the Basques hired seasonal \"land factories\" (whaling stations), particularly in Galicia – the Galicians themselves were never whalers, they only built these installations so they could rent them out on an annual basis to the Basques. The peak was short-lived. By the second half of the 17th century whaling in these areas was in general decline. The War of the Spanish Succession (1701–14) sounded the death knell for whaling in the Bay of Biscay, with the trade ceasing altogether in Cantabria (1720), Asturias (1722), and Galicia (1720). It only continued in the Spanish Basque region, where it barely survived.\n\nThe total number of right whales taken by the Basques in the Bay of Biscay is unknown, as serial catch statistics weren't compiled until the 16th century. Incomplete catch statistics for Lekeitio from 1517 to 1662 show a total catch of 68 whales, an average of two-and-a-half a year. The most were caught in 1536 and 1538, when six were taken in each year. In 1543, whalemen from Lekeitio injured a whale, but it was captured by the men of Mutriku, resulting in the whale being divided between the two towns. The same year a mother-calf pair were caught. On 24 February 1546, a whale was reportedly killed in front of St. Nicholas Island. In 1611, two small whales were killed by the men of Lekeitio and Ondarroa, which resulted in a lawsuit. Similar records exist for Zarautz and Getaria. Fifty-five whales were caught from Zarautz between 1637 and 1801, and eighteen from Getaria between 1699 and 1789. \nAlthough whaling in the Basque regions was carried out as a cooperative enterprise among all the fishermen of a town, only the watchmen received a salary while there was no whaling. With such a low economic investment, \"profits from a single whale would have been enormous, since their value was very high in those days.\" In such circumstances a catch of one whale every two or three years for each port may have kept the trade alive. Coming to a conclusion on the number of whales caught along the entire coast in a single year, as Aguilar has noted, is a more difficult matter. Even though 49 ports have been identified as whaling settlements, they didn't all participate in the trade at the same time, as it is known that some ports only hunted whales for a short period of time. Also, no details exist of the operations of small galleons that caught whales in the Bay of Biscay – especially off Galicia – without a station ashore. Aguilar suggests the total yearly catch may not have exceeded \"some dozens, possibly reaching one hundred or thereabouts.\"\n\nDespite the seemingly low annual harvest, two factors must be taken into consideration when discussing the decline and later (nearly) complete disappearance of right whales in the region: one, the preference of Basque whalers to target mother-calf pairs; and two, exploitation of the species outside the Bay of Biscay.\nThe Basque whalemen directed most of their attention to attacking calves, given they were easily captured and, when struck, allowed them to approach the mother, who came to its aid, only to be killed herself. To encourage such methods, the harpooner and crew that wounded the calf first was rewarded a greater share of the profits. Of the 86 whales caught from Getaria and Lekeitio, up to 22% were calves. Such hunting methods would have had \"detrimental consequences\" for the species. The second factor may have been even more devastating to right whales, given the stock identify of this species is unknown. There may have been a large population extending throughout the North Atlantic, meaning a single population would have been taken in several areas at the same time, as this species was the main target of operations in New England, New York, Iceland, Northern Norway, and elsewhere from the early 17th century onwards. It was once thought that this species was also the main target (or at least represented half the catch) in southern Labrador, but it now appears as though bowhead whales (\"Balaena mysticetus\") were the primary targets.\n\nIf a small, discrete stock had existed in the Bay of Biscay, then localized hunting by the Basques may have led to its over-exploitation and subsequent (near) disappearance there. A third possibility, perhaps the most plausible, would be that there are (or were) two populations, one in the western North Atlantic and the other in the eastern North Atlantic. Such a view would conform well with the mainly coastal distribution of right whales in the western North Atlantic today. Still, this possibility would result in the harvest of right whales not only in the Bay of Biscay, but in Iceland, Northern Norway, and the rest of Europe, which may have been enough to severely deplete this supposed stock.\n\nOnly four whales were reportedly caught in the Bay of Biscay in the 19th century, and at least one more was struck but lost and another chased unsuccessfully. The first was caught off Hondarribia in 1805, the second off San Sebastian in 1854, the third off Getaria-Zarautz in 1878, and the last off San Sebastian in 1893. In January 1854, three whales (said to be a mother and her two calves) entered the bay of San Sebastian. Only one of the calves was caught. The whale caught off Getaria-Zarautz was taken on 11 February. Several boats were sent out of both ports, along with one from Orio. The whale was struck with a harpoon from Getaria, but the line belonged to Zarautz. This resulted in a lawsuit, which led to the whale being left to rot ashore. The unpleasant smell of the decomposing carcass led to it being blown up. In 1844, a whale was struck off Zarautz, but, after being towed for six hours, the line was broken, and the whale was lost with two harpoons and three lances in its body. Another whale was seen off Getaria early in the morning on 25 July 1850, but the harpooner missed his mark, and the whale swam away to the northwest. On 14 May 1901, a 12 m (39 ft) right whale was killed by fishermen using dynamite off the town of Orio, an event reflected in a folk poem popularized by singer-songwriter Benito Lertxundi. A local festival representing this catch have been held on 5 year intervals. Only a few more sightings of right whales were made in the area, the last in 1977, when the crew of a Spanish whale catcher sighted one at about 43° N and 10° 30' W.\n\nIn his \"History of Brittany\" (1582), the French jurist and historian Bertrand d'Argentré (1519–1590) was the first (as far as we currently know) to make the claim that the Basques, Bretons, and Normans were the first to reach the New World \"before any other people\". The Bordeaux jurist Etienne de Cleirac (1647) made a similar claim, stating that the French Basques, in pursuing whales across the North Atlantic, discovered North America a century before Columbus. The Belgian cetologist Pierre-Joseph van Beneden (1878, 1892) repeated such assertions by saying that the Basques, in the year 1372, found the number of whales to increase on approach of the Newfoundland Banks.\n\nThe first undisputed presence of Basque whaling expeditions in the New World was in the second quarter of the 16th century. It appears to have been the French Basques, following the lead of Breton cod-fishermen that reported finding rich whaling grounds in \"Terranova\" (Newfoundland and Labrador). The Basques called the area they frequented \"Grandbaya\" (Grand Bay), today known as the Strait of Belle Isle, which separates Newfoundland from southern Labrador. Their initial voyages to this area were mixed cod and whaling ventures. Instead of returning home with whale oil, they brought back whale meat in brine. The French Basque ship \"La Catherine d'Urtubie\" made the first known voyage involving whale products in 1530, when she supposedly returned with 4,500 dried and cured cod, as well as twelve barrels of whale meat \"without flippers or tail\" (a phrase for whale meat in brine). After a period of development, expeditions were sent purely aimed at obtaining whale oil. The first establishments for processing whale oil in southern Labrador may have been built in the late 1530s, although it wasn't until 1548 that notarial documents confirm this.\n\nBy the 1540s, when the Spanish Basques began sending whaling expeditions to Terranova, the ventures were no longer experimental, but a \"resounding financial success from their inception.\" By the end of the decade they were delivering large cargoes of whale oil to Bristol, London, and Flanders. A large market existed for \"lumera\", as whale oil used for lighting was called. \"Sain\" or \"grasa de ballena\" was also used (by mixing it with tar and oakum) for caulking ships, as well as in the textile industry. Ambroise Paré (1510–90), who visited Bayonne when King Charles IX (r. 1560–74) was there in 1564, said they used the baleen to \"make farthingales, stays for women, knife-handles, and many other things\".\n\nMost documents dealing with whaling in Terranova concern the years 1548 to 1588, with the largest quantity dealing with the harbor of Red Bay or \"Less Buttes\" – both names in reference to the red granite cliffs of the region. The references include acts of piracy in the 1550s, the loss of a ship in 1565, a disastrous wintering in 1576–77, and, on Christmas Eve 1584, a will written for a dying Basque, Joanes de Echaniz; the first known Canadian will. The last overwintering in Red Bay was made in 1603. During their onshore stays, the whalers developed relations with American natives that led to the establishment of a purpose-specific language with both American native and Basque elements.\n\nIn 1978, the wreck of a ship was found in Red Bay. She is believed to be the Spanish Basque galleon \"San Juan\", a three-masted, 27.1 m (90 ft) long, 250–300-ton vessel that was lost in 1565. \"San Juan\", carrying a cargo of nearly 1,000 barrels of whale oil, was wrecked by an autumn storm. She grounded stern first on the northern side of Saddle Island, struck the bottom several times and split her keel open before sinking 30 yards from shore. Her captain, Joanes de Portu, and crew were able to save the sails, rigging, some provisions, and about half the whale oil. The crew took to the boats and hailed another ship for a ride back to Spain. The following year de Portu salvaged more of the wreck before she finally sank out of sight. Three more wrecks have been found in Red Bay, the last in 2004. The charred hull fragments of the second ship, found in 1983, strongly suggest the ship sank because of a fire.\n\nTwo species of whale were hunted in southern Labrador, the North Atlantic right whale and the bowhead whale. The former were taken during the \"early\" season in the summer, while the latter was caught from the fall to early winter (October–January). DNA analysis of the old bones after a comprehensive search of Basque whaling ports from the 16th to the 17th century, in the Strait of Belle Isle and Gulf of St. Lawrence found that the right whale was by then less than 1% of the whales taken. During the peak of Terranova whaling (1560s–1580s) the Spanish Basques used well-armed galleons of up to 600–700 tons, while the French Basques usually fitted out smaller vessels. A 450-ton Basque ship carrying 100 or more men required about 300 hogsheads of cider and wine and 300–400 quintals of ship's biscuit, as well as other dry provisions. In Labrador the men subsisted mainly on locally caught cod and salmon, as well as the occasional caribou or wild duck. This diet was supplemented with dried peas, beans, chickpeas, olive oil, mustard seed, and bacon. Before leaving for Terranova sometime in the months of May or June, a priest went aboard the ships to bless them and say a special mass for the success of the expeditions. Sailing across the stormy North Atlantic must have been a very unpleasant experience for the crew of up to 130 men and boys, as they slept on the hard decks or filthy, vermin-invested straw palliasses. Halfway there the smell of refuse in the bilge would have been unbearable. After a voyage of two months the ships would anchor in one of the twelve harbors on the southern shore of Labrador and eastern Quebec. Archaeological evidence has been found for ten of these harbors – Middle Bay and Blanc-Sablon in Quebec, and Schooner Cove, West St. Modeste, East St. Modeste, Carrol Cove, Red Bay, Chateau Bay, Pleasure Harbour, and Cape Charles in southern Labrador. Once the ice had disappeared the ships entered the harbors where the coopers went ashore and erected their dwellings and workshops, while most of the crew lived aboard ship. The boys were also sent ashore to chop wood and prepare meals.\n\nIn these bays the men constructed temporary whaling stations to process the whale blubber into oil. The tryworks were built close to the shore facing the harbor. They consisted of up to seven or eight fireboxes usually made of local granite – but on occasion containing imported sandstone or limestone ballast rock – backed by a heavy stone wall and common side walls. More fireboxes were built than were used at once, as the local granite quickly deteriorated after exposure to a wood fire. It appears that once a firebox had lost its usefulness, the men merely shifted the trypot to a \"spare\" firebox to continue processing the oil. Behind the main wall were wooden platforms where men would ladle the oil from the trypots into vessels filled with cold water used to cool and purify the oil. The foundations of the tryworks were mortared with local or imported fine clay and sheltered by a roof of red ceramic tiles supported by heavily framed wooden posts dug into the ground.\n\nOn a small terrace overlooking the tryworks was a substantial tile-roofed building, the cooperage. While the cooper lived comfortably in this structure other crew members used smaller structures framed with wood and covered with cloth and baleen as sleeping quarters. Dozens of these dwellings have been found among the bedrock outcrops on Saddle Island. Here hearths were built in small niches in the rock that sheltered the men from the wind.\n\nIn 1982, archaeologists found a whaler's cemetery on the extreme eastern side of Saddle Island. Four subsequent summers of excavations revealed that it contained the remains of more than 60 graves, consisting of more than 140 individuals, all adult males in their early 20s to early 40s, with the exception of two twelve-year-olds. One burial contained the remains of a wool shirt and a pair of breeches – the former of which having been dyed with madder and the latter with indigo. The breeches were of thick, heavily teaseled wool, gathered at the waist and cut full at the hips, tapered to a tight fit at the knees, certainly making their owners warm and comfortable in the coastal tundra environment they had to live and work in, where the highest temperature (reached in August) was only 50 °F (10 °C). Another costume, recovered outside the cemetery, consisted of \"a white knitted wool cap, an inner shirt and outer shirt or jacket made from white wool with a light brown plaid pattern, dark brown breeches, tailored stockings, and vegetable-tanned leather shoes.\" Unlike the other pair of breeches, these were pleated at the waist and left open and baggy at the knees.\n\nAt least sixteen stations have been found in Red Bay, eight on the northern side of the 3,000 m (3/5 mile) long Saddle Island at the entrance of the bay; seven on the mainland; and one on tiny Penney Island within the bay. During the peak of the trade nearly 1,000 men could be found working in and around Red Bay, while as many as eleven ships resorted to this harbor in 1575, alone. Three vigías were built on Saddle Island, one on the western side of the island near or on the present site of a lighthouse, the second on the eastern side at the top of a hill over 30 m (100 ft) in elevation, and the third on its eastern shore. There was also one placed on a 10 m (33 ft) high hill on the smaller Twin Island to the east.\n\nWhen a 8 m (26 ft) long whale was sighted, chalupas (chaloupes in French, and later shallops in English) were sent out, each manned by a steersman, five oarsmen, and a harpooner. The whale was harpooned and forced to tow a wooden drogue or drag, which was used to tire the whale. Once exhausted, the whale was lanced and killed. If darkness fell upon the crews before they returned, those ashore would light signal fires at the vigías to guild them back to the station. The whales were brought alongside a wharf or cutting stage, where they were flensed. The blubber was tried out, cooled, and poured into barricas – casks of oak that held 55 gallons of oil. These casks were towed out to the ship by a boat, where they were stored in the hold. When a full cargo had been obtained, either during the right whale season, or, more often during the later bowhead season, many of the larger ships sailed to Pasaia to discharge their cargoes; they also fitted out of the same port. Pasaia was preferred by both French and Spanish Basques because of its deep-water entrance and the excellent shelter it provided from Biscay storms.\n\nAn intensive era of whaling began when peace was established after the Valois marriage (1572). An average of fifteen ships was sent to Terranova each year, with twenty being sent during the peak years. Aguilar (1986), referring to the number of both Spanish and French Basque ships, said twenty-thirty galleons would seem fairly accurate. Thomas Cano (1611) said more than 200 ships were sent to Terranova, although this is an obvious exaggeration.\n\nShips from Red Bay alone sent 6,000–9,000 barrels of oil to Europe every year during the peak of exploitation, while a further 8,000 or 9,000 barrels was produced in St. Modeste, Chateau Bay, and other harbors. Each ship averaged 1,000 barrels a season, a cargo that rivaled the Spanish galleons bringing back treasure from the Caribbean for sheer monetary value. So, on average, a minimum of 15,000 barrels of oil would have been produced each year, which would have involved a catch of at least 300 whales, or twenty per ship.\nBy the 1580s, whaling was in decline, as ships returned to port half empty. This decade also coincided with the period when the king needed Spanish Basque ships for his armadas. The trade was particularly affected in 1586, 1587, and 1588, when Spanish Basque ships and sailors were detained in preparation for the 1588 armada against England. The threat of such detentions continued to undermine Spanish Basque whaling into the 1590s and early 1600s. Although whale stocks may have had a chance to increase in the 1590s and early 1600s with the diminution of the Spanish Basque fleet, it appears the French Basques may have taken up the slack of their counterparts of northeastern Spain. In April 1602, Saint-Jean-de-Luz alone sent seven ships to carry out whaling in Terranova. Other factors, such as attacks by hostile Inuit (which, according to parish records, resulted in at least three instances of fatalities between 1575 and 1618), piratical attacks by the English and Dutch, and the opening of the Spitsbergen fishery (see below) may have also played a part in the decline.\n\nBy 1632, they were finding it safer to hunt for whales out of the establishments at \"Côte-Nord\", such as Mingan and Escoumins and even as far south as Tadoussac at the mouth of the Saguenay River. Despite this, Spanish Basque expeditions continued to be sent to Labrador, with voyages documented in 1622, 1624–27, 1629–30, 1632, and later. As late as 1681 the port of Pasaia alone sent twelve whaling galleons to Terranova. The end came in 1697, when the Basques (apparently only the Spanish Basques) were prevented from sending out whaling expeditions to Terranova, while the Treaty of Utrecht (1713) finally expelled them from the Gulf of St. Lawrence. Later the French Basques still sent whaling expeditions to Terranova, often basing them at Louisbourg.\n\nAs early as the 14th century, Basque whalemen may have made \"seasonal trips\" to southern Ireland and the English Channel – where they undoubtedly targeted right whales. These regions became particularly well-known to them by the 16th century. By the first decade of the 17th century, Basque whaling had reached Brazil, not on its own initiative, but on that of the colonial government. With imports of whale oil from the Basque region and Cape Verde not meeting the demands of the expanding colonial sugar industry, they saw a solution in the humpback (\"Megaptera novaeangliae\") and southern right whales (\"Eubalaena australis\") that inhabited their coastal waters. Lacking the technical know-how to hunt them, they sought help abroad. In 1602, two Basque whalers accompanied Diogo Botelho, the newly appointed governor general of Brazil, to the colonial capital of Bahia de Todos os Santos. It was their crews that introduced commercial whaling to colonial Brazil. Each year for nearly a decade Basque ships made runs from Biscay to Brazil, where the oil they produced supplied sugar mills (engenhos) with a dependable source of fuel for nocturnal grinding, as well as oil for lubricating machinery and caulking boats and ships. This ended in 1610, when one of the Basque captains tried to smuggle Brazilwood out of the country. He was discovered and imprisoned – as were his men. The same year the crown declared whaling to be a royal monopoly.\n\nOne author, repeating an oft-referenced claim, contends that twenty Basque whaleships were sighted by the western tip of Iceland off Grunderfjord (Grundarfjörður) in 1412. This claim has been revealed to be false. The Icelandic historian Trausti Einarsson (1987) has discovered that this was a reference to twenty \"foreign\" ships fishing off Iceland, as the English and other nations were fishing for cod there by the early 15th century.\n\nThe first mention of Basque whaling in Iceland comes from the early 17th century. Two Icelandic annals state that Basques whalers were active around the Westfjords (the northwestern peninsula of Iceland) in 1610. A third annal says three Basque ships were whaling from Strandir in 1608, while another source says that a Spanish Basque ship was whaling around Strandir in 1613 – which would be consistent with an illustration on an early 18th-century map that says: \"Anno 1613 by de Biscayers beseylt.\" The ship was directed to a suitable harbor in Steingrímsfjörðer. In this harbor is where the ship presumably processed its catch of seventeen whales – probably North Atlantic right whales.\n\nIt was probably this ship's excellent haul, as well as the barring of Basque ships from Spitsbergen by the English the same year (see below), that resulted in 26 Basque ships being sent to Iceland in 1614. Only ten reached Iceland, as the rest had been scattered or robbed by the English. Most of the Spanish Basque ships spent the summer in Steingrímsfjörðer, while a few of the French Basque were situated to the north. In 1615, there were reported to be sixteen ships by Strandir. Only four stayed the summer to hunt whales from Reykjafjörður in Strandir, the rest having departed for Russia. In September, three of the ships (under the commands of Martinus de Billafranca, Pedro de Aguirre, and Stephan de Tellaria), while preparing to leave, were sunk by the combination of a sudden storm and drift ice off the coast of Reykjafjörður. Of the 82 whalers that came ashore, thirteen were killed while spending the night at a seasonal fishing station. Another eighteen were killed at Ísafjarðardjúp in a campaign brought forth by the local sheriff, Ari Magnússon, to protect the livelihood of the inhabitants. No foreign whalers are mentioned whaling off Iceland nearly a decade after the massacre.\n\nBasque whaling in Iceland continued until at least the early 18th century, but by the second half of the 17th century, Icelandic annals mentioned French and Dutch whalers more often they did the Spanish Basques. In 1675–76, 1680, and 1683 one or more ships from the French Basque ports of Saint-Jean-de-Luz and Ciboure hunted whales off Iceland. They resorted to Iceland during the latter part of the season after having finished whaling off the eastern coast of Greenland. The last time whalers were mentioned ashore was in 1712, when Spanish Basque ships attempted to trade in Grundarfjörður but were stopped by a lawman. Foreign whalers are only mentioned sporadically in the annals for the rest of the century.\n\nDuring century and a half of Basque whaling, a basic language (a pidgin) known to have been in use in Iceland was developed in order to allow for communication between the Basque whalers and other traders from different nations of the north Atlantic.\n\nIt was in the northeastern North Atlantic that the Basques witnessed the loss of their near monopoly on the trade beginning in the early 17th century. Their men were recruited for English (1611), Dutch (1613), northern French (1613), and Danish (1617) whaling expeditions to Spitsbergen, where they hunted the bowhead whale. The first was caught on 12 June 1611 (Old-Style) by one of the six Basque whalemen recruited from the town of Saint-Jean-de-Luz. When the merchants of San Sebastian learned of this new whaling ground they were eager to expand their operations to that distant corner of the Arctic. The next year, 1612, they dispatched a single ship under the command of Juan de Erauso and piloted by the Englishman Nicholas Woodcock, a former employee of the Muscovy Company of London who had made two prior voyages to Spitsbergen (1610–11). Upon reaching Spitsbergen they discovered such an abundance of whales \"that for a stretch of sixty leagues along the coast the sea was obscured.\" The Englishman Thomas Edge, master of the \"Sea Horse\" (180 tons), one of the two ships sent by the Muscovy Company to Spitsbergen, spoke with Woodcock while surveying the coast in a pinnace, reporting that the Basque ship had \"made a full Voyage in Green-harbour\", or Grønfjorden, on the south side of Isfjorden. On his return Woodcock spent sixteen months in the Gatehouse and Tower for leading a foreign vessel into an \"English preserve\". The expedition returned to Spain \"with [such] glowing reports of the wealth of the fishery\" that a patent was secured from the Viceroy of Navarre, Don Alonso de Idiáquez, conde de Aramayona. Its report led others to send out a fleet of whaleships to Spitsbergen in 1613, including the ports of Holland, northern France, and the Basque provinces. San Sebastian sent out a dozen ships (one of them being the ship Woodcock had piloted the previous year), while Saint-Jean-de-Luz sent out three or four.\n\nOnly one of the ships of Saint-Jean-de-Luz was allowed to fish in Spitsbergen by the Muscovy Company, while all the others went up to try and break their monopoly. One of the Saint-Jean-de-Luz ships, the \"Grace-de-Dieu\" (700–800 tons), under Mignet de Haristiguy, sailed into \"Schoonhoven\" (modern Recherche Fjord), Bellsund on 16 June (OS), where they found the Dutchmen Willem Cornelisz. van Muyden. The Dutch cartographer Hessel Gerritsz (1613) says they agreed to fish together, and drive off any other vessels that came into their harbor, as they later did to a small ship of Saint-Jean-de-Luz. They were discovered by the English on 11 July (OS). Van Muyden was detained; while the great ship of Saint-Jean-de-Luz agreed to give half the oil they made to the English. The smaller vessel from Saint-Jean-de-Luz previously forbidden to fish by Van Muyden also agreed to give some of the oil they made to the English. Another little pinnace of Saint-Jean-de-Luz was said to be behind Eders Island in the mouth of \"Zaandam Bay\" (Van Keulenfjorden).\n\nThe ships of San Sebastian resorted to several bays on the west coast. The first was found by the English in Grønfjorden on 9 June (OS). Four were found in \"Boules Bay\" (Goeshaven), Hornsund on 13 June (OS), and another in Isfjorden on 19 June (OS). In all, the English found at least seven of the ships from San Sebastian, seizing their baleen and oil and taking their whaling gear and equipment before sending them home. The remaining five, unable to defend themselves against such encroachments, apparently left Spitsbergen upon learning they would share the same fate as their comrades if discovered by the English fleet. The San Sebastian merchants claimed a total loss of more than 200,000 ducats, threatening to seize the property of English merchants residing in San Sebastian. Fearing not only for their goods but for their lives as well, many of the English merchants fled to Bilbao, while others \"dared not stir out of their houses lest they should be killed.\" Formal protests were filed and diplomatic negotiations held, but nothing ever came of them. The Spanish ambassador to England, Diego Sarmiento de Acuña, conde de Gondomar, spoke with King James I about the matter, but was never able to receive satisfaction. Aguilar (1986), citing two secondary sources (Fernandez Duro 1881; Ciriquiain 1979) and one primary source (Colección Vargas Ponce, Museo Naval (Madrid), 1613), states that Spanish Basque whaling had reached the \"northernmost\" coast of Greenland by 1613. Given the fact this is impossible (the northernmost coast of Greenland is inaccessible due to ice) and that the name Greenland was often applied to Spitsbergen, it seems likely that these sources were in reference to the vessels sent to Spitsbergen the same year.\n\nIn 1614, a Basque ship was sighted by the English off Magdalenefjorden, and in 1615, a merchant in San Sebastian sent two ships from Bordeaux, \"L’ Estinotte\" and \"Le Pellecan\", under the commands of Jean de Lasso and Jean de Gramont, to Spitsbergen, but they were ordered away by the Dutch.\n\nIn 1623, the Dane Johan Braem, in cooperation with Joanis de Haraneder of Saint-Jean-de-Luz and Miguel de Larralde of Ciboure, sent out two ships, \"La Joana\" and \"La Maria\", to Spitsbergen. They sailed to Mauritius Bay and began to take out the whaling gear from the Danish huts at Smeerenburg, the main Dutch whaling complex on Amsterdam Island, on the northwest coast of Spitsbergen. They were discovered by the Dutch commander Cornelis Ys, and were ordered away by a threat of violence. In 1625, Braem again chartered two Basque ships and sent them to Spitsbergen. The few Dutch ships at Smeerenburg that season begrudgingly let them stay. With the Danish huts having been demolished and its shallops and other gear stolen by the Dutch and English the previous season, the Basque ships waited for the Dutch to leave in August and used their station and gear instead.\n\nIn 1632, Braem chartered four ships, including two from Saint-Jean-de-Luz – the \"Ste Marie\", under Joannis de Segaroia, and \"Le Pigeon Blanc\" (\"The White Pigeon\"), under Peter Piasion (or Balcon). The two ships sailed to the newly built Danish station in \"Københavens Bay\" (modern Kobbefjorden, on the west coast of Danes Island). Both were ordered away by the admiral of the Dutch whaling fleet, J. J. Duynkercker. They sailed to the North Cape, where they waited for the Dutch fleet at Jan Mayen to sail home at the end of August. They landed at one of the two Dutch stations there and plundered it, breaking up storehouses and huts, ruining utensils, and destroying shallops and setting them adrift – in all stealing 600 casks of oil and 200,000 lbs of baleen. With fully laden ships they sailed back to France, selling their plunder at Rouen and elsewhere for a handsome profit.\n\nUnable to gain a foothold at Spitsbergen, the Basques ventured offshore. Even here they met with trouble. In July 1637, the \"Fleur\", of Ciboure, under Dominique Daguerre, who had been whaling between 73° and 76° N, made the mistake of straying as far north as 78° N, where he encountered the Danish man-of-war \"De To Løver\" (\"The Two Lions\"), under Corfits Ulfeldt. Ulfeldt, who had been sent to Spitsbergen to protect Danish interests, led Daguerre to Kobbefjorden, where he seized 400 barrels of blubber and 100 quintals of baleen.\n\nIn Finnmark (Northern Norway) the Basques received the same undue treatment they had met with in Spitsbergen and Iceland, this time from the Dano-Norwegian crown. Here, they hunted the \"nordkaper\" or North Atlantic right whale. One of the first may have been a Spanish Basque whaleship that was said to have been at Kjelvik, Magerøya, in 1614. This may have been the same \"Biscayan\" ship that was forced to pay a fee of twenty \"oxheads\" of whale oil and 100 Spanish \"Reales\" to the sheriff at Vardø. The following year, 1615, a vessel from Mutriku went to Northern Norway, as well as two from San Sebastian and two from the French Basque region. The Dano-Norwegian crown, on hearing of unlicensed whalers fishing in their waters, sent a naval expedition to Northern Norway, confiscating 600 oxheads of oil from the San Sebastian ships and seizing one of the French Basques, confiscating 500 oxheads of oil from them, and sending the other vessel home. The presence of Basque whalers in these waters continued to be recorded into the 1620s. They may have sent expeditions to Northern Norway as late as 1688–90, as secondary literature claims that a whaleship out of San Sebastián was present at Vannfjord, Magerøya during those seasons.\n\nIn order to avoid having to pay fines to the sovereigns of northern lands (e.g. Spitsbergen, Finnmark), the Basques began using ship-board tryworks to process blubber into oil. This technique was introduced in 1635. Whales could now be caught and processed offshore. Off Northern Norway, French Basque whaleships reported hunted whales \"à flot\", in other words, offshore – for example, in 1659. Friderich Martens, who served as surgeon aboard a German whaleship in 1671, claimed that the \"Frenchman (Basques) try up their train-oyl in their ships and by that means many ships are burnt at Spitzbergen; and this was the occasion of the burning of two ships in my time\".\n\nIn the northeastern North Atlantic the Spanish Basques used vessels of smaller tonnage than those that took part in the Terranova voyages, which resulted in a somewhat lower haul per ship, partly because of their smaller overall length and partly because of the space the tryworks occupied. The French Basques employed 250-ton frigates (r. 100–350 tons) with reinforced stem-posts and timbers in order to withstand the rigors of whaling in the West Ice - the area between eastern Greenland and Spitsbergen. They were also fitted with six to fourteen cannons, as France and Holland were often at war during this period. Many of the French Basque ships, instead of returning to Saint-Jean-de-Luz, Ciboure, or Bayonne (where they would have to transship their oil and bone), went into Le Havre or Honfleur in Normandy, where a large percentage of the whale oil market existed. Poor catches in the 1680s, and the War of the League of Augsburg (1688–97) caused a dramatic decline in French Basque whaling. By the early 18th century, only one or two vessels were left in the trade.\n\nFollowing the War of Spanish Succession, the French Basque fishery began to show signs of recovery. Perhaps because of the previous war, few experienced seaman were available for the trade, so they had to recruit Spanish Basques for their voyages. There were said to be twenty ships \"from the ports in the Bay of Biscay\" among the fleet of foreign whalers sent to the Davis Strait and the West Ice in 1721. Towards 1730 a \"new period of prosperity\" was reached with the fitting out of more than 30 whalers annually. This was followed by a rapid decline. The last Basque (French or Spanish) whaling expeditions were sent prior to the outbreak of the Seven Years' War (1756–63). Several attempts were made to revive the trade, but they were unsuccessful.\n"}
{"id": "495664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=495664", "title": "Information overload", "text": "Information overload\n\nInformation overload (also known as infobesity, infoxication, information overload, and information explosion) is a term used to describe the difficulty of understanding an issue and effectively making decisions when one has too much information about that issue. Generally, the term is associated with the excessive quantity of daily information. Information overload most likely originated from information theory, which are studies in the storage, preservation, communication, compression, and extraction of information. The term, information overload, was first used in Bertram Gross' 1964 book, \"The Managing of Organizations,\" and it was further popularized by Alvin Toffler in his bestselling 1970 book \"Future Shock.\" Speier et al. (1999) stated:\n\nInformation overload occurs when the amount of input to a system exceeds its processing capacity. Decision makers have fairly limited cognitive processing capacity. Consequently, when information overload occurs, it is likely that a reduction in decision quality will occur.A newer definition of information overload focuses on time and resource aspects:Information overload is a state in which a decision maker faces a set of information (i.e., an information load with informational characteristics such as an amount, a complexity, and a level of redundancy, contradiction and inconsistency) comprising the accumulation of individual informational cues of differing size and complexity that inhibit the decision maker’s ability to optimally determine the best possible decision. The probability of achieving the best possible decision is defined as decision-making performance. The suboptimal use of information is caused by the limitation of scarce individual resources. A scarce resource can be limited individual characteristics (such as serial processing ability, limited short-term memory) or limited task-related equipment (e.g., time to make a decision, budget).\n\nThe advent of modern information technology has been a primary driver of information overload on multiple fronts: in quantity produced, ease of dissemination, and breadth of audience reached. Longstanding technological factors have been further intensified by the rise of social media and the attention economy. In the age of connective digital technologies, informatics, the Internet culture (or the digital culture), information overload is associated with the over-exposure, excessive consumption, and input abundance of information and data.\n\nThe phenomenon of information overload was never novel. Ann Blair notes that while current information overload is linked to digital cultures and technologies, the term itself actually predates modern technologies. Indications of information overload were apparent when humans began collecting manuscripts, collecting, recording, and preserving information. One of the first social scientists to notice the negative effects of information overload was the sociologist Georg Simmel (1858–1918), who hypothesized that the overload of sensations in the modern urban world caused city dwellers to become jaded and interfered with their ability to react to new situations. The social psychologist Stanley Milgram (1933–1984) later used the concept of information overload to explain bystander behavior.\n\nPsychologists have recognized for many years that humans have a limited capacity to store current information in the memory. Psychologist George Armitage Miller was very influential in this regard, proposing that people can process about seven chunks of information at a time. Miller says that under overload conditions, people become confused and are likely to make poorer decisions based on the information they have received as opposed to making informed ones.\n\nA quite early example of the term \"information overload\" can be found in an article by Jacob Jacoby, Donald Speller and Carol Kohn Berning, who conducted an experiment on 192 housewives which was said to confirm the hypothesis that more information about brands would lead to poorer decision making.\n\nLong before that, the concept was introduced by Diderot, although it was not by the term \"information overload\":As long as the centuries continue to unfold, the number of books will grow continually, and one can predict that a time will come when it will be almost as difficult to learn anything from books as from the direct study of the whole universe. It will be almost as convenient to search for some bit of truth concealed in nature as it will be to find it hidden away in an immense multitude of bound volumes.\n— Denis Diderot, \"Encyclopédie\" (1755)\n\nInformation overload has been documented throughout periods where advances in technology have increased a production of information. Renaissance humanists always had a desire to preserve their writings and observations, but humans were only able to record ancient texts by hand because books were expensive and only the privileged and educated populations could afford them. As early as the 3rd or 4th century BC, people regarded information overload with disapproval. Around this time, in Ecclesiastes 12:12, the passage revealed the writer's comment \"of making books there is no end\" and in 1st century AD, Seneca the Elder commented, that \"the abundance of books is distraction\". In 1255, the Dominican Vincent of Beauvais, also commented on the flood of information: “the multitude of books, the shortness of time and the slipperiness of memory.” Similar complaints around the growth of books were also mentioned in China.\n\nThere were also information enthusiasts. The Library of Alexandria was established around 3rd century BCE or 1st century Rome, which introduced acts of preserving historical artifacts. Museums and libraries established universal grounds of preserving the past for the future, but much like books, libraries were only granted with limited access. Swiss scientist Conrad Gessner, who once commented that printing and the increase buildings of libraries were architectures of preservation, and was most likely the first academic who discussed the consequences of information overload as he observed how \"unmanageable\" information came to be after the creation of the printing press. The idea that museums are places store and retrieve information is further noted in Trinh T. Minh-ha's book, \"D-Passage: The Digital Way\", explores the connections between technology, digital arts, and new media. She compares the process of creating a documentary as akin to preserving and recording memories. In the contemporary age of data and information, Trinh further notes that constant data and information collection are rooted on the idea of the \"museumification of things and events.\"\n\nHumans experience an overload in information by excessively copying ancient manuscripts and replicating artifacts, creating libraries and museums that have remained in the present. Around 1453 AD, Johannes Gutenberg invented the printing press and this marked another period of information proliferation. As a result of lowering production costs, generation of printed materials ranging from pamphlets, manuscripts to books were made available to the average person.\n\nFollowing Gutenburg's invention, the introduction of mass printing began in Western Europe. Information overload was often experienced by the affluent, but the circulation of books were becoming rapidly printed and available at a lower cost, allowing the educated to purchase books. Information became recordable, by hand, and could be easily memorized for future storage and accessibility. This era marked a time where inventive methods were established to practice information accumulation. Aside from printing books and passage recording, encyclopedias and alphabetical indexes were introduced, enabling people to save and bookmark information for retrieval. These practices marked both present and future acts of information processing.\n\nBlair notes that while scholars were elated with the number of books available to them, they also later experienced a fatigue with the amount of excessive information that was readily available and overpopulated them. Scholars complained about the abundance of information for a variety of reasons, such as the diminishing quality of text as printers rushed to print manuscripts and the supply of new information being distracting and difficult to manage. Erasmus, one of the many recognized humanists of the 16th century asked, \"Is there anywhere on earth exempt from these swarms of new books?\"\n\nMany grew concerned with the rise of books in Europe, especially in England, France, and Germany. From 1750 to 1800, there was a 150% increase in the production of books. In 1702, jurist and philosopher Christian Thomasius expressed concerns about the overproduction of books, comparing it to an epidemic. Thomasius felt with more books being published, the standards of publishing a book decreased. In 1795, German bookseller and publisher Johann Georg Heinzmann said \"no nation printed as much as the Germans\"and expresses concern about Germans reading ideas and no longer creating original thoughts and ideas.\n\nTo combat information overload, scholars developed their own information records for easier and simply archival access and retrieval. Modern Europe compliers used paper and glue to cut specific notes and passages from a book and pasted them to a new sheet for storage. Carl Linnaeus developed paper slips, often called is botanical paper slips, from 1767 to 1773, to record his observations. Blair argues that these botanical paper slips gave birth to the \"taxonomical system\" that has endured to this present, influencing both the mass inventions of the index card and the library card catalog.\n\nIn his book, \"The Information: A History, A Theory, A Flood,\" published in 2011, author James Gleick, notes that engineers began taking note of the concept of information, quickly associated it in a technical sense: information was both quantifiable and measurable. He discusses how information theory was created to first bridge mathematics, engineering, and computing together, creating an information code between the fields. English speakers from Europe often equated \"computer science\" to \"\"informatique\", \"informatica\", and \"Informatik\".\" This leads to the idea that all information can be saved and stored on computers, even if information experiences entropy. But at the same time, the term information, and its many definitions have changed.\n\nNow in the second half of the 20th century, advances in computer and information technology led to the creation of the Internet.\n\nIn the modern information Age, information overload is experienced as distracting and unmanageable information such as email spam, email notifications, instant messages, Tweets and Facebook updates in the context of the work environment. Social media has resulted in \"social information overload,\" which can occur on sites like Facebook, and technology is changing to serve our social culture.\n\nIn today's society, day-to-day activities increasingly involve the technological world where information technology exacerbates the number of interruptions that occur in the work environment. A 2012 survey by \"McKinsey Global Institute\" found that the average worker spends 28% of work time managing email. Adding this decade's use of the Internet, management may be even more disrupted in their decision making, and may result in more poor decisions. Thus, the \"PIECES\" framework mentions information overload as a potential problem in existing information systems.\n\nAs the world moves into a new era of globalization, an increasing number of people are connecting to the Internet to conduct their own research and are given the ability to produce as well as consume the data accessed on an increasing number of websites. Users are now classified as active users because more people in society are participating in the Digital and Information Age. This flow has created a new life where we are now in danger of becoming dependent on this method of access to information where risks of the perpetuation of misinformation are greatly increased.\n\nIn a 2018 literature review, Roetzel indicates that information overload can be seen as a virus—spreading through (social) media and news networks.\n\nIn recent years, the term \"information overload\" has evolved into phrases such as \"information glut\", \"data smog\", and \"data glut\" (\"Data Smog\", Shenk, 1997). In his abstract, Kazi Mostak Gausul Hoq commented that people often experience an \"information glut\" whenever they struggle with locating information from print, online, or digital sources. What was once a term grounded in cognitive psychology has evolved into a rich metaphor used outside the world of academia.\n\nIn a piece published by \"Slate\", Vaughan Bell argues that \"Worries about information overload are as old as information itself\" because each generation and century will inevitably experience a significant impact with technology. In the 21st century, Frank Furedi describes how an overload in information is metaphorically expressed as a flood, which is an indication that we are being \"drowned\" by the waves of data coming at us. This includes how the human brain continues to process information whether digitally or not. Information Overload can lead to \"information anxiety,\" which is the gap between the information we understand and the information that we think that we must understand. The phenomenon of information overload is connected to the field of information technology (IT). IT corporate management implements training to \"improve the productivity of knowledge workers.\" Ali F. Farhoomand and Don H. Drury note that employees often experience an overload in information whenever they have difficulty absorbing and assimilating the information they receive to efficiently complete a task because they feel burdened, stressed, and overwhelmed.\n\nAt New York's Web 2.0 Expo in 2008, Clay Shirky's speech indicated that information overload in the modern age is a consequence of a deeper problem, which he calls \"filter failure\", where humans continue to overshare information with each other. This is due to the rapid rise of apps and unlimited wireless access. In the modern information age, information overload is experienced as distracting and unmanageable information such as email spam, email notifications, instant messages,Tweets, and Facebook updates in the context of the work environment. Social media has resulted in \"social information overload,\" which can occur on sites like Facebook, and technology is changing to serve our social culture. As people consume increasing amounts of information in the form of news stories, e-mails, blog posts, Facebook statuses, Tweets, Tumblr posts and other new sources of information, they become their own editors, gatekeepers, and aggregators of information. Social media platforms create a distraction as users attention spans are challenged once they enter an online platform. One concern in this field is that massive amounts of information can be distracting and negatively impact productivity and decision-making and cognitive control. I Another concern is the \"contamination\" of useful information with information that might not be entirely accurate (Information pollution).\n\nThe general causes of information overload include:\n\n\nE-mail remains a major source of information overload, as people struggle to keep up with the rate of incoming messages. As well as filtering out unsolicited commercial messages (spam), users also have to contend with the growing use of email attachments in the form of lengthy reports, presentations and media files.\n\nA December 2007 New York Times blog post described E-mail as \"a $650 Billion Drag on the Economy\", and the New York Times reported in April 2008 that \"E-MAIL has become the bane of some people's professional lives\" due to information overload, yet \"none of [the current wave of high-profile Internet startups focused on email] really eliminates the problem of e-mail overload because none helps us prepare replies\".\n\nIn January 2011, Eve Tahmincioglu, a writer for NBC News, wrote an article titled \"It's Time to Deal With That Overflowing Inbox.\" Compiling statistics with commentary, she reported that there were 294 billion emails sent each day in 2010, up 50 billion from 2009. Quoted in the article, workplace productivity expert Marsha Egan stated that people need to differentiate between working on e-mail and sorting through it. This meant that rather than responding to every email right away, users should delete unnecessary emails and sort the others into action or reference folders first. Egan then went on to say \"We are more wired than ever before, and as a result need to be more mindful of managing email or it will end up managing us.\"\n\n\"The Daily Telegraph\" quoted Nicholas Carr, former executive editor of the Harvard Business Review and the author of \"The Shallows: What The Internet Is Doing To Our Brains\", as saying that email exploits a basic human instinct to search for new information, causing people to become addicted to \"mindlessly pressing levers in the hope of receiving a pellet of social or intellectual nourishment\". His concern is shared by Eric Schmidt, chief executive of Google, who stated that \"instantaneous devices\" and the abundance of information people are exposed to through e-mail and other technology-based sources could be having an impact on the thought process, obstructing deep thinking, understanding, impedes the formation of memories and makes learning more difficult. This condition of \"cognitive overload\" results in diminished information retaining ability and failing to connect remembrances to experiences stored in the long-term memory, leaving thoughts \"thin and scattered\". This is also manifest in the education process.\n\nIn addition to e-mail, the World Wide Web has provided access to billions of pages of information. In many offices, workers are given unrestricted access to the Web, allowing them to manage their own research. The use of search engines helps users to find information quickly. However, information published online may not always be reliable, due to the lack of authority-approval or a compulsory accuracy check before publication. Internet information lacks credibility as the Web's search engines do not have the abilities to filter and manage information and misinformation. This results in people having to cross-check what they read before using it for decision-making, which takes up more time. There are \"enormous disproportions between the content of Internet sources and the possibility of processing them by the human brain.\"\n\nViktor Mayer-Schönberger, author of \"Delete: The Virtue of Forgetting in the Digital Age,\" argues that everyone can be a \"participant\" on the Internet, where they are all senders and receivers of information. On the Internet, trails of information are left behind, allowing other Internet participants to share and exchange information. Information becomes difficult to control on the Internet.\n\nBBC reports that \"every day, the information we send and receive online - whether that's checking emails or searching the internet - amount to over 2.5 quintillion bytes of data.\"\n\nSocial media is defined as different online communities with shared content. It adds to the information overload problem because so many individuals have access to it. It presents many different views and outlooks on subject matters so that one may have difficulty taking it all in and drawing a clear conclusion.Information overload may not be the core reason for people’s anxieties about the amount of information they receive in their daily lives. Instead, information overload can be considered situational. Social media users tend to feel less overloaded by information when using their personal profiles, rather than when their work institutions expect individuals to gather a mass of information. Most people see information through social media in their lives as an aid to help manage their day to day activities and not an overload.Depending on what social media platform is being used, it may be easier or harder to stay up to date on posts from people. Facebook users who post and read more than others tend to be able to keep up. On the other hand, Twitter users who post and read a lot of tweets still feel like it is too much information (or none of it is interesting enough).\n\nRecent research suggests that an \"attention economy\" of sorts will naturally emerge from information overload, allowing Internet users greater control over their online experience with particular regard to communication mediums such as e-mail and instant messaging. This could involve some sort of cost being attached to e-mail messages. For example, managers charging a small fee for every e-mail received – e.g. $1.00 – which the sender must pay from their budget. The aim of such charging is to force the sender to consider the necessity of the interruption. However, such a suggestion undermines the entire basis of the popularity of e-mail, namely that e-mails are free.\n\nEconomics often assumes that people are rational in that they have the knowledge of their preferences and an ability to look for the best possible ways to maximize his preferences. People are seen as selfish and focus on what pleases them. Looking at various parts on their own, results in the negligence of the other parts that work alongside it that create the effect of IO. Lincoln suggests possible ways to look at IO in a more holistic approach by recognizing the many possible factors that play a role in IO and how they work together to achieve IO.\n\nThere are various solutions that can be used to mitigate IO. It is difficult to say whether or not there is a solution that can solve the issue altogether, but many methods have been suggested. Based on the definition of information overload, there are two general approaches to deal with it: 1) reduce the amount of incoming information,and 2) enhance the ability to process information.\n\nJohnson advises discipline which helps mitigate interruptions and for the elimination of push or notifications. He explains that notifications pull people's attentions away from their work and into social networks and e-mails. He also advises that people stop using their iPhones as alarm clocks which means that the phone is the first thing that people will see when they wake up leading to people checking their e-mail right away.\n\nClay Shirky states:\nThe use of Internet applications and add-ons such as the \"Inbox Pause\" add-on for Gmail. This add-on does not reduce the number of e-mails that people get but it pauses the inbox. Burkeman in his article talks about the feeling of being in control is the way to deal with information overload which might involve self-deception. He advises to fight irrationality with irrationality by using add-ons that allow you to pause your inbox or produce other results. Reducing large amounts of information is key.\n\nDealing with IO from a social network site such as Facebook, a study done by Humboldt University showed some strategies that students take to try and alleviate IO while using Facebook. Some of these strategies included: Prioritizing updates from friends who were physically farther away in other countries, hiding updates from less-prioritized friends, deleting people from their friends list, narrowing the amount of personal information shared, and deactivating the Facebook account.\n\nForbes staff writer Laura Shin references Daniel J. Levitin's book, \"The Organized Mind: Thinking Straight in the Age of Information Overload\", and lists the 10 tips in overcoming information overload:\n\n\nIllustration for an article published in \"Diario Uno (es)\" Decision makers performing complex tasks have little if any excess cognitive capacity. Narrowing one's attention as a result of the interruption is likely to result in the loss of information cues, some of which may be relevant to completing the task. Under these circumstances, performance is likely to deteriorate. As the number or intensity of the distractions/interruptions increases, the decision maker's cognitive capacity is exceeded, and performance deteriorates more severely. In addition to reducing the number of possible cues attended to, more severe distractions/interruptions may encourage decision makers to use heuristics, take shortcuts, or opt for a satisficing decision, resulting in lower decision accuracy.\n\nSome cognitive scientists and graphic designers have emphasized the distinction between raw information and information in a form we can use in thinking. In this view, information overload may be better viewed as organization underload. That is, they suggest that the problem is not so much the volume of information but the fact that we can not discern how to use it well in the raw or biased form it is presented to us. Authors who have taken this tack include graphic artist and architect Richard Saul Wurman and statistician and cognitive scientist Edward Tufte. Wurman uses the term \"information anxiety\" to describe our attitude toward the volume of information in general and our limitations in processing it. Tufte primarily focuses on quantitative information and explores ways to organize large complex datasets visually to facilitate clear thinking. Tufte's writing is important in such fields as information design and visual literacy, which deal with the visual communication of information. Tufte coined the term \"chartjunk\" to refer to useless, non-informative, or information-obscuring elements of quantitative information displays, such as the use of graphics to overemphasize the importance of certain pieces of data or information.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18960729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18960729", "title": "Instituto Lingüístico de Verano (Mexico)", "text": "Instituto Lingüístico de Verano (Mexico)\n\nThe Instituto Lingüístico de Verano A.C. (abbreviated ILV, in ) is a non-profit organization incorporated in Mexico with the legal status of a civil association (\"Asociación Civil\"). It is the affiliate body in Mexico to the overarching parent organization SIL International, a worldwide U.S.-based evangelical Protestant organization that sponsors the study, documentation and development of indigenous and minority languages across the world. ILV in Mexico was formally established in 1948, with a stated focus on the study and documentation of the indigenous languages of Mexico and involvement with Mexico's indigenous peoples' affairs generally. The Institute publishes dictionaries, grammars and other literacy and education materials in many of the indigenous languages, and it is also a sponsor of language workshops, presentations and conferences. As a body with ongoing degrees of association and sponsorship of Christian missionary activities and goals, ILV also works to produce translations of Biblical texts in local languages.\n\nWhile its work in the fields of linguistics and cultural anthropology has been lauded and recognized as substantial and positive contributions in many quarters, some of the ILV's activities have also attracted criticism and controversy with a number of anthropologists and other commentators severely criticizing its relations with Evangelical proselytism, and also alleging political involvement, pro-U.S. stance and acculturation policies.\n\n"}
{"id": "40000270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40000270", "title": "Intelligent Design: Message from the Designers", "text": "Intelligent Design: Message from the Designers\n\nIntelligent Design: Message from the Designers is a book written by Claude Vorilhon (Rael), the founder of the Raelian movement. The book was originally titled The Message Given to me by Extraterrestrials, but was republished in 2006 under the current name. In it he explains his interaction with aliens. In it, Rael argues for an alternative to the two most widely held explanations for the origin of life, creationism and evolution. He explains that the world and all life was created by a highly advanced group of aliens.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13580187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13580187", "title": "James Watson Corder", "text": "James Watson Corder\n\nJames Watson Corder (1867–1953) is a historian best remembered for documenting family history in Sunderland, Tyne and Wear, England. His volumes are today invaluable to people interested in genealogy.\n\nJames Corder, the son of Sunderland merchant tradesman Francis Corder, was educated at the Quaker-run Bootham School in York and never married. Instead, he devoted his life to local history.\n\nHis historical studies began when he was in his early 20s, after he was inspired by George Bain, a founder of Sunderland Antiquarian Society, to investigate Sunderland’s history.\n\nJames Corder started his research at the end of the 19th century, by copying the registers of three ancient churches, including St Peter's, which was founded by Benedict Biscop. He also used information held by Presbyterian chapels in the town, as well as trade directories and marriage licence bonds.\n\nCorder documented his research in 25 volumes of manuscript books, taking 40 years to compile lists of the births, deaths and marriages of Sunderland families. His knowledge of intermarriage was immense, as documented in his volume on local Quaker families. He also interviewed people to help with the construction of the pedigrees of local families. He made notes of their origins in his manuscripts and traced their first entry into the town, the trades they were in and where they lived.\n\nBut he was also controversial. His books often contained potentially libelous comments on the people he met. One man was called a ‘worthless nonentity,’ by Corder, another ‘a habitual drunkard.’ It is said that his books were kept hidden at Sunderland library for some years, for fear of possible court action by those mentioned.\n\nAs well as his family records, Corder also chronicled Sunderland's streets, buildings, churches and industries in a further 36 volumes. Many of the streets, and most of the firms he listed, have now disappeared – hence his work is of great value.\n\nCorder retired in the 1940s, donating his volumes of research to Sunderland’s Central Library. He left Sunderland some years later, moving to Over Stowey in Somerset. He died in Over Stowey in a nursing home in 1953, at the age of 85.\n\nCorder's unique record of Sunderland life is available to view at Sunderland’s Central Library and provides a vital starting point for many genealogists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43145428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43145428", "title": "John D'Alton (historian)", "text": "John D'Alton (historian)\n\nJohn D'Alton (1792–1867) was an Irish lawyer, historian, biographer and genealogist.\n\nD'Alton was born at his father's ancestral mansion, Bessville, County Westmeath, on 20 June 1792; his mother was Elizabeth Leyne. He was sent to the school of the Rev. Joseph Hutton, Summer Hill, Dublin, and passed the entrance examination of Trinity College, Dublin, in his fourteenth year, 1806. He became a student in 1808, joined the College Historical Society, and gained the prize for poetry. Having graduated, he was in 1811 admitted a law student of the Middle Temple, London, and the King's Inns. He was called to the Irish bar in 1813.\n\nD'Alton mainly confined himself to chamber practice, and attended the Connaught circuit, having married a lady of that province, Miss Phillips. He received many fees in the important Irish family causes of Malone v. O'Connor, Leamy v. Smith, Jago v. Hungerford, and others. With the exception of an appointment as commissioner of the Loan Fund Board, he held no official position, but a civil list pension of £50, granted while Lord John Russell was prime minister, was some recognition.\n\nIn his last years, D'Alton's health confined him to his house, but he received guests and worked on an autobiography. He died 20 January 1867.\n\nD'Alton's first publication was a metrical poem, \"Dermid, or the Days of Brian Boru\", in twelve cantos. In 1827 the Royal Irish Academy offered a prize of £80 and the Cunningham gold medal for an essay on the Irish people to the twelfth century; D'Alton obtained the top prize and medal, and his essay, which was read 24 November 1828, occupied the first part of vol. xvi. of the \"Transactions of the Royal Irish Academy\". In 1831 he also gained the prize offered by the Royal Irish Academy for an account of the reign of Henry II of England in Ireland.\n\nFor illustrations of Irish topography contributed to the \"Irish Penny Journal\", started in January 1833, D'Alton collected information on druidical stones, the raths and fortresses of the early colonists, especially of the Anglo-Normans, the castles of the Plantagenets, Elizabethan mansions, Cromwellian keeps, and the ruins of abbeys. Drawings were supplied by Samuel Lover. In 1838 D'Alton published \"Memoirs of the Archbishops of Dublin\", and in the same year \"History of the County of Dublin\". His next work was an illustrated book \"The History of Drogheda and its Environs\", containing a memoir of the Dublin and Drogheda Railway. There followed the \"Annals of Boyle\", to which Robert King, 1st Viscount Lorton, the proprietor, contributed £300 towards the publication.\n\nD'Alton published in 1855 \"King James II's Irish Army List, 1689\", which contained the names of most of the prominent Irish families, with historical and genealogical illustrations, and subsequently enlarged in separate volumes, for cavalry and infantry. They bring the history of most families to the date of publication. Another work was legal, a treatise on the \"Law of Tithes\". At the end of his life, in 1864, D'Alton was asked to write a \"History of Dundalk\" that was completed by James Roderick O'Flanagan.\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "2673318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2673318", "title": "John Major (philosopher)", "text": "John Major (philosopher)\n\nJohn Major (or Mair) (also known in Latin as \"Joannes Majoris\" and \"Haddingtonus Scotus\") (1467–1550) was a Scottish philosopher, theologian, and historian who was much admired in his day and was an acknowledged influence on all the great thinkers of the time. A very renowned teacher, his works were much collected and frequently republished across Europe. His \"sane conservatism\" and his sceptical, logical approach to the study of texts such as Aristotle or the Bible were less prized in the subsequent age of humanism where a more committed and linguistic/literary, approach prevailed. His influence in logic (especially the analysis of terms), science (impetus and infinitesimals), politics (placing the people over kings), Church (councils over Popes), and international law (establishing the human rights of \"savages\" conquered by the Spanish) can be traced across the centuries and appear decidedly modern, and it is only in the modern age that he is not routinely dismissed as a scholastic. His Latin style did not help – he thought that \"it is of more moment to understand aright, and clearly to lay down the truth of any matter than to use eloquent language\". Nevertheless, it is to his writings, including their dedications, that we owe much of our knowledge of the everyday facts of Major's life – for example his \"shortness of stature\". He was an extremely curious and very observant man, and used his experiences – of earthquakes in Paisley, thunder in Glasgow, storms at sea, eating oatcakes in northern England – to illustrate the more abstract parts of his logical writings.\n\nJohn Major (or 'Mair') was born about 1467 at Gleghornie, near North Berwick where he received his early education. It was at nearby Haddington, East Lothian, Scotland, where he attended grammar school. He was probably taught by the town schoolmaster George Litsar, who was, according to Major \"although a circumspect man in other ways, more severe than was just in beating boys\". If it had not been for the influence of his mother, Major says he would have left, but he and his brother stayed on and were successful. According to him, Haddington was \"the town which fostered the beginning of my studies, and in whose kindly embrace I was nourished as a novice with the sweetest milk of the art of grammar\". He says he stayed in Haddington \"to a pretty advanced age\" and he remembers the sound of the King James III's bombardment of the nearby castle of Dunbar, which was in 1479. He also remembers the comet which was supposed to have foretold the King's defeat at Sauchieburn which was in 1488. However, it was in 1490, he reports, that he \"first left the paternal hearth\". In 1490, probably under the influence of Robert Cockburn, another Haddington man, destined to be an influential bishop (of Ross and later of Dunkeld), he decided to go to Paris to study among the great numbers of Scots there at the time.\n\nIt is not known whether he attended university in Scotland as a student – there are no matriculation records of him and he claimed never to have seen the university town of St Andrews, Fife as a young man (though he did complain later of its bad beer). He seems to have decided to prepare for Paris at Cambridge in England. He says that in 1492 he attended \"Gods House\", which later became Christ's College. He remembers the bells – \"on great feast days, I spent half the night listening to them\" – but was obviously well-prepared, as he left for Paris after three terms.\n\nIn 1493 he matriculated in the University of Paris, France, then the foremost University in Europe. He studied at the Collège Sainte-Barbe and took his Bachelor of Arts degree there in 1495 followed by his master's degree in 1496. There were many currents of thought in Paris but he was heavily influenced, as were fellow Scots such as Lawrence of Lindores by the nominalist and empiricist approach of John Buridan. (The latter's influence on Copernicus and Galileo can be traced through Majors published works). He became a student master ('regent') in Arts in the Collège de Montaigu in 1496 and began the study of theology under the formidable Jan Standonck. He consorted with scholars of later renown, some from his hometown, Robert Walterston, and his home country (David Cranston of Glasgow, who died in 1512), but mostly they were the luminaries of the age, including Erasmus, whose reforming enthusiasms he shared, Rabelais and Reginald Pole. In the winter of 1497 he had a serious illness, from which he never completely recovered. He had never had dreams before, but ever afterwards he was troubled by dreams, migraine, colic and \"excessive sleepiness\" (he was always hard to awaken). In 1499, he moved to the College of Navarre. In 1501, he received his degree of Bachelor of Sacred Theology and in 1505 his logical writings were collected and published for the first time. In 1506 he was licensed to teach theology and was awarded the degree of Doctor of Sacred Theology on 11 November that year (coming 3rd in the listings). He taught at the Collège de Montaigu (where he was, temporarily joint Director) and also the prestigious Sorbonne, where he served on many commissions.\n\nIn 1510 he discussed the moral and legal questions arising from the Spanish discovery of America. He claimed that the natives had political and property rights that could not be invaded, at least not without compensation. He also uses the new discoveries to argue for the possibility of innovation in all knowledge saying \"Has not Amerigo Vespucci discovered lands unknown to Ptolemy, Pliny and other geographers up to the present? Why cannot the same happen in other spheres?\" At the same time, he was impatient of humanist criticism of the logical analysis of texts (including the Bible). \"...these questions which the humanists think futile, are like a ladder for the intelligence to rise towards the Bible\" (which he elsewhere, perhaps unwisely called \"the easier parts of theology\"). Nevertheless, in 1512, like a good humanist, he learned Greek from Girolamo Aleandro (who re-introduced the study of Greek to Paris) who wrote \"Many scholastics are to be found in France who are keen students in different kinds of knowledge and several of these are among my faithful hearers, such as John Mair, Doctor of Philosophy...\"\n\nIn 1518 he returned to Scotland to become Principal of the University of Glasgow (and also canon of the cathedral, vicar of Dunlop and Treasurer of the Chapel Royal). He returned to Paris several times – by sea one time, getting delayed in Dieppe for three weeks by a storm; and by land another time, having dinner en route through England with his friend, Cardinal Wolsey. He offered Major a post, which he declined, in his new college at the University of Oxford, to be called Cardinal's College, (later Christ Church, Oxford). In 1528, King Francis I of France issued Major with a patent of naturalisation, making him a naturalised subject of France.\n\nIn 1533 he was made Provost of St Salvator's College in the University of St Andrews – to which thronged many of the most significant men in Scotland, including John Knox and George Buchanan. He missed Paris – \"When I was in Scotland, I often thought how I would go back to Paris and give lectures as I used to and hear disputations\". He died in 1550 (perhaps on 1 May), his works read throughout Europe, his name honoured everywhere, just as the storms of the Reformation were about to sweep away, at least in his own country, any respect for his centuries-old methodology.\n\n\nHis \"De Gestis Scotorum\" (Paris, 1521) was partly a patriotic attempt to raise the profile of his native country, but was also an attempt to clear away myth and fable, basing his history on evidence. In this, he was following in the footsteps of his predecessor, the Chronicler Andrew of Wyntoun, though writing in Latin for a European audience as opposed to the Scots Andrew wrote for his aristocratic Scots patrons. Although the documentary evidence available to Major was limited, his scholarly approach was adopted and improved by later historians of Scotland, including his pupil Hector Boece, and John Lesley.\n\nIn 1506 he was awarded a doctorate in theology by Paris where he began to teach and progress through the hierarchy, becoming for a brief period Rector. (Some 18 of his fellow Scots had held or were to hold this prestigious position). He was a renowned logician and philosopher. He is reported to have been a very clear and forceful lecturer, attracting students from all over Europe. In contrast, he had a rather dry, some said 'barbaric', written Latin style. He was referred to by Pierre Bayle as writing \"\"in stylo Sorbonico\", not meaning this as a compliment. His interests ranged across the burning issues of the day. His approach largely followed Nominalism which was in tune with the growing emphasis on the absolutely unconstrained nature of God, which in turn emphasised his grace and the importance of individual belief and submission. His humanist approach was in tune with the return to the texts in the original languages of the Scriptures and classical authors. He emphasised that authority lay with the whole church and not with the Pope. Similarly, he asserted that authority in a kingdom lay not with the king but with the people, who could retake their power from a delinquent king (a striking echo of the ringing Declaration of Arbroath 1320 confirming to the Pope the independence of the Scottish crown from that of England). It is not surprising that he emphasised the natural freedom of human beings.\n\nHis influence extended through enthusiastic pupils to the leading thinkers of the day but most obviously to a group of Spanish thinkers, including Antonio Coronel, who taught John Calvin and very probably Ignatius of Loyola.\n\nIn 1522, at Salamanca, Domingo de San Juan referred to him as \"the revered master, John Mair, a man celebrated the world over\"\". The Salamanca school of (largely Thomist) philosophers was a brilliant flowering of thought until the early parts of the seventeenth century. It included Francisco de Vitoria, Cano, de Domingo de Soto and Bartolomé de Medina, each one thorough soaked in Mairian enthusiasms.\n\nMajor wrote in his \"Commentary on the Sentences of Peter Lombard\" \"\"Our native soil attracts us with a secret and inexpressible sweetness and does not permit us to forget it\".\" He returned to Scotland in 1518. Given his success and experience in Paris, it is no surprise that he became the Principal of the University of Glasgow. In 1523 left for the University of St Andrews where he was assessor to the Dean of Arts. In 1525 he went again to Paris from where he returned in 1531 eventually to become Provost of St Salvator's College, St Andrews until his death in 1550, aged about eighty three.\n\nOne of his most notable students was John Knox (coincidentally, another native of Haddington) who said of Major that he was such as \"\"whose work was then held as an oracle on the matters of religion\" If this is not exactly a ringing endorsement, it is not hard to see in Knox's preaching an intense version of Major's enthusiasms – the utter freedom of God, the importance of the Bible, scepticism of earthly authority. It might be more surprising that Major preferred to follow his friend Erasmus's example and remain within the Roman Catholic Church (though he did envisage a national church for Scotland). Major also filled with enthusiasm other Scottish Reformers including the Protestant martyr Patrick Hamilton and the Latin stylist George Buchanan, whose enthusiasm for witty Latinisms had him waspishly suggesting that the only thing major about his ex-teacher was his surname – typical Renaissance disdain for the Schoolmen.\n\nMajor and his circle were interested in the structures of language – spoken, written and 'mental'. This latter was the language which underlies the thoughts that are expressed in natural languages, like Scots, English or Latin. He attacks a whole range of questions from a generally 'nominalist' perspective – a form of philosophical discourse whose tradition derives from the high Middle Ages and was to continue into that of the Scottish and other European empiricists. According to Alexander Broadie, Major's influence on this latter tradition reached as far as the 18th and 19th century Scottish School of Common Sense initiated by Thomas Reid. The highly logical and technical approach of Medieval philosophy – perhaps added to by Major's poor written style as well as his adherence to the Catholic party at the time of the Reformation – explain in some part why this influence is still somewhat occluded.\n\nMore obviously influential was his moral philosophy, not primarily because of his casuistry – an approach acknowledging the complexity of individual cases. This was later so strong in Jesuit teaching, possibly related to the Major's renown in Spain mentioned above. His legal views were also influential. His Commentaries on the Sentences of Peter Lombard was most certainly studied and quoted in the debates at Burgos in 1512, by Frày Anton Montesino, a graduate of Salamanca. This \"debate unique in the history of empires\"\", as Hugh Thomas calls it, resulted in the recognition in Spanish law of the indigenous populations of America as being free human beings with all the rights (to liberty and property, for example) attached to them. This pronouncement was hedged in with many subtle qualifications, and the Spanish crown was never efficient at enforcing it, but it can be regarded as the fount of human rights law.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8864468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8864468", "title": "Karl Taube", "text": "Karl Taube\n\nKarl Andreas Taube (born September 14, 1957)  is an American Mesoamericanist, archaeologist, epigrapher and ethnohistorian, known for his publications and research into the pre-Columbian cultures of Mesoamerica and the American Southwest. he holds a position as Professor of Anthropology at the College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences, University of California, Riverside. In 2008 he was named the College of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences distinguished lecturer.\n\nTaube commenced his undergraduate education at Stanford, relocating to Berkeley where he completed a B.A. in Anthropology in 1980. His graduate studies were undertaken in Anthropology at Yale, where he completed his Masters degree in 1983 and was awarded his Doctorate in 1988. At Yale, Taube studied under several notable Mayanist researchers, including Michael D. Coe, Floyd Lounsbury and the art historian Mary Miller. Taube later co-authored with Miller a well-received encyclopaedic work, \"The Gods and Symbols of Ancient Mexico and the Maya\".\n\nField research undertaken during the course of his career include a number of assignments on archaeological, linguistic and ethnological projects conducted in the Chiapas highlands, Yucatán Peninsula, central Mexico, Honduras and most recently, Guatemala. As of 2003, Taube has served as Project Iconographer for the Proyecto San Bartolo, co-directed by William Saturno and Monica Urquizu. His primary role is to interpret the murals of Pinturas Structure Sub-1, dating to the first century B.C. In 2004, Taube co-directed an archaeological project documenting previously unknown sources of \"Olmec Blue\" jadeite in eastern Guatemala. Taube has also investigated pre-Columbian sites in Ecuador and Peru.\n\nAn early theme examined by Taube's papers and other publications concerned the agricultural development and symbolism of Mesoamerica, such as in his 1983 presentation to the Fifth Palenque Round Table on the Maya maize god. Taube has also written on the symbolism and deity associations of maize for other cultures, such as the Olmec.\n\nAnother research theme explored by Taube is that of inter– and intra-regional exchanges and contacts for Mesoamerica, such as with those of Aridoamerica and the American Southwest. He has also researched the interactions between Teotihuacan, a dominant center in Mexico's plateau region during the Classic era of Mesoamerican chronology, and contemporary Maya polities.\n\nHis father, Canadian-born Henry Taube (d. 2005), was the recipient of the 1983 Nobel Prize in chemistry.\n\n"}
{"id": "53301009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53301009", "title": "Kon-Tiki2", "text": "Kon-Tiki2\n\nThe Kon-Tiki2 Expedition built and sailed two balsawood rafts from Peru to Easter Island in 2015. The goal of the expedition was to show that balsawood rafts can be sailed across long distances, and to collect scientific data in the southeast Pacific. The expedition built two rafts in 30 days and went on to sail the rafts more than 2000 nautical miles before reaching Easter Island after 43 days at sea. No other balsa rafts have sailed to Easter Island in modern times.\n\nOn the return journey from Easter Island to South America, the expedition was terminated after 71 days at sea due to difficult weather conditions. By then, the rafts had sailed halfway to South America. All crew members were taken aboard a Japanese freighter, and later transported to shore by the Chilean Armada. Expedition leader Torgeir Higraff chose to terminate the expedition to avoid risking the life of crew members.\n\nThe expedition built and sailed two balsawood rafts: \"Rahiti Tane\" and \"Tupac Yupanqui\". The rafts were similar to the \"Kon-Tiki\" raft built by Thor Heyerdahl in 1947. Like the \"Kon-Tiki\", \"Rahiti Tane\" and \"Tupac Yupanqui\" were built from balsawood transported from Ecuador to SIMA, the Peruvian Army's shipyard in Callao, Lima. However, the Kon-Tiki2 rafts were different in several respects: \"Kon-Tiki\" had a rudder, while the Kon-Tiki2 rafts were steered by guara boards which allowed the rafts to be sailed in crosswinds. The Kon-Tiki2 rafts had modern satellite equipment on board, in addition to solar panels and scientific equipment.\n\nThe Kon-Tiki2 Expedition had crew from many nations: Norway, Russia, UK, Mexico, New Zealand, Sweden, and Peru. Øyvin Lauten and Kari Skår Dahl were captains on the first leg, while Signe Meling and Ola Borgfjord were captains on the second leg. Cecilie Mauritzen was the chief scientist and Håkon Wium Lie was the CTO. On the return journey, Pedro De La Torre was responsible for the technical equipment and the scientific work.\n"}
{"id": "110577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=110577", "title": "Lahaina, Hawaii", "text": "Lahaina, Hawaii\n\nLāhainā is the largest census-designated place (CDP) in West Maui, Maui County, Hawaii, United States, and includes the Ka'anapali and Kapalua beach resorts. As of the 2010 census, the CDP had a resident population of 11,704. Lahaina encompasses the coast along Hawaii Route 30 from a tunnel at the south end, through Olowalu, and to the CDP of Napili-Honokowai to the north. During the tourist season, the population can swell to nearly 40,000 people.\n\nLahaina's popularity as a tropical getaway has made its real estate some of the most expensive in Hawaii; many luxury homes and condos sell for more than $5 million.\n\nIn antiquity Lahaina was the royal capital of Maui Loa, aliʻi nui of the island of Maui, after he ceded the royal seat of Hana to the ruler of Hawaii Island. In Lahaina, the focus of activity is along Front Street, which dates back to the 1820s. It is lined with stores and restaurants and often packed with tourists. The Banyan Court Park features an exceptionally large banyan tree (\"Ficus benghalensis\") planted by William Owen Smith on April 24, 1873, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the arrival of Christian missionaries. It is also the site of the reconstructed ruins of Lahaina Fort, originally built in 1832. It is the largest Banyan Tree in the United States.\n\n\"Lele\" was an ancient name of Lahaina. The name \"Lā hainā\" means \"cruel sun\" in the Hawaiian language, describing the sunny dry climate. Lahaina's historic district averages only of rain per year, much of which occurs from December to February.\n\nIn 1795, before unification of the islands, the town was conquered by Kamehameha the Great. Lahaina was the capital of the Kingdom of Hawaii from 1820 to 1845. King Kamehameha III, son of Kamehameha I, preferred the town to bustling Honolulu. He built a palace complex on a island Mokuula surrounded by a pond called Moku Hina, said to be home to Kiwahine, a spiritual protector of Maui and the Pi'ilani royal line, near the center of town. In 1824, at the chiefs' request, Betsey Stockton started the first mission school open to the common people. It was once an important destination for the 19th-century whaling fleet, whose presence at Lahaina frequently led to conflicts with the Christian missionaries living there. On more than one occasion the conflict was so severe that it led to sailor riots and even the shelling of Lahaina by the British whaler in 1827. In response, Maui Governor Hoapili built the Old Lahaina Fort in 1831 to protect the town from riotous sailors.\n\nLahaina was the capital of the Kingdom of Hawaii from 1820 to 1845, when the capital was moved back to Honolulu. In the 19th century, Lahaina was the center of the global whaling industry, with many sailing ships anchoring at its waterfront; today pleasure craft make their home there. Lahaina's Front Street has been ranked one of the \"Top Ten Greatest Streets\" by the American Planning Association.\n\nLahaina is located at (20.886122, -156.674602). According to the United States Census Bureau, the CDP has a total area of , of which is land and , or 16.26%, is water.\n\nThere are many different climates in the different districts of Lahaina. The historic district is the driest and calmest and hosts the small boat harbor. Kaanapali is north of a wind line and has double the annual rainfall and frequent breezes. The Kapalua and Napili areas have almost four times the annual rainfall compared to the historic district of Lahaina. \n\nMaui's west coast includes several different micro climates and wind lines. Lahaina's northern end gets four times as much rainfall as historic Lahaina and is cooler. The Kaanapali area of Lahaina gets twice as much rain as historic Lahaina.\n\nLahaina has a tropical, semi-arid climate (Köppen \"BSh\") with warm temperatures year-round.\n\nThe southern end of Front Street is home to the largest Banyan Tree in the United States.\n\nThe West Maui mountains have beautiful valleys visible from the historic district of Lahaina. The valleys are the backdrop for \"the 5 o'clock rainbow\" that happens almost every day. In 1831 a fort was built for defense, and the reconstructed remains of its walls and original cannons can still be seen. Also near the small boat harbor are the historic Pioneer Inn and the Baldwin House museum in the historic district of Lahaina.\n\nHale Pai is the site of Hawaii's first printing press, including Hawaii's first paper currency, printed in 1843.\n\nThe Plantation Course at Kapalua hosts the PGA Tour's Hyundai Tournament of Champions every January.\n\nThe many restaurants along Front Street offer a broad variety of food and entertainment, making it the hub of West Maui's night life. A variety of shops and galleries line both sides of the oceanfront Front Street.\n\n\"Carthaginian II\" was a museum ship moored in the harbor of this former whaling port. Built in 1920 and brought to Maui in 1973, it served as a whaling museum until 2005, and after being sunk in of water about offshore to create an artificial reef, now serves as a diving destination. It replaced an earlier replica of a whaler, \"Carthaginian\", which had been converted to film scenes for the 1966 movie \"Hawaii\".\n\nHalloween is a major celebration in Lahaina and has become a signature event, with crowds averaging between 20,000 and 30,000. The evening starts off by closing Front Street to vehicles so the \"Keiki Parade\" of children in costumes can begin. Eventually, adults in costumes join in, and by dark the street becomes one big party. Some refer to Halloween night in Lahaina as the \"Mardi Gras of the Pacific\". In 2008 the celebration was curtailed due to the objections of a group of cultural advisers who felt Halloween was an affront to Hawaiian culture. In the following years the event was poorly attended, as the street was not closed and no costume contest took place. In 2011, citing economic concerns, the County permitted the annual signature event to fully resume.\n\nFrom November to May, whale watching excursions are popular with tourists. The peak season for whale watching in Lahaina is January–March.\n\nEach November, Lahaina hosts the Maui Invitational, one of the top early-season tournaments in college basketball. The event is sponsored by Maui Jim.\n\nLahaina also hosts the finish of the Vic-Maui Yacht Race, which starts in Victoria, British Columbia, Canada. This race started in the 1960s and is held every two years.\n\nThe historic district has preserved 60 historic sites within a small area and they are managed by the Lahaina Restoration.\n\nThe chances of becoming victim in Lahaina is 1 in 385 while in Hawaii is 323. That means that the chances of becoming a victim of crime in Lahaina is less than in Hawaii. The Lahaina crime index is 13, meaning the city is safer than thirteen percent of cities in the United States. \n\nMajor employers in Lahaina include People Who Clean, Safeway, Aina Nalu Lahaina by Outrigger, the Old Lahaina Luau, Maui Jim, Longhi's, T S Restaurants, Hawai'i Department of Education, ABC Stores, Foodland, Cheeseburger in Paradise (unrelated to Jimmy Buffett's restaurant chain of the same name) , Bubba Gump Shrimp Company, and Aloha Mixed Plate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "209203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=209203", "title": "List of domesticated animals", "text": "List of domesticated animals\n\nThis page gives a list of domestic animals, also including a list of animals which are or may be currently undergoing the process of domestication and animals that have an extensive relationship with humans beyond simple predation. This includes species which are semi-domesticated, undomesticated but captive-bred on a commercial scale, or commonly wild-caught, at least occasionally captive-bred, and tameable. In order to be considered fully domesticated, most species have undergone significant genetic, behavioural and/or morphological changes from their wild ancestors; while others have been changed very little from their wild ancestors despite hundreds or thousands of years of potential selective breeding. A number of factors determine how quickly any changes may occur in a species, however, there isn't always a desire to improve a species from its wild form. Domestication is a gradual process, i.e., there is no precise moment in the history of a given species when it can be considered to have become fully domesticated.\n\nArchaeozoology has identified three classes of animal domesticates: (1) commensals, adapted to a human niche (e.g., dogs, cats, guinea pigs); (2) prey animals sought for food (e.g., cows, sheep, pig, goats); and (3) targeted animals for draft and nonfood resources (e.g., horse, camel, donkey).\n\nTo sort the tables chronologically by date of domestication, refresh your browser window, as clicking the Date column heading will mix AD and BC dates.\n\nDue to the somewhat unclear outlines of what, precisely, constitutes domestication, there are some species that may or may not be fully domesticated. There are also species that are extensively used or kept as pets by humans, but are not significantly altered from wild-type animals. Most animals on this second table are at least somewhat altered from wild animals by their extensive interactions with humans. Many could not be released into the wild, or are in some way dependent on humans.\n\nThe categories used in Taxon group column are: \n"}
{"id": "665809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=665809", "title": "Long weekend", "text": "Long weekend\n\nA long weekend is a weekend that is at least three days long (so, a three-day weekend), due to a public holiday falling on either the Friday or Monday.\n\nMost countries also feature many four-day weekends, in which two days adjoining the weekend are holidays. (Examples can include Easter Monday / Good Friday, and Christmas Day / Boxing Day.)\n\nFurther, in many nations, when a lone holiday occurs on a Tuesday or a Thursday, the gap between that day and the weekend may also be designated as a holiday, or set to be a movable or floating holiday, or indeed work/school may be avoided by consensus unofficially. This is typically referred to by a phrase involving \"bridge\" in most languages.\n\nFour-day bridge weekends are commonplace in non-English speaking countries, but there are only a couple of examples in English-speaking countries:\n\nIn the US, the fourth Thursday of November is Thanksgiving; but the adjacent Friday is made into a non-working day at some businesses. In Melbourne, Australia, the Melbourne Cup holiday is held on a Tuesday, but many people modify their work arrangements to also have the Monday off.\n\nIn Sweden a day between a weekend and a bank holiday is called \"Klämdag\" (Squeeze Day) and a lot of Swedes try to take a vacation day to have a long weekend.\n\nIn the United Kingdom and some other British Commonwealth countries, and in Ireland, the term is often known as a Bank Holiday weekend, since bank holidays always fall on a Monday.\nThe term for a four-day weekend in some Spanish-speaking countries is \"puente\" (\"bridge\") or simply \"fin de semana largo\".\n\nIn Spain, the bridge becomes a \"puente\" in some years when the anniversary of the Spanish Constitution of 1978 (December 6) and the Blessed Virgin Mary's Immaculate Conception (December 8) and a weekend plus a movable holiday form a block of five days.\n\nIn Chile, a \"sandwich\" is a day that falls between two holidays, independently of whether it's a holiday by itself or not. In the latter case, workers may take it off on account on vacation days, an action called \"tomarse el sandwich\" (lit.: \"taking the sandwich\"). In formal writings, the term \"interferiado\" is used instead of \"sandwich\". In colloquial contexts, these days, almost always a Monday or a Friday, may be called \"San Lunes\" or \"San Viernes\" (lit.: \"Saint Monday\" and \"Saint Friday\", respectively) as well.\n\nFrance uses the same bridge idiom: \"faire le pont\" (literally meaning simply \"to make the bridge\") is the universal phrase used to mean taking additional holiday days, to make an \"even longer\" holiday. For example, if there is already an official holiday on Thursday, one could \"faire le pont\" on the Friday – leading to a four-day weekend (Thursday through Sunday inclusive). Same example if there is an official holiday on a Tuesday, one could \"faire le pont\" on the Monday – leading to another four-day weekend again.\n\nThe same idiom applies in Italy, where they say 'Fare il ponte,' again literally, 'Make the bridge.'\nThis could be a Thursday-Sunday weekend if the bridge was over Friday, or a Saturday-Tuesday weekend if the bridge was over a Monday.\n\nThe Portuguese do the same with \"ponte.\"\n\nIn Slovenian, the term podaljšan vikend (\"prolonged weekend\") is used for a three-day weekend. Four-day weekends also happen, because May 1 and May 2 are public holidays (both May Day). A peculiar coincidence are Christmas Day and Independence Day, falling on two consecutive dates.\n\nIn German, a bridge-related term is also used: a day taken off from work to fill the gap between a holiday Thursday (or Tuesday) and the weekend is called a \"Brückentag\" (\"bridge day\") in Germany and Switzerland, and a \"Fenstertag\" (\"window day\") in Austria. Since Ascension day is a holiday throughout Germany and Corpus Christi is a holiday in large parts of the country (both of these holidays are always on Thursdays), such \"bridge days\" are fairly common, though always unofficial in character. The \"bridge day\" terminology is also used in Israel (\"yom gishur\"/\"\") and Flanders (\"brugdag\"; not so common in The Netherlands).\n\nThe term długi weekend (Polish for \"long weekend\") is also commonly used in the Polish language. In Poland, such a phenomenon usually occurs several times a year. As well as the Easter weekend and the Christmas weekend, there is Corpus Christi weekend (Corpus Christi is always on Thursday and people usually take Friday off as well) and it may occur also around other holidays. However, the best known long weekend is at the beginning of May, when there are holidays of Labour Day on May 1 and 3 May Constitution Day. The weekend can in fact be up to 9 days long (April 28 – May 6) and, taking one to three days off work, Poles often go for small holidays then.\n\nIn Norwegian, the term \"oval weekend\" is used. An ordinary weekend is conceived of as \"round\" (although this is not stated explicitly), and adding extra days off makes it \"oval\". Norwegians also refer to \"inneklemte\" (squeezed in) days, which are between a public holiday and a weekend. This is typical for the Friday after Ascension Day, which always falls on a Thursday. It is common not to work on such days, so as to be able to extend the weekend to four days.\n\nAlso in Swedish, the days between a holiday and weekend are called \"klämdagar\" (squeezed-in days).\n\nIn Argentina and the USA, some national holidays that occur on a Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday (sometimes even on a Saturday) are officially moved to the closest Monday in order to create a long weekend.\n\nIn the United States, the Uniform Monday Holiday Act officially moved federal government observances of many holidays to Mondays, largely at the behest of the travel industry. The resulting long weekends are often termed \"three-day weekends\" as a result.\n\nIn Brazil, when a holiday occurs in a Tuesday or a Thursday, some sectors of the society, as government and education, turn the day between the holiday and the weekend into a holiday. The four-day or even the three-day weekends are called \"feriados prolongados\" (\"Extended holidays\") or its popular form \"feriadão\" (\"big holiday\"). The bridge day is usually called \"imprensado\" (\"pressed (in between)\") or \"enforcado\" (\"hanged\").\n\nIn Indonesia, when a holiday occurs on a Tuesday and Thursday, the day between that day and the weekend is colloquially termed \"Harpitnas\" ('Hari Kejepit Nasional') (lit. National Sandwiched Day, a play on \"Hardiknas\", National Education Day) causing some institutions to declare a day off, or some students or employees unilaterally declaring a day off for themselves, thereby creating a long weekend.\n\n"}
{"id": "49694567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49694567", "title": "Margaret Atherton", "text": "Margaret Atherton\n\nMargaret Atherton is an American philosopher and feminist historian who is a Distinguished Professor of Philosophy at the University of Wisconsin–Milwaukee, College of Letters and Science. Atherton's research has focused on philosophers of the early modern period, philosophy of psychology (cognition and mind), and the work of women philosophers, as well as teaching the history of modern philosophy.\n\nAtherton attained her A.B. in Philosophy at Bryn Mawr College in 1965. In 1970, she received a Ph.D. in Philosophy from Brandeis University; her dissertation \"Nativism\" initiated her philosophical work in innate ideas.\n\nAtherton's book \"Women Philosophers of the Early Modern Period\" highlights historical women who have impacted philosophy. Atherton has published many articles, been featured in several journals, and asked to present her ideas at conferences and institutions throughout the years.\nGeorge Berkeley and John Locke are seen throughout her work and reviews. Atherton has engaged in research since the 1970s and has continued to develop her methods and expand her ideas.\n\nAtherton is a member of the British Society for the History of Philosophy, Hume Society, American Eighteenth Century Society, International Berkeley Society (Philosophy Associations Coordinator), Society for Women in Philosophy, and the American Philosophical Association.\n\nAtherton has been a professor of Philosophy at New York University, Brooklyn College, University of Maryland, University of Rochester, and University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.\n\n"}
{"id": "25998304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25998304", "title": "Margaret Reeson", "text": "Margaret Reeson\n\nMargaret Reeson (nee Higman) (born 1938) is an Australian historian, biographer, and author, and prominent leader of the Uniting Church in Australia.\n\nReeson trained as a teacher, and began this career in 1957. She moved to Papua New Guinea in 1961, working in the Papua New Guinea Highlands as a teacher and missionary. She married Reverend Ron Reeson in 1966, at the time a minister of the Methodist Church of Australasia, and they continued as missionaries in PNG's Southern Highlands Province. From this time came a deep feeling for the history of PNG and Australia's involvement in that land and its people, notably during World War II. At this time, she began her research and literary life with \"Torn between two worlds\" (1972), a book about the effect of Christianity on the native peoples of the Southern Highlands.\nOn return to Australia in 1979, for Ron to take up ministry with the Central Belconnen Uniting Church in the Belconnen area of Canberra, Australian Capital Territory, Reeson commenced studies as an historian, and used her interest in PNG to research the stories of missionaries there during WW2. This work on the lives of Christian women has resulted in various published biographies, biographical novels, and Australian social history books, and the award of a Master of Arts by research from the Australian National University.\n\nReeson had a de facto leadership role in churches and ministries where her husband was the minister and, from 1987, senior minister for the Presbytery of Canberra Region. However, she also undertook training as a Lay Preacher, and achieved recognition through active involvement in a number of church councils, working groups, Boards and task groups within the Uniting Church in Australia, notably its New South Wales Synod, and was appointed as Moderator of the Synod for the term 2000-2002.\n\nThe Reesons have three adult children. Their daughter, Ruth Powell, is Director of the National Church Life Survey and a Professor at the Australian Catholic University.\n\nReeson's brother is Emeritus Professor Barry Higman, an historian with interests in historical geography and historical demography, with particular reference to Australia and the West Indies.\n\nReeson's published work includes:\n"}
{"id": "17149313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17149313", "title": "Mohammed ibn Qasim ibn Zakur", "text": "Mohammed ibn Qasim ibn Zakur\n\nAbu Abdallah Mohammed ibn Qasim ibn Zakur (died 1708) was a Moroccan poet, historian and travel writer from Fes. He was a pupil of the school of Abu Ali al-Hassan al-Yusi. He wrote poetry, history, biographies, travel accounts, and books on grammar, rhetoric, law and theology. One of his travel accounts is about a journey he made to Algeria in 1682. His poems were published in a diwan.\n\n"}
{"id": "30860996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30860996", "title": "Nicholas Mavrocordatos", "text": "Nicholas Mavrocordatos\n\nNicholas Mavrocordatos (, ; May 3, 1670 in ConstantinopleSeptember 3, 1730 in Bucharest) was a Greek member of the Mavrocordatos family, Grand Dragoman to the Divan (1697), and consequently the first Phanariote Hospodar of the Danubian Principalities - Prince of Moldavia, and Prince of Wallachia (both on two separate occasions). He was succeeded as Grand Dragoman (1709) by his brother John Mavrocordato (Ioan), who was for a short while hospodar in both Wallachia and Moldavia.\n\nDeposed as Grand Dragoman in Moldavia in favor of Dimitrie Cantemir, owing to the suspicions of his Ottoman overlord, Sultan Ahmed III, he was restored in 1711 (after Cantemir's rebellion during the Russo-Turkish War of 1710-1711), and, for this second rule, is considered the first in a line of Phanariotes in Moldavia (indicating that the election by the traditional Moldavian council of boyars was no longer enforced).\n\nSoon afterwards, he was replaced by Mihai Racoviță and became ruler of Wallachia, being thus the first Phanariote in that country – after the Porte decided to regulate the same system following the rebellion of Ștefan Cantacuzino. According to Anton Maria Del Chiaro, the Florentine secretary to Constantin Brâncoveanu (predecessor and rival of Ștefan Cantacuzino), Mavrocordatos tortured and otherwise persecuted Wallachian boyars who had supported the Cantacuzinos, and also ordered the execution of Ștefan's son. He was also noted for awarding tax exemptions to the majority of high-ranking boyars, as one of the first rulers to concede to the growth of monetary economy and the decay of manorialism.\n\nIn 1716, during the Austro-Turkish War, Mavrocordatos attempted to resist Habsburg invasion, but was betrayed by his boyars and had to flee to the Ottoman-held town of Rousse. He returned to Bucharest with Ottoman assistance, and executed a number of his adversaries, including Lupu Costachi, but was deposed by the troops of Prince Eugene of Savoy, and held prisoner in Sibiu.\n\nReplaced by his brother John until 1719, he was restored after the Peace of Passarowitz through which the country lost its westernmost part, Oltenia, to the Habsburgs; Nicholas' second ascension followed a period of major distress, including a bubonic plague outbreak and a major fire in Bucharest (it is possible that John himself had died as a result of the epidemic). Prince Nicholas died while in office in Bucharest; he was succeeded as prince of Wallachia in 1730 by his son Constantine Mavrocordatos, who would rule Wallachia six times and Moldavia five times until 1769.\n\nNicholas Mavrocordatos was the first in a line of rulers appointed directly by the Porte. He introduced Greek manners, the Greek language and Greek costume, and set up a splendid court on the Byzantine model. At the same time, Mavrocordatos was influenced by the Age of Enlightenment, the founder of libraries, the builder of the monumental Văcărești Monastery and of the Stavropoleos Church, and himself the author of an original work entitled \"Peri kathekonton / Liber de Officiis\" (Bucharest, 1719). He wrote also the first Greek novel, \"Philotheou Parerga / The Leisures of Philotheos\".\nA polyglot, he surrounded himself with savants from several parts of Europe, including the Daniel de Fonseca and Stephan Bergler; his library was among the continent's most treasured. Mavrocordatos engaged in a correspondence with major religious figures of his time, including Jean Leclerc, William Wake, Archbishop of Canterbury, and Chrysanthus, Orthodox Patriarch of Jerusalem; the first volume written by an author from the Danubian Principalities to be published in England was Mavrocordatos', and it is during his last rule in Wallachia that a more intimate knowledge of politics and society in the Kingdom of Great Britain became evident in historical records kept by locals (the chronicler Radu Popescu recorded the ascension of George II as King of Great Britain).\n\n"}
{"id": "9037676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9037676", "title": "Nineveh plains", "text": "Nineveh plains\n\nNineveh Plains (, and Modern ; ; ) is a region in Iraq's Nineveh Governorate to the north and east of the city Mosul, from which it is also known as the Plain of Mosul. It was formerly known as the Plain of Sanjar or Sinjar from its major medieval settlement. It was the location of al-Khwārizmī's determination of a degree during the reign of the caliph al-Mamun. \n\nPart of the Assyrian homeland, the area also includes the ruins of the ancient Assyrian cities of Nineveh, Nimrud, and Dur-Sharrukin as well as numerous ancient religious sites such as Mar Mattai Monastery, Rabban Hormizd Monastery, the Tomb of Nahum, and the Yezidi Lalish.\n\nNineveh Plains lie to the east, northeast of the city of Mosul in the Iraqi Ninawa Province. The ancient city of Nineveh stood where the eastern outskirts of Mosul are today, on the bank of the Tigris river. The villages on the eastern part of the plains are inhabited by minority religious groups that are non-Muslim. Most of these inhabitants are Christian Assyrians. \n\nThe Nineveh plains are not only the historical homeland of the Assyrian people and a crucible of pre-Arab and Kurd pre-Islamic Mesopotamian civilisation, but it is a province where a majority of the population is currently drawn from the minorities, around half of whom are Assyrians.\n\nPeutinger's map of the inhabited world known to the Roman geographers depicts Singara as located west of the \"\" (, \"Persian troglodytes\") who inhabited the territory around Mount Sinjar. By the medieval Arabs, most of the plain was reckoned as part of the province of Diyār Rabīʿa, the \"abode of the Rabīʿa\" tribe. The plain was the site of the determination of the degree by al-Khwārizmī and other astronomers during the reign of the caliph al-Mamun. Sinjar also boasted a famous Assyrian cathedral in the 8th century.\n\nFollowing the concerted attacks on Assyrians in Iraq, especially highlighted by the Sunday, August 1, 2004 simultaneous bombing of six Churches (Baghdad and Mosul) and subsequent bombing of nearly thirty other churches throughout the country, Assyrian leadership, internally and externally, began to regard the Nineveh Plain as the location where security for Christians may be possible. Schools especially received much attention in this area and in Kurdish areas where Assyrian concentrated population lives. In addition, agriculture and medical clinics received financial help from the Assyrian diaspora.\n\nAs attacks on Christians increased in Basra, Baghdad, Ramadi and smaller towns. more families turned northward to the extended family holdings in the Nineveh Plain. This place of refuge remains underfunded and gravely lacking in infrastructure to aid the ever-increasing internally displaced people population.\n\nIn February 2010, the attacks against Assyrians in Mosul forced 4,300 Assyrians to flee to the Nineveh plains where there is an Assyrian-majority population. From 2012, it also began receiving influxes of Assyrians from Syria owing to the civil war there.\n\nIn August 2014 nearly all of the non-Sunni inhabitants of the southern regions of the Plains were driven out by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant during the 2014 Northern Iraq offensive.\n\nThe Chaldean and Syriac inhabited towns and villages on the Nineveh Plain form a concentration of those belonging to Syriac Christian traditions, and since this area is the ancient home of the Assyrian empire through which the people trace their cultural heritage, the Nineveh Plain is the area on which an effort to form an has become concentrated. There have been calls by some politicians inside and outside Iraq to create an autonomous region for Assyrians in this area.\n\nIn the Transitional Administrative Law adopted in March 2004 in Baghdad, not only were provisions made for the preservation of Assyrian culture through education and media, but a provision for an administrative unit also was accepted. Article 125 in Iraq's Constitution states that: \"This Constitution shall guarantee the administrative, political, cultural, and educational rights of the various nationalities, such as Turkomen, Chaldeans, Assyrians, and all other constituents, and this shall be regulated by law.\" Since the towns and villages on the Nineveh Plain form a concentration of those belonging to Syriac Christian traditions, and since this area is the ancient home of the Assyrian empire through which these people trace their cultural heritage, the Nineveh Plain is the area on which the effort to form an autonomous Assyrian entity have become concentrated. \nThe same article has been used to proclaim an autonomous province for the Yezidi people. \n\nOn January 21, 2014, the Iraqi government had declared that Nineveh Plains would become a new province, which would serve as a safe haven for Assyrians.\n\nAfter the liberation of the Nineveh Plain from ISIL between 2016/17, all Assyrian political parties called on the European Union and UN Security Council for the creation of an Assyrian self-administered province in the Nineveh Plain. \n\nBetween the 28th-30th of June, 2017, a conference was held in Brussels dubbed, \"The Future for Christians in Iraq\". The conference was organised by the European People's Party and had participants extending from Assyrian/Chaldean/Syriac organizations, including representatives from the Iraqi government and the KRG. The conference was boycotted by the Assyrian Democratic Movement, Sons of Mesopotamia, Assyrian Patriotic Party, Chaldean Catholic Church and Assyrian Church of the East. A position paper was signed by the remaining political organizations involved. \n\nThe Nineveh Plains is the only region in Iraq where a plurality of inhabitants follow Syriac Christianity. Before ISIS invaded Nineveh, Assyrians made up around 40% of the population within the plains. The five patriarchal churches represented are:\n\nThe area is considered by its Assyrian inhabitants as being the original Assyrian heartland. Other inhabitants are the Yazidis, Shabaks, Turkmens and Kurds.\n\nThe Nineveh Plain appears to hold under its rich agricultural lands an extension of the petroleum fields tapped in 2006 by the Kurdish Regional Government in direct contract with foreign oil exploration companies. It is believed that this added incentive for absorption by the KRG of the region may lead to economic conflict with Sunni Arab tribes in the Mosul region itself. Assyrians claim that without Nineveh Plain autonomous administration, the indigenous Assyrian presence in its ancient homeland could well disappear. There are some oil reserves in Nineveh Plains.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11534568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11534568", "title": "Register (art)", "text": "Register (art)\n\nIn art and archaeology, in sculpture as well as in painting, a register is a horizontal level in a work that consists of several levels arranged one above the other, especially where the levels are clearly separated by lines. Modern comic books typically use similar conventions. It is thus comparable to a row, or a line in modern texts. In the study of ancient writing, such as cuneiform and Egyptian hieroglyphs, \"register\" may be used of vertical compartments like columns containing writing that are arranged side by side and separated by lines, especially in cylinder seals, which often mix text and images. Normally, when dealing with images it only refers to row compartments stacked vertically. \n\nAmong many other cultures, the use of registers is common in Ancient Egyptian art, from the Narmer Palette onwards, and in medieval art in large frescos and illuminated manuscripts. Narrative art, especially covering the lives of sacred figures, is often presented as a sequence of small scenes arranged in registers. \n\nSculpted Luwian language hieroglyphs were also usually arranged in registers one above the other. The direction of reading ran from one of the top corners, and reversed direction in each lower register, so that the reader did not have to start at the other end of each new row. Other examples, in the art of Mesopotamia, are Kudurru, or boundary stones, which often had registers of gods on the upper registers of the scenes.\n"}
{"id": "19572552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19572552", "title": "Risto Alapuro", "text": "Risto Alapuro\n\nRisto Sakari Alapuro, born 28 April 1944 in Ruokolahti, is a Finnish sociologist. He was a professor of sociology at University of Jyväskylä between 1986-1991, and a professor at Helsinki University from 1991 to 2010.\n\nAlapuro is an internationally known social scientist who has focused on historical sociology in Finland. He has researched, studied and taught in France, Russia and the United States. He is specialized in social movements, political conflicts and social networks.\n\nHe wrote his doctoral dissertation \"Akateeminen Karjala-Seura\" in (1973). His other works include \"State and revolution in Finland\" (1988), which concerns the Finnish civil war, and \"Suomen synty paikallisena ilmiönä 1890-1933\" (1994), which is about the birth of Finnish nationhood as a local phenomenon.\n\n"}
{"id": "44705210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44705210", "title": "Second United Nations Emergency Force", "text": "Second United Nations Emergency Force\n\nThe second United Nations Emergency Forces (UNEF II) was established by United Nations General Assembly, in accordance with United Nations Security Council Resolution 340 (1973), to supervise the ceasefire between Egyptian and Israeli forces at the end of Yom Kippur War (also known as the October War), and following of the agreement of 18January 1974 and 4September 1975, to supervise the redeployment of Egyptian and Israeli forces and to man and control the buffer zones established under those agreements.\n\nThe mandate of UNEF II was to supervise the implementation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 340 which demanded that an immediate and complete ceasefire between Egyptian and Israeli forces be observed and that the parties return to the positions they had occupied at 1650 hours GMT on 22October 1973. The Force would use its best efforts to prevent a recurrence of the fighting, and in the fulfillment of its tasks it would have the cooperation of the military observers of the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO). UNEF II was also to cooperate with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) in its humanitarian endeavours in the area.\nThe mandate of UNEF II which was originally approved for six months, until 24April 1974, was subsequently renewed eight times. Each time, as the date of expiry of the mandate approached, the Secretary-General submitted a report to the United Nations Security Council on the activities of the Force during the period of the mandate. In each of those reports, the Secretary-General expressed the view that the continued presence of UNEF II in the area was essential, and he recommended, after consultations with the parties, that its mandate be extended for a further period. In each case, the Council took note of the Secretary-General's report and decided to extend the mandate of the Force accordingly. In October 1978, the mandate of UNEF II was extended a last time for nine months, until 24July 1979.\nThe area of operation of the UNEF II was at Suez Canal sector and later the Sinai Peninsula, with the headquarters located at Cairo (October 1973 to August 1974) and Ismaïlia (August 1974 – July 1979). The deployment of forces as of July 1979 was as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53192064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53192064", "title": "Stolpersteine in Prague-Josefov", "text": "Stolpersteine in Prague-Josefov\n\nThe Stolpersteine in Prague-Josefov lists the Stolpersteine in the town quarter Josefov of Prague, the former Jewish quarter of the city. Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fate of the Nazi victims being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide.\n\nGenerally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self-chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Czech is: \"Kameny zmizelých\", stones of the disappeareds.\n\nJosefov () is a town quarter and the smallest cadastral area of Prague, formerly the Jewish quarter of the town. It is completely surrounded by the Old Town (Czech: \"Staré Město pražské\"). Jews supposedly settled in Prague as early as the 10th century. In 1096 the first pogrom (the first crusade) took place. Eventually all Jews were concentrated within the Ghetto, shut off from the outside world by fortified walls with gates (1230–1530). As early as in the 11th, 12th and 13th century, Prague developed into a center of rabbinical scholarship and formed a school of Tosafists. In 1262 Přemysl Otakar II issued a \"Statuta Judaeorum\" which granted the community a certain degree of self-administration. On Easter Sunday of 1389 one of the worst pogroms took place, the probable number of victims during the massacre range from about 500 to more than 3,000.\nThe ghetto was most prosperous towards the end of the 16th century and at the beginning of the 17th century when Judah Loew ben Bezalel served as Rabbi, when a Yeshiva was founded and when the Jewish Mayor, Mordecai Maisel, became the Minister of Finance. The very wealthy man helped develop the ghetto. By then, Prague was seen as a Hebrew metropolis in Central Europe. By 1638 the Jewish population of Prague had increased to more than 7.800. In 1744 Empress Maria Theresa ordered all Jews to leave the city. Four years later they were allowed to return. In 1848 Jews were granted permission to settle also outside the ghetto. The small district supposedly housed about 18,000 inhabitants at a certain time. Soon the wealthy Jews moved to less crowded areas. In 1850 the quarter was renamed \"Josefstadt\" (Joseph's City) after Emperor Joseph II who emancipated Jews with the Toleration Edict in 1781. Gradually the share of the Jewish population in Josefov decreased, with mainly orthodox and poor Jews remaining there. Between 1893 and 1913 most of the quarter was demolished as part of a restoration of the city following the model of Paris. Due to protests of inhabitants six synagogues could be saved, furthermore the old cemetery and the Old Jewish Town Hall. They are now all part of the Jewish Museum in Prague. A new boulevard with luxurious buildings and shops was created, the Paris Street (Czech: \"Parížská\"). Only rich Jews could afford housing in the newly built blocks, the poorer ones moved away. Josefov lost its traditional identity and the quarter was integrated in the Old Town.\n\nIn the 19th century, Jews got caught up in the culture wars between Czech-speaking middle class and German-speaking members of the Austro-Hungarian empire. Beginning in the 1830s many Jews began to adopt the German language and tried hard to assimilate. In the 1870s, however, Czech nationalism increased substantially and by the last quarter of the 19th Century, a network of Czech-Jewish institutions was created. Not all Jews supported this trend, many remained faithful to German language and culture while others favored the upcoming Zionism. Conflict between the Zionists and the Czech Jewish nationalists evolved and the Jewish community was deeply divided. German speaking and writing Jews as Franz Kafka, Max Brod and Franz Werfel became world-famous novelists of the early 20th century.\n\nImmediately after the destruction of Czechoslovakia by Hitler and the unlawful invasion of Nazi troupes in Prague all Czech Jews became victims of several sanctions. In June 1939, Adolf Eichmann arrived in Prague, confiscated a Jewish villa in Stresovice and established \"The Central Office for Jewish Emigration\". He forced the Jewish representatives Emil Kafka and Jakob Edelstein to comply with all his orders. At that time approximately 56,000 Jews lived in Prague. They were step by step excluded from economic life, deprived of their property, segregated in Prague restaurants and prohibited from using public baths and swimming pools. They were excluded from the movie and theatre industries, restricted to the back of the second car on Prague trams and excluded from all hotels except the Fiser and the Star. They had to wear the Judenstern and were banned from public service and all social, cultural and economic organizations. In August 1940 Jewish children were excluded from Czech schools and in October Jews were denied access to a wide range of rationed goods. On 10 October 1941 Reinhard Heydrich, Karl Hermann Frank and Eichmann developed the plan to deport all Jews from the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia to Łódź Ghetto, Minsk and Riga, and to establish Theresienstadt concentration camp. The Holocaust had begun.\nThe quarter is often represented by the flag of Prague's Jewish community, a yellow Magen David (Star of David) on a red field.\n\nA scientifically correct list of all Stolpersteine in Prague does not exist. Neither the artist, nor the organizers of the collocations do know exactly how many Stolpersteine have been posed in Prague and where they have been collocated. The website \"stolpersteine.cz\" all of a sudden disappeared in late 2016. Therefore, this list constitutes a work-in-progress. Step by step all Prague districts will be visited and all available addresses will be checked. Nevertheless, at this point we cannot guarantee that the list below contains all Stolpersteine of Josefov. You can help by adding reliable sources and additional information — either on this page or on the talk page. If you have general remarks please use the talk page of the .\n\nThe following memorial plaques have not been created by Gunter Demnig, they constitute imitations. Their inscriptions are not in Czech language but in English and the engravings were not done by hand but mechanically. The collocation dates are unknown, but as there is a picture from 25 January 2010 with the memorial plaques already in place the collocations must have happened before that date.\n\nThe now defunct website \"stolpersteine.cz\" included in their list also stumbling blocks for Gabriele Hermannová and Otílie Davidová, two of the three sisters of novelist Franz Kafka. These Stolpersteine were listed with the address Bílkova 132/4. Several tourists were misled and could not find the memorial plaques. The three Stolpersteine for two of the Kafka sisters and their maid were produced but never collocated. For unknown reasons the family had withdrawn its consent shortly before the collocation.\n\nAccording to the website of Gunter Demnig the Stolpersteine of Prague were posed by the artist himself on the following days: \n\nA further collocation occurred on 28 October 2012, but is not mentioned on Demnig's page. \n\nThe Czech Stolperstein project was initiated in 2008 by the \"Česká unie židovské mládeže\" (Czech Union of Jewish Youth) and was realized with the patronage of the Mayor of Prague.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36398536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36398536", "title": "Tarikh Yamini", "text": "Tarikh Yamini\n\nThe Tarikh i Yamini, or Kitab i Yamini, written in Arabic in an embellished, flowery rhetorical rhymed prose, is a history of the reigns of Sebuktigin and Mahmud up to 1020. Written by the historian Abu Nasr Muhammad ibn Muhammad al Jabbaru-l 'Utbi (or \"al-Utbi\"), the Tarikh Yamini also contains information chronicling Sultan Mahmud's expeditions as well as the end of the Samanid \"Amirs\" of Sistan. Al-Utbi, being Mahmud's secretary, did not accompany the sultan, therefore his topography is deficient and his writing style consists of an explicit orthodox nature. He also states that he intentionally suppressed many events, unnatural or strange that he found skeptical, that did not fit the objectives he had set down in the preface.\n\nThe Tarikh Yamini starts in 965 CE, but the Samanids are not mentioned until Nuh ibn Mansur's reign in 976, while it goes into detail about the Buyids prior to 983. During the Qarakhanid invasion of the Samanid kingdom in 991, the \"Tarikh Yamini\" states that the Samanid governor Fa'iq, son of Simjurid Abu'l-Hasan Simjuri, invited Hasan b. Sulayman{Bughra Khan} to invade Bukhara.\n\nAl-Utbi states when Sebuktigin invaded Afghanistan, that the \"Afghans\" were pagans given to rapine and rapacity, and that Sebuktigin defeated and converted them to Islam.\n\nThe \"Tarikh Yamini\", asserts that at the time of Mahmud's invasion of Ghur, that the rulers and people of Ghor were \"heathens\".\n\nThough, plagued by incorrect dates and incorrect topography, the \"Tarikh Yamini\" does contain valuable information concerning Sultan Mahmud's invasions of India.\n\nOn Mahmud's 12th expedition to India in 1018-1019, the \"Tarikh i Yamini\" states, he brought back so many slaves that, \"merchants came from distant cities to purchase them, so that the countries Ma wara' an nahr (central Asia), Iraq and Khurasan were filled with them, and the fair and the dark, the rich and the poor, mingled in one common slavery.\".\n\nThe 13th century Persian translation of the Tarikh i Yamini, by Jurbadqani, takes many liberties and introduces images not found in the original and can be considered an independent work of art, but is a reliable copy of the narrative.\n\nThe \"Tarikh i Yamini\" was translated from Persian into English in 1858 by James Reynolds under the title, \"Kitab-i-Yamini\".\n"}
{"id": "2636347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2636347", "title": "Tie clip", "text": "Tie clip\n\nA tie clip (also tie slide, tie bar, or tie clasp) is a clothing accessory that is used to clip a tie to the underlying shirt front, preventing it from swinging and ensuring that the tie hangs straight, resulting in a neat, uniform appearance.\n\nTie clips are commonly made of metal and often have decorative patterns or embellishments. Some clips have a small badge indicating membership to a club or some other affiliation, or some other commemorative token, in a similar manner to the way in which ties themselves may be used as signs of membership. The use of tie clips gained prominence during the 1920s, during which period the use of straight ties made of delicate materials such as silk became more fashionable, and they largely came to replace the more traditional tie pin.\n\nIn the United States, a tie clip is one of the few items of jewelry allowed to be worn by servicemen and women.\n\n"}
{"id": "316067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316067", "title": "Tulagi", "text": "Tulagi\n\nTulagi, less commonly known as Tulaghi, is a small island (5.5 km by 1 km) in Solomon Islands, just off the south coast of Ngella Sule. The town of the same name on the island (pop. 1,750) was the capital of the British Solomon Islands Protectorate from 1896 to 1942 and is today the capital of the Central Province. The capital of what is now the state of Solomon Islands moved to Honiara, Guadalcanal, after World War II.\n\nThe island was originally chosen by the British as a comparatively isolated and healthier alternative to the disease-ridden larger islands of the Solomon Islands archipelago.\n\nThe first recorded sighting by Europeans was by the Spanish expedition of Álvaro de Mendaña on 16 April 1568. More precisely the sighting was due to a local voyage done by a small boat, in the accounts the brigantine \"Santiago\", commanded by \"Maestre de Campo\" Pedro Ortega Valencia and having Hernán Gallego as pilot.\n\nThe Japanese occupied Tulagi on May 3, 1942, with the intention of establishing a seaplane base nearby (see Japanese Tulagi landing). The ships in Tulagi harbor were raided by planes from the following day in a prelude to the Battle of the Coral Sea.\n\nU.S. forces, primarily the 1st Marine Raiders, landed on August 7 and captured Tulagi as part of Operation Watchtower after a day of hard fighting.\n\nAfter its capture by Naval and Marine forces, the island hosted a squadron of PT boats for a year which included LTJG John F. Kennedy's PT-109, as well as other ancillary facilities. A small 20-bed dispensary was operated on Tulagi until its closure in 1946. The island also formed part of Purvis Bay, which hosted many US Navy ships during 1942 and 1943.\n\nThe present-day Tulagi has a fishing fleet.\n\nTulagi offers some excellent scuba diving. The wrecks of USS \"Aaron Ward\", USS \"Kanawha\", and HMNZS \"Moa\" are close by, and the wrecks of Ironbottom Sound are not much further off. The \"Ward\" is considered to be one of the world's great wreck dives; the hull lies on a sandy bottom at , which is about deeper than one can safely dive on compressed air. The \"Ward\" lies upright and intact, the deck replete with artifacts.\n\nTulagi is developing a tourism industry based on scuba.\n"}
{"id": "61161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=61161", "title": "United Nations Truce Supervision Organization", "text": "United Nations Truce Supervision Organization\n\nThe United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO) is an organization founded on 29 May 1948<ref name=\"s/res/73\">UN Doc S/RES/73 (1949) S/1376, II 11 August 1949 UN Security Council Resolution 73</ref> for peacekeeping in the Middle East. Its primary task was providing the military command structure to the peace keeping forces in the Middle East to enable the peace keepers to observe and maintain the cease-fire, and as may be necessary in assisting the parties to the Armistice Agreements in the supervision of the application and observance of the terms of those Agreements. The command structure of the UNTSO was maintained to cover the later peace keeper organisations of the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF) and the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL).\n\nIn response to a request from Count Folke Bernadotte, United Nations Mediator for Palestine, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Trygve Lie, sent 50 members of the United Nations guard force from Lake Success to assist the Mediator in supervising the Truce in the former British Mandate of Palestine in 1948 and the \"UNTSO\", the first peacekeeping operation was established by the United Nations. All the members of the party were experienced international civil servants with a background of service with the United Nations Secretariat at Headquarters. While on duty in Palestine, they were to continue to wear United Nations guard uniforms. UNTSO military observers remain in the Middle East to monitor ceasefires, supervise armistice agreements, prevent isolated incidents from escalating and assist other UN peacekeeping operations in the region.\nThis resolution formed the basis for the establishment of the first United Nations peace-keeping operation which became known as the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization UNTSO\nIn November 1947, the United Nations General Assembly endorsed a plan for the partition of the then British Mandate of Palestine, providing for the creation of an Arab State and a Jewish State, with Jerusalem to be placed in Trusteeship with international status. The plan was not accepted by the Palestinian Arabs and Arab States and only partially accepted by the Jewish Agency of Palestine. On 14 May 1948, the United Kingdom relinquished its mandate over Palestine and the State of Israel was proclaimed. On the following day, the Arab States invaded Palestine Mandate territory.\n\nOn 14 May 1948, the Assembly adopts resolution 186 (S-2), which affirms its support for the efforts of the Security Council to secure a truce in Palestine; decides to appoint a U.N. Mediator. Count Folke Bernadotte of Sweden was appointed. And sent him to Palestine. On 22 May 1948, the Security Council adopts resolution 49 (1948), calling for an abstention from any hostile military action in Palestine. The resolution also calls upon the parties to facilitate the task of the U.N. Mediator.\n\nOn 23 May 1948 Thomas C. Wasson, US Consul and member of the UN Truce Commission was assassinated in Jerusalem.\n\nOn 29 May 1948, UN Security Council Resolution 50 (1948), called for a cessation of hostilities in Palestine and decided that the truce should be supervised by the UN Mediator, Count Folke Bernadotte of Wisborg, with the assistance of a group of military observers. The first group of military observers, which has become known as the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO), arrived in the region in June 1948, when the Security Council threatened Chapter VII intervention. To enforce the first of two truces, lasting four weeks, the UN then established an observer formation, with members drawn from Belgium, France, and the United States. On 6 July the UN observers had their first casualty with the death of the French Observer Commandant Rene de Labarriere, who was wounded near the Afoula area and later died in the Jewish Hospital at Afoula. He was wounded while investigating an alleged violation of the truce provisions by Jewish forces. In 1949, UNTSO military observers remained to supervise the 1949 Armistice Agreements between Israel and its Arab neighbours, which were for many years the main basis of the uneasy truce in the whole area.\n\nThe Mediator was instructed on 29 May 1948 to create a one-month truce in Palestine. The Mediator concept was teamed with the Truce Commission for supervisory over-watch of the Truce Plan. As a result, the Mediator and the Truce Commission would be provided with a number of military observers which set a precedent for today's assignment of UNMO's (United Nations Military Observers) in the Middle East.\n\nThe month-long truce went into effect on 11 June, 1948. On the same day, the first group of 36 observers arrived via Cairo, Egypt and continued to arrive for the next three days. The first truce did not last long due to widespread violence which again erupted. As a result, the observers were withdrawn on 9 July 1948. The second truce, indefinite in length, was called by the United Nations Security Council on 15 July 1948. This declaration was to be put into effect on 18 July 1948. It was from Security Council Resolution 54 that the Mediator was instructed to supervise the observance of the truce and to establish procedures for examining alleged breaches of the truce since 11 June 1948, and authorized the Mediator to deal with breaches so far as it was within the capacity of the Mediator to do so by appropriate local action, also the Security Council Resolution 54 requested the Mediator to keep the Security Council informed concerning the operation of the truce and where necessary to take appropriate action. During the autumn of 1948, UNTSO was re-established with an increase in size to supervise the Second Truce. The first group of observers to serve in Palestine under the UN Mediator, Count Folke Bernadotte, arrived in Rhodes at 6 P.M. GMT 20 July. It included 41 Americans and about 25 Belgians and were deployed on 21 July 1948. The initial group was quickly expanded to 93 in total because of the tremendous area that had to be covered. As the number of personnel grew, the United Nations Secretariat (of Personnel) supported the creation of the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO), the same organization UN Military Observers are assigned to today. Initially, the command was headed by a Chief-of-Staff (a general officer from one of the participating countries) in accordance with the personal direction of the Mediator, (a civilian).\n\nOn 17 September 1948, UN Mediator Count Folke Bernadotte, and Colonel André Serot while on an official tour of duty to Jerusalem were murdered \"in cold blood... in the Katamon quarter of Jerusalem by Jewish assailants.\" Ralphe Bunche, Chief of the UN Mission in Palestine in his letter to the Israeli Foreign Minister Moshe Shertok wrote \"is an outrage against the international community and an unspeakable violation of elementary morality. His safety, therefore, and that of his Lieutenants under the ordinary rules of law and order was a responsibility of the Provisional government of Israel whose armed forces and representatives control and administer the area. The act constitutes a breach of the truce of the utmost gravity for which the Provisional Government of Israel must assume full responsibility.\"\nProvisional Government of Israel did not submit the report to the Security Council or to the Acting Mediator regarding the progress of the investigation into the assassination of Count Bernadotte.\n\nAfter assassination, the talks between the warring parties began under the supervision of the Acting Mediator, Ralph Bunche.\nThe General Armistice Agreements (GAAs) came out of the Mediator-chaired talks. UNTSO's activities have been and still are spread over territory within five States, and therefore it has relations with five host countries -- Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon and Syrian Arab Republic. Since then, UNTSO has also supervised the General Armistice Agreements of 1949 and the observation of the ceasefire in the Suez Canal area and the Golan Heights following the Six-Day War of June 1967.\n\nOn 11 August 1949 it was decided by the Security Council that the mediators function had been completed and that the role in observing the ceasefire should be passed to the Chief of Staff of the UNTSO.\n\nCairo was the initial Headquarters of UNTSO. The UNTSO's HQ was moved, shortly after its creation, to Haifa (British enclave in this time), in late June 1948. The Haifa HQ was evacuated on 9 July due to renewed fighting. With the return of UN peacekeeping forces to Israel on 21 July 1948 the Headquarters for UNTSO was moved again on 7 October 1948 for the third and final time to the Commissioner's Palace in Jerusalem.\n\nUNTSO has offices in Beirut and Damascus.\n\nCountries contributing military resources to UNTSO include, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Chile, the People's Republic of China, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Ireland, Italy, Nepal, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Russia (formerly the Soviet Union), Slovenia, Slovakia, Sweden, Switzerland, and the US.\n\n29 May has been designated as the \"International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers\" by the UN. 29 May 2008 being the sixtieth anniversary of United Nations Peacekeeping Forces being deployed.\n\nSixty years ago on that date, the United Nations Security Council established the first peacekeeping operation, the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization (UNTSO), based in the Middle East. In 2001, the General Assembly proclaimed 29 May as the International Day of United Nations Peacekeepers to pay tribute to the men and women who serve in United Nations peacekeeping operations and honour the memory of those who have lost their lives in the cause of peace.\n\nFollowing the wars of 1948, 1956, 1967 and 1973, the functions of the observers changed in the light of changing circumstances, but they remained in the area, acting as go-betweens for the hostile parties and as the means by which isolated incidents could be contained and prevented from escalating into major conflicts.\n\nOn 29 November 1947 the United Nations General Assembly adopted Resolution 181 on 'The future constitution and government of Palestine' setting forth a 'Plan of Partition with Economic Union'. The result of the vote was 33 in favor, 13 against and 10 abstentions. The report consisted of four parts:\nIt called for the creation of Arab and Jewish states no later than 1 October 1948, with Jerusalem as \"corpus separatum\" under an international regime to be administered by the U.N. with the Trusteeship Council being the designated body in this regard. The plan also included steps to be taken prior to independence, including the issues of citizenship, transit, economic union between the two states, access to holy places and religious and minority rights. Resolution 181 (II) also establishes the United Nations Palestine Commission to carry out the plan. The Trusteeship Council was to administer Palestine for ten years.\n\nAs the disorders in Palestine increased The Security Council voted on and adopted Resolution 42 (1948) of 5 March 1948, appealing to all governments and peoples, particularly in and around Palestine, to take all possible action to prevent or reduce such disorders as were occurring in Palestine. The Trusteeship Council decided on 10 March 1948 in resolution 32 (II) \"that the statute on Jerusalem was in satisfactory form and agrees that the question of its formal approval, together with the appointment of a governor of the city, shall be taken up at a subsequent meeting to be held not later than one week before 29 April 1948\", the deadline given to the Council by the Assembly (on 21 April 1948, the Trusteeship Council transmitted The Resolution Along With The Draft Statute To The General Assembly).\nThe situation in Palestine was becoming even more chaotic when the Security Council met on 1 April 1948 it adopted Resolution 43 (1948), calling for an \"immediate truce be effected in Palestine\" and calls for \"the Jewish Agency for Palestine and the Arab Higher Committee to make representatives available to the Security Council for the purpose of arranging a truce between the Arab and Jewish communities of Palestine; and emphasizes the heavy responsibility which would fall upon any party failing to observe such a truce\". The Security Council adopts Resolution 44 (1948). Invoking Article 20 of the U.N. Charter on 1 April 1948 where the Security Council requested the Secretary-General to convoke a special session of the General Assembly to consider further the future of the government of Palestine. By 17 April 1948 the situation in Palestine had deteriorated further and the Security Council adopted Resolution 46 (1948), calling upon all persons and organizations in Palestine to immediately cease all military activities, as well as acts of violence, terrorism and sabotage; to refrain from any actions endangering the safety of the Holy Places in Palestine and refrain from importing or acquiring or assisting or encouraging the importation or acquisition of weapons and war materials (arms embargo). It also requests the government of the U.K., as the Mandatory Power, to supervise the execution of these measures and to keep the Security Council and the General Assembly informed on the situation in Palestine.\nThe General Assembly then convened for its second special session between 16 April to 14 May 1948, during which it considers a working paper submitted by the United States (U.S.) on the question of the \"Trusteeship of Palestine\", which was opposed by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (U.S.S.R.) as well as the Jewish Agency.\n\nThe Assembly adopted resolution 185 (S-2) of 26 April 1948, asking the Trusteeship Council to study measures for the protection of Jerusalem, its inhabitants and to submit proposals to the General Assembly.\n\nOn 14 May 1948, the Assembly adopted resolution 186 (S-2), which affirmed its support for the efforts of the Security Council to secure a truce in Palestine; decided to appoint a U.N. Mediator in Palestine and specifies the functions of the Mediator; and relieved the Palestine Commission from further \"exercise of responsibilities\" under resolution 181 (II). Count Folke Bernadotte of Sweden is appointed Mediator. After receiving proposals from the Trusteeship Council, the Assembly adopted resolution 187 (S-2), recommending to the Mandatory Power the appointment of a Special Municipal Commissioner for Jerusalem.\n\nOn 14 May 1948, a Jewish state, Israel is proclaimed, one day before the mandate expired and just before the General Assembly began a discussion on the main resolution containing the U.S. idea on the trusteeship of Palestine. The U.S. government recognizes the Jewish state as does the U.S.S.R. War breaks out in Palestine. Several Arab armies engaged the Jewish forces of the Provisional Government of Israel.\n\nThe period from August 1949 to June 1956 was initially chaotic but quickly settled into a routine of complaints on the Jordanian, Egyptian, Syrian and Lebanese fronts. It was initially possible for the UN personnel to deal with complaints of violations of the \"Truce\" at the Local Commander level. As time progressed there arose a culture of claim and counter claim by the participating parties and regardless of the hard work and genuine intent of UNTSO the intensity of the violent incidents increased. The GAAs had been hastily prepared in anticipation of an early peace along the lines of the 1947 Partition Plan and the primary concern was an end to the bloodshed at the earliest opportunity. As a result, the Armistice lines had been poorly laid out temporary boundaries marked out without thought to existing village boundaries or water rights. The Armistice Agreements were of a purely military character, intended to provide a transitional stage between the truce and a final peace. They constitute, in effect, non-aggression agreements of unlimited duration, but they contain in themselves no provision for establishing normal relations between the neighbouring countries. The Armistice lines did not follow the fighting lines in all cases especially the Syrian Armistice line. And in the case of the Egyptian Armistice line Israel forces carried on with a push South arriving at Umm Rashrash (Eilat) in March after the Egyptian Israel GAA of 24 February 1949. This caused friction on setting the \"Truce Lines\". The contribution toward the foundation of a peaceful existence by the Mixed Armistice Commissions (MACs) was limited by the sanctions that the MACs were able to apply (a formal condemnation by the Security Council). For approximately 18 years, (from 1949 until after the 1967 War), lack of harmony within the MACs was typical of the relationship existing between the countries. With the exception of the Israeli-Lebanon MAC, strife and discord became common.\n\nThe MACs were very different from one another, bringing about four unique peacekeeping missions under the head of the UNTSO. Disputes on the Israel/Syria Mixed Armistice Commission (ISMAC) centred on the most precious Middle Eastern commodity: water and sovereignty of the DMZ. Contentious issues in the HKJIMAC principally concerned the divided city of Jerusalem, the Israeli Mount Scopus enclave, the Latrun salient (sovereignty of the DMZ), Arab infiltration across the armistice demarcation line and large scale Israeli military incursions into Jordanian territory. The troubles soon bloomed the Infiltration by the displaced Arabs, followed by raids of reprisal and intimidation by the Israelis, soon had the borders crackling with tension. The infiltration by Palestinians was initially unarmed groups crossing to regain possessions, harvest their crops or visit relatives; later infiltrations became armed individuals and then progressing into small retaliatory raids. As Pasha Glubb explained:-\n\nSome deep psychological urge which impels a peasant to cling to and die on his land. A great many of these wretched people are killed now, picking their own oranges and olives just beyond the line. The value of the fruit is often negligible. If the Jewish patrols see him he is shot dead on the spot, without questions. But they will persist in returning to their farms and gardens.\nIsraeli infiltration into Jordanian Territory being organised retaliatory raids by military units such as occurred at Qibya and Nahhalin raids. Israel's frustration with the UN and the other parties led to their withdrawal from ISMAC in 1951 and HKJIMAC in 1954. The functioning of the Israel Lebanon MAC remained smooth due to the more relaxed attitude of the Israeli patrols towards returnees and infiltrators. Disputes with Egypt, who banned Israel-bound shipping from the Suez Canal and blockaded the Gulf of Aqaba, pertained to the al-Auja DMZ. By 1955, Egypt sponsoring of the Palestinian fedayeen (self-sacrificer) raids cause Israel to cease attending the Egyptian MAC and stepped up raids into the Gaza Strip and Sinai, which result Egypt arm the fedayeen. From 21 September 1955, the Egypt/Israel Demilitarized Zone was occupied by Israel armed forces, Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld and the Chief of Staff UNTSO had engaged in efforts to secure the implementation of a plan for withdrawal of Israel armed forces and removal of Egyptian Forces from prohibited positions. Articles VII and VIII of the Egypt-Israel GAA established a Demilitarized Zone (DMZ) centred on El-Auja and forbade the presence of armed forces it also prohibited Egypt from maintaining positions in an adjoining area west of the Demilitarized Zone, and limited the arms and troops in the Defensive Areas on both sides of the Line. Both Egypt and Israel had indicated to the Secretary-General their willingness to comply fully with these two articles, within the framework of a return to full compliance with the Armistice Agreement. The Israel Government gave assurances of its complete acceptance in principle of the plan. The agreed withdrawal, however, never took place. Full compliance with the Armistice Agreements was incompatible with the invocation of a state of war. The full-scale 1956 invasion of Egypt by British, French and Israeli forces, The invasion followed Egypt's decision of 26 July 1956 to nationalize the Suez Canal after the withdrawal of an offer by Britain and the United States to fund the building of the Aswan Dam. The invasion demonstrated UNTSO's irrelevance in the final settlement to the full and lasting peace.\n\nAfter the 1956 War (often referred to as the Suez Crisis), UNTSO greatly assisted the establishment of the United Nations Emergency Force (UNEF); in large measure the result of diplomatic efforts of the UN Secretary-General Dag Hammarskjöld and a proposal from Canadian minister of external affairs Lester Pearson, by providing a group of trained military personnel for peacekeeping and emergency operations to UNEF It was the first time UNTSO's expertise was tapped in order to establish a United Nations Mission. UNTSO's contribution to UNEF set the precedent for many UN missions to come.\n\nIsrael, after the 1956 War subsequently ceased all cooperation/participation in its Israeli-Egyptian MAC. On 8 November, the representative of Israel informed the Secretary-General that his Government would withdraw its forces from Egypt immediately after the conclusion of satisfactory arrangements with the United Nations in connection with the Emergency International Force. As a result, arrangements were made through which, without any change of the legal structure or status of the United Nations Truce Supervision Organization the functions of UNTSO in the Gaza area were placed under the operational control of the Force. A close co-operation between UNTSO and UNEF was to be maintained.\n\nThe General Assembly, on 19 January 1957, noted \"with regret and concern the failure of Israel to withdraw from Egyptian territory\". Later, on 2 February 1957, the Council deplored the\" non-compliance of Israel with regard to completion of its withdrawal and called upon Israel to complete its withdrawal without delay\". On 6 March 1957 General Burns was able to report to the Secretary-General of the UN that the \"United Nations Emergency Force troops are now in position in all camps and centres of population in Gaza Strip\". The staged withdrawal of Israeli forces from the Gaza Strip, with the exception of an Israel troop unit at Rafah camp, at 0400 GMT on 7 March 1957 was carried out according to plan and without incidents. By agreement, that last Israel element was withdrawn by 1600 GMT on 8 March and a full Israeli withdrawal from the Sharm al Shaikh area was effected at the same time. In the following years, the Israel-Egypt MAC remained inactive, though UNTSO was occasionally called to investigate incidents involving often bedouins in the Negev.\n\nIn the period under review, the Lebanese sector was relatively calm, surprisingly so if one thinks of subsequent events in that area. The Israel-Lebanon MAC met regularly and had developed a routine for handling incidents that occurred. In contrast, the Jordanian and Syrian sectors were the scene of frequent and often serious incidents, and both the Israel-Jordan and the Israel-Syria MAC's were quite active in pursuance of their mandate.\n\nIn the Jordanian sector, most problems arose in relation to the illegal crossing of the border and in respect of the situation in Jerusalem, there in particular the control of the periodic convoys providing supplies to the Israeli enclave at Mont Scopus.\n\nIn response to activities conducted by Israel in the DMZ between the armistice demarcation lines in the area of Government House in Jerusalem Jordan complaints to UN this resulted in the Security Council adopting Resolution 127 (1958) on 22 January 1958, noting that the status of the zone is affected by the provisions of the Israel-Jordan GAAs and that neither Israel nor Jordan enjoys sovereignty over any part of the zone and directing the Chief of Staff of UNTSO in Palestine to regulate activities in the zone. The sovereignty issues in the DMZs was never the sphere that the UNTSO could arbitrate on, though as will be mentioned below it got deeply involved in the matter in the Syrian sector also.\n\nFollowing a dress rehearsal on 17 March 1961 for a Military parade in the Israeli-occupied part of the Jerusalem, in which heavy military armament took part Jordan complained to the MAC. On 20 March 1961 the Mixed Armistice Commission decided that \"this act by Israel is a breach of the General Armistice Agreement\". The MAC also condemned this act by Israel and called upon the Israeli authorities to take the strongest measures to prevent a recurrence of such a breach of the GAA and to refrain in the future from bringing to Jerusalem any equipment that was in excess of that allowed for under the terms of the GAA. The Israeli authorities still contemplated holding the Full Dress Military parade on 20 April 1961 in the Israeli-occupied part of Jerusalem. The Security Council, on 11 April 1961, adopted Resolution 162 (1961), this endorsed the 20 March 1961 decision of the MAC; relating to the military parade contemplated for 20 April 1961 in the Israel-occupied part of Jerusalem, and urged Israel to comply with the decision Of the MAC made on 20 March 1961. This showed that the MAC concept still had complete support of the United Nations.\n\nThe Israel-Syria Armistice Agreement provided for a demilitarized zone (DMZ) in the Hula Lake area at the foot of the Golan Heights, zone which encompassed the area of Palestine as defined in the League of Nations Mandate occupied by Syrian forces at the time of the armistice. This DMZ has constantly been a source of incidents involving the Israel-Syria MAC. Attempts by UNTSO to limit Israeli agricultural activities on account of Arab ownership of land according to the cadastral map of the area failed as Israel refused to accept any limitation to its civilian activities anywhere in the DMZ. Heavy fighting having broken out between Israel and Syria following Israeli work undertaken on Arab-owned land in the DMZ, the Security Council in Resolutions 92 (1951) and 93 (1951) of 8 and 18 May 1951 called upon the parties to cease fighting and endorsed the request of the Chief of Staff of UNTSO that the Israeli company involved be instructed to cease all operations in the DMZ until such time as an agreement is arranged through the Chairman of the MAC for continuing its project. In Resolution 111 (1956) of 19 January 1956, the Security Council dealt with the confrontation which had escalated following interference by the Syrian authorities with legitimate Israeli activities on Lake Tiberias. It condemned as \"in no way justified\" the Israeli action taken in response to that interference in the form of an attack by Israeli regular army forces against Syrian regular army forces on Syrian territory. It also noted that in violation of the provisions of the General Armistice Agreement concerning the DMZ, the Zone had been crossed by the Israeli forces that entered Syria.\n\nFollowing a prolonged military confrontation between the parties, the Security Council was again involved in the Israel – Syria situation in 1962 in the light of a report by the Chief of Staff of UNTSO on the military activities in the Lake Tiberias area and in the DMZ. The Council in Resolution 171 (1962) of 9 April 1962 noted with satisfaction that a cease fire had been achieved. It deplored the hostile exchanges which had taken place and called upon the Governments concerned to comply with the General Armistice Agreement. It determined that an Israeli attack on 16–17 March had been a flagrant violation of its engagements, and called on Israel scrupulously to refrain from such action in the future. It also called upon both parties to abide scrupulously by the cease fire arranged by the Chief of Staff of UNTSO, and called specifically for strict observance of the article of the GAA which provides for the exclusion of armed forces from the demilitarized zone, and of the annex to the GAA which sets limits on forces in the defensive area.\n\nIt should also be noted that not for the first time unarmed service with UNTSO carried its risks. In June 1967 Comdt Thomas Wickham of the Irish Defense Forces was shot dead in Syria.\n\nThe period between the Six-Day War of June 1967 and the Yom Kippur War of October 1973, UNTSO performed a vital function of helping to establish and supervise ceasefire agreements which included new boundaries between the countries. Even though there was no change to UNTSO's mission, the execution of its original mission became nearly impossible with the advent of the newly drawn ceasefire lines between Israel and Egypt-Jordan-Syria respectively.\n\nAdditionally, UNTSO did not have the MACs to supervise since Israel abrogated its initial agreement to the Armistice as conceived. Realizing the changing political situation, the UN Security Council added some new tasks to the UNTSO Charter on the first few months following the 1967 ceasefire. Specifically, in the Egypt-Israel and Israel-Syria fronts, UNTSO established observation posts. These posts remained in effect until the Yom Kippur War of October 1973. The UN offices established in Amman and Gaza (before the 1967 War) were allowed to continue to function as Liaison Offices, even though the MAC concept had become defunct.\n\nAt the urging of the Lebanese government, UNTSO created an observation operation along the Lebanese border (1949 Armistice Demarcation line) in the spring of 1972. Due to the Palestinian activity in South Lebanon and the potential Israeli reprisal against their encampments, UNTSO felt the potential for further conflict warranted the additional observation posts.\n\nAs a result of the Yom Kippur War, the location of UN Observers Post in the Middle East was drastically affected. However, most Ops are still located in the same place today. In the Egyptian-Israeli sector, UNTSO personnel were structured around the Observer \"Group\" concept and placed under the UN Peace-Keeping Forces that occupied the region. Observer Group Sinai was formed and attached to the Second United Nations Emergency Force (UNEF II). The Charter for UNEF II expired on 24 July 1979 which only left UNTSO's presence. The observers (UNMOs) were then restructured on new OPs which were located on vantage points throughout the Sinai peninsula. For the Sinai Group, their main office was located in Cairo (in 1993 it was moved to Ismailia, closer to the OPs). On the Israeli-Syria border, UNTSO's ceasefire observation and supervision mission continued but with a readjusted ceasefire line. Observer Groups Damascus and Golan (Syrian sector) were established as a result of the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF). These Posts are still active today and are in the same location.\n\nShortly after the 1973 War, U.S. participation in UNTSO expanded to twenty-five officers. The U.S. Marine Corps portion was six. Approximately the same period, the Soviets made a surprise move and announced their support of UNTSO and likewise wanted to provide Observers. To keep a balanced presence between the East-West Superpowers—the Russian participation was set at the same level as the United States (which was twenty-five each at that time). Subsequent to the 1973 agreement, the number of observers for all countries participating increased. As a result, the number of personnel to be provided by Soviet Union and the United States was re-established at thirty-six each (which still remains today). Since U.S. personnel are not allowed in Lebanon, (a limitation set forth by U.S. Secretary of Defence Frank Carlucci, due to the threat to U.S. personnel), there is a current move to reduce U.S. participation to UNTSO. Likewise, the Soviets would have to drop its participation to the same number as the United States. Due to the lengthy diplomatic process, this proposal has not been acted upon by both nations yet. However, the proposal is anticipated to receive favourable consideration.\n\nThe Israeli-Lebanese conflict commenced in the late 1970s. It provided the latest major change to UNTSO as we know the organization currently. After the outbreak of the Civil War in Lebanon and the Israeli invasion into Southern Lebanon (March 1978), the United Nations established the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL). UNTSO's observers were thus reorganized into Observer Group Lebanon (OGL) to assist UNIFIL. September 1982 saw a low point for UNTSO with the deaths of four of its unarmed officer observers in a landmine explosion just outside Beirut. The nationalities of those killed were one Finnish, one Irish and two Americans. As the Israeli penetration advanced north, the position of Observer Group Lebanon was adjusted. (15:372) An additional task of being the United Nations Liaison Office Beirut (UNLOB) was given to the headquarters of the Israel-Lebanon Mixed Armistice Commission (ILMAC) which was already located in Beirut. Under the close supervision of UNTSO's Chief-of-Staff, UNLOB/ILMAC functioned as a dual purpose headquarters/ liaison office for both UNTSO and UNIFIL. Four unarmed UN peacekeepers were killed by Israel air strike on 25 July 2006. The nationalities of those killed were one Austria, China, Finland and Canada.\n\nUNTSO personnel have also been available at short notice to form the nucleus of other peacekeeping operations. The availability of UNTSO's military observers for almost immediate deployment after the Security Council had acted to create a new operation has been an enormous contributory factor to the success of those operations.\n\nThe military observers are un-armed and they carry out their jobs by observing and reporting violations of the agreements of ceasefire, disengagement etc. that are relevant to their area of operations. All military observers are seasoned officers of the rank of captain or major coming from all branches of service in their respective countries armed forces.\n\nThe military observers work in multi-national teams, so that any observations will always be confirmed by at least two observers from different nations, as a measure to ensure impartiality.\n\nUNTSO currently provides military observers to three different UN missions in the area; Observer Group Lebanon (OGL), supporting UNIFIL in Southern Lebanon, Observer Group Golan (OGG) supporting UNDOF in the Golan Heights and Observer Group Egypt (OGE) in the Sinai Peninsula.\n\nOGG, who has its headquarters co-located with UNDOF HQ in Camp Faouar in Syria, is split into two outstations; OGG-D (Observer Group Golan - Damascus) based in Damascus, Syria and OGG-T (Observer Group Golan - Tiberias) based in Tiberias, Israel. Each outstation mans a number of observation posts on each side of the Area of Separation (AOS) that was put in place as part of the 1974 Disengagement Agreement between Syria and Israel following the 1973 Yom Kippur War. The military observers carry-out fortnightly inspections inside the Area of Limitations (AOL) to verify, that both sides adhere to the limitations on troop levels and military equipment within 10, 20 and 25 km zones from the AOS as prescribed by the 1974 Disengagement Agreement.\n\nOGL HQ are co-located with UNIFIL HQ in Naquora, Southern Lebanon. OGL mans four patrol bases along the \"Blue Line\" - a demarcation line between Israel and Lebanon.\n\nOGE is based in Ismalia by the Suez Canal in Egypt. OGE conducts short and long-range patrols in the Sinai Peninsula.\n\n\n\nUNTSO: Transfer of computers via Israel normal\n"}
{"id": "449671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=449671", "title": "Usama ibn Munqidh", "text": "Usama ibn Munqidh\n\nMajd ad-Dīn Usāma ibn Murshid ibn ʿAlī ibn Munqidh al-Kināni al-Kalbi (also Usamah, Ousama, etc.; ) (July 4, 1095 – November 17, 1188) was a medieval Muslim poet, author, \"faris\" (knight), and diplomat from the Banu Munqidh dynasty of Shaizar in northern Syria. His life coincided with the rise of several medieval Muslim dynasties, the arrival of the First Crusade, and the establishment of the crusader states.\n\nHe was the nephew and potential successor of the emir of Shaizar, but was exiled in 1131 and spent the rest of his life serving other leaders. He was a courtier to the Burids, Zengids, and Ayyubids in Damascus, serving the Zengi, Nur ad-Din, and Saladin over a period of almost fifty years. He also served the Fatimid court in Cairo, as well as the Artuqids in Hisn Kayfa. He travelled extensively in Arab lands, visiting Egypt, Syria, Palestine and along the Tigris River, and went on pilgrimage to Mecca. He often meddled in the politics of the courts in which he served, and he was exiled from both Damascus and Cairo.\n\nDuring and immediately after his life, he was most famous as a poet and \"adib\" (a \"man of letters\"). He wrote many poetry anthologies, such as the \"Kitab al-'Asa\" (\"Book of the Staff\"), \"Lubab al-Adab\" (\"Kernels of Refinement\"), and \"al-Manazil wa'l-Diyar\" (\"Dwellings and Abodes\"), and collections of his own original poetry. In modern times, he is remembered more for his \"Kitab al-I'tibar\" (\"Book of Learning by Example\" or \"Book of Contemplation\"), which contains lengthy descriptions of the crusaders, whom he interacted with on many occasions, and some of whom he considered friends.\n\nMost of his family was killed in an earthquake at Shaizar in 1157. He died in Damascus in 1188, at the age of 93.\n\nUsama was the son of Murshid, and the nephew of Nasr, emir of Shaizar.\n\nShaizar was seen as a strategically important site and the gateway to enter and control inner Syria. The Arabs initially conquered Shaizar during the Muslim conquest of the Levant in 637. Due to its importance it exchanged hands numerous times between the Arabs and Byzantines, who regained it in 999. In 1025 the Banu Munqid tribe were given an allocation of land beside Shaizar by the ruler of Hama, Saleh al-Murdase. Over time they expanded their lands building fortifications and castles until Usamas grandfather Iz Al-Dawlah Al-Murhif Nasr retook it in 1080.\n\nWhen Nasr died in 1098, Usama's father, Majd ad-Din Abi Salamah Murshid (1068-1137) became the emir of Shaizar and the surrounding cities. However, he soon gave up his position to Usama's uncle, Izz ad-Din Abi al-Asaker Sultan Mrdad, since Murshid was more interested in studying religion and hunting than in matters of politics.\n\nWhile Usama's uncle's rule, Shaizar was attacked numerous times by the Bani Klab of Aleppo, the sect of the Hashshashin, the Byzantines, and the crusaders. It was struck with siege engines for 10 days in 1137 by the Byzantines and the crusaders attempted on many occasions to storm it. However, due to its natural fortifications, it never fell.\n\nAs a child, Usama was the second of four boys and raised by his nurse, Lu'lu'a, who had also raised his father and would later raise Usama's own children. He was encouraged by his father to memorise the Quran, and was also tutored by scholars such as Ibn Munira of Kafartab and Abu Abdullah al-Tulaytuli of Toledo. He spent much of his youth hunting with his family, partly as recreation and certainly as warrior (\"faris\"), training for battle as part of \"furusiyya\". He also gathered much direct fighting experience, against the neighbouring crusader County of Tripoli and Principality of Antioch, hostile Muslim neighbours in Hama, Homs, and elsewhere, and against the Hashshashin who had established a base near Shaizar.\n\nSultan did not initially have any male heirs and it is possible that Usama expected to succeed him. He certainly singled him out among his brothers by teaching him, tutoring him in the ways of war and hunting. He even favoured him for personal missions and as a representative. However, after Sultan had his own son, he no longer appreciated the presence of Usama and Murshid's other sons. According to Usama, Sultan became jealous after a particularly successful lion-hunt in 1131, when Usama entered the town with a large lion head in his arms as a hunting trophy. When his grandmother saw this she warned him about the effect this could have on his uncle. Despite this, he still spoke well of his uncle on a few occasions in his autobiography and highlighted his noble actions. Usama ultimately left Shaizar temporarily in 1129, and after his father death in 1137 his exile became permanent.\n\nUsama's uncle died in 1154 and his son, Taj al-Dawlah Naser ad-Din Mohammad, inherited the castle. However, Usama was the last heir of the line left alive when in 1157 an earthquake struck the area, killing most of his family.\n\nUsama went to Homs, where he was taken captive in a battle against Zengi, the atabeg of Mosul and Aleppo, who had just captured nearby Hama. After his capture he entered Zengi's service, and travelled throughout northern Syria, Iraq, and Armenia fighting against Zengi's enemies, including the Abbasid caliph outside Baghdad in 1132. In 1135 he returned to the south, to Hama, where one of Zengi's generals, al-Yaghisiyani, was appointed governor. He returned to Shaizar when his father died in May 1137, and again in April 1138 when Byzantine emperor John II Comnenus besieged the city.\n\nThe emperor's siege of Shaizar was unsuccessful, but Shaizar was heavily damaged. After the siege, Usama left Zengi's service and went to Damascus, which was ruled by Mu'in ad-Din Unur, the atabeg of the Burid dynasty. Zengi was determined to conquer Damascus, so Usama and Unur turned to the crusader Kingdom of Jerusalem for help. Usama was sent on a preliminary visit to Jerusalem in 1138, and in 1139 Zengi captured Baalbek in Damascene territory. In 1140 Unur sent Usama back to Jerusalem to conclude a treaty with the crusaders, and both he and Unur visited their new allies numerous times between 1140 and 1143. Afterwards, Usama was suspected of being involved in a plot against Unur, and he fled Damascus for Fatimid Cairo in November, 1144.\n\nIn Cairo he became a wealthy courtier, but he was involved in plots and conspiracies there as well. The young az-Zafir became caliph in 1149, and Ibn as-Sallar became vizier, with Usama as one of his advisors. As-Sallar sent Usama to negotiate an alliance against the crusaders with Zengi's son Nur ad-Din, but the negotiations failed. Usama took part in battles with the crusaders outside of Ascalon on his way back to Egypt, and after he left, his brother 'Ali was killed at Gaza.\n\nBack in Egypt, as-Sallar was assassinated in 1153 by his son Abbas, Abbas's son Nasr, and caliph az-Zafir, who, according to Usama, was Nasr's lover. Thirteenth-century historian Ibn al-Athir says that Usama was the instigator of this plot. Usama may also have been behind the assassination of az-Zafir by Abbas, in 1154. Az-Zafir's relatives called upon a supporter, Tala'i ibn Ruzzik, who chased Abbas out of Cairo, and Usama followed him. He lost his possessions in Cairo, and on the way to Damascus his retinue was attacked by the crusaders and Bedouin nomads, but in June 1154 he safely reached Damascus, which had recently been captured by Nur ad-Din. Ibn Ruzzik tried to persuade him to come back, as the rest of his family was still in Cairo, but Usama was able to bring them to Damascus, through crusader territory, in 1156. The crusaders promised to transport them safely, but they were attacked and pillaged, and Usama lost his entire library.\n\nIn 1157, Shaizar was destroyed by an earthquake, killing almost all of Usama's relatives. They were there for the circumcision of the son of his cousin Muhammad, who had recently succeeded Sultan as emir. The only survivor was Muhammad's wife. Usama had remained in Damascus, and after the destruction of his homeland he remained there in semi-retirement. He went on pilgrimage to Mecca in 1160, then went on campaign against the crusaders with Nur ad-Din in 1162, and was at the Battle of Harim in 1164. That year, Usama left Nur ad-Din's service and went north to the court of Kara Arslan, the Artuqid emir of Hisn Kayfa.\n\nUsama's life in Hisn Kayfa is very obscure, but he travelled throughout the region, and probably wrote many of his works there. In 1174 Usama was invited to Damascus to serve Saladin, who had succeeded Nur ad-Din earlier that year and was a friend of Usama's son Murhaf. Usama lived in semi-retirement, as he did in Hisn Kayfa, and often met with Saladin to discuss literature and warfare. He may have also taught poetry and hadith in Damascus, and held poetry salons for Saladin and his chief men, including al-Qadi al-Fadl and Imad ad-Din al-Isfahani. He died on November 17, 1188. He was buried in Damascus on Mount Qasiyun, although the tomb is now lost.\n\nUsama had three brothers, Muhammad, 'Ali, and Munqidh; his cousin, also named Muhammad, succeeded Usama's uncle Sultan as emir of Shaizar. He had a son, Murhaf, in 1126, and another son, Abu Bakr, who died as a child. He had a daughter, Umm Farwa, in Hisn Kayfa in 1166. He mentions other children, but their names, and the name of his wife or wives, are unknown.\n\nThe picture he painted of his father was of a pious religious man who was not interested in the affairs of this world. He would spend most of his time reading the Quran, fasting and hunting during the day and at night would copy the Quran. He also recounted a few battles his father joined against the crusaders in his autobiography Kitab al Itibar.\n\nIt is sometimes assumed that Usama was Shi'ite, because he often writes about 'Ali, his family cooperated with the Fatimids and other Shi'ite dynasties, and he himself served the Fatimids in Egypt. Philip K. Hitti thought he had a \"secret sympathy\" with the Shi'ites. Paul M. Cobb does not think there is enough evidence one way or the other, but believes he was probably Sunni with \"acceptable Shi'ite tendencies.\" Robert Irwin thinks the Banu Munqidh were Twelver Shi'ites (unlike the Fatimids who were Seveners), and that another clue to Usama's Shi'ism is his dislike of jihad, which was not a Shi'ite doctrine. Usama also admired Christian monks and holy men, and was disturbed that Muslims were not as pious as Christians. He was very fond of Sufis when he first learned about them late in his life in Damascus.\n\nAround 1171 in Hisn Kayfa, Usama wrote the \"Kitab al-'Asa\" (\"Book of the Staff\"), a poetry anthology about famous walking sticks and other staffs, and \"al-Manazil wa'l-Diyar\" (\"Dwellings and Abodes\"). In Damascus in the early 1180s he wrote another anthology, the \"Lubab al-Adab\" (\"Kernels of Refinement\"), instructions on living a properly cultured life. He is most famous for the \"Kitab al-I'tibar\" (translated various ways, most recently as \"the Book of Contemplation\"), which was written as a gift to Saladin around 1183. It is not exactly a \"memoir\", as Philip Hitti translated the title, although it does include many autobiographical details that are incidental to the main point. It was meant to be \"a book of examples (\"'ibar\") from which to draw lessons.\"\n\nIn 1880, Hartwig Derenbourg was the first to discover the \"Kitab al-I'tibar\", which survived in only one manuscript, in the possession of the Escorial Monastery near Madrid. Derenbourg was also the first to produce an Arabic edition (1886), a biography of Usama (1889), and a French translation (1895). In 1930, Hitti produced an improved Arabic edition, and an English translation. Qasim as-Samarrai produced another Arabic edition in 1987.\n\nUsama wrote in \"Middle Arabic\", a less formal style of classical Arabic.\n\nUsama was known for meddling in the business of others, rather than commanding any power of his own. As the Encyclopaedia of Islam says, \"his career was a troubled one, and for this his own actions were surely responsible in large part.\"\n\nTo contemporary and later medieval Muslims, however, he was best remembered for his poetry and his poetry anthologies. Ibn Khallikan, author of a fourteenth-century biographical dictionary, calls him \"one of the most powerful, learned, and intrepid members of the [Munqidh] family\" and speaks at great length about his poetry.\n\nHe was also known for his military and hunting exploits. Ibn al-Athir described him as \"the ultimate of bravery\", regarding his presence at the Battle of Harim.\n\nFor modern readers he is most famous for the \"Kitab al-I'tibar\" and his descriptions of life in Syria during the early crusades. The disjointed nature of the work has given him a reputation as a senile rambler, although it is actually written with an anthological structure, with humorous or moralistic tales that are not meant to proceed chronologically, as a true autobiography would. Since this style of literature, \"adab\" in Arabic, does not necessarily have to be factual, historians are quick to point out that Usama's historical material cannot always be trusted. Usama's anecdotes about the crusades are sometimes obvious jokes, exaggerating their \"otherness\" to entertain his Muslim audience. As Carole Hillenbrand wrote, it would be \"dangerously misleading to take the evidence of his book at its face value.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57899729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57899729", "title": "Völkerabfälle", "text": "Völkerabfälle\n\nVölkerabfälle is a term used by Frederick Engels to describe small nations which he considered residual fragments of former peoples who had succumbed to more powerful neighbours in the historic process of social development and which Engels considered prone to become \"fanatical standard-bearers of counter-revolution\".\n\nHe offers as examples:\n\nEngels was referring also specifically to the Serb uprising of 1848–49, in which Serbs from Vojvodina fought against the previously victorious Hungarian revolution. Engels finished the article with the folwing prediction:\nBut at the first victorious uprising of the French proletariat, which Louis Napoleon is striving with all his might to conjure up, the Austrian Germans and Magyars will be set free and wreak a bloody revenge on the Slav barbarians. The general war which will then break out will smash this Slav Sonderbund and wipe out all these petty hidebound nations, down to their very names.The next world war will result in the disappearance from the face of the earth not only of reactionary classes and dynasties, but also of entire reactionary peoples. And that, too, is a step forward.\n\nEngels views were criticised by leading socialist Karl Kautsky who in 1915 argued that subsequent to 1848/9 the Czech and Austrian South Slavs had transformed themselves in a manner which in practice refuted the views of Marx and Engels. Referring to Heinrich Cunow he wrote:\nToday when those people have achieved such great power and significance to refer to them in the old Marxian terms of 1848/9 does appear most unfortunate. Should someone today still hold onto that standpoint he has a lot to unlearn\n\nRoman Rozdolsky analyses Engels' position in his book \"Engels and the 'Nonhistoric' Peoples: the National Question in the Revolution of 1848\".\nThere are two ways to look at Marx and Engels: as the creators of a brilliant, but in its deepest essence, thoroughly critical, scientific method; or as church fathers of some sort, the bronzed figures of a monument. Those who have the latter vision will not have found this study to their taste. We, however, prefer to see them as they were in reality.\n\nRosdolsky examines Engels' viewpoint at length. Both Marx and Engels had supported the 1848 revolution which had spread throughout Europe. They saw this as a necessary first step towards the Socialist revolution, which was hoped to be imminent. However, the forces of reaction rallied in Klemens von Metternich's Austria in October 1848 with the brutal suppression of the Vienna Uprising. Engels was prompted to write his article thanks to the Austrian Slavs' rejection of the opportunity to liberate themselves from the oppressive rule of the Habsburgs, as well their enthusiastic embrace of Metternich’s counter-revolution.\n\nThis last passage, the final paragraph of Engels' article in 1849, has fuelled accusations that this constitutes a call for genocide. The British Liberal historian, George Watson, for example, cited this text by Engels as evidence for his view that Hitler was a Marxist. He also participated in the conservative documentary \"The Soviet Story\", where he uses the translation of Völkerabfälle as \"racial trash\". The film attracted criticism from a range of people including Latvian MEP Tatjana Ždanoka, Finnish political activist Johan Bäckman and Latvian MP Boriss Cilevičs. Alexander Dyukov has provided evidence that the film relies on falsified images to give an historically inaccurate account of the Soviet Union.\n"}
{"id": "10006121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10006121", "title": "War in the North", "text": "War in the North\n\nThe War in the North, in the Spanish Civil War was the campaign in which the Nationalist forces defeated and occupied the parts of northern Spain that remained loyal to the Republican government. The campaign included several separate battles. The Biscay Campaign resulted in the loss of the part of the Basque Country still held by the Republic and Bilbao, the greatest Spanish industrial center. This part of the campaign saw the Bombing of Guernica and Durango. The Battle of Santander caused the loss of the province of Santander in Cantabrian Castile for the Republic. The Battle of El Mazuco lead to the capture of the Republican-controlled part of Asturias and the fall of Gijón, the Republic's last stronghold in the North, to the Nationalists. The campaign ended on October 21, 1937 with a decisive and total Nationalist victory.\n\nOn the Nationalist takeover of Navarre (July 1936), General Mola had announced a war of extermination and no mercy against any dissent. Harsh repression started to be implemented on blacklisted, inconvenient Navarrese individuals and their families, and by late August, the Requeté (Carlist militia) from Navarre advanced towards Irun with a mission to cut off Gipuzkoan Republican forces from the French border.\nWith the fall of Irun and then San Sebastián, on September 23, 1936, the Nationalists under Franco pushed their way through Gipuzkoa, cutting off the Republican controlled areas in northern Spain from the border with France. This area had been already isolated from the rest of Spain by Nationalist control at the beginning of the war. This area was very attractive to the Nationalists because of the industrial production of Biscay and the mineral resources of Asturias. To conquer and control this area would be profitable through its valuable resources, would expel Republican forces and concentrate large numbers of Nationalist troops to dictate a two-front war. Franco realized that Madrid, the capital, was not going to be conquered quickly. Basque resources of iron, coal, steel and chemicals were a tempting target. The Republican north was also politically divided and weakened by struggles between Basque nationalists and leftists. Furthermore, its major supplies came by sea. Franco ordered his commanders on the Madrid front to go on the defensive and send all available resources to the north.\n\nRepublican forces attempted to establish a front at Buruntza. Eventually the front stabilized temporarily on the western fringes of Gipuzkoa (Intxorta) during October 1936, when the Basque Statute of Autonomy was passed in Madrid, and the Basque Government was rapidly organized. As military rebels advanced, panicking civilians from the occupied areas fled towards Bilbao by the tens of thousands.\n\nEmilio Mola was in command of the start of this campaign, beginning on March 31, 1937; however, Mola, died in an airplane crash on June 3, 1937. The Nationalists began the attack with 50,000 men of the 61st Solchaga. The Republican Army of the North was commanded by General Francisco Llano de la Encomienda. This was the beginning of the Biscay Campaign.\nThe Nationalist offensive started on March 31, and the same day the \"Legion Condor\" bombed the town of Durango, there were 250 civilian deaths. The Navarrese troops attacked the town of Ochandiano and on April 4 occupied it, after heavy combat. Mola then decided to stop the advance due to bad weather.\nOn April 6, the Nationalist government in Burgos announced the blockade of the Basque ports, but some British ships entered Bilbao. On April 20, the Nationalists continued their offensive and occupied Elgeta after a heavy artillery bombardment. The same day the \"Legion Condor\" bombed Guernica. The Basques retreated to the Iron Belt line and on April 30, the Italians occupied Bermeo, but the Nationalist battleship Jaime I was sunk by a mine.\n\nThe Republican government decided to send 50 aircraft to Bilbao and launched two offensives against Huesca and Segovia in order to stop the Nationalist advance, but both failed. On June 3, Mola died and was replaced by Davila. On June 12, the Nationalists started their assault of the Iron Belt and after heavy aerial and artillery bombings entered Bilbao on June 19.\n\nAfter the fall of Bilbao, the Republican government decided to launch an offensive against Brunete in order to stop the Nationalist offensive in the north on July 6, but by July 25 the offensive had ended. The morale of the Republican troops in Cantabria was low and the Basque soldiers did not want to carry on the fight. On August 14, the Nationalists launched their offensive against Cantabria, with the 90,000 men (25,000 Italians) and 200 aircraft of the Army of the North. On August 17, the Italians occupied the \"El Escudo\" Pass and encircled 22 Republican battalions at Campoo (Cantabria). On August 24, the Basque troops surrendered to the Italians at Santoña and the Republican troops fled from Santander. On August 26, the Italians occupied Santander and by September 1, the Nationalists had occupied almost all Cantabria. The Nationalists captured 60,000 prisoners, the greatest victory of the war.\n\nAfter the failed republican offensive against Zaragoza, the Nationalists decided to continue their offensive against Asturias. The Nationalists had overwhelming numerical (90,000 men against 45,000) and material (more than 200 aircraft against 35) superiority, but the Republican Army in Asturias was better organized than in Santander and the difficult terrain provided excellent defensive positions. The Navarrese troops (30,000), led by Solchaga, and supported by the \"Legion Condor\", managed to occupy the El Mazuco Pass, held by 5,000 Republican soldiers, only after 33 days of bloody combat.\n\nOn October 14, the Nationalists broke the Republican front, and, on October 17, the Republican government ordered the evacuation of Asturias to start, but Nationalist ships were blockading the Asturian ports and only a few military commanders (Adolfo Prada, Galan, Belarmino Tomas) managed to escape. By October 21, the Nationalists had occupied Gijón and completed the conquest of the northern zone.\n\nWith the conquest of the North, the Nationalists controlled 36 per cent of Spanish industrial production, 60 per cent of the coal and all the steel production. Furthermore, more than 100,000 Republican prisoners were forced to join the Nationalist army or sent to labour battalions. The Republic had lost the Army of the North (more than 200,000 soldiers) and by then a complete military victory of the Republic in the war became impossible. Franco then decided to start a new offensive against Madrid, but Vicente Rojo Lluch, the leader of the Republican Army, launched a diversionary offensive in Aragon, the Battle of Teruel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8415448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8415448", "title": "William Sumner Appleton", "text": "William Sumner Appleton\n\nWilliam Sumner Appleton Jr. (May 29, 1874–November 24, 1947) was founder of the Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities (SPNEA) in 1910. He was the chief force behind much of the preservation of historic homes in the New England area.\n\nAppleton was born on May 29, 1874, in Boston to William Sumner Appleton (1840–1903) and Edith Stuart (d. 1892). As a boy he lived at 39 Beacon Street (also known as the Nathan Appleton Residence). He was from an old and wealthy family. \n\nHe was educated at Hopkinson's School for Boys, Boston, and graduated from Harvard College in 1896.\n\nAppleton worked tirelessly to promote preservation of buildings from the 17th, 18th, and early 19th centuries. He focused on buildings that were aesthetically pleasing, had historic significance, and could be independently supported. His method of preservation focused on cautious, deliberate restoration only when experts were involved and restorations were reversible. When he died in 1947, the SPNEA had grown tremendously and remains a strong and active organization today. Renamed Historic New England, the organization owns thirty-six historic properties.\n\nAround 1916, Appleton lived on Spruce Street in Boston.\n\nAppleton died on November 24, 1947, in Lawrence, Massachusetts. He is buried in a plot with his sister, Marjorie, who preceded him in death by 34 years, aged about 38.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1669179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1669179", "title": "Yevgeny Vakhtangov", "text": "Yevgeny Vakhtangov\n\nYevgeny Bagrationovich Vakhtangov (also spelled Evgeny or Eugene; ; 13 February 1883 – 29 May 1922) was a Russian actor and theatre director who founded the Vakhtangov Theatre. He was a friend and mentor of Michael Chekhov.\n\nVakhtangov was born to an Armenian father and a Russian mother in Vladikavkaz, Northern Ossetia. He was educated at Moscow State University for a short time and then joined the Moscow Art Theatre in 1911 and rose in the ranks, so that by 1920 he was in charge of his own theatre studio. Four years after his death, the studio was named Vakhtangov Theatre in his honor. \nVakhtangov was greatly influenced both by the theatrical experiments of Vsevolod Meyerhold and the more psychological techniques of his teachers, Konstantin Stanislavski and Leopold Sulerzhitsky, and the co-founder of the MAT Vladimir Nemirovich-Danchenko. His productions incorporated masks, music, dance, abstract costume, avant-garde sets as well as a detailed analysis of the texts of plays and the psychological motivations of its characters. His most notable production was \"Turandot\" by Carlo Gozzi, which has played at the Vakhtangov Theatre ever since 1922 (the year of his death). Another famous production directed by Vakhtangov in the same year was S. Ansky's \"The Dybbuk\" with the Habimah theater troupe.\n\nOn the Actors Studio webpage, Lee Strasberg is quoted as saying: \"If you examine the work of the Stanislavski System as made use of by Stanislavski, you see one result. If you examine it in the work of one of his great pupils, Vakhtangov — who influenced our thinking and activity — you will see a completely different result. Vakhtangov's work was skillfully done, his use of the Method even more brilliant and more imaginative than Stanislavski’s, and yet Vakhtangov achieved totally different results.\"\n\nThe German theatre practitioner Bertolt Brecht argued that Vakhtangov's approach was \"the Stanislavski-Meyerhold complex \"before\" the split rather than its reconciliation\". Brecht outlined the main aspects of Vakhtangov's work as:\nHe identifies a commonality with his own 'demonstrating' element in acting, but argues that Vakhtangov's method lacks the social insight and pedagogical function of Brecht's own \"Gestic\" form: \"when Vakhtangov's actor says 'I'm not laughing, I'm demonstrating laughter', one still doesn't learn anything from his demonstration\".\n\nVakhtangov died of cancer. The later part of his career took place at a high point of Russian theatre, amidst the Bolshevik Revolution and Civil War.\n\n\n"}
