{"id": "38489410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38489410", "title": "1949 in philosophy", "text": "1949 in philosophy\n\n1949 in philosophy\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24149167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24149167", "title": "2004 World Monuments Watch", "text": "2004 World Monuments Watch\n\nThe World Monuments Watch is a flagship advocacy program of the New York-based private non-profit organization World Monuments Fund (WMF) that is dedicated to preserving the historic, artistic, and architectural heritage around the world.\n\nEvery two years, it publishes a select list known as the Watch List of 100 Most Endangered Sites that is in urgent need of preservation funding and protection. It is a call to action on behalf of threatened cultural heritage monuments worldwide. The sites are nominated by governments, conservation professionals, site caretakers, non-government organizations (NGOs), concerned individuals, and others working in the field. An independent panel of international experts then select 100 candidates from these entries to be part of the Watch List, based on the significance of the sites, the urgency of the threat, and the viability of both advocacy and conservation solutions. A site’s inclusion on the Watch List attracts international attention, helping to raise funds needed for its rescue and spurring local governments and communities to take an active role in protecting the cultural landmark.\n\nThe 2004 World Monuments Watch List of 100 Most Endangered Sites was launched on 24 September 2003 by WMF President Bonnie Burnham and WMF partner American Express. For the first time, a site from Antarctica was included, ensuring that the Watch List geographically covers every continent.\n\nThe following countries/territories have multiple sites entered on the 2004 Watch List, listed by the number of sites:\n\nA. Numbers list only meant as a guide on this article. No official reference numbers have been designated for the sites on the Watch List.\nB. Names and spellings used for the sites were based on the official 2004 Watch List as published.\nC. The references to the sites' locations were based on the official 2004 Watch List as published.\nD. Tally includes the transfrontier site of \"Jesuit Guaraní Missions\".\n"}
{"id": "21528403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21528403", "title": "Abdallah Guennoun", "text": "Abdallah Guennoun\n\nAbdallah Guennoun (Born 16 September 1908 in Fes - died 9 July 1989 in Tangier) was a famous, and influential Moroccan essayist. In 1927 and 1928, he wrote a three-volume book titled \"An Nubûgh Al Maghribi\" (\"The genius of Maghreb\"), where he assesses the excellence of Moroccan literature and philosophy.\n\nGuennoun taught at the universities of Cairo, Damascus, Baghdad, and Amman.\n\nTánger: Madrasa al-Malik Fahd al-Uliyâ li-l-Tardjuma, 1991.\nAbstract: Abdallah Guennun. Estudio biográfico y literario.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33571280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33571280", "title": "Alfred Rupert Hall", "text": "Alfred Rupert Hall\n\nAlfred Rupert Hall (or Rupert Hall) (26 July 1920 – 5 February 2009) was a prominent British historian of science, known as editor of a collection of Isaac Newton's unpublished scientific papers (1962), and Newton's correspondence, in 1977.\n\nHe went to Christ's College, Cambridge in 1938 to study history, but his studies were interrupted by war service. He completed his degree in 1946 and began postgraduate research. As a boy he had delighted in the history of inventions and devices, and the army had given him hands-on experience; his doctoral thesis which was on 17th-century ballistics was published as a book in 1952. In 1949 he was elected a fellow of Christ's College.\n\nHall was unusual in coming to the discipline from history, not science, and his background would yield fresh and different perspectives in this new emerging field. Charles Singer, the first president of the British Society for the History of Science, was not alone in having suspicions about someone without a scientific education teaching the history of science. Hall won him round, and they were to co-operate in editing the five-volume \"History of Technology\" published by Oxford University Press in 1954-58.\n\nIn 1948 Hall was appointed as the first curator of the Whipple Museum of the History of Science, in Cambridge, and in 1950 began lecturing in the subject. Soon, the discipline was formally accepted into the tripos structure of degrees, and the department of history and philosophy of science was established, now the largest university department of its kind in the UK.\n\nMeanwhile, Marie Boas had come from the US to work on Robert Boyle's papers, and met Hall, who was working on Isaac Newton's. In 1959 Hall, whose first marriage had ended in divorce, joined her in the US and they were married. In 1963 they were invited back to Imperial College in London, where Hall became the first professor of the history of science.\n\nBetween 1962 and 1986 the Halls edited, translated and published in 13 volumes the correspondence of Henry Oldenburg, the secretary of the Royal Society in its early days, and founding editor of its journal, Philosophical Transactions, which grew out of his extensive international letter-writing. They also edited a valuable collection of Newton's unpublished scientific papers (1962). In 1980 he published \"Philosophers at War\", an account of Newton's disreputable quarrel with Leibniz.\n\nRupert directed the Wellcome Trust programme on the history of medicine for 4 years, a programme which funds courses in various universities and gives bursaries to individuals.\n\nAs David Knight ends the obituary to Rupert Hall published in \"The Guardian\" in 2009:\n\n\"Rupert and Marie were inseparable and devoted; she died 18 days after him. They not only filled gaps in our knowledge of 17th-century science, but were exemplary in being genial, encouraging and helpful to younger scholars.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "26980756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26980756", "title": "Andean civilizations", "text": "Andean civilizations\n\nThe Andean civilizations were a patchwork of different cultures and peoples that developed from the Andes of Colombia southward down the Andes to northern Argentina and Chile, plus the coastal deserts of Peru and northern Chile. Archaeologists believe that Andean civilizations first developed on the narrow coastal plain of the Pacific Ocean. The Norte Chico civilization of Peru is the oldest known dating back to 3200 BCE.\n\nDespite severe environmental challenges, the Andean civilizations domesticated a wide variety of crops, some of which became of worldwide importance. The Andean civilizations were also noteworthy for monumental architecture, textile weaving, and many unique characteristics of the societies they created.\n\nLess than a century prior to the arrival of the Spanish conquerors, the Incas united most of the Andean cultures into the Inca Empire which encompasses all of what is usually called Andean civilization. The Muisca of Colombia and the Timoto Cuica of Venezuela remained outside the Inca orbit. The Inca Empire was a patchwork of languages, cultures and peoples.\n\nSpanish rule ended or transformed many elements of the Andean civilizations, notably influencing religion and architecture.\n\nAndean civilization was one of five civilizations in the world deemed by scholars to be \"pristine\", that is indigenous and not derived from other civilizations. Due to its isolation from other civilizations, the Indigenous people of the Andes had to come up with their own, often unique solutions to environmental and societal challenges.\n\nAndean civilization lacked several characteristics distinguishing it from the pristine civilizations in the Old World and from the Mesoamerican cultures. First, and perhaps most important, Andean civilizations did not have a written language. Instead, their societies used the quipu, a system of knotted and colored strings, to convey information. Few quipus survive and they have never been fully deciphered. Scholars differ on whether the knotted cords of the quipu were able only to record numerical data or could also be used for narrative communication, a true system of writing. The use of the quipu dates back at least to the Wari Empire (600-1000 CE) and possibly to the much earlier Norte Chico civilization of the third millennium BCE.\n\nAndean civilizations also lacked wheeled vehicles and draft animals. People on land traveled only by foot and the transport of goods was only by humans or llama, pack animals which could carry loads of up to one-fourth of their weight, a maximum of . Llamas were not big or strong enough to be used for plowing or as riding animals for adults.\n\nMoreover, Andean civilizations faced severe environmental challenges. The earliest civilizations were on the hyper-arid desert coast of Peru. Agriculture was possible only with irrigation in valleys crossed by rivers coming from the high Andes, plus in a few fog oases called lomas. In the Andes, agriculture was limited by thin soils, cold climate, low or seasonal precipitation, and a scarcity of flat land. Freezing temperatures may occur in every month of the year at altitudes of more than , the homeland of many of the highland Andean civilizations.\n\nFinally, the Andean civilizations lacked money. Copper axe-monies (also called \"naipes\") and Spondylus shells functioned as mediums of exchange in some areas, especially coastal Ecuador, but most of the Andes area had economies organized on reciprocity and redistribution rather than money and markets. These characteristics were especially notable during the Inca Empire but originated in much earlier times.\n\nAgriculture in South America may have begun in coastal Ecuador with the domestication of squash about 8000 BCE by the Las Vegas culture.\n\nSome scholars believe that the earliest civilizations on the Peruvian coast initially relied more upon maritime resources than agriculture during the formative period of their societies. However, as in all civilizations until the late 19th century, agriculture was the principal occupation of the great majority of the people. The greatest contribution of Andean civilization to the modern world has been the plants its people domesticated. Crops grown by the Andeans were often unique to the region. Maize, which found its way to the Andes from Mexico, was often the most important crop at lower and intermediate elevations. The Andeans cultivated an estimated 70 different plants, almost as many as were cultivated in all of Europe and Asia. Many of these plants are no longer cultivated, or are minor crops, but important plants which were domesticated in or near the Andes include potatoes, quinoa, tomatoes, chile peppers, cotton, coca, tobacco, pineapples, peanuts, and several varieties of beans. Animals domesticated in the Andes were llamas and guinea pigs.\n\nThe challenges of the environment required sophisticated agricultural technology. Unlike the Middle East, the Andes lacked easily domesticated and large-seeded plants such as wheat and barley and large and easily domesticated animals such as horses and cattle. Agriculture on the desert coast required the development of irrigation. In the mountains, the climate and steep terrain required a range of technological solutions such as terraces (Andenes), exploitation of microclimates, and selective breeding. Due to the climatic uncertainties, farmers traditionally farmed several crops at several elevations and exposures. At a macro level, societies and states did the same with the vertical archipelago, establishing colonies at different elevations and locations to increase the possibilities of agricultural success. \n\nThe Norte Chico civilization (also called Caral) was a complex pre-Columbian society that included as many as 30 major population centers in what is now the Norte Chico region of north-central coastal Peru. It is the oldest known civilization in the Americas and one of the Cradles of civilization where civilization separately originated in the ancient world. It flourished between the 30th century BC and the 18th century BC. The alternative name, Caral-Supe, is derived from the Sacred City of Caral in the Supe Valley, a large and well-studied Norte Chico site. Complex society in Norte Chico arose a millennium after Sumer in Mesopotamia, was contemporaneous with the Egyptian pyramids, and predated the Mesoamerican Olmec by nearly two millennia.\n\nThe Chavín culture in Peru is thought to have been primarily a religious movement. The culture apparently began in the Andes highlands and then spread outward throughout the country. The Chavín culture has very distinctive art styles, particularly in effigy pots, a number of which were in feline shapes. Chavin de Huantar was an important ritual centre for Chavin Culture, dating to around 1,500 BC.\n\nThe Valdivia Culture is one of the oldest settled cultures recorded in the Americas. It emerged from the earlier Las Vegas culture and thrived on the Santa Elena peninsula near the modern-day town of Valdivia, Ecuador between 3500 BC and 1800 BC.\n\nThe Nazca culture (also Nasca) was the archaeological culture that flourished from 100 to 800 AD beside the dry southern coast of Peru in the river valleys of the Rio Grande de Nazca drainage and the Ica Valley (Silverman and Proulx, 2002). Having been heavily influenced by the preceding Paracas culture, which was known for extremely complex textiles, the Nazca produced an array of beautiful crafts and technologies such as ceramics, textiles, and geoglyphs (most commonly known as the Nazca lines). They also built an impressive system of underground aqueducts, known as \"puquios\", that still function today. The Nazca Province in the Ica Region was named for this people.\n\nThe Moche civilization (alternately, the Mochica culture, Early Chimu, Pre-Chimu, Proto-Chimu, etc.) flourished in northern Peru from about 100 AD to 800 AD, during the Regional Development Epoch. While this issue is the subject of some debate, many scholars contend that the Moche were not politically organized as a monolithic empire or state. Rather, they were likely a group of autonomous polities that shared a common elite culture, as seen in the rich iconography and monumental architecture that survive today. They are particularly noted for their elaborately painted ceramics, gold work, monumental constructions (\"huacas\") and irrigation systems. Moche history may be broadly divided into three periods – the emergence of the Moche culture in Early Moche (AD 100–300), its expansion and florescence during Middle Moche (AD 300–600), and the urban nucleation and subsequent collapse in Late Moche (AD 500–750).\n\nTiwanaku (Spanish: Tiahuanaco and Tiahuanacu) is an important Pre-Columbian archaeological site in western Bolivia, South America. Tiwanaku is recognized by Andean scholars as one of the most important precursors to the Inca Empire, flourishing as the ritual and administrative capital of a major state power for approximately five hundred years. The ruins of the ancient city state are near the south-eastern shore of Lake Titicaca in the La Paz Department, Ingavi Province, Tiwanaku Municipality, about west of La Paz. The site was first recorded in written history by Spanish conquistador and self-acclaimed \"first chronicler of the Indies\" Pedro Cieza de León. Leon stumbled upon the remains of Tiwanaku in 1549 while searching for the Inca capital Qullasuyu. Some have hypothesized that Tiwanaku's modern name is related to the Aymara term \"taypiqala\", meaning \"stone in the center\", alluding to the belief that it lay at the center of the world. However, the name by which Tiwanaku was known to its inhabitants may have been lost, as the people of Tiwanaku had no written language.\n\nThe Chachapoyas, or the 'Cloud people', were an Andean civilization living in a cloud forests of the Amazonas region of present-day northern Peru. The Incas conquered the Chachapoyas shortly before the arrival of the Spanish in Peru. The first firm evidence of the existence of their existence dates back to around 700 AD, although it is possible that they built a settlement called Gran Pajáten where some ceramics have been dated to 200 BC. The largest Chacapoyan site discovered so far is Kuelap. A number of mummified burial sites have also been discovered.\n\nThe Wari () were a Middle Horizon civilization that flourished in the south-central Andes and coastal area of modern-day Peru, from about AD 500 to 1000. (The Wari culture is not to be confused with the modern ethnic group and language known as \"Wari'\", with which it has no known link.) Wari, as the former capital city was called, is located north-east of the modern city of Ayacucho, Peru. This city was the center of a civilization that covered much of the highlands and coast of modern Peru. The best-preserved remnants, beside the Wari Ruins, are the recently discovered Northern Wari ruins near the city of Chiclayo, and Cerro Baul in Moquegua. Also well-known are the Wari ruins of \"Pikillaqta\" (\"Flea Town\"), a short distance south-east of Cuzco \"en route\" to Lake Titicaca.\n\nThe Chimú were the residents of Chimor, with its capital at the city of Chan Chan, a large adobe city in the Moche Valley of present-day Trujillo, Peru. The culture arose about 900 AD. The Inca ruler Tupac Inca Yupanqui led a campaign which conquered the Chimú around 1470 AD.\n\nThis was just fifty years before the arrival of the Spanish in the region. Consequently, Spanish chroniclers were able to record accounts of Chimú culture from individuals who had lived before the Inca conquest. Similarly, archaeological evidence suggest Chimor grew out of the remnants of Moche culture; early Chimú pottery had some resemblance to that of the Moche. Their ceramics are all black, and their work in precious metals is very detailed and intricate.\n\nThe Inca Empire, or Incan Empire (Quechua: \"Tawantinsuyu\"), was the largest empire in pre-Columbian America. The administrative, political and military center of the empire was located in Cusco in modern-day Peru. The Inca civilization arose from the highlands of Peru sometime in the early 13th century, and the last Inca stronghold was conquered by the Spanish in 1572. From 1438 to 1533 AD, the Incas used a variety of methods, from conquest to peaceful assimilation, to incorporate a large portion of western South America, centered on the Andean mountain ranges, including large parts of modern Ecuador, Peru, western and south central Bolivia, northwest Argentina, north and north-central Chile, and southern Colombia into a state comparable to the historical empires of the Old World.\n\nThe Muisca was the Chibcha-speaking people that formed the Muisca Confederation in the central highlands of present-day Colombia. They were encountered by the troops of Gonzalo Jiménez de Quesada, in name of the Spanish Empire at the time of the conquest in the spring of 1537. The Muisca comprised two confederations: Hunza (present-day Tunja) was located in the northern area, whose sovereign was the \"zaque\"; and Bacatá the southern area, whose sovereign was the \"zipa\". Both confederations were located in the highlands of modern-day Cundinamarca and Boyacá (\"Altiplano Cundiboyacense\") in the central area of Colombia's Eastern Ranges.\n\nTimoto–Cuica people compromised primarily of two tribes, the Timotes and the Cuicas, that inhabited in the Andean region of western Venezuela. They were closely related to the Muisca people of the Andes, who spoke a Chibcha language. The Timoto-Cuicas were not only composed of the Timoto and the Cuica tribes, but also the Mucuchíes, the Migures, the Tabares, and the Mucuñuques. Timoto-Cuica society was complex with pre-planned permanent villages, surrounded by irrigated, terraced fields. They also stored water in tanks. Their houses were made primarily of stone and wood with thatched roofs. They were peaceful, for the most part, and depended on growing crops. Regional crops included potatoes and ullucos. They left behind works of art, particularly anthropomorphic ceramics, but no major monuments. They spun vegetable fibers to weave into textiles and mats for housing. They are credited with having invented the arepa, a staple in Venezuelan and Colombian cuisine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17385102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17385102", "title": "Ann Buckley", "text": "Ann Buckley\n\nAnn Buckley is an Irish musicologist.\n\nBuckley holds a B.Mus., M.A. (National University of Ireland), Doctoraal (University of Amsterdam) and a Ph.D. (University of Cambridge). Research Associate at the Centre for Medieval and Renaissance Studies, Trinity College, Dublin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1249052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1249052", "title": "Baptist successionism", "text": "Baptist successionism\n\nBaptist successionism (or Baptist perpetuity) is one of several theories on the origin and continuation of Baptist churches. The theory postulates an unbroken lineage of churches (since the days of John the Baptist, who baptized Christ) which have held beliefs similar to those of current Baptists. Groups often included in this lineage include the Montanists, Paulicians, Cathari, Waldenses, Albigenses, and Anabaptists.\n\nThe perpetuity view is often identified with \"The Trail of Blood\", a pamphlet by James Milton Carroll published in 1931. Other Baptist writers who held the perpetuity view are John T. Christian, Thomas Crosby, G. H. Orchard, J. M. Cramp, William Cathcart, Adam Taylor and D. B. Ray.\n\nThis view was once commonly held among Baptists. Since the end of the 19th century, however, the theory has increasingly come under attack and today has been largely discredited. Nonetheless, the view continued to be the prevailing view among Baptists of the Southern United States into the latter 20th century. It is now identified primarily with Landmarkism, though not exclusively so. The concept finds its parallels in the Roman Catholic, Eastern Orthodox, and Anglican doctrine of apostolic succession and stands in contrast to the restorationist views of Latter Day Saints and the Stone-Campbell Restoration Movement.\n\nSince the end of the 19th century the trend in academic Baptist historiography has been away from the successionist viewpoint to the view that modern day Baptists are an outgrowth of 17th-century English Separatism. This shift precipitated a controversy among Southern Baptists which occasioned the forced resignation of William H. Whitsitt, a professor at Southern Baptist Seminary, in 1898 from the seminary for advocating the new view, though his views continued to be taught in the seminary after his departure.\n\n"}
{"id": "57921708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57921708", "title": "Bergmannstraße", "text": "Bergmannstraße\n\nThe Bergmannstraße is a street in Munich and lies west of the city center. It leads from Landsberger Straße in the north to Ridlerstraße in the south and is located in the district of Schwanthalerhöhe. The formerly referred to as Sendlinger way road, was named in 1883 after the lawyer, historian and archivist Michael Adam von Bergmann (1733-1783), who was city chief judge starting in 1762 and then became mayor in Munich.\n\nThe Bergmannstraße is located in the district Schwanthalerhöhe and in the district of Westend, a classic working-class district with cooperative buildings from the period around 1900. The district is, with about 30,000 inhabitants in an area of just over two square kilometers, one of the most densely populated districts in Munich. The proportion of foreigners is 34.5% (as of 2015), one of the highest in the city. The rental prices here in comparison with the other municipalities of Munich are at a medium level.\n\nThe Bergmannstraße is centrally located in the district and runs in a north-south direction for a length of almost 900 meters. The western parallel road is the Trappentreustraße, part of the Bundesstraße 2 R, but mostly runs underground through the Trappentreutunnel. North of the Bergmannstraße runs the multiple track railway lines from about 1.5 kilometers east of the \"München Hauptbahnhof\" (main train station), south of the Bergmannstraße the branching tracks of the Munich South Ring run towards the Munich East station and from there, on towards Rosenheim and Salzburg. The Theresienwiese, where the annual Munich Oktoberfest takes place, is located about 800 meters east of the Bergmannstraße.\n\nBergmannstraße branches off to the south of Landsberger Straße, a major arterial road that runs parallel to the Munich-Augsburg railway line, connecting the city center with the western districts and continuing in the direction of Landsberg am Lech.\n\nThe northern part of the Bergmannstraße is dominated mostly by simple four-storey to five-storey rental units and individual small businesses. In the middle part of the street, on the western side, lies the Gollierplatz, a green area of about 10,000 square meters. On the east side of the street is a historically listed multi-storey residential complex from the early 1920s. South of it stands the \"Ledigenheim\" (asylum for unmarried people), which was built as a \"Rohziegelbau\" (brick building) in the new objectivity style under the direction of the architect Theodor Fischer, originating from Lower Franconia, in the years 1925-1927. On the west side of the road, just south of Gollierplatz, is the building of the elementary school (now a primary school) from 1889 to 1891, built in Neo-Renaissance style. A little further south is a three-winged complex arranged around a forecourt, built in factual forms with slightly expressionistic impact in the years 1928 to 1931 and also called Green Block due to the light green color.\n\nFurther south, on the east side of the street, there is a post office from the years 1926 to 1928 in the new objectivity style. At the southern end of the Bergmannstraße, on the west side, are several rental units from the years 1898 to 1909, built in the Neo-Baroque style or in Art Nouveau style.\n\nThe Bergmannstraße connects at its southern end, to the Ridlerstraße which runs parallel to the railway line of the Südring, which leads from the main station to Ostbahnhof.\n\nAs long as Neuhausen was not a parish of its own, the Sendlinger Weg was also the Kirchweg, since baptisms, weddings and festive church services took place in the Sendlinger parish church of St. Margaret. It was not until 1871 that the Winthirkirche became a vicarage church and finally in 1882 a parish church. The paved dirt road ran like today's Donnersbergerstraße, leading slightly to the east at the height of the present Richelstraße, crossing the railway tracks at the height of the Maillingerstraße and then leading on to the later Bergmannstraße to the old Sendlinger church. With the extension of today's Maillingerstraße, the Bergmannstraße was also extended to the \"Burgfriendensgrenze\" (border of the castle precincts) from 1846 to 1852. Since today's Bergmannstraße was on the municipal boundary of Neuhausen and Sendling, there was still paving duties charged in 1865, for example, when a wedding party wanted to cross the border. In 1877, the Sendling community was incorporated, as a result, the dirt road came into the Munich city planning sovereignty. After the renaming of Haderer Weg in Westendstraße in coordination with the incorporation of the town, the designation of Bergmannstraße followed in 1883.\n\nThe street is completely marked in the 14th edition from 1891, of the Brockhaus Enzyklopädie and also shown as built up to the Bergmannschule.\n\nThe only direct connection of the Bergmannstraße to the public transport is the station Bergmannstraße of the bus line 53 (Münchner Freiheit – Aidenbachstraße), which runs through the Kazmairstraße, a crossroad of Bergmannstraße.\n\nThe nearest underground stations are located about 400 meters away, these are the stations Schwanthalerhöhe, as well as Heimeranplatz, the latter station is also connected to the Munich S-Bahn network.\n\nDirectly on Bergmannstraße lie ten historical monuments built between 1889 and 1927, in the youth or Neo-Baroque style as well as in the style of New Objectivity. The Bergmannstraße crosses the Gollierplatz Ensemble (E-1-62-000-19). Nr. 56, 58, 62, 64 and 66 at the southwestern end of Bergmannstraße form a coherent, handsome but not exactly uniform group of buildings.\n\nAt Gollierplatz facing Bergmannstraße, is the so-called Nymphenbrunnen (Nymph fountain) of Elmar Dietz from the 1930s.\n\n"}
{"id": "12674751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12674751", "title": "Bernard Deacon", "text": "Bernard Deacon\n\nBernard W. Deacon is a multidisciplinary academic, based at the Institute of Cornish Studies of the University of Exeter at the Tremough Campus. He has an Open University doctorate and displays his thesis on the ICS website.\n\nDeacon has worked for the Open University and Exeter University’s Department of Lifelong Learning. In 2001, he joined the Institute of Cornish Studies and is the director of the Institute's master's degree programme in Cornish Studies.\nHis main research interests are:\n\nDeacon is a fluent Cornish language speaker, and represents the Institute of Cornish Studies on the Cornish Language Partnership. In 2007, he was re-elected as Chairman of Cussel an Tavaz Kernuak (The Cornish language Council).\n\n\nDeacon has prolific publications in learned journals. The following were published in the Institute's journal:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20222384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20222384", "title": "Causes of the Holodomor", "text": "Causes of the Holodomor\n\nThe causes of the Holodomor (), the name of the famine that ravaged Soviet Ukraine in 1932–1933 whose estimates for the total number of casualties within Soviet Ukraine range between 2.2 million and 10 million, are a subject of scholarly and political debate. Some historians theorize that the famine was an unintended consequence of the economic problems associated with radical economic changes implemented during the period of Soviet industrialization. Others claim that the Soviet policies that caused the famine were an engineered attack on Ukrainian nationalism, or more broadly, on all peasants, in order to prevent uprisings. Some suggest that the famine may fall under the legal definition of genocide.\n\nDuring the 1930s, the Soviet Union was dominated by Joseph Stalin, who sought to reshape Soviet society with aggressive economic planning. As the leader of the Soviet Union, he constructed an authoritarian state whose policies have been blamed for millions of deaths. During his time as leader of the Soviet Union, Stalin made frequent use of his secret police, prisons, and nearly unlimited power to reshape Soviet society.\n\nA campaign of political repression, including arrests, deportations, and executions of better-off peasants and their families occurred from 1929 to 1932. The richer peasants were labeled \"kulaks\" and considered class enemies. More than 1.8 million peasants were deported in 1930–1931. The stated purpose of the campaign was to fight the counter-revolution and build socialism in the countryside. This policy was accomplished simultaneously with collectivization in the Soviet Union and effectively brought all agriculture in the Soviet Union under state control.\nThe \"liquidation of the kulaks as a class\" was announced by Stalin on December 27, 1929. The decision was formalized in a resolution, \"On measures for the elimination of kulak households in districts of comprehensive collectivization\", on January 30, 1930. The kulaks were divided into three categories: those to be shot or imprisoned as decided by the local secret political police; those to be sent to Siberia, North, the Urals, or Kazakhstan, after confiscation of their property; and those to be evicted from their houses and used in labour colonies within their own districts.\n\nThe combination of the elimination of kulaks, collectivization, and other repressive policies contributed to mass starvation in many parts of the Soviet Ukraine and the death of at least 7 to 10 million peasants in 1930–1937.\n\nSources such as \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" say there was no physical basis for famine in Ukraine, and that Soviet authorities set quotas for Ukraine at exceedingly high levels. However Soviet archive data suggests the grain harvest was not as large as has been assumed, and the Ukrainian historian Mykhailo Hrushevsky, who lived through the period in question and was himself a victim of a Stalinist purge, described the famine as preceded by \"a year of drought coincid[ing] with chaotic agricultural conditions.\" As the phrase \"chaotic agricultural conditions\" may suggest, the famine was perhaps caused by the food requisition actions carried out by the Soviet authorities. The government plans for central grain collection in Ukraine were lowered by 18.1% relative to the 1931 plan. Collective farms were expected to return 132,750 tons of grain, the amount that had been provided in spring 1932 as aid. The grain collection plan for July 1932 was adopted to collect 19.5 million poods. The actual state of collection was disastrous, and by July 31 only 3 million poods (compared to 21 million in 1931) were collected. The total amount of grain collected by February 5, 1933 was only 255 million poods (compared to 440 million poods in 1931).\n\nIn 1930 the Ukraine provided 27% of the Soviet harvest but 38% of the deliveries. In 1931 it made 42% of deliveries. The Ukrainian harvest fell from 23.9 million tons to 18.3 but the same quota, 7.7 million tons, was demanded, 7 million was collected. 7.7 was again demanded in 1932, reduced to 6.6, only 4.7 was collected.\n\nGleaning is the act of collecting leftover crops from farmers' fields after they have been commercially harvested or from fields where it is not economically profitable to harvest. Some ancient cultures promoted gleaning as an early form of a welfare system. In the Soviet Union, people who gleaned and distributed food brought themselves under legal risk. The Law of Spikelets criminalised gleaning under penalty of death, or ten years of forced labour in exceptional circumstances.\n\nSome sources claim there were several legislative acts adopted in order to force starvation in the Ukrainian SSR. On August 7, 1932, the Soviet government passed a law, \"On the Safekeeping of Socialist Property\", that imposed penalties starting at a ten-year prison sentence and up to the death penalty for any theft of socialist property. Stalin personally appended the stipulation: \"People who encroach on socialist property should be considered enemies of the people.\" Within the first five months of passage of the law, 54,645 individuals had been imprisoned under it, and 2,110 sentenced to death. The initial wording of the decree, \"On fought with speculation”, adopted August 22, 1932, led to common situations where minor acts such as bartering tobacco for bread were documented as punished by 5 years imprisonment. After 1934, by NKVD demand, the penalty for minor offenses was limited to a fine of 500 rubles or three months of correctional labor.\n\nThe scope of this law, colloquially dubbed the \"law of the wheat ears\", included even the smallest appropriation of grain by peasants for personal use. A little over a month later, the law was revised, as Politburo protocols revealed that secret decisions had later modified the original decree of September 16, 1932. The Politburo approved a measure that specifically exempted small-scale theft of socialist property from the death penalty, declaring that \"organizations and groupings destroying state, social, and co-operate property in an organized manner by fires, explosions and mass destruction of property shall be sentenced to execution without trial\", and listed a number of cases in which \"kulaks, former traders, and other socially-alien persons\" would be subject to the death penalty. \"Working individual peasants and collective farmers\" who stole \"kolkhoz\" property and grain would be sentenced to ten years; the death penalty would be imposed only for \"systematic theft of grain, sugar beets, animals, etc.\"\n\nSoviet expectations for the 1932 grain crop were high because of Ukraine's bumper crop the previous year, which Soviet authorities believed were sustainable. When it became clear that the 1932 grain deliveries were not going to meet the expectations of the government, the decreased agricultural output was first blamed on the kulaks, and later on agents and spies of foreign intelligence services, \"nationalists\", \"Petlurovites\", and from 1937 on, Trotskyists. According to a report from the head of the Supreme Court, by January 15, 1933 as many as 103,000 people (more than 14 thousand in the Ukrainian SSR) had been sentenced under the provisions of the August 7 decree. Of the 79,000 whose sentences were known to the Supreme Court, 4,880 had been sentenced to death, 26,086 to ten years of imprisonment, and 48,094 to other punishments.\n\nOn November 8, Molotov and Stalin issued an order stating, \"from today the dispatch of goods for the villages of all regions of Ukraine shall cease until kolkhozy and individual peasants begin to honestly and conscientiously fulfill their duty to the working class and the Red Army by delivering grain.\"\n\nOn November 24, the Politburo ordered that all those sentenced to confinement of three years or more in Ukraine be deported to labor camps. It also simplified procedures for confirming death sentences in Ukraine. The Politburo also dispatched Balytsky to Ukraine for six months with the full powers of the OGPU.\n\nSome researchers claim that in December 1932, Soviets imposed special sanctions and blockade by NKVD units which led to complete extermination by starvation of certain villages and areas. The blacklist was applied with harsher methods to selected villages and kolkhozes that were considered to be \"underperforming\" in the grain collection procurement: \"Immediate cessation of delivery of goods, complete suspension of cooperative and state trade in the villages, and removal of all available goods from cooperative and state stores. Full prohibition of collective farm trade for both collective farms and collective farmers, and for private farmers. Cessation of any sort of credit and demand for early repayment of credit and other financial obligations.\" Initially, such sanctions were applied to only six villages, but later they were applied to numerous rural settlements and districts. For peasants, who were not kolkhoz members and who were \"underperforming\" in the grain collection procurement, special measures were adopted. To reach the grain procurement quota amongst peasants, 1,100 brigades were organized, which consisted of activists, often from neighboring villages, who had either already accomplished their grain procurement quota or were close to accomplishing it.\n\nSince most of the goods supplied to the rural areas were commercial (fabrics, matches, fuels) and sometimes obtained by villagers from neighboring cities or railway stations, sanctioned villages remained thus for a long period—as an example mentioned in the December 6 decree, the village of Kamyani Potoky was removed from blacklist on October 17, 1933, when they completed their plan for grain collection early. After January 1933, the blacklist regime was modified, with 100% plan execution no longer required. As mentioned in the December 6 Decree, the villages Liutenky and Havrylivka were removed from the black list after 88% and 70% plan completion, respectively.\n\nMeasures were taken to persecute those withholding or bargaining grain. This was done frequently by requisition detachments, which raided farms to collect grain, and regardless of whether or not the peasants retained enough grain to feed themselves or enough seed left to plant the next harvest.\n\nSome sources state that Ukrainian SSR borders were sealed by the NKVD and the army in order to prevent starving peasants from travelling into territories where food was more available. Some researchers believe these measures extended to urban areas inside Ukrainian SSR. During the first five-year plan, urban population growth brought more than 10 million people from villages to cities; the number receiving food rations increased from 25 million in 1930 to 40 million in 1932. Food production declined and urban food supplies fell drastically. Reserves did not keep pace with ration requirements. Desertion of factories, combined with peasants' flight from collective farms, resulted in millions of people moving around the country. In response, the government revived the tsarist institution of internal passports at the end of 1932.\n\nSpecial barricades were set up by GPU units throughout the Soviet Union to prevent an exodus of peasants from hunger-stricken regions. During a single month in 1933, 219,460 people were either intercepted and escorted back or arrested and sentenced. In Ukraine, these measures had the following results, according to the declassified documents: During the 11 days (January 23–February 2) after the January 22, 1933 decree, 3,861 people were intercepted, of which 340 were arrested \"for further recognition\". During the same period, there were 16,773 people intercepted (907 of those not living in Ukraine) in trains and at railway stations on the whole Ukrainian territory; out of those, 1,610 people were arrested. These figures also included criminals. In the same document, the GPU states that 94,433 peasants had already left the Ukrainian territory during the period from December 15, 1932 to January 2, 1933 (data for 215 districts out of 484, and Moldavian ASRR). It has been estimated that there were some 150,000 excess deaths as a result of this policy, and one historian asserts that these deaths constitute a crime against humanity.\n\nThe government introduced new identity papers and obligatory registration for citizens in December 1932. Initially, the area of new identity papers and obligatory registration implementation was limited to Moscow, Leningrad (encircling 100 km), and Kharkiv (encircling 50 km), and the new measures were planned for implementation by June 1933. In Ukraine, introduction of the passport system was to be carried out by the end of 1933, with top priority given to its enforcement in Kharkiv, Kiev, and Odessa.\n\nTravel from Ukraine and the Northern Caucasus Kuban \"kray\" region was specifically forbidden by the directives of January 22, 1933 (signed by Molotov and Stalin) and of January 23, 1933 (joint directive Central Committee of the Communist Party and Sovnarkom). February 16, 1933, the same measures were applied to the Lower-Volga region. After February, the directives stated that travel \"for bread\" from these areas was organized by enemies of the Soviet Union, with the purpose of agitation in northern areas of the Soviet Union against kolkhozes, but was not prevented. Therefore, railway tickets were to be sold only by \"ispolkom\" permits, and those who had already reached the north should be arrested.\n\nSome sources say that the Soviet regime, by preventing news of the famine from reaching the outside world, prevented foreign sources from providing aid to alleviate the famine and associated hardships. Some claim the same thing happened during the earlier 1921–23 famine in the Soviet Union. With regard to the earlier famine, some researchers say initial Soviet pleas for aid in early autumn 1921 were refused by European countries, and what aid was eventually provided didn't come for four or five months, so the Soviet government may not have expected the outside world to be very helpful in this instance either.\n\nOn February 23, 1933, the Politburo of Central Committee adopted a decree requiring foreign journalists to seek travel permits from the General Directorate of Militia before entering the affected areas. Also, the Soviet government denied initial reports of the famine (but agreed with information about malnutrition), while preventing foreign journalists from traveling in the region. At the same time, there was no credible evidence of information blockade arrangements on a considerable number of foreign specialists (engineers, workers, etc.) who worked at construction sites at Ukrainian territory.\n\nFor example, Gareth Jones, one of David Lloyd George's private secretaries, spent several days in mid-March travelling to \"all twenty villages, not only in the Ukraine, but also in the black earth district, and in the Moscow region, and... I slept in peasants' cottages, and did not immediately leave for the next village.\" He reached the neighboring rural area of Kharkiv (the capital of Soviet Ukraine), spent some days there, and despite seeing no dead people or animals himself, reported \"that there was famine in the Soviet Union.\"\n\nOn August 23, 1933, foreign correspondents were warned individually by the press section of the Foreign Office of the Soviet Union not to attempt to travel to the provinces or elsewhere in the Soviet Union without first obtaining formal permission. The Foreign Office of the Soviet Union, without explanation, refused permission to William H. Chamberlain, \"Christian Science Monitor\" correspondent, to visit and observe the harvest in the principal agricultural regions of the North Caucasus and Ukraine. From May–July 1933, two other American correspondents were forbidden to make a trip to Ukraine. Such restrictions were softened in September 1933.\n\nScholars who have conducted research in declassified archives have reported \"the Politburo and regional Party committees insisted that immediate and decisive action be taken in response to the famine such that 'conscientious farmers' not suffer, while district Party committees were instructed to supply every child with milk and decreed that those who failed to mobilize resources to feed the hungry or denied hospitalization to famine victims be prosecuted.\"\n\nBy the end of 1933, based on data collected by undercover investigation and photos, the Bohemian-Austrian Cardinal Theodor Innitzer began an awareness-raising campaign in the West about the massive deaths by hunger and occasional cases of cannibalism that were occurring in Ukraine and the North Caucasus at that time.\n\nSome sources claim that, despite the pleas for assistance and the acknowledged famine situation, the Moscow authorities refused to provide aid; some researchers state that aid was provided only during the summer. The first reports regarding malnutrition and hunger in rural areas and towns (which were undersupplied through the recently introduced rationing system) to the Ukrainian GPU and \"oblast\" authorities are dated to mid-January 1933. However, the first food aid sent by Central Soviet authorities for the Odessa and Dnepropetrovsk regions 400 thousand poods (6600 tonnes, 200 thousand poods or 3300 tonnes for each) appeared as early as February 7, 1933. Measures were introduced to localize these cases using locally available resources. While the numbers of such reports increased, the Central Committee of the Communist Party (Bolshevik) of Ukraine issued a decree on February 8, 1933, that urged every \"hunger case\" to be treated without delay and with a maximum mobilization of resources by \"kolkhozes\", \"raions\", towns, and oblasts. The decree set a seven-day term for food aid which was to be provided from \"central sources\". On February 20, 1933, the Dnipropetrovsk oblast received 1.2 million poods of food aid, Odessa received 800 thousand, and Kharkiv received 300 thousand. The Kiev oblast was allocated 6 million poods by March 18. The Ukrainian authorities also provided aid, but it was limited by available resources. In order to assist orphaned children, the Ukrainian GPU and People's Commissariat for Health created a special commission, which established a network of kindergartens where children could get food. Urban areas affected by food shortage adhered to a rationing system. On March 20, 1933, Stalin signed a decree which lowered the monthly milling levy in Ukraine by 14 thousand tons, which was to be redistributed as an additional bread supply \"for students, small towns and small enterprises in large cities and specially in Kiev.\" However, food aid distribution was not managed effectively and was poorly redistributed by regional and local authorities.\n\nAfter the first wave of hunger in February and March, Ukrainian authorities met with a second wave of hunger and starvation in April and May, specifically in the Kiev and Kharkiv oblasts. The situation was aggravated by the extended winter.\n\nBetween February and June 1933, thirty-five Politburo decisions and Sovnarkom decrees authorized the issue of a total of 35.19 million poods (576,400 tonnes), or more than half of total aid to Soviet agriculture as a whole. 1.1 million tonnes were provided by Central Soviet authorities in winter and spring 1933 — grain and seeds for Ukrainian SSR peasants, kolhozes and \"sovhozes\". Such figures did not include grain and flour aid provided for the urban population and children, or aid from local sources. In Russia, Stalin personally authorized distribution of aid in answer to a request by Sholokhov, whose own district was stricken. However, Stalin also later reprimanded Sholokhov for failing to recognize \"sabotage\" within his district. This was the only instance that a specific amount of aid was given to a specific district. Other appeals were not successful, and many desperate pleas were cut back or rejected.\n\nDocuments from Soviet archives indicate that the aid distribution was made selectively to the most affected areas, and during the spring months, such assistance was the goal of the relief effort. A special resolution of the Central Committee of the Communist Party (Bolshevik) of Ukraine for the Kiev Oblast, from March 31, 1933, ordered peasants to be hospitalized with either ailing or recovering patients. The resolution ordered improved nutrition within the limits of available resources so that they could be sent out into the fields to sow the new crop as soon as possible. The food was dispensed according to special resolutions from government bodies, and additional food was given in the field where the laborers worked.\n\nThe last CPSU Politburo decision about food aid to the whole of the Ukrainian SSR was issued on June 13, 1933. Separate orders about food aid for regions of Ukraine appeared by the end of June through early July 1933 for the Dnipropetrovsk, Vinnytsia and Kiev regions. For the kolkhozes of the Kharkiv region, assistance was provided by end of July 1933 (Politburo decision dated July 20, 1933).\n\nSome publications claim that after recognition of the famine situation in Ukraine during the drought and poor harvests, the Soviet government in Moscow continued to export grain rather than retain its crop to feed the people, though at a significantly lower rate than in previous years. In 1930–31, there had been 5,832,000 metric tons of grains exported. In 1931–1932, grain exports declined to 4,786,000 metric tons. In 1932–1933, grain exports were just 1,607,000 metric tons, and in 1933–34, this further declined to 1,441,000 metric tons. Officially published data differed slightly:\nCereals (in tonnes):\nOnly wheat (in tonnes):\n\nIn 1932, via Ukrainian commercial ports the following amounts were exported: 988,300 tons of grains and 16,500 tons of other types of cereals. In 1933, the totals were: 809,600 tons of grains, 2,600 tons of other cereals, 3,500 tons of meat, 400 tons of butter, and 2,500 tons of fish. Those same ports imported the following amounts: less than 67,200 tons of grains and cereals in 1932, and 8,600 tons of grains in 1933.\n\nThe following amounts were received from other Soviet ports: in 1932, 164,000 tons of grains, 7,300 tons of other cereals, 31,500 tons of , and no more than 177,000 tons of meat and butter; in 1933, 230,000 tons of grains, 15,300 tons if other cereals, 100 tons of meat, 900 tons of butter, and 34,300 tons of fish.\n\nMichael Ellman states that the 1932–1933 grain exports amounted to 1.8 million tonnes, which would have been enough to feed 5 million people for one year.\n\nSome researchers found that the famine of 1932–1933 followed the assault on Ukrainian national culture that started in 1928. The events of 1932–1933 in Ukraine were seen by the Soviet Communist leaders as an instrument against Ukrainian self-determination. At the 12th Congress of the Communist Party of Ukraine (CP(b)U), Moscow-appointed leader Pavel Postyshev declared that \"1933 was the year of the defeat of Ukrainian nationalist counter-revolution.\" This \"defeat\" encompassed not just the physical extermination of a significant portion of the Ukrainian peasantry, but also the mass imprisonment or execution of Ukrainian intellectuals, writers, and artists.\n\nBy the end of the 1930s, approximately four-fifths of the Ukrainian cultural elite had been eliminated. Some, like Ukrainian writer Mykola Khvylovy, committed suicide. One of the leading Ukrainian Bolsheviks, Mykola Skrypnyk, who was in charge of the decade-long Ukrainization program that had been decisively brought to an end, shot himself in the summer of 1933 at the height of the purge of the CP(b)U. Whole academic organizations, such as the Bahaliy Institute of History and Culture, were shut down following the arrests.\n\nRepression of the intelligentsia occurred in virtually all parts of the Soviet Union.\n\nDespite the assault, education and publishing in the republic remained Ukrainianized for years afterward. In 1935–36, 83% of all school children in the Ukrainian SSR were taught in Ukrainian, with Ukrainians making up about 80% of the population. In 1936, of 1830 newspapers, 1402 were in Ukrainian, as were 177 magazines, and in 1936, 69 thousand Ukrainian books were printed.\n\nAlthough famine, caused by collectivization, raged in many parts of the Soviet Union in 1932, special and particularly lethal policies, described by Yale historian Timothy Snyder in his book \"Bloodlands: Europe Between Hitler and Stalin\" (2010), were adopted in and largely limited to Ukraine at the end of 1932 and 1933. Snyder lists seven crucial policies that applied only, or mainly, to Soviet Ukraine. He states: \"Each of them may seem like an anodyne administrative measure, and each of them was certainly presented as such at the time, and yet each had to kill\":\n\nThe recent award-winning documentary \"Genocide Revealed\" (2011), by Canadian-Ukrainian director Yurij Luhovy, presents evidence for the view that Stalin and his cohorts in the Communist regime (not necessarily the Russian people as a whole) deliberately targeted Ukrainians in the mass starvation of 1932–1933. Stalin's regime proceeded to eliminate the intelligentsia of Ukraine, to forcibly deport Ukrainian Kulaks who opposed its collectivization policies, and to orchestrate a deliberate mass starvation by hunger of Ukrainians, wherever they were found throughout the Soviet Empire. This documentary reinforces the view that the Holodomor was indeed an act of genocide.\n\nWhile a complex task, it is possible to group some of the causes that contributed to the Holodomor. They have to be understood in the larger context of the social revolution from above that took place in the Soviet Union at the time.\n\nApproaches to changing from individual farming to a collective type of agricultural production had existed since 1917, but for various reasons (lack of agricultural equipment, agronomy resources, etc.) were not implemented widely until 1925, when there was a more intensive effort by the agricultural sector to increase the number of agricultural cooperatives and bolster the effectiveness of already existing sovkhozes. In late 1927, after the XV Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, then known as the All-Union Communist Party (bolsheviks), a significant impetus was given to the collectivization effort.\n\nIn 1927, a drought shortened the harvest in southern areas of the Ukrainian SSR and North Caucasus. In 1927–1928, the winter tillage area was badly affected due to low snow levels. Despite seed aid from the State, many affected areas were not re-sown. The 1928 harvest was affected by drought in most of the grain producing areas of the Ukrainian SSR. Shortages in the harvest and difficulties with the supply system created difficulties with the food supply in urban areas and destabilized the food supply situation in the USSR in general. In order to alleviate the situation, a system of food rationing was initially implemented in Odessa in the second quarter of 1928, and later spread to Mariupol, Kherson, Kiev, Dniprelstan (Dnipropetrovsk), and Kharkiv. At the beginning of 1929, a similar system was implemented throughout the Soviet Union. Despite the aid from the Soviet Ukrainian and the Central governments, many southern rural areas registered occurrences of malnutrition and in some cases hunger and starvation (the affected areas and thus the amount of required food aid was under-counted by authorities). There was also a shortage of forage livestock. Most of Kolkhozes and recently refurnished sovkhozes went through these years with few losses, and some were even able to provide assistance to peasants in the more affected areas (seed and grain for food).\n\nDespite the intense state campaign, the collectivization, which was initially voluntary, was not popular amongst peasants: as of early 1929, only 5.6% of Ukrainian peasant households and 3.8% of arable land were \"collectivized\". In early 1929, the methods employed by the specially empowered authority \"UkrKolhozcenter\" changed from a voluntary enrollment to an administrative one. By October 1, 1929, a plan for the creation of kolkhozes was \"outperformed\" by 239%. As a result, 8.8% of arable land was collectivized.\n\nThe next major step toward \"all-over collectivization\" took place after an article was published by Stalin in \"Pravda\" in early November 1929.\n\nWhile initiated by a November 10–17 meeting of Communist Party Central Committee \"Twenty-Five Thousanders\" only trained at special short courses, the main driving force of collectivization and \"dekulakization\" in Ukraine became a \"poor peasants committee\" (\"komnezamy\") and local village councils (\"silrady\") where komnezams members had a voting majority.\n\nThe USSR Kolhozcenter issued the December 10, 1929, decree on collectivization of livestock within a three-month period (draft animals 100%, cattle 100%, pigs 80%, sheep and goats 60%). This drove many peasants to slaughter their livestock. By January 1, 1930, the percentage of collectivized households almost doubled to 16.4%.\n\nDespite the infamous January 5, 1930 decree, in which the deadline for the complete collectivization of the Ukrainian SSR was set for the period from the end of 1931 to spring 1932, the authorities decided to accelerate the completion of the campaign in autumn 1930. The high expectations of the plan were outperformed by local authorities even without the assistance of the 7,500 Twenty-Five Thousanders, and by March, 70.9% of arable land and 62.8% of peasant households were collectivized. The dekulakization plan also \"over-performed\". The first stage of delukakization lasted from second half of January until the beginning of March 1930. Such measures were applied to 309 out of 581 total districts of Ukrainian SSR, which accounted for 2,524,000 of 5,054,000 peasant households. As of March 10, 61,897 peasants households (2.5%) were \"dekulakized\", while in 1929, the percentage of dekulakized households was 1.4%. Some of the peasants and \"weak elements\" were arrested and deported \"to the north\". Many arrested \"kulaks\" and \"well-to-do\" farmers resettled their families to the Urals and Central Asia. The term \"kulak\" was ultimately applied to anybody resisting collectivization as many of the so-called kulaks were no more well-off than other peasants.\n\nThe fast-track to collectivization incited numerous peasant revolts in Ukraine and in other parts of the Soviet Union. In response to the situation, \"Pravda\" published Stalin's article \"Dizzy with success\", which blamed overeager Party members and declared that \"collective farms must not be established by force\". Soon, numerous orders and decrees were issued banning the use of force and administrative methods. Some of those dekulakized were declared to have been labeled mistakenly and received their property back, and some returned home. As a result, the collectivization process was rolled back. On May 1, 1933, 38.2% of Ukrainian SSR peasant households and 41.1% of arable land had been collectivized—by the end of August these numbers declined to 29.2% and 35.6% respectively.\n\nA second forced-voluntary collectivization campaign was initiated in the winter of 1931, with significant assistance of the so-called tug-brigades composed of kolkhoz \"udarniks\". Many kulaks, along with their families, were deported from the Ukrainian SSR.\n\nAccording to declassified data, around 300,000 peasants in Ukraine were affected by these policies in 1930–1931. Ukrainians composed 15% of the total 1.8 million kulaks relocated Soviet-wide. Beginning in summer 1931, all further deportations were recommended to be administered only to individuals.\n\nThis second forced-voluntary collectivization campaign also caused a delay in sowing. During winter and spring 1930–1931, the Ukrainian agricultural authority \"Narkomzem\" issued several reports about the significant decline of livestock caused by poor treatment, the absence of forage, stables, and farms, and \"kulak sabotage\".\n\nAccording to the first five-year plan, Ukrainian agriculture was to switch from an exclusive orientation of grain to a more diverse output. This included not only an increase in sugar beet crops; other types of agricultural production were expected to be utilized by industry, including cotton, which was established in 1931. This plan anticipated a decrease in grain area and an increase of yield and area for other crops.\n\nBy July 1, 1931, 65.7% of Ukrainian SSR peasant households and 67.2% of arable land were reported as collectivized, while the main grain and sugar beet production areas were collectivized at levels of 80–90%.\n\nThe decree of Central Committee of the Communist Party on August 2, 1931 clarified the all-over collectivization term—in order to be considered complete, the all-over collectivization did not have to reach 100%, but could not be less than 68-70% of peasants households and 75-80% of arable lands. According to the same decree, all-over collectivization was accomplished in the following areas: Northern Caucasus (Kuban), with 88% of households and 92% of arable lands collectivized; Ukraine (South), with 85% and 94% respectively; Ukraine (Right Bank), with 69% and 80%; and Moldavian ASRR (part of Ukrainian SRR), with 68% and 75%.\n\nAs of the beginning of October 1931, the collectivization of 68% of peasant households, and 72% of arable land was complete.\nThe plan for the state grain collection in the Ukrainian SSR adopted for 1931 was over-optimistic—510 million poods (8.4 Tg). Drought, administrative distribution of the plan for kolkhozes, and the lack of relevant general management destabilized the situation. Significant amounts of grain remained unharvested. A significant percentage was lost during processing and transportation, or spoiled at elevators (wet grain). The total winter sowing area shrunk by ~2 million hectares. Livestock in kolkhozes remained without forage, which was collected under grain procurement. A similar occurrence happened with respect to seeds and wages awarded to kolhoz members. Grain collection continued until May 1932, but reached only 90% of the planned amounts. By the end of December 1931, the collection plan was 79% accomplished. Many kolkhozes from December 1931 onwards suffered from lack of food, resulting in an increased number of deaths caused by malnutrition, which were registered by OGPU in some areas (Moldavian SSR as a whole and several central rayons of Vinnytsia, Kiev, and North-East rayons of Odessa oblasts) in winter, spring and early summer 1932. By 1932, the sowing campaign of the Ukrainian SSR was implemented with minimal drafht power, as most of the remaining horses were incapable of working, while the number of available agricultural tractors was too small to fill the gap.\n\nThe Government of the Ukrainian SSR tried to remedy the situation, but it had little success. Administrative and territorial reform (oblast creation) in February 1932 also added to the mismanagement. As a result, Moscow had more details about the seed situation than the Ukrainian authorities. In May 1932, in an effort to change the situation, the central Soviet Government provided 7.1 million poods of grain for food for Ukraine and dispatched an additional 700 agricultural tractors originally intended for other regions of the Soviet Union.\n\nBy July, the total amount of aid provided from Central Soviet Authorities for food, sowing and forage for the agricultural sector totaled more than 17 million poods.\n\nSpeculative prices of food in the cooperative network (5–10 times more compared to neighboring Soviet republics) brought significant peasant \"travel for bread\", while attempts to handle the situation had very limited success. The quota on carried-on foods provision was lifted by Stalin (at Kosior's request) at the end of May 1932. The July GPU reports for the first half of 1932 mentioned the \"difficulties with food\" in 127 out of 484 rayons and acknowledged the incompleteness of the information for the regions. The decree of Sovnarkom on \"Kolkhoz Trade\" issued in May fostered rumors amongst peasants that collectivization was rolled back again, as it had been in spring 1930. The number of peasants who abandoned kolkhozes significantly increased.\n\nAs a result, the government plans for the central grain collection in Ukraine was lowered by 18.1% compared to the 1931 plan. Collective farms were still expected to return 132,750 tons of grain, which had been provided in spring 1932 as aid. The grain collection plan for July 1932 was adopted to collect 19.5 million poods. The actual state of collection was disastrous, and by July 31, only 3 million poods (compared to 21 million in 1931) were collected. As of July 20, the harvested area was half the 1931 amount. The sovhozes had only sowed 16% of the defined area.\n\nBeginning in July 1932, the Ukrainian SSR met with difficulty in supplying the planned amount of food to the rationing system (implemented in early 1928) to supply extensively growing urban areas with food. This system almost became the sole source of food delivery to cities, while the alternatives, cooperative trade and black market trading, became too expensive and undersupplied to provide long-range assistance. By December 1932, due to faulty grain procurement, daily rationing for the rural population was limited to 100–600 grams of bread, with some group of rural citizens completely withdrawn from the rationing supply.\n\nThis disparity between agricultural goals and actual production grew later in the year. An expected 190 thousand tons of grain were to be exported, but by August 27, 1932, only 20 thousand tons were ready. Taking into account the situation with the harvest at right bank Ukraine, Stalin lowered procurement plan for the Ukrainian SSR by 40 million poods at the end of August 1932. By October 25, the plan for grain collection was lowered once again. Nevertheless, collection reached only 39% of the annually planned total. A second lowering of goals subtracted 70 million poods but still demanded plan completion and 100% efficiency. Attempts to reach the new goals of production proved futile in late 1932. On November 29, in order to complete the plan, Ukraine was to collect 94 million poods, 4.8 million of them from sovkhozes. On January 2, targets were again lowered to 62.5 million poods. On January 14, the targets were lowered even further to 33.1 million. At the same time, GPU of Ukraine reported hunger and starvation in the Kiev and Vinnytsia oblasts, and began implementing measures to remedy the situation. The total amount of grain collected by February 5 was only 255 million poods (compared to 440 million poods in 1931), while the numbers of \"hunger and malnutrition cases\" as registered by the GPU of Ukrainian SSR increased every day.\n\nWhilst the long-lasting effect of overall collectivization had an adverse effect on agricultural output everywhere, Ukraine had long been the most agriculturally productive area, providing over 50% of exported grain and 25% of total production of grain in the Russian Empire in 1913. Over , were used for grain production, or 90.5% of total arable land. This degree of dependency on agriculture meant that the effects of a bad harvest could be almost unlimited. This had been long recognized, and while projections for agricultural production were adjusted, the shock of limited production could not be easily managed. While collections by the state were in turn limited, there were already clear stresses. The 1932 total Soviet harvest was to be 29.5 million tons in state collections of grain out of 90.7 million tons in production. But the actual result was a disastrous 55–60 million tons in production. The state ended up collecting only 18.5 million tons in grain. The total Soviet collections by the state were virtually the same in 1930 and 1931 at about 22.8 million tons. For 1932, they had been reduced significantly to 18.5 million tons, with even lower figure in Ukraine. These were the total estimated outcomes of the grain harvests:\n\nAnother potential factor contributing to the situation in spring 1933 was that the peasants' \"incentive to work disappeared\" when they worked at \"large collective farms.\" Soviet archival data for 1930–32 also support that conclusion. This is one of the factors for reducing the sowing area in 1932 and for significant losses during harvesting. By December 1932, 725,000 hectares of grain in areas of Ukrainian SRR affected by famine remained uncollected in spring 1933.\n\nA second significant factor was \"the massacre of cattle by peasants not wishing to sacrifice their property for nothing to the collective farm.\" During winter and spring 1930–1931, the Ukrainian agricultural authority \"Narkomzem\" issued several reports about the significant decline of livestock and especially draft power caused by poor treatment, absence of forage, stables, and farms, and \"kulak sabotage\".\n\nOn August 7, 1932, the Soviet government passed a law, \"On the Safekeeping of Socialist Property\", that imposed penalties from a ten-year prison sentence up to the death penalty for any theft of socialist property. Stalin personally appended the stipulation: \"People who encroach on socialist property should be considered enemies of the people.\" Within the first five months of passage of the law, 54,645 individuals had been imprisoned under it, and 2,110 sentenced to death. The initial wording of the decree, \"On fought with speculation”, adopted August 22, 1932 led to common situations where minor acts such as bartering tobacco for bread were documented as punished by 5 years imprisonment. After 1934, by NKVD demand, the penalty for minor offenses was limited to a fine of 500 rubles or three months of correctional labor.\n\nThe scope of this law, colloquially dubbed the \"law of the wheat ears\", included even the smallest appropriation of grain by peasants for personal use. In little over a month, the law was revised, as Politburo protocols revealed that secret decisions had later modified the original decree of September 16, 1932. The Politburo approved a measure that specifically exempted small-scale theft of socialist property from the death penalty, declaring that \"organizations and groupings destroying state, social, and co-operate property in an organized manner by fires, explosions and mass destruction of property shall be sentenced to execution without trial\", and listed a number of cases in which \"kulaks, former traders and other socially-alien persons\" would be subject to the death penalty. \"Working individual peasants and collective farmers\" who stole kolkhoz property and grain should be sentenced to ten years; the death penalty should be imposed only for \"systematic theft of grain, sugar beets, animals, etc.\"\n\nSoviet expectations for the 1932 grain crop were high because of Ukraine's bumper crop the previous year, which Soviet authorities believed were sustainable. When it became clear that the 1932 grain deliveries were not going to meet the expectations of the government, the decreased agricultural output was blamed on the kulaks, and later to agents and spies of foreign Intelligence Services—\"nationalists\", \"Petlurovites\", and from 1937 on, Trotskyists. According to a report by the head of the Supreme Court, by January 15, 1933, as many as 103,000 people (more than 14,000 in the Ukrainian SSR) had been sentenced under the provisions of the August 7 decree. Of the 79,000 whose sentences were known to the Supreme Court, 4,880 had been sentenced to death, 26,086 to ten years' imprisonment, and 48,094 to other sentences.\n\nOn November 8, Molotov and Stalin issued an order stating \"from today the dispatch of goods for the villages \"of all regions of Ukraine\" shall cease until kolkhozy and individual peasants begin to honestly and conscientiously fulfill their duty to the working class and the Red Army by delivering grain.\"\n\nOn November 24, the Politburo instructed that all those sentenced to confinement of three years or more in Ukraine be deported to labor camps. It also simplified procedures for confirming death sentences in Ukraine. The Politburo also dispatched Balytsky to Ukraine for six months with the full powers of the OGPU.\n\nThe existing practice of administrative punishment known as \"black board\" (blacklist) by the November, 18 Decree of Central Committee of the Communist Party (Bolshevik) of Ukraine was applied to a greater extent and with more harsh methods to selected villages and kolkhozes that were considered to be underperforming in the grain collection procurement: \"Immediate cessation of delivery of goods, complete suspension of cooperative and state trade in the villages, and removal of all available goods from cooperative and state stores. Full prohibition of collective farm trade for both collective farms and collective farmers, and for private farmers. Cessation of any sort of credit and demand for early repayment of credit and other financial obligations.\" Initially, such sanctions were applied to only six villages, but later they were applied to numerous rural settlements and districts. For peasants who were not kolkhoz members and who were underperforming in the grain collection procurement, special measures were adopted. To \"reach the grain procurement quota\" amongst peasants, 1,100 brigades, consisting of activists (often from neighboring villages) which had accomplished their grain procurement quota or were close to accomplishing it, were organized.\n\nSince most of goods supplied to the rural areas were commercial (fabrics, matches, fuels) and sometimes obtained by villagers from neighbored cities or railway stations, sanctioned villages remained so for a long period. As an example mentioned in the December 6 \"Decree\", the village of Kamyani Potoky was removed from blacklist only on October 17, 1933, when they completed their plan for grain collection early. Beginning in January 1933, the black list regime was softened when 100% of plan execution was no longer demanded. The December 6 \"Decree\" stated that the villages Liutenky and Havrylivka were removed from the black list after reaching 88% and 70% plan completion respectively.\n\nMeasures were undertaken to persecute those withholding or bargaining grain. This was frequently done by requisition detachments, which raided farms to collect grain, and was done regardless of whether the peasants retained enough grain to feed themselves, or whether they had enough seed left to plant the next harvest.\n\nIn 1928, a by contract policy of procurement (contracts for the delivery of agricultural products) was implemented for kolkhozes and ordinary peasants alike (kulaks had a \"firm\" plan for procurement). Accordingly, from 1928 through January 1933, \"grain production areas\" were required to submit 1/3 to 1/4 of their estimated yield, while areas designated as grain were required to submit no more than 1/8 of their estimated yield. However, between autumn 1930 and spring 1932, local authorities tended to collect products from kolkhozes in amounts greater than the minimum required, in order to exceed the contracted target, in some cases by more than 200%. Especially harmful methods utilized in the by contract policy were \"counter-plan\" actions, which were additional collection plans implemented in already fulfilled contracts. Such counter-plan measures were strictly forbidden after the Spring of 1933 as \"extremely harmful for kolkhoz development.\"\n\nIn 1932, a \"1/4 of yield\" procurement quota for \"grain production areas\" of the Ukrainian SSR was planned for implementation. On September 23, 1932, a telegram signed by Molotov and Stalin noted that the harvest of 1932 was \"satisfactory\", according to estimates provided by the agricultural planning authorities, and therefore requests for seed for winter crops were refused, while total winter tillage acreage demands were increased. Later, Stalin blamed the statistical and planning authorities for inaccurately estimating potential yields and thus a \"Commissions for yield estimation\" was created on December 17, 1932, by his order. The 1932 harvest figures provided at the time were largely overestimated, and the actual difference between estimated and actual harvest was significant. Such unrealistic figures resulted in demand that was impossible to fulfill and greater grain procurement than was possible from late 1932 through February 5, 1933.\n\nThe 1932 grain procurement quota and the amount of grain actually collected were much smaller than those of any other year in the 1930s. In 1932, some 5.8 million tons of procured grain were returned to the rural sector, more than had been in 1930 or 1931.\n\nDrought has been mentioned as the major reason for the Holodomor by Soviet sources since 1983. This explanation has been modified by the Western historian Dr. Mark Tauger, who concluded that the famine was not fundamentally \"man-made\". He says that rustic plant disease, rather than drought, was the cause of the famine. The most that can be said of the contribution of human actions is that draft shortages, lack of labor, systemic economic problems, mismanagement, and peasant resistance exacerbated the crop failures already created by natural disasters.\n\nIn 1932, extremely dry weather reduced crops in some regions, and unusually wet and humid weather in most others fostered unprecedented infestations. These conditions reduced the potential yield, as drought had in 1931. Drought, rain, and infestations destroyed at least 20% of the harvest, and this would have been sufficient on its own to cause serious food shortages or even famine. The historian Mark Tauger believes that if these factors had not developed in 1931 and 1932, agricultural production would have been considerably larger.\n\nThe drought was not as bad as that of the non-famine year of 1936, and the earlier drought was centered outside Ukraine, according to the leading Soviet authority on drought. The prime cause of the major crop failure of 1932–1933 was plant rust rather than drought. Nevertheless, there was a significant drought in 1931, which caused a considerable decrease in the harvest, while in 1936 the decrease in the harvest was not as catastrophic. Historian James Mace wrote that Mark Tauger's argument \"is not taken seriously by either Russians or Ukrainians who have studied the topic.\" In addition, Stephen Wheatcroft, author of \"The Years of Hunger\", claims Tauger's view represents the opposite extreme in arguing the famine was totally accidental.\n\nAfter grain collection difficulties in 1927 and 1928, Stalin ordered the creation of state grain and meat enterprises—sovkhozes—which according to his initial vision should deliver more than 100 million poods of grain in 1932. However, in 1932 their production results were disastrous due to poor general and agricultural management and planning, despite the significant (as compared to kolkhozes) amount of modern agricultural mechanisms (agricultural tractors, harvesters, etc.) employed. The main reason for low output was that wheat was continually sown, beginning in 1929, on the same areas without fertilizers. Sovkhozes also suffered from a lack of manpower and infrastructure (roads, elevators etc.). Losses during harvesting were extremely high. Thus, instead of the expected 290 millions of poods (more than 5 million tons) in 1932, sovkhozes produced 5 time less, while the situation with livestock was even worse. As of 20 July 1932, sovhozes of the Ukrainian SRR had logged 16% of the defined sowing area.\n\nAnother factor in the decline of the harvests was that the shortage of draft power for plowing and reaping was even more acute in 1932 than in the previous year. The number of working horses declined from 19.5 million on July 1, 1931 to 16.2 million on July 1, 1932. The efforts to replace horses by tractors failed to compensate for this loss. In 1931, the total supply of tractors for agriculture amounted to , with produced at home and imported. But in 1932, because of the foreign trade crisis and home producing establishing, no tractors were imported. In the whole of 1932, tractors supplied to agriculture, considerably less than in 1931. Only about half became available in time for the harvest, and even less in time for the spring sowing. Animal draft power deteriorated in quality. Horses were fed and maintained even more inadequately than in the previous year. The acute shortage of horses led to the decision to employ cows as working animals. According to the speech of one Soviet official at one of the most affected by famine region, the Dnipropetrovsk Oblast, \"in 1932 we employ only 9000 cows, but in 1933 we involve at least 3/4 of their total number; 57000 employed at sowing.\" On February 23, the Lower Volga party bureau decided to use 200,000 cows for special field work.\n"}
{"id": "31563997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31563997", "title": "Concubhair Mac Bruideadha", "text": "Concubhair Mac Bruideadha\n\nConcubhair Mac Bruideadha (fl. 1636) was an Irish poet and a man of letters.\n\nA son of Maoilin Óg Mac Bruideadha (died 1602); both of their names occur frequently in the Inchiquin manuscripts, and were closely connected to the Earls of Thomond and their family.\n\nConcubhair’s reputation as a man of letters was acknowledged in 1636, when his approbation and signature were sought by Brother Mícheál Ó Cléirigh for the Annals of the Four Masters. His signature reads: \"Mac Bruaideadha .i. Concobhar, mac Maoilin óicc, á Chill Caoidhe 7 ó Leitir Mhaoláin.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "241669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=241669", "title": "Connoisseur", "text": "Connoisseur\n\nA connoisseur (French traditional (pre-1835) spelling of \"connaisseur\", from Middle-French \"connoistre\", then \"connaître\" meaning \"to be acquainted with\" or \"to know somebody/something.\") is a person who has a great deal of knowledge about the fine arts, cuisines, or an expert judge in matters of taste. In many areas the term now has an air of pretension, and may be used in a partly ironic sense, but in the art trade connoisseurship remains a crucial skill for the identification and attribution to individual artists of works by the style and technique, where documentary evidence of provenance is lacking. The situation in the wine trade is similar, for example in assessing the potential for ageing in a young wine through wine tasting.\n\n\"The ability to tell almost instinctively who painted a picture is defined [...] as connoisseurship\". Connoisseurs evaluate works of art on the basis of their experience of the style and technique of artists. Judgment informed by intuition is essential, but it must be grounded in a thorough understanding of the work itself. On the basis of empirical evidence, refinement of perception about technique and form, and a disciplined method of analysis, the responsibility of the connoisseur is to attribute authorship, validate authenticity and appraise quality. These findings are crucial for the valuation of works, and can be collected and organized into a \"catalogue raisonné\" of the work of a single artist or a school.\n\nIn his \"Meaning in the Visual Arts\" (1955), Erwin Panofsky explains the difference between a connoisseur and an art historian: \"The connoisseur might be defined as a laconic art historian, and the art historian as a loquacious connoisseur.\"\n\nThe English dealer and art historian, Philip Mould says, \"it is about noticing things which have specific characteristics of the artists involved, as opposed to general characteristics of the era\". He points out the importance of condition and understanding what the artist originally painted (as opposed to how the painting now looks). His colleague, Bendor Grosvenor takes the view that connoisseurship is learned by looking at paintings and cannot be taught in the classroom. He believes that it has become unfashionable in the world of art history and as a result, activities such as producing a catalogue raisonné are undervalued by the art history establishment. Svetlana Alpers confirms the art historians reservations that the identification of individual style in works is \"essentially assigned to a group of specialists in the field known as conoisseurs\". Nonetheless, Christie's Education offers an MA in the History of Art and the Art Market that includes a seminar on connoisseurship. This covers \"the critical skills needed to look at art, write about art, research and evaluate works, including handling and viewing art objects and visiting artists’ studios, conservation labs and museums.\"\n\nDuring the 18th century, the term was often used as a synonym for a still vaguer man of taste or a pretend critic.\n\nIn 1760, Oliver Goldsmith said, \"Painting is and has been and now will someday become the sole object of fashionable care; the title of connoisseur in that art is at present the safest passport into every fashionable Society; a well timed shrug, an admiring attitude and one or two exotic tones of exclamation are sufficient qualifications for men of low circumstances to curry favour.\"\n\nIn 1890, Giovanni Morelli wrote, \"art connoisseurs say of art historians that they write about what they do not understand; art historians, on their side, disparage the connoisseurs, and only look upon them as the drudges who collect materials for them, but who personally have not the slightest knowledge of the physiology of art.\"\n\nThe attributions of painted pottery were an important project to the History of Ancient Art and Classical Archeology (Ancient Greece and South Italy). Two specialists were the most important authorities in archaeological connoisseurship: John Davidson Beazley (1885-1970) and Arthur Dale Trendall (1909-1995).\n\nConnoisseur is also used in the context of gastronomy, i.e. in connection with fine food, beer, wine, tea and many other products whose consumption can be pleasing to the senses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1183109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1183109", "title": "Enkyō (Kamakura period)", "text": "Enkyō (Kamakura period)\n\n, also romanized as Enkei, was a after \"Tokuji\" and before \"Ōchō.\" This period spanned the years from October 1308 through April 1311. The reigning emperor was .\n\n\nInitially, former-Emperor Fushimi administered the court up through the time he took the tonsure as a Buddhist monk, which happened after this \"nengō\" ended.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50816353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50816353", "title": "Environmental globalization", "text": "Environmental globalization\n\nEnvironmental globalization refers to the internationally coordinated practices and regulations (often in the form of international treaties) regarding environmental protection. An example of environmental globalization would be the series of International Tropical Timber Agreement treaties (1983, 1994, 2006), establishing International Tropical Timber Organization and promoting sustainable management of tropical forests. Environmental globalization is usually supported by non-governmental organizations and governments of developed countries, but opposed by governments of developing countries which see pro-environmental initiatives as hindering their economic development.\n\nKarl S. Zimmerer defined it as \"the increased role of globally organized management institutions, knowledge systems and monitoring, and coordinated strategies aimed at resource, energy, and conservation issues.\" Alan Grainger in turn wrote that it can be understood as \"an increasing spatial uniformity and contentedness in regular environmental management practices\". Steven Yearley has referred to this concept as \"globalization of environmental concern\". Grainger also cited a study by Clark (2000), which he noted was an early treatment of the concept, and distinguished three aspects of environmental globalization: \"global flows of energy, materials and organisms; formulation and global acceptance of ideas about global environment; and environmental governance\" (a growing web of institutions concerned with global environment).\n\nEnvironmental globalization is related to economic globalization, as economic development on a global scale has environmental impacts on such scale, which is of concern to numerous organizations and individuals. While economic globalization has environmental impacts, those impacts should not be confused with the concept of environmental globalization. In some regards, environmental globalization is in direct opposition to economic globalization, particularly when the latter is described as encouraging trade, and the former, as promoting pro-environment initiatives that are an impediment to trade. For that reason, an environmental activist might be opposed to economic globalization, but advocate environmental globalization.\n\nGrainger has discussed that environmental globalization in the context of international agreements on pro-environmental initiatives. According to him, precursors to modern environmental globalization can be found in the colonial era scientific forestry (research into how to create and restore forests). Modern initiatives contributing to environmental globalization include the 1972 United Nations Conference on the Human Environment, came from the World Bank 1980s requirements that development projects need to protect indigenous peoples and conserve biodiversity. Other examples of such initiative include treaties such as the series of International Tropical Timber Agreement treaties (1983, 1994, 2006). Therefore, unlike other main forms of globalization economic, political and cultural which were already strong in the 19th century, environmental globalization is a more recent phenomena, one that begun in earnest only in the later half of the 20th century. Similarly, Steven Yearley states that it was around that time that the environmental movement started to organize on the international scale focus on the global dimension of the issues (the first Earth Day was celebrated on 1970).\n\nAccording to Grainger, environmental globalization (in the form of pro-environmental international initiatives) is usually supported by various non-governmental organizations and governments of developed countries, and opposed by governments of developing countries (Group of 77), which see pro-environmental initiatives as hindering their economic development. Governmental resistance to environmental globalization takes form or policy ambiguity (exemplified by countries which sign international pro-environmental treaties and pass domestic pro-environmental laws, but then proceed to not enforce them) and collective resistance in forums such as United Nations to projects that would introduce stronger regulations or new institutions policing environmental issues worldwide (such as opposition to the forest-protection agreement during the Earth Summit in 1992, which was eventually downgraded from a binding to a non-binding set of Forest Principles).\n\nWorld Trade Organization has also been criticized as focused on economic globalization (liberalizing trade) over concerns of environmental protection, which are seen as impeding the trade. Steven Yearley states that WTO should not be described as \"anti-environmental\", but its decisions have major impact on environment worldwide, and they are based primarily on economic concerns, with environmental concerns being given secondary weight.\n\n"}
{"id": "19823013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19823013", "title": "External history", "text": "External history\n\nExternal history of a language refers to the social and geopolitical history of the language: migrations, conquests, language contact, and uses of the language in trade, education, literature, law, liturgy, mass media, etc. It is contrasted with internal history, which refers to linguistic forms (phonology, morphology, syntax, and lexicon) and semantics. \n\n"}
{"id": "58620189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58620189", "title": "Frances Broaddus-Crutchfield", "text": "Frances Broaddus-Crutchfield\n\nFrances Broaddus Crutchfield (19---), born in Richmond, Virginia, is an actress, author of \"Saving the Mattaponi\" published in 2001, political activist, environmentalist, and writer for the Richmond Free Press and other venues. She is a supporter of and liaison with the Mattaponi tribe of Native Americans in the United States. She and her son, Henry Broaddus, were the plaintiffs in the case \"Frances Broaddus Crutchfield and Henry Broaddus v. the County of Hanover, Virginia\".\n\nFances Broaddus Crutchfield is an advocate for Native Americans. She wrote \"Saving the Mattaponi\" to raise funds for the tribe. She read her poem \"Mantle\", based on the design of a monument tribute to American Indians, on station WTVR in Richmond, Virginia and other Virginia stations.\n\nShe has published articles in the Richmond Free Press and many OpEd pieces in the Richmond Times-Dispatch and other publications. Frances Broaddus-Crutchfield was awarded first place for speech/speeches, third place for feature story (8C) – online publication, and third place for books and creative writing (61A) – creative verse, single poem.\n\nBroaddus-Crutchfield began public speaking and acting after finishing her studies at Columbia University. She worked in theater in Maine and New York before returning to Virginia in 1970. At Rappahannock Westminster-Canterbury near Irvington, she was the featured speaker on \"Sold Out Shadows: Indians and the American Revolution\" for a meeting of the Daughters of the American Revolution, of which she was honorary regent of the William Byrd Chapter, District II membership chairman.\n\nShe serves on the board of Virginia Institute of Pastoral Care. VIPCare is an interfaith, not-for profit counseling and educational institute and one of the oldest leading pastoral counseling centers in the nation. VIPCare is accredited by the American Association of Pastoral Counselors and is a recipient of the Distinguished Program Leadership Award. \n\nThe solar farm was a natural outcome of her interest in environmental activism and clean energy.\n\nBroaddus-Crutchfield is active in Democratic Politics.\nBroaddus-Crutchfield is a member of Liberal Women of Chesterfield County (LWCC), an organization of activists lobbying for the Democratic Party in Chesterfield County, Virginia and elsewhere. As a Democrat and a member of LWCC, she lobbys for causes in which she believes. She engages in canvassing for candidates in Chesterfield County and is one of the largest donors to Democratic national, state, and local candidates. She is an environmental activist involved in protecting the rights of property owners.\n\nIn an OpEd piece to the Richmond Times-Dispatch, Frances Broaddus-Crutchfield discussed the best advice she'd ever been given.\n\nIn her extended family relationships, in the early 19th century, Edmund Ruffin, a wealthy slaveholder and soil conservationist, experimented with earth rejuvenation on his farm along the Pamunkey River in Hanover County, Virginia \"spreading a combination of clay and lime called marl on his fields.\"\n\nFrancis's son, Henry Broaddus, is the great-great-great grandson of Andrew Ruffin, the original owner of the land which is now the site of a new solar farm. Francis and Henry, partnering with SunEnergy1 of North Carolina, proposed a 222-acre solar facility on the family farm along U.S. 360 near the King William County line. Henry is a vice-president for strategic initiatives and public affairs at William and Mary College in Williamsburg, Virginia.\n\nFrancis attended St. Catherine's School in Richmond. She holds a bachelor's degree from Salem College in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, and a master's in theater arts from Columbia University.\n\nThe farm was where her son Henry's father, Meade Broaddus, said his last goodbye. He was killed in a car accident in 1976, when Henry was five months old.\n\nShe married George Crutchfield in 1995, and he shared Frances Broaddus-Crutchfield's charitable interests. In 2010 he supported her efforts as Powhatan Christmas Mother of the Year.\nShe made a large gift to VCU Medical Center's Pauley Heart Center. \nBroaddus-Crutchfield said that George Crutchfield, the Director of the VCU School of Mass Communications for many years, who died in March 2011, had already experienced two open heart surgeries by the time she met and married him. “Were it not for the doctors in the [VCU] Pauley Heart Center, most especially Dr. [Michael] Hess, I would not have had a second married life,” she said. \n\nDr. Hess was the first president of the International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation (ISHLT), credited with starting the ISHLT at the annual meeting of the American Medical Association in 1981. “I would not have known him had they not been able to save him.” Before Crutchfield died, the family hosted a luncheon at VCU Medical Center Hospital to celebrate the long doctor-patient relationship. There she read a poem which she had written honoring Dr. Hess. The annual lecture series begun by her gift supports and advances education in heart failure. \n\n\"[Dr. Crutchfield and I] were doctor, patient and friends for 34 years,\" said Dr. Hess, VCU Clinical Professor of Medicine and a noted heart failure and heart transplantation scholar. \"[Dr. Crutchfield] was a brilliant man, who built one of the more distinguished schools of mass communications in the world.\" [Mrs. Crutchfield's] gift as a tribute to her husband combined medicine, cardiology, education, and communication, all of which were of importance to the life of Dr. Crutchfield. \"I am delighted with this gift that will allow us to ensure the intellectual collaboration and stimulation of bringing the top experts in heart failure and heart transplantation to interact with our physicians,\" said Dr. Kenneth Ellenbogen, Chair of Cardiology Division, Pauley Heart Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "509323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=509323", "title": "Francisco de Montejo", "text": "Francisco de Montejo\n\nFrancisco de Montejo y Álvarez (; c. 1479 in Salamanca – c. 1553 in Spain) was a Spanish conquistador in Mexico and Central America.\n\nFrancisco de Montejo was born in 1479 in Salamanca, Spain, to Juan de Montejo and Catalina Álvarez de Tejeda. He left Spain in 1514, and arrived in Cuba in time to join Juan de Grijalva's expedition along the coast of Yucatán and the Gulf of Mexico. There he had the rank of Captain, and command of 4 ships. On his return to Cuba, he joined the Hernán Cortés expedition, and helped found the city of Villa Rica de la Vera Cruz with Alonso Hernandez Puertocarrero. Cortés sent Francisco and Alonso as proctors to King Charles of Spain in 1519 to report on the expedition. While in Spain Montejo married Beatriz de Herrera.\n\nIn December 1526 the Spanish King, Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor, issued a royal decree naming Montejo Adelantado and Capitan General of Yucatán. He returned to Yucatán in 1528, and attempted to conquer it along the east coast (Tulum, Chetumal) but was driven back by the ferocity of the resistance of the Maya living along this coast. In 1530 he decided to try conquering Yucatán from the west, and began by pacifying what is today the modern Mexican state of Tabasco. From 1531–1535 he tried unsuccessfully to conquer western Yucatán, with some successes but in 1535 his forces were driven from Yucatán. In 1533, Montejo received a royal decree giving him permission to conquer Puerto Caballos and Naco in Honduras. This put him in conflict with Pedro de Alvarado, who had received a similar decree in 1532. This only became an issue after Alvarado declared he had conquered and pacified the province of Honduras in 1536. Alvarado continued as Governor of Honduras until 1540, although he was recalled to Spain in 1537.\n\nIn 1540, the Spanish King awarded the Governorship of Honduras to Montejo, and he traveled to Gracias a Dios to install an administration loyal to him.\n\nIt would fall to Montejo's son, Francisco de Montejo (\"el Mozo\") (born 1502, died 1565), to conquer Yucatán. He founded the city of San Francisco de Campeche in 1540, and Mérida in 1542. In 1546, the elder Montejo assumed the title of Governor and Captain General of Yucatán. However, by 1550 complaints about him caused him to be recalled to Spain where he died in 1553.\n\nMontejo was survived by his eponymous son, and a daughter, Catalina Montejo y Herrera.\n\n"}
{"id": "59137675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59137675", "title": "Frazelia Campbell", "text": "Frazelia Campbell\n\nFrazelia Campbell (March 18, 1849 – November 5, 1930) was an American classicist and teacher. She featured in the \"Black Classicists\" travelling exhibition celebrating the achievements of African Americans working in Classical education.\n\nFrazelia Campbell was born in Charleston, South Carolina on March 18th, 1849 to Frederick and Julia Swartz Campbell.\n\nCampbell studied at Philadelphia's Institute for Colored Youth, graduating in 1867. She was probably taught by Fanny Jackson Coppin, a campaigner for women's education who taught Greek, Latin, and Mathematics at the Institute from 1865 and served as its Principal from 1869-1902. After graduation she worked at the Institute, teaching Latin, German, and Spanish, becoming the Principal of the Girls' High School at the Institute in 1876. When the Institute discontinued its academic work in 1902, Campbell moved to a teaching post at Allen University in Columbia, South Carolina, a university founded to support the education of African American people. During her time at the Institute for Colored Youth and at Allen University, she published articles on a range of classical and educational topics in the African Methodist Episcopal Church Review. Campbell taught at Allen University until at least 1912; at some point after this she returned to live in Philadelphia, where she died on November 5, 1930.\n\nCampbell is one of only two women, along with Helen Maria Chesnutt, to be featured in the 'Black Classicists' exhibition, which celebrates the contributions of African Americans to Classical education in the 19th and early 20th centuries.\n\n"}
{"id": "14360779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14360779", "title": "Frihedsfonden", "text": "Frihedsfonden\n\nFrihedsfonden was founded on May 31, 1945. It was a charity for the families of fallen members of the Danish resistance movement until its dissolution in 1996.\n"}
{"id": "58690010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58690010", "title": "Gershon Hundert", "text": "Gershon Hundert\n\nGershon David Hundert (b. 1946) is a noted Canadian historian of Early Modern Polish Jewry and Leanor Segal Professor at McGill University.\n\nBorn to a Jewish family in Toronto, Gershon Hundert is one of the three sons of Charles and Norma Hundert and a third generation immigrant from Eastern Europe. His paternal grandparents arrived in Canada in the early 1910s from Obertyn (part of the Ruthenian Voivodeship in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth before the Second Partition in 1792, western Ukraine today) and maternal grandparents from Łódź. \n\nHundert received his B.A. from Jewish Theological Seminary and School of General Studies at Columbia University (1968) and M.A. from Ohio State University (1971), where he wrote a thesis on 18th-Century Hasidic Rabbi Abraham Kalisker under the supervision of Zvi Ankori (1920-2012), a specialist of Byzantine Karaites and a student of Salo Baron.\n\nFollowing Ankori, Hundert returned to Columbia to pursue a doctorate degree in history. He primarily studied with (b. 1935), political and diplomatic historian of early modern Poland-Lithuania, and completed his dissertation in 1978 titled “Security and Dependence: Perspectives on Seventeenth-century Polish-Jewish Society Gained Through a Study of Jewish Merchants in Little Poland.” He was also deeply influenced and mentored by Israel historian (1924-2011), the pioneer scholar of Polish-Jewish relations. \n\nIn 1975, Hundert came back to Canada and taught at McGill University ever since. He was appointed as lecturer (1975-1978), assistant professor (1978-1983), associate professor (1983-1992), Montreal Jewish Community Professor of Jewish Studies (1993-2002), and currently Leanor Segal Professor of Jewish Studies (since 2002). He has served as Department Chair of Jewish Studies twice (1984-1988 and 1998-2007). He also held visiting professorships at Harvard, Yale and the Hebrew University. He was the editor-in-chief of \"The YIVO Encyclopedia of Jews in Eastern Europe\" (2008) and an elected fellow of the Royal Society of Canada (2011- ).\n\nHundert is married to Ruth, daughter of notable WWII Veteran Nathaniel Mencow. They raised one son and two daughters.\n\nSucceeding and , Gershon Hundert represents the postwar-born generation of premodern Polish Jewish historians and, along with and , establishes “a new era of the historiography of Polish Jewry.” \n\nHis first monograph, \"The Jews in a Polish Private Town\" (1992), studies social and economic history of Opatów Jewry in the eighteenth century, exemplifying Jewish autonomy and identity and their crucial commercial roles in the later period of the Commonwealth. The work also sheds new light on Polish local history and Jewish microhistory. \n\nHis more renowned second monograph, \"Jews in Poland-Lithuania in the Eighteenth Century\" (2004), is an essential revisionist work in early modern European Jewish historiography. It examines the life of the understudied, but extremely important, East Central European Jewry -- world's largest Jewish community at the time, and argues for their \"mentalité\" of chosenness and their particularities on the path towards modernity. \n\nAnother achievement is the groundbreaking \"The YIVO Encyclopedia of Jews in Eastern Europe\" published in 2008. 450 leading scholars from the world have contributed to this decade-long project, of which Hundert served as the editor-in-chief. The work includes more than 1,800 entries and covers all aspects of Eastern European Jewish experiences from the Middle Ages to the late twentieth century. The searchable version of the encyclopedia was launched in 2010. \n\nBesides, he edited an essay collection on the development of scholarship on Hasidism in 1991 and co-compiled a bibliography on Eastern European Jewish historiography in 1984.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n/ . (Also published in Russian, Hebrew, Polish and Lithuanian).\n\n\n\nhttp://www.yivoencyclopedia.org - launched 2010.\n\n\n\n\n\nTalk: Record of Jewish Merchant from the 18th Century, the Newest Materials.\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t36ln-WbOyY\n\nTalk: Jews and Other Poles: Problems of Language.\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oyEUk6po164\n\nInterview after the FRSC Election: https://blogs.mcgill.ca/jewishstudies/2011/11/22/interview-with-professor-gershon-hundert/\n"}
{"id": "38580236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38580236", "title": "Helen Sahagian", "text": "Helen Sahagian\n\nHelen Sahagian was (1920 – March 28, 2013) an author, writer, historian, and a founding member of the National Association for the Armenian Studies and Research (NAASR).\n\nHelen Sahagian has conducted independent research on several Armenian subjects, with particular attention to the work of the American missionaries in Sivas and Van. Her articles have been published in the \"Journal of Armenian Studies\", \"Ararat\", and the \"Armenian Mirror-Spectator\" newspaper. She has participated in the work of the Sebastasti Compatriotic Union and the Historical Commission of Arlington, Massachusetts.\n"}
{"id": "31816013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31816013", "title": "Het Notite Boeck der Christelyckes Kercke op de Manner of Philips Burgh", "text": "Het Notite Boeck der Christelyckes Kercke op de Manner of Philips Burgh\n\nHet Notite Boeck der Christelyckes kercke op de Manner of Philips Burgh is a rare surviving record book of the Old Dutch Church of Sleepy Hollow in Sleepy Hollow, New York.\n\nAbraham de Revier Sr. evidently kept a private memorandum book that is now lost to history, which was heavily drawn upon in 1715 by Dirck Storm to compose the church's history. The Old Dutch Church's book of records is one of the most important books in early American history—chronicling Dutch Colonial American village life in the English-occupied Province of New York.\n\nThe book is divided into five \"books\" or divisions:\n\n"}
{"id": "54159484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54159484", "title": "Horacio Roque Ramírez", "text": "Horacio Roque Ramírez\n\nHoracio N. Roque Ramírez (November 15, 1969 – December 25, 2015) was a Salvadoran American oral historian, writer and advocate whose work focused on LGBT Latino communities and the Central American experience in the United States. He was a faculty member in the Department of Chicana and Chicano Studies at the University of California, Santa Barbara.\n\nRoque Ramírez was born in Santa Ana, El Salvador. Fleeing the Salvadoran Civil War, he immigrated to Los Angeles at age 12, in 1981. He earned a B.A. in psychology and M.A. in history at UCLA, and a Ph.D. in Ethnic Studies from the University of California, Berkeley. He came out as a gay man in 1992.\n\nRoque Ramírez began his oral history work with San Francisco's queer Latina/o community, centered in the Mission District, as a doctoral student at UC Berkeley in the 1990s, working with activists and organizations including Diane Felix and Proyecto ContraSIDA por Vida, and documenting predecessor organizations such as the Gay Latino Alliance.\n\nAt the time of his death he was working on the book \"Queer Latino San Francisco: An Oral History, 1960s-1990s\". He also served as an expert witness on political asylum and immigration.\n\n"}
{"id": "4722970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4722970", "title": "Jeremy Black (historian)", "text": "Jeremy Black (historian)\n\nJeremy Black MBE (born 30 October 1955) is a British historian and a professor of history at the University of Exeter. He is a senior fellow at the Center for the Study of America and the West at the Foreign Policy Research Institute in Philadelphia. He is the author of over 100 books, principally but not exclusively on 18th-century British politics and international relations, and has been described as \"the most prolific historical scholar of our age\".\n\nBlack graduated from Queens' College, Cambridge, with a starred first and then did postgraduate work at St John's and Merton Colleges, Oxford.\n\nHe taught at Durham University from 1980 as a lecturer, then professor, before moving to Exeter University in 1996. He has lectured extensively in Australasia, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy and the U.S..\n\nHe was editor of \"Archives\", journal of the British Records Association, from 1989 to 2005. He has served on the Council of the British Records Association (1989–2005); the Council of the Royal Historical Society (1993–1996 and 1997–2000); and the Council of the List and Index Society (from 1997). He has sat on the editorial boards of \"History Today\", \"International History Review\", \"Journal of Military History\", \"Media History\" and the \"Journal of the Royal United Services Institute\" (now the \"RUSI Journal\"). He is an advisory fellow of the Barsanti Military History Center at the University of North Texas.\n\n\nBlack has authored over 90 books: a full list is available on his website. In 2011, Black presented a lecture on \"London History\" for The Marc Fitch Lectures.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12085361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12085361", "title": "Joachim Bruel", "text": "Joachim Bruel\n\nJoachim Bruel (\"Brulius\") was a theologian and historian, born early in the seventeenth century at Vorst, a village of the province of Brabant, Belgium, died June 29, 1653. After entering the order to assist in the establishment of Augustinians he was sent to Bourges, France, to finish his studies in philosophy and theology. At Bourges he received the degree of Master in Sacred Theology. In 1638 he was chosen prior of the convent of his order at Cologne. Twice afterwards (1640 and 1649) he filled the office of prior provincial. He is of special interest to the student of Peruvian and Chinese missions.\n\nAmong his published works are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48390961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48390961", "title": "KONARE", "text": "KONARE\n\nKONARE or Komiteti Nacional Revolucionar (Revolutionary National Committee) was a left-wing revolutionary committee of the Albanian political \"émigré\" in Europe, from 1925 till mid-30s. Its central political figure was Bishop Fan Noli.\n\nAfter the June Revolution, Ahmet Zogu and his supporters managed to overthrow Noli's government, making also use of the financials and military support from Kingdom of Yugoslavia and Greece. Most of the former democratic opposition fled to Italy, settling later in the western Europe, mainly in Vienna. Two organizations were formed there; KONARE and \"Bashkimi Kombëtar\" (National Union). The second consisted of patriotic-democratic anti-Zogist figures, while KONARE comprised also strong left-wing ideology. Beside being the main anti-Zogist opposition during 1925–30, it showed was anti-feudal, anti-imperialist, and pro-Soviet nuances. KONARE managed to retrieve financial support by the COMINTERN with the intermediation of Kosta Boshnjaku, one of the first Communist emissaries deployed by the soviets in Albania with the task of establishing communist cells, and possibly a Communist Party. In addition to young revolutionary activists, KONARE also attracted the members of the irredentist Committee of Kosovo, who were the sworn enemies of Ahmet Zogu and vice versa. Noli and Boshnjaku managed to procure some financial support for the Committee through Comintern, affiliating them with the Balkan Federation.\n<br>According to Sejfi Vllamasi's memoirs, the founder of KONARE beside Fan Noli were: Qazim Koculi, Mustafa Kruja, Riza Dani, and Xhevat Korça from the former \"Krahu Kombëtar\" political fraction of the Albanian Parliament, other civilians and officers as Kol Tromara, Qazim Kokoshi, Llano Borshi, Major Shefqet Korça, captains Aziz Çami and Riza Cerova; and most of the youth members of \"Bashkimi\" (The Union) - a former political group founded by Avni Rustemi, such as Halim Xhelo, Sejfulla Malëshova, Llazar Fundo, Qamil Çela, Demir Godelli, Selim Shpuza, Haki Stërmilli, Reshat Këlliçi, etc. \n<br>The main press organ of KONARE was \"Liria Kombëtare\" (National Freedom). Early revolutionary figures like Halim Xhelo and Riza Cerova would crystallize their political persona through this newspaper. In April 1927, KONARE changed the name to \"Komiteti i Çlirimit Kombëtar\" (National Liberation Committee). By 1928, it came de facto under the control of Comintern; 24 young Albanians were sent to Moscow to follow their studies in high-end Soviet institutions.\n\nDespite the efforts, the committee did not pose any real threats to Zogu's regime, who from his side was elected President of Albania in 1925 (thus ending the era of the Principality of Albania), while on 1 September 1928 became Zog I, King of Albania, establishing a constitutional monarchy.\n<br>Disappointed by the political overturns, Noli decided to retire from political life and move back to the US. This would start the end of the committee, which would practically cease by mid 1930s. Many of its political figures moved into the parallel \"National Union\" organization which would continue to oppose the Zogu's regime in Albania, culminating with the assassination attempt of 1931.\n\n"}
{"id": "2455834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2455834", "title": "Kitabatake Chikafusa", "text": "Kitabatake Chikafusa\n\nKitabatake, in his writings, held a strong distaste for the Ashikaga clan, the ruling family at the time who held the position of Shogun and maintained a rival Imperial court known as the Northern Court. This disdain came not only because they were warriors rather than nobles, who were clumsy and uncouth at Court, but because they were of a less distinguished branch of the famous Minamoto clan than Kitabatake's own Murakami branch. In particular, he disliked Ashikaga Takauji, the first Ashikaga shogun, who had originally supported Go-Daigo's claim to the Throne, but who ultimately headed the Northern Court and sought to destroy all who supported the Emperor's Southern Court.\n\nKitabatake also wrote of Nitta Yoshisada, one of the greatest military supporters of Go-Daigo, in a bad light. He saw Nitta as a warrior, little different from the Shoguns, but also accused him of never being available when the Emperor called upon him. Had Nitta been more available in the south of the country, instead of fighting his own battles in the north, Kitabatake claims, Nitta could have prevented the death of Kitabatake Akiie, Chikafusa's son.\n\nWhen Go-Daigo died in 1339, Chikafusa was under siege in his stronghold in Hitachi Province. He sent copies of his major works to the new emperor, twelve-year-old Emperor Go-Murakami, advising him and his advisors. Though he is most well known for his writings and his role as Imperial advisor, Kitabatake was also a competent commander in battle, and held off the superior forces of the shogunate on many occasions. The siege of Hitachi lasted four years, and though his fortress ultimately fell to the supporters of the shogunate, Kitabatake escaped to Yoshino, the capital of the Southern Court, where he advised the Emperor until his own death in 1354.\n\nChikafusa is considered one of the greatest men of his time, along with his rival Ashikaga Takauji. Though his works are heavily colored by his personal bias and political motives, they are some of the most detailed accounts available on the history of Japan's feudal government and Imperial line.\n\nIn his writings on the legitimate imperial lineage, Kitabatake delved into the subject of land ownership. In one document he denounces the Provincial Shugo and Jitō (Constables and Stewards) as land-hungry, and writes that the creation of this system in 1190 altered the traditional state of the country, and caused it to lose the art of government.\n\nThough the full details of his ideas for reform are unknown, it is likely that Kitabatake sought a return to the governmental structures set down during the Taihō Era, in 702, before the rise of feudalism and military rule. He recognized that certain privileges gained by the \"bushi\" (great warrior families) and \"kuge\" (Court nobility) in that time would not be relinquished, but he did seek to abolish the systems of land tenure and tax collection that supported the power of the \"bushi\". Kitabatake viewed the \"bushi\", and by extension the \"bakufu\" (shogunate), the military government, as enemies of the throne.\n\nIn 1339, he wrote \"Jinnō Shōtōki\", which related the history of Japan through analysis of the Imperial reigns, from the earliest legendary semi-mythical emperors down to Daigō II and his successor Murakami II. It was intended largely as a guide to the young Murakami, and as a treatise defending the Southern Court's legitimacy. It was largely written on the road, and recompiled and edited in 1343.\n\nOne of the issues it addressed was the chaotic and unbalanced distribution of land, which he blamed on the government. But he also blamed the government officials and feudal lords who claimed the land. He wrote that seeking rewards was not part of proper behavior, and that it was a warrior's place to give up land and even his life for duty. He also claimed that the chaos of feudalism was derived, ultimately, from an unlimited number of people claiming a limited amount of land.\n\nKitabatake's other major work, \"Shokugen-shō\", was also written in 1339, largely from memory, as the author, under siege in his home province, was unable to perform research at Court. It described the origins and organization of governmental offices and structures, as well as the author's opinions on the promotion and appointment of officials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42573906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42573906", "title": "Liberty Park", "text": "Liberty Park\n\nLiberty Park is a elevated public park at the World Trade Center in New York City, overlooking the National September 11 Memorial & Museum. It is located above the Vehicular Security Center and opened on June 29, 2016. The St. Nicholas National Shrine is located within the park, as well as \"The Sphere\", the iconic sculpture salvaged from the World Trade Center site. Another statue, \"America's Response Monument\", is also located in the park.\n\nConstruction began in 2013 when the Vehicular Security Center was completed. Liberty Park is located on top of the Vehicular Security Center, the latter of which protects the site against unauthorized vehicles. The parking facility is linked to the concourse area, which feeds the entire 16-acre World Trade Center site. About $50 million was allocated to the park's construction by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey in December 2013. The park opened on June 29, 2016. On August 16, 2017, the Port Authority installed \"The Sphere\" within the park, overlooking its original location.\n\nThe park has a capacity of 750 people and is the roof of the Vehicular Security Center. A \"living wall\", measuring long and tall, is located on the park's northern facade adjoining Liberty Street. It contains 826 panels, upon which are attached \"periwinkle, Japanese spurge, winter creeper, sedge and Baltic ivy\", A walkway from the pedestrian bridge curves along the park. Egresses include three stairways, the pedestrian bridge, and a straight ramp down to Greenwich Street. One of these stairs, a wide staircase is located on the east side of the park, between Greenwich Street to the east and the back of the church to the west. There are wood benches and a small amphitheater-like elevated space at the western end of the park, facing West Street. Finally, there is a \"continuous overlook\" along much of Liberty Street in addition to \"a gently curving balcony\" at the church's foot. A sapling from the Anne Frank tree is located alongside the ramp at the southeastern corner of Liberty Park.\n\n5 World Trade Center was originally planned to be built adjacent to the southern edge of the Vehicular Security Center and Liberty Park on the site of the former Deutsche Bank Building. , the Port Authority does not plan to proceed with construction of a mixed-use skyscraper on the site until the rest of the complex is complete, which will be no earlier than 2021.\n\nThe park overlooks the National September 11 Memorial & Museum and has a connection to the Liberty Street Bridge. The St. Nicholas Church, destroyed in the September 11 attacks, is being rebuilt in the park, with a new design by Santiago Calatrava, who also designed the Transportation Hub. The park, located above Liberty Street, is just a little more than in area.\n\n\"The Sphere\", a large cast bronze sculpture by German artist Fritz Koenig, had stood in Austin J. Tobin Plaza between the World Trade Center towers in Manhattan. Recovered from the rubble after the September 11 attacks in 2001, intact but visibly damaged, \"The Sphere\" faced an uncertain future and was dismantled and stored. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (PANYNJ), which owns \"The Sphere\", considered placing the sculpture in Liberty Park, which will be located between the 90 West Street building and the World Trade Center Memorial site. Construction on Liberty Park did not start until 2013, so a location was needed to place \"The Sphere\" until Liberty Park was completed. , PANYNJ had not made an official final decision on where to place the sculpture once Battery Park construction commences, forcing the sculpture to move. Until Liberty Park opened, \"The Sphere\" was to go into storage.\n\nWhen Liberty Park opened in June 2016, the question had not been resolved. On July 22, 2016, the Port Authority voted to move the sculpture to Liberty Park, and in August 2017, PANYNJ relocated the sculpture to Liberty Park. On September 6, 2017, the Sphere was unveiled in its permanent home in Liberty Park, overlooking the World Trade Center site.\n\nThe \"America's Response Monument\", a life-and-a-half scale bronze statue commemorating the actions of U.S. Special Operations Forces in the first few weeks of the War in Afghanistan, was unveiled to the public during the Veteran's Day Parade in New York City on November 11, 2011. The statue was dedicated in a ceremony led by Vice President Joe Biden and Lieutenant-General John Mulholland, commander of U.S. Army Special Operations Command and formerly commander of Task Force Dagger during the initial days of the War in Afghanistan. Soldiers representing the United States Army Special Operations Command attended the dedication ceremony. \n\nThe inscription at base of the sculpture bears its name, \"America's Response Monument\", and the Latin subtitle \"De Oppresso Liber\". The subtitle, traditionally translated as \"to free the oppressed\", is the motto of the Green Berets, who inspired the monument. A piece of steel from the original World Trade Center is embedded in the base. It is the first public monument to honor United States special forces. \n\nThe $750,000 cost of statue was donated by hundreds of private citizens, including some survivors of the September 11 attacks. The statue was temporarily located in the West Street Lobby inside One World Financial Center in New York City opposite Ground Zero. On September 13, 2016, the statue was rededicated once again on an elevated space on the south side of Ground Zero within Liberty Park.\n\nOn July 23, 2008, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey reached a deal with the leaders of the St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church for the Port Authority to acquire the lot that the church had occupied, for $20 million, $10 million of which is coming from the Port Authority and the other $10 million of which is coming from JPMorgan Chase.\n\nThe Port Authority and the church announced a deal in July 2008 under which the Port Authority would grant land and up to $20 million to help rebuild it in a new location – in addition, the authority was willing to pay up to $40 million to construct a bomb-proof platform underneath. In March 2009, the Port Authority stated it quit talking with the church and canceled building St. Nicholas altogether. The Port Authority claimed that the church was asking for too much, and that they might delay the whole World Trade Center project. The Archdioceses says that they just wanted the church back, and a third of the building would be a memorial for 9/11, and a place where people of all faiths could pray and remember those who died in the attacks.\n\nArchitect Santiago Calatrava was awarded the task of designing the new St. Nicholas. His plans drew inspiration from the great Byzantine churches of Hagia Sophia and the Church of the Holy Savior in Chora, both in Istanbul. The church will be constructed in Liberty Park; the site for the new church is east of the original site at 155 Cedar Street. , construction of the new church was scheduled to begin in early 2014, and to end in late 2017. The new church will be created from steel and concrete but the exterior will be clad in stone. The interior design of the church is still being determined. The site for the new church is east of the original site at 155 Cedar Street. Construction of the new church began in early 2014.\n"}
{"id": "2983517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2983517", "title": "Library 2.0", "text": "Library 2.0\n\nLibrary 2.0 is a loosely defined model for a modernized form of library service that reflects a transition within the library world in the way that services are delivered to users. \nThe focus is on user-centered change and participation in the creation of content and community.\nThe concept of Library 2.0 borrows from that of Business 2.0 and Web 2.0 and follows some of the same underlying philosophies. This includes online services like the use of OPAC systems and an increased flow of information from the user back to the library.\n\nIn Library 2.0, library services are constantly updated and reevaluated to best serve library users. Library 2.0 also attempts to harness the library user in the design and implementation of library services by encouraging feedback and participation. Proponents of this concept, sometimes referred to as Radical Trust, expect that the Library 2.0 model for service will ultimately replace traditional, one-directional service offerings that have characterized libraries for centuries.\n\nThe term \"Library 2.0\" was coined by Michael Casey on his blog LibraryCrunch as a direct start off of the terms Business 2.0 and Web 2.0. Casey suggested that libraries, especially public libraries, are at a crossroads where many of the elements of Web 2.0 have applicable value within the library community, both in technology-driven services and in non-technology based services. In particular, he described the need for libraries to adopt a strategy for constant change while promoting a participatory role for library users.\n\nLibrary 2.0 made its conference debut at Internet Librarian 2005 in October, 2005, when Michael Stephens of Saint Joseph County Public Library addressed the idea in relation to the typical library website.\n\nA September 2006 article in \"Library Journal\" titled, \"Library 2.0: Service for the next-generation library,\" begins by expressing the benefit of Library 2.0 to library administrators and taxpayers as providing \"more efficient ways of delivering services to achieve greater returns on financial investments.\" The article continued by asserting that the much discussed Library 2.0 is important for librarians as it may radically change our customer service and interaction.\n\nWith Library 2.0, library services are frequently evaluated and updated to meet the changing needs of library users. Library 2.0 also calls for libraries to encourage user participation and feedback in the development and maintenance of library services. The active and empowered library user is a significant component of Library 2.0. With information and ideas flowing in both directions – from the library to the user and from the user to the library – library services have the ability to evolve and improve on a constant and rapid basis. The user is participant, co-creator, builder and consultant – whether the product is virtual or physical.\n\nAn advantage in pursuing digital services is that the library can target more people - including those who may not have previously used the library service.\n\nA concern that Library 2.0 is trying to address is that potential users turn to Google and Wikipedia because they are \"good enough\", and perceive libraries to be slow and irrelevant.\n\n\nIn 2009, Holmberg et al. identified 7 key principles for Library 2.0: \"interactivity, users, participation, libraries and library\nservices, web and web 2.0, social aspects, and technology and tools\", and offer the following definition for Library 2.0: \"Library 2.0 is a change in interaction between users and libraries in a new culture of participation catalysed by social web technologies.\"\n\nAlex Byrne argues that the use of Web 2.0 strategies in the library context changes the role of librarian into someone who can assist in supporting clients information literacy across the \"largely unknown informational universe\" rather than helping them navigate the library's own collection.\n\nSome concerns about Library 2.0 relate to access to technology, privacy and security. For example, Casey and Savastinuk suggest allowing patrons to tag or blog anonymously. In 2006, Steve Lawson, humanities liaison librarian, wrote a blog post entitled, \"A Library 2.0 skeptic's reading list\" that collected links to blogs which discuss these concerns. Lawson says \"I'm not anti-Library 2.0 ... I like to think of Library 2.0 as a continuing conversation about the future of libraries, and it makes sense to me to try to round up some voices that challenge Library 2.0 conventional wisdom.\"\n\nAnother concern is that the adoption of Web 2.0 technologies can allow users to spread hate speech and cyberbullying in the library system. It is suggested that librarians define hate speech in their user content policies and identify it when it occurs.\n\nWhen using social networking through Facebook in a Swedish public library, librarians were described as 'always at the beck and call of Facebook', and capable of losing the relationships they'd built with their clients over the site due to glitches in Facebook.\n\nLibrary 2.0 is a new way of providing library service through new Internet technologies, with emphasis on “user-centered” change and interaction. Like Web 2.0, a full-featured Library 2.0 OPAC gets better the more that users are involved in the process of interacting with the catalog and sharing content.\n\nLibrarians have been working to retool library catalogs in order to make them more useful for patrons to find, organize, and interact with information in a way that has infinite potential for user customization. These new types of catalogs are a shift from \"isolated information silos\" to \"interlinked computing platforms.\" In the past the information flow was mostly one way, from library to user. With new web tools information can be released to flow in every direction (library to user, user to library, library to library, and user to user).\n\nJessamyn West, on her librarian.net website, authored \"What We Want: An OPAC Manifesto,\" which broke down the needs of library staff, geeks, and users in their OPAC. These valuable suggestions inform librarians of the flexibility, customizability and plain language approach that is desired by users in their OPAC. Librarians should be aware of these issues so that planning for improvement can begin.\n\nNishat Kazi recommends that the clients interest area should be recorded when they join the library, and when they login to their account on the OPAC, new items which match their interests should be displayed to them. Kazi also recommends allowing clients to rank and review items in the OPAC, as well as giving other clients the opportunity to respond to these reviews. Key words can also be added by clients in addition to key words added by the librarian to facilitate searching.\n\nIn China a participatory library named Xiaotu was developed by Tsinghua University . Xiaotu is an artificial intelligence library that allows users to interact with it by talking or chatting through a mobile app or social network. It provides real-time virtual reference service combining Tsinghua University Library capabilities with social network and third-party resources. The system is composed by a self-learning function that receives updates from users as they find some missing or wrong information. Connected to the largest social network in China, it provides easy access and owns a book reading group accessed by Tsinghua University Students in China. Its knowledge base includes Wikipedia and its Chinese counterpart, content revised by professor of the university, frequent asked questions (FAQ) accumulated from university library and other third-party resources presented in the Chinese internet. Independent of the information quality concerns th of the information provided by this AI library, the concept of a “living” library teaching students in a user-friendly platform is operating, learning and teaching based of patterns learned or dictated.\n\nLibrary 2.0 has been a source of debate in the blogosphere. Some librarian bloggers have argued that these key principles are not new and have been part of the service philosophies of many library reformers since the 19th century. Others are calling for more concrete examples of how libraries can get to Library 2.0. Walt Crawford, for example, argues that Library 2.0 comprises a combination of tools and attitudes which are excellent ideas and not new to librarianship, a few business- and tool-focused attitudes which will not serve all users and user communities, and incorrectly places libraries as the appropriate source for all users to gather all information.\n\nProponents of Library 2.0, such as Stephen Abram, Michael Stephens, Paul Miller and others, have spoken to these criticisms, arguing that while individual pieces of Library 2.0 may not be entirely new, the convergence of these service goals and ideas with many new Web 2.0 technologies has led to a new generation of library service. This includes the use of online social networks by libraries.\n\nLibrary 4.0 has been proposed as including makerspaces, context-aware technology, open source, big data, cloud services, augmented reality, state-of-the-art displays.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3288078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3288078", "title": "Macrohistory", "text": "Macrohistory\n\nMacrohistory seeks out large, long-term trends in world history, searching for ultimate patterns through a comparison of proximate details. For example, a macro-historical study might examine Japanese feudalism and European feudalism in order to decide whether feudal structures are an inevitable outcome given certain conditions. Macro-historical studies often \"assume that macro-historical processes repeat themselves in explainable and understandable ways\".\n\nExamples of macro-historical analysis include Oswald Spengler's assertion that the lifespan of civilizations is limited and ultimately they decay, and Arnold J. Toynbee's historical synthesis in explaining the rise and fall of civilizations. The Battle of Ain Jalut is considered by many historians to be of great macro-historical importance, as it marked the high water point of Mongol conquests, and the first time they had ever been decisively defeated.\n\nAccording to economists Robert Solow, Brian Snowdon, and Jason Collins, Oded Galor's unified growth theory is another example of macro-historical analysis that has significantly contributed to the understanding of process of development over the entire course of human history and the role of deep-rooted factors in the transition from stagnation to growth and in the emergence of the vast inequality across the globe.\n\n"}
{"id": "99627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=99627", "title": "Mannheim", "text": "Mannheim\n\nMannheim (; Palatine German: or ) is a city in the southwestern part of Germany, the third-largest in the German state of Baden-Württemberg after Stuttgart and Karlsruhe with a 2015 population of approximately 305,000 inhabitants. The city is at the centre of the larger densely populated Rhine-Neckar Metropolitan Region which has a population of 2,400,000 and is Germany's eighth-largest metropolitan region.\n\nMannheim is located at the confluence of the Rhine and the Neckar in the northwestern corner of Baden-Württemberg. The Rhine separates Mannheim from the city of Ludwigshafen, just to the west of it in Rhineland-Palatinate, and the border of Baden-Württemberg with Hesse is just to the north. Mannheim is downstream along the Neckar from the city of Heidelberg.\n\nMannheim is unusual among German cities in that its streets and avenues are laid out in a grid pattern, leading to its nickname \"die Quadratestadt\" (\"The City of Squares\"). The eighteenth century Mannheim Palace, former home of the Prince-elector of the Palatinate, now houses the University of Mannheim.\n\nThe city is home to major corporations including Daimler, John Deere, Caterpillar, ABB, Fuchs Petrolub, IBM, Roche, Reckitt Benckiser, Unilever, Phoenix Group, Siemens, and several other well-known companies. In addition, Mannheim's SAP Arena is not only the home of the German ice hockey record champions the Adler Mannheim, but also the well-known handball team, the Rhein-Neckar Löwen. According to the Forbes magazine, Mannheim is known for its exceptional inventive power and was ranked 11th among the Top 15 of the most inventive cities worldwide. The New Economy Magazine elected Mannheim under the 20 cities that best represent the world of tomorrow emphasizing Mannheim's positive economic and innovative environment. Since 2014, Mannheim has been a member of the UNESCO Creative Cities Network and holds the title of \"UNESCO City of Music\". Mannheim is a Smart City; the city's electrical grid is installed with a Power-line communication network.\n\nThe city's tourism slogan is \"Leben. Im Quadrat.\" (Life. Squared.). The civic symbol of Mannheim is \"der Wasserturm\", a Romanesque water tower completed in 1886 that rises to above the highest point of the art nouveau area \"Friedrichsplatz\". Mannheim is the starting and finishing point of the Bertha Benz Memorial Route.\n\nThe name of the city was first recorded as \"Mannenheim\" in a legal transaction in 766, surviving in a twelfth-century copy in the \"Codex Laureshamensis\" from Lorsch Abbey. The name is interpreted as \"the home of Manno\", a short form of a Germanic name such as \"Hartmann\" or \"Hermann\". Mannheim remained a mere village throughout the Middle Ages.\n\nIn 1606, Frederick IV, Elector Palatine started building the fortress of Friedrichsburg and the adjacent city centre with its grid of streets and avenues. On January 24, 1607, Frederick IV gave Mannheim the status of a \"city\", whether it really was one by then or not.\n\nMannheim was mostly levelled during the Thirty Years War around 1622 by the forces of Johan Tilly. After being rebuilt, it was again severely damaged by the French Army in 1689 during the Nine Years' War.\n\nAfter the rebuilding of Mannheim that began in 1698, the capital of the Electorate of the Palatinate was moved from Heidelberg to Mannheim in 1720 when Karl III Philip, Elector Palatine began construction of Mannheim Palace and the Jesuit Church; they were completed in 1760.\n\nDuring the eighteenth century, Mannheim was the home of the \"Mannheim School\" of classical music composers. Mannheim was said to have one of the best court orchestras in Europe under the leadership of the conductor Carlo Grua. The royal court of the Palatinate left Mannheim in 1778. Two decades later, in 1802, Mannheim was removed from the Palatinate and given to the Grand Duchy of Baden.\n\nIn 1819, Norwich Duff wrote of Mannheim:\nIn 1819, August von Kotzebue was assassinated in Mannheim.\n\nThe climate crisis of 1816-17 caused famine and the death of many horses in Mannheim. That year Karl Drais invented the first bicycle.\n\nInfrastructure improvements included the establishment of Rhine Harbour in 1828 and construction of the first Baden railway, which opened from Mannheim to Heidelberg in 1840. Influenced by the economic rise of the middle class, another golden age of Mannheim gradually began. In the March Revolution of 1848, the city was a centre for political and revolutionary activity.\n\nIn 1865, Friedrich Engelhorn founded the \"Badische Anilin- und Soda-Fabrik\" (Baden Aniline and Soda Factory, BASF) in Mannheim, but the factory was constructed across the Rhine in Ludwigshafen because Mannheim residents feared air pollution from its operations. From this dye factory, BASF has developed into the largest chemical company in the world. After opening a workshop in Mannheim in 1871 and patenting engines from 1878, Karl Benz patented the first motor car in 1886. He was born in Mühlburg (now part of Karlsruhe).\n\nThe Schütte-Lanz company, founded by Karl Lanz and Johann Schütte in 1909, built 22 airships. The company's main competitor was the Zeppelin works.\n\nWhen World War I broke out in 1914, Mannheim's industrial plants played a key role in Germany's war economy. This contributed to the fact that, on 27 May 1915, Ludwigshafen was the world's first civilian settlement behind the battle lines to be bombed from the air. French aircraft attacked the BASF plants, thereby killing twelve people. The precedent was set for this attack by Germany's repeated air raids against British civilian populations throughout southeastern Britain during the first half of 1915.\n\nWhen Germany lost the war in 1918, according to the peace terms, the left bank of the Rhine was occupied by French troops. The French occupation lasted until 1930, and some of Ludwigshafen's most elegant houses were erected for the officers of the French garrison.\n\nAfter the First World War, the Heinrich Lanz Company built the Bulldog, an advanced tractor, powered by heavy oil. As a result of the invention of the pre-combustion chamber by Prosper L'Orange, Benz & Cie. developed the world's first compact diesel-powered car at its motor works in Mannheim in 1923. In 1922, the \"Grosskraftwerk Mannheim\" (Mannheim large power station) was opened. By 1930, the city, along with its sister city of Ludwigshafen, which had developed out of the old Mannheim Rheinschanze, had a population of 385,000.\n\nDuring the Third Reich, at least 2,262 of Mannheim's Jews were despatched for extermination. Air raids on Mannheim almost completely destroyed the city during the Second World War. Since Mannheim was an important industrial centre for Nazi Germany, Mannheim was heavily damaged during aerial bombing by the R.A.F. and the U.S. Air Force. In addition to bombing the important factories, the R.A.F. razed the city center of Mannheim with nighttime area bombing. Some sources state that the first deliberate \"terror bombing\" of the war occurred at Mannheim on December 16, 1940.\n\nThe Allied ground advance into Germany reached Mannheim in late March 1945, which was potentially well-defended by German forces, however, they suddenly abandoned the city and the U.S. 44th Infantry Division entered unopposed on 29 March 1945. There has been a large American military presence in the Mannheim area ever since (see \"United States military installations\" below).\n\nRebuilding of the city began laboriously. Mannheim Palace and the water tower (\"Wasserturm\") eventually were rebuilt and the National Theatre was replaced by a new building at a new location. At the old location there is a monument to Friedrich Schiller and the \"Zum Zwischen-Akt\" pub. The housing shortage led to the development of many new residential areas.\n\nIn 1964, the City Hospital (\"Städtische Krankenhaus\") became part of the Neckar Faculty of Heidelberg University for Clinical Medicine in Mannheim. In 1967, the University of Mannheim was established in the city.\n\nIn 1975, the Bundesgartenschau (Federal horticulture show) was celebrated in Luisen and Herzogenried parks. A number of pieces of infrastructure were developed for the show: the telecommunications tower and a second bridge across the Rhine were built, the pedestrian zone was established, the new Rosengarten conference centre was opened and the Aerobus was installed as a temporary transport system.\n\nA number of major projects were completed in the 1980s and 1990s: a planetarium, an extension to the art gallery, the new Reiß Museum, Stadthaus, a new May Market ground, synagogue, mosque, State Museum for Technology and Work, Carl-Benz stadium and the Fahrlach tunnel were opened.\n\nMannheim has lost many industrial jobs, although in the recent past the city was economically dominated by manufacturing. The city tried in the past to prevent the establishment of service providers by designating some locations as industrial areas. A prime example of the current trend is the construction of the Victoria Tower (Victoria-Turm) in 2001, one of the tallest buildings in the city, on railway land.\n\nMannheim celebrated its 400th anniversary with a series of cultural and other events throughout 2007. The 400th anniversary proper was in 2006, since Frederick IV, Elector Palatine laid the foundations of Mannheim citadel on 17 March 1606. In preparation for the anniversary, some urban activities were implemented, beginning in 2000: the building of the SAP Arena with access to the city's new eastern ring road, the rehabilitation of the pedestrian zone in Breite Straße, the arsenal and the palace, the complete transformation of the old fair ground, and the new Schafweide tram line. The concept of the anniversary of the city aimed at a diverse range of events without a dominant central event.\n\nThe following list shows significant groups of foreigners in the city of Mannheim by nationalities.\n\nSome important inventions were made in Mannheim.\n\nThe council has 48 seats and is elected by direct suffrage for five years. In the local elections in Baden-Württemberg, voters are allowed to take advantage of cumulative voting and vote splitting. Since the Second World War the SPD, except in the elections of 1999 and 2004, has received more votes than the CDU. The next municipal election will take place in 2019.\n\nThe outcome of the local elections of 25 May 2014 and the current members of the council is as follows:\n\nThe SPD, CDU, Greens, Mannheim List and AfD have official party status.\n\nThe mayor is the head of the city council and chairman of the council, being selected by direct suffrage for a term of eight years. The current mayor is Peter Kurz (SPD), who was elected during 2007 with 50.53 percent on a turnout of 36.64 percent in the first round.\n\nThe city leaders since 1810 are:\n\nThe National Theatre Mannheim was founded in 1779 and is the oldest \"Stage\" in Germany. In 1782 the premier of \"Die Räuber\", written by Friedrich Schiller, was shown.\n\nRecently, more smaller stages have opened, such as the Oststadt-Theater, the TIG7 (Theater im Quadrat G7), the Theater Oliv, the Freilichtbühne, the Theater31, the Theater ImPuls, the Theater Felina-Areal, the Mannheimer Puppenspiele, the Kleinkunstbühne Klapsmühl', Schatzkistl, and zeitraumexit.\n\nThe University of Mannheim is one of Germany's younger universities. Although founded in 1967, it has its origins in the 1763-established Palatine Academy of Sciences and the former Handelshochschule. Situated in Mannheim Palace, it is Germany's leading university in business and economics and attracts students from around the world. Described by \"Die Zeit\" magazine as the 'Harvard of Germany' it is seen as the alma mater of German businessmen and women.\n\nThe university town also houses one of the medical schools of Heidelberg University, the Hochschule Mannheim, a branch of the Duale Hochschule of the State of Baden-Württemberg and several musical and theatrical academies, including the Pop Academy Mannheim, the Musikhochschule and the Theaterakademie. These institutions draw a large and diverse student body.\n\nDependents of U.S. military personnel attended Mannheim Elementary School until it closed in June 2012. In the 1980s the school had 2,200 students.\n\nMannheim is located in Germany's warmest summer region, the \"Rhine shift\". In summer, temperatures sometimes rise up to and higher. The highest recorded temperature was on August 7, 2015. The daily lows during heat waves can be very high by north European standards (around ). In comparison to other regions of Germany, Mannheim has a higher humidity in summer which causes a higher heat index. Snow is rare, even in the cold months. Precipitation occurs mostly during afternoon thunderstorms during the warmer period (average days of thunderstorms in a year is 40–50). Climate in this area has mild differences between highs and lows, and there is adequate rainfall year-round. The Köppen Climate Classification subtype for this climate is \"\" (Marine West Coast Climate/Oceanic climate).\n\n\nThe successor to the Karl Benz automobile manufacturing companies begun in Mannheim, Daimler AG, has had a large presence in Mannheim. Today, diesel engines and buses are assembled there. The Swiss Hoffmann–La Roche Diagnostic group (formerly known as Boehringer Mannheim) has its division headquarters in Mannheim. Additionally, the city also hosts large factories and offices\nof ABB, Alstom, BASF (Ludwigshafen), Bilfinger Berger, Bombardier, Fuchs Petrolub AG, John Deere, Siemens, SCA, Südzucker, and other companies.\n\nA number of U.S. Army Europe installations were located in and near Mannheim during the Cold War. The following locations provided services to and housed the \"U.S. Army Garrison Mannheim\" and other units of the U.S. Army. The U.S. Army Garrison Mannheim was formally deactivated on 31 May 2011.\n\n\nThe following locations were part of the \"U.S. Army Garrison Heidelberg\" but were within the area of the city of Mannheim; They were vacated in 2010 and 2011:\n\nAll personnel of the U.S. Army military community left Mannheim by 2015, some of them moving to Wiesbaden. With the exception of four barracks, all other barracks formerly occupied by the U.S. military had been returned to the German state for conversion to civilian use in 2011.\n\nThe Mannheim/Ludwigshafen area is surrounded by a ring of motorways connecting it to Frankfurt in the north, Karlsruhe in the south, Saarbrücken in the west and Nuremberg in the east.\n\nMannheim Hauptbahnhof (central station) is at the end of the Mannheim-Stuttgart high-speed rail line and is the most important railway junction in the southwest of Germany, served by ICE high-speed train system with connections to Frankfurt am Main–Berlin, Karlsruhe–Basel, and Stuttgart–Munich. A new high speed line to Frankfurt also is planned to relieve the existing Mannheim–Frankfurt railway.\n\nMannheim Harbour is the second largest river port in Germany.\n\nAlthough Frankfurt International Airport is only to the north, at various times over the years there were daily passenger flights from Mannheim City Airport (IATA code MHG) to London, Dresden, Berlin, Hamburg, Munich, and Saarbrücken. Currently, scheduled commercial passenger flights serve the airports Berlin-Tegel and Hamburg.\n\nLocal public transport in Mannheim includes the RheinNeckar S-Bahn, eleven tram lines, and numerous bus lines operated by Rhein-Neckar-Verkehr (Rhine-Neckar transport) (RNV).\n\nThe RheinNeckar S-Bahn, established in 2003, connects most of the Rhine-Neckar area including lines into the Palatinate, Odenwald, and southern Hesse. All S-Bahn lines run through Mannheim Hauptbahnhof, except S5. Further S-Bahn stations are at present Mannheim-Rangierbahnhof, Mannheim-Seckenheim, and Mannheim-Friedrichsfeld-Süd.\n\nThe integrated Mannheim/Ludwigshafen tramway network also extends to Heidelberg. It is operated by RNV, a company wholly owned by the three cities mentioned and a couple of municipalities in the Palatinate. RNV is the result of a merger on 1 October 2009 between the region's five former municipal transportation companies. Interurban trams are operated by RNV on a triangular route between Mannheim, Heidelberg, and Weinheim that was originally established by the Upper Rhine Railway Company (\"Oberrheinische Eisenbahn\", OEG), and the company also operates interurban trams between Bad Dürkheim, Ludwigshafen, and Mannheim. In the 1970s a proposal to build a U-Bahn out of the Mannheim and Ludwigshafen tramways was begun, but only small sections were built due to lack of funds. The only underground station in Mannheim is the Haltestelle Dalbergstraße. U-Bahn planning now has stopped. All public transport is offered at uniform prices set by the Verkehrsverbund Rhein-Neckar (Rhine-Neckar transport union, VRN).\n\nThere are two nationally renowned football clubs in Mannheim, SV Waldhof Mannheim, who currently are playing in the fourth tier Regionalliga Südwest, but who have played in the top tier, the Bundesliga; and VfR Mannheim, winner of the German championship in 1949, now playing in the fifth tier Oberliga Baden-Württemberg.\n\nThe Adler Mannheim (formerly MERC, Mannheimer Eis- und Rollsport-Club) is an ice hockey team playing in the professional Deutsche Eishockey Liga, having won the championship a total of six times.\n\nThe city is home to the Mannheim Tornados, the oldest operational baseball and softball club in Germany. The Tornados play in the first division of the Baseball Bundesliga and have won the championship 11 times, more than any other club.\n\nIn 2003 the American football club MTG Rhein-Neckar Bandits was founded. The Bandits are playing in the first German Football League which is called GFL1. In the summer about 500 people watch each game.\n\nRhein-Neckar-Loewen (Lions) are a handball team (formerly SG Kronau-Oestringen) playing in the professional German Handball League.\n\nThe WWE visited Mannheim in 2008 and grossed more than half a million dollars with over 6,500 fans attending the event.\n\nUFC fighter Dennis Siver lives and trains in Mannheim.\n\nMannheim hosted the European Show Jumping Championships in 1997, and the FEI European Jumping Championships in 2007 14–19 August, in the MVV-riding stadium.\n\n2002 Hobby Horse Polo was invented in Mannheim, evoking the classical rivalry towards \"polite society\" in Heidelberg.\n\nThe center of the city uses an addressing system unique within Germany. Rather than street names and numbers, each block is given a code and a number is given to each building, i.e. C3, 17 is block C3, building 17. This practice dates back centuries, and is a result of the original use of the city center as a fort, with the fort's internal system being adopted when it became public streets. The street themselves are unnamed. The codes are laid out in a simple progressive pattern, i.e. C3 is between C2 and C4 in one direction and B3 and D3 in the other, but those unused to the system will often become lost. A street named Breite Straße goes through the middle of the blocks from south to north, with blocks A-K on the west side of the street and L-U on the east, with each row going 1 to at most 7 based on distance from this road. House numbers begin on the south corner nearest Breite Straße and go counterclockwise for A-K and Clockwise for L-U.\n\nThis causes major issues with most mapping software, as the databases they use are based on the standard street-number system, and thus aren't able to accommodate a completely different system for a small area. A variety of fixes have been tried, none with a high level of success. In particular, these systems have issues because an address on a block can be on any of up to 4 roads, so attempts to fix the issue by giving the roads false names within the database have often failed to give accurate addressing, though such can still be seen on some platforms, like Google Maps. Finding an address in this area thus generally requires resorting to asking directions or using one of the many posted public maps.\n\nMannheim is twinned with:\n\n\"See also: \"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2461973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2461973", "title": "Mikhail Shcherbatov", "text": "Mikhail Shcherbatov\n\nPrince Mikhailo Mikhailovich Shcherbatov (, July 22, 1733 – December 12, 1790) was a leading ideologue and exponent of the Russian Enlightenment, on the par with Mikhail Lomonosov and Nikolay Novikov. His view of human nature and social progress is kindred to Swift's pessimism. He was known as a statesman, historian, writer and philosopher, and was one of the most visible representatives of the nascent Russian conservatism during the second half of the 18th century.\n\nM. M. Shcherbatov received a good-formal education. He studied history, philosophy, literature and medicine. Until the end of his life he had a vast collection of 40,000 volumes in his home library. Like all educated people of that time he knew French, and in addition to that, he was also competent in German, Italian and a few other western languages. From 1767 onwards, Shcherbatov was in the public service and held responsible posts. He represented the Yaroslavl nobility at the Nakaz commission (1767), was a member of a private commission of the middle-class people, a member of the Board of Trade (1770), a president of the Chamber Council and a Senator (1779).\n\nIn 1768 he received the position of historiographer and was appointed a Chief Herald of the Senate. In his view the political ideal was to follow the British example of a constitutional monarchy with separation of powers. He found a certain analogy to this ideal in Pre-Petrian Russia when, in his opinion, autocracy was confined to the use of such aristocratic organ as the Council Boyars. Mikhail's personal view and attitude of Peter I of Russia or Peter the Great (who ruled Russia from 7 May 1682 until his death in 1725) in his writings was quite ambiguous. In one of his drafts \"An examination of defects and autocracy of Peter the Great\" (1782), he openly criticized Peter, arguing that what he did for the prosperity of Russia can be done by more humane means, resulting in smaller losses even though it might take a longer period of time. In Shcherbatov's opinion, without foreign borrowing and the autocracy of Peter the Great, significantly much more time would have been needed for the Russian Enlightenment and foreign policy opponents meanwhile could have captured the country. Yet, Shcherbatov was aware that, apart from the personal weaknesses, the roughness and cruelty of the autocrat were caused by the viciousness of the time. Peter was forced by the time to be a despot.\n\nScherbatov's father was a governor-general of Moscow and a Rurikid prince. His belonging to the oldest of Russian families may explain Scherbatov's lifelong interest in the national history. In a series of articles published in 1759-61 he defended serfdom and upheld ancient privileges of nobility which had been repealed by Peter the Great.\n\nWhen elected by the nobility of Yaroslavl to represent their interests at the Legislative Assembly of 1767, Shcherbatov virulently slammed the existing institutions of the Russian Empire. He caught the attention of the Empress and was appointed imperial historian in 1768 and president of a ministry in 1778. He worked in the Senate from 1779 to 1786.\n\nScherbatov's \"History of Russia from the Earliest Times\", of which seven volumes appeared between 1771 and 1791, is imbued with rationalistic ideals of the Age of Reason. He thought that inequality was inherent to human nature and illustrated this tenet in the first Russian utopia, entitled \"Journey to the Land of Ophyr\" (1783). Scherbatov's final and probably most lasting work was a scathing attack on the contemporary social customs in the treatise \"On the Corruption of Morals in Russia\", published in 1797.\n\nIn one of his most famous works \"On the corruption of morals in Russia\" Shcherbatov criticized the mass abuses committed by the authorities, such as bribery, embezzlement of public funds, servility, etc. There was also criticism of the methods of Peter the Great by which he promoted \"obscure people\" and in turn led to a state crisis. Yet, Shcherbatov tried to be unbiased and to show both the positive and negative sides of Peter's modernization. He wrote about changes made in Russia by Peter's reforms, drawing his attention not only to changes in political and military areas, but also in the field of culture, specifying that due to Europeanization, \"in the matter of personal and certain other matters, one can say we truly enjoyed remarkable success and moved forward with giant steps to correcting how we appear to others\".\n\nAfter the accession of Catherine II (who reigned as an Empress of Russia from June 28, 1762 until 1796), Shcherbatov participated in the Established Commission (1767–1771). He supported the elimination of cards on the Table of Ranks and the expansion of the rights of the Russian nobility. However, he was not a pure \"court\" ideologist, caring only about \"narrow interests\", as some Soviet researchers are inclined to think. In regard to attached serfs who belonged to merchants and worked in their factories, Shcherbatov considered it necessary to have them registered in their places but not allowing any more to be bought. As far as those serfs who were registered at the factories, he proposed to free them little by little, giving them freedom as a reward for good character and excellent knowledge of arts. Shcherbatov stood for the preservation of serfdom, arguing that the peasants, being uneducated, would not be able to properly use their freedom. He also believed that the problems of serfdom could be solved, not by destroying it, but gradually as a result of changes in attitude and treatment of farmers by landlords.\n\nShortly before his death, Shcherbatov created two works, which reflected his views on politics: \"Various Opinions about Government\" and \"General Thoughts about Legislation\". In those works, he distinguished four forms of government: monarchy, despotism (or autocracy), aristocracy and democracy and considered the monarchic government the most comprehensible. Shcherbatov saw the ideal monarch as the one who esteems himself father of the people, who does not reject legislation to establish autocracy, who does not divide his interests with the interests of the State and who is adept at choosing councillors among people, combining diligence to their sovereign with love for motherland and laws\". However, the majority of the governors, being subject to various \"passions\", could not meet the given characteristics. The aristocratic board was not comprehensible to Russia yet. Failure or unwillingness of people to suppress their excessive ambition, selfishness and lust for power \"generates divisions, parties, hatred and evil, which in essence were a result of those destructive passions\". The democratic governments \"gnaws at its own entrails dividing into various parties, which in various troubled times are tossed like a ship on a stormy sea, often escaping being sunk by the skill of the pilot, but even more often perishing, sometimes even right at the dock\".\n\nRejecting autocracy as a form of government, Scherbatov wrote \"yet there is torture, in which there are no other laws and regulations except for the insane self-will of the despot\". The Russian views on legislation were a result of the practical work of Shcherbatov in various public institutions. Since the establishment of the new laws required a thorough examination of the subject, Shcherbatov believed that \"laws should be composed by a few impartial people, reasonable, familiar, hardworking and devoted to state affairs \". Comparing laws in the various forms of government, Shcherbatov pointed out the advantage of the monarchy, which, having its solid established laws could provide for its citizens' security for their lives, property and tranquility.\n\nIdeas about the state system received development in Shcherbatov's utopian work \"A Journey to the Land of Ophyr\". His main idea was that laws should be based on moral principles and the citizens of the state should honour first virtue, then law, and after that – the king and the authorities. Their lives are dependent, in the first place, on their natural freedom, and after that to their civil responsibilities, which do not try to limit the freedom save only to impose certain duties in relation to the society. In this sense, he believed that people should honour and obey the laws; relationships inside society lie on humane principles and respect for each other and for the monarch, wherein a framework may be created for social balance and political peace within the boundaries of the country.\n\nIn that work, Shcherbatov developed his system for the prosperity and well-being of society, the basis of which lay in the idea that honor and respect for the monarch should not be rooted in any form of egoistic servility or hope of receiving a reward. He also supported the idea of a structure within society that is divided into several hierarchical classes, according to which the life of every citizen is regulated. At the top of the pyramid is the king, who should not be seen as almighty but as \"the first among equals\". Then come the landlords and merchants. The lowest is the class of peasants. Although they were not free, the legislation of the utopian state would require that their masters treat them humanely, provide for their needs, respect their work and refrain from harsh punishment.\n\nNowadays Scherbatov's ideas still attract the attention of Russian and foreign researchers of Russian conservatism movement and are fervently discussed in numerous books and articles.\n\n"}
{"id": "41313772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41313772", "title": "Mun Il-pyeong", "text": "Mun Il-pyeong\n\nMun Il-yeong (Hangeul: 문일평, Hanja: 文一平, Pen name: Ho Am (1888–1939) was a historian of the late Korean Joseon Dynasty, and an activist in the Korean independence movement during the period of Japanese rule. His research of Korean history in relation to government, culture, diplomacy, and education, helped to inspire nationalism and a deeper love of history in the Korean people.\n\nMun Il-pyeong was born in the Uiju district of the North Pyeongan Province in the year 1888, the only son of Mun Cheon-du. He spent the majority of his early years in his home town studying Chinese literature and philosophy, until in 1905 when he left to continue his studies in Japan with colleagues such as Yi Kwang-su.\n\nOn his return to Korea in 1908, Mun taught at several universities, including Daesung University in Pyongyang, Yangsil University in his hometown of Uiju, and Kyeongsin Academy in Seoul. During this period, Mun participated in a secret movement (신민회) established to improve the educational system, instill nationalism, and organize nationalist movements in Korea.\n\nIn 1911, Mun went to study in Japan's Waseda University, where he associated closely with An Jae-hong and Yun Hong-seob, and also with Kim Sung-soo and Jang Deok-soo who would later become founders of \"The Dong-a Ilbo\" newspaper.\n\nThe following year in 1912, Mun traveled to Shanghai China, where he resided in the French Concession area of the city. During his stay in Shanghai, Mun worked at a Chinese newspaper to which he contributed many lead articles, and also at several academies and companies in which he met and associated with Park Eun-sik, Shin Gyu-sik, and Shin Chaeho. Mun's opinions and views of the Korean people, the power of the press, revolutions, and Buddhism greatly evolved during this period.\n\nBack in Korea, Mun engaged himself in nationalism and Korean independence-promoting activities among the people in the Korean independence movement. Mun was involved in the March First Movement and was one of many contributors to the Declaration of Korean Independence. Eleven days after the public reading of the Declaration of Korean Independence during the March First Movement, Mun publicly read the Declaration of Korean Independence in a loud voice and wearing a durumagi. For this he was arrested and imprisoned for 8 months.\n\nAfter his release from prison in 1920, Mun taught history at Jung-dong, Jung-ang, Baejae, and Songdo schools, and contributed articles on history to the \"Chosun Ilbo\", \"Jung-wae Ilbo\", and \"Kaebyeok\", to increase national attention to history. Five years later in 1925 he again left to Japan to study history research, but quickly returned after less than a year.\n\nIn April 1933 he became an editor of the \"Chosun Ilbo\" and focused on the popularization of history. He tried to find the essence of Korean traditional culture and spirit from history, and he continued his efforts to make the Korean people interested and aware of the importance of their history until his death in 1939 at the age of 52.\n\nIn a time when the Japanese imperialists aimed to break the Koreans’ patriotism and ethnic spirit, Mun's research and efforts to spread Korean pride in their history had lasting effects on the people even after his death in the early 20th century. He helped lay the foundation of the study of Korean history by his efforts to give history meaning in addition to the study of fundamental historical fact. He also assisted in the work of organizing Korean historic records, and greatly helped in the popularization of history.\n\nHis writings dealt with various fields: nature, art, traditional activities, relics, etc. He methodically studied every field related to Korean history. Mun simplified the style of historical writings. He made the titles of history articles simple in that they aptly reflected the context, was objective, and his writings were short and easily understandable for the intention of making history more accessible to people.\n\nMun was especially interested in foreign policy and diplomacy of the pre-modern era. His study was not focused on finding the advantages of Korean history, but for self-examination and reflection. Like many other historians, he emphasized Joseon-sim (朝鮮心)\n\nIn 1995 the South Korean government conferred him posthumous honors, awarding him the Order of Merit for National Foundation.\n\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20131213115654/http://koreandb.nate.com/history/people/detail?sn=7461\n\nhttps://domin.co.kr/news/articleView.html?idxno=544934\n\nhttp://blog.daum.net/kdy0404/12027878\n\n"}
{"id": "19987304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19987304", "title": "Neil Christie", "text": "Neil Christie\n\nDr Neil Christie is a British archaeologist and historian, and a Professor in Archeology at the University of Leicester.\n\nPrior to joining the Archeology and Ancient History team at the University of Leicester in 1992, Dr Christie was both an undergraduate and doctoral student in Archeology at Newcastle upon Tyne; subsequently gaining a Rome Scholarship at the British School at Rome before being employed there to prepare a major excavation report (Santa Cornelia). Returning to Newcastle as Sir James Knott Fellow, he then held a British Academy Postdoctoral Research fellowship with the Institute of Archeology, Oxford. At Leicester he rose in the ranks to Senior Lecturer, Reader and now Professor.\n\nOutside of the University, he is Reviews Editor for the journal \"Medieval Archaeology\" and Hon. Secretary for the Medieval Settlement Research Group, of which he was a founding member in 1987, and Reviews Editor for their journal. \nHe also holds a position as a member of the Faculty for the British School at Rome.\n\nIn his own words..\n\"My principal research interests have focused on the history and archaeology of Italy and the Western Mediterranean between c. AD 300-1000, examining in particular the transition period from Roman to medieval and the evolution of settlement patterns. Central to this was my in-depth analysis of the Lombard tribe, whilst a major survey of the period (An Archeology of Italy, AD 300-850) was published in 2006. Core themes in this research include the evolution of towns and the role of defence. An additional research field relates to castle origins and growth, with Italy again the main zone of interest.\"\n\n\"Archaeological fieldwork forms an important component in my research profile: I directed the Cicolano Castles Project in central Italy (1991–94) centring on excavation and survey work on medieval castles and villages in the high Apennines; I co-directed the Sangro Valley Research Project (1995–2000), assessing evolving settlement patterns in eastern central Italy and excavating a medieval watchtower site; and I co-directed a project in eastern Spain (1994–96), examining post-medieval and early modern upland rural exploitation. My current project is centred on the study of the town and setting of Wallingford in south Oxfordshire and its transition from Saxon burh to Norman town. This includes geophysical and topographic survey, targeted excavations, and re-evaluations of previous watching briefs and unpublished excavations to build an image of urban emergence and development from c. AD 800-1300. A pilot project ran in 2001-4; major AHRC funding enables an extended three-year project (organised with Exeter and Oxford Universities) from 2008-10.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "35685258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35685258", "title": "Nils Ahnlund", "text": "Nils Ahnlund\n\nNils Ahnlund (23 August 1889 – 11 January 1957) was a Swedish historian. He was professor of history at the then-Stockholm University College 1928–1955 and became a member of the Swedish Academy in 1941. He was the father of physician Hans Olof Ahnlund, literary scientist Knut Ahnlund and the grandfather of journalist and writer Nathan Shachar.\n\nNils Ahnlund was born in Uppsala as the eldest son of theologian Olof Ahnlund and Hilda Svensson. In 1893 his father was appointed vicar in Umeå, and that is where Nils finished his secondary education. Thereafter he enrolled at Uppsala University, where he quickly became a disciple of Harald Hjärne. His research mainly focused on the time of Swedish Empire, and his dissertation was on Gustavus Adolphus' diplomatic relations.\n\nBetween 1926 and 1926 he worked at Svenska Dagbladet, where he had a promising career ahead of him. However, he chose the academic path and became the first professor of history at Stockholm University College in 1928. During World War II, he participated in the public debate, exhibiting nationalist sentiments.\n\nAhnlund was a popularizer of history and became widely known for his contributions in newspapers and radio, but in academia he was also successful and became, among other things, a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Letters, History and Antiquities as early as 1934 and the Swedish Academy. He was also made a member of several nordic academic societies as well as vice president of the Comité International des Sciences Historiques.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "34285312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34285312", "title": "Oshiguma", "text": "Oshiguma\n\nAn oshiguma is an impression of the kumadori (face make-up) of kabuki actors on a piece of cloth, usually silk or cotton, created as an artwork and memento.\n\nOshigumas are customarily made after the performance of a kabuki play, though not necessarily after every performance, and given as highly valued souvenirs of the event. A single oshiguma may have face-impressions from one or several actors, usually all from the same show, illustrating the make-up designs for major characters in the play. It may also include autographs, dates and additional inscriptions; sometimes other graphic elements are added to the design.\n\nThe same term can also be used to describe an artistic depiction of kabuki make-up created by other means, but intended to emulate the appearance of a face-print.\n\n"}
{"id": "727871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=727871", "title": "Paria River", "text": "Paria River\n\nThe Paria River is a tributary of the Colorado River, approximately long, in southern Utah and northern Arizona in the United States. It drains a rugged and arid region northwest of the Colorado, flowing through roadless slot canyons along part of its course.\n\nIt is formed in southern Utah, in southwestern Garfield County from several creeks that descend from the edge of the Paunsaugunt Plateau, meeting just north of Tropic. It flows SSE across Kane County and Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument. Along the Arizona state line, it descends through the Vermilion Cliffs in the Paria Canyon and onto the Paria Plateau. It joins the Colorado from the northwest approximately 5 mi (8 km) southwest of Page, Arizona and the Glen Canyon Dam. The lower 20 mi (32 km) of the river are within the Paria Canyon-Vermilion Cliffs Wilderness, which is administered by the Bureau of Land Management; a permit is required for any overnight visit. The Paria is essentially a large creek and is not navigable.\n\nA 2004 study estimated that the Tropic Ditch, a historic artificial irrigation canal that diverts water from the East Fork Sevier River, loses 1060 acre-feet per year to seepage, and half of that seepage (530 acre-feet per year) ends up in the Paria River, bringing with it 1829 tons of salt per year. To help restore the salinity of the Paria and Colorado Rivers to more natural levels, the Tropic and East Fork Irrigation Company has proposed replacing the last 5.5 miles of the ditch with a pipeline. The cost may be supplemented by a grant from the Bureau of Reclamation's Colorado River Basin Salinity Control Program.\n\nThe Paria is one of the most popular destinations for canyoneering in the region. Buckskin Gulch, a side canyon along the river in the narrows section, is considered to be one of the longest and deepest slot canyons in the United States. The Paria is also home to a number of important historical, geological and biological resources. Lee's Ferry and the adjoining settlement are located within the canyon just upstream of the confluence with the Colorado River, with a number of other abandoned settlements further north. The Paria and several nearby rivers and canyons also are the site of several well-preserved specimens of Native American petroglyphs, prehistoric drawings and symbols carved into stone. The Paria boasts a vibrant desert riparian habitat that is home to a number of sensitive and endangered species, and is also the location of Wrather Arch, the longest natural arch outside of Utah (although this claim may be superseded by Aloba Arch).\nAbout a mile south of the river and the ghost town of Pahreah is the Paria Movie Set which was the site for a number of western movies. Among the movies filmed at this site and the surrounding area were \"The Outlaw Josey Wales\" (1976), \"Sergeants 3\" (1962), \"Westward the Women\" (1951), and \"Buffalo Bill\" (1944). The old film set in the canyon was a popular attraction but was damaged in a flash flood in 1998. The buildings were dismantled and rebuilt in a nearby location by volunteers. In 2006 these new buildings were destroyed in a suspicious fire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56319049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56319049", "title": "Philippine ceramics", "text": "Philippine ceramics\n\nPhilippine ceramics refers to ceramic art and pottery designed or produced as a form of Philippine art. The tradition of Philippine ceramics dates back to the third millennium BCE. Pottery and ceramics were an essential part of the trade between the Philippines and its neighbours.\n\nTraditional pot-making in certain areas of the Philippines would use clay found near the Sibalom River. Molding the clay required the use of wooden paddles, and the clay had to be kept away from sunlight.\n\nNative Filipinos created pottery since 3500 years ago. They used these ceramic jars to hold the deceased.\n\nOther pottery used to hold remains of the deceased were decorated with anthropomorphic designs. These anthropomorphic earthenware pots date back to 5 BC. - 225 A.D and had pot covers shaped like human heads.\n\nFilipino pottery had other uses as well. During the Neolithic period of the Philippines, pottery was made for water vessels, plates, cups, and for many other uses.\n\nKalinga Pottery \n\nCeramic vessels of Kalinga are divided into three types: rice cooking (ittoyom), vegetable/meat cooking (oppaya), and water storage (immosso) pots. According to Skibo, the rice cooking pots are usually larger, thinner and have a smaller opening than vegetable/meat pots. On the other hand, water storage pots have an average and uniform size and a smaller neck size.\n\nExcept for water storage pots, which have a uniform size, the other two kinds can come in three different sizes, large, medium and small. Although this is true in some cases, another larger type of vegetable/meat pot and smaller water storage pot exists.\n\n• Manufacture of Kalinga potteries\n\nThe first step in the manufacture of pots is the acquisition of the starting material, clay. The clay is then pounded, added with enough amount of water, to reach the wanted flexibility, and placed in a rotating plate. Using the hand-modeling and coil-and-scrape techniques, the height, thickness and shape of the pot is established. After this, the rim is designed by placing a wet rag on top of it and then rotating it in the other direction. Furthermore, scraping of the walls can also be done if the walls produced are too thick.\n\nThe pot, after the modeling stage, is then dried for a short period of time before the base is shaped. Also, after additional heating, small amounts of clay are added inside and outside the clay to maintain the evenness of the surface. A polishing step can also be done through the use of a polishing stone. In some cases, pots are also painted with red hematite paint for some stylized design.\n\nPottery Functions \n\nPots are ceramic vessels that are made by molding clay into its wanted shape and then leaving it in an environment with an elevated temperature thereby making it solid and sturdy. It is widely recognized as one of better tools that humans invented since it managed to store the surplus of food Neolithic humans gathered.\n\nIn the book Pottery Function: A Use-Alteration Perspective, the author, James Skibo, reasoned out why the use of pots is far more advantageous than baskets and other organic containers. He said that since potteries are commonly made in clay, heat has little to none effect on the container, and its contents, and that it protects the food from moisture and pests. Furthermore, its range of storable contents is far wider than baskets and animal skins since it can store both liquid and dry goods.\n\nAlso, Rice, in his book Pottery Analysis, classified ceramic vessels into 17 categories depending on various factors that concern the use and production of the tool. One of these is the content wherein he further divided a type of pot into four depending on the state (liquid or solid) and temperature (hot or cold) of the food inside it. He also said that a ceramic has three main uses. These three are storage, processing, and transfer.\n\nBased from these three uses that Rice gave, Skibo further characterized the usage of ceramic vessels by dividing the tool’s function into two, (1) intended use and (2) actual use.\n\nIntended use, as the name implies, is how the tool’s supposed to be used. This is the basis of the manufacture of the ceramic vessel since the form follows the function. On the other hand, actual use is how the tool was used. This sometimes disregards the pot’s form as long it can do a specific \nfunction.\n\nKalinga Pottery and its Uses \n\nIn Kalinga, ceramic vessels can be used for two situations: daily life use and ceremonial use. \nDaily life uses include the making of rice from the pots and the transfer of water from nearby water bodies to their homes.\n\n• Determining actual function of Kalinga pots\n\nAs said, a pottery sometimes has a different actual use than intended use. This is the reason why when archaeologists study the function of a pottery, they tend to focus on how the tool was actually used. They do this by studying the alterations that the pottery has. These alterations, accretion and attrition, are commonly the abrasions and scratches on the vessel. In Skibo’s study of Kalinga potteries functions, he relied on three main tests, namely (1) dissolved residue, (2) surface attrition and (3) carbon deposition. \n\nIron Age pottery \n\nThere are three major complexes in Philippine Iron Age according to Solheim, Kalanay, Novaliches and Bau pottery complexes. Kalanay pottery complex pertains to Beyer’s Early Iron Age pottery of the Visayan Islands found in Negros and Mindoro; novaliches pottery complex to Beyer’s Early Iron Age pottery from Rizal province. Bau pottery, on the other hand, does not fit into the two previous complexes and could correspond instead to the Late Iron Age pottery.\n\nKalanay Pottery Complex \n\nThe type site of the Kalanay pottery complex is the Kalanay Cave found in Masbate. From this site, the pottery is further subdivided into pottery types Kalanay and Bagupantao.\n\nSpecific varieties of decoration are as follows:\n\n\nKalanay complex pottery can be divided into 16 groups according to Solheim.\n\n\nBau Pottery Complex \n\nIt has less variation in both form and decoration compared to the Kalanay pottery complex.\n\nSpecific varieties of decoration are as follows:\n\n\nIn terms of forms:\n\n\nNovaliches Pottery Complex \n\nMost of Novaliches pottery can be distinguished from Bau pottery and Kalanay pottery. While it shares form and decoration with Kalanay pottery, it contains more variability compared to Bau pottery. According to Solheim (2002), “it is the most sophisticated pottery that has yet been found in the Philippines”\n\nNovaliches pottery can be diagnosed by its form being a shallow bowl with a high right-foot. The shallow bowl is generally plain but the feet are highly decorated. Majority of Novaliches pottery were well polished. The form is so symmetrical that it looks as if it was made in a potter wheel, however, examinations showed that it wasn’t.\n\nSpecific varieties of decoration are as follows:\n\n\nVessel forms are as follows:\n\n\nKalanay Cave Site \n\nThe Kalanay cave site is a small burial cave. It is located at the northwest coast of Masbate.\n\n• Kalanay Pottery\n\n• Kalanay Incised\n\n\n• Kalanay slipped\n\n\nBagupantao Pottery \n• Bagupantao Plain\n\n• Bagupantao Impressed \n\n• Bagupantao Painted\n\n• Extraneous Pottery - Three vessels that did not belong to the Bagupantao and Kalanay style were also found.\n\nFirst pot\n\n\nSecond pot\n\n\nThird pot\n\n\nIn Japan, pottery from Luzon became especially esteemed and was used in Japanese tea ceremony as \"shimamono\".\n\n"}
{"id": "38563314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38563314", "title": "Primitive communism", "text": "Primitive communism\n\nPrimitive communism is a concept originating from Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels who argued that hunter-gatherer societies were traditionally based on egalitarian social relations and common ownership. A primary inspiration for both Marx and Engels were Lewis Henry Morgan's descriptions of \"communism in living\" as practised by the Iroquois Nation of North America. In Marx's model of socioeconomic structures, societies with primitive communism had no hierarchical social class structures or capital accumulation.\n\nEngels offered the first detailed theorization of primitive communism in 1884, with publication of \"The Origin of the Family, Private Property, and the State\". Marx and Engels used the term more broadly than Marxists did later, and applied it not only to hunter-gatherers but also to some subsistence agriculture communities. There is also no agreement among later scholars, including Marxists, on the historical extent, or longevity, of primitive communism.\n\nMarx and Engels also noted how capitalist accumulation latched itself onto social organizations of \"primitive communism\". For instance, in private correspondence the same year that \"The Origin of the Family\" was published, Engels attacked European colonialism, describing the Dutch regime in Java directly organizing agricultural production and profiting from it, \"on the basis of the old communistic village communities\". He added that cases like the Dutch East Indies, British India and the Russian Empire showed \"how today primitive communism furnishes ... the finest and broadest basis of exploitation\".\n\nIn a primitive communist society, all able bodied persons would have engaged in obtaining food, and everyone would share in what was produced by hunting and gathering. There would be no private property, which is distinguished from personal property such as articles of clothing and similar personal items, because primitive society produced no surplus; what was produced was quickly consumed. The few things that existed for any length of time (tools, housing) were held communally, in Engels' view in association with matrilocal residence and matrilineal descent. There would have been no state.\n\nDomestication of animals and plants following the Neolithic Revolution through herding and agriculture was seen as the turning point from primitive communism to class society as it was followed by private ownership and slavery, with the inequality that they entailed. In addition, parts of the population specialized in different activities, such as manufacturing, culture, philosophy, and science which is said to lead to the development of social classes.\nEgalitarian and communist-like hunter gatherer societies have been studied and described by many well-known social anthropologists including James Woodburn, Richard Lee, Alan Barnard and, more recently, Jerome Lewis. Anthropologists such as Christopher Boehm, Chris Knight and Jerome Lewis offer theoretical accounts to explain how communistic, assertively egalitarian social arrangements might have emerged in the prehistoric past. Despite differences in emphasis, these and other anthropologists follow Engels in arguing that evolutionary change—resistance to primate-style sexual and political dominance—culminated eventually in a revolutionary transition. Richard Borshay Lee criticizes the mainstream and dominant culture's long-time bias against the possible existence of primitive communism, deriding \"Bourgeois ideology [that] would have us believe that primitive communism doesn't exist. In popular consciousness it is lumped with romanticism, exoticism: the noble savage.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25595423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25595423", "title": "Robert P. Crease", "text": "Robert P. Crease\n\nRobert P. Crease (; born 22 October 1953 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania) is a philosopher and historian of science. \n\nCrease is co-editor of the scholarly journal \"Physics in Perspective\" and writes a monthly column, \"Critical Point\", for the international physics magazine \"Physics World\". \nHe is Chairman of the \"Department of Philosophy\" at Stony Brook University, where he has been a professor since 1987. In philosophy his interests lie in performance theory, expertise, and trust. In history of science his interest focuses on the history of Brookhaven National Laboratory, one of the first three U.S. national laboratories; he is co-founder of the Laboratory History conferences which have been held bi-annually since 1999. In 2007 he was elected a Fellow of the American Physical Society (APS) in the United States, and the Institute of Physics (IOP) in London.\n\nHe has written, co-written, translated, or edited over a dozen books. His articles have appeared in \"the Atlantic\", the \"New York Times\", the \"Wall Street Journal\", and other places.\n\nRobert P. Crease began to work on the history of Brookhaven National Laboratory shortly after arriving at Stony Brook in 1987. Brookhaven, established in 1947 and the site of several Nobel-prizewinning work, was among the first three U.S. National Laboratories. Due to its scientific ambitions and geographical location (not far from New York City), Brookhaven has experienced the tensions and conflicts affecting U.S. science-society relations “writ large”. These tensions and conflicts affect the management of science, science policy, the construction of large scientific facilities, and environmental concerns and community trust. Crease has written about the history of Brookhaven’s first quarter-century: \"Making Physics: A Biography of Brookhaven National Laboratory\" (University of Chicago Press, 1999). He is currently working on a sequel.\n\nHis articles about Brookhaven include:\n\"Technology: A Journal of Science Serving Legislative, Regulatory, and Judicial Systems, V 6 - (1999)\", \"pp. 495–500\".\n\nIn performance theory Crease treats performance not as merely a praxis – an application of a skill, technique, or practice that simply produces what it does – but a poiesis; a bringing forth of a phenomenon, something with its own identity in the world, able to appear in different ways in different circumstances, but exhibiting some lawlike integrity. Works of the performing arts are clearly of this sort – but so are scientific experiments. An experiment is not something automatic, but must be planned, executed, and witnessed – and its result sometimes leads the planners to have to alter an experiment so that what appears in it can be seen more clearly.\n\nCrease treats performance as not simply a metaphor that is extended merely suggestively from the arts to the sciences, but as something that happens alike in artistic and scientific activity. Treating experiments as performances in the service of inquiry, however, leads us to understand better several features of experiments, such as why they can “give us back” more information than we put into them, causing us to reshape the theories that led us to create them.\n\nRelevant publications include: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7804831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7804831", "title": "Robin Blackburn", "text": "Robin Blackburn\n\nRobin Blackburn (born 1940) is a British historian, a former editor of \"New Left Review\" (1981-99), an author of essays on the collapse of Soviet Communism, on the \"credit crunch\" of 2008, and of books on the history of slavery and on social policy. His most celebrated works, \"American Crucible: Slavery, Emancipation and Human Rights\" (2011), \"The Making of New World Slavery: from the Baroque to the Modern, 1492-1800\" (1997) and \"The Overthrow of Colonial Slavery, 1776-1848\" (1988), offer an account of the rise and fall of colonial slavery in the Americas, contributing to the emerging field of \"Atlantic history\". He has also published histories of Social Security, and critiques of the \"financialisation of everyday life\" and of the privatization of pension provision. \n\nBlackburn was educated at Oxford and the LSE. Between 2001 and 2010 he was Distinguished Visiting Professor of Historical Studies at The New School in New York City. He is currently Professor of Sociology and Leverhulme research fellow at Essex University. He has been a regular contributor to \"New Left Review\" since 1962.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56730351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56730351", "title": "Ronna Burger", "text": "Ronna Burger\n\nRonna C. Burger (born December 5, 1947) is an American philosopher and Professor of Philosophy, Catherine & Henry J. Gaisman Chair, and Sizeler Professor of Jewish Studies at Tulane University. \n\nShe received her PhD in Philosophy from the New School for Social Research Graduate Faculty and has been teaching at Tulane since 1980. Her research has been supported by the Andrew W. Mellon Foundation, the National Endowment for the Humanities, Earhart Foundation, Alexander von Humboldt Foundation and Carl Friedrich von Siemens Foundation. She is the author of books and articles on Plato and Aristotle, and her graduate seminars on those thinkers have often led to dissertations in ancient philosophy. In recent years she has extended her studies to Maimonides and the Hebrew Bible, writing essays, teaching courses, and lecturing on numerous college campuses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11431102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11431102", "title": "Simon Kaukhchishvili", "text": "Simon Kaukhchishvili\n\nSimon Kaukhchishvili () (October 1, 1895, Kutaisi – May 11, 1981, Tbilisi) was a Georgian historian and philologist known for his critical editions of old Georgian chronicles; Doctor of Historical Sciences (1927), Professor (1930), Academician of the Georgian National Academy of Sciences (1968).\n\nHe was born to a Georgian Catholic family in Kutaisi, western Georgia (then part of Imperial Russia). In 1917, he graduated from the St. Petersburg University and returned to Georgia where he was assigned to the recently established Tbilisi State University where he attained to the title of Professor in 1930 and chaired the departments of the Byzantine Studies (1927–38) and of the Classical Philology (1940-1954). Since 1960 until his death, he headed the Department of the Byzantine Studies at the Institute for Oriental Studies in Tbilisi. Under Joseph Stalin, he was persecuted by the Soviet authorities, being sacked twice, in 1938 and 1953, but survived the Great Purge.\n\nHaving left a diverse literary and scholarly legacy and commonly regarded as the founder of the Byzantine studies in Georgia, his crowning achievements are the critical editions of the Georgian Chronicles (\"Kartlis Tskhovreba\") and Prince Vakhushti’s historical-geographical treatise. He also translated and critically edited a collection of Byzantine sources on Georgia and Georgians published as \"Georgica\" in eight volumes from 1934 to 1970.\n"}
{"id": "3983329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3983329", "title": "Tatiana Proskouriakoff", "text": "Tatiana Proskouriakoff\n\nTat’yana Avenirovna Proskuriakova () ( – August 30, 1985) was a Russian-American Mayanist scholar and archaeologist who contributed significantly to the deciphering of Maya hieroglyphs, the writing system of the pre-Columbian Maya civilization of Mesoamerica.\n\nShe was born in Tomsk, in the Tomsk Governorate of the Russian Empire, to a chemist and his physician wife. The family travelled to the United States in 1915, her father being asked by Tsar Nicholas II to oversee the production of munitions for World War I. The Russian Revolution forced the family to remain permanently. She was to visit Russia only once after that, to meet the Mayanist Yuri Knorozov.\n\nShe was devoted to a career in interpreting art, architecture, and hieroglyphics. She could read proficiently at age 3. She had a talent for drawing and received lessons in art and watercolor.\n\nThe family lived for a while in Ohio, then moved to the Philadelphia area, settling down in Lansdowne, Pennsylvania. Proskouriakoff graduated valedictorian of her class and was the editor of the school yearbook.\nIn 1926, Tatiana enrolled at the Pennsylvania State College School of Architecture and graduated the only female in her class in 1930. Initially educated as an architect, she later went on to work for Linton Satterthwaite and for the University of Pennsylvania Museum at the Maya site of Piedras Negras in 1936–37. The Piedras Negras site lies between Mexico and Guatemala in the Usumacinta region. Specializing in architecture, Tatiana's first assignment at Piedras Negras was to illustrate the architectural ruins of the site. These initial travels would be the start of her life's work, as she found a passion for studying the ancient Maya. Upon her return to Philadelphia, she made a reconstruction drawing of the Piedras Negras acropolis which caught the attention of Silvanus Morley. Morley realized the young architect's remarkable ability to visualize a ruined structure as it once stood and render it with artistic precision. This would later lead to Tatiana's collaboration with Morley.\n\nWhile enrolled in graduate studies at the University of Pennsylvania, Proskouriakoff prepared archeological illustrations as a volunteer at the University Museum. Through her work with the Museum’s Assistant Curator of the American Section, Linton Satterthwaite, Proskouriakoff received an invitation in 1936 to join the Museum’s excavation work at the Maya site of Piedras Negras.\n\nAlthough Proskouriakoff never received a degree in the field of Maya studies, her dedication and ability for it led to her receiving positions at the Carnegie Institution in Washington D.C., then later at Harvard University. Her position at Carnegie was procured when Sylvanus Morley saw the panoramic reconstruction on a visit to the Museum; he was impressed, and prevailed upon her to make more for the Carnegie Institution of Washington. Unable to get the institution to hire her, he raised funds to enable Proskouriakoff to travel to Copán and Yucatán, which she did in 1939. Returning after she completed the drawings, she was given the post of a research associate at the Institution in the early 1940s.\n\nShe soon became involved in Maya hieroglyphs and made significant contributions to the understanding of Mayan written language. For example, her 1942 scholarly analysis of the hieroglyphics at the Takalik Abaj ruins in Guatemala establish that the site was in part Maya, settling a debate at that time. Her greatest contribution was considered the breakthrough for Maya hieroglyphic decipherment in the late 1950s and early 1960s. Utilizing the theories of Yuri Knorozov, she discovered that the writing on the monumental stela and other buildings was actually historical, dealing with the birth, accession, and death dates for the Maya rulers. Analyzing the pattern of dates and hieroglyphs, she was able to demonstrate a sequence of seven rulers who ruled over a span of two hundred years. Knowing the context of the inscriptions, Maya epigraphers were then able to decipher the hieroglyphs.\n\nShe became honorary curator, Maya art, of the Peabody Museum in 1958. \nTatiana Proskouriakoff died in Cambridge, Massachusetts, on August 30, 1985. She was 76 years old. On Easter Sunday 1998, after waiting more than a decade for political tensions to ease along the Usumacinta River, friend and colleague David Stuart carried Tatiana’s ashes to Piedras Negras, where they were interred at the summit of the Acropolis, the group of structures in Tania's first and perhaps most famous reconstruction drawing, the same one that launched her career.\n\n\nProskouriakoff's publications include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1857621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857621", "title": "The Good War", "text": "The Good War\n\n\"The Good War\": An Oral History of World War II (1984) is an oral history of World War II compiled by Studs Terkel. The work received the 1985 Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction.\n\n\"The Good War\" consists of a series of interviews with various men and women from across the globe who directly experienced the events leading up to, including, and following the Second World War.\n\nThe book's chapters and subchapters, with the names and topics of the subjects involved, are as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"The Good War\" met with positive reviews upon its publication in the fall of 1984. Loudon Wainwright, writing for \"The New York Times\", stated in a review published on October 7, 1984, \"Ten, 20, 30 years from now the best witnesses to World War II will be largely gone. But Presidents honoring them will surely have access to a copy of Studs Terkel's most recent exercise in memory harvesting, \"The Good War.\" It is hard to see how any reader now or then can fail to benefit from its 600 pages.\" Gaddis Smith, in a capsule review in the journal \"Foreign Affairs\", claimed, \"This book sustains Studs Terkel's reputation as the nation's foremost practitioner of the difficult (although seemingly simple) art of oral history.\" Kirkus Reviews assessment of the book, dated October 11, 1984, included the following: \"In World War II memories, Terkel has found a great, untold story--with fore-shadowings of Vietnam and aftershocks of atomic warfare.\"\n\nIn 1985, \"The Good War: An Oral History of World War Two\" won the Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction.\n\nMax Brooks has said that \"The Good War\" inspired him to write his novel \"World War Z\". Brooks stated: \"It's an oral history of World War II I read when I was a teenager, and it's sat with me ever since. When I sat down to write \"World War Z\", I wanted it to be in the vein of an oral history.\"\n"}
{"id": "982691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=982691", "title": "Uyaquq", "text": "Uyaquq\n\nUyaquq (also Uyaquk or Uyakoq; sometimes referred to in English as Helper Neck) (ca. 1860–1924) was a member of the Yupik native American group who became a Helper in the Moravian Church, noted for his linguistic genius. He went from being an illiterate adult to inventing a series of writing systems for his native language and then producing translations of the Bible and other religious works in a period of five years.\n\nUyaquq was born into a family of shamans in the lower Kuskokwim River valley of central Alaska in the mid-1860s. Even by the standards of the day, Uyaquk was a small man. He became a shaman in early adulthood, but converted to Christianity after his father converted. Although his father became a Russian Orthodox, Uyaquk became a leader and missionary in the Alaskan Moravian Church. His name means \"Neck\" in English and he was called that by some English speakers.\n\nAs a missionary, Uyaquq is said to have converted whole villages of Yupik in the lower Kuskokwim River valley to Christianity. He is said to have had a gentle personality and have been a very erudite speaker.\n\nUyaquq was fascinated by the idea that the English-speaking Moravians could quote a passage of scripture several times using exactly the same words each time. He discovered that they accomplished this by reading from a written text. Uyaquk became fascinated with the idea of writing and, according to his descendants, received the idea for the first version of the script he used to write his dialect, Yugtun, in a dream.\n\nReverend John Hinz, a Moravian missionary in Alaska, and an accomplished linguist, was astonished upon hearing of Uyaquq's invention. Hinz took Uyaquq to the Bethel mission house so that he could continue his linguistic work. Uyaquq is said to have written constantly during the trip, writing as many stories from the Bible as he could in the new script without stopping to sleep. Hinz and the Kilbucks aided Uyaquq by telling him scriptures, but Uyaquq refused to learn to read or write English, as he thought that English literacy would make him lose his identity as a Yupik.\n\nIn the next five years, Uyaquq's Yugtun script evolved from its original form of pictographs to a syllabary. This evolution began when Uyaquq decided that his hieroglyphics were a good memory aid but they did not represent passages with enough accuracy that they could be reproduced verbatim time after time. Uyaquq identified the concept of a syllable and his script evolved in five stages until he had created a symbol for each syllable in the language. Each of the five steps was documented in several notebooks kept by Uyaquq. He taught his writing system to several of his missionary helpers and they used it in their church work.\n\nAlthough the system adopted by most people for writing Yupik was the Roman-based script of Reverend Hinz, and, in about 1970, the University of Alaska system, Uyaquq's system has been studied because it may represent the same process of evolution from illiteracy to proto-writing to syllabary taken by many ancient written languages, like Chinese and Egyptian, but compressed into a period of five years. Uyaquq's notebooks and the writings of those who watched him at work have been the subject of research, beginning with Dr. Alfred Schmitt in the 1930s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2669290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2669290", "title": "Wiebe Bijker", "text": "Wiebe Bijker\n\nWiebe E. Bijker (born 19 March 1951, Delft) is a Dutch professor Emeritus, former chair of the Department of Social Science and Technology at Maastricht University in the Netherlands.\n\nBijker's father was an engineer involved in implementing the Delta Plan after a disastrous dike breach in the Netherlands in 1953 when young Bijker was two years old and later became deputy director of the Delft Hydraulics Laboratory. Presumably, the unique fact of parts of the Netherlands being below sea level, the well-known concerns in innovation surrounding this condition for centuries, and his father's involvement all contributed to the younger Bijker's interest in technology studies.\n\nAfter finishing Gymnasium in Emmeloord (1969), the younger Bijker received his BSc degree in philosophy from the University of Amsterdam (1974), his engineer's degree in physical engineering from the Delft University of Technology (1976), and his PhD degree from the University of Twente in 1990.\n\nBijker was an assistant and associate professor of philosophy from 1987 at the Maastricht University before becoming full professor of technology and society in 1994. Bijker's fields of research include social and historical studies of science, technology and society; theories of technology development; methodology of science, technology and society studies; democratisation of technological culture; science and technology policies; ICT, multimedia and the social-cultural dimensions of the information society; gender and technology; and meta studies of architecture, planning, and civil engineering. With Trevor Pinch he is considered as one of the main adherents of the Social Construction of Technology-approach. However, Bijker received criticism regarding his Dutch MFS-II-evaluation of 8,000 pages where he used a one-sided methodology of research with peer reviews.\n\nOn 12 May 2017 Wiebe Bijker became emeritus professor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3609652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3609652", "title": "Xavier Guichard", "text": "Xavier Guichard\n\nXavier Guichard (1870–1947) was a French Director of Police, archaeologist and writer.\n\nHis 1936 book \"Eleusis Alesia: Enquête sur les origines de la civilisation européenne\" is an early example of speculative thinking concerning Earth mysteries, based on his observations of apparent alignments between Alesia-like place names on a map of France. His theories are analogous to those of his near-contemporary in the United Kingdom, Alfred Watkins, concerning Ley lines.\n\nXavier Guichard appears as a character in the novels of Georges Simenon, where he is the superior of the fictional detective Jules Maigret.\n\n"}
{"id": "9874808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9874808", "title": "Yorkshire Stingo", "text": "Yorkshire Stingo\n\nThe Yorkshire Stingo was a public house in Marylebone in the 18th and 19th centuries, and served as a significant landmark just outside central London.\n\nLocated on the south side of the Marylebone Road, it was a rural location when first built, before the construction of the New Road. An admittance charge was made, redeemable with the waiters, as a method of preventing those with no money from enjoying the facilities. \n\nIts name comes from a fashionable slang word of the 18th century for strong or old ale. The name possibly comes from the sharp, or \"stinging\" flavour of a well-matured beer.\n\nIn 1786, the Committee for the Relief of the Black Poor used it as one of the centres for distributing alms. A bowling green and pleasure gardens were added in the 18th century.\n\nIn 1829, it became one of the first terminuses for London buses. In 1836, an early music hall for vaudeville and burlesque, called the Apollo Saloon, was added, but by 1848 the gardens were closed. The public house was finally closed in 1964. The site has since been used for the County Court and a public baths.\n\nDuring 1790 the Yorkshire Stingo was the temporary home of the second cast iron bridge ever built. (The first was The Iron Bridge.) This was designed by Thomas Paine, better known as the author of the revolutionary best-seller \"Rights of Man\". Paine had endeavoured to interest the authorities in Philadelphia and Paris in his design. He had gained a patent for this in 1788 and Walkers, who had an ironworks in Sheffield, agreed to construct it. The original design of – to span the Schuylkill River, Philadelphia – had been scaled down to . Paine discussed the bridge in correspondence with Thomas Jefferson, Sir Joseph Banks, George Washington and Sir George Staunton, and entertained hopes that it might be the model for an iron bridge across the Thames as well as the Seine. Paine supervised both the work at the Walker factory, and the erection of the bridge in the grounds of the Yorkshire Stingo. It weighed three tons and could bear a weight of six. Peter Whiteside, a Philadelphian merchant, was backing the project, but found himself in financial difficulties and asked Paine to return the money he had lent; in the end, the project had to be abandoned. Parts of it were then used in a bridge over the River Wear in Sunderland. William Yates, who had acted as Paine's foreman, went on to work on the Wear bridge and then Southwark Bridge, built by John Rennie. Paine later quipped that \"the French revolution, and Mr Burke's attacks upon it, drew me off any pontifical works\".\n"}
{"id": "49972274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49972274", "title": "Étienne de Molinier", "text": "Étienne de Molinier\n\nÉtienne de Molinier (1580-1650) was a French Christian theologian and thomist. He argued that painting was a metaphor for God's creation.\n\n"}
