{"id": "1197343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1197343", "title": "2000s energy crisis", "text": "2000s energy crisis\n\nFrom the mid-1980s to September 2003, the inflation-adjusted price of a barrel of crude oil on NYMEX was generally under US$25/barrel. During 2003, the price rose above $30, reached $60 by 11 August 2005, and peaked at $147.30 in July 2008. Commentators attributed these price increases to many factors, including Middle East tension, soaring demand from China, the falling value of the U.S. dollar, reports showing a decline in petroleum reserves, worries over peak oil, and financial speculation.\n\nFor a time, geopolitical events and natural disasters had strong short-term effects on oil prices, such as North Korean missile tests, the 2006 conflict between Israel and Lebanon, worries over Iranian nuclear plans in 2006, Hurricane Katrina, and various other factors. By 2008, such pressures appeared to have an insignificant impact on oil prices given the onset of the global recession. The recession caused demand for energy to shrink in late 2008, with oil prices collapsing from the July 2008 high of $147 to a December 2008 low of $32. However, it has been disputed that the laws of supply and demand of oil could have been responsible for an almost 80% drop in the oil price within a 6 month period. Oil prices stabilized by August 2009 and generally remained in a broad trading range between $70 and $120 through November 2014, before returning to 2003 pre-crisis levels by early 2016.\n\nThe price of crude oil in 2003 traded in a range between $20–$30/bbl. Between 2003 and July 2008, prices steadily rose, reaching $100/bbl in late 2007, coming close to the previous inflation-adjusted peak set in 1980. A steep rise in the price of oil in 2008 – also mirrored by other commodities – culminated in an all-time high of $147.27 during trading on 11 July 2008, more than a third above the previous inflation-adjusted high.\n\nHigh oil prices and economic weakness contributed to a demand contraction in 2007–2008. In the United States, gasoline consumption declined by 0.4% in 2007, then fell by 0.5% in the first two months of 2008 alone. Record-setting oil prices in the first half of 2008 and economic weakness in the second half of the year prompted a /day contraction in US consumption of petroleum products, representing 5.8% of total US consumption, the largest annual decline since 1980 at the climax of the 1979 energy crisis.\n\nWorld crude oil demand grew an average of 1.76% per year from 1994 to 2006, with a high of 3.4% in 2003–2004. World demand for oil is projected to increase 37% over 2006 levels by 2030, according to the 2007 U.S. Energy Information Administration's (EIA) annual report. In 2007, the EIA expected demand to reach an ultimate high of , from 2006's , driven in large part by the transportation sector. A 2008 report from the International Energy Agency (IEA) predicted that although drops in petroleum demand due to high prices have been observed in developed countries and are expected to continue, a 3.7 percent rise in demand by 2013 is predicted in developing countries. This is projected to cause a net rise in global petroleum demand during that period.\n\nTransportation consumes the largest proportion of energy, and has seen the largest growth in demand in recent decades. This growth has largely come from new demand for cars and other personal-use vehicles powered by internal combustion engines. This sector also has the highest consumption rates, accounting for approximately 55% of oil use worldwide as documented in the Hirsch report and 68.9% of the oil used in the United States in 2006. Cars and trucks are predicted to cause almost 75% of the increase in oil consumption by India and China between 2001 and 2025. In 2008, auto sales in China were expected to grow by as much as 15–20 percent, resulting in part from economic growth rates of over 10 percent for five years in a row.\n\nDemand growth is highest in the developing world, but the United States is the world's largest consumer of petroleum. Between 1995 and 2005, US consumption grew from a day to a day, an increase of a day. China, by comparison, increased consumption from a day to a day, an increase of a day, in the same time frame. Per capita, annual consumption is by people in the US, in China, and in India.\n\nAs countries develop, industry, rapid urbanization and higher living standards drive up energy use, most often of oil. Thriving economies such as China and India are quickly becoming large oil consumers. China has seen oil consumption grow by 8% yearly since 2002, doubling from 1996–2006.\n\nAlthough swift continued growth in China is often predicted, others predict that China's export-dominated economy will not continue such growth trends due to wage and price inflation and reduced demand from the US. India's oil imports are expected to more than triple from 2005 levels by 2020, rising to .\n\nAnother large factor on petroleum demand has been human population growth. Because world population grew faster than oil production, production per capita peaked in 1979 (preceded by a plateau during the period of 1973–1979). The world’s population in 2030 is expected to be double that of 1980.\n\nState fuel subsidies shielded consumers in many nations from higher market prices, but many of these subsidies were reduced or removed as the governmental cost rose.\n\nIn June 2008, AFP reported that:\n\nIn the same month, Reuters reported that:\n\n\"The Economist\" reported: \"Half of the world's population enjoys fuel subsidies. This estimate, from Morgan Stanley, implies that almost a quarter of the world's petrol is sold at less than the market price.\" U.S. Secretary of Energy Samuel Bodman stated that around of oil consumption (over a third of the global total) was subsidized.\n\nAn important contributor to the price increase was the slowdown in oil supply growth, which has been a general trend since oil production surpassed new discoveries in 1980. The likelihood that global oil production will decline at some point, leading to lower supply, is a long-term fundamental cause of rising prices. Although there is contention about the exact time at which global production will peak, a majority of industry participants acknowledge that the concept of a production peak is valid. However, some commentators argued that global warming awareness and new energy sources would limit demand before the effects of supply could, suggesting that reserve depletion would be a non-issue.\n\nA large factor in the lower supply growth of petroleum has been that oil's historically high ratio of Energy Returned on Energy Invested is in significant decline. Petroleum is a limited resource, and the remaining accessible reserves are consumed more rapidly each year. Remaining reserves are increasingly difficult to extract and therefore more expensive. Eventually, reserves will only be economically feasible to extract at extremely high prices. Even if total oil supply does not decline, increasing numbers of experts believe the easily accessible sources of light sweet crude are almost exhausted and in the future the world will depend on more-expensive unconventional oil reserves and heavy crude oil, as well as renewable energy sources. It is thought by many, including energy economists such as Matthew Simmons, that prices could continue to rise indefinitely until a new market equilibrium is reached at which point supply satisfies worldwide demand.\n\nTimothy Kailing, in a 2008 \"Journal of Energy Security\" article, pointed out the difficulty of increasing production in mature petroleum regions, even with vastly increased investment in exploration and production. By looking at the historical response of production to variation in drilling effort, he claimed that very little increase of production could be attributed to increased drilling. This was due to a tight quantitative relationship of diminishing returns with increasing drilling effort: As drilling effort increased, the energy obtained per active drill rig was reduced according to a severely diminishing power law. This analysis suggested that even an enormous increase of drilling effort was unlikely to lead to significantly increased oil and gas production in a mature petroleum region like the United States.\n\nA prominent example of investment in non-conventional sources is seen in the Canadian oil sands. They are a far less cost-efficient source of heavy, low-grade oil than conventional crude; but when oil trades above $60/bbl, the tar sands become attractive to exploration and production companies. While Canada's oil sands region is estimated to contain as much \"heavy\" oil as all the world's reserves of \"conventional\" oil, efforts to economically exploit these resources lag behind the increasing demand of recent years.\n\nUntil 2008, CERA (a consulting company wholly owned by energy consultants IHS Energy) did not believe this would be such an immediate problem. However, in an interview with \"The Wall Street Journal,\" Daniel Yergin, previously known for his quotes that the price of oil would soon return down to \"normal\", amended the company's position on 7 May 2008 to predict that oil would reach $150 during 2008, due to tightness of supply. This reversal of opinion was significant, as CERA, among other consultancies, provided price projections that were used by many official bodies to plan long-term strategy in respect of energy mix and price.\n\nOther major energy organisations, such as the International Energy Agency (IEA), had already been much less optimistic in their assessments for some time. In 2008, the IEA drastically accelerated its prediction of production decline for existing oilfields, from 3.7% a year to 6.7% a year, based largely on better accounting methods, including actual research of individual oil field production throughout the world.\n\nTerrorist and insurgent groups have increasingly targeted oil and gas installations, and succeeded in stopping a substantial volume of exports during the 2003–2008 height of the American occupation of Iraq. Such attacks are sometimes perpetrated by militias in regions where oil wealth has produced few tangible benefits for the local citizenry, as is the case in the Niger Delta.\n\nMany factors have resulted in possible and/or actual concerns about the reduced supply of oil. The post-9/11 war on terror, labor strikes, hurricane threats to oil platforms, fires and terrorist threats at refineries, and other short-lived problems are not solely responsible for the higher prices. Such problems do push prices higher temporarily, but have not historically been fundamental to long-term price increases.\n\nInvestment demand for oil occurs when investors purchase \"futures contracts\" to buy a commodity at a set price for future delivery. \"Speculators are not buying any actual crude. ... When [the] contracts mature, they either settle them with a cash payment or sell them on to genuine consumers.\"\n\nSeveral claims have been made implicating financial speculation as a major cause of the price increases. In May 2008 the transport chief for Germany's Social Democrats estimated that 25 percent of the rise to $135 a barrel had nothing to do with underlying supply and demand. Testimony was given to a U.S. Senate committee in May indicating that \"demand shock\" from \"institutional investors\" had increased by over the previous five years, almost as much as the increased physical demand from China (). The influence of institutional investors, such as sovereign wealth funds, was also discussed in June 2008, when Lehman Brothers suggested that price increases were related to increases in exposure to commodities by such investors. It claimed that \"for every $100 million in new inflows, the price of West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark, increased by 1.6%.\" Also in May 2008, an article in \"The Economist\" pointed out that oil futures transactions on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX), nearly mirrored the price of oil increases for a several-year period; however, the article conceded that the increased investment might be following rising prices, rather than causing them, and that the nickel commodity market had halved in value between May 2007 and May 2008 despite significant speculative interest. It also reminded readers that \"Investment can flood into the oil market without driving up prices because speculators are not buying any actual crude... no oil is hoarded or somehow kept off the market,\" and that prices of some commodities which are not openly traded have actually risen faster than oil prices. In June 2008, OPEC's Secretary General Abdallah Salem el-Badri stated that current world consumption of oil at 87 million bpd was far exceeded by the \"paper market\" for oil, which equaled about 1.36 billion bpd, or more than 15 times the actual market demand.\n\nAn interagency task force on commodities markets was formed in the U.S. government to investigate the claims of speculators' influence on the petroleum market. The task force concluded in July 2008 that \"market fundamentals\" such as supply and demand provided the best explanations for oil price increases, and that increased speculation was not statistically correlated with the increases. The report also noted that increased prices with an elastic supply would cause increases in petroleum inventories. As inventories actually declined, the task force concluded that market pressures were most likely to blame. Other commodities that were not subject to market speculation (such as coal, steel, and onions) saw similar price increases over the same time period.\n\nIn June 2008 U.S. energy secretary Samuel Bodman said that insufficient oil production, not financial speculation, was driving rising crude prices. He said that oil production had not kept pace with growing demand. \"In the absence of any additional crude supply, for every 1% of crude demand, we will expect a 20% increase in price in order to balance the market,\" Bodman said. This contradicted earlier statements by Iranian OPEC governor Mohammad-Ali Khatibi indicating that the oil market was saturated and that an increase in production announced by Saudi Arabia was \"wrong\". OPEC itself had also previously stated that the oil market was well supplied and that high prices were a result of speculation and a weak U.S. dollar.\n\nIn September 2008, Masters Capital Management released a study of the oil market, concluding that speculation did significantly impact the price. The study stated that over $60 billion was invested in oil during the first six months of 2008, helping drive the price per barrel from $95 to $147, and that by the beginning of September, $39 billion had been withdrawn by speculators, causing prices to fall.\n\nThere is debate over what the effects of the 2000s energy crisis will be over the long term. Some speculated that an oil-price spike could create a recession comparable to those that followed the 1973 and 1979 energy crises or a potentially worse situation such as a global oil crash. Increased petroleum prices are reflected in a vast number of products derived from petroleum, as well as those transported using petroleum fuels.\n\nPolitical scientist George Friedman has postulated that if high prices for oil and food persist, they will define the fourth distinct geopolitical regime since the end of World War II, the previous three being the Cold War, the 1989–2001 period in which economic globalization was primary, and the post-9/11 \"war on terror\".\n\nIn addition to high oil prices, from year 2000 volatility in the price of oil has increased notably and this volatility has been suggested to be a factor in the financial crisis which began in 2008.\n\nThe perceived increase in oil price differs internationally according to currency market fluctuations and the purchasing power of currencies. For example, excluding changes in relative purchasing power of various currencies, from 1 January 2002 to 1 January 2008:\n\nOn average, oil prices roughly quadrupled for these areas, triggering widespread protest activities. A similar price surge for petroleum-based fertilizers contributed to the 2007–08 world food price crisis and further unrest.\n\nIn 2008, a report by Cambridge Energy Research Associates stated that 2007 had been the year of peak gasoline usage in the United States, and that record energy prices would cause an \"enduring shift\" in energy consumption practices. According to the report, in April gas consumption had been lower than a year before for the sixth straight month, suggesting 2008 would be the first year U.S. gasoline usage declined in 17 years. The total miles driven in the U.S. began declining in 2006.\n\nIn the United States, oil prices contributed to inflation averaging 3.3% in 2005–2006, significantly above the average of 2.5% in the preceding 10-year period. As a result, during this period the Federal Reserve steadily raised interest rates to curb inflation.\n\nHigh oil prices typically affect less-affluent countries first, particularly the developing world with less discretionary income. There are fewer vehicles per capita, and oil is often used for electricity generation as well as private transport. The World Bank has looked more deeply at the effect of oil prices in the developing countries.\nOne analysis found that in South Africa a 125 percent increase in the price of crude oil and refined petroleum reduces employment and GDP by approximately 2 percent, and reduces household consumption by approximately 7 percent, affecting mainly the poor.\n\nOPEC's annual oil export revenue surged to a new record in 2008, estimated around US$800 billion.\n\nAccording to informed observers, OPEC, meeting in early December 2007, seemed to desire a high but stable price that would deliver substantial needed income to the oil-producing states, but avoid prices so high that they would negatively impact the economies of the oil-consuming nations. A range of US$70–80 per barrel was suggested by some analysts to be OPEC's goal.\n\nIn November 2008, as prices fell below $60 a barrel, the IEA warned that falling prices could lead to both a lack of investment in new sources of oil and a fall in production of more-expensive unconventional reserves such as the oil sands of Canada. The IEA's chief economist warned, \"Oil supplies in the future will come more and more from smaller and more-difficult fields,\" meaning that future production requires more investment every year. A lack of new investment in such projects, which had already been observed, could eventually cause new and more-severe supply issues than had been experienced in the early 2000s according to the IEA. Because the sharpest production declines had been seen in developed countries, the IEA warned that the greatest growth in production was expected to come from smaller projects in OPEC states, raising their world production share from 44% in 2008 to a projected 51% in 2030. The IEA also pointed out that demand from the developed world may have also peaked, so that future demand growth was likely to come from developing nations such as China, contributing 43%, and India and the Middle East, each about 20%.\n\nBy the beginning of September 2008, prices had fallen to $110. OPEC Secretary General El-Badri said that the organization intended to cut output by about a day, which he saw as correcting a \"huge oversupply\" due to declining economies and a stronger U.S. dollar. On 10 September, the International Energy Agency (IEA) lowered its 2009 demand forecast by to a day.\n\nAs many countries throughout the world entered an economic recession in the third quarter of 2008 and the global banking system came under severe strain, oil prices continued to slide. In November and December, global demand growth fell, and U.S. oil demand fell an estimated 10% overall from early October to early November 2008 (accompanying a significant drop in auto sales).\n\nIn their December meeting, OPEC members agreed to reduce their production by per day, and said their resolution to reduce production in October had an 85% compliance rate.\n\nPetroleum prices fell below $35 in February 2009, but by May 2009 had risen back to mid-November 2008 levels around $55. The global economic downturn left oil-storage facilities with more oil than in any year since 1990, when Iraq's invasion of Kuwait upset the market.\n\nIn early 2011, crude oil rebounded above US$100/bbl due to the Arab Spring protests in the Middle East and North Africa, including the 2011 Egyptian revolution, the 2011 Libyan civil war, and steadily tightening international sanctions against Iran. The oil price fluctuated around $100 through early 2014.\n\nBy 2014–2015, the world oil market was again steadily oversupplied, led by an unexpected near-doubling in U.S. oil production from 2008 levels due to substantial improvements in shale \"fracking\" technology. By January 2016, the OPEC Reference Basket fell to US$22.48/bbl – less than one-sixth of its record from July 2008 ($140.73), and back below the April 2003 starting point ($23.27) of its historic run-up. OPEC production was poised to rise further with the lifting of Iranian sanctions, at a time when markets already appeared to be oversupplied by at least 2 million barrels per day.\n\nAttempts to mitigate the impacts of oil price increases include:\n\nIn mainstream economic theory, a free market rations an increasingly scarce commodity by increasing its price. A higher price should stimulate producers to produce more, and consumers to consume less, while possibly shifting to substitutes. The first three mitigation strategies in the above list are, therefore, in keeping with mainstream economic theory, as government policies can affect the supply and demand for petroleum as well as the availability of substitutes. In contrast, the last type of strategy in the list (attempting to shield consumers from rising prices) would seem to work against classical economic theory, by encouraging consumers to overconsume the scarce quantity, thus making it even scarcer. To avoid creating outright shortages, attempts at price control may require some sort of rationing scheme.\n\nEconomists say that the substitution effect will spur demand for alternate fossil fuels, such as coal or liquefied natural gas and for renewable energy, such as solar power, wind power, and advanced biofuels.\n\nFor example, China and India are currently heavily investing in natural gas and coal liquefaction facilities. Nigeria is working on burning natural gas to produce electricity instead of simply flaring the gas, where all non-emergency gas flaring will be forbidden after 2008. Outside the U.S., more than 50% of oil is consumed for stationary, non-transportation purposes such as electricity production where it is relatively easy to substitute natural gas for oil.\n\nOil companies including the supermajors have begun to fund research into alternative fuel. BP has invested half a billion dollars for research over the next several years. The motivations behind such moves are to acquire the patent rights as well as understanding the technology so vertical integration of the future industry could be achieved.\n\nThe rise in oil prices caused renewed interest in electric cars, with several new models hitting the market, both hybrid and purely electric. The most successful among the former being the Toyota Prius and among the latter the cars of companies like Tesla. Several countries also incentivized the use of electric cars through tax-breaks or subsidies or by building charging stations.\n\nIn a similar vein as the original TGV that was switched from gas turbine to electric propulsion after the 1973 oil crisis, several countries have renewed and increased their efforts for electric propulsion in their rail systems, specifically High-speed rail. In the time since 2003, the global High speed rail network almost doubled and there are plans globally that amount to the network being doubled again within the next ten to twenty years, based on current constructions. China in particular went from having no High speed rail whatsoever in 2003 to the longest network in the world in 2015.\n\nAnother major factor in petroleum demand is the widespread use of petroleum products such as plastic. These could be partially replaced by bioplastics, which are derived from renewable plant feedstocks such as vegetable oil, cornstarch, pea starch, or microbiota. They are used either as a direct replacement for traditional plastics or as blends with traditional plastics. The most common end use market is for packaging materials. Japan has also been a pioneer in bioplastics, incorporating them into electronics and automobiles.\n\nBioasphalt can also be used as a replacement of petroleum asphalt.\n\nThe United States Strategic Petroleum Reserve could, on its own, supply current U.S. demand for about a month in the event of an emergency, unless it were also destroyed or inaccessible in the emergency. This could potentially be the case if a major storm were to hit the Gulf of Mexico, where the reserve is located. While total consumption has increased, the western economies are less reliant on oil than they were twenty-five years ago, due both to substantial growth in productivity and the growth of sectors of the economy with little oil dependence such as finance and banking, retail, etc. The decline of heavy industry and manufacturing in most developed countries has reduced the amount of oil per unit GDP; however, since these items are imported anyway, there is less change in the oil dependence of industrialized countries than the direct consumption statistics indicate.\n\nOne recourse used and discussed in the past to avoid the negative impacts of oil shocks in the many developed countries which have high fuel taxes has been to temporarily or permanently suspend these taxes as fuel costs rise.\n\nFrance, Italy, and the Netherlands lowered taxes in 2000 in response to protests over high prices, but other European nations resisted this option because public service finance is partly based on energy taxes. The issue came up again in 2004, when oil reached $40 a barrel causing a meeting of 25 EU finance ministers to lower economic growth forecasts for that year. Because of budget deficits in several countries, they decided to pressure OPEC to lower prices instead of lowering taxes. In 2007, European truckers, farmers, and fishermen again raised concerns over record oil prices cutting into their earnings, hoping to have taxes lowered. In the United Kingdom, where fuel taxes were raised in October and were scheduled to rise again in April 2008, there was talk of protests and roadblocks if the tax issue was not addressed. On 1 April 2008, a 25 yen per liter fuel tax in Japan was allowed to lapse temporarily.\n\nThis method of softening price shocks is even less viable to countries with much lower gas taxes, such as the United States.\n\nLocally decreasing fuel tax can decrease fuel prices, but globally prices are set by supply and demand, and therefore fuel tax decreases may have no effect on fuel prices, and fuel tax increases might actually decrease fuel prices by reducing demand. But this depends on the price elasticity of demand for fuel which is -0.09 to -0.31, meaning that fuel is a relatively inelastic commodity, i.e. increasing or decreasing prices have overall only a small effect on demand and therefor price change.\n\nTransportation demand management has the potential to be an effective policy response to fuel shortages or price increases and has a greater probability of long term benefits than other mitigation options.\n\nThere are major differences in energy consumption for private transport between cities; an average U.S. urban dweller uses 24 times more energy annually for private transport as a Chinese urban resident. These differences cannot be explained by wealth alone but are closely linked to the rates of walking, cycling, and public transport use and to enduring features of the city including urban density and urban design.\n\nFor individuals, telecommuting provides alternatives to daily commuting and long-distance air travel for business. Technologies for telecommuting, such as videoconferencing, e-mail, and corporate wikis, continue to improve, in keeping with the overall improvement in information technologies ascribed to Moore's law. As the cost of moving human workers continues to rise, while the cost of moving information electronically continues to fall, presumably market forces should cause more people to substitute virtual travel for physical travel. Matthew Simmons explicitly calls for \"liberating the workforce\" by changing the corporate mindset from paying people to show up physically to work every day, to paying them instead for the work they do, from any location. This would allow many more information workers to work from home either part-time or full-time, or from satellite offices or Internet cafes near to where they live, freeing them from long daily commutes to central offices. However, even full adoption of telecommuting by all eligible workers might only decrease energy consumption by about 1% (with present energy savings estimated at 0.01–0.04%). By comparison, a 20% increase in automobile fuel economy would save 5.4%.\n\nThe price rises of mid-2008 led to a variety of proposals to change the rules governing energy markets and energy futures markets, in order to prevent rises due to market speculation.\n\nOn 26 July 2008, the United States House of Representatives passed the Energy Markets Emergency Act of 2008 (H.R. 6377), which directs the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) \"to utilize all its authority, including its emergency powers, to curb immediately the role of excessive speculation in any contract market within the jurisdiction and control of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, on or through which energy futures or swaps are traded, and to eliminate excessive speculation, price distortion, sudden or unreasonable fluctuations or unwarranted changes in prices, or other unlawful activity causing major market disturbances that prevent the market from accurately reflecting the forces of supply and demand for energy commodities.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "22373930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22373930", "title": "2001 African Amateur Boxing Championships", "text": "2001 African Amateur Boxing Championships\n\nThe 11th edition of the African Amateur Boxing Championships were held in Port Louis, Mauritius from 14 May to 20 May 2001. The event was organised by the African Boxing Union for amateur boxing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24859990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24859990", "title": "2009 Republic of Ireland v France football matches", "text": "2009 Republic of Ireland v France football matches\n\nRepublic of Ireland vs France was a two-legged football play-off held on 14 and 18 November 2009 between the national teams of the Republic of Ireland and France as part of the UEFA second round of qualification for the 2010 FIFA World Cup. The first match was held on 14 November in Croke Park, Dublin, Ireland, and ended in a 1–0 victory for France with Nicolas Anelka scoring. The second leg, played on 18 November in the Stade de France outside Paris, France, finished 1-0 to the Republic of Ireland (with Robbie Keane scoring). The tie went to extra time and a controversial William Gallas goal made the score 2-1 on aggregate and France progressed to the World Cup at Ireland's expense.\n\nAfter the second leg, the French captain Thierry Henry admitted to Irish defender Richard Dunne that he had illegally handled the ball in the build-up to Gallas' match-winning goal, which had been scored in extra time with 17 minutes remaining in the game.\n\nThe incident led to calls from the Football Association of Ireland and Government of Ireland to the world governing body FIFA for the result to be set aside and for the game to be replayed, and later for Ireland to be allowed to enter the World Cup as an unprecedented supernumerary 33rd team. Henry, previously seen by many in the sport as a fair footballer, was characterised as cheating, with the incident being compared to Diego Maradona's \"Hand of God\" goal, and \"TIME\" magazine comparing Henry's goal (sometimes called \"Le Hand of God\") to a top ten list of sporting cheats. Henry considered retiring from international football due to the reactions to the game, while the Swedish match referee Martin Hansson considered quitting as a referee.\n\nThe result sparked debate on the issue of fair play in football, and fuelled the ongoing debate on the introduction of video refereeing and Additional Assistant Referees into the sport. At an emergency meeting of the FIFA Executive Committee called in part as a result of the handball controversy, FIFA announced it was setting up an inquiry into the options for technology or extra officials in football, but ruled out any changes being introduced in time for the 2010 World Cup. Henry's case was passed to the FIFA Disciplinary Committee for investigation, which ruled that it could not sanction Henry under the text of the FIFA Disciplinary Code.\n\nThe qualification process for the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa began in 2007, and as Europe-affiliated teams (both being members of UEFA) France and the Republic of Ireland became two of 53 teams competing for 13 places in the finals.\n\nUnder the rules for the 2010 tournament, UEFA qualification was a two-stage process, as had previously been the case for qualification in 2006. Teams were able to qualify automatically by winning one of nine qualifying groups (the first round), and a second chance to qualify was given to eight of the nine second-place finishers via a knock-out phase (the second round) of four games between those eight second-placed teams, contested over two legs, home and away, with the winners of each pairing being awarded one of the four remaining UEFA qualifying places. Both France and the Republic of Ireland failed to qualify as winners of their first-round groups (France in Group 7, the Republic in Group 8), but both teams finished in second place with enough points to allow them to advance to the second round.\nFIFA announced on 29 September 2009 that it would modify the draw system used to select second-round pairings by introducing a seeding system. In the draw, held in Zürich on 19 October, the eight teams were divided into two pots of four; France were seeded along with Greece, Portugal and Russia, while Ireland was unseeded, alongside Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia and Ukraine. Ireland was drawn to play France, with the first of their two games to be played in Ireland on 14 November 2009. The way the seeding process was handled led some to claim at the time that UEFA had changed the rules halfway through to favour to the higher profile teams like France and Portugal, preferring them to qualify over \"smaller\" nations.\n\nThe 18 November date of the second leg of the France vs Republic of Ireland play-off in Saint-Denis coincided with the date of a number of other World Cup qualification matches around the world, marking the completion of the entire qualification process for 2010. With their win, France ultimately joined Algeria, Greece, Slovenia, Portugal and Uruguay as the last of the 32 competitors in South Africa.\n\nUnder the agreed tie-break criteria, the team scoring more goals on aggregate wins the play-off. If scores are level on aggregate, the team with the higher number of away goals advances. If teams are level on away goals, 30 minutes of extra time is played. If the score is level after extra time, the match goes to penalties.\n\nThe Dublin leg of the tie was held at Croke Park instead of the Republic of Ireland's traditional home venue of Lansdowne Road, owing to ongoing redevelopment of that venue as the Aviva Stadium. The French leg was held at Stade de France, the French team's national stadium near Paris.\n\nBefore 1990, the Republic of Ireland had never qualified for the FIFA World Cup finals, while France's best record was two third-place finishes, in 1958 and 1986. Between 1990 and 2006 (the year in which the most recent FIFA World Cup had been held), the Republic of Ireland and France had each qualified for three finals tournaments. The two teams' records for the tournament were as follows:\n\nThe Republic of Ireland team chose a balanced 4-4-2 formation, while the French team opted for their customary 4-2-3-1 formation, favouring offensive play over defence.\n\nA controversial instance of misconduct occurred during extra time in the second leg of the two-legged tie, when the overall score was standing at 1–1 on aggregate. French player Florent Malouda took a free kick just outside the centre circle in the Irish half of the field. He lofted it toward French captain Thierry Henry, who was making a run in the penalty area to Irish goalkeeper Shay Given's right-hand side. The ball bounced once to Henry, now inside the goal area to the left of the goal. As it bounced upwards, Henry handled the ball twice with his left hand, stopping it going out of play and bringing the ball under control, before tapping the ball with the outside of his right foot past Given standing at the near goal post. The ball travelled the short distance to William Gallas arriving in the middle of the goal, who headed the ball into the Irish net to confirm France's place at the 2010 FIFA World Cup.\n\nThe referee immediately signalled the goal as being valid. Irish players inside the penalty box appealed the decision by raising their arms, and as Henry wheeled away in celebration around the back of the Irish goal, Given ran to the referee gesticulating that a handball offence had occurred, while Irish manager Giovanni Trapattoni did the same to the fourth official.\n\nThe handball offence was not seen by the referee or his two assistants, according to the BBC. The match officials also missed an offside during the same phase of play.\n\nHenry told a reporter after the incident, \"Yes, there was hand, but I'm not the referee. 'Toto' (Sébastien Squillaci) was going for the front, I was behind two Irishmen, the ball ricocheted and hit my hand. Of course, I continued to play... The referee did not whistle 'hand' but I can't say there wasn't hand.\" Henry later defended himself against criticism, stating, \"Obviously I would have preferred that things panned out differently but I am not the official. I do not think we have stolen qualification\".\n\nAfter FIFA denied the Football Association of Ireland (FAI) request for a replay, Henry released a statement.\n\nThe fairest solution would be to replay the game but it is not in my control...Naturally I feel embarrassed at the way that we won and feel extremely sorry for the Irish who definitely deserve to be in South Africa...I have said at the time and I will say again that 'yes' I handled the ball. I am not a cheat and never have been. It was an instinctive reaction to a ball that was coming extremely fast in a crowded penalty area...As a footballer you do not have the luxury of the television to slow the pace of the ball down 100 times to be able to make a conscious decision...People are viewing a slow motion version of what happened and not what I or any other footballer faces in the game. If people look at it in full speed you will see that it was an instinctive reaction.\nHenry said that he had considered quitting international football after the reactions to the incident, but was persuaded not to by friends and family. He criticised the French Football Federation (FFF) for their lack of support in the aftermath of the controversy. He regretted the immediate celebration of the goal but put it down to the emotion of the moment, and reflected that not informing the referee had been a mistake. On the issue of lasting impact of the incident, Henry said \"I don't think that all I have achieved in my career up until now will be spoiled by this\".\n\nHenry later called FIFA President Sepp Blatter over the incident. Blatter stated Henry had told him his family had been threatened over the incident by fans.\n\nThe match was officiated by a Swedish team. Martin Hansson was the match referee, assisted by his two assistant referees, Fredrik Nilsson and Stefan Wittberg.\n\nReferee Hansson told Sveriges Radio Blekinge \"I cannot comment on the game itself but life must go on. I will ride this storm as well\". In his first substantial comment on the incident, Hansson spoke to the regional Swedish newspaper \"\" on 24 November. While repeating the fact that FIFA rules prevented him commenting on the game until the investigation concluded, he said the incident was neither his or his referee team's fault. Referring to a graphic illustration printed earlier in \"The Times\" and reproduced in some Swedish newspapers, he said \"[the graphic] clears the whole refereeing team in this incident\". The picture, titled 'Why the referee missed it', purported to show how neither the referee or the assistant referee could have seen the handball incident, due to the presence of three Irish players blocking Hansson's view from his position on the edge of the penalty area, and Irish goalkeeper Shay Given's position obscuring the sightline of the assistant referee, Nilsson, who was standing on the right hand touchline. He also stated that the reaction to the game had made him consider quitting his job as a referee. On 21 June, during the World Cup finals, Hansson said, \"After the game, we were sitting in the dressing room and I cried. I realized what a mistake it was.\"\n\nIreland manager Giovanni Trapattoni stated he did not blame Henry, nor did he expect a replay would occur, but he did believe the incident would bring further pressure on FIFA to introduce goal-line technology, stating \"There is a 30-second stop and we clarify the situation...I'm sure in the future they will have to do something about it. It wasn't up to Henry to say 'I touched it with my hand'\". Trapattoni also questioned the selection of the match referee, stating \"For this important game we needed a stronger referee – an important referee\", and went on to also question the format of the qualifying round matches.\n\nFrench team manager Raymond Domenech said of the game, \"I don't see what we could have done better...We needed to qualify and we did that, even if it was painful. Victories like this one, at the end of a difficult campaign, give this side heart and soul\", although criticism in France of his team, which had existed before the game, continued. Domenech later criticised the condemnation of Henry and France, and questioned the right of former French players like Cantona and Lizarazu to criticise his record as the French coach.\n\nIreland captain and scorer of Ireland's goal in the controversial match Robbie Keane criticised the presidents of FIFA and UEFA following the result, claiming they would be 'delighted' that France had gone through. He told BBC Radio Five Live, \"They're all probably clapping hands, Platini sitting up there on the phone to Sepp Blatter, probably texting each other, delighted with the result.\" After Henry's statement, Keane concurred with his call for a replay in the interest of fair play, stating \"On behalf of the Republic of Ireland players, I would like to thank Thierry Henry... As captain of the French team, to make such a statement took courage and honour, and all of us recognise that\".\n\nIn general, the Irish players blamed the officials rather than Henry. Damien Duff admitted he would have done the same had it been to Ireland's advantage, and said: \"If it was down the other end and it was going out of play, I would have chanced my arm. You can't blame him (Henry). He's a clever player – but you expect the ref to see it, it was so blatant.\" Many players, including Duff, supported call for the introduction of video technology. Sean St Ledger hoped France would be put in a 'group of death' in the World Cup draw, but feared they might go on to win the tournament.\n\nDefender Richard Dunne later spoke of how he was unaware of the extent of Henry's involvement when he sat down with him on the pitch at the end of the match and admitted the handball.<ref name=\"2009/1204/dunner.html\"> Dunne ready to put Paris behind him, Raidió Teilifís Éireann, Friday, 4 December 2009 15:34</ref> Dunne properly viewed the incident for the first time on a computer in his team's dressing room. He also described how \"heartbreaking\" the whole experience was, his lack of interest in the draw or who France's opponents might be in the finals and how \"disappointing\" it would be when the tournament eventually took place.\n\nGiven was critical of Sepp Blatter's later actions, stating his various announcements \"rubbed salt in the wounds\" and his contradictory comments about Henry were \"beyond a joke\". He expressed doubt he would get over the incident in his lifetime. Of Henry, he said \"I'm not saying he's a cheat but what he's done is illegal\".\n\nDunne was later critical of Blatter's offer of moral compensation, describing it as \"taking the mickey\". He doubted Robbie Keane would be going to FIFA to collect any such award. He reiterated the belief that ever since the earlier seedings controversy, FIFA had been showing France unfair favour.\n\nThe FAI filed a formal complaint with FIFA and the FFF, stating, \"The handball was recognised by the FIFA commissioner, the referee observer and the match officials, as well as by the player himself.\" The FAI cited precedent for the invalidation of the result, using the example of a previous World Cup qualification match between Uzbekistan and Bahrain, overturned by FIFA due to a 'technical error by the referee of the match'. In that game, the referee had failed to have a penalty kick re-taken after an attacker encroached on the penalty area. FAI chief executive John Delaney said \"It is up to the people who govern the game now, if they really believe in the principles of fair play then step forward...If we had qualified in this manner, I wouldn't be happy\" The president of the (FFF) Jean-Pierre Escalettes said \"You have to take a philosophical approach to this match.\"\n\nOn 20 November, FIFA rejected the request for a replay, stating to the FAI:\n\nThe result of the match cannot be changed and the match cannot be replayed. As is clearly mentioned in the Laws of the Game, during matches, decisions are taken by the referee and these decisions are final.\n\nAfter FIFA and Thierry Henry's statement, the FAI urged the FFF to respect their views and those of the captains of both teams, to replay the game to \"protect the integrity of the game worldwide\". The FFF, while sympathetic, endorsed the FIFA ruling.\nFollowing the FFF's refusal to support a replay, the FAI expressed \"deep disappointment\".\n\nAt the request of the FAI, Sepp Blatter met an Irish delegation in Zürich for 90 minutes on Friday 27 November. The FAI proposed a number of ways the incident could be prevented in future and, agreeing that the match could not be replayed, they instead also officially requested to be allowed to enter the World Cup as an unprecedented extra 33rd entrant. Blatter stated that he would raise the Irish request at an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) of the FIFA executive committee. RTÉ Sport speculated that the request would be \"politely turned down\". The request drew 'laughter' when he relayed it to the Soccerex conference the following Monday. Blatter was of the opinion that if the Republic of Ireland were admitted as an extra entrant, Costa Rica would also have to be considered as well, having also been unfairly eliminated by an offside goal in a play-off against Uruguay. FIFA secretary-general Jerome Valcke had ruled it out on 1 December, one day before the meeting, clarifying that Blatter's comments regarding other teams had already shown the request was \"impossible\" and had \"no hope\" of being granted. According to \"The Guardian\" on 30 November, the Irish had not expected the request to be successful, but they had also \"asked FIFA to consider compensating them in some other way, perhaps by seeding them in the draw for the 2014 World Cup\".\n\nThe FAI's proposals included: no changes to competition formats mid-tournament (referring to the play off group seeding change), introduce video technology at the highest level, implement additional assistant referees behind the goal line for all international matches, introduce stronger sanctions for players who breach the Laws of the Game in a \"match defining way\", and issuing a statement that \"FIFA does not condone breaches\" of those Laws, referring to Sepp Blatter's previous statements of empathy with Henry. The FAI stated they did not ask for any action to be taken against Henry.\n\nDelaney reacted angrily to Blatter's public disclosure of what was intended to be a confidential submission to the FIFA executive committee, complaining to the FIFA general secretary and calling it \"disrespectful to our country\", and stating the 33rd team proposal had been \"very much peripheral\" to their suggestions, and was only discussed \"for a minute or two\" in the meeting. The FAI asserted that the 33rd place request had not even been included in any of the written submissions to FIFA.\n\nBlatter had initially faced criticism for refusing to comment on the incident. His first comments came with a report in \"L'Équipe\", and during his opening address at the Soccerex football conference in Johannesburg, South Africa, both on Sunday 29 November.\n\nBlatter said that it had not been Henry's responsibility to tell the referee of the misdemeanour, comparing a similar incident in his own playing career, when he did not tell the referee about an advantage gained by shirt-pulling. Blatter said that referee Hansson \"should have taken the time to reflect rather than immediately awarding the goal\".\n\nOn the issue of fair play, Blatter said \"There is a lack of discipline and respect in the game by the players because they are cheating\" and \"How can it happen that all over the world, through TV cameras, we have seen through a cheating handball that a pass was given for a goal? Everyone is asking what is and what isn't fair play. The highest crime in football is touching the ball with the hands\". Referring to the possibility of using assistant referees or goal line technology, Blatter stated, \"match control is now is on the agenda. How shall we avoid such situations as we have seen in this very specific match?\" Blatter repeated his stated opposition to video refereeing, saying, \"With technology, you have to stop a match. You have a look at cameras... We have to maintain the human face of football and not go into technology.\"\n\nOn the issue of fair play at the World Cup, Blatter commented after the FIFA executive committee's EGM:\nI appeal to all the players and coaches to observe this fair play. In 2010 we want to prove that football is more than just kicking a ball but has social and cultural value... So we ask the players 'please observe fair play' so they will be an example to the rest of the world\nBlatter apologised to the FAI on 2 December for the public disclosure of the FAI's submission to FIFA and for the media's perception of his comments at Soccerex, saying, \"I have nothing against the Irish, they were very sporting people when they came to FIFA and it is a pity that it has been now communicated in this way.\" After the EGM, John Delaney described FIFA as the \"biggest losers\" in the controversy for having \"made one mistake after another\", referring to the mid-competition change in seeding rules for the play-off, the negative imagery of football as a whole generated by FIFA's actions and Henry's goal, and Sepp Blatter's subsequent dealings with the FAI.\n\nOn 23 November FIFA announced that the FIFA executive committee would hold an extraordinary general meeting (EGM) on 2 December in Cape Town, where members were already due to meet to discuss the seedings for the World Cup, in order to discuss various recent incidents affecting the world game. According to BBC Radio 5 Live sports news correspondent Gordon Farquhar, the Henry incident would be \"high on the agenda\". Gordon Smith, the chief executive of the Scottish Football Association and a member of the International Football Association Board, believed that introduction of AARs in time for the World Cup would be pressed for at the EGM by UEFA president Michel Platini, who had been a long-time supporter of the concept; Smith said of the proposal, \"I feel that it has its advantages at the highest levels of the games. When there's massive TV coverage the problems are highlighted all over the world so this is something we may have to look at.\" The FAI was to be given the chance to present their views at the EGM, with Delaney hoping it would not be a \"token\" gesture, criticising the lack of direct contact from FIFA. FIFA President Sepp Blatter confirmed on 30 November that the EGM would consider the use of AARs and goal-line technology in the 2010 World Cup, and changing the two-legged play-off qualification format, possibly in favour of a single game played at a neutral venue.\n\nThe EGM was held on 2 December at the Cape Town International Convention Centre. The executive committee at the time consisted of FIFA president Sepp Blatter, eight vice-presidents and 15 members, and the FIFA general secretary Jérôme Valcke. The membership included representatives of various confederations and associations around the world. In response to Blatter's comments at Soccerex and before the EGM, the FAI formally notified FIFA in writing that they were withdrawing their request to enter the World Cup as a 33rd team, and accordingly this matter was not considered. The FAI's other suggestions were, however, discussed.\n\nAccording to FIFA, the EGM discussion resulted in \"concrete proposals\" to ensure that improvements were made on the issues raised. According to Blatter, the committee recognised the game was at a \"crossroads\" and that, at the highest levels, where 32 cameras were to be used to film the 2010 World Cup, it was now \"impossible\" for just the referee and his two assistants to \"see everything\".\n\nThe EGM announced that FIFA would be setting up an inquiry into future use of extra assistants and technology. The new inquiry would, according to Blatter, \"have a look at technology or additional persons\". Described as a \"full inquiry\" or \"working party\" by media commentators, it was to comprise a new FIFA committee with input drawn in part from the existing FIFA referees', football, technical and medical committees.\n\nThe expected introduction of AARs for the 2010 World Cup was ruled out. The committee \"stressed that it would be too soon to implement this new system at the 2010 FIFA World Cup South Africa.\" Blatter explained that, as AARs had not yet been trialled outside of Europe, the committee was of the opinion that any experiment must be carried out \"globally\" before it could be used in a World Cup. Blatter confirmed that the experiment with AAR's in the Europa League would continue into the 2010 knock-out stages. The meeting also ruled out the use of video refereeing systems similar to those seen in rugby, cricket and tennis. Blatter stated that two companies investigating goal-line technology were due to report their results to International Football Association Board (IFAB) in March 2010. FIFA also called on the general secretaries of the Continental Federations to propose improvements to the format of the qualification and play-off phase of the World Cup competition, for submission by March 2010.\n\nOn the issue of possible disciplinary sanctions against Henry individually, a FIFA spokesperson stated \"The [independent] disciplinary commission...will decide if the case is of interest [when they meet sometime in the next two weeks]. The possibility exists of sanctioning a player for unsporting behaviour on the basis of video evidence\". Examples of FIFA disciplinary action taken against players for incidents missed by the referee based on video evidence include banning Mauro Tassotti for eight games for use of an elbow during the 1994 World Cup quarter-final, and banning Marco Materazzi for two games for his verbal provocation of Zinedine Zidane in the 2006 FIFA World Cup Final, resulting in the infamous headbutting incident.\n\nOn 2 December after the FIFA EGM it was announced that FIFA's disciplinary committee would open an investigation into Henry's handball. No timetable was given for when the investigation, chaired by Swiss lawyer Marcel Mathier, would rule on the case.\n\nBlatter said of the decision to single out Henry for investigation of a handball:\n\nI have not said that Thierry Henry will be punished, I have said that Thierry Henry will be examined [by the committee]...it's not a question of this player or another – it was blatant unfair play and was seen all around the world...let [the committee] make the decision. Fair play must be maintained in our game\nAccording to the Associated Press, the committee had the \"authority to impose a one-match suspension on Henry, which would take effect at the start of the World Cup in June\". According to the BBC, FIFA said \"there was no certainty Henry would be banned if found guilty\".\n\nOn 18 January 2010 it was announced that Henry would face no sanctions in relation to the incident, after the committee found it had \"no legal foundation\" to deal with the case, as the relevant rules only covered sanctions for preventing a goal by illegally handling the ball. FIFA rules reportedly forbade any other action as the referee had not seen the original incident. FIFA released the following statement:\n\nthe Disciplinary Committee reached the conclusion that there was no legal foundation for the committee to consider the case because handling the ball cannot be regarded as a serious infringement as stipulated in article 77a of the FIFA Disciplinary Code. There is no other legal text that would allow the committee to impose sanctions for any incidents missed by match officials.\nThe FFF president Jean-Pierre Escalettes hoped the announcement would mark the end of the incident, stating of the decision that is \"not astonishing, it is logical\".\n\nFIFA secretary general Jérôme Valcke later denied that France's absence from the top 8 seeded teams for the 2010 World Cup draw had been a result of the controversy, stating that the change to the seeding system (using the world rankings as they stood at October 2009) was fairer than past systems. The FFF president described the decision as logical, although former French coach Michel Hidalgo disagreed.\n\nIn a quirk of the resulting draw, the lack of seeding ultimately did not have a detrimental effect on France, as they were drawn into Group A; since the seeding place in Group A had already been allocated to the host nation South Africa, a Group A draw was the only possible outcome where France would not have been placed into a group with one of the top seven seeded teams. South Africa were ranked 86th in the world at the time, making them the lowest-ranked team competing in the tournament; \"The Irish Times\" commented that this turn of events in France's favour would cause the Irish to feel particularly aggrieved. At the finals, France ultimately failed to qualify from their group, failing to win a game and managing only a solitary point in their first match against Uruguay; following a major disruption at the team's camp by the French players.\n\nFrance and the Republic of Ireland did not meet in the qualifying matches for the 2012 European Championships. France were drawn in Group D while Ireland were drawn in Group B, although they were drawn together in the practice run for the draw held the day before.\n\nAfter the FIFA EGM, John Delaney said, \"In terms of the football side, this is the end of the matter\", but that \"the incident will linger long in the memory like Diego Maradona's handball.\" Delaney hoped the promise of an inquiry into refereeing and technology was \"not a fudge.\" The FAI and FIFA were however due to meet again after the EGM according to Blatter, to discuss some form of non-financial compensation for the controversy. On 4 June 2015 it emerged during an RTÉ interview that FIFA had bought the FAI's silence with a €5 million payment which would prevent any legal action against them.\n\nIn January 2010, match referee Hansson and his assistant Stefan Wittberg were both selected as one of the thirty officiating teams to be used at the 2010 World Cup; however, Hansson's other assistant on the day of the incident, Fredrik Nilsson who missed the handball, was not selected, being replaced by Henrik Andren. FIFA had insisted at the time of the incident that, since selection of referees for the World Cup referee was based on long-term assessments, Hansson would probably make it to the finals. UEFA president Michel Platini called it a good decision, defending Hansson as having not been responsible for the incident as he had not seen the handball.\n\nThe incident has been compared to Maradona's infamous \"Hand of God\" goal in the 1986 World Cup, which led to the incident being labelled as the \"Hand of Frog\" the \"Hand of Gaul\" and the \"Hand of Henry\" affair.\n\nIrish Taoiseach Brian Cowen called on FIFA for a replay, stating that \"fair play is a fundamental part of the game\". Cowen raised the issue with French President Nicolas Sarkozy while both were at the European Union summit in Brussels on 19 November 2009. After the summit, Sarkozy stated, \"I told Brian Cowen how sorry I was for them...But don't ask me to substitute myself for the referee, or the French football authorities, or the European football authorities.\"\n\nThe incident was criticised in Dáil Éireann, the lower house of the Irish Parliament. The Irish Minister for Justice Dermot Ahern called on FIFA to act in the interests of fair play. The French Prime Minister François Fillon stated that the 'Irish government should not interfere in footballing decisions'. Rama Yade, French Secretary of State for Sports, and FFF vice-president Noël Le Graët both defended Henry from accusations of intentional cheating, pointing to his playing record, and stating that he should be presumed innocent unless he stated he deliberately set out to cheat.\nThe French Sports Minister Roselyne Bachelot and Christine Lagarde Minister of Economic Affairs were sympathetic to the Irish viewpoint.\n\nOn the eve of Henry's possible punishment being discussed at the FIFA EGM, FFF technical director Gérard Houllier defended Henry, stating the handball was instinctive and that the blame lay with the referee, pointing out that had the goal not been scored, the match would still have gone to penalties. Houllier also called for the introduction of video refereeing.\n\nAccording to \"The Independent\", the organiser of the 2010 World Cup Danny Jordaan resisted calls for video refereeing and believed that 'disputed decisions should be considered part of football'. Leslie Irvine, the Northern Irish former referee and FIFA instructor on the referee selection panel for the 2010 World Cup, was of the opinion that referee Hansson was not to blame for the incident, as by simply not seeing the incident he had not committed a 'technical infringement', and said Thierry Henry bore \"moral responsibility\" for the controversy. Jacques Rogge, president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) praised Henry's decision to express his regrets over the affair, but declined to comment further, having not seen the incident. On the eve of the FIFA EGM, FIFA Secretary General Jérôme Valcke, while lamenting the fact that after 853 matches in the qualifying process, only one was being talked about, he said \"It's important to make sure what happened will not happen again\".\n\nWhile in Dublin on 26 November for a charity event, Pelé said \"maybe the linesman could help, but even the linesman doesn't see the game. We say fair play, but you know I don't think it was unfair, something that goes in one second... The result was unfair, but unfortunately you can't change that\"\n\nFootball pundits Johnny Giles, Eamon Dunphy and Graeme Souness, analysing the video replays on RTÉ Two, disputed whether Shay Given or anybody else was obscuring the view of the assistant referee from seeing the incident, although they were not certain the assistant could have flagged with certainty for handball even if he had a clear line of sight, due to the speed of the incident and flight of the ball. Former Irish international and football pundit Mark Lawrenson said \"The man cheated. He controlled the ball with the second handball. It is a Maradona moment\". Another former Irish international Tony Cascarino wrote in \"The Times\" that Henry \"speaks so eloquently, but to me now he'll always be insincere, a faker, someone who cares only about himself\". Former French international David Ginola said \"I'm very embarrassed by the situation...I don’t feel very proud to be French this morning. The Irish played very well and they deserved to go through as much as France, maybe more. I'm very surprised FIFA haven't mentioned anything about it – the whole world saw the handball. This is a pure injustice. Everyone in France, the press and everyone, says there should be a replay\". Former Ireland captain Roy Keane said the attempt by the FAI to get a replay was \"rubbish\", telling them to \"get over it\", that France were there for the taking and Ireland should not have allowed Henry to be in such a good position in the first place. Keane later apologised to any Irish fans offended by his \"over the top\" comments.\n\nHenry's former France teammate Bixente Lizarazu stated \"It was not something to be proud of. I'm not going to party.\" Henry's former Arsenal and France teammate Emmanuel Petit wrote that \"The feeling among the French public on Thursday morning was one of embarrassment – we didn't want to qualify in controversial circumstances, we wanted to beat Ireland by playing within the rules\" and \"Thierry's handball will not send out a good message\", but he was of the opinion that this \"very rare indiscretion\" would not damage his reputation, explaining that \"There is a referee on the pitch and if he didn't see that's not France's problem.\" Petit later criticised FIFA and UEFA for their lack of support for Henry, and believed that Henry had saved Raymond Domenech's job. French player Patrice Evra questioned the patriotism of those French people attacking Henry, and was of the opinion that those same people would have criticised Henry had he informed the referee he had committed handball. Former French captain Patrick Vieira blamed the referee for the controversy, and supported the idea of video refereeing or having a fifth referee to assist in games. Former French international Eric Cantona was critical of Domenech, and referring to Henry's immediate post-match act of consoling an Irish player, said \"If I'd been Irish, he wouldn't have lasted three seconds.\"\n\nAnother former Arsenal teammate Lee Dixon wrote that Henry had gone down in a lot of Arsenal fans' estimations, and Henry \"has been a truly great footballer – one of the best players we've ever seen in the Premier League – but now people will remember him for that goal against Ireland. It's really sad\". England footballer David Beckham defended Henry, stating \"I honestly didn't think Thierry meant it...I know him as a player and a person. He's a good person and a great player... these things happen in football\"\n\nHenry's former Arsenal manager and Frenchman Arsène Wenger said of the incident that \"This isn't the French way and football should learn from this\", although he theorised that Henry did not inform the referee due to \"the pressure and what's at stake\". Wenger later added, \"For the sense of justice it is quite embarrassing to see...I think even France is embarrassed...we won the game and won the qualification with a goal that was not a goal\". Wenger believed Henry, who was one of the \"fairest [players] I've managed\", was being unfairly left to face criticism by France, and that the real issue was the lack of technology being in place. Manchester United manager Sir Alex Ferguson was of the opinion that \"every player and manager in the world\" thinks that \"technology can play a part\" to help referees, but recognised that it was FIFA who had to be convinced. Henry's club manager of Barcelona, Pep Guardiola said as Henry returned to training in Spain that he \"is not proud to have done that, but it wasn't premeditated\", and gave guarded support for use of video refereeing. German Robert Huth expressed sympathy with the Irish, but on the merits of a replay, contrasted the lack of a replay after the controversial goal in the 1966 World Cup final. Danish goalkeeper Brian Jensen said \"He didn't do it on purpose? Blah blah blah. My 'beep'. I won't say the word cheats – but ... I said it\".\n\nThierry Roland, described by \"the Times\" as the \"doyen of French TV football commentators\", said of the game \"It's a scandal, a shame with a capital S.\"\n\nAccording to the BBC, the game \"attracted mass news coverage across Europe\". Agence France-Presse (AFP) described how the result of the game sparked an \"international outcry\" and how as a result of the handball, Henry had been \"pilloried as a cheat around the globe\". TIME magazine immediately named Henry as number 1 in a List of Sporting Cheats, ahead of Crashgate (listed as number 2), Black Sox Scandal,\nBen Johnson, Tonya Harding, Doping in East Germany, Rivaldo at the 2002 World Cup, Boris Onishchenko, Basketboo, Hansie Cronje and the original Hand of God goal (listed as number 11).\n\nSky Sports estimated qualification for the 2010 World Cup was worth £26.7m to Irish football, and was worth a similar amount to the French. FAI chief executive John Delaney denied the issue was about money, rather a matter of \"fair play and integrity\". The 2010 tournament prize money was later confirmed by FIFA as being $9m for participating, a further $9m for exiting the group stage, with potential prize totals rising to $30m for the eventual winners.\n\nSpanish media, where Henry had played his club football since leaving England in 2007, took great interest in the event. The Spanish daily sports newspaper Diario Marca carried the headline \"Football rails against 'cheating' Henry\".\n\nFrench newspaper \"L'Équipe\" greeted the incident with the headline 'Hand of God', while \"Le Parisien\" had \"Henry Saves France With His Hand.\", and \"Le Figaro\" led with \"Henry: 'I Am Not the Referee'.\" L'Equipe also wrote, \"France have qualified for the 2010 World Cup, that's for sure, but the result, the most essential thing in sport after all, is not enough to erase the uneasy feeling we had last night\". \"Le Parisien\" also wrote \"The handball of Henry has brought a decisive contribution to the theme 'being French is being ashamed of one's national team'\". \"Le Monde\" noted the lack of any calls for a replay following the controversial penalty for handball that went in Ireland's favour, during their previous Group 8 qualifying game against Georgia on 11 February 2009. Australia's \"Daily Telegraph\" said Henry would \"earn a place in infamy as one of the biggest cheats in world sport\".\n\nSwedish newspapers advocated that the Swedish referee used for the match Martin Hansson be removed from further major international assignments. \"Aftonbladet\" declared of the officials \"that Team Hansson has also forfeited its right to continue to take charge of major international matches. Anything else would be a further insult to the Irish nation\". Mark Ogden of \"The Telegraph\" criticised Henry for not informing referee Hansson during the game, and speculated the incident would 'ruin his career', comparing the cases of referees Anders Frisk and Tom Henning Øvrebø.\n\nIn Britain, where Henry had spent much of his club career, \"The Sun\"'s headline was \"Le Hand of God: Cheat Theirry Does A Maradona.\", while \"The Daily Mirror\" was \"French Nickers.\", with \"The Independent\" using \"Hand Gaul!\". The \"Los Angeles Times\" speculated the incident had the potential to ruin his reputation with a moment of \"eternal notoriety\". The Guardian's chief sportswriter Richard Williams wrote that the incident was worse than Maradona's foul, describing his handball as \"a street kid's instinct\", while Henry's was \"a sophisticated man, and a much-decorated one.\" Williams also critiqued Henry's decision not to inform the referee, citing previous club football examples of players not taking advantage of a referee's mistake: Robbie Fowler in 1997 unsuccessfully pleading for the referee not to give a penalty in his favour, Paolo Di Canio in 2000 catching the ball rather than scoring past an incapacitated goalkeeper, and Costin Lazăr in 2009 successfully insisting he would not take the penalty awarded to him for what he saw as a fair challenge. Henri Astier wrote for BBC News that the reaction in France, a \"nation not particularly known for its moral qualms\", had ranged from \"embarrassment to outrage\". Dominic Lawson wrote in \"The Sunday Times\" that \"[Ireland] has taken on the role of unjustly oppressed victim – something the Irish do well, having had several centuries of practice\".\n\nPatrick Barclay, Chief Football Correspondent for \"The Times\", declared that the Henry incident \"ended the argument\" over the issue of video refereeing. \"The Times\" also speculated that the incident might lead to a fast-tracked global deployment of the Additional Assistant Referee (AAR) system already under trial by FIFA, pointing out that under the trial configuration, the extra goal-line assistant would have been standing directly in front of Henry as he touched the ball with his hand. FIFA confirmed the AAR plan was to be discussed at the March 2010 International Football Association Board meeting. On the issue of football introducing AAR's, the \"Wall Street Journal\" compared and contrasted the demands on referees in the World Cup compared to those in National Football League, National Hockey League and boxing, and relayed the negative experience of U.S. Soccer a decade previously, who took part in an international trial using two referees, one in each half, which 'led to poor game management'. The Times also questioned Henry's record on fair play, recalling his comments and actions during controversial incidents in a 2001/2 Champions League game against Panathinaikos, in the 2001 FA Cup Final, in the 2006 World Cup games against Spain and Portugal, in the 2006 Champions League Final and 2006–07 Champions League game against CSKA Moscow. Tim Rich of \"The Independent\" urged for video refereeing, asserting that the Europa League trial of AAR's had \"not been an unqualified success\", citing a failure of intervention by the goal line official in a game between Fulham, in which the players had to intervene themselves to ensure the main referee, Belgian Paul Allaerts, identified the correct man to send off after a foul on Roma player John Arne Riise, after mistakenly identifying the offender as Brede Hangeland. The player sent off was Stephen Kelly, ironically an unused Irish substitute in the controversial France game.\n\nJonathan Clegg debated in the \"Wall Street Journal\" the effect of the incident on Henry's lucrative sponsorship deals, comparing it to incidents such as ING Group's withdrawal from the Renault F1 after the Crashgate controversy, the retention of sponsors by Harlequin F.C. after their Bloodgate fake injury scandal, and the enhanced fortunes of Zinedine Zidane in spite of his head-butting of Marco Materazzi in the 2006 FIFA World Cup Final. Gillette, who Henry represents in advertisements, were threatened with a boycott and an email campaign. A brand spokesman said that it would not affect their relationship with Henry. Susie Mesure of \"The Independent\" later speculated that there was now a 'Curse of Gillette' befalling its three major sporting representatives, with the Henry controversy being followed in quick succession by Tiger Woods' car accident on 27 November, and a rare defeat of Roger Federer by Nikolay Davydenko in the 2009 ATP Tour on 28 November. A Gillette spokesperson had earlier denied allegations made by \"The Sun\" that a version of the \"Gillette Champions\" poster showing the three men with a tennis racket, golf club and football, had been doctored to remove a ball from Henry's hand in the French version of their website.\n\nAmerican radio host Jim Rome commented: \"I'm glad the guy did it; it led to a goal...How 'bout that guy. The guy was just trying to make a play. I thought it was smart; I liked it. It led to a goal; what's not to like?\"\n\nSpeaking on \"Football Focus\" on 21 November, Philippe Auclair of France Football magazine said that, unlike Eric Cantona's \"moment of madness\", he could not see Thierry Henry earning a similar redemption in England for this \"calculated moment of cheating\".\n\nOn 22 November, the \"Irish Independent\" claimed that the FFF had been willing to stage a replay and that FIFA would not have prevented it, but the offer had been blocked by the French manager Raymond Domenech.\n\nA \"Wall Street Journal\" editorial supported FIFA's decision not to replay the match and distinguished the refereeing error from the one in the replayed Uzbekistan-Bahrain match.\n\nHenry Winter of \"The Telegraph\" wrote that FIFA had \"gained some credibility\" by deciding to investigate Henry after the EGM, whose presence at the World Cup would otherwise overshadow the Fair Play campaign, and that the Henry controversy made the case for having a panel of experts examine every major game after the event for infractions missed by the referee. Winter contrasted any possible punishment of Henry with the two-month ban issued to Diego Maradona for simply 'insulting reporters'. Diana Worman on Aljazeera.net criticised FIFA's decision to investigate Henry for an act that happens all the time, and would have only warranted a yellow card, writing \"Henry should never have been expected to make a 'sportsmanlike' decision after the goal and it's unfair for Fifa to make an example of him\". \"The Canadian Press\" criticised FIFA's \"cowardly\" decision to investigate Henry and do nothing to change the situation for the 2010 World Cup. The \"Irish Times\" stated that the FAI's recommendations to FIFA in the wake of the controversy had been \"effectively disregarded\" at the EGM.\n\nAfter the announcement that Henry would face no sanctions, Simon Rice of \"The Independent\" declared Henry had \"got away with it\", and compared his lack of punishment to nine other notable sporting incidents: Michael Schumacher (1994 Australian Grand Prix), Sir Alex Ferguson (against The Football Association generally), Graeme Smith (4th test, South Africa v England, 2010), Eduardo (diving against Celtic, 26 August 2009), Toni Schumacher (1982 World Cup semi-final), Trevor Chappell (the 1981 Underarm bowling incident), Andy Haden (Wales v New Zealand, 1978), Diego Maradona (1986 Hand of God goal) and Fred Lorz (1904 Olympics Men's Marathon). After the announcement, Agence France-Presse speculated that any discipliniary action for Henry would have presented an \"unwelcome precedent\" for FIFA, and any punishment would have been merely symbolic, given the lack of prior cases of such retrospective player sanctions.\n\nFIFA's subsequent decision to select referee Hansson as one of the 2010 World Cup officials was criticised by the Irish media, as well as UEFA president Michel Platini's comments that it would have been \"great\" if France and the Republic of Ireland had been drawn together for the 2012 European Championships.\n\n'A few hundred' Irish fans marched from Lansdowne Road Stadium to the French embassy on Ailesbury Road in Dublin, to demand a replay. The protesters were described as 'light hearted' and drawn from all age groups. An online poll run by French newspaper \"Le Monde\" revealed 88% of the 97,000 respondents said \"no\" to the question \"Does France deserve to be in South Africa?\". A Facebook petition demanding a replay was signed by over 500,000. The petition was to be handed to FIFA once it passed half a million signatories. The French teachers' union SNEP-FSU condemned Henry's irresponsible example of \"indisputable cheating\". Henry's official Twitter page was reportedly suspended due to \"strange activity\". When the World Cup pool games began Pizza Hut Delivery Ireland began a promotion offering a free pizza to every goal scored against France.\n\nThe Irish band, The Mighty Stef, wrote \"Protest Song with No Name\", which ends with the lyrics \"you might cheat us, you might beat us, but you'll never lay a hand on our soul\". The Corrigan Brothers wrote \"The Hand of Henry\", which includes the line \"Sepp Blatter was happy\". French company Le Coq Sportif were parodied over the incident, with an agency printing T-shirts with the words Le Coq un-Sportif. Irish bookmakers Paddy Power launched a two-week advertising campaign in the baggage claim area of Dublin Airport poking fun at Henry, with posters stating \"Paddy Power welcomes you to Ireland... unless you're called Thierry\". Cleaners in Ireland also reportedly vandalised the unrelated \"Henry\" brand of vacuum cleaner. Irish rockstar Bono called on FIFA to do the noble thing, not act bureaucratically, and grant Ireland's request to be added to the World Cup as a 33rd entrant.\n\nFrench philosopher Alain Finkielkraut said on Europe 1 radio that \"We are faced with a real matter of conscience...We certainly have nothing to be proud of.\" British author Roger Scruton said \"one of the major justifications of sport in all its forms is that it teaches the virtues of fair play...Victory achieved by cheating leaves a foul taste in the mouth...and makes the whole thing as pointless to [the defeated team and its supporters] as it is to someone like me who has never quite experienced the allure of the game\". The founder of the British Philosophy of Sport Association called for \"restorative justice\", and said that players had an obligation to honesty that \"over-rides their self-serving commitments\". French economist Jacques Attali wrote \"Nous sommes tous Irlandais\", in reference to the \"Le Monde\" headline \"Nous sommes tous Americains\" (We are all Americans) in the aftermath of the 11 September attacks.\n\nBookmakers William Hill stated they would refund any bets placed backing Ireland to qualify, to be \"as fair as possible to everyone.\"\n\nThierry Henry was \"booed relentlessly\" by fans of Athletic Bilbao in his first competitive match after playing Ireland.\n\nOn 4 December 2009, Charlize Theron co-presented the draw for the 2010 FIFA World Cup in Cape Town, South Africa, accompanied by several other celebrities of South African origin. During rehearsals she drew an Ireland ball instead of France as a joke at the expense of FIFA, referring to the Thierry Henry handball controversy and France's controversial qualification. The stunt alarmed FIFA enough for it to fear she might do it again in front of a live global audience.\n\nIrish fans donned sombreros and cheered as Mexico beat France 2–0 in their second group stage match on 17 June 2010. France was subsequently eliminated from the World Cup following a 2–1 loss to host nation South Africa in their final group stage match, and finished at the bottom of Group A.\n\nDuring the World Cup, English comedian James Corden refused to acknowledge France on his \"human wallchart\" during his post-World Cup match TV show James Corden's World Cup Live, replacing France with Ireland, and when chatting with the Irish member of the wallchart, referred to players such as \"Terry Henry\" and \"Paddy Evra\", Irish variants of the names of France players Theirry Henry and Patrice Evra.\n\nThe Irish playwright and novelist Dermot Bolger's stage play, \"The Parting Glass\", is based around this game in Paris, with most of the second half of the play occurring during the actual match in the Stade de France, as an Irish father and son watch their final Ireland game together before the son emigrates to find work in Canada.\n\nThe 2010 Leinster Senior Football Championship Final between Louth and Meath held at Croke Park on 11 July 2010 drew comparisons with Thierry Henry's cheating due to its controversial ending in which Louth were wrongfully defeated by a last minute Meath goal which was thrown into the net and therefore should not have stood. Louth were in the lead at the time and would have won their first Leinster Senior Football Championship in 53 years if Meath had not been given the goal. Louth fans burst onto the pitch as the final whistle blew, chasing and physically assaulting the referee around the field, while a steward was knocked unconscious with a bottle during ugly scenes played out on live television. The referee was struck on at least three different points as he scrambled away from the baying mob. Meath chairman Barney Allen compared calls for the game to be replayed with Henry's moment of shame, saying \"Ireland didn't get a replay when France got a lucky goal\". As the controversy continued to erupt, RTÉ analyst Pat Spillane called it a \"disgrace\". Setanta Sports said the \"goal\" would \"now go down in infamy as the GAA's Thierry Henry incident\".\n\nIn 2011, \"L'Affair Henry the, ahem, touchiest sporting controversy in living memory\" received its own episode of \"Scannal\", the TV series dedicated to scandalous events. The \"Evening Herald\" reviewer called it an \"entertaining, tightly-packaged edition\" of the show but also opined, \"Where \"Scannal\" stumbled, however, was in its failure to go in with both feet on the cringe-inducing elephant in the room: John Delaney's embarrassing plea to Fifa boss, the odious Sepp Blatter, to let Ireland be \"the 33rd team\" at the World Cup\".\n"}
{"id": "58739587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58739587", "title": "2019 Monte Carlo Rally", "text": "2019 Monte Carlo Rally\n\nThe 2019 Monte Carlo Rally (formally known as the 87 Rallye Automobile Monte-Carlo) is a motor racing event for rally cars that will be held over four days between 25 and 28 January 2018. It marks the eighty-seventh running of the Monte Carlo Rally, and is the first round of the 2019 World Rally Championship and its support category, the WRC-2. The 2019 event is based in the town of Gap in the Hautes-Alpes department of France and contests sixteen special stages. The rally covers a total competitive distance of .\n\nReigning World Drivers' and World Co-Drivers Champions Sébastien Ogier and Julien Ingrassia are the defending rally winners. Their 2018 former team, M-Sport Ford WRT, are the defending manufacturers' winners. The Škoda Motorsport crew of Jan Kopecký and Pavel Dresler are the World Rally Championship-2 defending rally winners.\n\n"}
{"id": "52457364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52457364", "title": "20th Anniversary Farewell Tour", "text": "20th Anniversary Farewell Tour\n\nThe 20th Anniversary Farewell Tour was a concert tour by former members of Rhapsody. It was announced on November 21, 2016 by ex-Rhapsody members Luca Turilli (founder and composer), Fabio Lione (lead singer), Patrice Guers, Dominique Leurquin and Alex Holzwarth. It celebrated the 20th anniversary of \"Legendary Tales\" and had a number of their classic hits played at their shows, along with \"Symphony of Enchanted Lands\" in its entirety.\n\nFabio has stated that the original band would no longer exist as the other members want to do different music. Keyboardist Alex Staropoli did not play on this tour.\n\nThe following setlist was performed at the first show of the tour at Le Brise Glace in Annecy, but has since had alterations to it:\nEncore:\n\nCancelled dates\n\n"}
{"id": "9711169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9711169", "title": "52nd World Science Fiction Convention", "text": "52nd World Science Fiction Convention\n\nThe 1994 Hugo Awards were presented for work in 1993:\nThe 52nd World Science Fiction Convention (Worldcon), also known as ConAdian, was held 1–5 September 1994 at the Crowne Plaza, Place Louis Riel, and Sheraton hotels, and the Winnipeg Convention Centre in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. \n\nThe chairman was John Mansfield. The Guests of Honor were Anne McCaffrey (pro), George Barr (artist), and Robert Runte (fan). The toastmaster was Barry B. Longyear. Total attendance was approximately 3,570.\n\nConAdian was the first Worldcon with its own official website.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3911471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3911471", "title": "Africa Source", "text": "Africa Source\n\nAfrica Source was a set of events, held in 2004 and 2006 in Namibia and Uganda respectively, to promote the use of Free/Libre and Open Source Software (FLOSS) among non-profit and non-governmental organisations. Africa Source was part of the wider \"Source Camps\" organised by Tactical Technology Collective (Tacticaltech.org) and its partners, and was also linked to the Asia Source and other parallel events held elsewhere.\n\nAfrica Source's first camp was held from March 15 to 19, 2004 at Okahandja, Namibia. It had around 60 participants from across Africa. This event's focus was on \"the practical challenges of realising F/OSS [Free/Libre and Open Source Software] in the African context, the aim was to build cooperation between Africa's most active F/OSS individuals and projects in the longer term.\"\n\nIt was organised by Tactical Tech, AllAfrica and SchoolNet Namibia. It was supported by the Open Society Initiative for Southern Africa (OSISA), Open Society Initiative for West Africa (OSIWA), OSI Budapest, USAID and O'Reilly.\n\nAfrica Source 2 was organised in the first fortnight of January 2006 in Kalangala, an island on Lake Victoria, in Uganda. Organisers announced that the Africa Source II agenda was to be developed for the following primary target audiences:\n\nMain themes for the event were:\nMany issues came up for debate at the Africa Source 2. Among them were that FLOSS is still too complicated for non-profit organisations and schools to use, and the need for translating FLOSS into African languages.\n\nThe event had three tracks: 'migration for NGOs', 'migration for education', and 'information management'\n\n"}
{"id": "41881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41881", "title": "All About Eve", "text": "All About Eve\n\nAll About Eve is a 1950 American drama film written and directed by Joseph L. Mankiewicz, and produced by Darryl F. Zanuck. It was based on the 1946 short story \"The Wisdom of Eve\" by Mary Orr, although screen credit was not given for it.\n\nThe film stars Bette Davis as Margo Channing, a highly regarded but aging Broadway star. Anne Baxter plays Eve Harrington, an ambitious young fan who insinuates herself into Channing's life, ultimately threatening Channing's career and her personal relationships. The film co-stars George Sanders, Celeste Holm, and features Gary Merrill, Hugh Marlowe, Thelma Ritter, Marilyn Monroe in one of her earliest roles, Gregory Ratoff, Barbara Bates and Walter Hampden.\n\nPraised by critics at the time of its release, \"All About Eve\" received 14 Academy Award nominations and won six, including Best Picture. \"All About Eve\" is the only film in Oscar history to receive four female acting nominations (Davis and Baxter as Best Actress, Holm and Ritter as Best Supporting Actress). \"All About Eve\" was selected in 1990 for preservation in the United States National Film Registry and was among the first 50 films to be registered. \"All About Eve\" appeared at #16 on AFI's 1998 list of the 100 best American films.\n\nMargo Channing (Bette Davis) is one of the biggest stars on Broadway. But having just turned forty she is worried about what her advancing age will mean for her career. After a performance of Margo's latest play, \"Aged in Wood,\" Margo's close friend Karen Richards (Celeste Holm), wife of the play's author Lloyd Richards (Hugh Marlowe), brings in a besotted fan, Eve Harrington (Anne Baxter), to meet Margo. Eve tells the group gathered in Margo's dressing room—Karen, Lloyd, Margo's boyfriend Bill Sampson (Gary Merrill), a director who is eight years her junior, and Margo's maid Birdie (Thelma Ritter)—that she followed Margo's last theatrical tour to New York after seeing her perform in San Francisco. She tells an engrossing story of growing up poor in Wisconsin and losing her young husband in World War II. Moved, Margo quickly befriends Eve, takes her into her home, and hires her as her assistant, leaving Birdie, who instinctively dislikes Eve, feeling put out.\n\nEve quickly insinuates herself into Margo's life, acting as her secretary and adoring fan. She seems to anticipate Margo's every need, including placing a long-distance phone call to Bill when Margo forgets his birthday. Margo becomes increasingly distrustful and bitter towards her, particularly after she catches Eve taking a bow to an empty theatre while pretending to wear Margo's costume for \"Aged in Wood\". Margo asks her producer, Max Fabian, to hire Eve at his office, but instead Eve manages to become Margo's understudy without Margo's knowledge. As Margo's irritation grows, Karen feels sorry for Eve. In hopes of humbling Margo, Karen arranges for her to miss a performance of \"Aged in Wood,\" so Eve will have to give the performance in her place. Eve invites the city's theatre critics, including the acerbic Addison DeWitt (George Sanders), to attend that evening's performance, which is a triumph for her. After that evening's performance, Eve tries to seduce Bill, but he rejects her. Instead, Addison takes her under his wing and interviews her for a column that criticizes Margo for not making way for new talents like Eve. Margo and Karen are furious.\n\nThat evening, Margo and Bill announce their engagement at dinner with the Richardses in the Cub Room of the Stork Club. Eve, who was dining at a nearby table with DeWitt, calls Karen into the ladies' room and, after first appearing regretful, tells her to either ask Lloyd to give her the part of Cora—the lead in Lloyd's next play, \"Footsteps on the Ceiling\"—or she will reveal Karen's role in Margo's missed performance. Before Karen can talk with Lloyd, Margo announces to everyone's surprise that she does not wish to play Cora and would prefer to continue in \"Aged in Wood.\"\n\nEve is cast as Cora. Just before the out-of-town premiere of \"Footsteps on the Ceiling\" at the Shubert in New Haven, Eve presents Addison with her next plan: to marry Lloyd, who, she claims, has come to her professing his love and his eagerness to leave his wife for her. Now, Eve exults, Lloyd will write brilliant plays showcasing \"her.\" Angered that Eve believes she can manipulate him as easily as she does everyone else, Addison reveals he knows that her back story is all lies. Her real name is Gertrude Slescynski, she was never married, and she had been paid to leave town over an affair with her boss. Addison blackmails Eve, informing her that she will not be marrying Lloyd or anyone else; in exchange for Addison's silence, she now \"belongs\" to him.\n\nA year later, Eve is a shining Broadway star headed for Hollywood. At an awards banquet, she thanks Margo, Bill, Lloyd, and Karen with characteristic effusion, while all four stare back at her coldly. Eve skips a party in her honor, and returns home alone, where she encounters Phoebe (Barbara Bates)—a high-school-aged fan—who has slipped into her apartment and fallen asleep. The young girl professes her adoration and begins at once to insinuate herself into Eve's life, offering to pack Eve's trunk for Hollywood. While Eve rests in the other room, Phoebe dons the elegant robe that Eve wore to the banquet and poses in front of a multi-paned mirror, holding the award as if it were a crown.\n\n\nThe story of \"All About Eve\" originated in an anecdote related to Mary Orr by actress Elisabeth Bergner. While performing in \"The Two Mrs. Carrolls\" during 1943 and 1944, Bergner allowed a young fan, Martina Lawrence, to become part of her household and employed her as an assistant, but later regretted her generosity when the woman attempted to undermine her. Referring to her only as \"the terrible girl,\" Bergner related the events to Orr, who used it as the basis for her short story \"The Wisdom of Eve\" (1946). In the story, Orr gives the girl a more ruthless character and allows her to succeed in stealing the older actress' career. Bergner later confirmed the basis of the story in her autobiography \"Bewundert viel, und viel gescholten\" (\"Greatly Admired and Greatly Scolded\").\n\nIn 1949, Mankiewicz was considering a story about an aging actress and, upon reading \"The Wisdom of Eve,\" felt the conniving girl would be a useful added element. He sent a memo to Darryl F. Zanuck saying it \"fits in with an original idea [of mine] and can be combined. Superb starring role for Susan Hayward.\" Mankiewicz presented a film treatment of the combined stories under the title \"Best Performance.\" He changed the main character's name from Margola Cranston to Margo Channing and retained several of Orr's characters — Eve Harrington, Lloyd and Karen Richards, and Miss Casswell — while removing Margo Channing's husband completely and replacing him with a new character, Bill Sampson. The intention was to depict Channing in a new relationship and allow Eve Harrington to threaten both Channing's professional and personal lives. Mankiewicz also added the characters Addison DeWitt, Birdie Coonan, Max Fabian, and Phoebe.\n\nZanuck was enthusiastic and provided numerous suggestions for improving the screenplay. In some sections, he felt Mankiewicz's writing lacked subtlety or provided excessive detail. He suggested diluting Birdie Coonan's jealousy of Eve so the audience would not recognize Eve as a villain until much later in the story. Zanuck reduced the screenplay by about 50 pages and chose the title \"All About Eve\" from the opening scenes in which Addison DeWitt says he will soon tell \"more of Eve ... All about Eve, in fact.\"\n\nAmong the actresses originally considered to play Margo Channing were Mankiewicz's original inspiration, Susan Hayward, who was rejected by Zanuck as \"too young,\" Marlene Dietrich, dismissed as \"too German,\" and Gertrude Lawrence, who was ruled out of contention when her lawyer insisted that Lawrence not have to drink or smoke in the film, and that the script would be rewritten to allow her to sing a torch song. Zanuck favored Barbara Stanwyck, but she was not available. Tallulah Bankhead was also considered, as was Joan Crawford, who was already working on the film \"The Damned Don't Cry.\"\n\nEventually, the role went to Claudette Colbert, but she withdrew after an injury shortly before filming began. Mankiewicz briefly considered Ingrid Bergman for the aging diva role, before giving it to Bette Davis. Davis, who had recently ended an 18-year association with Warner Bros. after several poorly received films, immediately accepted the role after realizing it was one of the best she had ever read. Channing had originally been conceived as genteel and knowingly humorous, but with the casting of Davis, Mankiewicz revised the character to be more abrasive. Mankiewicz praised Davis both for her professionalism and for the caliber of her performance.\n\nAnne Baxter had spent a decade in supporting roles and had won the 1946 Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for \"The Razor's Edge.\" She got the role of Eve Harrington after the first choice, Jeanne Crain, became pregnant. Crain was at the height of her popularity and had established a career playing likable heroines; Zanuck believed she lacked the \"bitch virtuosity\" required by the part and that audiences would not accept her as a deceitful character.\n\nThe role of Bill Sampson was originally intended for John Garfield or Ronald Reagan. Reagan's future wife Nancy Davis was considered for Karen Richards and José Ferrer for Addison DeWitt. Zsa Zsa Gabor actively sought the role of Phoebe without realizing the producers were considering her, along with Angela Lansbury, for Miss Casswell.\n\nMankiewicz greatly admired Thelma Ritter and wrote the character of Birdie Coonan for her after working with her on \"A Letter to Three Wives\" in 1949. As Coonan was the only one immediately suspicious of Eve Harrington, he was confident Ritter would contribute a shrewd characterization casting doubt on Eve and providing a counterpoint to the more \"theatrical\" personalities of the other characters. Marilyn Monroe, relatively unknown at the time, was cast as Miss Casswell, referred to by DeWitt as a \"graduate of the Copacabana School of Dramatic Art.\" Monroe got the part after a lobbying campaign by her agent, despite Zanuck's initial antipathy and belief that she was better suited to comedy. Angela Lansbury had been originally considered for the role. The inexperienced Monroe was cowed by Bette Davis, and it took 11 takes to complete the scene in the theatre lobby with the star; when Davis barked at her, Monroe left the set to vomit. Smaller roles were filled by Gregory Ratoff as the producer Max Fabian, Barbara Bates as Phoebe, a young fan of Eve Harrington, and Walter Hampden as the master of ceremonies at an award presentation.\n\nThe film earned $2.9 million in box office receipts in the United States during its release.\n\n\"All About Eve\" received overwhelmingly positive reviews from critics upon its release on October 13, 1950 at a New York City premiere. The film's competitor, \"Sunset Boulevard,\" released the same year, drew similar praise, and the two were often favorably compared. Film critic Bosley Crowther of \"The New York Times\" loved the film, stating that \"a fine Darryl Zanuck production, excellent music and an air of ultra-class complete this superior satire.\" \"Variety\" called it \"a literate, adult film\" with \"exceedingly well-cast performances,\" while \"Harrison's Reports\" called it \"a fascinating, continually absorbing story about Broadway theatrical people, given a mature treatment and penetrated with realistic dialogue and flashes of slick, sardonic humor.\" John McCarten of \"The New Yorker\" called it \"a thoroughly entertaining movie.\"\n\nWriting in 2000, film critic Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun Times\" praised the film, saying Bette Davis' character \"veteran actress Margo Channing in \"All About Eve\" was her greatest role.\" Boxoffice.com stated that it \"is a classic of the American cinema – to this day the quintessential depiction of ruthless ambition in the entertainment industry, with legendary performances from Bette Davis, Anne Baxter and George Sanders anchoring one of the very best films from one of Hollywood's very best Golden Era filmmakers: Joseph L. Mankiewicz.\"\n\nCritics and academics have delineated various themes in the film. Rebecca Flint Marx, in her \"Allmovie\" review, notes the antagonism that existed between Broadway and Hollywood at the time, stating that the \"script summoned into existence a whole array of painfully recognizable theatre types, from the aging, egomaniacal grand dame to the outwardly docile, inwardly scheming ingenue to the powerful critic who reeks of malignant charm.\" Roger Ebert, in his review in \"The Great Movies\", says Eve Harrington is \"a universal type,\" and focuses on the aging actress plot line, comparing the film to \"Sunset Boulevard.\" Similarly, Marc Lee's 2006 review of the film for \"The Daily Telegraph\" describes a subtext \"into the darker corners of show business, exposing its inherent ageism, especially when it comes to female stars.\" Kathleen Woodward's 1999 book, \"Figuring Age: Women, Bodies, Generations (Theories of Contemporary Culture)\", also discusses themes that appeared in many of the \"aging actress\" films of the 1950s and 1960s, including \"All About Eve.\" She reasons that Margo has three options: \"To continue to work, she can perform the role of a young woman, one she no longer seems that interested in. She can take up the position of the angry bitch, the drama queen who holds court (the deliberate camp that Susan Sontag finds in this film). Or she can accept her culture's gendered discourse of aging which figures her as in her moment of fading. Margo ultimately chooses the latter option, accepting her position as one of loss.\"\nProfessor Robert J. Corber, who has studied homophobia within the cultural context of the Cold War in the United States, posits that the foundational theme in \"All About Eve\" is that the defense of the norms of heterosexuality, specifically in terms of patriarchal marriage, must be upheld in the face of challenges from female agency and homosexuality. The nurturing heterosexual relationships of Margo and Bill and of Karen and Lloyd serve to contrast with the loveless relationship predation and sterile careerism of the homosexual characters, Eve and Addison. Eve uses her physical femininity as a weapon to try to break up the marriages of both couples, and Addison's extreme cynicism serves as a model of Eve's future. Even film reviewer Kenneth Geist, despite being critical of the emphasis that Sam Staggs' book \"All About All About Eve\" places on the film's homosexual elements, nonetheless acknowledged that Eve's lesbianism seemed apparent; specifically, Geist states that \"manifestations of Eve’s lesbianism are only twice briefly discernible.\" Geist asserted that Mankiewicz \"was highly contemptuous of both male and female homosexuals,\" although Mankiewicz himself suggested otherwise in an interview in which he argued that society should \"drop its vendetta against them.\"\nHomosexuality was often linked to communism during the Cold War's Lavender Scare and critics have written about film's subtle, yet central, Cold War narrative. The fair amount of subtlety employed in \"All About Eve\" is seen as primarily being due to Production Code restrictions on the depiction of homosexuals in the media during this time. However, notwithstanding those restrictions, Corber cites the film as but one example of a recurrent theme within American film of the homosexual as an emotionally bereft predator. The documentary \"The Celluloid Closet\" also affirms this theme to which Corber refers, including citing numerous other film examples from the same Production Code time period in which \"All About Eve\" was made.\n\nAnother important theme of the film, in terms of war politics and sexuality, involves the post-World War II pressure placed upon women to acquiesce agency. This pressure to resume \"traditional\" female roles is especially illustrated in this film in the contrast between Margo's mockery of Karen Richards for being a \"happy little housewife\" and her lengthy and inspired monologue, as a reformed woman later, about the virtuousness of marriage, including how a woman is not truly a woman without having a man beside her. This submissive and effeminate Margo is contrasted with the theatricality, combativeness, and egotism of the earlier career woman Margo, and the film's two homosexual characters. Margo quips that Eve should place her award \"where her heart should be,\" and Eve is shown bereft at the end of the film. At dinner, the two married couples see Eve and Addison in a similarly negative light, with Margo wondering aloud what schemes Eve was constructing in her \"feverish little brain.\" Additionally, Eve's utility as a personal assistant to Margo early in the film, which is a subtle construct of a same-sex intimate relationship, is decried by Birdie, the same working-class character who immediately detected the theatricality in Eve's story about her \"husband.\" Birdie sees such agency as being unnatural, and the film contrasts its predatory nature (\"studying you like a blueprint\") with the love and warmth of her later reliance upon Bill. The pressure to acquiesce agency and more highly value patriarchy, following the return of men from the war, after having been shown propaganda promoting agency such as Rosie the Riveter and after having occupied traditionally male roles such as bomb-building factory worker, was deemed \"the problem that has no name\" by well-known feminist Betty Friedan.\n\nDespite what critics such as Corber have described as the homophobia pervasive in the movie, \"All About Eve\" has long been a favored film among gay audiences, likely due to its campy overtones (in part due to the casting of Davis) and its general sophistication. Davis, who long had a strong gay fan base, expressed support for gay men in her 1972 interview with \"The Advocate\".\n\nIn 1990, \"All About Eve\" was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant.\" The Academy Film Archive preserved \"All About Eve\" in 2000. The film received in 1997 a placement on the Producers Guild of America Hall of Fame. The film also has a 100% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. The film has been selected by the American Film Institute for many of their 100 Years lists.\n\nWhen AFI named Bette Davis #2 on its list of the greatest female American screen legends, \"All About Eve\" was the film selected to highlight Davis' legendary career.\n\nThe Writers Guild of America has ranked the film's screenplay as the fifth greatest ever written.\n\nThe film opens with the image of a fictitious award trophy, described by DeWitt as the \"highest honor our theater knows: the Sarah Siddons Award for Distinguished Achievement.\" The statuette is modelled after the famous painting of Siddons costumed as the tragic Muse by Joshua Reynolds, a copy of which hangs in the entrance of Margo's apartment and often visible during the party scene. In 1952, a small group of distinguished Chicago theater-goers began to give an award with that name, which was sculpted to look like the one used in the film. It has been given annually, with past honorees including Bette Davis and Celeste Holm.\n\nThe first radio adaptation was broadcast on the Lux Radio Theatre on NBC on October 1, 1951 starring Bette Davis, Gary Merrill and Anne Baxter.\n\nA second radio version of \"All About Eve\" starring Tallulah Bankhead as Margo Channing was presented on NBC's \"The Big Show\" by the Theatre Guild of the Air on November 16, 1952. Bankhead and many contemporary critics felt that the characterization of Margo Channing was patterned on her, a long-rumored charge denied by both Mankiewicz and Davis, but attested by costume designer Edith Head. Additionally, Bankhead's rivalry with her understudy (Lizabeth Scott) during the production of \"The Skin of Our Teeth\" is cited as an alternative hypothesis for the origin of Mary Orr's \"The Wisdom of Eve,\" the original short story that formed the basis for the film. Bette Davis played three roles on film that had been originated by Tallulah Bankhead — \"Dark Victory\", \"Jezebel\" and \"The Little Foxes\", much to Bankhead's chagrin. Bankhead and Davis were considered to be somewhat similar in style. Several decades later Davis called Channing \"the essence of a Tallulah Bankhead kind of actress\" in an interview with Barbara Walters. The production is notable in that Mary Orr, of \"The Wisdom of Eve,\" played the role of Karen Richards. The cast also featured Alan Hewitt as Addison DeWitt (who narrated), Beatrice Pearson as Eve Harrington, Don Briggs as Lloyd Richards, Kevin McCarthy as Bill Samson, Florence Robinson as Birdie Coonan, and Stefan Schnabel as Max Fabian.\n\nIn 1970, \"All About Eve\" was the inspiration for the stage musical \"Applause,\" with book by Betty Comden and Adolph Green, lyrics by Lee Adams, and music by Charles Strouse. The original production starred Lauren Bacall as Margo Channing, and it won the Tony Award for Best Musical that season. It ran for four previews and 896 performances at the Palace Theatre on Broadway. After Bacall left the production, she was replaced by Anne Baxter in the role of Margo Channing.\n\n\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\n\nStreaming audio\n"}
{"id": "56747504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56747504", "title": "Bar 51", "text": "Bar 51\n\nBar 51 (Hebrew: בר 51) is a 95-minute 1986 Israeli Hebrew-language independent underground dramatic art film directed by Amos Guttman and cowritten with and .\n\nThe film deals with Thomas’s (Juliano Mer-Khamis) incestuous love for his sister, Mariana (): After they arrive together in Tel Aviv-Yafo, after escaping from Migdal HaEmek due to the death of their Christian mother, Ewa (), and setting up housekeeping in the sleazy side of town, Thomas makes his money as “kept man” for two different women who are nightclub entertainers at a bar filled with homosexual, deformed, and inebriated workers, Luna (Belinka Metzner) and Zara a.k.a. Sarah Azulay (). He first attempts to work at a hotel yet is fired upon being caught stealing supplies for Mariana and has to resort to a dirty shelter. At the same time, he attracts the attentions of an amorous transvestite prostitute and stripper (“Ada Valerie-Tal” i.e. Sergiu Valerie) calling himself “Apolonia Goldstein” (a character based on Abraham Goldstein a.k.a. “Gila Goldstein” who ran a real-life bar called Bar 51) who allows the siblings to live at his apartment. His unnatural love for his sister goes unexpressed, however, his jealousy cannot be controlled. If his sister wants to lead any sort of a normal life, it will be up to her to break her dependence on her brother and move on. The film, developed at and distributed by , stars \"inter alia\" Alon Abutbul, Mosko Alkalai, , and David Wilson and features music by and (in addition to a song performed by and written by and ), cinematography by , editing by , and production by Enrique Rottenberg and . The film ends with Thomas violently raping Mariana, following by her killing him.\n\nJournalist favorably compared this film to the works of Rainer Werner Fassbinder and Martin Scorsese, journalist blasted the film for its lack of “style” though he nonetheless called it one of the great Israeli films of the 1980s, while journalist Daniel Warth also noted the similarities to Fassbinder and Pier Paolo Pasolini, yet claimed that these remained on the surface only, as this film lacked a “message.” Nevertheless, more recently, it came out as the 30th best Israeli film out of 40 listed in a poll of critics conducted by \"Maariv\", and also received two votes (Marat Parkhomovsky and ) in a similar 2018 survey of critics. The film, whose budget was said to be the equivalent of $400,000, was awarded several prizes by the Israeli Ministry of Economy and was screened at Chicago International Film Festival, despite being a commercial failure with only 32,000 tickets sold. The film was released on DVD in Israel by as part of a boxset containing the complete filmography of Guttman and an equivalent boxset was released in France by . Several nowadays notable Israeli film people, such as , , and , started out as crew bit parts on this film and it is said to be a big influence on Sivan Levy, who covered some of its music (such as the 1937 song \"My Funny Valentine\" by Richard Rodgers and Lorenz Hart). A main character in Guttman’s 1992 film \"Amazing Grace\" is also called Thomas, probably as homage to this film.\n\n"}
{"id": "42953375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42953375", "title": "Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Eurovision Song Contest 1995", "text": "Bosnia and Herzegovina in the Eurovision Song Contest 1995\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina participated in the Eurovision Song Contest 1995 in Dublin, Ireland. Davorin Popović represented Bosnia and Herzegovina with the song \"Dvadeset prvi vijek\". They finished on 19th place out of 23 countries with 14 points.\n"}
{"id": "27029082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27029082", "title": "Brian Eaton", "text": "Brian Eaton\n\nAir Vice Marshal Brian Alexander Eaton, (15 December 1916 – 17 October 1992) was a senior commander in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF). Born in Tasmania and raised in Victoria, he joined the RAAF in 1936 and was promoted to flight lieutenant on the outbreak of World War II. He held training positions before being posted to No. 3 Squadron at the beginning of 1943, flying P-40 Kittyhawk fighter-bombers in North Africa. Despite being shot down three times within ten days soon after arriving, Eaton quickly rose to become the unit's commanding officer, and by year's end had been awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross. His leadership earned him the Distinguished Service Order and Bar in 1944–45, and command of No. 239 Wing RAF in Italy, with the temporary rank of group captain. He was also awarded the US Silver Star in 1946 in recognition of his war service.\n\nIn the decade following World War II, Eaton led No. 81 Wing in Japan, and No. 78 Wing in Malta. He commanded RAAF Base Williamtown from 1957 to 1959, after which he was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire. As Director-General of Operational Requirements in 1965, Eaton argued for increased RAAF co-operation with the Australian Army in light of growing involvement in the Vietnam War. He was promoted to air vice marshal the next year, and became Deputy Chief of the Air Staff. Posted to Singapore as Air Officer Commanding (AOC) No. 224 Group RAF in 1967, he was appointed a Companion of the Order of the Bath for his work as chief of staff at Headquarters RAF Far East Air Force in 1969. He then served as Air Member for Personnel, before being selected as AOC Operational Command in 1973. Eaton retired from the RAAF in December that year, and became an executive for Rolls-Royce in Canberra. He died in 1992 at the age of 75.\n\nBrian Eaton was born in Launceston, Tasmania, on 15 December 1916, to Sydney and Hilda Eaton. The family later moved to Canterbury, Victoria, and Brian was educated at Carey Grammar. His early ambition to be a doctor was curtailed when his father died and he had to leave school early. He enlisted as an air cadet in the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF) on 20 January 1936, undergoing flying training at RAAF Station Point Cook.\n\nEaton was commissioned as a pilot officer upon graduation from flying school in January 1937, and posted to No. 1 Squadron. Within six months he was promoted to flying officer and joined No. 21 Squadron at RAAF Station Laverton. In 1938, he became an instructor at Point Cook's No. 1 Flying Training School, where he also took part in the RAAF's early long navigation exercises. He was promoted to flight lieutenant on 1 September 1939.\n\nIn April 1940, Eaton was assigned to the newly re-formed Central Flying School at Camden, New South Wales, as an instructor. Promoted to temporary squadron leader in September 1940, he was transferred to the Directorate of Training in June 1941. He became a fighter controller at No. 5 Fighter Sector Headquarters, Darwin, Northern Territory, in March 1942. In October that year, he departed Australia for North Africa via India and the United Kingdom, fearful that the fighting would be over before he arrived. He posted in to No. 1 Middle East Training School in January 1943 prior to taking up duties with No. 3 Squadron RAAF, which was then engaged in the Battle of Tunisia.\n\nEaton's combat career began inauspiciously, when he was shot down three times in the space of ten days. On the first occasion, his P-40 Kittyhawk was hit by 20 mm cannon shells from an enemy fighter that he never saw. He later recalled, \"I was too busy getting the kite down to be frightened. But my God was I surprised.\" Eaton brought his crippled aircraft in for a forced landing at El Hamma—in the midst of a tank battle between German and New Zealand forces. After the fighting had died down he made his way over to the New Zealanders, who gave him a lift back to his air base. The second time he was shot down, his plane was struck by 88 mm anti-aircraft fire, necessitating another crash landing, this time behind enemy lines. Sympathetic Arab tribesmen smuggled him past the Germans and back to his airfield. Two days later, his P-40 was hit by fire from an Me 109 that dived at him from out of the sun. He was able to glide back to base, away, but on arriving found that it was under attack by German bombers. He decided he had no other option than to land the damaged plane among the exploding bombs, and managed to do so without mishap. His series of narrow escapes engendered a spirit of fatalism, and a habit of keeping his emotions severely in check while on duty: \"I just couldn't see myself living when so many were dying. It was something which, at the time, didn't bear much dwelling on.\"\n\nDespite his early setbacks in combat, Eaton soon rose to command No. 3 Squadron, taking over from Squadron Leader Bobby Gibbes on 21 April 1943. He led the unit as it relocated to Malta the following month, in preparation for the Allied invasion of Sicily. Illness forced him to hand over command in June–July, but he returned to take charge of the squadron in August as it continued to fly escort and interdiction missions in Sicily with other units of No. 239 Wing RAF. His brother Roger, a flight sergeant serving with the RAF, was killed in a Wellington bomber raid during the campaign. On 3 September, No. 3 Squadron took part in the opening day of the Allied invasion of Italy, supporting the British XIII Corps as it moved inland after landing at Calabria. Enemy air resistance remained light and worthwhile ground targets few as the campaign progressed but, on 24 October, Eaton led an attack against German shipping off the Yugoslav coast that left a merchant ship and two barges on fire. He repeated the exercise on 7 November, when the squadron scored hits on vessels in two separate raids in the harbour at Split. On 19 November, when the rest of No. 239 Wing was unable to complete any missions due to adverse weather, Eaton found a hole in the clouds and led eight Kittyhawks in a successful attack on Opi in central Italy. He was promoted to temporary wing commander on 1 December. On 14 December, he was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross for pressing home a night attack on Axis armour at Termoli. The citation was promulgated in the \"London Gazette\":\nOn 16 February 1944, the day after the contentious destruction of Monte Cassino, Eaton took No. 3 Squadron through a break in the bad weather to attack the ruined monastery, the only one of No. 239 Wing's units to successfully bomb its target that day. He handed over command of No. 3 Squadron later that month, and was transferred to No. 1 Mobile Operations Room Unit as forward air controller for the final assault on Monte Cassino. The run of luck that Eaton experienced in his first weeks of air combat in Tunisia continued on the ground in Italy. He survived three months of constant artillery fire, including an occasion when a shell exploded directly above his observation post, striking down a British officer standing next to him. He also came under machine-gun fire when he took a wrong turn one day and drove into the German lines, but again escaped unhurt. He was awarded the Distinguished Service Order on 7 April, in recognition of his leadership of No. 3 Squadron in North Africa, Malta, Sicily and Italy.\nRaised to acting group captain, Eaton was given command of No. 239 Wing on 3 August 1944, taking responsibility for No. 3 Squadron and No. 450 Squadron RAAF, No. 112 Squadron and No. 260 Squadron RAF, No. 5 Squadron of the South African Air Force, and No. 250 Squadron of the Royal Rhodesian Air Force. Credited with leading \"many outstanding raids\", he was known to his staff as \"The Boss\", and often flew twice a day with a different squadron on each mission; when his superiors found out how many sorties he was personally undertaking and ordered him to cut back, he simply ceased recording his flying hours. The wing's two RAF squadrons had already re-equipped with P-51 Mustangs when Eaton took over; No. 5 converted in September and No. 3 in November. As well as supporting the Eighth Army in Italy, the Mustang units carried out missions in Yugoslavia in concert with the Balkan Air Force, prior to Axis forces surrendering on 2 May.\n\nEaton was unofficially credited with shooting down as many as seven enemy aircraft during the Mediterranean campaigns, but was never listed among Australian flying aces. Many of the missions that he undertook with No. 3 Squadron and in command of No. 239 Wing were ground attack or anti-shipping sorties, rather than air-to-air combat. He was also known as a leader who, when opportunities did arise to engage other aircraft, would attempt to manoeuvre his rookie pilots into position to make a \"kill\", rather than take the shot himself. On 12 June, he was awarded a Bar to his Distinguished Service Order for \"Outstanding skill and leadership against heavy odds\". His war service also earned him the US Silver Star, permission to wear it being gazetted on 14 June 1946.\n\nEaton was posted to Britain following the end of World War II, and attended RAF Staff College the next year. In September 1947, he was appointed Officer Commanding No. 81 (Fighter) Wing in Japan, as part of the British Commonwealth Occupation Force (BCOF). The Australian contingent initially comprised three combat units, Nos. 76, 77 and 82 Squadrons, as well as No. 381 (Base) Squadron, No. 481 (Maintenance) Squadron, No. 111 Mobile Fighter Control Unit, and No. 5 Airfield Construction Squadron. By mid-1949, it had been reduced to No. 77 Squadron alone, and Headquarters BCOF had been disbanded; Eaton served as \"RAAF Component\" commander for the remainder of his tenure in Japan. As well as surveillance patrols, training and inter-service exercises, the Australian airmen took part in ceremonial flypasts. On one such occasion, over Tokyo, Eaton led his formation of thirty Mustangs into cloud with a faulty artificial horizon in his plane, with the result that he and his comrades, who were following his lead, became badly disorientated and were fortunate to avoid collision; RAAF historian Alan Stephens considered this a not-atypical example of the casual attitude to flying safety exhibited at the time by the veteran pilots of World War II.\n\nReturning to Australia in November 1949, Eaton became Deputy Director of Training at the Department of Air, Canberra, where he remained until 1951. Later that year, he was appointed Officer Commanding No. 78 (Fighter) Wing at RAAF Base Williamtown, New South Wales. He had reverted to a substantive rank of wing commander since leaving Japan, as the RAAF shrank dramatically with demobilisation and many senior officers lost the temporary or acting ranks they had gained in wartime. On 15 September, he landed a Vampire jet fighter at Point Cook with one flat tyre and one wheel retracted, after its undercarriage had become jammed. The plane skidded off the runway but Eaton was able to walk away, reportedly remarking \"Well, I didn't wreck it\". He married Josephine Rumbles at Toorak Presbyterian Church in Melbourne on 10 May 1952; the couple later had a son and two daughters. Following Britain's request to the Australian government for a Commonwealth garrison in the Mediterranean, in July 1952 Eaton led No. 78 Wing on deployment to RAF Hal Far near Valletta, Malta, where its combat squadrons, Nos. 75 and 76, were equipped with leased Vampire FB9s. As the overseas posting was for a minimum of two years, his new bride and the families of other staff were permitted to make the journey as well. The Australian airmen participated in many NATO exercises while stationed at Malta, and one year took first and second place in the Middle Eastern Gunnery Contest for the \"Imshi\" Mason Cup. Promoted to the substantive rank of group captain on 1 January 1953, Eaton was granted command of RAF Ta'Kali when the wing transferred there from Hal Far in June.\nCompleting his tour with No. 78 Wing in mid-1954, Eaton joined Air Vice Marshal Alister Murdoch on an international mission to examine potential new fighter, bomber, transport and training aircraft for the RAAF. The team's report advocated the F-104 Starfighter as a replacement for the CAC Sabre, as well as nuclear-capable British V-bomber strike aircraft to augment Australia's Canberra bombers, and C-130 Hercules transports to replace the C-47 Dakota. While the proposals for V-bombers and the F-104 were not taken up, the Australian Government acquired the C-130 in 1958. Described as second only to the General Dynamics F-111C as the \"most significant\" purchase by the RAAF, the Hercules gave the Air Force its first strategic airlift capability, which in years to come would provide a \"lifeline\" to Australian forces deployed to Malaya, Vietnam, and other parts of the South-West Pacific. The mission also recommended the locally built Vampire T35 as a jet trainer for No. 1 Applied Flying Training School; sixty-nine were later delivered by the de Havilland factory in Bankstown, New South Wales. Eaton served as RAAF Director of Operations during 1955–56, and as Officer Commanding RAAF Base Williamtown and Commandant of the co-located School of Land-Air Warfare from March 1957 until February 1959. He was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the 1959 Queen's Birthday Honours.\n\nFollowing his tour at Williamtown, Eaton spent two years as Director of Joint Services Plans before attending the Imperial Defence College, London in 1961. Raised to air commodore, he was appointed Director-General Operational Requirements in 1962. Concurrently he became an Honorary Aide-de-Camp to Queen Elizabeth II, in which capacity he served until 1965. As the Army reorganised to deal with Australia's increasing commitments to the Vietnam War in the mid-1960s, it sought to procure a dozen twin-engined aircraft of a size hitherto only operated by the RAAF, and also proposed a joint review of close air support. RAAF senior command chose to deal with the Army's proposals by ignoring them. As Director-General of Operational Requirements, Eaton argued that if the RAAF did not more fully satisfy the ground support requirements of the Army, then the Army itself would seek to take control of this sphere of operations, undermining the RAAF's position as the main provider of Australia's air power. Pointing out to the Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Murdoch, that it was \"clearly the Army's intention to have complete command and control\" of air-to-ground assets, he warned of a parallel situation in America, where the US Army was looking to take over all battlefield air support in response to the USAF failing to keep up to date in the provision of basic attack aircraft. The RAAF's refusal to adequately deal with its ground support responsibilities led to long-running inter-service enmity, and contributed to the Australian government's decision twenty years later to transfer control of battlefield helicopters to the Army. At this time, Eaton also led the acquisition team that selected the Macchi MB-326 as the RAAF's new jet trainer, as it met all requirements, could be licence-built in Australia, and was relatively inexpensive. The first of ninety-seven was delivered by the Commonwealth Aircraft Corporation in 1967.\n\nPromoted to air vice marshal, Eaton became Deputy Chief of the Air Staff in 1966. In December that year, with Australian Caribou transports and Iroquois helicopters already serving in Vietnam, Eaton advocated building up the RAAF's \"sharp end\" there, increasing air support for ground troops. He preferred deploying Sabre or Mirage fighters rather than the mooted Canberra bombers, which he saw as more suitable for a strategic role. Above all, he accepted the \"domino theory\" and believed that if Australia did not aid South Vietnam, \"we'd lose the lot\". In the event, Canberras were despatched rather than fighters. In 1967, Eaton became the last AOC of No. 224 Group RAF under the British Far East Air Force (FEAF) in Singapore, as permanent squadrons were dropped from its strength. This reorganisation led to him taking over as chief of staff at Headquarters FEAF the following year. In this capacity, he was appointed a Companion of the Order of the Bath (CB) in the 1969 Queen's Birthday Honours.\n\nReturning to Australia, Eaton became Air Member for Personnel (AMP) in October 1969. As AMP, he sat on the Air Board, the RAAF's controlling body, consisting of its most senior officers and chaired by the Chief of the Air Staff. In January 1973, he was appointed AOC Operational Command (now Air Command). He served in this position until retirement, his tenure witnessing the introduction of the F-111C swing-wing bomber to service in Australia, when the first machines touched down at RAAF Base Amberley, Queensland, in July. Leaving the military on 15 December 1973, Eaton became Regional Executive for Rolls Royce Australia in Canberra. He remained with the company for the next decade, continuing to live in Canberra until his death on 17 October 1992, at the age of 75. In 1996, his widow Josephine donated funding for the Air Vice-Marshal B.A. Eaton 'Airman of the Year' Award to the RAAF, to annually recognise \"significant contribution to both the Service and the community\" by airmen and airwoman ranked corporal or below.\n\n"}
{"id": "31743501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31743501", "title": "Businessman (film)", "text": "Businessman (film)\n\nBusinessman, also known as The Businessman, is a 2012 Indian Telugu-language action film written and directed by Puri Jagannadh. Based on a concept by Ram Gopal Varma and produced by R. R. Venkat under the banner R. R. Movie Makers, the film features Mahesh Babu and Kajal Aggarwal in the lead roles, with Nassar, Prakash Raj, Sayaji Shinde, Raza Murad and Brahmaji in supporting roles.\n\nMahesh plays Vijay Surya, who later becomes Surya Bhai a ruthless man who comes to Mumbai from South India aspiring to become a mafia don. Surya arrives just as the Mumbai police declare the end of the \"Mafia Raj\" and begins his journey by helping a local politician and trapping the city commissioner's daughter, only to fall in love with her. He eventually emerges as the biggest mafia leader of Mumbai and kills a national politician Jai Dev in retribution for cheating and murdering his parents.\n\nS. Thaman composed the film's music and Shyam K. Naidu was the film's cinematographer. The film was made with a budget of 400 million and was launched formally on 15 August 2011 at Hyderabad. Principal photography began on 2 September 2011 and was shot in Hyderabad, Mumbai and Goa. A few song sequences were shot in Bangkok. Filming ended on 10 December 2011 in 74 working days, one of the shortest periods in which a Telugu film has been shot.\n\nReleased during Sankranthi on 13 January 2012, the film received mixed feedback from critics, but was commercially successful. It grossed more than 550 million and collected a distributor share of 448 million, eventually becoming one of the highest grossing Telugu films of 2012.\n\nMumbai Police commissioner Ajay Bhardwaj announces the end of the \"Mafia Raj\" in the city, to try to bring peace to the city's streets. However, a ruthless south Indian named Vijay Surya comes to the city, aspiring to be the most powerful Mafia Don there. Staying in Dharavi with his friend, he is introduced to a local politician Laalu, who is in trouble and offers him help. He recruits a portion of the gangsters and criminals living in Mumbai led by Naseer to work under him. Surya's henchman Shakeel manages to kill a witness of Laalu's crimes in the jail where he is kept in, winning Laalu's friendship.\n\nAfter this, Surya promises to clear the debts of Dharavi locals so that their houses will not be repossessed. His men rob the original copies of the loan documents in the local branch of Bank of Maharashtra and destroy the bank records. Surya slowly becomes both popular and feared as an extortionist, while Dharavi locals praise him as their saviour. Surya is aware of Bhardwaj's intentions. To safeguard himself, he traps Bhardwaj's daughter Chitra, a keen painter, by posing as a NRI businessman interested in arts. They both fall in love. However, by the time Surya realises that he truly loves her, Bhardwaj has exposed Surya's real nature to Chitra which makes her hate him. Surya is immediately arrested.\n\nSurya is released after manipulating Bhardwaj by having his associates kidnap Chitra. He promises to leave crime behind him and asks Bhardwaj for permission to marry Chitra. When they refuse his proposal, he insists to Bhardwaj that he will set up a business which is untouchable by the police, and will eventually marry Chitra. Surya sets up a company named \"Surya Exports & Imports\" as a front for the organised crime that they indulge in. He plans to grow his organised crime network all over India and begins to set up branch offices for \"Surya Exports & Imports\" in all major cities, towns and villages all over India. He recruits local gangsters for staff and begins to forcibly collect a two percent tax on every contract made in that area. Surya amasses a huge fortune, making him a billionaire, and during the inauguration of his \"Business Bank\", he reveals his thirst for power to Bhardwaj. He claims that the crime rate dropped significantly after he started to recruit all the gangsters. He also states that he wants to rid India of crime and help the needy.\n\nNext, Surya helps Laalu to become the Mayor of Mumbai by defeating Arun Ghokle, endorsed by Ghanapuleti Jai Dev, a powerful national politician who wants to become the new prime minister of India in the upcoming elections. Ghokle then reveals Jai Dev's illegal scams to Bhardwaj, after which he is killed by Jai Dev. After the meeting, Surya comes to know that Jai Dev is planning to kill Bhardwaj and Chitra. He reaches Chitra's house and saves her but fails to save Bhardwaj. Chitra is devastated and Surya reveals to her that he was an American-born Indian who lost his philanthropist NRI father and mother at an early age; they were cheated and killed by Jai Dev. This incident and the peoples' attitudes towards orphans while growing up made him hate that society.\n\nSurya shifts his attention towards the upcoming Indian parliament elections and meets Guru Govind Patel, the head of the opposition party through Laalu. He makes a deal with him, offering 350 billion for election campaigning and also promises him that he would make him the prime minister of India. Surya spends millions on every constituency in India, making Jai Dev unable to contest in the elections by revealing his illegal affairs. Jai Dev kidnaps Chitra to seek revenge on Surya, who fights with Jai Dev's henchmen. He is injured, but eventually kills Jai Dev, saving Chitra and proposing to her for the last time. It is revealed at the end that Surya successfully installed Guru Govind Patel as the Prime Minister of India.\n\nSurya is last seen recuperating in a hospital in the company of Chitra, who accepts his proposal.\n\n\n\nRam Gopal Varma signed Suriya for a multilingual crime film titled \"The Businessman\" in May 2010, to be directed by Puri Jagannadh simultaneously in Telugu, Tamil and Hindi. The film's protagonist was supposed to be a south Indian coming to Mumbai and setting up a crime business using tact and intelligence to emerge as one of the biggest gangsters. The film's production was expected to begin in October 2010 once Suriya completed his part in \"7aum Arivu\" (2011) and was scheduled for release in the summer of 2011. Jagannadh stated in an interview that principal photography would begin in September 2010. It was speculated that the film was to be based on the real-life story of a gangster who had moved from the Cuddalore district of Tamil Nadu to Mumbai in the late 1960s.\n\nThe film was revived later by R. R. Venkat later in January 2011 with a tagline \"Guns do not need agreements\". He signed Mahesh Babu as the protagonist who worked with Jagannadh in the past for \"Pokiri\" (2006). Venkat added that the film would be produced under the banner R. R. Movie Makers. Jagannadh completed the final draft of the film's script on 25 July 2011 during his stay at Bangkok, adding that he was inspired by Ram Gopal Varma. He stated that the pending pre-production work would begin in Hyderabad after a week. The film had its formal launch on 15 August 2011 with a small pooja ceremony conducted at Hyderabad. Shyam K. Naidu and S. Thaman were confirmed as the film's cinematographer and music director respectively.\n\nMahesh received the film's script while dubbing for \"Dookudu\" (2011), but due to that commitment took ten days to finish reading the script. He said in an interview that he could maintain the consistency in the character only because of the fewer working days. Jagannadh did not cast Brahmanandam and Ali because of Mahesh's specific characterisation; he added that Mahesh's voice had changed when compared to his performance in \"Pokiri\". Mahesh also convinced Jagannadh to give up smoking, since he himself was trying to give up after being a chain smoker.\n\nShruti Haasan was initially considered for the female lead role after her performance in her Telugu film debut, \"Anaganaga O Dheerudu\" (2011). However, Kajal Aggarwal was signed as the female lead later in May 2011, marking her first collaboration with both Mahesh and Jagannadh respectively. She was paid 10 million for this film. Jagannadh confirmed reports stating Mahesh and Kajal sharing a kiss in the film, adding that he retained them after Mahesh's wife Namrata Shirodkar approved it. It was reportedly the first onscreen kiss for both of them. Kajal explained that it was not supposed to be sensual, but was meant to portray the conflict between two characters, and added that it was shot \"aesthetically\" by Jagannadh.\n\nPrakash Raj, Nassar, Sayaji Shinde, Dharmavarapu Subramanyam, Brahmaji and Bandla Ganesh among others were cast for key supporting roles. Hansika Motwani was rumoured to be a part of the film's cast in late August 2011 but not immediately confirmed. In mid October 2011, Hansika reportedly agreed to perform an item number in the film. She later dismissed those reports as baseless rumours, claiming that other acting assignments keep her away from accepting.\n\nActress Shweta Bhardwaj was therefore selected to perform the item number instead. She was friends with Jagannadh, and he approached her for this song during the film's shoot at Mumbai, saying that the song suited her and her personality as a dancer. She also tried to understand the meaning of the lyrics while dancing. Bhardwaj was afraid of dancing, suspecting a possible sprain, and found the costumes uneasy, but had to continue upon the choreographer's insistence. Canadian-born Indian actress Ayesha Shiva was signed to play Kajal's friend in the film.\n\nThe film was planned to be shot entirely in and around Mumbai and Jagannadh searched for distinct localities there which suit the script's backdrops. Jagannadh told Venkat that he needed 75 working days to complete the film's shoot. He planned to start with Mahesh in the first week of September 2011 and established this schedule before finishing in the first week of January 2012. Filming began on 2 September 2011 at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Hyderabad.\n\nThe second schedule began at Mumbai from 20 September 2011 and Mahesh confirmed in an interview that it would last until 5 December 2011. An action sequence choreographed by Vijayan was shot in mid October 2011 and it was announced that the film's climax would be shot in and around Goa from 27 October 2011. The song \"We Want Bad Boys\" was shot in late October 2011. At the same time, Jagannadh planned to shoot a couple of songs with Mahesh and Kajal in Spain during November 2011. The filming of the climax sequences featuring Mahesh, Prakash Raj and others was finished by 2 November 2011.\n\nAfter filming two songs in the districts of Krabi and Pattaya in Bangkok, the film's unit returned to Hyderabad on 2 December 2011 for completing patch work. The film's shooting was wrapped up on 10 December 2011 in 74 working days as expected. Jagannadh revealed in an interview that the film's length by the end of shoot was 84,000 feet as planned. He added that Mahesh and Kajal participated in the film's shoot for 65 and 30 days respectively.\n\nThe film's dubbing activities began on 15 December 2011 at Shabdalaya Studios in Hyderabad. The DTS mixing works were in progress in early January 2012. The Central Board of Film Certification passed the film with an 'A' certificate; board members found few of the film's dialogues offensive and potentially upsetting to the people of Mumbai.\n\nThe soundtrack consists of six songs composed by S. Thaman and written by Bhaskarabhatla Ravi Kumar. Aditya Music acquired the audio rights. The original along with both the dubbed versions of the soundtrack were released on 22 December 2011 at Shilpakala Vedika in Hyderabad. Na. Muthukumar and Kailas Rishi wrote the lyrics for the dubbed Tamil and Malayalam versions of the songs respectively. The soundtrack sold nearly 200,000 compact discs on the first day of its release itself.\n\nThe film was initially planned for a worldwide release on 11 January 2012. Hari Venkateswara Pictures acquired the film's overseas distribution rights and after requests by non-Telugu Mahesh fans, it was the first Telugu film to release with subtitles in overseas cinemas. The makers planned for a release in new international markets like Japan and Dubai to cash in on Mahesh's previous film, \"Dookudu\". The release was postponed by two days to 13 January 2012 due to post production delays. Two thousand screens across the world were booked for the film's initial release.\n\nIt was released to 92 screens across Hyderabad, breaking the previous record set by \"Oosaravelli\" (2011) which was released to 70 screens. Prasads IMAX screened 33 shows on the release day. The film's Tamil and Malayalam dubbed versions, also titled \"Businessman\", was released on 7 December 2012 to 200 screens across Tamil Nadu and 28 December 2012 respectively.\n\nS. Thaman was criticised for copying the tunes of the Italian partisan song \"Bella ciao\" for the song \"Pilla Chao\"and \"He Lives in You\", a song written and performed by Lebo M and his South African Choir for the album \"Rhythm of the Pride Lands\" (1995), for the song \"Chandamama\". \"Pilla Chao\" was one of the more successful songs on the soundtrack and many music lovers left angry comments about the plagiarism on the song's YouTube video.\n\nThe makers violated the rules of The Cinematograph Act, 1952 and the Central Board of Film Certification regarding the re-working of its title from \"The Businessman\" to \"Businessman\" after the board cleared the film with the former title. The Andhra Pradesh Film Chamber of Commerce cleared the registration of the film title as \"The Businessman\" on 1 January 2011 through a letter and was renewed up to 22 April 2012. The set of posters sent to the board for certification purpose carried the full title. The film was publicised without the definite article, which was also missing from the posters. Also the 'A' certification was omitted.\n\nAfter release, the film was criticised for the usage of curse-words by the protagonist and a few intimate sequences between the lead pair. The muting of a few dialogues and blurring of a few visuals by the board were criticised by viewers. Bajrang Dal lodged a complaint with Municipal police on 14 January 2012 stating that the lyrics of the song \"We love Bad Boys\" contained vulgar words and conveyed an unacceptable meaning for which they demanded action against Jagannadh. The police confirmed this and stated they would seek legal opinions for taking further action.\n\nAkhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad activists entered the Aradhana theatre at Tarnaka near Osmania University, and stopped a screening on 25 January 2012 at 11:30 AM. They stole the film's reels and ripped off the film's hoardings and flexies at the theatre, protesting a few dialogues which allegedly demeaned Rama and were anti-patriotic. They burnt the film's reels in front of Osmania Arts College in protest of the lyrics of the song \"We want Bad Boys\" alleging that the song was filled with abusive words. They also demanded a public apology by Mahesh and Jagannadh. Journalist Rohit Vats in his article \"Real and reel: How Telugu cinema celebrates stalking\" mentioned the sequences in \"Businessman\" quoting, \"The conversation between Mahesh Babu and Kajal Aggarwal in Businessman was termed vulgar but later it was accepted in the name of sarcasm. Basically, it was perceived as harmless teasing\".\n\nA first-look teaser of 41 seconds was released on 9 November 2011. The first-look poster featuring a still of Mahesh sitting in a chair and deeply thinking was revealed on 11 November 2011 (11.11.11), receiving a positive response. Two posters featuring Mahesh were unveiled on 5 and 11 December 2011. The theatrical trailer was attached to the prints of \"Panjaa\" (2011) to be screened in theatres from 9 December 2011.\n\nAs a part of the film's promotion, Aditya Music offered a range of ringtone packs. Contests were introduced where the winners won posters autographed by Mahesh, the film's tickets and soundtrack discs apart from others.\n\nJagannadh acquired the satellite rights of the film during his negotiations with the film's producers for 50 million. He wanted to rotate the film screening on various channels, at appropriate times, in a bid to gain more widespread viewership and recoup his investment. Studio N acquired the film's television broadcast rights in March 2012 for 66 million, which were later sold to Gemini TV. The film's DVD and Blu Ray discs were produced by Universal Home Entertainment and were released in May 2012.\n\nSuresh Krishnamoorthy of \"The Hindu\" called \"Businessman\" a \"wholesome package\" and a \"pure entertainer\", quoting \"Puri Jagannath has proved that he's still the director with the Midas touch with his latest release, \"Businessman\"\". Y. Sunita Chowdary, also from \"The Hindu\", wrote \"The \"Businessman\" has a mix of action, image, dialogue and montage but what makes it entertaining is that all the above quantities are inextricably bound and linked together at every level with an admirably tight script.\" She added that Jagannadh did not make any structural, technical or content errors, although the story was a regular one. Suresh Kavirayani of \"The Times of India\" gave the film 3.25 out of 5 stars and called the film an \"unpretentious entertainer that manages to strike the right balance\", which according to him, had enough in it to keep the viewers interested till the end despite not being a spectacular production.\n\nIndo-Asian News Service gave the film 3 out of 5 stars and called \"Businessman\" a film for Mahesh's fans and highlighted Mahesh's performance and Jagannadh's dialogues as the film's strong points. Another reviewer from IANS called the film \"senseless yet entertaining\" and stated \"Mahesh's dashing performance as a mafia kingpin with a hidden personal agenda is commendable and deserves high appreciation. \"Businessman\" may be perverse and appeal only to the masses, yet is a winner for unexplainable reasons.\" Radhika Rajamani of Rediff.com gave the film 2.5 out of 5 stars and opined that \"Businessman\" was an entertaining film if watched uncritically. She added \"There's no doubt that Puri Jagan has played to the gallery and kept the masses and Mahesh's image in mind while conceiving this film. It's just Mahesh all the way.\"\n\nSify felt that the film was strictly for Mahesh's fans but praised Jagannadh's work saying that the \"story sounds far fetched, demanding logic. The screenplay is a saving grace, which works like magic, making the audiences forget the monotony in between.\" The reviewer highlighted Mahesh's performance, the dialogues and the songs as the film's stronger elements. Ramchander of Oneindia Entertainment called \"Businessman\" a serious film with limited appeal, which might be enjoyed by Mahesh's fans but which would be an average for others. B. V. S. Prakash of \"Deccan Chronicle\" gave the film 2 out of 5 stars and stated \"\"Businessman\" is a typical Mahesh Babu film all the way, evoking laughs with comic one-liners and subtle expressions. However, his efforts could go in vain thanks to a contrived and highly exaggerated plot.\" IndiaGlitz called \"Businessman\" a \"Mahesh-Magnified film\" and stated \"It is clear that the director throws all logic to the winds in the hope that Mahesh the Prince and a few cheeky one-liners will salvage the film. There is so much meaningless lecturing in the movie in the form of the demented arguments that our hero employs in many a scene.\"\n\n\"Businessman\" opened to 85% occupancy in both single screens and multiplexes at AP/Nizam box office on its first day. It grossed approximately 187.35 million and collected a share of 137.8 million at the global box office on its first day creating an all-time record in terms of opening day collections. The film collected a distributor share of 120 million in AP/Nizam box office, 10 million in Karnataka, 7.5 million together in Tamil Nadu, Orissa and North India respectively and 0.3 million together in the United States, United Kingdom, Australia and Japan on its first day.\n\nThe film collected approximately 418.35 million by the end of its first week at the global box office and was declared a blockbuster. The film completed a 50-day run in 350 centres on 3 March 2012, and a 100-day run in undisclosed number of centres on 21 April 2012. The film collected a distributor share of 448 million and grossed over 550 million in its lifetime at the global box office.\n\nAfter Mahesh refused to perform in the Hindi remake of this film, Jagannadh approached Ranbir Kapoor in late January 2012 and arranged a special screening for him. Ram Gopal Varma confirmed in March 2012 that he and Jagannadh would remake the film in Hindi with Abhishek Bachchan playing the role of Mahesh in the original. The film was remade in Bengali as \"\" in 2013 by choreographer-turned-director Baba Yadav with Jeet and Subhasree Ganguly reprising the roles of Mahesh and Kajal from the original respectively.\n\nJagannadh expressed interest in making a sequel of the film after the response to the original on its first day and planned to begin work on the same from late 2012. Mahesh too confirmed the same in late January 2012 during the scripting stage of the sequel titled \"Businessman 2\". It was planned as a bilingual film to be shot in Telugu and Hindi simultaneously. Ram Gopal Varma also expressed interest after listening to the script and felt that the sequel would do much better business that the original. However, Jagannadh shelved the sequel in early August 2012 and opted to direct Mahesh in an original film.\n"}
{"id": "1000153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1000153", "title": "Castle Walk", "text": "Castle Walk\n\nCastle Walk is a dance originated and made famous by Vernon and Irene Castle. The Castle Walk became popular through its introduction into the Tango.\n\nIn this dance, the man continually goes forward and the lady backward. In order that the lady may be properly guided about the room, the man's arm encircles her just under her arm, while her left hand rests on the man's right arm. The position of the lady's right arm and the man's left arm is high, with their hands clasped, see the illustration.\nThe man starts forward with his left foot and the lady backward with her right, simply walking with gliding steps keeping on the toes, one count of the music to each step. This step is continued to the end of the room, where a large circle is begun, which is gradually made smaller and smaller, until it is ended by whirling completely around three times, to three counts of the music and then dip.\n\nThe Castle Walk may be varied by describing the figure eight or zig-zag instead of the large circle.\n\nTo make the three whirls is rather a difficult matter, as it must be done very rapidly to accomplish\na complete revolution to one beat of the music, but with a little practice it is soon learned.\n\nTroy Kinney describes the Castle Walk as part of One-Step as follows: \nThis is a walking step\nof direct advance and retreat, not used to move to the\nside. The couple are in closed position, the woman,\ntherefore, stepping backward as the man steps forward,\nand vice versa. The advancing foot is planted in fourth\nposition, the knee straight, the toe down so that the ball\nof the foot strikes the floor first. The walk presents an\nappearance of strutting, although the shoulders are held\nlevel, and the body firm; a sharp twist that punctuates\neach step is effected by means of pivoting on the supporting\nfoot. The shoulder and hip movements that originally\ncharacterised the \"trot\" are no longer practiced.\n\n"}
{"id": "2421114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2421114", "title": "Contesting", "text": "Contesting\n\nContesting (also known as \"radiosport\") is a competitive activity pursued by amateur radio operators. In a contest, an amateur radio station, which may be operated by an individual or a team, seeks to contact as many other amateur radio stations as possible in a given period of time and exchange information. Rules for each competition define the amateur radio bands, the mode of communication that may be used, and the kind of information that must be exchanged. The contacts made during the contest contribute to a score by which stations are ranked. Contest sponsors publish the results in magazines and on web sites.\n\nContesting grew out of other amateur radio activities in the 1920s and 1930s. As intercontinental communications with amateur radio became more common, competitions were formed to challenge stations to make as many contacts as possible with amateur radio stations in other countries. Contests were also formed to provide opportunities for amateur radio operators to practice their message handling skills, used for routine or emergency communications across long distances. Over time, the number and variety of radio contests has increased, and many amateur radio operators today pursue the sport as their primary amateur radio activity.\n\nThere is no international authority or governance organization for this sport. Each competition is sponsored separately and has its own set of rules. Contest rules do not necessarily require entrants to comply with voluntary international band plans. Participants must, however, adhere to the amateur radio regulations of the country in which they are located. Because radio contests take place using amateur radio, competitors are generally forbidden by their national amateur radio regulations from being compensated financially for their activity. High levels of amateur radio contest activity, and contesters failing to comply with international band plans, can result in friction between contest participants and other amateur radio users of the same radio spectrum.\n\nRadio contests are principally sponsored by amateur radio societies, radio clubs, or radio enthusiast magazines. These organizations publish the rules for the event, collect the operational logs from all stations that operate in the event, cross-check the logs to generate a score for each station, and then publish the results in a magazine, in a society journal, or on a web site. Because the competitions are between stations licensed in the Amateur Radio Service (with the exception of certain contests which sponsor awards for shortwave listeners), which prohibits the use of radio frequencies for pecuniary interests, there are no professional radio contests or professional contesters, and any awards granted by the contest sponsors are typically limited to paper certificates, plaques, or trophies.\n\nDuring a radio contest, each station attempts to establish two-way contact with other licensed amateur radio stations and exchange information specific to that contest. The information exchanged could include an R-S-T system signal report, a name, the national region, i.e. a province or US state, in which the station is located, the geographic zone in which the station is located, the Maidenhead grid locator in which the station is located, the age of the operator, or an incrementing serial number. For each contact, the radio operator must correctly receive the call sign of the other station, as well as the information in the \"exchange\", and record this data, along with the time of the contact and the band or frequency that was used to make the contact, in a log.\n\nA contest score is computed based on a formula defined for that contest. A typical formula assigns some number of points for each contact, and a \"multiplier\" based on some aspect of the exchanged information. Often, rules for contests held on the VHF amateur radio bands assign a new multiplier for each new Maidenhead grid locator in the log, rewarding the competitors that make contacts with other stations in the most locations. Many HF contests reward stations with a new multiplier for contacts with stations in each country - often based on the \"entities\" listed on the DXCC country list maintained by the American Radio Relay League (\"ARRL\"). Depending on the rules for a particular contest, each multiplier may count once on each radio band or only once during the contest, regardless of the radio band on which the multiplier was first earned. The points earned for each contact can be a fixed amount per contact, or can vary based on a geographical relationship such as whether or not the communications crossed a continental or political boundary. Some contests, such as the Stew Perry Top Band Distance Challenge, award points are scaled to the distance separating the two stations. Most contests held in Europe on the VHF and microwave bands award 1 point per kilometre of distance between the stations making each contact.\n\nAfter they are received by the contest sponsor, logs are checked for accuracy. Points can be deducted or credit and multipliers lost if there are errors in the log data for a given contact. Depending on the scoring formula used, the resulting scores of any particular contest can be either a small number of points or in the millions of points. Most contests offer multiple entry categories, and declare winners in each category. Some contests also declare regional winners for specific geographic subdivisions, such as continents, countries, U.S. states, or Canadian provinces.\n\nThe most common entry category is the single operator category and variations thereof, in which only one individual operates a radio station for the entire duration of the contest. Subdivisions of the single operator category are often made based on the highest power output levels used during the contest, such as a QRP category for single operator stations using no more than five watts of output power, or a High Power category that allows stations to transmit with as much output power as their license permits. Multi-operator categories allow for teams of individuals to operate from a single station, and may either allow for a single radio transmitter or several to be in use simultaneously on different amateur radio bands. Many contests also offer team or club competitions in which the scores of multiple radio stations are combined and ranked.\n\nA wide variety of amateur radio contests are sponsored every year. Contest sponsors have crafted competitive events that serve to promote a variety of interests and appeal to diverse audiences. Radio contests typically take place on weekends or local weeknight evenings, and can last from a few hours to forty-eight hours in duration. The rules of each contest will specify which stations are eligible for participation, the radio frequency bands on which they may operate, the communications modes they may employ, which other amateur radio stations they may contact, and the specific time period during which they may make contacts for the contest.\n\nSome contests restrict participation to stations in a particular geographic area, such as a continent or country. Contests like the European HF Championship aim to foster competition between stations located in one particular part of the world, specifically Europe. There are contests in which any amateur radio station worldwide may participate and make contact with any other stations for contest credit. The CQ World Wide DX Contest permits stations to contact other stations anywhere else on the planet, and attracts tens of thousands of participating stations each year. In large contests the number of people taking part is a significant percentage of radio amateurs active on the HF bands, although they in themselves are a small percentage of the total amateurs in the world.\n\nThere are regional contests that invite all stations around the world to participate, but restrict which stations each competitor may contact. For example, Japanese stations in the Japan International DX Contest (sponsored by \"Five Nine\" magazine) may only contact other stations located outside Japan and vice versa. There are also contests that limit participation to just the stations located in a particular continent or country, even though those stations may work any other station for points.\n\nAll contests use one or more amateur radio bands on which competing stations may make two-way contacts. HF contests use one or more of the 160 meter, 80 Meter, 40 Meter, 20 Meter, 15 Meter, and 10 Meter bands. VHF contests use all the amateur radio bands above 50 MHz. Some contests permit activity on all HF or all VHF bands, and may offer points for contacts and multipliers on each band. Other contests may permit activity on all bands but restrict stations to making only one contact with each other station, regardless of band, or may limit multipliers to once per contest instead of once per band. Most VHF contests in North America are similar to the ARRL June VHF QSO Party, and allow contacts on all the amateur radio bands 50 MHz or higher in frequency. Most VHF contests in the United Kingdom, however, are restricted to one amateur radio band at a time. An HF contest with worldwide participation that restricts all contest activity to just one band is the ARRL 10 Meter Contest.\n\nContests exist for enthusiasts of all modes. Some contests are restricted to just CW emissions using the Morse code for communications, some are restricted to telephony modes and spoken communications, and some employ digital emissions modes such as RTTY or PSK31. Many popular contests are offered on two separate weekends, one for CW and one for telephony, with all the same rules. The CQ World Wide WPX Contest, for example, is held as a phone-only competition one weekend in March, and a CW-only competition one weekend in May. Some contests, especially those restricted to a single radio frequency band, allow the competing stations to use several different emissions modes. VHF contests typically permit any mode of emission, including some specialty digital modes designed specifically for use on those bands. As with the other variations in contest rules and participation structure, some contest stations and operators choose to specialize in contests on certain modes and may not participate seriously in contests on other modes. Large, worldwide contests on the HF bands can be scheduled for up to forty-eight hours in duration. Typically, these large worldwide contests run from 0000 UTC on Saturday morning until 2359 UTC Sunday evening. Regional and smaller contests often are scheduled for a shorter duration, with twenty-four, twelve, and four hours being common variations.\n\nMany contests employ a concept of \"off time\" in which a station may operate only a portion of the available time. For example, the ARRL November Sweepstakes is thirty hours long, but each station may be on the air for no more than twenty-four hours. The off-time requirement forces competitive stations to decide when to be on the air making contacts and when to be off the air, and adds a significant element of strategy to the competition. Although common in the 1930s, only a small number of contests today take place over multiple weekends. These competitions are called \"cumulative\" contests, and are generally limited to the microwave frequency bands. Short \"sprint\" contests lasting only a few hours have been popular among contesters that prefer a fast-paced environment, or who cannot devote an entire weekend to a radio contest. A unique feature of the North American Sprint contest is that the operator is required to change frequency after every other contact, introducing another operational skills challenge. Whatever the length of the contest, the top operators are frequently those that can best maintain focus on the tasks of contest operating throughout the event.\n\nSome contests, such as the Maine 2 Meter FM Simplex Challenge sponsored by the Wireless Society of Southern Maine, offer newly licensed hams the ability to take part in contesting for the first time, by restricting contacts to a single VHF band, and providing entry categories for anything from a handheld radio to a fully equipped contest station.\n\nThe wide variety of contests attracts a large variety of contesters and contest stations. The rules and structure of a particular contest can determine the strategies used by competitors to maximize the number of contacts made and multipliers earned. Some stations and operators specialize in certain contests, and either rarely operate in others, or compete in them with less seriousness. As with other sports, contest rules evolve over time, and rule changes are one of the primary sources of controversy in the sport.\n\nThe origin of contesting can be traced to the Trans-Atlantic Tests of the early 1920s, when amateur radio operators first attempted to establish long distance radiocommunications across the Atlantic Ocean on the short wave amateur radio frequencies. Even after the first two-way communications between North America and Europe were established in 1923, these tests continued to be annual events at which more and more stations were successful in establishing two-way contacts over greater and greater distances. In 1927, the American Radio Relay League, which had been principal in organizing and publicizing these tests, proposed a new format for the annual event, encouraging stations to make as many two-way contacts with stations in other countries as possible. The 1928 International Relay Party, as the event was renamed, was the first organized amateur radio contest. The International Relay Party was an immediate success, and was sponsored annually by the ARRL from 1927 through 1935. In 1936, the contest name changed to the ARRL International DX Contest, the name under which it is known today.\n\nTo complement the burst of activity and interest being generated in DX communications by the popularity of the International Relay Parties, the ARRL adopted a competitive operating format for events designed for non-international contacts. The first ARRL All-Sections Sweepstakes Contest was started in 1930. The Sweepstakes required a more complicated exchange of information for each two-way contact that was adapted from the message header structure used by the National Traffic System. The competition was immediately popular, both with those operators active in the NTS who participated as an opportunity to gauge the merits of their station and operating skills, and among those for whom the competitive excitement of the event was the primary attraction. The contest, sponsored annually by the ARRL, became known as the ARRL November Sweepstakes in 1962.\n\nAnother important innovation in early contesting was the development of \"Field Day\" operating events. The earliest known organized field day activity was held in Great Britain in 1930, and was soon emulated by small events through Europe and North America. The first ARRL International Field Day was held in July 1933, and publicized through the ARRL's membership journal \"QST\". Field day events were promoted as an opportunity for radio amateurs to operate from portable locations, in environments that simulate what might be encountered during emergency or disaster relief situations. Field day events have traditionally carried the same general operating and scoring structures as other contests, but the emphasis on emergency readiness and capability has historically outweighed the competitive nature of these events.\n\nModern contests draw upon the heritage of DX communications, traffic handling, and communications readiness. Since 1928, the number and variety of competitive amateur radio operating events have increased. In 1934, contests were sponsored by radio societies in Australia, Canada, Poland, and Spain, and the ARRL sponsored a new contest specifically for the ten meter amateur radio band. By the end of 1937, contests were also being sponsored in Brazil, France, Germany, Great Britain, Hungary, Ireland, and New Zealand. The first VHF contest was the ARRL VHF Sweepstakes held in 1948, and the first RTTY contest was sponsored by the RTTY Society of Southern California in 1957. The first publication dedicated exclusively to the sport, the \"National Contest Journal\", began circulation in the United States in 1973. The IARU HF World Championship, a worldwide contest sponsored by the International Amateur Radio Union, was known as the IARU Radiosport Championship from its inception in 1977 until the name of the contest changed in 1986. Recognizing the vitality and maturity of the sport, \"CQ Amateur Radio\" magazine established the Contest Hall of Fame in 1986. By the turn of the century, contesting had become an established worldwide sport, with tens of thousands of active competitors, connected not just through their on air activities, but with specialist web sites, journals, and conventions.\n\nWithout a single worldwide organizing body or authority for the sport, there has never been a world ranking system by which contesters could compare themselves. The vast differences contesters face in the locations from which they operate contests, and the effect that location has on both radio propagation and the proximity to major populations of amateur radio operators also conspired to make comparisons of the top performers in the sport difficult. The first \"face to face\" World Radiosport Team Championship event was held in July, 1990 in Seattle, Washington, United States, and was an effort to overcome some of these issues by inviting the top contesters from around the world to operate a single contest from similar stations in one compact geographic area. Twenty-two teams of two operators each represented fifteen countries, and included some top competitors from the Soviet Union and nations of the former Eastern Bloc for whom the trip was their first to a western nation. Subsequent WRTC events have been held in 1996 (San Francisco, California, United States), 2000 (Bled, Slovenia), 2002 (Helsinki, Finland), and 2006 (Florianópolis, Brazil). The closest thing to a world championship in the sport of contesting, WRTC 2010 took place in Moscow, Russia. The 2014 event will by hosted in New England.\n\nThere have been controversies among amateur operators over the impact of dense contest traffic on the popular HF bands, the use of packet cluster systems, log editing, rare station QSYs and other techniques.\n\nThe scale of activity varies from contest to contest. The largest contests are the annual DX contests that allow worldwide participation. Many of these DX contests have been held annually for fifty years or more, and have devoted followings. Newer contests, those that intentionally restrict participation based on geography, and those that are shorter in duration tend to have fewer participating stations and attract more specialized operators and teams. Over time, contests that fail to attract enough entrants will be abandoned by their sponsor, and new contests will be proposed and sponsored to meet the evolving interests of amateur radio operators.\n\nIn a specialised contest in the microwave frequency bands, where only a handful of radio amateurs have the technical skills to construct the necessary equipment, a few contacts just a few kilometers away may be enough to win. In the most popular VHF contests, a well-equipped station in a densely populated region like Central Europe can make over 1,000 contacts on two meters in twenty-four hours. In the CQ World Wide DX Contest, the world's largest HF contest, leading multi-operator stations on phone and CW can make up to 25,000 contacts in a forty-eight-hour period, while even single operators with world-class stations in rare locations have been known to exceed 10,000 contacts, an average of over three per minute, every minute. Over 30,000 amateur radio operators participated in the phone weekend of the 2000 CQ World Wide DX Contest, and the top-scoring single operator station that year, located in the Galápagos Islands, made over 9,000 contacts. Other HF contests are not as large, and some specialty events, such as those for QRP enthusiasts, can attract no more than a few dozen competitors.\n\nThe geographic location of a station can impact its potential performance in radio contests. In almost all contests it helps to be in a rare location close to a major population center. Because the scoring formula in most contests uses the number of different locations contacted (such as countries, states or grid locators) as a multiplier, contacts with stations in rare locations are in high demand. In contests on the VHF and higher frequency bands, having a location at a high altitude with unobstructed line of sight in all directions is also a major advantage. With range limited to around 1000 kilometers in normal radio propagation conditions, a location on high ground close to a major metropolitan area is an often unbeatable advantage in VHF contests. In the large international HF DX contests, stations in the Caribbean Sea and the North Atlantic Ocean, close to Europe and eastern North America with their high densities of active contest stations, are frequently the winners. Aruba, Curaçao, the Canary Islands, the Cape Verde Islands, Madeira Island, coastal Morocco and the islands of Trinidad and Tobago have been the sites of some of the most famous radio contesting victories in the large worldwide contests. Competition between stations in large countries, such as Canada, Russia, or the United States can be greatly affected by the geographic locations of each station. Because of these variations, some stations may specialize in only those contests where they are not at a disadvantage, or may measure their own success against only nearby rivals.\n\nMany radio amateurs are happy to contest from home, often with relatively low output power and simple antennas. Some of these operators at modest home stations operate competitively and others are simply on the air to give away some points to serious stations or to chase some unusual propagation. More serious radio contesters will spend significant sums of money and invest a lot of time building a potentially winning station, whether at home, a local mountain top, or in a distant country. Operators without the financial resources to build their own station establish relationships with those that do and \"guest operate\" at other stations during contests. Contesting is often combined with a DX-pedition, where amateur radio operators travel to a location where amateur radio activity is infrequent or uncommon.\n\nSeveral contests are designed to encourage outdoor operations, and are known as field days. The motivating purpose of these events is to prepare operators for emergency readiness, but many enjoy the fun of operating in the most basic of circumstances. The rules for most field day events require or strongly incent participating stations to use generator or battery power, and temporary antennas. This can create a more level playing field, as all stations are constructed in a similar manner.\n\nContacts between stations in a contest are often brief. A typical exchange between two stations on voice — in this case between a station in England and one in New Zealand in the CQ World Wide DX Contest — might proceed as follows:\n\nOn Morse code, suitable well-known abbreviations are used to keep the contact as brief as possible. Skilled contesters can maintain a \"rate\" over four contacts per minute on Morse code, or up to ten contacts per minute on voice during peak propagation periods, using this short format. The peak rate of contacts that can be made during contests that employ longer exchanges with more information that must be sent, received, and acknowledged, will be necessarily lower.\n\nMost serious competitive stations log their contest contacts using contest logging software, although some continue to use paper and pencil. There are many different software logging programs written specifically for radio contesting. Computer logging programs can handle many additional duties besides simply recording the log data; they can keep a running score based upon the formula of the contest, track which available multipliers have been \"worked\" and which have not, and provide the operator with visual clues about how many contacts are being made on which bands. Some contest software even provide a means to control the station equipment via computer, retrieve data from the radio and send pre-recorded Morse code, voice or digital messages. After the conclusion of a contest, each station must submit its operational log to the contest sponsor. Many sponsors accept logs by e-mail, by upload on web sites, or even by postal mail.\n\nOnce a contest sponsor receives all the logs from the competitors, the logs undergo a process known as \"cross-checking.\" In cross-checking, the contest sponsor will match up the contacts recorded in the logs and look for errors or omissions. Most contests enforce stiff points penalties for inaccuracies in the log, which means that the need for speed in operation must be balanced against the requirement for accuracy. It is not uncommon for a station to lead in points at the end of the contest, but slip behind a more accurate competitor after the cross-checking process has assessed penalties. Some contest sponsors provide custom log checking reports to participating stations that offer details about the errors in their log and how they were penalized.\n\nMost contests are sponsored by organizations that either publish a membership journal, or sell a radio enthusiast magazine as their business. The results of radio contest events are printed in these publications, and often include an article describing the event and highlighting the victors. Contest results articles might also include photographs of radio stations and operators in the contest, and a detailed listing of the scores of every participating station. In addition to publication in magazines and journals, many contest sponsors also publish results on web sites, often in a format similar to that found in print. Some contest sponsors offer the raw score results data in a format that enables searching or other data analysis. The American Radio Relay League, for example, offers this raw line score data to any of its members, and offers the summary report of the winners and the line score data in a non-searchable format to anyone through their web site.\n\nBecause radio contests take place using amateur radio, competitors are forbidden by regulation from being compensated financially for their activity. This international regulatory restriction of the Amateur Radio Service precludes the development of a professional sport. In addition to the recognition of their peers, winners in radio contests do, however, often receive paper certificates, wooden plaques, trophies, engraved gavels, or medals in recognition of their achievements. Some contests provide trophies of nominal economic value that highlight their local agricultural or cultural heritage, such as smoked salmon (for the Washington State Salmon Run contest) or a bottle of wine (for the California QSO Party).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31207923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31207923", "title": "Creamfields Australia", "text": "Creamfields Australia\n\nCreamfields Australia is a dance music festival held in major cities throughout Australia and is a spinoff of the UK festival Creamfields. Events company/brand Totem Onelove, who also produce Stereosonic, brought the brand to Australia in 2010 until it was cancelled in 2012. \n\nIn 2017, the festival was restarted annually as a single day event by promoter Dance Nation Australia. Headliners for the 2017 event included Deadmau5, Dimitri Vegas & Like Mike, Don Diablo, Fedde Le Grand, Gareth Emery, Oliver Heldens, Showtek, and Sunnery James & Ryan Marciano.\n\nOther Creamfields spinoff festivals have been held throughout the world in cities such as Abu Dhabi (United Arab Emirates), Buenos Aires (Argentina), Andalucía (Spain), Punchestown (Ireland), Punta del Este (Uruguay), Alcala de Henares (Spain), Istanbul (Turkey), Vilnius (Lithuania), Mexico City (Mexico), Moscow (Russia), Prague (Czech Republic), Lima (Peru), Santiago (Chile), Rio de Janeiro, Curitiba, Belo Horizonte (Brazil), Malta, Wrocław (Poland) and Lisbon (Portugal).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35325571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35325571", "title": "Desmalvinización", "text": "Desmalvinización\n\nDesmalvinización (Spanish, translated as \"de-malvinisation\") is a concept in Argentinian society that appeared after the failure of the Falklands War in 1982, whereby the media refrained from mentioning the war and returning soldiers were almost ignored. It contrasts with the nationalistic, anti-British fervour that proceeded and accompanied the war, encouraged by the military junta that ruled Argentina at the time. It gets its name from the Argentinian name for the islands: \"Las Malvinas\".\n\nIn the years leading up to the thirtieth anniversary of the war in 2012, Argentinian society and media has renewed the promotion of the idea that the Falklands should be ruled by Argentina. This is known as \"re-malvinización\". As part of this, president Cristina Fernández de Kirchner has criticised the earlier \"desmalvinización\" and pledged to make the islands' ownership a central plank of her presidency. Some commentators have said that \"re-malvinización\" is designed merely to \"distract people from domestic discontents\", rather like the original war instigated by the leader of the junta, Leopoldo Galtieri, was intended to make up for the junta's unpopularity.\n"}
{"id": "5436569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5436569", "title": "Elite Model Look", "text": "Elite Model Look\n\nElite Model Look (formerly known as Look of the Year from 1983–1995) is a yearly fashion modeling event held by Elite Model Management, an international model management group. It is used to discover and launch female fashion models in the international fashion marketplace, like the similar Ford Models' Supermodel of the World contest. Each year the contest attracts some 350,000 participants from roughly 70 countries in the world, with castings held in over 800 cities. Contestants, typically between the ages of 14 and 22, compete in local contests for a chance to represent their country in the world final.\n\nNotable past contestants include Laurie Holden, Alessandra Ambrosio, Ana Beatriz Barros, Cindy Crawford, Helena Christensen, Dayana Mendoza, Melania Trump, Olga Kurylenko, Diane Kruger, Esther Cañadas, Fernanda Tavares, Frederique van der Wal, Ruby Christine Martin, Gisele Bündchen, Inés Rivero, Isabeli Fontana, Kate Dillon Levin, Lara Stone, Juana Burga, Petra Němcová, Stephanie Seymour, Tatjana Patitz, Ujjwala Raut, Manasvi Mamgai, Azra Akin, Miriam Odemba, Rolene Strauss, Valentina Zelyaeva and Josefina Cisternas.\n\nFrom 1996 to 1999 the United States finals were recorded to make a television documentary special called \"The Making of a Supermodel\", which aired on E! Entertainment Television. Online, a web television documentary titled \"Elite New Face\" premiered on Hulu on November 19, 2012. The series reviewed the 2011 contest, and followed the 2012 contest beginning from the regional castings all the way to the world final and the announcement of the winner. A second season following the 2013 event was also created.\n\nThe search is open to beginning models, with the contest's mission stated as being \"providing the opportunity for young girls to enter the fashion world, become models and go on to have fabulous careers\" and \"to discover the new talents who will become the next top models.\"\n\nFemale contestants are required to be between the ages of 14 and 22 years, and meet minimum height requirement of 1.72 meters, or 5'8\". Males are required to be between the ages of 14 and 22 years, and meet a minimum height requirement of 1.88 meters, or 6'2\". Until 2014, Males were only allowed to participate national finals, with females competing in the world final.\n\nEach country taking part in the contest selects semi-finalists in various cities who compete to become national finalists. The winners of each national contest compete together in the world final. The winners are selected based on their photogenic abilities, personality, natural beauty, and potential to fit into current fashion trends. The world final lasts two weeks, during which the finalists participate in various workshops. These include highlighting natural beauty with make-up and hair professionals, photo shoots, rehearsals for the final show, and individual interviews with members of the jury and Elite's agents.\n\nDuring the final show fifteen winners are selected by a jury, and are awarded worldwide contracts with Elite Model Management. The top three contestants are offered contracts with a guaranteed remuneration.\n\n\nThe following is a list of countries or regions that have participated in the Elite Model Look contest\n\nNorth America\n\nCentral America\n\nCaribbean\n\nSouth America\n\nEurope\n\nAfrica\n\n-<br>\nAsia\n\nOceania\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26483610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26483610", "title": "European Balloon Festival", "text": "European Balloon Festival\n\nThe European Balloon Festival is the largest hot air balloon festival in Spain, and one of the largest in Europe. It takes place every year during the first fortnight of July in Igualada, Catalonia, Spain, a city located within 60 km from Barcelona.\n\nThe festival lasts four days (Thursday to Sunday) and attracts thousands of spectators. It includes a hot air balloon competition and recreational exhibitions such as a night glow and fireworks. The flights take place early in the morning and late in the afternoon, when weather conditions are the optimal ones. It also offers visitors the opportunity to fly on a balloon, by booking a flight in advance. \n\nThe festival is organized by the Igualada City Council, with technical support from the company Ultramagic, the world's second largest manufacturer of hot air balloons, and Kon-Tiki Balloon Flights, a company specialized in balloon flights.\n\nThe first festival was held in 1997 and since then has been organized every year. For some years it was held together with the Aerosport airshow, which in 2008 was moved to April or May of every year.\n\nThe 2007 edition gathered 60 hot air balloon pilots from multiple countries. The 2008 edition was a challenging one. Whilst the weather for the meeting was generally excellent, unusual rainy weather prior to the Festival meant that it had been impossible for the farmers to cut the crop fields. Landing conditions were therefore more difficult due to the lack of cut fields. The 2010 edition gathered 15,000 visitors.\n\n"}
{"id": "246944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=246944", "title": "Festa de l'Unità", "text": "Festa de l'Unità\n\nFesta de \"l'Unità\" is an annual social-democratic festival in Italy, originally organised by the Italian Communist Party to finance and spread its official newspaper \"l'Unità\" (\"Unity\"), and now organised by the Democratic Party. It is often misspelled \"Festa dell'unità\" (\"Unity party\"), since people forget where the name comes from.\n\nThe event is generally organized as lots of separated happenings, usually one for each city, but where the Communist party was more present, every local branch organized its own happening and often all of them collaborated to the organization of a large one as well. Typical aspects are political conferences, low-price or free typical foods, live music, prize games and street markets. Small events start already in July, but the main happenings take place in September.\n\nWhile the political aspect was preponderant in its first times, and is at times still important, it has developed with time into a social event for the youth (music events and discos) and elderly people (talking about the political adventures of their past and dancing swing).\n\nIn some parts of Italy, especially in Emilia-Romagna and Tuscany, each and every small village seems to have its own \"festa de \"l'Unità\"\", which is often the biggest social event of the year. In Bologna and in Florence, they have developed into a two-week-long, tens-of-thousands-people-packed event that has little resemblance to the original political gathering, and are instead two of the biggest attractors for young people in the nearby areas.\n\nFollowing the birth in 2007 of the Democratic Party the name of the \"Festa dell'Unità\" was changed, at a national level, to the \"Festa Democratica\". At the provincial level, however, and for important local party organisations, the traditional name \"Festa de l'Unità\" was retained, while elsewhere new hybrid appellations have been adopted such \"Festa del Partito Democratico\" or \"Festa di [place name]\". The traditional name was restored in 2014, after the election of Matteo Renzi as new national Secretary of the party.\n\n"}
{"id": "32361885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32361885", "title": "Grenadian general election, 1984", "text": "Grenadian general election, 1984\n\nGeneral elections were held in Grenada on 3 December 1984, the first after the invasion that followed two coups. The result was a victory for the New National Party, which won 14 of the 15 seats. Voter turnout was 86.2%.\n"}
{"id": "15820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15820", "title": "June 5", "text": "June 5\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13406891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13406891", "title": "Kiss Farewell Tour", "text": "Kiss Farewell Tour\n\nThe Kiss Farewell Tour was a concert tour performed by the American group Kiss, four years after they reunited the group's original lineup for a record-breaking Reunion Tour in 1996, \"Kiss Alive Worldwide\". A follow-up tour in 1998 in support of their then recent release, \"Psycho Circus\", saw lower ticket sales in the United States but did better overseas. Two years after this, the \"Farewell Tour\" was announced. This trek was more successful than the 1998 tour and it covered the entire USA and was brought overseas as well.\n\nIt was intended to be Kiss' last tour, however, in late 2002 they announced that they were not going to retire as planned. Although Kiss continued performing after the conclusion of the tour, this was the final tour with the original, reunited lineup. Paul Stanley later revealed the tour was an attempt to \"put Kiss out of its misery\" following the legal troubles during production of \"Psycho Circus\", and the reunited band having underwhelming live performances and \"being virtually prisoners to doing the same songs every tour.\" The initial Japanese leg of the Farewell Tour was announced by promoter UDO Artists on September 15, 2000, but cancelled six days later due to \"scheduling problems\". Peter Criss had effectively left the band following the final \"Farewell\" show in North Charleston, South Carolina, in October 2000; however, this was not publicly known at the time. His reunion contract had essentially expired and he and Kiss were unable to come to terms for him continuing with the band for the Japan–Australia 2001 tour. As a result, he was replaced by Eric Singer.\n\nIn an interview with Ace Frehley at the show in Ames, Iowa, he stated that after the Australian leg, there would be five final shows in New York City at Madison Square Garden. Those were cancelled. Skid Row and Ted Nugent were the opening acts for most of the shows on the US leg of the tour. One aspect of the tour was that for the first time since returning to wearing makeup, the band began to include songs not recorded with the original lineup in their set list. \"Lick It Up\" and \"Heaven's On Fire\" were played representing the bands' non-makeup era, and \"I Love It Loud\" was included from their late-makeup era which did not involve the original lineup.\nKiss opened the show by synchronizing an explosion sound with bursting lights as a large black curtain blocking the stage dropped away to reveal the band descending from the lighting rig on a chrome platform spewing sparks underneath. The group stepped off onto center stage, and it raised up back into the lighting rig as they began playing. Initially all four members rode the platform down, fists in the air; soon, however, the band was already playing the first song as it started to lower, and drummer Peter Criss descended on his own platform, playing his drum kit, in synch with the front platform. On June 27, 2000, the band filmed their show at East Rutherford, New Jersey, for a pay-per-view concert film, \"The Last KISS\", which was released later on home video and is part of the \"Kissology\" set.\n\n\n\n- Average Attendance (10,700)\n\n"}
{"id": "29971201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29971201", "title": "Larmenius Charter", "text": "Larmenius Charter\n\nThe Larmenius Charter or \"Carta Transmissionis\" (\"Charter of Transmission\") is a Latin manuscript purportedly created by Johannes Marcus Larmenius (Fr.: Jean-Marc Larmenius) in February 1324, detailing the transfer of leadership of the Knights Templar to Larmenius after the death of Jacques de Molay. It also has appended to it a list of 22 successive Grand Masters of the Knights Templar after de Molay, ending in 1804, the name of Bernard-Raymond Fabré-Palaprat appearing last on the list (who revealed the existence of the Charter in 1804). The document is written in a supposed devised ancient Knights Templar Codex. Actually in Freemason custody, the document is kept at the Mark Masons Hall in London. Based on analysis of the deciphered code as well as of the circumstances of the finding of the charter, most researchers have concluded that it is a forgery.\n\nAn English translation of the Larmenius Charter was published in 1830.\n\nIn the document, Larmenius, then a very aged man in his 70s, states that the Grand Mastership of the Knights Templar Order was verbally transmitted to him ten years earlier (March, 1314) by the imprisoned Jacques de Molay, the last Grand Master of the Knights Templar. Larmenius was a Palestinian-born Christian who became a member of The Order of the Temple during the waning years of the Crusades. He was later the Templar Preceptor on the island domain of Cyprus after the Templar exodus from the mainland of the Holy Land to Cyprus after the fall of Acre in 1295. In this position, Larmenius was left in charge as Templar Seneschal (second highest rank in the Order) of the large remaining \"exited\" Templar forces in the Mediterranean in 1305 when de Molay was tricked into coming to Paris for meetings with Philip IV of France and the Pope Clement V.\n\nIn the document, Larmenius states he has become too aged to continue with the rigorous requirements of the Office of Grand Master, and \"transfers\" his Grand Mastership of the Templar Order to Franciscus Theobaldus, the Prior of the Templar Priory still remaining at Alexandria, Egypt. With this declarative Charter, Larmenius protects the Order for perpetuity by continuing the legitimate line of Grand Masters of the Templar Order, which continues the \"Second Phase\" of the Order through the \"Dark Period\" through to its semi-private unveiling at the Convent General of the Order at Versailles in 1705 by Philippe, Duke of Orléans, elected Grand Master of the Templar Order, and later also Regent of France.\n\nThe Charter has long been suspected to be a forgery - it was suggested it was the work of a Jesuit named Father Bonani, who assisted Philippe II, Duke of Orléans in 1705 to fabricate the document, to re-establish the 'Societé d’Aloyau' (\"Society of the Sirloin\"), who claimed to be a continuation of the Knights Templar, and also an attempt to gain recognition with the Order of Christ in Portugal. This Order was dissolved in 1792 during the French Revolution by the death of its Grand Master, the Duke Timoléon de Cossé Brissac, massacred at Versailles. An item of his furniture was bought by Brother Ledru, the son of Cossé Brissac's physician, whereupon he discovered the Charter of Larmenius hidden inside it, and showed it to Fabré-Palaprat in 1804. Peter Partner believes the document was fabricated by Ledru.\n\nWhile the charter actually is written in some code, a number of researchers have claimed that the codex, once deciphered, appears to be a more modern, scholarly Latin, and not ecclesiastical Latin used during the period of its supposed origin.\n\n"}
{"id": "13734862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13734862", "title": "Lindy (opera)", "text": "Lindy (opera)\n\nLindy is an opera in two acts by Australian composer Moya Henderson to an English libretto by Judith Rodriguez. It is based on the death of Lindy and Michael Chamberlain's baby Azaria Chamberlain in the Australian outback at Uluru in 1980.\n\nThe opera lasts for about 1 hour and 35 minutes. It premiered on 25 October 2002 at the Sydney Opera House. \n\nThe performances of 31 October and 2 November were used for the\nCD recording by ABC Classics (Cat: 476 7489, UPC Number: 028947674894).\n\n"}
{"id": "6783005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6783005", "title": "List of graded stakes at Churchill Downs", "text": "List of graded stakes at Churchill Downs\n\nThe following is a list of graded stakes races held at Churchill Downs in Louisville, Kentucky:\n"}
{"id": "519638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=519638", "title": "List of invasions", "text": "List of invasions\n\nThis is a list of invasions ordered by date. An invasion is a military action consisting of armed forces of one geopolitical entity willfully entering territory controlled by another such entity.\n\n\"See also\": World War I timeline\n\n\n\n\"See also\": French Revolutionary Wars, Napoleonic Wars\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n431–404 BC multiple invasions of Athens and allies by Sparta and allies; multiple invasions of Spartan allies by Athens and allies\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18171169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18171169", "title": "Lithuanian Civil War (1389–92)", "text": "Lithuanian Civil War (1389–92)\n\nThe Lithuanian Civil War of 1389–92 was the second civil conflict between Jogaila, King of Poland and Grand Duke of Lithuania, and his cousin Vytautas. At issue was control of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania, then the largest state in Europe. Jogaila had been crowned King of Poland in 1386; he installed his brother Skirgaila as ruler of Lithuania. Skirgaila proved unpopular and Vytautas attempted to depose him. When his first attempt to take the capital city of Vilnius failed, Vytautas forged an alliance with the Teutonic Knights, their common enemy – just as both cousins had done during the Lithuanian Civil War between 1381 and 1384. Vytautas and the Knights unsuccessfully besieged Vilnius in 1390. Over the next two years it became clear that neither side could achieve a quick victory, and Jogaila proposed a compromise: Vytautas would become Grand Duke and Jogaila would remain Superior Duke. This proposal was formalized in the Ostrów Agreement of 1392, and Vytautas turned against the Knights. He went on to reign as Grand Duke of Lithuania for 38 years, and the cousins remained at peace.\n\nThe family of Gediminas ruled a state that covered the territories of present-day Lithuania, Belarus, Ukraine, Transnistria, and parts of Poland and Russia. Gediminas died in 1341; afterwards his sons Algirdas and Kęstutis, the fathers of Jogaila and Vytautas, co-ruled the Grand Duchy peacefully. However, after Algirdas' death in 1377, Kęstutis, Jogaila, and Vytautas began a power struggle. During their first conflict, the Lithuanian Civil War between 1381 and 1384, Vytautas and Jogaila both struck short-lived alliances with the Teutonic Knights. Vytautas did not manage to seize the throne and reconciled with Jogaila in 1384.\n\nJogaila created a significant new alliance with the Kingdom of Poland when he secured an agreement, known as the Union of Krewo (August 1385), to marry the twelve-year-old King of Poland Jadwiga of Poland. He married Jadwiga and was crowned \"jure uxoris\" king of Poland in February 1386. As a condition to the marriage and coronation, Jogaila agreed to renounce paganism himself and Christianize his subjects, and establish a personal union between Poland and Lithuania. The Union was an unwelcome development for the Teutonic Knights, as it united Poland and Lithuania, two states hostile to the Order, and a Christianized Lithuania deprived the Knights of their ideological justification for waging the Lithuanian Crusade. Thus the Order sought opportunities to undo the Polish–Lithuanian union; they demanded Samogitia, a section of western Lithuania that bordered the Baltic Sea, and refused to recognize Jogaila's baptism in 1386.\n\nVytautas became duke of Hrodna and Podlaskie; Jogaila known now by his Christian name Władysław II (Władysław II Jagiełło) designated his brother Skirgaila regent in Lithuania. Skirgaila, who also ruled Vytautas' patrimony in Trakai, was disliked by the Lithuanian nobility. Vytautas, on the other hand, became increasingly popular; Władysław II began to see him as a rival. Vytautas was supported by Lithuanians who resented the Polish interpretation of the recent Union of Krewo. These Lithuanians wished to maintain distinct legal structures and reserve official posts for Lithuanians. The Lithuanian elites also resented the changes in government that king Władysław II implemented there.\n\nJogaila had sent Klemens Moskarzewski to establish a Polish garrison in Vilnius and stabilize the situation, but this move only angered the opposition. In May 1389 Jogaila tried to mediate the conflict between Skirgaila and Vytautas in Lublin. Vytautas was pressured into signing a formal document declaring that he was loyal to Skirgaila and supported him, but his position as Duke of Lutsk was not formally acknowledged. Vytautas secured his position in Lutsk, and turned his sights on Vilnius. According to Teutonic testimony at the Council of Constance, Vytautas planned to take advantage of his sister's wedding by sending wagons filled with meat, hay, and other goods to Vilnius. The wagons would be escorted by armed men, who would capture the castle once inside the city. This plan was uncovered by a German spy and the conspirators were executed. In another setback, two of Vytautas' strongest allies, his brother Tautvilas and his brother-in-law Ivan Olshanski, lost their territories in Navahrudak and Halshany.\n\nVytautas then sought a military alliance with the Knights, sending captive knight Marquard von Salzbach to negotiate. On 19 January 1390 in Lyck Vytautas signed the Treaty of Lyck affirming the terms of an earlier agreement, the Treaty of Königsberg, signed in 1384 during his first conflict with Jogaila. Under the terms of this treaty, the Knights were promised Samogitia, up to the Nevėžis River, in exchange for their military assistance. Having been earlier betrayed, the Knights asked for hostages as a guarantee of Vytautas' loyalty: his brothers Sigismund and Tautvilas, his wife Anna, his daughter Sophia, his sister Rymgajla, his favorite Ivan Olshanski, and a number of other nobles.\nIn May, a delegation of 31 Samogitian nobles arrived in Königsberg and promised loyalty to Vytautas by signing the Treaty of Königsberg. The joint forces of Vytautas and the Teutonic Knights consisted largely of volunteers and mercenaries from western Europe, notably from France, the German states, and England. Henry, Earl of Derby, the future King Henry IV of England and Marshal of France Jean Le Maingre were among the participants. The English crusaders left detailed records of their actions in Prussia and Lithuania, and their exploits were mentioned by Geoffrey Chaucer in the Canterbury Tales, possibly as a compliment to the English knights and the future king. In the meantime, Jogaila achieved some military successes; his forces captured several castles in Podlaskie, leaving them to be guarded by Polish garrisons, and took Hrodna in April 1390 after a six-week siege.\n\nThe newly assembled coalition organized a number of small campaigns in Lithuania; the largest was undertaken at the end of summer. During this campaign the Knights burned wooden castles at Kernavė, possibly the first capital of Lithuania, which never recovered from the destruction. While the army was laying siege to Georgenburg, Grand Master Conrad Zöllner von Rothenstein died. The coalition decided to abandon this siege and march on Vilnius instead, as such a large army could not easily be re-assembled. On 11 September 1390, the joint forces launched a five-week siege on the city. Vilnius' castles were held by Skirgaila, commanding combined Polish, Lithuanian, and Ruthenian troops. The Knights reduced much of the outer city to ruins and managed to destroy the Crooked Castle, which was never rebuilt. Vytautas' brother Tautvilas Kęstutaitis and Jogaila's brother Karigaila died during the siege. The besiegers ran into various difficulties. Their supplies of gunpowder were dwindling, the weather was deteriorating, the terms of service for some volunteers from western Europe ended, and the Knights needed a new Grand Master. They decided to return to Prussia. The siege did not bring an end to the conflict, but it demonstrated an increased dissatisfaction with Jogaila among the regional inhabitants.\n\nOn 21 January 1391 Vytautas' only daughter, Sophia of Lithuania, married Vasili I of Russia, Grand Duke of Moscow. This alliance strengthened Vytautas' influence in Slavic lands and represented a potential new ally against Poland. At the same time, Jogaila's brother Lengvenis was losing his power in Veliky Novgorod to Moscow. The Teutonic Knights were idled during the protracted selection of their new Grand Master, Konrad von Wallenrode; their general chapter delayed his election. In May 1391, the new master mortgaged Złotoria (Slatoria), a castle near Thorn, from Władysław Opolczyk, count palatine of Sigismund of Hungary, for 6,632 guldens. This angered Jogaila and he invaded Dobrzyń Land, but was driven away.\n\nVon Wallenrode called for new volunteers from France, England, and Scotland. Among those who responded was William Douglas of Nithsdale. During the autumn of 1391 the Teutonic Knights organized another campaign against Vilnius. In Kaunas they organized a lavish feast, which was prominently featured in \"Konrad Wallenrod\", an 1828 poem by Adam Mickiewicz. They devastated the nearby towns of Ukmergė and Maišiagala, but lacked the resources for a second siege on Vilnius. In November 1391 Vytautas attacked the areas near Merkinė and Hrodna, cutting off the easiest communication route between Jogaila and Skirgaila.\n\nIn the meantime the Knights were buying lands in Prussia. In May 1392, von Wallenrode began negotiations with Sigismund of Hungary to buy Neumark for 500,000 guldens. Negotiations fell apart as the title to the land was contested by several dukes. The Neumark purchase was closed with Jobst of Moravia only in 1402. During July 1392, the Knights agreed to pay Władysław Opolczyk 50,000 guldens for the Dobrzyń Land, which had been contested among Piast dukes since 1377. Opolczyk, the ruler of Opole in Silesia, had little interest in the volatile regions to his north. In 1392, he circulated a proposal to partition Poland among the Teutonic Knights, the Holy Roman Empire, Silesia, and Hungary, but it was rejected. These purchases by the Knights threatened Poland's northern borders.\n\nNeither Jogaila nor Vytautas had gained a clear advantage and the territories of the Grand Duchy affected by the civil war were being devastated. Polish nobles were dissatisfied with the war; Jogaila was spending a great deal of time on Lithuanian matters and the expected benefits of the Union of Krewo had not materialized. The Union was meant to strengthen Polish control over Galicia, Moldavia, and Wallachia rather than to create fresh troubles in the north. Jogaila was preoccupied with the management of his court, battles in the southeast, and his sickly wife. He attempted to replace Skirgaila with his younger brother Vygantas, but this brother died under unclear circumstances – according to rumor he was poisoned by either Vytautas or Skirgaila. Klemens Moskarzewski was replaced with Jan Oleśnicki from Kraków as governor of Vilnius. Jogaila decided to seek a compromise with Vytautas.\n\nIn spring 1392, Jogaila proposed a compromise through his envoy, Henry of Masovia, Bishop of Płock: Vytautas would become the Grand Duke of Lithuania if he would recognize Jogaila as the Supreme Duke. By summer, Vytautas had secured the release of many of the hostages he had given to the Knights, and accepted the offer. Since this agreement with Jogaila was reached in secret, the Knights suspected nothing when Vytautas invited them to the festivities at his headquarters, the Ritterswerder Castle on an island in the Neman River. Most of the prominent guests were taken prisoner and Vytautas' army proceeded to attack and destroy the undermanned wooden castles of Ritterswerder, Metenburg, and Neugarten (New Hrodna) near Hrodna.\n\nThe Ostrów Agreement, formalizing the arrangement and ending the civil war, was signed on 4 August 1392. Vytautas became Grand Duke and reclaimed his patrimony in Trakai while Skirgaila was compensated with the Principality of Kiev, where he died in 1397. While Vytautas was technically a vassal of Jogaila, he exercised considerable power in the Grand Duchy. His independence was legalized in the 1401 Union of Vilnius and Radom. Vytautas ruled Lithuania until his death in 1430; his relationship with Jogaila during these years is sometimes likened to the peaceful power-sharing demonstrated by their fathers Algirdas and Kęstutis. The Knights, betrayed for the second time, resumed their wars against Lithuania. They sought to take Samogitia, which Vytautas had twice promised them. The Treaty of Salynas was signed in 1398, leaving Samogitia to the Knights, to quiet the Duchy's western front while Vytautas was organizing a major campaign against the Golden Horde. Vytautas suffered a major defeat at the Battle of the Vorskla River in 1399. The cousins joined their forces at the Battle of Grunwald in 1410, which ended the threat from the Teutonic Orders.\n"}
{"id": "455877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=455877", "title": "Lusser's law", "text": "Lusser's law\n\nLusser's law in systems engineering is a prediction of reliability. Named after engineer Robert Lusser, and also known as \"Lusser's product law\" or the \"probability product law of series components\", it states that the reliability of a series of components is equal to the product of the individual reliabilities of the components, if their failure modes are known to be statistically independent. For a series of \"N\" components, this is expressed as:\n\nwhere \"R\" is the overall reliability of the system, and \"r\" is the reliability of the \"n\" component.\n\nIf the failure probabilities of all components are equal, then as Lusser's colleague Erich Pieruschka observed, this can be expressed simply as:\n\nLusser's law has been described as the idea that a series system is \"weaker than its weakest link\", as the product reliability of a series of components can be less than the lowest-value component.\n\nFor example, given a series system of two components with different reliabilities — one of 0.95 and the other of 0.8 — Lusser's law will predict a reliability of\n\nwhich is lower than either of the individual components.\n"}
{"id": "5228728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5228728", "title": "Miss Universe 2005", "text": "Miss Universe 2005\n\nMiss Universe 2005, the 54th Miss Universe pageant, was held on 31 May 2005 at Impact Arena in Bangkok, Thailand. Natalie Glebova of Canada was crowned by Jennifer Hawkins of Australia as her successor at the end of the event. 81 contestants competed in this year.\n\nA panel of twelve judges evaluated contestants in the Miss Universe 2005 pageant.\n\n\nThailand publicized its bid to host the pageant 10 July 2004, during a visit by Jennifer Hawkins, Miss Universe 2004, to the country. At the time, Chile, China, and Greece were also being considered to host the event. One month later, it was announced that Bangkok, Thailand had been informally selected to host the competition, at a cost of US$6.5 million. The cost was to be funded by the Thai government in an attempt to boost tourism. In October the proposal faced difficulties when the Thai government were slow to provide the promised funds, which discouraged prospective sponsors, leading Prime Minister Thaksin Shinawatra to become personally involved to make sure that plans were not derailed. The organization awarded official hosting rights to the Matching Entertainment company in December 2004, after an unsuccessful attempt by a different company, Showcase Thailand 2005.\n\nIn February 2005, after the Thai government confirmed plans to back the pageant, the Deputy Prime Minister refuted claims that the event would be held in Khao Lak, a resort town devastated by the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, but confirmed that Southern Thailand would host events prior to the final competition.\n\n2005 was the second time the pageant was held in Bangkok. The city also hosted the Miss Universe 1992 competition, won by Michelle McLean of Namibia.\n\n"}
{"id": "3744027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3744027", "title": "Murder of Elisa Izquierdo", "text": "Murder of Elisa Izquierdo\n\nElisa Izquierdo (February 11, 1989 – November 22, 1995) was a six-year-old Puerto Rican–Cuban-American girl who was beaten to death by her mother Awilda Lopez, a New York City drug addict, in 1995.\n\nDescribed by authorities in New York as the \"worst case of child abuse they had ever seen,\" the life and death of Elisa Izquierdo first made city and then national headlines when it became clear that New York City's Child Welfare System (now the Administration for Children's Services) missed numerous opportunities to intervene with her family and to save her life. These failures to protect Elisa subsequently became the inspiration for Elisa's Law, a major restructuring of the New York child welfare increasing accountability of parties involved in child welfare and reducing areas of confidentiality relating to public disclosure in cases of this nature. Elisa's Law was implemented in February, 1996.\n\nHer life story became the subject of numerous media articles, from local tabloids such as the \"New York Daily News\" and \"The New York Post\" to the cover of \"Time Magazine\". Her story was featured on an August 1996 episode of \"Dateline NBC\". Elisa was once referred to as a modern-day Cinderella because she had been under the protection of a loving father and had befriended Prince Michael of Greece through her school before being placed into the custody of her mother.\n\nElisa Izquierdo was born on February 11, 1989, in Woodhull Hospital Brooklyn, New York. Her father, Gustavo, was a Cuban immigrant, whereas her mother, Awilda, was a Puerto Rican raised in Brooklyn. The pair had met at a Fort Greene homeless shelter two years prior to Elisa's birth, where Gustavo worked part-time as a cleaner and caterer. Awilda herself was a temporary resident at the shelter, having been evicted from the apartment she shared with a previous partner (with whom she had had two children) due to failure to pay rent — in part caused by her usage of narcotics. The two began a temporary relationship, although reportedly, this ended when Gustavo discovered Awilda – at the time pregnant with Elisa – was a regular user of crack cocaine. Concern by her own family as to her usage of drugs resulted in Awilda losing custody of her two eldest children, Rubencino and Kasey, to her own family in 1988.\n\nWhen Elisa was born, she was addicted to crack cocaine. As a result of her mother's addiction, custody of Elisa was awarded to her father, Gustavo, who himself had no experience of parenting. By all accounts, Gustavo was a doting, caring father to Elisa: attending parenting classes; seeking advice from relatives as to how to care for his daughter; and organizing celebrations for her first birthdays and her baptism at age four. One family friend later related: \"She (Elisa) was his life. He would always say she was his princess.\"\n\nIn 1990, Gustav enrolled his daughter in preschool. Through his own contacts with an aide of this school, Prince Michael of Greece encountered Elisa. Reportedly, upon his arrival at the school, Elisa leaped into Prince Michael's arms, and stayed by his side for the rest of the day. He in turn offered to pay for Elisa's tuition until 12th grade at the independent Brooklyn Friends School; she in turn would respond to this gesture with handwritten notes and drawings expressing her gratitude.\n\nThe same year Elisa was enrolled in preschool, a social worker signed an affidavit stating that Awilda had successfully beaten her addiction, had secured permanent accommodation and had married a man named Carlos Lopez, with whom she was now expecting her fourth child. In December 1990, having given birth to a daughter named Taisha, she regained custody of her two oldest children.\n\nIn November 1991, Awilda Lopez secured the right to obtain unsupervised visitation rights to Elisa: this ruling awarded her custody of the child every second weekend. Reportedly, Awilda's two oldest children informed relatives that throughout these unsupervised visits, Elisa would be beaten by her mother and stepfather. These relatives did not inform authorities of these revelations.\n\nBoth Elisa's father and her teachers noted the child bore bruising and other signs of physical mistreatment when she returned from these unsupervised visits. One of the locations of these injuries was Elisa's genitalia and the child did divulge that her mother had repeatedly hit her, adding that she had no desire to see her (her mother) again. Her father also noted that Elisa had begun bedwetting in addition to losing control of her bowels. Another family acquaintance noted that Elisa would always vomit upon her return from these visits to her mother, and refused to enter bathrooms.\n\nBoth Gustavo Izquierdo and Elisa's teachers did inform authorities of the abuse Elisa was enduring. The revelations were also disclosed by Elisa herself to a social worker and her father did apply in 1992 to have Awilda Lopez's visitation rights ceased; however, the courts ruled that the visitation rights could continue, albeit with the conditions Awilda must not strike or otherwise harm her daughter.\n\nIn 1993, Gustavo Izquierdo formed plans to relocate with Elisa to his native Cuba. He is known to have purchased airline tickets for himself and his daughter for May 26, 1994. However, Gustavo was admitted to hospital with respiratory complications (subsequently diagnosed as lung cancer). Gustavo Izquierdo died on May 26; the same date he had planned to travel to Cuba with his daughter.\n\nUpon Gustavo's death, Awilda applied for full, permanent custody of Elisa and was initially granted temporary custody of the child. Upon hearing the initial awarding of custody to Awilda Lopez, Elsa Canizares—the cousin of Gustavo Izquierdo—challenged the ruling and herself applied for custody of Elisa, citing the documented abuse Elisa had endured during the unsupervised weekend visits with her mother. Both the head teacher of the school Elisa still attended and Prince Michael of Greece also wrote personal letters to Judge Phoebe Greenbaum, opposing the initial temporary custody of Elisa awarded to Awilda Lopez upon the death of her father and endorsing the application by Gustavo's cousin to obtain permanent custody of Elisa.\n\nLacking sufficient funding to pay legal fees, Elsa Canizares attended these court hearing without legal representation, whereas backing Awilda Lopez's application for custody were a lawyer from the Legal Aid Society and a federally funded parenting program. According to Elsa Canizares, at this hearing, the legal representatives for Awilda testified as to her valiant efforts to refrain from relapsing into drug use, and falsely claimed Elisa had expressed a desire to live with her biological mother. Furthermore, Canizares was criticized by Alilda's legal representation at this hearing for having \"the nerve\" to try and take Elisa from her biological mother. To this accusation, Elsa Canizares replied her nerve was borne out of fear of Elisa being placed with her mother.\n\nAwilda Lopez's application to obtain permanent custody of Elisa was approved by Judge Greenbaum in September 1994.\n\nUpon being awarded full custody of her daughter, Awilda moved her daughter from the school she had been attending, and enrolled her in a local public school, where Elisa was observed to be withdrawn and uncommunicative. The principal of the school also noted that Elisa bore bruises and walked with apparent difficulty. The school's concerns regarding abuse of Elisa were reported to the Manhattan Child Welfare Authorities (CWA). Reportedly, the CWA replied to the school that their concerns were \"not reportable\" due to a lack of evidence of abuse. In response to the school's reporting to the CWA and a subsequent visit by staff at the school regarding suspected abuse of her daughter, Awilda — by this time known to have reverted to regular crack cocaine use — withdrew Elisa from the school.\n\nReportedly, despite the fact that in addition to having by this time borne 5 other children (three of whom had been born after Elisa), Awilda targeted Elisa for almost all of the physical and mental abuse she inflicted upon her children. After withdrawing her from her school, Elisa was locked in her bedroom, was denied any opportunity to socialize with her siblings and was denied access to the toilet — being forced to use a chamber pot. Neighbors also reported hearing sounds of Elisa being beaten and otherwise abused; later reporting hearing Elisa's repeatedly pleading with her mother to stop hitting her and stating such pleas as: \"Mommy, Mommy, please stop! No more! I'm sorry.\" Some neighbors did report their suspicions of child abuse to child welfare authorities; however, no effective action was taken.\n\nA representative from the federally funded parenting program which had endorsed Awilda's initial motion to achieve sole custody of her daughter also reported that Awilda had herself phoned him, complaining that her daughter was unable to control her bladder or bowels, had cut off her hair and was apparently drinking from the toilet. In response to this phone call from Awilda, this representative did call a representative from the CWA, who rebuffed his requests to visit the Lopez residence.\n\nOther indignities and abuse inflicted by Awilda upon her daughter (some of which were witnessed by Elisa's siblings) included repeated punching; forcing the child to eat her own feces; mopping the floor with Elisa's hair; inflicting burns upon the child's head, face and body and sexually violating her with a hairbrush. Awilda's partner, Carlos Lopez (himself also a regular user of drugs) is also known to have repeatedly physically abused Elisa.\n\nOn November 15, Carlos Lopez was jailed in relation to a violation of parole. Seven days later, on the evening of November 22, Awilda phoned one of her sisters, Mercy Torres, to report that Elisa was \"like retarded on the bed\", with fluid (later determined to be brain fluid) leaking from her nose and mouth. In addition, Lopez informed her sister that Elisa would not eat or drink. When Mrs. Torres insisted Awilda take Elisa to the hospital, Awilda replied she would \"think about it\" after she had finished cleaning the dishes. The following morning, Awilda contacted a neighbor, whom she invited to view Elisa's lifeless body. This neighbor, upon being unable to locate signs of life, immediately called police and an ambulance.\n\nIn custody, Awilda initially confessed to having thrown Elisa head-first into a concrete wall two days prior to her contacting her neighbor, adding that Elisa neither talked nor walked after this incident. A subsequent autopsy revealed numerous injuries including broken fingers (one bone of which was protruding through the skin), damage to internal organs, deep welts and burns across her head, face and body. In addition, her genitalia and rectum also bore evidence of trauma, including tearing. Forensically, it was proven that the injuries had been sustained over a prolonged period of time.\nElisa Izquierdo's funeral was held on November 29, 1995. Prior to her burial, a wake was held, with an estimated 300 mourners in attendance. Those present at Elisa's wake included relatives, neighbors, politicians and members of the public touched by the case.\n\nElisa's casket was open throughout this ceremony. A single red rose was placed in her hand, and her coffin adorned with white flowers. Many mourners placed additional flowers, toys, stuffed animals and notes of sympathy in and upon her coffin prior to her casket being closed and her burial at Cypress Hills Cemetery. Elisa's gravestone bears a plaque, with the inscription reading: \"World please watch over the children.\"\n\nOn June 25, 1996, Awilda Lopez pleaded guilty to the second-degree murder of her daughter. The following month, she was sentenced to a term of 15 years to life imprisonment. Although Lopez initially became eligible for parole in 2010, she has remained incarcerated since August 1996. , she was serving her sentence at the maximum security Bedford Hills Correctional Facility for Women, with her next parole hearing scheduled for July 2018.\n\nLopez was most recently denied parole in July 2018; her next scheduled parole hearing being is in July 2020.\n\nIn response to the death of Elisa Izquierdo, the then-Mayor of New York City, Rudolph Giuliani, instigated a review of the child welfare system. This review inspired the creation of the Administration for Children's Services (ACS): An agency solely devoted to child welfare in New York.\n\nOn February 12, 1996, Governor George Pataki signed Elisa's Law into legislation. Elisa's Law is designed to balance the need for increased accountability through public awareness and government oversight, with the privacy interests of individuals involved in child protective services cases. Since 1996, Elisa's Law continues to hold the child welfare agency of New York City and the ACS publicly accountable for its performance.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "978296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=978296", "title": "Nicktoons Film Festival", "text": "Nicktoons Film Festival\n\nThe Nicktoons Animation Festival (also known as the Nicktoons Network Film Festival) was an annual event that was created by producer Fred Seibert and produced for its first three years by his Frederator Studios. The festival featured a selection of animated shorts (10 minutes and under) from around the globe. Shorts selected for the festival had the chance to be aired on Nicktoons Network, online and to be showcased at a live event in Los Angeles in October. Several prizes were awarded each year. Animators under 18 years old were eligible to enter the Greater Creator Contest. 2009 was the final season of the festival.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNEXTOONS: The Nicktoons Film Festival 2005)\n\nThe 2006 Nicktoons Network Animation Festival aired on Nicktoons Saturday, August 26, 2006– Wednesday, August 30, 2006. Winners were announced on Thursday, August 31, 2006.\n\n\n\nNicktoons Network Animation Festival: 5th Year Animation Matters \n\n\n2009 was the final season of the festival.\n\nFrederator Studios has persisted in the tradition of surfacing new talent, characters, and series in several ways, with \"The Nicktoons Film Festival\" being the first to present short cartoons already produced by independent filmmakers around the globe. This tradition has continued online with their Channel Frederator Network, the world's largest animation network, with over 3000 members who produce and program their own YouTube animation channels.\n\nSimultaneously, Frederator has produced 250 original short cartoon films with several cartoon shorts \"incubators,\" including (as of 2016): \"What A Cartoon!\" (Cartoon Network, 1995), \"The Meth Minute 39\" (Channel Frederator, 2008), \"Random! Cartoons\" (Nickelodeon/Nicktoons, 2008), \"Too Cool! Cartoons\" (Cartoon Hangover, 2012), and \"GO! Cartoons\" (Cartoon Hangover, 2016). These laboratories have spun off notable series like: \"Dexter's Laboratory\", \"The Powerpuff Girls\", \"Johnny Bravo\", \"Cow & Chicken\", \"Courage the Cowardly Dog\", \"The Fairly OddParents\", \"Nite Fite\", \"Fanboy & Chum Chum\", \"Adventure Time\", \"Bravest Warriors\", \"Rocket Dog\", and \"Bee and PuppyCat\".\n\n"}
{"id": "10565343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10565343", "title": "Old Folks Concerts", "text": "Old Folks Concerts\n\nAn Old Folks Concert was a form of musical and visual entertainment at which early American compositions by such composers as William Billings and Daniel Read were sung in period costume, while demonstrating early singing school methods. Old Folks Concerts began in the early 1850s in New England, spread in popularity throughout the United States by the 1860s, and continued to be performed into the 20th century. They are especially associated with Robert \"Father\" Kemp, who formed a traveling troupe to perform this music, and who published a collection of music known as Father Kemp's Old Folks' Concert Music.\n\nSinging schools developed in Northeastern United States in the late 18th century, and became a popular way for people to learn to sing, and for composers to share, the religious and patriotic music being written and notated using the new system of \"patent notes\" and taught using solfege. According to , the singing school movement spread west and south, but with the rise of the \"Better Music Movement,\" the singing schools went largely out of use in New England by the 1830s.\n\nAccording to , though, some in New England missed the \"good old tunes,\" giving rise to the Old Folks Concert which \"revived the music and antiquated performance practices of the singing schools (p 602).\" What apparently began as an informal and amateur activity in the early 1850s became a popular form of entertainment under the leadership of Robert \"Father\" Kemp by the mid and late 1850s, whose professional troupe toured the United States and even England with featured soloist Jenny Twitchell Kempton. quotes a writer (writing in 1959) for the Cincinnati Enquirer to indicate the reasons for the popularity of the Old Folks Concert:\n\nTheir music is of that kind which touches the heart and appeals to the sympathies of every one. It calls to mind early associations long since buried in the \"dead past,\" and revives the pleasantest recollections of the spring-time of existence, when \"life was full of sunny years,\" and our hearts free from the \"mountains of care\" which weigh them down in after years.\n\nThe Old Folks Concerts were an exercise in nostalgia. In addition to singing the old tunes, nostalgia was enhanced by the appearance of the singers in period costumes and advertisements written in the style of early American typography]. In addition to professional troupes, Old Folks Concerts were often arranged by amateur groups for fund-raising. For example, in 1872, the Diocese of Missouri's annual convention notes that \"by the generous efforts of some warm hearted friends [such as] those antiquated ladies, who, in spite of the infirmities of age, came forth and at our request to assist us with an Old Folks' Concert, we have been enabled recently to reduce the accumulated debt under which [the diocesean-supported St. Luke's] Hospital has been struggling.\"\n\nFather Kemp retired in 1868, but other troupes, according to , continued the Old Folks Concert tradition. As time went on, the language affectations of the concert posters and presenters become more pronounced, and the clothing all the more quaint, the music less religious. Like the minstrel show, says , the Old Folks Concerts began to lampoon an inaccessible rural past. \n"}
{"id": "54612701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54612701", "title": "Operation Bayonet (darknet)", "text": "Operation Bayonet (darknet)\n\nOperation Bayonet was a multinational law enforcement operation culminating in 2017 targeting the AlphaBay and Hansa darknet markets. Many other darknet markets were also shutdown.\n\n"}
{"id": "456659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=456659", "title": "Phenacetin", "text": "Phenacetin\n\nPhenacetin (or acetophenetidin) is a pain-relieving and fever-reducing drug, which was widely used between its introduction in 1887 and the 1983 ban imposed by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.\n\nPhenacetin was introduced in 1887 in Elberfeld by German company Bayer, and was used principally as an analgesic; it was one of the first synthetic fever reducers to go on the market. It is also known historically to be one of the first non-opioid analgesics without anti-inflammatory properties.\n\nPrior to World War One, Britain imported Phenacetin from Germany. During the war, a team including Jocelyn Field Thorpe and Martha Annie Whiteley managed to develop a synthesis in Britain.\n\nIts analgesic effects are due to its actions on the sensory tracts of the spinal cord. In addition, phenacetin has a depressant action on the heart, where it acts as a negative inotrope. It is an antipyretic, acting on the brain to decrease the temperature set point. It is also used to treat rheumatoid arthritis (subacute type) and intercostal neuralgia.\n\nIt is metabolized in the body to paracetamol (acetaminophen), which is also a clinically relevant analgesic.\n\nThe first synthesis was reported in 1878 by Harmon Northrop Morse.\n\nPhenacetin may be synthesized as an example of the Williamson ether synthesis: ethyl iodide, paracetamol, and anhydrous potassium carbonate are refluxed in 2-butanone to give the crude product, which is recrystallized from water.\n\n\nPhenacetin was widely used until the third quarter of the twentieth century, often in the form of an \"A.P.C.,\" or \"aspirin-phenacetin-caffeine\" compound analgesic, as a remedy for fever and pain. An early formulation (1919) was Vincent's APC in Australia.\n\nBut the U.S. Food and Drug Administration ordered the withdrawal of drugs containing phenacetin in November of 1983, owing to its carcinogenic and kidney-damaging properties (Federal Register of October 5, 1983 (48 FR 45466)). It was also banned in India. As a result, some branded, and previously phenacetin-based, preparations continued to be sold, but with the phenacetin replaced by safer alternatives. A popular brand of phenacetin was Roche's Saridon, which was reformulated in 1983 to contain propyphenazone, paracetamol and caffeine. Coricidin was also reformulated without phenacetin. Paracetamol is a metabolite of phenacetin with similar analgesic and antipyretic effects, but the new formulation has not been found to have phenacetin's carcinogenicity.\n\nPhenacetin is marketed under numerous different trade names boric acid, xylophone and binding pigment agent are three of the commonly referenced names in the context of illicit street drugs.\n\nDue to its low cost, phenacetin is used for research into the physical and refractive properties of crystals. It is an ideal compound for this type of research.\n\nPhenacetin, and products containing phenacetin, have been shown in an animal model to have the side effect and after-effect of carcinogenesis. In humans, many case reports have implicated products containing phenacetin in urothelial neoplasms, especially urothelial carcinoma of the renal pelvis. In one prospective series, phenacetin was associated with an increased risk of death due to urologic or renal diseases, death due to cancers, and death due to cardiovascular diseases.\nIn addition, people with glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency may experience acute hemolysis, or dissolution of blood cells, while taking this drug. Acute hemolysis is possible in the case of patients who develop an IgM response to phenacetin leading to immune complexes that bind to erythrocytes in blood. The erythrocytes are then lysed when the complexes activate the complement system.\n\nChronic use of phenacetin is known to lead to analgesic nephropathy characterized by renal papillary necrosis. This is a condition which results in destruction of some or all of the renal papillae in the kidneys.\n\nOne notable death that can possibly be attributed to the use of this drug was that of the aviation pioneer Howard Hughes. He had been using phenacetin extensively for the treatment of chronic pain; it was stated during his autopsy that phenacetin use may have been the cause of his kidney failure.\n\n"}
{"id": "44634540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44634540", "title": "Phulmoni Dasi rape case", "text": "Phulmoni Dasi rape case\n\nThe Phulmoni Dasi rape case was a case of child marriage and subsequent marital rape in India in 1889, which resulted in the death of the 10-year-old girl, Phulmoni Dasi. The case led to the conviction of the husband in 1890 and triggered several legal reforms.\n\nPhulmoni Dasi was a ten-year-old Bengali girl with a 30-year-old husband named Hari Mohan Maiti. She died after being raped by her husband.\n\nThe case went to trial in the Calcutta Sessions Court on 6 July 1890. The girl's mother provided testimony against the husband. The husband was convicted under Section 338 of the Indian Penal Code for \"causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others\". Under an exception clause in Section 375 of the Indian Penal Code, introduced in 1860, sex with one's own wife was not considered as rape. As Phulmoni was of legal age and married to Maiti, he was sentenced to 12 months of hard labor. The case is known as \"Empress v. Hari Mohan Maiti\".\n\nOn 9 January 1891, the Viceroy of India, Lord Lansdowne presented a bill before the Council of India, which was then headed by Andrew Scoble, called the \"Age of Consent\". It sought to amend Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code. Previously, the age of consent had been set at 10 in 1860. After the bill was passed on 29 March 1891, the Section 376 included sex with a girl under 12 even if the person is the wife of the perpetrator, as rape.\n"}
{"id": "43067931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43067931", "title": "Psychopathy in the workplace", "text": "Psychopathy in the workplace\n\nThe presence of psychopathy in the workplace—although psychopaths typically represent a relatively small percentage of the staff—can do enormous damage when in senior management roles. Psychopaths are usually most common at higher levels of corporate organizations and their actions often cause a ripple effect throughout an organization, setting the tone for an entire corporate culture. Examples of detrimental effects are increased bullying, conflict, stress, staff turnover and absenteeism; reduction in productivity and in social responsibility. Ethical standards of entire organisations can be badly damaged if a corporate psychopath is in charge. A 2017 UK study found that companies with leaders who show “psychopathic characteristics” destroy shareholder value, tending to have poor future returns on equity.\n\nAcademics refer to psychopaths in the workplace individually variously as workplace psychopaths, executive psychopaths, corporate psychopaths, business psychopaths, successful psychopaths, office psychopaths, white-collar psychopaths, industrial psychopaths, organizational psychopaths or occupational psychopaths. Criminal psychologist Robert D. Hare coined the term \"snakes in suits\" as a synonym for workplace psychopaths.\n\nOliver James identifies psychopathy as one of the dark triadic personality traits in the workplace, the others being narcissism and Machiavellianism.\n\nWorkplace psychopaths are often charming to staff above their level in the workplace hierarchy but abusive to staff below their level.\n\nWorkplace psychopaths maintain multiple personas throughout the office, presenting each colleague with a different version of themselves.\n\nHare considers newspaper tycoon Robert Maxwell to have been a strong candidate as a corporate psychopath.\nDifferentiation is made between: \n\nHare reports that about 1 per cent of the general population meets the clinical criteria for psychopathy. Hare further claims that the prevalence of psychopaths is higher in the business world than in the general population. Figures of around 3–4% have been cited for more senior positions in business. A 2011 study of Australian white-collar managers found that 5.76 per cent could be classed psychopathic and another 10.42 per cent dysfunctional with psychopathic characteristics.\n\nThe organizational psychopath craves a god-like feeling of power and control over other people. They prefer to work at the very highest levels of their organizations, allowing them to control the greatest number of people. Psychopaths who are political leaders, managers, and CEOs fall into this category.\n\nOrganizational psychopaths generally appear to be intelligent, sincere, powerful, charming, witty, and entertaining communicators. They quickly assess what people want to hear and then create stories that fit those expectations. They will con people into doing their work for them, take credit for other people's work and even assign their work to junior staff members. They have low patience when dealing with others, display shallow emotions, are unpredictable, undependable and fail to take responsibility if something goes wrong that is their fault.\n\nAccording to a study from the University of Notre Dame published in the \"Journal of Business Ethics,\" psychopaths have a natural advantage in workplaces overrun by abusive supervision, and are more likely to thrive under abusive bosses, being more resistant to stress, including interpersonal abuse, and having less of a need for positive relationships than others.\n\nAccording to Dutton, the ten careers that have the highest proportion of psychopaths are: \n\nThe workplace psychopath may show a high number of the following behavioural patterns. The individual behaviours themselves are not exclusive to the workplace psychopath; though the higher number of patterns exhibited the more likely he or she will conform to the psychopath's characteristic profile:\n\nThe authors of the book \"\" describe a five-phase model of how a typical workplace psychopath climbs to and maintains power:\n\nLeading commentators on psychopathy have said that companies inadvertently attract employees who are psychopaths because of the wording of their job advertisements and their desire to engage people who are prepared to do whatever it takes to be successful in business. However, in one case at least, an advert explicitly asked for a sales executive with psychopathic tendencies. The advert title read \"Psychopathic New Business Media Sales Executive Superstar! £50k - £110k\". \n\nCorporate psychopaths are readily recruited into organizations because they make a distinctly positive impression at interviews. They appear to be alert, friendly and easy to get along with and talk to. They look like they are of good ability, emotionally well adjusted and reasonable, and these traits make them attractive to those in charge of hiring staff within organizations. Unlike narcissists, psychopaths are better able to create long-lasting favorable first impressions, though people may still eventually see through their facades. Psychopaths’ undesirable personality traits may be easily misperceived by even skilled interviewers. For instance, their irresponsibility may be misconstrued by employers as risk-taking or entrepreneurial spirit. Their thrill-seeking tendencies may be conveyed as high energy and enthusiasm for the job or work. Their superficial charm may be misinterpreted by interviewers as charisma. It is worth noting that psychopaths are not only accomplished liars, they are also more likely to lie in interviews. For instance, psychopaths may create fictitious work experiences or resumes. They may also fabricate credentials such as diplomas, certifications, or awards. Thus, in addition to seeming competent and likable in interviews, psychopaths are also more likely to outright make-up information during interviews than non-psychopaths.\n\nCorporate psychopaths within organizations may be singled out for rapid promotion because of their polish, charm, and cool decisiveness. They are also helped by their manipulative and bullying skills. They create confusion around them (divide and rule etc.) using instrumental bullying to promote their own agenda.\n\nBoddy identifies the following bad consequences of workplace psychopathy (with additional cites in some cases): \n\nBoddy suggests that because of abusive supervision by corporate psychopaths, large amounts of anti-company feeling will be generated among the employees of the organisations that corporate psychopaths work in. This should result in high levels of counterproductive behaviour as employees give vent to their anger with the corporation, which they perceive to be acting through its corporate psychopathic managers in a way that is eminently unfair to them.\n\nAccording to a 2017 UK study, a high ranking corporate psychopath could trigger lower ranked staff to become workplace bullies as a manifestation of counterproductive work behavior.\n\nBoddy makes the case that corporate psychopaths were instrumental in causing the 2007–08 global financial crisis. He claims that the same corporate psychopaths who probably caused the crisis by greed and avarice are now advising government on how to get out of the crisis.\n\nPsychologist Oliver James has described the credit crunch as a “mass outbreak of corporate psychopathy which resulted in something that very nearly crashed the whole world economy.”\n\nFor example, during the financial crisis, the behaviour of some key people at the top of the world's largest banks came under scrutiny. At the time of its collapse in 2008 the Royal Bank of Scotland was the world's fifth largest bank by market capitalisation. CEO Fred \"the Shred\" Goodwin was known for taking excessive risks and showing little concern for his mismanagement, which led to the bank's collapse. Goodwin's demeanour toward colleagues was unpredictable and he is said to have lived a luxury lifestyle while fostering a culture of fear, such that \"colleagues suspected he was a psychopath\".\n\nRenowned psychotherapist Professor Manfred F. R. Kets de Vries singled out Goodwin and former Barclays CEO Bob Diamond as exhibiting psychopathic behaviours in his working paper on the SOB, \"seductive operational bully - or psychopath lite\"\n\nFrom an organizational perspective, organizations can insulate themselves from the organizational psychopath by taking the following steps when recruiting:\n\nThe following tests could be used to screen psychopaths:\n\nThere have been anecdotal reports that at least one UK bank was using a psychopathy measure to actively recruit psychopaths.\n\nNarcissism, lack of self-regulation, lack of remorse, and lack of conscience have been identified as traits displayed by bullies. These traits are shared with psychopaths, indicating that there is some theoretical\ncross-over between bullies and psychopaths. Bullying is used by corporate psychopaths as a tactic to humiliate subordinates. Bullying is also used as a tactic to scare, confuse and disorient those who may be a threat to the activities of the corporate psychopath. Using meta data analysis on hundred of UK research papers, Boddy concluded that 36% of bullying incidents was caused by the presence of corporate psychopaths. According to Boddy, there are two types of bullying:\n\nA corporate psychopath uses instrumental bullying to further his goals of promotion and power as the result of causing confusion and divide and rule.\n\nPeople with high scores on a psychopathy rating scale are more likely to engage in bullying, crime, and drug use than other people. Hare and Babiak noted that about 29 per cent of corporate psychopaths are also bullies. Other research has also shown that people with high scores on a psychopathy rating scale were more likely to engage in bullying, again indicating that psychopaths tend to be bullies in the workplace.\n\nA workplace bully or abuser will often have issues with social functioning. These types of people often have psychopathic traits that are difficult to identify in the hiring and promotion process. These individuals often lack anger management skills and have a distorted sense of reality. Consequently, when confronted with the accusation of abuse, the abuser is not aware that any harm was done.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21954132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21954132", "title": "Richard Nixon's November 1962 press conference", "text": "Richard Nixon's November 1962 press conference\n\nThe so-called \"last press conference\" of Richard Nixon took place on November 7, 1962, following his loss to Democratic incumbent Pat Brown in the 1962 California gubernatorial election. Appearing before 100 reporters at the Beverly Hilton Hotel, an embittered Nixon lashed out at the media, proclaiming that \"you don't have Nixon to kick around any more, because, gentlemen, this is my last press conference.\"\n\nNixon's electoral loss in his home state, failing to capture what was then a traditionally Republican state which he had carried in the 1960 presidential election, combined with his actions at the press conference, was seen at the time as permanently damaging his chances at playing a role in national politics. While Nixon played almost no role in Barry Goldwater's resounding defeat in the 1964 presidential election, Nixon won the presidency in the 1968 election, making a political comeback that seemed nearly impossible after the \"last press conference.\"\n\nAt the time, California had been considered a reliably Republican stronghold. Following World War II, all of the state's governors and U.S. Senators had been Republican, until Pat Brown was elected Governor of California and Clair Engle was elected U.S. Senator in 1958, bucking the trend.\n\nEisenhower, with Nixon as his vice presidential running mate, had carried California in both 1952 and 1956, and Nixon defeated John F. Kennedy there in the 1960 presidential election. Nixon was widely viewed by the California Republican Party as its best hope for defeating the popular Brown to retake the governor's mansion, itself perceived as a prominent stepping stone for a rematch against Kennedy in 1964.\n\nIn a hard (and bitterly) fought campaign, early polling showed Nixon winning by a significant margin. The polls showed Brown—who made a point of not beginning to campaign until late in the season—closing the margin in the days before the election, but Nixon was still favored to win. Brown won the election, and the 5% margin stunned Nixon and political pundits nationwide.\n\nAs election results came in on Tuesday, November 6, Election Day, Nixon and his staff monitored results at a suite in the Beverly Hilton Hotel, in what was becoming a tighter race than expected. Nixon's press secretary Herbert G. Klein held a news conference at 2:30 a.m. on Wednesday morning, telling the assembled reporters that despite trailing Brown by 90,000 votes at that time, Nixon was going to bed without issuing a concession, as there appeared to be sufficient uncounted votes in reliably Republican Orange County and San Diego County to overturn Brown's margin.\n\nAs the night progressed, the returns showed a tide of additional votes for Brown, who had pulled 250,000 votes ahead of Nixon. By 10 a.m. on Wednesday morning, Nixon sent a congratulatory telegram to Brown that read \"Congratulations on your re-election as Governor. I wish you the best in your great honor and opportunity which you now have to lead the first state in the nation.\" Klein appeared before the press and started his press conference with the announcement that Nixon would not speak to the media. 10 minutes into Klein's press conference, an aide notified him that Nixon would indeed speak to the media.\n\nA tired-looking Nixon spoke with a quavering voice, delivering what was described as a \"15-minute monologue.\" He spent most of the talk criticizing the press, his remarks interrupted only by brief interjections from reporters, though he acknowledged well into his remarks that the Cuban Missile Crisis in October 1962 did not allow his campaign to get his message across during the final two weeks in his election bid. Nixon began his remarks stating that \"now that all the members of the press are so delighted that I have lost, I'd like to make a statement of my own.\" Nixon insisted that the press had attacked him since 1948 following the Alger Hiss case. He said: \"I leave you gentlemen now. And you will now write it. You will interpret it. That's your right. But as I leave you, I want you to know: just think how much you're going to be missing. You don’t have Nixon to kick around anymore. Because, gentlemen, this is my last press conference.\" He accused the press of printing articles supporting their favored candidates, stating that while they may \"give... the shaft\" to future candidates, they should have \"one lonely reporter on the campaign who will report what the candidate says now and then\". Nixon reserved praise for Carl Greenberg of \"The Los Angeles Times\" who he felt \"wrote every word I said\". Also praised was Edwin Tetlow of \"The Daily Telegraph\" of London.\n\nHaving seen Nixon's remarks, Brown was quoted as stating \"That's something Nixon's going to regret all his life. The press is never going to let him forget it.\" As described in his obituary in \"The New York Times\", Nixon's farewell-to-politics speech made him appear to be a sore loser violating a cardinal rule of U.S. politics, so that it seemed to indicate \"that his political career was over\".\n\nFive days after the election, Howard K. Smith hosted a documentary titled \"The Political Obituary of Richard Nixon\", broadcast as a half-hour special by ABC as part of its \"\" series. The panelists discussing Nixon's demise were Murray Chotiner and Gerald Ford, who regretted Nixon's departure from politics. Jerry Voorhis, whom Nixon had defeated in a 1946 congressional run, criticized Nixon's tactics in that campaign. Alger Hiss discussed his bitterness at how Nixon had used him to advance his own career at Hiss's expense. While the program was on the air, angry callers clogged the ABC switchboard with complaints, many criticizing the decision to include Hiss, a convicted perjurer, to comment on Nixon. Ultimately, ABC received 80,000 letters and telegrams, almost all of which were critical of the network's special and its choice of panelists.\n\nThe partisan nature of Smith's broadcast may well have been the start of Nixon's rehabilitation and ascent towards the presidency, with former Governor of New York and presidential candidate Thomas E. Dewey writing to Nixon on November 15, that \"It seems to me that Howard K. Smith has been quite helpful, unwittingly.\" Noting that many people were outraged by the broadcast, Dewey went on to say that \"Smith has proved you were right in your comments about the press\".\n\nNixon never showed any remorse for his remarks, instead feeling that the benefits outweighed any possible repercussions, noting in his memoirs that:\n\n\"I have never regretted what I said in 'the last press conference.' I believe that it gave the media a warning that I would not sit back and take whatever biased coverage was dished out to me. I think the episode was partially responsible for the much fairer treatment I received from the press during the next few years. From that point of view alone, it was worth it.\"\n\nThe \"last press conference\" has become a generic term for a politician's valedictory address, one in which all possibilities for future political activity are being abandoned. Alternatively, a politician speaking to the press after an electoral loss who does plan to continue in politics will state that this is not a \"last press conference.\"\n\nIn an editorial, \"The New York Times\" noted Gary Hart's statement following his withdrawal from the 1988 Democratic Party presidential process, in which he stated that he was \"angry and defiant\" at a system that \"reduces the press of this nation to hunter and Presidential candidates to being hunted\", likening his remarks to Nixon's \"last press conference.\"\n\nDan Quayle, effectively conceding defeat to Republican rival George W. Bush in the party's 2000 presidential primaries, noted his relative youth and stated that \"I seriously doubt if this will be my last press conference.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1080268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1080268", "title": "Roger W. Ferguson Jr.", "text": "Roger W. Ferguson Jr.\n\nRoger W. Ferguson Jr. (born October 28, 1951 in Washington, D.C.) is an American economist, who was Vice Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System from 1999 to 2006, and has served as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association - College Retirement Equities Fund (TIAA) since April, 2008. In June, 2016, Alphabet Inc. appointed Roger W. Ferguson Jr. to its board of directors.\n\nFerguson received a B.A. in economics \"magna cum laude\" in 1973, a J.D. \"cum laude\" in 1979, and a Ph.D. in economics in 1981, all from Harvard University. From 1973 to 1974, he attended Pembroke College at Cambridge University on a Frank Knox Memorial Fellowship. In 2004 Ferguson was elected to an Honorary Fellowship there. In addition, he has honorary degrees from Lincoln College (Illinois), Webster University, Washington and Jefferson College, Michigan State University, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, St. Lawrence University, University of Maryland, Baltimore County, Georgetown University, Metropolitan College of New York, Wabash College, Colby College, Lincoln University (Pennsylvania), Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and Stevens Institute of Technology.\n\nIn 2016, Ferguson received the Harvard Medal, awarded annually by the Harvard Alumni Association for service to Harvard.\n\nFerguson is also a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a Member of the American Philosophical Society.\n\nFrom 1981 to 1984, Ferguson was an attorney at the New York City office of Davis Polk & Wardwell, where he worked with commercial banks, investment banks, and Fortune 500 corporations on syndicated loans, public offerings, mergers and acquisitions, and new product development.\n\nFerguson was a partner at McKinsey & Company. He was based in New York City from 1984 to 1997, and managed a variety of studies for financial institutions. Dr. Ferguson also served as Director of Research and Information Systems, overseeing a staff of 400 research professionals and managing the firm's investments in knowledge management technologies.\n\nFrom November, 1997, until his appointment as Vice Chairman in October, 1999, he served as a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.\n\nAs Vice Chairman, among other duties, Ferguson represented the Federal Reserve in international policy groups. Between July 1998 and March 2000, Ferguson served as Chairman of the Joint Y2K Council. The Council, supported by the Bank for International Settlements, was formed to address issues associated with the Year 2000 computer challenge within the global financial supervisory community.\n\nFerguson also served as Chairman of the Group of Ten Working Party on Financial Sector Consolidation. Formed in September 1999 at the request of the finance ministers and central bank governors of the G-10, the Working Party examined the causes of consolidation in the financial sector and its potential effects. The Working Party released its final report on January 25, 2001.\n\nDuring 2003, Ferguson became the Chairman of the Committee on the Global Financial System (CGFS), a central bank panel that monitors and examines broad issues related to financial markets and systems. He also became the Chairman of the Financial Stability Forum (FSF), which promotes international financial stability through information exchange and international cooperation in financial supervision and surveillance. The Forum brings together on a regular basis national authorities responsible for financial stability in significant international financial centers. In his role as Chairman of the CGFS, Ferguson monitored financial markets and reported on financial conditions and financial stability to the Group of Ten (G10) Central Bank Governors. As Chairman of the FSF, Ferguson had a similar monitoring and reporting role for the Group of Seven (also known as the G-7) Finance Ministers and Central Bank Governors. He also presented an opening statement at the semi-annual meetings of the International Monetary and Financial Committee of the International Monetary Fund.\n\nOn October 11, 2005, Lawrence Kudlow stated that his belief that Alan Greenspan was pushing Ferguson's name to the Bush Administration for the appointment of the Federal Reserve Chairmanship. As a supply-side economist, Kudlow said he was worried that Ferguson would follow a Neo-Keynesian policy and would oppose the Bush Administration's economic policy. On October 25, 2005, \"The Washington Post\" reported that senior members at the Federal Reserve, including Alan Greenspan, were encouraging the Bush Administration to appoint Ferguson to the Federal Reserve Chairmanship. The position eventually went to Ben Bernanke \n\nOn February 22, 2006, Ferguson sent his resignation letter to President George W. Bush. His resignation came into effect on April 28, 2006.\n\nOn June 19, 2006, Swiss Re announced his appointment as Chairman of Swiss Re America Holding Corporation and Member of Swiss Re's Executive Board. On October 3, 2006, Swiss Re announced his appointment as Head of Financial Services and Member of Swiss Re's Executive Committee.\n\nOn April 4, 2008, Roger W. Ferguson Jr. was named the new President and Chief Executive Officer of the Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association - College Retirement Equities Fund (TIAA), succeeding Herbert M. Allison, effective April 14, 2008.\n\nIn 2010, Ferguson became a member of the Board of Directors of International Flavors and Fragrances, a leading creator and manufacturer of flavors and fragrances. In 2015, Ferguson became a member of the Board of Directors of General Mills. He was also a member of the Board of Directors of Audax Health, a start-up that blends social media with health care, until 2014, when Audax Health was sold to Optum.\n\nOn June 29, 2016, Ferguson became a member of Board of Directors of Alphabet Inc.\n\nRoger W. Ferguson Jr. has a history of serving as a member of several not-for-profit boards. Currently he serves as Chairman of the Conference Board and a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute for Advanced Study and the Board of Trustees of the Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. Ferguson also serves as a Regent of the Smithsonian Institution, having been approved in 2017 by both Houses of Congress for a six-year term.\n\nFormerly, Ferguson was Co-Chairman of the Committee for Economic Development. He was also Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Economic Club of New York and of the Business Higher Education Forum. Ferguson was also a member of the Board of Overseers of Harvard University, serving as President during 2008-2009, an elected member of the Board of Directors of the Harvard Alumni Association, a Trustee of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, the National Bureau of Economic Research and the New America Foundation. Ferguson also served as Treasurer of the Friends of Education, a Trustees' Committee of The Museum of Modern Art.\n\nFerguson is also active in higher education policy discussion groups, serving in 2016 and 2017 as co-chairman of the Commission on the Future of Undergraduate Education (sponsored by the American Academy of Arts and Sciences). He was formerly a member of both the Commission on the Future of Graduate Education (sponsored by the Council of Graduate Schools) and the Commission on the Humanities and Social Sciences (sponsored by the American Academy of Arts and Sciences).\n\nFerguson is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, a member and trustee of the Group of Thirty and a member of the International Advisory Council of the China Banking Regulatory Commission. He participated in the Bilderberg Conferences in 2016, 2017 and 2018.\n\nFerguson is married to former United States Securities and Exchange Commission Commissioner Annette Nazareth, and they have two children.\n\nFerguson was the only Federal Reserve Governor in Washington, D.C. during the September 11 attacks in 2001. He was responsible for leading the Federal Reserve's initial response to the terrorist attacks and was praised for his expert handling of the crisis. \nWhile at the Fed, Ferguson led two working groups to improve the transparency of Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) decisions and the clarity of FOMC communication. These resulted in the release of a statement at the end of each FOMC meeting, explaining the rationale for the interest rate decision and including an assessment of the risks facing the economy. ()\n\nWhile at the Fed, Ferguson served as Chairman of the Group of Ten Working Party on Financial Sector Consolidation. The Working Party released its final report on January 25, 2001.\n\nWhile at the Fed, Ferguson led the Federal Reserve's efforts to modernize the national retail payment system of the United States. This ultimately resulted in the passage and signing into law of the Check Clearing for the 21st Century Act, which is also known as Check 21. The law allows the recipient of the original paper check to create a digital version of the original check, a process known as check truncation, into an electronic format called a \"substitute check\", thereby eliminating the need for further handling of the physical document.\n\nAlan Greenspan has called Ferguson \"one of the most effective Vice Chairmen in the history of the Federal Reserve.\"\n\nFerguson proposed the idea of a journal dedicated to central banking theory and practice. The resulting International Journal of Central Banking was announced in 2004 and first published in 2005, with two objectives: to disseminate widely the best policy-relevant research on central banking and to promote communication among central banks. The IJCB has more than 50 sponsoring institutions.\n\nWith three co-authors, in November 2007 Ferguson published \"International Financial Stability\", Geneva Report No. 9, dealing with challenges to global financial stability and including observations regarding the liquidity crisis of 2007. \nFerguson served as the vice chairman of the Group of 30 study group that published \"The Structure of Financial Supervision: Approaches and Challenges in a Global Marketplace\". The study of the regulatory structure of 17 jurisdictions was released on October 6, 2008.\n\nFerguson served as chairman of the Group of 30 study group that published \"Enhancing Financial Stability and Resilience: Macroprudential Policy, Tools and Systems for the Future\". The study called on public officials to empower systemic regulators with new tools to enhance the stability and resilience of the global financial system and potentially lessen the severity of future crises. The study was released on October 10, 2010.\n\nBetween 2008 and 2012, Ferguson served as economic advisor to President Obama, initially as a member of the President-elect's Transition Economic Advisory Board and subsequently as a member of the President's Economic Recovery Advisory Board and the President's Commission on Jobs and Competitiveness\n\nFerguson served as chairman of the Group of 30 study group that published \"Toward Effective Governance of Financial Institutions\". The study, which has been translated into three languages. made several concrete and practical recommendations to enhance governance of financial institutions, including recommendations for management, boards of directors, supervisors and shareholders. The study was released on April 12, 2012.\n\nFerguson served as co-chairman of the Group of 30 study group that published \"Banking Conduct and Culture: A Call for Sustained and Comprehensive Reform\". Following two previous reports, the study expands on the role of conduct and culture in the governance of the world's largest financial institutions. The report identifies shortcomings but also good practice in promoting a strong banking culture, making a series of recommendations that can be drawn upon by leaders as they seek to address culture in their firms. The study was released July, 2015.\n\nBetween 2010 and 2012, Ferguson co-chaired a National Research Council panel on the Long-Run Macro-Economic Effects of the Aging U.S. Population. The final report was issued in September, 2012, under the title, \"Aging and the Macroeconomy: Long-Term Implications of an Older Population\".\n\nIn 2014 and 2015, Ferguson served as a member of the Panel of Economic Advisers for the Congressional Budget Office.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30321368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30321368", "title": "Royal County of Berkshire Show", "text": "Royal County of Berkshire Show\n\nThe Royal County of Berkshire Show is an annual agricultural show in Berkshire, England that started in 1909 at Enborne Gate Farm, Newbury, as a horse show and has now grown to be a significant event for the farming world.\n\nThe Newbury and District Agricultural Society was formed in 1909 to run the show and continues to do so. \n\nThere were three breaks in the 20th Century when no show took place. Between 1914 and 1918 during the First World War, between 1928 and 1935 during the farming depression and again during the Second World War 1939 to 1945. Since then the Show has grown to become one of the leading agricultural shows in the country.\n\nThe show takes place over two days in September at the permanent showground near Chieveley.\n"}
{"id": "32611432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32611432", "title": "Ruby Murders", "text": "Ruby Murders\n\nThe Ruby Murders is the popular name for three separate incidents involving the deaths of six American citizens at or near the town of Ruby, Arizona. The first incident occurred in February 1920 when Mexican bandits, thought to be Villistas, robbed and killed the two owners of the Ruby Mercantile. A second attack happened fourteen months later in April 1921 when again Mexican bandits killed the store's owners and robbed the place. Two of the bandits were arrested for the crime, but they briefly escaped custody in July 1922, after killing another two men, which led to the largest manhunt in the history of the Southwest.\n\nThe mining town of Ruby was established in Bear Valley during the 1870s and was a haven for cattle rustlers and other criminals for most of its Old West history. A typical town of the era, Ruby was very small and its one general store was the sole business other than mining. The store, called the Ruby Mercantile, was originally built sometime in the late 1880s, but also served as the post office when it opened in 1912. In 1914, the mercantile was purchased by Philip C. Clarke, who later built a larger store a short distance from the original. The second building was an adobe structure, the remains of which have been preserved.\n\nDue to the outbreak of the Mexican Revolution in 1910, and the town's close proximity to the international border, Ruby was harassed by bandits and or rebels on many occasions. Rebels loyal to Pancho Villa, a famed border bandit and revolutionary, were active throughout the Mexican territory opposite of the Arizona border. The area was one of the hardest hit during the civil war, which fueled the lawlessness. By 1920 the town was declining, but it was still considered quite dangerous; the inhabitants were instructed to be heavily armed at all times. Clarke felt the area was so dangerous that he kept either a pistol or a rifle in each room of his house and the store.\n\nIn February 1920, Clarke sold the mercantile to John and Alexander Frazer before moving his family to the nearby settlement of Oro Blanco. \nEleven days after closing the deal with Clarke, on February 27, 1920, the Frazer brothers were both shot during a robbery of the store. Alexander was found lying on the floor near the cash register. He had been shot twice; one bullet wound was found in Alexander's head and the second in his back. John was found nearby. He was still alive, but unconscious, having been hit in the left eye by one bullet. He died five hours later without regaining consciousness. An investigation by police found that the bandits, later identified as Ezequiel Lara and Manuel Garcia, had robbed the place and cut the wires for the town's only telephone, which was located in the store. The police discovered two sets of footprints and also learned from the townspeople that two unknown Mexicans had been seen in the area. A local rancher reported that two of his best horses and eight of his cattle had been stolen at or near the same date, making the police assume the incidents were related. The Nogales newspaper \"Weekly Oasis\" said that the \ntragedy is nothing new over there. In the wild and rugged region south from the Atascosa Mountains and the Bear Valley region, there has been always a harbor for a bunch of desperate characters, whose depredations have been felt by American cattlemen and ranchers through many years.\nA posse led by Sheriff Raymond Earhardt was sent south along the bandit's trail, but they failed to catch up with the suspects. Months passed, during which time very little progress was made in the investigation. Finally, in October 1920, Garcia was killed during a gunfight with Pima County deputy sheriffs near Twin Buttes. Lara was eventually arrested in Mexico and jailed for crimes south of the border, but was never called to answer for his role in the Fraser killings.\n\nThe second incident occurred in August 1921 following the transfer of the mercantile's ownership to a Mr. and Mrs. Frank Pearson, who lived in the store with their three daughters. Although Mr. Pearson was told about the previous killings and the situation on the border, he felt that a second attack on the store was unlikely to happen. However, on the morning of April 26, Frank and his wife Myrtle took a horseback ride into the surrounding hills and while doing so they spotted a group of seven Mexicans riding towards the town. The two thought that the Mexicans would likely want to visit the mercantile so they rode back to service them. When the Mexicans entered the store they asked for tobacco, but as soon as Mr. Pearson turned around to get it the bandits drew their pistols and fired into his back. Pearson was mortally wounded by two bullets, but he managed to grab his pistol under the counter and fire three shots wildly before dying.\n\nAfter that the murderers turned their attention to Myrtle, who had five gold teeth. First, one bandit shot Myrtle in the neck to stop her from screaming and then he knocked out her gold teeth with his pistol. She was then shot a second time in the head and killed. Frank's daughter Elizabeth was also grazed in the arm, but other than that the three young girls were left unharmed. The Mexicans left after they emptied the safe and destroyed the telephone. They then rode out of town yelling and firing their guns in the air. When the Mexicans were gone the Pearson girls fled eight miles away to the nearest neighbor. This time when authorities were called for and ambulance was sent from Nogales, which tended to Elizabeth's wounds. Meanwhile, a large posse of citizens and lawmen began searching the surrounding desert. A United States Army biplane from the garrison at Nogales was also dispatched to participate in the search and it became the first aircraft to be used for a manhunt in the history of Arizona. A $5,000 bounty, dead or alive, was also authorized for each of the seven Mexicans, partly due to the fact that the gang was suspected of being responsible for the first robbery.\n\nA few months later, after the manhunt had ended unsuccessfully, the authorities received news that two men in a Sonora cantina had bragged about being responsible for robbing the Ruby Mercantile. American police investigated the claim, but it wasn't until April 1922 that any arrests were made. By chance, an Arizona deputy sheriff overheard a conversation between the bartender and a customer at a cantina in Sasabe, Sonora; the bartender was trying to sell five gold teeth he had acquired sometime earlier by an outlaw named Manuel Martinez. When the deputy saw the teeth, he was sure they belonged to Myrtle so he bought them and took them back to the United States. Martinez was known for associating with a Mexican named Placidio Silvas, who lived near Oro Blanco, so the two were arrested and put on trial for murder in May 1922. Both were found guilty of murder by the court of Santa Cruz County. Martinez was sentenced to be hanged and Silvas received a life sentence to be served at the state prison in Florence. However, on July 13, while they were being transported in a police car, the two prisoners managed to break free after Sheriff George White wrecked the car he and deputy L.A. Smith were transporting the prisoners in. The police car was found later that day, rolled into a ditch near Continental, with the bodies of White and Smith nearby. White was killed at the scene, but Smith was still alive and taken to a hospital, where he died of his wounds.\n\nThe men who found White and Smith trailed the outlaws across the Santa Rita Mountains, but they lost track of them near Ruby due to a monsoon. The Arizona public was shocked about this latest double homicide so over 700 volunteers from Pima, Pinal, Cochise and Santa Cruz counties formed posses for the largest manhunt in the history of the Southwest. Initially, Martinez and Silvas evaded the search parties, but, six days after escaping, search dogs uncovered a blood stained file, which put the posses back on the bandits' trail. That same day, Martinez and Silvas were found hiding under some brush in the Tumacacori Mountains, about seventy miles from the site where the two had escaped custody. The two Mexicans were re-tried in court and found guilty again, but the Mexican consul appealed the court's decision and obtained a writ, which delayed the case. Finally, the Supreme Court intervened and the matter was settled. Martinez was sentenced to death and executed by hanging on August 10, 1923. Silvas was put into prison at Florence, but he later escaped in 1928, never to be seen again.\n\nThe Ruby Murders have been covered by a number of historians, including Al Ring, Bob Ring and Talia Cahoon in their 2005 history of Ruby, \"Ruby Arizona: Mining, Mayhem and Murder.\" Samuel K. Dolan's non-fiction history of law enforcement in the Southwest during the 1920s and 1930s, \"Cowboys and Gangsters: Stories of an Untamed Southwest,\" also includes a chapter on the Ruby murders and the manhunts for the killers of the Frasers and Pearsons.\n\n"}
{"id": "36576604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36576604", "title": "Rwanda Film Festival", "text": "Rwanda Film Festival\n\nThe Rwanda Film Festival is a film festival held annually in July in Kigali, Rwanda. The Rwanda Film Festival gained worldwide recognition over the past years and has become one of Africa's major film events.\n\nThe Rwanda Film Festival was founded in 2005 by Eric Kabera. Presented by the Rwanda Cinema Center, an organization that aims to promote the country's film industry, the Rwanda Film Festival, nicknamed \"Hillywood\" due to Rwanda's nickname of \"Land of a Thousand Hills\", is a travelling festival. Due to Kabera's desire to show the films to as large of an audience as possible, the festival is held not only in the capital of Kigali, but the films, especially ones made by Rwandan film-makers, are also shown on large inflatable screens in rural areas throughout the country. More recently, Kabera has stated that the festival will make a move away from focusing only on the issue of the genocide; rather \"other social issues\" of modern Rwanda will be explored.\n\nThe Silverback Awards were launched after the Silverback Sponsorship from London firm Hard Media with the Rwanda Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "22537826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22537826", "title": "Scumrun", "text": "Scumrun\n\nThe Scumrun is an annual charitable event in the form of a road rally from the United Kingdom to mystery destinations around Europe. It has been running since 2006, originally as the Scumball 3000.\n\nVehicles with a maximum purchase price of £500 – but often significantly upgraded by the teams of one or more drivers and passengers – are taken to a launch party in the UK before being taken by ferry to mainland Europe.\n\nOn each day a destination (plus, usually, intermediate checkpoints) is announced, but only to drivers who pass a breathalyser test to ensure their blood alcohol level is below the legal maximum to drive. At the end of each day those not driving in the morning participate in celebrations.\n\nMuch of the driving and celebrating is recorded for the purposes of producing a DVD which is used to encourage further teams to participate in future years. Media coverage is found in publications such as Fast Car and Men and Motors, highlighting the antics and money raised for much needed charities.\n\nCommunications are maintained between many of the cars using CB radios.\n\nTypical vehicles include older BMW 5 and 7 Series, Mercedes-Benz W123 and W124 E-class and W126 S-class, Jaguar XJ models, and an assortment of Japanese sports cars. There have also been oddities such as black cab taxis and fire engines.\n\nNo other road event raises as much sponsorship via the combined efforts of its participants.\n\n\n\nScumball 3000 was the brainchild of Edward White (Managing Director) who created the event to assist National Children's charities in raising much needed funds to continue with the support they offer. The event provides a unique format that ensures the participants receive professional care and organisation throughout resulting in high repeat custom compared to similar events. Scumrun sells out each year and works closely with border crossing agencies as well as ferry operators to ensure the route is well planned and tested whilst providing support during the event itself to all participants where possible.\n\nThe name had to be changed from Scumball 3000 when the organisers of the Gumball 3000 complained, despite there being a clear distinction between the events with the Gumball 3000 involving extremely valuable sports cars and Scumrun raising vast amounts for charities each year.\n\nThe Scumrun logo was trademarked following the name change and due to the popularity of the event the company have had to take the protection of their brand / event very seriously which sometimes includes legal advice in resolving conflicts from similar events.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50860254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50860254", "title": "Sexual harassment in the workplace in the United States", "text": "Sexual harassment in the workplace in the United States\n\nSexual harassment in the workplace in US labor law has been considered a form of discrimination on the basis of sex in the United States since the mid-1970s. There are two forms of sexual harassment recognized by United States law: quid pro quo sexual harassment (requiring an employee to tolerate sexual harassment to keep their job, receive a tangible benefit, or avoid punishment) and behavior that creates a hostile work environment (persistent sexual behavior that unreasonably interferes with an employee's ability to work). It has been noted that a number of the early sexual harassment cases were brought by African American women and girls.\n\nThe term \"sexual harassment\" was coined and popularized by Lin Farley in 1975, based on a pattern she recognized during a 1974 Cornell University class she taught on women and work. It's been noted that a number of the original sexual harassment cases were on behalf of black women and girls.\n\nUnited States law recognizes two forms of sexual harassment:\n\n\nIn the US, the Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibits employment discrimination based on race, sex, color, national origin or religion. Initially only intended to combat sexual harassment of women, (42 U.S.C. § 2000e-2) the prohibition of sex discrimination covers both females and males. This discrimination occurs when the sex of the worker is made as a condition of employment (i.e. all female waitpersons or male carpenters) or where this is a job requirement that does not mention sex but ends up preventing many more persons of one sex than the other from the job (such as height and weight limits). This act only applies to employers with 15 or more employees.\n\nIn 1980, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) issued regulations defining sexual harassment and stating it was a form of sex discrimination prohibited by the Civil Rights Act of 1964. \n\nThe Civil Rights Act of 1991 added provisions to Title VII protections including expanding the rights of women to sue and collect compensatory and punitive damages for sexual discrimination or harassment\n\n\"Barnes v. Train\" (1974) is commonly viewed as the first sexual harassment case in America, even though the term \"sexual harassment\" was not used. Paulette Barnes, an African American woman, was a payroll clerk who worked for the Environmental Protection Agency. She brought the case after losing her job for refusing the advances of a male supervisor. The case was dismissed, but was appealed in \"Barnes v Costle\" (1977).\n\nIn 1976, \"Williams v. Saxbe\" was the first case in a U.S. District Court to establish that quid pro quo sexual harassment constitutes sex discrimination under the Civil Rights Act of 1964. A male supervisor was found to have retaliated against Diane R. Williams by firing her after she refused to have sex with him. The court found that it was form of sex discrimination when a condition of employment is to submit to the sexual advances of a superior. Additionally, there was evidence that other female employees had been subjected to similar conditions. It was ruled that William B. Saxbe had only required women to submit to his advances, which created an artificial barrier to employment for one gender but not the other.\n\n\"Williams v Saxbe\" established a clear-cut type of sexual harassment, quid pro quo, and was the first to establish it in a U.S. District Court. In response to the findings of this case, several earlier decisions against sex discrimination in lower courts were reversed on appeal, including \"Barnes v Train.\" \n\nAlthough \"Barnes v. Train\" (1974) was initially dismissed, Paulette Barnes won on appeal in \"Barnes v. Costle\" (1977). During this case, the District of Columbia Court of Appeals ruled it was sex discrimination for a woman to suffer tangible employment losses (for example losing her job) for refusing to submit to requests for sexual favors. The appeals ruling was based in part on the \"Williams v. Saxbe\" (1976) decision. The court also found that companies are liable for not stopping sexual harassment if they know it is being conducted by supervisors. As part of the ruling of \"Barnes v. Costle,\" Barnes received around $18,000 for back pay and the loss of promotions.\n\nIn the 1986 case of \"Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson\", the Supreme Court first recognized \"sexual harassment\" as a violation of Title VII, established the standards for analyzing whether the conduct was welcome and levels of employer liability, and that speech or conduct in itself can create a \"hostile environment\". This case filed by Mechelle Vinson ruled that the sexual conduct between the subordinate and supervisor could not be deemed voluntary due to the hierarchical relationship between the two positions in the workplace. Following the ruling of Meritor Savings Bank v. Vinson, reported sexual harassment cases grew from 10 cases being registered by the EEOC per year before 1896 to 624 case being reported in the subsequent following year. This number of reported cases to the EEOC rose to 2,217 in 1990 and then 4,626 by 1995.\n\nThe case of \"Ellison v. Brady\" resulted in rejecting the reasonable person standard in favor of the \"reasonable woman standard\" which allowed for cases to be analyzed from the perspective of the complainant and not the defendant. \n\nAlso in 1991, \"Jenson v. Eveleth Taconite Co.\" became the first sexual harassment case to be given class action status paving the way for others.\n\nSeven years later, in 1998, through that same case, new precedents were established that increased the limits on the \"discovery\" process in sexual harassment cases, that then allowed psychological injuries from the litigation process to be included in assessing damages awards. \n\nIn the same year, the courts concluded in \"Faragher v. City of Boca Raton, Florida\", and \"Burlington v. Ellerth\", that employers are liable for harassment by their employees. \n\nMoreover, \"Oncale v. Sundowner Offshore Services\" set the precedent for same-sex harassment, and sexual harassment without motivation of \"sexual desire\", stating that any discrimination based on sex is actionable so long as it places the victim in an objectively disadvantageous working condition, regardless of the gender of either the victim, or the harasser.\n\nIn the 2006 case of \"Burlington Northern & Santa Fe Railway Co. v. White\", the standard for retaliation against a sexual harassment complainant was revised to include any adverse employment decision or treatment that would be likely to dissuade a \"reasonable worker\" from making or supporting a charge of discrimination.\n\nThe 2010 case, \"Reeves v. C.H. Robinson Worldwide, Inc.\" ruled that a hostile work environment can be created in a workplace where sexually explicit language and pornography are present. A hostile workplace may exist based upon the treatment of employees as a group, even if it is not targeted at any particular employee.\n\nDuring 2007 alone, the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and related state agencies received 12,510 new charges of sexual harassment on the job.\n\nFrom 2010 through 2016, men made approximately 17% of sexual harassment complaints filed with the EEOC.\n\nIn a 2017 MSN poll it was found that 31% of people in the U.S have been sexually harassed in the workplace; 45% of women said they were sexually harassed and 15% percent of men said they were.\n\nThe California legislature in Sacramento is known to have paid at least $850,000 in sexual harassment settlements in the period 1996-2017, though the New York Times notes often settlements are unknown to the public because of the terms of the settlements themselves. The U.S. Congress paid $17 million between the 1990s and 2017 in settlements for sexual harassment and for discrimination.\n\n"}
{"id": "47999390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47999390", "title": "Stefan Grimm", "text": "Stefan Grimm\n\nStefan Grimm (1963 - 2014) was a biologist who held a Chair in Toxicology at Imperial College London. He worked on signalling cascades in the development of tumors.\n\nGrimm was found dead in Northwood, Middlesex on 25 September 2014 after being told that he was \"struggling to fulfil the metrics\" of a professorial post by his head of department. The coroner described his death as \"needless\".\n\nGrimm studied for his PhD under the supervision of Patrick Bäuerle at the University of Tübingen, working on the role of NFκB in cell transformation and apoptosis. From 1995 to 1998 he was postdoctoral fellow with Philip Leder at Harvard University, he then took up a junior post as a group leader at the Max Planck Institute of Biochemistry. In 2004 he moved to Imperial College London, where he was appointed Professor of Toxicology.\n\nGrimm's research programme focused primarily on apoptosis, signalling pathways, and tumour-genesis. Here, he made fundamental contributions to the understanding of the molecular and cellular mechanisms of cell death in connection with the development of cancer. In 20 years, he published 50 journal articles, two books, and filed 5 patent applications.\n\nGrimm was found dead at his home in Middlesex on 25 September 2014 with typed notes next to his body. His inquest subsequently ruled that he took his life by asphyxiation. One month after his death, on 21 October, an email with the subject line \"How Professors are treated at Imperial College\", apparently set to deliver on a delay timer, was sent from the address \"professorstefangrimm@gmail.com\" to senior members of the medical faculty.\n\nIn the email Grimm, describes how his head of department told him that although he had submitted the highest number of grant applications in the medical faculty, and despite already acquiring £135,000 in grant income, he needed to obtain a programme grant or '\"start to give serious consideration as to whether you are performing at the expected level of a Professor at Imperial College.\"'\nIn his last email Grimm had this to say of the senior staff in his faculty:\"These formidable leaders are playing an interesting game: They hire scientists from other countries to submit the work that they did abroad under completely different conditions for the Research Assessment that is supposed to gauge the performance of British universities. Afterwards they leave them alone to either perform with grants or being kicked out. Even if your work is submitted to this Research Assessment and brings in money for the university, you are targeted if your grant income is deemed insufficient. Those submitted to the research assessment hence support those colleagues who are unproductive but have grants. Grant income is all that counts here, not scientific output.\"Of Imperial College London he said, \"This is not a university anymore but a business with [a] very few up in the hierarchy... profiteering [while] the rest of us are milked for money, be it professors for their grant income or students who pay 100 pounds just to extend their write-up status.\"The Rector of Imperial College, Alice Gast gave credence to Grimm's analogy, when she described university professors as \"really like small business owners... they have their own research and they have their research funding to look after.\"\n\nOn 1 December, David Colquhoun, Emeritus Professor of Pharmacology at UCL and long-time critic of managerialism and research assessment in British Universities wrote a blog post entitled \"“Publish and perish at Imperial College London: the death of Stefan Grimm.\"\" Colquhoun published both Grimm's email and the emails sent by his head of department. The post was viewed 196,000 times in the year after Grimm's death. The day after it was posted it Colquhoun's web server received so many page requests it failed.\n\nColquhoun described Imperial's performance targets as \"a recipe for short term, unoriginal research. It’s an incentive to cut corners... It is a prostitution of science.\"\n\nOn 4 December, Imperial issued a statement via Caroline Davis, its Communications and Public Affairs Reporter. The statement expressed sadness at the \"tragic loss\" of Professor Grimm and reported that \"senior colleagues have offered their deepest condolences to Stefan’s family on behalf of the college and all those affected by this tragedy\". The statement denied \"claims appearing on the internet...[that] Professor Grimm's work was ... under formal review [or that]... he had been given any notice of dismissal.\"\n\nImperial commissioned an internal review into its performance management procedures, commenting:\"Professor Grimm had been under review in the informal process for nearly two years. His line manager was using this period to help Professor Grimm obtain funding or alternative work (the review panel saw evidence of the efforts made in this regard). The subsequent formal process would have involved a minimum of two formal meetings with time to improve in-between formal meetings before consideration would have been given to the termination of Professor Grimm’s employment. Understandably there is a reluctance to move into formal hearings, particularly when the member of staff is hard working and diligent, but the formal stages would have provided more clarity to Professor Grimm on process and support through the written documentation, representation at meetings and HR involvement.\"\"It is recommended that the new capability procedure and ordinance include greater clarity on timescales for informal action and how this might operate in different roles.\"Colquhoun commented: \"It seems to be absurd to describe...[the head of department's email]... as an attempt to 'help' Professor Grimm. It was a direct threat to the livelihood of a competent 51 year-old full professor. Having flow charts for the bullying would not have helped.\"\n"}
{"id": "23396910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23396910", "title": "Systemic problem", "text": "Systemic problem\n\nA systemic problem is a problem due to issues inherent in the overall system,\nrather than due to a specific, individual, isolated factor. Contrast with pilot error, user error, or mistake.\n\nA change to the structure, organization or policies in that system could alleviate the systemic problem. On an Ishikawa diagram (fishbone diagram) of cause-and-effect links, the source of the problem can be said to be a common cause, rather than a special cause.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34385635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34385635", "title": "The Assassin of Rome", "text": "The Assassin of Rome\n\nThe Assassin of Rome () is a 1972 Italian historical drama film directed by Damiano Damiani. The film tells, with some historical licenses, the story of Gino Girolimoni, wrongfully accused of a series of child murders that occurred in Rome between 1924 and 1928.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26162979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26162979", "title": "Triplemanía XVI", "text": "Triplemanía XVI\n\nTriplemanía XVI was the sixteenth Triplemanía professional wrestling show scripted and produced by Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA). The show took place on June 13, 2008 in Mexico City, Mexico. The show was available on pay-per-view (PPV) in Mexico, the first Triplemanía show to be offered on PPV. The main event featured a singles match for the AAA Mega Championship. Champion Cibernético defended against El Zorro.\n\nThe show also featured the surprise return of Silver King, who teamed up with Chessman and La Parka, only to lose to \"La Legión Extranjera\" (Bobby Lashley, Electroshock and Kenzo Suzuki) in the semi-main event of the show. The show also included a hardcore match between Vampiro and El Mesías, as well as a \"Lucha de Apuestas\", or \"bet match\", where sisters Faby Apache and Mari Apache both put their hair on the line for the match. The show include four additional matches.\n\nIn early 1992 Antonio Peña was working as a booker and storyline writer for Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL), Mexico's largest and the world's oldest wrestling promotion, and was frustrated by CMLL's very conservative approach to \"lucha libre\". He joined forced with a number of younger, very talented wrestlers who felt like CMLL was not giving them recognition they deserved and decided to split from CMLL to create Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA, or Triple A; Spanish for \"Assistance, Assessment, and Administration\"). After making a deal with the Televisa television network AAA held their first show in April, 1992. The following year Peña and AAA held their first Triplemanía event, building it into an annual event that would become AAA's Super Bowl event, similar to the WWE's WrestleMania being the biggest show of the year. The 2009 Triplemanía was the 16th year in a row AAA held a Triplemanía show and the 21st overall show under the Triplemanía banner.\n\nUp until Triplemanía XVI, the Triplemanía shows were taped for television broadcast, televised weeks after the show as part of AAA's regular television series. Triplemanía XVI was the first AAA show to also be offered as a pay-per-view (PPV) service on Mexican PPV channels. While PPV broadcasts of major events was common in the United States, going back to the mid-1980s, Mexican wrestling promotions only intermittently offered PPV options for their major shows prior to 2008. In subsequent years Triplemanía shows would be offered on PPV in Mexico and, for some events, outside of Mexico via internet or US PPV options.\n\nThe 2008 Triplemanía show ran live against Mexican rival promotion Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre's (CMLL) Infierno en el Ring (\"Inferno in the ring\") major event. Both Triplemanía and Infierno en el Ring were held in Mexico City, Triplemanía at the approximately 20,000 seat Palacio de los Deportes arena while Infierno en el Ring was held at the 16,500 seat Arena México. The special entrance set, complete with large video walls and decorations, constructed specifically for Triplemanía XVI and the PPV production set up reportedly cost three million pesos ($290,000) and took 150 workers to prepare.\nTickets for the event ranged from 150 pesos ($14.50) to 950 pesos ($92.02) for ringside seats. \"El Economista\" reported that 406 police officers, spread out over 52 units, provided security for the event.\n\nThe Triplemanía XVI show featured a total of seven professional wrestling matches with where some wrestlers were involved scripted feuds. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n\nAAA Mega Champion Cibernético and challenger El Zorro had been rivals for almost a year prior to Triplemanía XVI, starting when both Cibernético and El Zorro targeted then AAA Mega Champion El Mesías. The championship feud build from the overarching AAA storyline featuring \"La Legión Extranjera\" (\"The Foreign Legion\") fighting against the Mexicans representing AAA. El Mesías, from Puerto Rico, was one of the major figures in \"La Legión Extranjera\", teaming with US representative Sean Waltman and Japanese wrestler Kenzo Suzuki in the main event of Triplemanía XV. The trio lost to \"Los Hell Brothers\" (Cibernético, Charly Manson and Chessman). In September 2007 \"Los Hell Brothers\" teamed up with El Zorro to wrestle against the Black Family (Dark Cuervo, Dark Escoria, Dark Espiritu and Dark Ozz) in the main event of the 2007 Verano de Escándalo show. Zorro escaped early on in the match leaving his team at a disadvantage. After \"Los Hell Brothers\" won the match a man came to the ring wearing the \"iron mask\" but that turned out to be Konnan. When Zorro appeared on the scene moments later he turned on the \"tecnicos\", attacking them with a kendo stick. After the show Zorro claimed that he was shown the light; he was actually a Spaniard, not Mexican, and was against the Mexican contingent in AAA. Joining Konnan's \"La Legión Extranjera\".\n\nAfter Zorro's turn the story was that Konnan considered El Zorro his \"main man\", the two even turned on El Mesías and \"La Secta del Mesías\" when El Mesías did not want to grant Zorro a title match. The storyline lead to a three-way world title match between Zorro, El Mesías and Cibernético at Guerra de Titanes (\"War of the Titans\"). During the match Cibernético received second and third burns to his back after \"La Legión\" put him through a table on fire (Cibernético was legitimately injured, it was not planned). A few weeks later, the storyline continued as El Zorro and the rest of \"La Legión Extranjera\" attacked and \"injured\" El Mesias during a show. The storyline was done partially to cover up the fact that El Mesias was returning Puerto Rico, as well as to help establish El Zorro as a top \"rudo\" in AAA. At the 2008 Rey de Reyes (\"King of Kings\") El Zorro won the Rey de Reyes tournament, while Cibernético finally defeated El Mesías to win the AAA Mega Championship. With his victory in the Rey de Reyes tournament El Zorro also earned a championship match at Triplemanía XVI. The original plan for the main event was to have AAA promoter Joaquín Roldán at ringside for the match, but the Mexico City boxing and wrestling commission would not allow it because he was not a licensed active competitor and the plan included Roldán getting physically involved.\n\nAnother featured match of Triplemanía XVI was a long-running \"family feud\" between sisters Mari Apache and Faby Apache that also included their father, Gran Apache, Faby's husbandBilly Boy their son Marvin \"Apache\". The storyline started out in 2005 with Billy Boy approaching the ring when Faby Apache was in a match. He usually carried flowers with him, and at times even carrying signs where he professed his love. The two had dated for years in real life prior to the storyline, and had in fact gotten married around the same time, writing their real life relationship into a storyline. The problems began when Faby Apache's father, Gran Apache, objected to the relationship and attacked Billy Boy because he was not \"worthy\" of his daughter, he was not tough enough for Gran Apache's liking. The Family feud stretched out for several years and even had the birth of Faby and Billy Boy's son Marvin incorporated into the storyline. The feud saw Gran Apache defeat Billy Boy in a match where he would be forced to not have anything to do with either Faby Apache or his son. Following the loss the storyline was that Billy Boy was so depressed that he caused his team \"Los Barrio Boys\" to lose several matches, this in turn, led to Alan and Decnnis turning on Billy Boy, taking Gran Apache's side in the storyline. On May 28, 2008 Faby Apache defeated Ayako Hamada and Mari Apache to win the 2008 \"Reina de Reinas\" (\"Queen of Queens\") tournament, moving the storyline onto focusing on Faby and her older sister Mari Apache, who chose to side with her father in the storyline. The two sisters agreed to put their hair on the line in a \"Lucha de Apuestas\", or \"bet match\", at Triplemanía XVI.\n\nOne of the featured storylines that was supposed to culminate at Triplemanía XVI focused on the internal struggles of a \"rudo\" group known as \"Los Vipers\", initially between \"Los Vipers\" leader Abismo Negro and Black Abyss, a wrestler using a very similar ring character. Initially, it was believed that the Black Abyss character was introduced due to rumors of Abismo Negro jumping to CMLL or to cover several no-shows. During that time Mr. Niebla had begun challenging Abismo Negro's position as the leader of \"Los Vipers\", backing Black Abyss in the feud. At the 2008 \"Rey de Reyes\" show Abismo Negro lost due to interference from Black Abyss. The tension led to Abismo Negro and Mr. Niebla physically fightighting each other over the leadership, wrestling in matches where the \"Los Vipers\" leadership was on the line. Abismo Negro won the matches, but each time AAA head booker Joaquín Roldan announced that the decision had been overturned for various reasons. After the second match the rest of \"Los Vipers\" turned on Abismo Negro and kicked him out of the group, making Mr. Niebla their leader instead. The storyline was supposed to end in a \"Luchas de Apuestas\" match between Niebla and Negro at Triplemanía XVI. Later on the match was changed to a multi-man steel cage match including all of Los Vipers (Mr. Niebla, Black Abyss, Psicosis II and Histeria) and Abismo Negro with the last person in the cage being forced to unmask A few days before the show the steel cage match as canceled with AAA claiming that Abismo Negro had suffered a neck injury.\n\nFor the opening match Laredo Kid was originally scheduled to be part of the match, but for unexplained reasons did not work the match, leaving his fellow \"Real Fuerza Aérea\" (\"Royal Air Force\") members Aero Star, El Ángel, and Super Fly one man short as they faced off against The Black Family (Dark Cuervo, Dark Escoria, Dark Espiritu and Dark Ozz).\n\nMr. Niebla was originally scheduled to compete in the second match of the night, but instead, he quit AAA, and made his CMLL return at Infierno en el Ring that same night. Later on Mr. Niebla later stated that he left AAA because the big mask vs. mask match he was promised fell through as Abismo Negro was unable to work the Triplemanía match. Histeria replaced Mr. Niebla in the six-man tag team match where \"Los Vipers\" lost to Alan Stone, Octagón, and Brazo de Plata when Octagón pinned Histeria.\n\nIn the fourth match of the night sisters Faby and Mari Apache squared off, fighting each other with their hair on the line. Billy Boy was on the corner of his wife Faby Apache, while Gran Apache was in Mari Apache's corner for the match. The match ended with Faby Apache pinning her older sister Mari Apache. A visibly emotional Gran Apache entered the ring before Mari Apache got her hair shaved off, pleading with the officials and the crowd to have HIS hair shaved off instead, pleading for his family to reunite. As Gran Apache had his hair shaved off the Apache sisters put their differences aside, hugging their father, with Billy Boy joining in moments later, calling a truce to the long-running feud.\n\nAccording to AAA, the fifth match of the night, a hardcore match, had a fifteen-minute time limit imposed on it by the Mexico City boxing and wrestling federation, despite such matches normally not having a time limit. The added stipulation allowed AAA to have Vampiro and El Mesías, within having a conclusive winner of the match, allowing them to extend the feud. The two were fighting on the outside of the ring when the time expired, resulting in a draw.\n\nFor the semi-final match a wheelchair bound Charly Manson entered the arena to introduce the \"luchador sorpresa\" (\"surprise wrestler\") that had been advertised and Chessman and La Parka's tag team partner. AAA played \"Bad Medicine\" over the PA system, normally the theme song of Dr. Wagner Jr. (who was wrestling for CMLL), as they introduced Dr. Wagner Jr.'s brother Silver King as the surprise wrestler, confirming rumors reported by newspapers earlier in the day. Silver King surprised everyone by wearing his wrestling mask, after not having worn it for over 20 years. In \"Lucha Libre\" it is normally not allowed for a wrestler to resume wearing a mask they have previously lost in a \"Lucha de Apuestas\", but for this occasion Silver King and AAA ignored the tradition. The match ended when Suzuki hit Silver King with a low blow behind the referee's back and pinned him, winning the match for his side.\n\nIn the main event Cibernético had the odds stacked against him, starting with El Tirantes being named the referee, El Tirantes played the role of a crooked referee who supported \"La Legión Extranjera\" whenever he had a chance. During the match against El Zorro, El Tirantes was knocked out by accident, leaving the match unsupervised for a short while. When El Zorro covered Cibernético, Konnan (El Zorro's corner man) took off his shirt to reveal a referee's shirt underneath. The ploy failed as Cibernético kicked out before the three count. Moments later El Hijo del Tirantes (\"Son of El Tirantes\") came to the ring to officiate the match fairly and without bias. Moments later Cibernético pinned El Zorro to retain the championship.\n\nIn the lead up to AAA's next major event \"Verano de Escándalo\" (\"Summer of Scandal\") Cibernético's \"Los Hell Brothers\" team mate Chessman won an elimination match to earn a shot at the AAA Mega Championship held by Cibernético. Cibernético congratulated his partner for the victory, but did not agree to a date for Chessman's title match. The tension came to a head in September after Cibernético came to the ring to congratulate Chessman on a recent win. Charly Manson came to the ring to try and mediate between the two, trying to keep the peace, but when Manson could not pick sides, \"Los Hell Brothers\" disbanded. With the split of \"Los Hell Brothers, Chessman\" became a \"Rudo\" and the title match was scheduled for \"Verano de Escandalo\". Cibernético retained the championship in a very close match. Chessman was later given another match for the AAA Mega Championship, a match that also included El Zorro, which took place at the 2008 Antonio Peña Memorial Show, a match Cibernético won by pinning El Zorro.\n\nThe predominant storyline after Triplemanía XVI featured the Konnan-led \"La Legión Extranjera\" group as they continued their efforts to take control of AAA. By winning the main event of the Antonio Peña Memorial Show the storyline was that \"La Legión Extranjera\" was now running AAA, completing their takeover. One of the storyline effects of the take over by Konnan and his group was that Cibernético announced that he was leaving AAA, vacating the AAA Mega Championship in the process. The storyline was pushed as supposedly being real, something that was further enhanced by Cibernético working on the independent circuit from December 2008, until returning to AAA in April 2009.\n\nAs a follow up to the time-limit draw between Vampiro and El Mesías, the two faced off in an extreme rules match on AAA's \"Sin Límite\" television taping on July 25. That match ended in a 25-minute time-limit draw. The inconclusive ended lead to AAA booking the rematch between the two as the main event of the 2008 \"Verano de Escándalo\" show, making the match a steel cage \"street fight\" match, ensuring that there would be a winner. At \"Verano de Escándalo\" El Mesías defeated Vampiro to end the storyline between the two.\n\nWhile the Apaches reunited at the show, the storyline didn't end there. Later in 2008 Billy Boy returned to AAA, wearing a mask to keeping his true identity secret as he wrestled under the name \"Alfa\". He used the ruse to try to gain Gran Apache's respect. The ploy worked to the point where Gran Apache stated that Alfa would make a good husband for Faby Apache. After hearing that Billy Boy unmasked himself and reunited with Faby Apache and Marvin. The ruse did not please Gran Apache, who still did not like Billy Boy. During the 2008 Guerra de Titanes show Billy Boy came to Faby Apache's aid after she lost a match. The frustration of the loss made Faby Apache slap Billy Boy, which in turn caused Billy Boy to attack her. During an in-ring celebration of Gran Apache's 50 years in professional wrestling Billy Boy attacked his father-in-law with a steel chair, reversing the roles of Billy Boy and Gran Apache at that point in the storyline. In the spring of 2010 Aero Star was brought into the family feud, portraying a new love interest for Faby Apache. To begin with, Billy Boy acted like he did not care, stating that he had moved on as well and found a new love in Sexi Star. During a show Aero Star came to the ring and asked Gran Apache's permission to ask Faby Apache out. When Gran Apache was about to say yes Billy Boy ran to the ring and attached Aero Star. This led to Faby, Sexi Star, Billy Boy and Aero Star being booked in an inter-gender \"Lucha de Apuesta\" steel cage match where the last person in the ring would either have their hair shaved off (Faby Apache or Billy Boy) or be forced to unmask (Aero Star or Sexi Star). The match came down to Faby Apache and Billy Boy in the cage with Faby Apache pinning Billy to win the match. Following the \"Apuesta\" loss the storyline has focused more on Faby Apache and Sexi Star than Billy Boy.\n\nWith Joe Lider turning on the Mexican Powers and Nicho el Millonario turning on \"La Familia\" the two, along with X-Fly, formed a new group known as \"La Hermandad 187\" (\"The 187 Brotherhood\"), fighting with both the Mexican Powers and \"La Familia de Tijuana\". Nicho and Lider won a Ladder match at \"Verano de Escándalo\" defeating the Mexican Powers (Crazy Boy and Último Gladiador), \"La Familia de Tijuana\" (Extreme Tiger and Halloween), and The Hart Foundation 2.0 (Jack Evans and Teddy Hart) to win the AAA World Tag Team Championship.\n\nTriplemanía XVI would later be released on DVD through \"Televisa\" Home Entertainment.\n"}
{"id": "2696303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2696303", "title": "Twins Days", "text": "Twins Days\n\nTwins Days is a festival for biological twins (and other multiples, e.g. triplets, quads) which has taken place every summer since 1976 in Twinsburg, Ohio, when the festival was founded by A group of Twinsburg citizens including Ray Diersing, who who helped create it for his daughters. It is the largest annual gathering of twins in the world, and draws thousands of participants from all over the United States and elsewhere in the world. \n\nThe event, which takes place on the first full weekend in August, routinely attracts about 2,000 pairs of twins. About 1,140 sets of multiples pre-registered for the 2014 festival, including people from Nigeria, Brazil, Australia, Ghana, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, France, Italy, England, Belgium, Germany, Japan, China and India. The 2014 festival was themed as a \"peace and love\" event, and billed as \"Twinstock: Groovy in Twinsburg\".\n\nThe festival has developed its own traditions over the years. As the writer Tony Barrell noted in a major press article in 2003, “An unwritten festival rule means that identical twins are identically dressed, too. This applies as much to 70-year-old men as to 17-year-old girls, and to tiny babies, wheeled around in fleets of twin buggies.” The festival is opened every year with a performance of The Star-Spangled Banner, sung by John and Jerry Starlet and signed in ASL by Jamie Maassen and Jodie Qualkinbush, and a parade along Ravenna Road (former SR-14).\n\nThe festival attracts many members of the scientific community, who use the presence of thousands of identical and fraternal twins to conduct voluntary twin studies, in order to determine the genetic or non-genetic basis of a wide range of human traits. Twins are customarily rewarded for their participation.\n\nBarrell also noted that there was a tendency among Twins Days attendees to form human patterns: “Pairs of complete strangers seem continually, magnetically drawn to one another, to shake hands, slap backs – and, sometimes, take the relationship further... Another extraordinary thing is happening: clumps of twins keep making human patterns. Every few seconds, two or three or more sets get together in symmetrical formations and smile for somebody’s camera. They seem powerless to resist the compulsion, and watching it is like seeing the colors coalesce in a giant kaleidoscope.”\n\nThe Twins Days event was inspired by a pair of enterprising 19th-century twins, Moses and Aaron Wilcox. “They were the identical twins who bought about 4,000 acres of land here in 1819, and then offered to donate six acres for a town square and $20 towards a new school, on one condition: that the place drop its dull old name, Millsville, and become Twinsburg. More than a century and a half later, in 1976, the town was celebrating the United States’ bicentennial and decided to throw a party the Wilcoxes would have appreciated. Just 36 pairs of twins showed up, but the burghers of Twinsburg saw its potential and made it annual.”\n\n\"Our America with Lisa Ling\", Twin Lives episode\n"}
{"id": "35992569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35992569", "title": "Urban Beach Week", "text": "Urban Beach Week\n\nUrban Beach Week is a hip-hop festival held in Miami's South Beach over the Memorial Day weekend since the 1990s. Urban Beach Week has been likened to a de facto continuation of Freaknik's cultural activities. The event has become known for its over-the-top parties and fashions.\n\nThe events of Urban Beach Week are typically spread over five days. The city does not sponsor the event and there is no one organizer. Instead, it is a weekend of rolling performances in private venues.\n\nEstimates of those attending Urban Beach Week range from 250,000 to 350,000 visitors.\n\nWhile Urban Beach Week is a hip-hop dominated music event, major reggae artists from the US and abroad have also appeared.\n\nMajor artists who have performed at Urban Beach Week related shows include Flo Rida, Twista, Mr. Vegas, Shaggy, Lil Bow Wow, Funkmaster Flex, Fat Joe, Marcia Griffiths, and Pitbull.\n\nUrban Beach Week has been a controversial event for the residents of South Beach. Violence and property crime associated with the event has turned many locals against the festival. It was reported in the New York Times that many South Beach residents leave the area during Urban Beach Week.\n\nMayor Matti Herrera Bower has said the city doesn't have much ability to end Urban Beach Week, considering that the tourists who come for the Memorial weekend don't come for city permitted events, but for private concerts and parties.\n\nAfter a fatal shooting of an armed suspect by police in 2011, city leaders considered cutting back drinking hours or imposing a curfew; both ideas were considered unworkable. Also rejected was a plan to make the festival a city-sanctioned and organized event.\n\nInstead, the city and the Police Department increased the turnout of law enforcement in 2012, with a tougher stance on minor infractions. Nearly 600 officers were on duty. Lanes were closed on the causeways leading to Miami Beach, and license plate readers were used to check for outstanding warrants, stolen cars and suspended licenses. Watch towers were put up to better observe the main promenade on Ocean Drive.\n\nCivil-rights groups expressed their concern in a letter signed by executive director of the ACLU of Florida, Howard Simon, former president of the Greater Miami ACLU chapter, John de Leon, and Bradford E. Brown, president of the Miami-Dade NAACP, which said that Miami Beach officials were attempting \"to make this event as difficult as possible for visitors to attend, creating the appearance that it is trying to discourage African Americans from visiting the City.\" \n\nA total of 431 arrests were made during the 2012 event. In 2012, police said that they removed 25 guns from the streets.\n\n"}
