{"id": "2164459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164459", "title": "1987 Aegean crisis", "text": "1987 Aegean crisis\n\n1987 Aegean crisis took place in late March between Turkey and Greece, as part of the Aegean dispute. Turkey learned that Greece was starting to drill for oil in the disputed Aegean waters in the vicinity of Thasos. \nIn response, the Turkish survey ship RV MTA Sismik 1 was sent to the area to conduct survey with an escort of Turkish warships. \n\nOil was discovered off Thasos, in 1973. Greece claimed ownership of mineral rights in the continental shelf extending from beneath all its islands in the Aegean. Turkey proposed that the continental shelf be divided through negotiations. \n\nThe crisis escalated, armed forces of both countries were on alert, and both sides said they would use force if obstructed by the other. The incident nearly started a war between Greece and Turkey. \nGreek prime minister Andreas Papandreou gave the orders to sink the ship if it was found in the disputed waters claimed by Greece. Turkish Prime Minister Turgut Özal said that \"If Greece interferes with our vessel in any way, and this is what Papandreou is saying, we will act in the same way against him\", \"As a result, it could be cause for war.\", but he also added that \"We are waiting for the first move from them.\"\nPeter Carington, the Secretary General of NATO, urged Greece and Turkey to avoid the use of force and offered to act as a mediator. \n\nThe crisis was solved when Turkish Prime Minister Turgut Özal announced that if the Greek government did not enter the disputed waters, the Turks would stay out as well; he participated in a phone call with Papandreou.\n"}
{"id": "55732857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55732857", "title": "2018 in animation", "text": "2018 in animation\n\nEvents in 2018 in animation.\n"}
{"id": "56667101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56667101", "title": "2019 World Junior and U23 Canoe Slalom Championships", "text": "2019 World Junior and U23 Canoe Slalom Championships\n\nThe 2019 ICF World Junior and U23 Canoe Slalom Championships will take place in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil from 1 to 5 May 2019 under the auspices of the International Canoe Federation (ICF) at the Deodoro Olympic Whitewater Stadium. It will be the 21st edition of the competition for Juniors (U18) and the 8th edition for the Under 23 category.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51318560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51318560", "title": "Algeria at the 1993 Mediterranean Games", "text": "Algeria at the 1993 Mediterranean Games\n\nAlgeria (ALG) competed at the 1993 Mediterranean Games in Languedoc-Roussillon, France.\n\n"}
{"id": "41157004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41157004", "title": "Australia–Indonesia spying scandal", "text": "Australia–Indonesia spying scandal\n\nThe Australia–Indonesia spying scandal concerns allegations made in 2013 by The Guardian and Australian Broadcasting Corporation, based on documents leaked to The Guardian and the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, that the Australian Signals Directorate attempted to monitor the mobile phone calls of Indonesian president Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, his wife Kristiani Herawati, and senior officials.\n\nBeginning in June 2013, reports from media outlets including The Guardian and The Washington Post revealed operational details of the US National Security Agency's mass surveillance of US and foreign nationals. The reports were based on a series of secret documents leaked by former NSA contractor Edward Snowden. Further disclosures indicated that the NSA's surveillance operations extended to include the intelligence-gathering agencies of US allies, including the British Government Communications Headquarters and Australia's Defence Signals Directorate, members of the UKUSA or \"Five Eyes\" security agreement.\n\nIn October, 2013, Der Spiegel reported that German intelligence services had received \"credible evidence\" that Chancellor Angela Merkel's mobile phone had been targeted by the NSA. Later that month, reports from Der Spiegel and Fairfax Media stated that Australian embassies and diplomatic posts in Asia were being used to intercept phone calls and data, including during the 2007 United Nations Climate Change Conference.\n\nIn 2004 during the East Timor crisis, Indonesia bugged Australia's embassy in Jakarta and tried to recruit Australians as spies, retiring Indonesian intelligence chief General Abdullah Mahmud Hendropriyono admitted. \n\nThe allegations prompted Indonesia to immediately recall its ambassador to Australia, Nadjib Riphat Kesoema. Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott initially declined to apologise or comment on the matter, prompting accusations from President Yudhoyono that he had \"belittled\" Indonesia's response to the issue. Speaking to Parliament, Abbott went on to argue that Australia \"should not be expected to apologise for...reasonable intelligence-gathering activities\". The next day, Indonesia responded by reviewing all areas of bilateral cooperation, including on issues around people smuggling, a major component of the Abbott Government's Operation Sovereign Borders policy.\n\nThe Australian government's response to the issue prompted criticism from current and former leaders in both countries, including former Prime Minister Malcolm Fraser, former Vice President Jusuf Kalla, Indonesian Foreign Minister Marty Natalegawa, in addition to negative reporting in the Indonesian media. Demonstrations were also held outside Australia's embassy in Jakarta.\n\nIn contrast, Opposition Leader Bill Shorten declined to criticise Abbott, instead emphasising the importance of the bilateral relationship, and arguing that the government's response should be a \"Team Australia moment\". Former Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer argued that the diplomatic response to the issue was \"beyond the control\" of Tony Abbott's government.\n\nThe allegations, and Indonesia's response, attracted significant coverage in Indonesian and international media, particularly following allegations that the US National Security Agency had attempted to monitor the mobile phone of German Chancellor Angela Merkel.\n\n"}
{"id": "14149884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14149884", "title": "Bernard and Doris", "text": "Bernard and Doris\n\nBernard and Doris is a 2006 film directed by Bob Balaban. The teleplay by Hugh Costello is a semi-fictionalized account of the relationship that developed between socialite heiress and philanthropist Doris Duke and her self-destructive Irish butler, Bernard Lafferty later in her life.\n\nThe film premiered at the Hamptons International Film Festival on October 17, 2007 and was broadcast by HBO on February 9, 2008. It has been released on DVD.\n\nIn 1987, Doris Duke, considered the wealthiest woman in the world, hires Bernard Lafferty, who lists Elizabeth Taylor and Peggy Lee as former employers on his résumé, as her majordomo. He explains a six-month gap in his employment history was due to \"health issues,\" a euphemism for time spent in rehab to deal with his addiction to alcohol. He assures Doris, who immediately suspects the truth, he is capable of performing his duties without any problems. As Bernard moves in, the viewer can quickly tell he is a little neurotic, first putting portraits of his former employers, Taylor and Lee, in his bedroom, then informing the rest of the staff he is now \"Miss Duke's eyes and ears\" and demanding they listen to him. Despite Bernard's growing affection for Doris, the brash and often crude Doris thinks little of him, not even remembering how to correctly pronounce his name. However, their situation slowly evolves into a more emotionally intimate but non-physical relationship as Doris returns from a plastic surgery center one evening, drunk and on painkillers, and is aided by Bernard who stays with her through the night.\n\nDoris teaches Bernard about horticulture, especially the care of orchids, and he takes control of the operation of her various households during her frequent long absences. Bernard himself enjoys tending the home and making sure things are in their correct order. The first time his sexuality is questioned is when he peers at Doris's much younger lover playing the piano in his underwear. In the greenhouse, Doris flirts with him, telling him belly dancing is a form of seduction and then performing a dance for him. Bernard tentatively informs her that he \"swings in the other direction.\" Doris encourages him to tone down his severe dress and wear brighter colors. Doris begins to take Bernard with her on her world tours and convinces him to pierce his ear. During this time, they grow closer, and Doris begins to favor him above everyone else. Also, whenever Doris is mentioned in newspapers, we see Bernard cutting them out of the newspapers and keeping them for himself.\n\nDoris begins to spend more time with Bernard, and at one point attempts to seduce him. When Bernard backs away, Doris questions him: \"I don't get it. You don't fuck me, you don't steal from me. So what do you want from me?\", to which Bernard answers, \"I want to take care of you, Miss Duke.\"\n\nAs the two become closer, and Bernard becomes more relaxed, he begins to drink again, initially with discretion but eventually to an extent that it begins to hinder his performance. Rather than dismiss him, as she always has done with employees who displeased her in the past, Doris has him committed for more rehab at her expense despite his having consumed large amounts of her expensive, vintage wines. Doris suffers a stroke, and Bernard returns to take full control of her life. In order to humor her—and to indulge his own proclivities—Bernard wears her makeup, jewelry, and haute couture and begins to affect a more feminine demeanor. One evening, Doris tells Bernard what she wants him to do after she dies, and a tearful Bernard promises he will perform her requests. Doris's smile fades and she tells him, \"I must really be crazy to believe a fucker like you,\" suggesting that she still resents him for stealing from her.\n\nMeanwhile, Bernard tries to keep Doris' attorney and financial advisor Waldo Taft, away from Doris, hanging up on him whenever he calls. Taft dislikes and distrusts Lafferty enough to have offered him $500,000 to leave his position in the past. Taft calls the police to Doris's estate, but Doris tells the police officer that Bernard is only \"peacefully devoted above and beyond in the call of duty,\" prompting the officer to leave and blame Taft for being jealous. However, Taft encourages Doris to hire a live-in nurse. Although Doris's faith and trust in Bernard cannot be shaken, she agrees to hire a nurse, which Bernard is very unhappy about. Eventually, he convinces her to refrain from hiring a nurse, instead taking care of her himself and only occasionally inviting a doctor to give her checkups.\n\nA while later, Bernard gives a very sick Doris her medicine and injection before putting her to bed, and she dies that night. Before her death, however, she appoints him executor of her massive estate. In his first meeting with her board of directors following Doris's cremation, a now obviously effete Bernard appears confident and in control, dressed in a style and acting in a manner that is peculiarly similar to Doris's at the beginning of the film. As he waters the orchids in her garden, viewers are told that there were accusations against him that he murdered Doris but that no evidence was found. Viewers are then told that he died from complications related to his alcoholism three years later.\n\nOld Westbury Gardens served as the setting for Duke's Hillsborough Township, New Jersey estate known as Duke Farms.\n\nDominick Dunne and Calvin Trillin are seen briefly in cameo appearances as board members.\n\nDuring the production of \"Bernard and Doris\", Pony Duke and Jason Thomas, the authors of \"Too Rich: The Family Secrets of Doris Duke\" (1996), threatened Balaban with a suit for copyright infringement. Thomas contended that Balaban had gone so far as to \"invite Pony to the movie's set, so he could say he got the material from Pony in an interview. I told Pony not to go.\" Balaban, however, denied ever admitting anyone to the set. The basis for Duke's and Thomas' contention was an erroneous entry for \"Bernard and Doris\" in the IMDb, which stated that Balaban's film was a \"version\" of \"Too Rich\". According to the \"NY Daily News\", \"Balaban says his movie is quite different from the TV flick (whose makers optioned the book title) and that he had nothing to do with IMDB.com's posting.\" \"Bernard and Doris\", Balaban explained, was entirely based on public records. Balaban dismissed the threatened suit, saying: \"They can do whatever they like, but I'm not going to lose too much sleep over this.\" (The IMDb listing has since been corrected.)\n\nAn earlier miniseries, \"\", had been aired by CBS in February 1999 to less critical acclaim than the later Balaban film. Based largely on the book \"The Richest Girl in the World\" by Stephanie Thomas and a series of \"Vanity Fair\" articles by Bob Colacello, it also listed the Duke-Thomas book in the credits.\n\n\nGinia Bellafante of \"The New York Times\" likened the film to \"the most delectable kind of \"Vanity Fair\" article, one that doesn’t leave you feeling guilty or venal or vaguely nuts for reveling in the particulars of great wealth even as you are made fully aware of all the isolating negatives.\" \n\nPeter Travers of \"Rolling Stone\" called the film a \"stunner of a movie [that's] the hip antidote to multiplex junk such as \"Mad Money\" and \"Meet the Spartans\". He added, \"All praise to director Bob Balaban, who doesn't miss a beat or a nuance in bringing us in, close as a whisper, to what might have been.\" \n\nBrian Lowry of \"Variety\" called the film \"a not-very-compelling two-character piece with showy moments for Susan Sarandon and Ralph Fiennes but not much else to recommend it . . . What the movie does provide is a rare indulgence in long, quiet scenes between the leads, which serve both as a showcase for the actors and a reminder as to how undercooked the script is. For Sarandon, Doris is a slightly less shrewish version of the evil queen she just played in \"Enchanted\", while Fiennes is a model of restraint . . . One can see why HBO would gamble on such a modest pickup based on the names attached. Still, much of what passed privately between employer and servant remains shrouded in mystery, and \"Bernard and Doris\" is ultimately unsatisfying in filling those gaps - real, imagined or otherwise.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2589953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2589953", "title": "Blitz!", "text": "Blitz!\n\nBlitz! is a musical by Lionel Bart. The musical, described by Steven Suskin as \"massive\", was set in the East End of London during the Blitz (the aerial bombings during World War II). The story drew on Bart's childhood memories of London's Jewish East End during the Blitz and, like most musicals, centred on a romance between a young couple, in this case a Jewish woman and a Cockney man, although the largest role and main point-of-view character is that of Mrs. Blitztein, the young woman's mother. Steven Suskin describes it as \"\"Abie's Irish Rose\" set against the burning of Atlanta.\" Bart himself described the play as \"…three human stories inside an epic canvas; the major human conflict—the major plot—personifies the spirit of London and how that spirit developed during the period of the piece.\"\n\n\"Blitz!\" opened in London 8 May 1962 at the Adelphi Theatre, while Bart's enormous West End success \"Oliver!\" was still running at the New Theatre; at that time \"Oliver!\" had not yet been produced on Broadway. \"Blitz\" ran for 568 performances. It never ran on Broadway: between its scale and the fact that New Yorkers could hardly be expected to share Londoners' nostalgia for the period, it proved \"unexportable\". Bart wrote the music and lyrics, and had directed the original London production himself; Joan Maitland contributed to the libretto. Sean Kenny designed the elaborate sets, which included representations of Victoria Station, Petticoat Lane, and the Bank underground station, not to mention London on fire during an air raid. Four revolving house units and an enormous, mobile overhead bridge carried on two shifting towers made it, at the time, the most expensive West End musical ever produced. Noël Coward called it \"twice as loud and twice as long as the real thing.\"\n\nThe song \"The Day After Tomorrow\" was specially written by Bart for Vera Lynn. Lynn had been a star at the time of the German bombing attacks; in the play, the characters listen to Lynn sing it on the radio while they shelter underground. Lynn did not actually appear onstage during the production, but she recorded the song for it, and the production used her recording on the \"radio\". The play also makes use of a recording of a Winston Churchill radio speech.\n\nThe role of Mrs. Blitztein was played by Amelia Bayntun in the original cast; it was her only role in a stage musical. The cast included a large number of children. There is a scene in which the children are to be evacuated from London; they cheerfully sing \"We’re Going To The Country\", while their mothers try to put on a cheerful face. The children's chorus \"Mums and Dads\" was a \"showstopper\" that drew much radio play.\n\nThe musical was never seen for many years, largely because the original scores went missing during Bart's turbulent years. It was reassembled in Australia by 19-year-old Andrew Jarrett, a Bart devotee, with orchestrations by Kevin Hocking, Jack Westmore and Stephen Smith. So impressed was Bart, that he came out of obscurity and travelled to Australia for Jarrett's triumphant production in 1985. The Royal Shakespeare Company's intended 1990 revival (for the fiftieth anniversary of the Blitz) never happened, although the National Youth Theatre did revive it in London's West End at the Playhouse Theatre in September 1990 with Jarrett imported as Music Director. This production was directed by Edward Wilson and choreographed by David Toguri, with the role of Mrs. Blitzstein played by Jessica Stephenson (now Hynes), (now an established UK screen actor). According to the review in \"The Guardian\" \"Edward Wilson's production for the NYT is necessarily more modest and contains some beautiful, slate-grey designs from Brian Lee: his backdrop of a soaring-arched Victorian railway terminus is stunning. David Toguri's musical staging shows his customary flair, camouflaging the cast's vocal weaknesses by bringing out their physical athleticism. And Jessica Stevenson as the mob-capped Mrs Blitzstein admirably conveys truculent working-class defiance.\" Benedict Nightingale wrote in his review: \"But the strongest performance comes from Jessica Stevenson as a Jewish matriarch able to sing a silly song about baking cakes being the answer to all ills, yet remain quietly dignified throughout. Here is an apprentice actress to encourage.\" This production became the basis for a touring Northern Stage Company revival starring Diane Langton as Mrs. Blitztein.\n\nA revival production of \"Blitz\" was put on at the Queens Theatre in Hornchurch in 2000 including members of the Queens Theatre's own youth groups playing many characters alongside the resident cast.\n\nThe story focuses on two families, the Jewish Blitzteins and the Cockney Lockes. Mrs. Blitztein and Alfie Locke have adjacent stalls on Petticoat Lane: she sells herring, he sells fruit; they do not like each other. Their children, Georgie Locke and Carol Blitztein, are in love with one another.\n\nThe action opens on Bank underground station where the residents of Petticoat Lane are sheltering from yet another air raid (Our Hotel). Amongst them are the two prominent families of the street, the Blitzteins, led by their patriarchal mother and the Lockes, led by father Alfred. The two welcome home their respective sons Georgie Locke and Harry Blitztein who are home on embarkation leave for a week before shipping out to fight with the Army. Harry has a new (older) girlfriend in tow, Joyce, who is not only not Jewish but married, much to his mother's horror. Georgie, meanwhile, has caught sight of Mrs Blitztein's daughter Carol, who has grown into a beautiful young woman during his absence and is instantly smitten.\n\nCarol likewise is rather struck by the young soldier and they quickly hit it off, before their parents interfere, resulting in their usual round of bickering which never involves them directly speaking to each other but rather through other people (Tell Him, Tell Her). As the argument settles down, Georgie pulls Harry to one side to inform him that he is in love with Carol. Whilst Harry is not against such a union, he advises against it as he knows there could be trouble (I Wanna Whisper Something). The wireless is put on so the residents can listen to the news, which includes a speech by Winston Churchill, and a song by Vera Lynn (The Day After Tomorrow). Ernie Nearmiss, Alf's best friend and fellow air raid warden, arrives to inform those in the shelter that the Blackwell's house has been destroyed by a bomb and Mr and Mrs Blackwell were still inside at the time, having refused to go down to the shelter.\n\nTheir son Tommy, who is in the shelter with the Blitzteins, is thankfully asleep and doesn't hear, but Mrs Blitztein decides that she will send Tommy with her own son Siddy into the country for safety. Mrs Blitztein then sings Siddy to sleep (Our Hotel Lullaby). The next day, the children of the street, apart from Georgie's sister Franie, are assembled to be evacuated and are waved goodbye by their mums (We're Going to The Country). No sooner have the children gone than the bombings get worse; the firemen and ARP are kept very busy and every morning the residents of Petticoat Lane emerge from the shelter not knowing what to expect, but are determined not to let it get them down (Another Morning). On this particular day, they emerge to find the gas mains have been hit and they are not allowed into their homes. Princlet Street has also been completely destroyed leaving several families homeless, including the Murphys and Sens. Alf takes the Murphys in whilst Mrs Blitztein accommodates the Sens. Mrs Blitztein is very frustrated and begins to have a long rant about Hitler and is soon joined by the others (Who's This Geezer Hitler?) Harry re-appears after a week's disappearance and he is immediately put to work by his mother as punishment for not telling her where he was.\n\nCarol and Georgie manage to get a minute to themselves and it is revealed that they have been spending a lot of time together over the last week. Georgie, prior to leaving for duty the next day, asks Carol if she'll wait for him, but before she can answer their parents appear once again. Mrs Blitztein is in full flow about her children and how they have disappointed her - Carol by breaking off her relationship with a Jewish boy because of Georgie and now Harry for having relations with a married woman (Be What You Wanna Be). An official appears on the scene to conduct a census of all the people in the area who have foreign sounding names to find out how many there are and how long they've been in the area. Whilst this is going on, Alf and Ernie engage in a patriotic rant (As Long As This Is England). That night, Carol and Georgie sneak out together to spend one last night together before Georgie goes abroad.\n\nTheir parents look for them but in vain. Carol and Georgie have a laugh at both their parents and their stubborn ways, and reflect on how the fact they are from such different backgrounds actually make them more suited (Opposites). They are interrupted by the air raid siren, but rather than go down to the shelter, they take cover in a doorway (Magic Doorway). Mrs Blitztein, searching for Harry, discovers them and is not less than impressed. Georgie volunteers to pay Joyce a visit and see if Harry is there. Carol meanwhile goes to find Harry herself, leaving Mrs Blitztein alone with her cake tin (Bake a Cake). She then overhears Buddyboy and Bird in the process of stealing lead pipes and is shocked to discover Harry amongst them. Harry announces to his mother he is not going back to the army as he's had enough. Mrs Blitztein is about to go after him when a bomb goes off nearby, followed by a scream from Carol.\n\nThe next day at Victoria Station, Georgie is waiting for Carol to see him off and for Harry to report for duty. When Harry doesn't show, Elsie, his former girlfriend who is still rather taken with him, tries to buy him time by distracting the Sergeant Major (Leave It To The Ladies). Mrs Blitztein arrives after having been at the hospital with Carol all night and is upset that Harry has not turned up. She informs Georgie that Carol was unable to come and see him off. Georgie informs Mrs Blitztein of his love for Carol and his intention to marry her when he returns, and is surprised when she agrees and seems more gentle towards him than before. The soldiers depart and Mrs Blitztein is left alone.\n\nAct Two opens six months later with Carol (now blind after the bomb blast) alone on Petticoat Lane, thinking of Georgie, who she has not seen at all in that time (Far Away). The Sunday market is slowly beginning to set up and people are discussing Carol and how the bombing seems to have calmed down at last. Alf is pleased as he's had a letter from Georgie to say he's coming home for good after losing a kidney, and even better he doesn't want Carol or her mother to know he's coming, which Alf believes means he's going to finish with Carol.\n\nThe market is soon in full swing (Petticoat Lane) and the children return from the country (We've Been To See The Country). With the children having returned, the market starts its usual business, with Elsie commenting on the variety of people one meets at the Petticoat Lane market (Down The Lane). Carol, who is helping out on her Mum's pickled herring stall, asks Mrs Blitztein if what Franie has told her about Georgie coming home is true. Mrs Blitztein is forced to admit it is. Carol is confused as to why Georgie did not tell her he was coming home and worries that he has gone off her because she is blind. Mrs Blitztein tries to reassure her daughter but is secretly thinking the same thing. The Military Police arrive to enquire about Harry's whereabouts as he is still on the run from the army, followed by Joyce who has not seen Harry herself in a long time. Mrs Blitztein is in despair - her daughter is blind and unhappy and her son is a crook on the run. In a moment of desperation, she offers up a prayer to her late husband Jack, pleading for guidance (So Tell Me Jack).\n\nThat evening, the adults are assembling in the pub, leaving the children outside to amuse themselves with a game of Mums and Dads (Mums and Dads). After the other children are scared off by Tommy Blackwell and his horror book, Georgie emerges from the pub very drunk and depressed. Feeling a failure as a soldier, a son and a boyfriend he is drowning his sorrows. He is approached by Harry, who reveals that he has spent the last 6 months working on the black market and hiding from the military but has come back to see Carol having only just heard about what happened in the explosion. Georgie confesses that he too is yet to see Carol and it's clear whilst on one side he wants to see her he's too scared to do so. He makes out that Harry had the right idea running away, missing out on the fighting and death. Harry, on the other hand, seems to be fed up with life on the run and is clearly beginning to wish he had just faced his duty. The two agree to meet up later in the evening due to the area being too public where they are.\n\nGeorgie, now alone, goes into a drunken rant (Who Wants To Settle Down). Mrs Blitztein is next to discover him and she welcomes him home while trying to sound him out about Carol. Georgie admits the army was too much for him as all the killing and violence has altered his view on life and Carol probably wouldn't like the new him. Mrs Blitztein rubbishes the whole thing, telling Georgie that everyone has had to put up with the same thing at home and it hasn't changed any of them. She tells Georgie that she's very proud of him for going to fight for them and facing up to his responsibilities, unlike Harry, of whom she is very ashamed. She admits she misjudged Georgie because of her dislike of his father but tells him that she would be proud to have Georgie in her family. Georgie admits he still loves Carol as much as he ever did, if not more, but he doesn't think he's good enough for her. Mrs Blitztein informs him that in Carol's eyes no one else apart from Georgie would be good enough. She goes to fetch Carol, whilst Georgie is reunited with his father and Franie.\n\nCarol is brought to Georgie and the two enjoy an emotional reunion, during which Georgie proposes (Is This Gonna Be A Wedding!). Whilst preparations are made, Harry encounters Mrs Smith, who informs him of the impending marriage. Harry then breaks off his agreement with Buddyboy and Bird. At the wedding (Is This Gonna Be a Wedding! (Reprise)), Alf is still not happy about his son marrying a Blitztein but resigns himself to it, although not without a few snide remarks, particularly towards Mrs Blitztein. Georgie and Carol share their first dance (Far Away (Waltz Reprise)). Harry then appears to congratulate Georgie and Carol and announce he is going to fulfil his rightful duty by returning to the army (Duty Calls). The wedding party depart and Mrs Blitztein is left alone when a bomb hits. She is rescued from the rubble by Alf but neither are very gracious either in thanking or receiving that thanks and they leave still arguing, but in a huge step forward they are conversing directly rather than through other people, and the crowd once again come together in union (Who's This Geezer Hitler? - Reprise). \n\n\n\n\nParenthetical names are individuals who sung the roles in the original cast, rather than character names. \n\nAct One\n\n\nAct Two\n\n\n\"Far Away\" was later a #24 UK hit for Shirley Bassey.\n\n"}
{"id": "8971398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8971398", "title": "CTM Festival", "text": "CTM Festival\n\nThe annual CTM Festival is a music and visual arts event held in Berlin, Germany. Founded in 1999, the festival originally focused on electronic music, but has since evolved to cover a wide range of genres under the banner \"Festival for Adventurous Music and Art\".\n\nChanging through various shapes and formats over the years, the festival currently takes place as a 10-day long event in which the music program is supplemented by an extensive daytime program of workshops, art installations, panel discussions, screenings and presentations that illustrate the latest artistic, technological and economic developments in music and media cultures.\n\nDistinguishing the festival from many others in its field is the fact that CTM spotlights music’s social role in electronic and digital culture. Through the festival, as well as various events curated by CTM throughout the year, the organization reflects the latest musical currents against a backdrop of new technologies, modern art, historical perspective, and social issues.\n\nGENDERTRONICS – DER KÖRPER IN DER ELEKTRONISCHEN MUSIK\n\nEdited by CTM and Meike Jansen\n\nWhen, in the early 50s, electronic music appeared on the scene with the promise of abandoning all physical limits of music-making this was – like much besides – a Promethian male fantasy. Indeed, this music subsequently led to everything but disembodiment. From the psychedelic trances of the 60s and Kraftwerk robotics of the 70s, through to Techno ecstasies, gender-political interventions in the 90s and laptop performance – the questions as to how, from whom, to what ends and in which contexts electronics and the human body might be cable-linked have continually had to be addressed anew.\n\n“Gendertronics” is an in-depth study of questions raised by last year’s festival theme, \"Performing Sound\", edited by CTM and Meike Jansen and published by Edition Suhrkamp Verlag. With contributions from Olaf Arndt, Claudia Basrawi, Jochen Bonz & Thomas Meinecke, Mariola Brillowska, Kurt Dahlke, Diedrich Diederichsen, Harald Fricke, Tom Holert, Miss Kittin, Pinky Rose, Birgit Richard, Terre Thaemlitz, Marc Weiser and 17 black and white drawings by Jan Rohlf. – In German language only.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34148503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34148503", "title": "Charles A. Hurley", "text": "Charles A. Hurley\n\nCharles A. Hurley, commonly known as Chuck Hurley, is an American road safety campaigner. He was the Mothers Against Drunk Driving CEO from 2005-10.\n\nHurley has a BA in Political Science from Dickinson College (1967). He was a US naval intelligence officer in Taipei, Taiwan, working as a Sino-Soviet analyst (1968-70), then was the special assistant to the mayor of Wilmington, Delaware (1970-71). He worked for the Republican politician William A. Steiger as his legislative assistant then director from 1971-77.\n\nHe was with the National Safety Council for around 20 years from 1977, and was senior vice-president of communications for the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety from 1989 to 1996. He helped introduce the Click It or Ticket campaign in North Carolina when he was executive director of the Air Bag and Seat Belt Safety Campaign.\n\nHe volunteered with MADD since 1980. When he became CEO of MADD in March 2005 (a position, which according to their 990 form did not exist in 2003), his aim was to reduce turnover in the organisation. One of his proposals was for all people convicted of a DUI to be made to use an ignition interlock device. Hurley was considered for nomination in April 2009 by President Obama to run the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), but Hurley withdrew his name. He retired in June 2010 and was replaced as CEO by Kimberly Earle. In his last year with MADD he was paid $248,082 and was further compensated $18,213 for \"other compensation from the organization and related organizations.\" From 2005-2009 Hurley was compensated $1,182,803 not including other benefits such as expense accounts or pension contributions.\n\n"}
{"id": "24223212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24223212", "title": "Chhapar Mela", "text": "Chhapar Mela\n\nChhapar Mela is celebrated in the village of Chhapar in the district of Ludhiana, Punjab, India every year in September. This mela (fair), held in the memory of Gugga Pir, is one of the most popular and spectacular festivals of the Malwa belt of Punjab.\n\nPeople mainly worship the snake embodiment of Gugga at this fair. The fair falls on the fourth day of the month of Bhadas every year. It is believed that, the Chhapar Fair was started around 150 years ago by a small congregation of devotees. In recent years the number of people attending the fair has risen to millions.\n\nThe Minor Chhapar Mela is also held at the same place. The special trend of scooping the land (seven times) is also practised in this fair. People consider digging of land will bring Gugga Pir to protect them against snakes. The fair has much music, fun and dance. The fair has emerged as a grand festival in the past few decades.\n\nThe legend narrates the story of a boy and a snake born together in an agricultural family of Chhapar village. The serpent and the boy were so intimate that if one suffered a pain the other used to cry. One day the mother of the child went to the fields after laying him on a cot. To save him from the scorching sun, the snake stretched its hood over him. Thinking that the snake was going to bite the child, a passerby killed it with a stick. The child died immediately after the death of the snake and the family was left in sorrow. The family was advised by the elders to perform religious ceremonies to worship Gugga and Sidh and a he-goat was left free to mark the place of worship by striking at a particular place. The place was recognised as Mari Gugga where people from all walks of life have been worshipping Gugga on the fourth day of the month of Bhadas every year. The farmers of the Malwa belt recognise the fair to the extent that they change the agricultural chores according to the dates of the mela.\n\nPeople also narrate another story regarding the second fair known as Minor Chhapar Mela. At the beginning of the 20th century, the maharaja was said to have banned the mela because of a complaint by some farmers. But soon after the ruler banned the event, his horses started dying mysteriously and the misfortune stopped only after the ruler announced plans to organise the Minor Mela following the major one.\n\nAccording to another story, a faqir once anchored a twig after cleaning his teeth. A local person uprooted the twig in fun. The faqir then cursed the people of the local area so that the place would witness a heavy camp here, which would be followed by a deserted look.\n\n"}
{"id": "31521980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31521980", "title": "Chlormerodrin", "text": "Chlormerodrin\n\nChlormerodrin is a mercurial diuretic that was once used to treat patients with heart failure, but is no longer used in the United States.\n"}
{"id": "24518799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24518799", "title": "Christie in Love", "text": "Christie in Love\n\nChristie in Love is an early play by Howard Brenton concerning the life of serial killer John Christie, who murdered at least six women between 1943 and 1953, after which he was caught, tried and hanged.\n\nThe play, Brenton's first for Portable Theatre, was directed by David Hare, designed by Tony Bicat and the stage management was by Snoo Wilson. Hare continued on as director when the play was presented at the Royal Court on 12 March 1970. John Russell Taylor reviewed the play favourably in \"The Second Wave\", while Ronald Bryden in The Observer noted that “Brenton catches the peculiar cosy horror which surrounded our most sensational murder trial of the fifties”. The play won Brenton the John Whiting Award for 1970.\n\nThere have been revivals of the play in 1972 (Liverpool Playhouse, starring Colin Baker); in 2003 starring Paul Dundee, Strath Martin and Paul Pirie [Dundee Rep]); and in 2008 (Edinburgh Fringe).\n\nThe play was revived in 2009 in a co-production between Thrill Seeker and Cheekish. It was performed at the Lion and Unicorn from 27 October to 22 November.\n\nThe author's production note to the play states that “It is written to be played very slowly” and should last nearly an hour. Portable Theatre was a touring company with limited resources and \"Christie in Love\" was written for these conditions. Brenton described plays like this as being for the poor theatre and written “to turn “bad theatrical conditions” to advantage”.\n\n"}
{"id": "29696602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29696602", "title": "Con-G", "text": "Con-G\n\nCon-G was a non-profit fan-run multigenre convention, held in February in Guelph, Ontario, Canada from 2009 to 2014. The convention was originally created as a Japanese anime convention but subsequently covered many other aspects of geek culture, such as Steampunk, Sci-Fi, Fantasy, Gaming etc. The name Con-G came from a combination of the words \"Convention Guelph\" and was a play on words on the Japanese writing system kanji.\n\nKon, the Con-G mascot, was a cartoon Japanese dragon. He was green with a white belly and a purple mane, and was often depicted holding a calligraphy brush. He was created for Con-G by artist Lindsay Pattillo.\n\n"}
{"id": "11030320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11030320", "title": "Conspiracy of silence (expression)", "text": "Conspiracy of silence (expression)\n\nA conspiracy of silence, or culture of silence, describes the behavior of a group of people of some size, as large as an entire national group or profession or as small as a group of colleagues, that by unspoken consensus does not mention, discuss, or acknowledge a given subject. The practice may be motivated by positive interest in group solidarity or by such negative impulses as fear of political repercussion or social ostracism. It differs from avoiding a taboo subject in that the term is applied to more limited social and political contexts rather than to an entire culture. As a descriptor, \"conspiracy of silence\" implies dishonesty, sometimes cowardice, sometimes privileging loyalty to one social group over another. As a social practice, it is rather more extensive than the use of euphemisms to avoid addressing a topic directly.\n\nSome instances of such a practice are sufficiently well-known or enduring to become known by their own specific terms, including Code of silence for the refusal of law enforcement officers to speak out against crimes committed by fellow officers and omertà, cultural code of organized crime in Sicily.\n\nExamples of the use of the term vary widely and include:\n\n"}
{"id": "3369375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3369375", "title": "Cyberwarfare", "text": "Cyberwarfare\n\nCyberwarfare is the use or targeting in a battlespace or warfare context of computers, online control systems and networks. It involves both offensive and defensive operations pertaining to the threat of cyberattacks, espionage and sabotage. There has been controversy over whether such operations can be called \"war\". Nevertheless, powers have been developing cyber capabilities and engaged in cyberwarfare, both offensively and defensively, including the United States, China, Russia, Israel and the United Kingdom. Two other notable players are Iran and North Korea.\n\nA number of definitions of cyber warfare have been proposed, with no single definition being widely adopted internationally. Richard A. Clarke defines it as \"actions by a nation-state to penetrate another nation's computers or networks for the purposes of causing damage or disruption\". Martin Libicki defines two types of cyber warfare: strategic and operational, with strategic being \"a campaign of cyberattacks one entity carries out on another\", whilst operational cyber warfare \"involves the use of cyberattacks on the other side’s military in the context of a physical war.\"\n\nOther definitions include non-state actors, such as terrorist groups, companies, political or ideological extremist groups,terrorist hacktivists, and transnational criminal organizations.\n\nSome governments have made it an integral part of their overall military strategy, with some having invested heavily in cyberwarfare capability. One kind of cyberwarfare involves the kind of hacking that is the concern of penetration testing; in such cases, a government entity has established it as a warfighting capability, or a non-governmental entity has used it as a weapon against a state or its concerns.\n\nThis capability uses the same set of penetration testing methodologies but applies them, in the case of United States doctrine, in a strategic way to\n\nOffensive operations are also part of these national level strategies for officially declared wars as well as undeclared secretive operations.\n\nCyber warfare can present a multitude of threats towards a nation. At the most basic level, cyber attacks can be used to support traditional warfare. For example, tampering with the operation of air defences via cyber means in order to facilitate an air attack. Aside from these \"hard\" threats, cyber warfare can also contribute towards \"soft\" threats such as espionage and propaganda.\n\nTraditional espionage is not an act of war, nor is cyber-espionage, and both are generally assumed to be ongoing between major powers. Despite this assumption, some incidents can cause serious tensions between nations, and are often described as \"attacks\". For example:\n\n\nComputers and satellites that coordinate other activities are vulnerable components of a system and could lead to the disruption of equipment. Compromise of military systems, such as C4ISTAR components that are responsible for orders and communications could lead to their interception or malicious replacement. Power, water, fuel, communications, and transportation infrastructure all may be vulnerable to disruption. According to Clarke, the civilian realm is also at risk, noting that the security breaches have already gone beyond stolen credit card numbers, and that potential targets can also include the electric power grid, trains, or the stock market.\n\nIn mid-July 2010, security experts discovered a malicious software program called Stuxnet that had infiltrated factory computers and had spread to plants around the world. It is considered \"the first attack on critical industrial infrastructure that sits at the foundation of modern economies,\" notes \"The New York Times\".\n\nStuxnet, while extremely effective in delaying Iran's nuclear program for the development of nuclear weaponry, came at a high cost. For the first time, it became clear that not only could cyber weapons be defensive but they could be offensive. The large decentralization and scale of cyberspace makes it extremely difficult to direct from a policy perspective. Non-state actors can play as large a part in the cyberwar space as state actors, which leads to dangerous, sometimes disastrous, consequences. Small groups of highly skilled malware developers are able to as effectively impact global politics and cyber warfare as large governmental agencies. A major aspect of this ability lies in the willingness of these groups to share their exploits and developments on the web as a form of arms proliferation. This allows lesser hackers to become more proficient in creating the large scale attacks that once only a small handful were skillful enough to manage. In addition, thriving black markets for these kinds of cyber weapons are buying and selling these cyber capabilities to the highest bidder without regard for consequences.\n\nIn computing, a denial-of-service attack (DoS attack) or distributed denial-of-service attack (DDoS attack) is an attempt to make a machine or network resource unavailable to its intended users. Perpetrators of DoS attacks typically target sites or services hosted on high-profile web servers such as banks, credit card payment gateways, and even root nameservers. DoS attacks may not be limited to computer-based methods, as strategic physical attacks against infrastructure can be just as devastating. For example, cutting undersea communication cables may severely cripple some regions and countries with regards to their information warfare ability.\n\nThe federal government of the United States admits that the electric power grid is susceptible to cyberwarfare. The United States Department of Homeland Security works with industries to identify vulnerabilities and to help industries enhance the security of control system networks. The federal government is also working to ensure that security is built in as the next generation of \"smart grid\" networks are developed. In April 2009, reports surfaced that China and Russia had infiltrated the U.S. electrical grid and left behind software programs that could be used to disrupt the system, according to current and former national security officials. The North American Electric Reliability Corporation (NERC) has issued a public notice that warns that the electrical grid is not adequately protected from cyber attack. China denies intruding into the U.S. electrical grid. One countermeasure would be to disconnect the power grid from the Internet and run the net with droop speed control only. Massive power outages caused by a cyber attack could disrupt the economy, distract from a simultaneous military attack, or create a national trauma.\n\nHoward Schmidt, former Cyber-Security Coordinator of the US, commented on those possibilities:\n\nIt's possible that hackers have gotten into administrative computer systems of utility companies, but says those aren't linked to the equipment controlling the grid, at least not in developed countries. [Schmidt] has never heard that the grid itself has been hacked.\n\nOn 23 December 2015, what is believed to be a first known successful cyber attack on a power grid took place in Ukraine leading to temporary blackouts. The cyber attack is attributed to the Russian advanced persistent threat group called \"Sandworm\" and it was performed during an ongoing military confrontation.\n\nCyber propaganda is an effort to control information in whatever form it takes, and influence public opinion. It is a form of psychological warfare, except it uses social media, fake news websites and other digital means. In 2018, Sir Nicholas Carter, Chief of the General Staff of the British Army stated that this kind of attack from actors such as Russia \"is a form of system warfare that seeks to de-legitimise the political and social system on which our military strength is based\".\n\nJowell and O'Donnell (2006) state that \"propaganda is the deliberate, systematic attempt to shape perceptions, manipulate cognitions, and direct behavior to achieve a response that furthers the desired intent of the propagandist\" (p. 7). The internet is a phenomenal means of communication. People can get their message across to a huge audience, and with this opens a window for evil. Terrorist organizations can use this medium to brainwash people. It has been suggested that restricted media coverage of terrorist attacks would in turn decrease the number of terrorist attacks that occur afterwards (Cowen 2006).\n\nIn 2017, the WannaCry and Petya (NotPetya) cyber attacks, masquerading as ransomware, caused large-scale disruptions in Ukraine as well as to the U.K.’s Nation Health Service, pharmaceutical giant Merck, Maersk shipping company and other organizations around the world. These threats have been recognized as the onset of the fifth generation cyber attacks.\n\nIn the U.S., General Keith B. Alexander, first head of USCYBERCOM, told the Senate Armed Services Committee that computer network warfare is evolving so rapidly that there is a \"mismatch between our technical capabilities to conduct operations and the governing laws and policies. Cyber Command is the newest global combatant and its sole mission is cyberspace, outside the traditional battlefields of land, sea, air and space.\" It will attempt to find and, when necessary, neutralize cyberattacks and to defend military computer networks.\n\nAlexander sketched out the broad battlefield envisioned for the computer warfare command, listing the kind of targets that his new headquarters could be ordered to attack, including \"traditional battlefield prizes – command-and-control systems at military headquarters, air defense networks and weapons systems that require computers to operate.\"\n\nOne cyber warfare scenario, Cyber ShockWave, which was wargamed on the cabinet level by former administration officials, raised issues ranging from the National Guard to the power grid to the limits of statutory authority.\n\nThe distributed nature of internet based attacks means that it is difficult to determine motivation and attacking party, meaning that it is unclear when a specific act should be considered an act of war.\n\nExamples of cyberwarfare driven by political motivations can be found worldwide. In 2008, Russia began a cyber attack on the Georgian government website, which was carried out along with Georgian military operations in South Ossetia. In 2008, Chinese 'nationalist hackers' attacked CNN as it reported on Chinese repression on Tibet.\n\nJobs in cyberwarfare have become increasingly popular in the military. All four branches of the United States military actively recruit for cyber warfare positions.\n\nPotential targets in internet sabotage include all aspects of the Internet from the backbones of the web, to the internet service providers, to the varying types of data communication mediums and network equipment. This would include: web servers, enterprise information systems, client server systems, communication links, network equipment, and the desktops and laptops in businesses and homes. Electrical grids, financial networks, and telecommunication systems are also deemed vulnerable, especially due to current trends in computerization and automation.\n\nPolitically motivated hacktivism involves the subversive use of computers and computer networks to promote an agenda, and can potentially extend to attacks, theft and virtual sabotage that could be seen as cyberwarfare – or mistaken for it.\nHacktivists use their knowledge and software tools to gain unauthorized access to computer systems they seek to manipulate or damage not for material gain or to cause widespread destruction, but to draw attention to their cause through well-publicized disruptions of select targets. Anonymous and other hacktivist groups are often portrayed in the media as cyber-terrorists, wreaking havoc by hacking websites, posting sensitive information about their victims, and threatening further attacks if their demands are not met. However, hacktivism is more than that. They are politically motivated to change the world, through the use of fundamentalism. Groups like Anonymous have divided opinion with their methods.\n\nComputer hacking represents a modern threat in ongoing global conflicts and industrial espionage and as such is presumed to widely occur. It is typical that this type of crime is underreported to the extent they are known. According to McAfee's George Kurtz, corporations around the world face millions of cyberattacks a day. \"Most of these attacks don't gain any media attention or lead to strong political statements by victims.\" This type of crime is usually financially motivated.\n\nBut not all examinations with the issue of cyberwarfare are achieving profit or personal gain. There are still institutes and companies like the University of Cincinnati or the Kaspersky Security Lab which are trying to increase the sensibility of this topic by researching and publishing of new security threats.\n\nApproximately 120 countries have been developing ways to use the Internet as a weapon and target financial markets, government computer systems and utilities.\n\n\"Foreign Policy\" magazine puts the size of China's \"hacker army\" at anywhere from 50,000 to 100,000 individuals.\n\nDiplomatic cables highlight US concerns that China is using access to Microsoft source code and 'harvesting the talents of its private sector' to boost its offensive and defensive capabilities.\n\nA 2008 article in the \"Culture Mandala: The Bulletin of the Centre for East-West Cultural and Economic Studies\" by Jason Fritz alleges that the Chinese government from 1995 to 2008 was involved in a number of high-profile cases of espionage, primarily through the use of a \"decentralized network of students, business people, scientists, diplomats, and engineers from within the Chinese Diaspora\". A defector in Belgium, purportedly an agent, claimed that there were hundreds of spies in industries throughout Europe, and on his defection to Australia Chinese diplomat Chen Yonglin said there were over 1,000 such in that country. In 2007, a Russian executive was sentenced to 11 years for passing information about the rocket and space technology organization to China. Targets in the United States have included 'aerospace engineering programs, space shuttle design, C4ISR data, high-performance computers, Nuclear weapon design, cruise missile data, semiconductors, integrated circuit design, and details of US arms sales to Taiwan'.\n\nWhile China continues to be held responsible for a string of cyber-attacks on a number of public and private institutions in the United States, India, Russia, Canada, and France, the Chinese government denies any involvement in cyber-spying campaigns. The administration maintains the position that China is not the threat but rather the victim of an increasing number of cyber-attacks. Most reports about China's cyber warfare capabilities have yet to be confirmed by the Chinese government.\n\nAccording to Fritz, China has expanded its cyber capabilities and military technology by acquiring foreign military technology. Fritz states that the Chinese government uses \"new space-based surveillance and intelligence gathering systems, Anti-satellite weapon, anti-radar, infrared decoys, and false target generators\" to assist in this quest, and that they support their \"informationization\" of their military through \"increased education of soldiers in cyber warfare; improving the information network for military training, and has built more virtual laboratories, digital libraries and digital campuses.\" Through this informationization, they hope to prepare their forces to engage in a different kind of warfare, against technically capable adversaries. Many recent news reports link China's technological capabilities to the beginning of a new 'cyber cold war.'\n\nIn response to reports of cyberattacks by China against the United States, Amitai Etzioni of the Institute for Communitarian Policy Studies has suggested that China and the United States agree to a policy of mutually assured restraint with respect to cyberspace. This would involve allowing both states to take the measures they deem necessary for their self-defense while simultaneously agreeing to refrain from taking offensive steps; it would also entail vetting these commitments.\n\nOperation Shady RAT is an ongoing series of cyber attacks starting mid-2006, reported by Internet security company McAfee in August 2011. China is widely believed to be the state actor behind these attacks which hit at least 72 organizations including governments and defense contractors.\n\nThe Department of Information Technology created the Indian Computer Emergency Response Team (CERT-In) in 2004 to thwart cyber attacks in India. That year, there were 23 reported cyber security breaches. In 2011, there were 13,301. That year, the government created a new subdivision, the National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre (NCIIPC) to thwart attacks against energy, transport, banking, telecom, defence, space and other sensitive areas.\n\nThe Executive Director of the Nuclear Power Corporation of India (NPCIL) stated in February 2013 that his company alone was forced to block up to ten targeted attacks a day. CERT-In was left to protect less critical sectors.\n\nA high-profile cyber attack on 12 July 2012 breached the email accounts of about 12,000 people, including those of officials from the Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of Home Affairs, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO), and the Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP). A government-private sector plan being overseen by National Security Advisor (NSA) Shivshankar Menon began in October 2012, and intends to beef up India's cyber security capabilities in the light of a group of experts findings that India faces a 470,000 shortfall of such experts despite the country's reputation of being an IT and software powerhouse.\n\nIn February 2013, Information Technology Secretary J. Satyanarayana stated that the NCIIPC was finalizing policies related to national cyber security that would focus on domestic security solutions, reducing exposure through foreign technology. Other steps include the isolation of various security agencies to ensure that a synchronised attack could not succeed on all fronts and the planned appointment of a National Cyber Security Coordinator. As of that month, there had been no significant economic or physical damage to India related to cyber attacks.\n\nOn 26 November 2010, a group calling itself the Indian Cyber Army hacked the websites belonging to the Pakistan Army and the others belong to different ministries, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Finance, Pakistan Computer Bureau, Council of Islamic Ideology, etc. The attack was done as a revenge for the Mumbai terrorist attacks.\n\nOn 4 December 2010, a group calling itself the Pakistan Cyber Army hacked the website of India's top investigating agency, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The National Informatics Center (NIC) has begun an inquiry.\n\nIn July 2016, Cymmetria researchers discovered and revealed the cyber attack dubbed 'Patchwork', which compromised an estimated 2500 corporate and government agencies using code stolen from GitHub and the dark web. Examples of weapons used are an exploit for the Sandworm vulnerability (CVE-2014-4114), a compiled AutoIt script, and UAC bypass code dubbed UACME. Targets are believed to be mainly military and political assignments around Southeast Asia and the South China Sea and the attackers are believed to be of Indian origin and gathering intelligence from influential parties.\n\nThe Chinese are being blamed after a cybersecurity company, F-Secure Labs, found a malware, NanHaiShu, which targeted the Philippines Department of Justice. It sent information in an infected machine to a server with a Chinese IP address. The malware which is considered particularly sophisticated in nature was introduced by phishing emails that were designed to look like they were coming from an authentic sources. The information sent is believed to be relating to the South China Sea legal case.\n\nWhen Russia was still a part of the Soviet Union in 1982, a portion of its Trans-Siberia pipeline within its territory exploded, allegedly due to computer malware implanted in the pirated Canadian software by the Central Intelligence Agency. The malware caused the SCADA system running the pipeline to malfunction. The \"Farewell Dossier\" provided information on this attack, and wrote that compromised computer chips would become a part of Soviet military equipment, flawed turbines would be placed in the gas pipeline, and defective plans would disrupt the output of chemical plants and a tractor factor. This caused the \"most monumental nonnuclear explosion and fire ever seen from space.\" However, the Soviet Union did not blame the United States for the attack.\n\nRussian, South Ossetian, Georgian and Azerbaijani sites were attacked by hackers during the 2008 South Ossetia War.\n\nRussian-led cyberattacks<br>\nIt has been claimed that Russian security services organized a number of denial of service attacks as a part of their cyber-warfare against other countries, most notably the 2007 cyberattacks on Estonia and the 2008 cyberattacks on Russia, South Ossetia, Georgia, and Azerbaijan. One identified young Russian hacker said that he was paid by Russian state security services to lead hacking attacks on NATO computers. He was studying computer sciences at the \"Department of the Defense of Information\". His tuition was paid for by the FSB.\n\nIn July 2009, there were a series of coordinated denial of service attacks against major government, news media, and financial websites in South Korea and the United States. While many thought the attack was directed by North Korea, one researcher traced the attacks to the United Kingdom. Security researcher Chris Kubecka presented evidence multiple European Union and United Kingdom companies unwittingly helped attack South Korea due to a W32.Dozer infections, malware used in part of the attack. Some of the companies used in the attack were partially owned by several governments, further complicating attribution.\nIn July 2011, the South Korean company SK Communications was hacked, resulting in the theft of the personal details (including names, phone numbers, home and email addresses and resident registration numbers) of up to 35 million people. A trojaned software update was used to gain access to the SK Communications network. Links exist between this hack and other malicious activity and it is believed to be part of a broader, concerted hacking effort.\n\nWith ongoing tensions on the Korean Peninsula, South Korea's defense ministry stated that South Korea was going to improve cyber-defense strategies in hopes of preparing itself from possible cyber attacks. In March 2013, South Korea's major banks – Shinhan Bank, Woori Bank and NongHyup Bank – as well as many broadcasting stations – KBS, YTN and MBC – were hacked and more than 30,000 computers were affected; it is one of the biggest attacks South Korea has faced in years. Although it remains uncertain as to who was involved in this incident, there has been immediate assertions that North Korea is connected, as it threatened to attack South Korea's government institutions, major national banks and traditional newspapers numerous times – in reaction to the sanctions it received from nuclear testing and to the continuation of Foal Eagle, South Korea's annual joint military exercise with the United States. North Korea's cyber warfare capabilities raise the alarm for South Korea, as North Korea is increasing its manpower through military academies specializing in hacking. Current figures state that South Korea only has 400 units of specialized personnel, while North Korea has more than 3,000 highly trained hackers; this portrays a huge gap in cyber warfare capabilities and sends a message to South Korea that it has to step up and strengthen its Cyber Warfare Command forces. Therefore, in order to be prepared from future attacks, South Korea and the United States will discuss further about deterrence plans at the Security Consultative Meeting (SCM). At SCM, they plan on developing strategies that focuses on accelerating the deployment of ballistic missiles as well as fostering its defense shield program, known as the Korean Air and Missile Defense.\n\nIn April 2007, Estonia came under cyber attack in the wake of relocation of the Bronze Soldier of Tallinn. The largest part of the attacks were coming from Russia and from official servers of the authorities of Russia. In the attack, ministries, banks, and media were targeted. This attack on Estonia, a seemingly small Baltic nation, was so effective because of how most of the nation is run online. Estonia has implemented an e-government, where bank services, political elections and taxes are all done online. This attack really hurt Estonia's economy and the people of Estonia. At least 150 people were injured on the first day due to riots in the streets.\n\nIn 2013, the French Minister of Defense, Mr Jean-Yves Le Drian, ordered the creation of a cyberarmy, representing its 4th national army corp (along with ground, naval and air forces) under the French Ministry of Defense, to protect French and European interests on its soil and abroad. A contract was made with French firm EADS (Airbus) to identify and secure its main elements susceptible to cyber threats. \nIn 2016 France had thus built the largest cyberarmy in Europe, with a planned 2600 \"cyber-soldiers\" and a 440 million euros investment for cybersecurity products for this new army corp. An additional 4400 reservists constitute the heart of this army from 2019.\n\nIn 2013, Germany revealed the existence of their 60-person Computer Network Operation unit. The German intelligence agency, BND, announced it was seeking to hire 130 \"hackers\" for a new \"cyber defence station\" unit. In March 2013, BND president Gerhard Schindler announced that his agency had observed up to five attacks a day on government authorities, thought mainly to originate in China. He confirmed the attackers had so far only accessed data and expressed concern that the stolen information could be used as the basis of future sabotage attacks against arms manufacturers, telecommunications companies and government and military agencies. Shortly after Edward Snowden leaked details of the U.S. National Security Agency's cyber surveillance system, German Interior Minister Hans-Peter Friedrich announced that the BND would be given an additional budget of 100 million Euros to increase their cyber surveillance capability from 5% of total internet traffic in Germany to 20% of total traffic, the maximum amount allowed by German law.\n\nIn the Netherlands, Cyber Defense is nationally coordinated by the (NCSC). The Dutch Ministry of Defense laid out a cyber strategy in 2011. The first focus is to improve the cyber defense handled by the Joint IT branch (JIVC). To improve intel operations the intel community in the Netherlands (including the military intel organization MIVD) has set up the Joint Sigint Cyber Unit (JSCU). The ministry of Defense is furthermore setting up an offensive cyber force, called Defensie Cyber Command (DCC), which will be operational in the end of 2014.\n\nIn January 2017, Sweden's armed forces were subjected to a cyber-attack that caused them to shutdown a so-called Caxcis IT system used in military exercises.\n\nAccording to CrowdStrike from 2014 to 2016, the Russian APT Fancy Bear used Android malware to target the Ukrainian Army's Rocket Forces and Artillery. They distributed an infected version of an Android app whose original purpose was to control targeting data for the D-30 Howitzer artillery. The app, used by Ukrainian officers, was loaded with the X-Agent spyware and posted online on military forums. The attack was claimed by CrowdStrike to be successful, with more than 80% of Ukrainian D-30 Howitzers destroyed, the highest percentage loss of any artillery pieces in the army (a percentage that had never been previously reported and would mean the loss of nearly the entire arsenal of the biggest artillery piece of the Ukrainian Armed Forces). According to the Ukrainian army this number is incorrect and that losses in artillery weapons \"were way below those reported\" and that these losses \"have nothing to do with the stated cause\".\n\nIn 2014, the Russians were suspected to use a cyber weapon called \"Snake\", or \"Ouroboros,\" to conduct a cyber attack on Ukraine during a period of political turmoil. The Snake tool kit began spreading into Ukrainian computer systems in 2010. It performed Computer Network Exploitation (CNE), as well as highly sophisticated Computer Network Attacks (CNA).\n\nOn December 23, 2015 the BlackEnergy malware was used in a cyberattack on Ukraine's powergrid that left more than 200,000 people temporarily without power. A mining company and a large railway operator were also victims of the attack.\n\nMI6 reportedly infiltrated an Al Qaeda website and replaced the instructions for making a pipe bomb with the recipe for making cupcakes.\n\nIn October 2010, Iain Lobban, the director of the Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ), said the UK faces a \"real and credible\" threat from cyber attacks by hostile states and criminals and government systems are targeted 1,000 times each month, such attacks threatened the UK's economic future, and some countries were already using cyber assaults to put pressure on other nations.\n\nOn 12 November 2013, financial organisations in London conducted cyber war games dubbed 'Waking Shark 2' to simulate massive internet-based attacks against bank and other financial organisations. The Waking Shark 2 cyber war games followed a similar exercise in Wall Street.\n\nIran has been both victim and predator of several cyberwarfare operations. Iran is considered an emerging military power in the field.\n\nIn September 2010, Iran was attacked by the Stuxnet worm, thought to specifically target its Natanz nuclear enrichment facility. It was a 500-kilobyte computer worm that infected at least 14 industrial sites in Iran, including the Natanz uranium-enrichment plant. Although the official authors of Stuxnet haven’t been officially identified, Stuxnet is believed to be developed and deployed by the United States and Israel. The worm is said to be the most advanced piece of malware ever discovered and significantly increases the profile of cyberwarfare.\n\nIn the 2006 war against Hezbollah, Israel alleges that cyber-warfare was part of the conflict, where the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) intelligence estimates several countries in the Middle East used Russian hackers and scientists to operate on their behalf. As a result, Israel attached growing importance to cyber-tactics, and became, along with the U.S., France and a couple of other nations, involved in cyber-war planning. Many international high-tech companies are now locating research and development operations in Israel, where local hires are often veterans of the IDF's elite computer units. Richard A. Clarke adds that \"our Israeli friends have learned a thing or two from the programs we have been working on for more than two decades.\"\n\nIn September 2007, Israel carried out an airstrike on Syria dubbed Operation Orchard. U.S. industry and military sources speculated that the Israelis may have used cyberwarfare to allow their planes to pass undetected by radar into Syria.\n\nFollowing US President Donald Trump's decision to pull out of the Iran nuclear deal in May 2018, cyber warfare units in the United States and Israel monitoring internet traffic out of Iran noted a surge in retaliatory cyber attacks from Iran. sSecurity firms warned that Iranian hackers were sending emails containing malware to diplomats who work in the foreign affairs offices of US allies and employees at telecommunications companies, trying to infiltrate their computer systems.\n\nOn August 15, 2012 at 11:08 am local time, the Shamoon virus began destroying over 35,000 computer systems, rendering them inoperable. The virus used to target the Saudi government by causing destruction to the state owned national oil company Saudi Aramco. The attackers posted a pastie on PasteBin.com hours prior to the wiper logic bomb occurring, citing oppression and the Al-Saud regime as a reason behind the attack. The attack was well staged according to Chris Kubecka, a former security advisor to Saudi Aramco after the attack and group leader of security for Aramco Overseas. It was an unnamed Saudi Aramco employee on the Information Technology team which opened a malicious phishing email, allowing initial entry into the computer network around mid-2012\n\nKubecka also detailed in her Black Hat USA talk Saudi Aramco placed the majority of their security budget on the ICS control network, leaving the business network at risk for a major incident. \"When you realize most of your security budget was spent on ICS & IT gets Pwnd\". The virus has been noted to have behavior differing from other malware attacks, due to the destructive nature and the cost of the attack and recovery. US Defense Secretary Leon Panetta called the attack a \"Cyber Pearl Harbor\" Known years later as the \"Biggest hack in history\" and intended for cyber warfare. Shamoon can spread from an infected machine to other computers on the network. Once a system is infected, the virus continues to compile a list of files from specific locations on the system, upload them to the attacker, and erase them. Finally the virus overwrites the master boot record of the infected computer, making it unusable. \n\nSaudi Aramco announced the attack on their Facebook page and went offline again until a company statement was issued on 25 August 2012. The statement falsely reported normal business was resumed on 25 August 2012. However a Middle Eastern journalist leaked photographs taken on 1 September 2012 showing kilometers of petrol trucks unable to be loaded due to backed business systems still inoperable. \nOn August 29, 2012 the same attackers behind Shamoon posted another pastie on PasteBin.com, taunting Saudi Aramco with proof they still retained access to the company network. The post contained the username and password on security and network equipment and the new password for the CEO Khalid Al- Falih The attackers also referenced a portion of the Shamoon malware as further proof in the pastie.\n\nAccording to Kubecka, in order to restore operations. Saudi Aramco used its large private fleet of aircraft and available funds to purchase much of the world's hard drives, driving the price up. New hard drives were required as quickly as possible so oil prices were not affected by speculation. By September 1, 2012 gasoline resources were dwindling for the public of Saudi Arabia 17 days after the August 15th attack. RasGas was also affected by a different variant, crippling them in a similar manner.\n\nIn March 2018 American Republican fundraiser Elliott Broidy filed a lawsuit against Qatar, alleging that Qatar's government stole and leaked his emails in order to discredit him because he was viewed \"as an impediment to their plan to improve the country's standing in Washington.\" In May 2018, the lawsuit named Mohammed bin Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, brother of the Emir of Qatar, and his associate Ahmed Al-Rumaihi, as allegedly orchestrating Qatar's cyber warfare campaign against Broidy. Further litigation revealed that the same cybercriminals who targeted Broidy had targeted as many as 1,200 other individuals, some of whom are also \"well-known enemies of Qatar\" such as senior officials of the U.A.E., Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and Bahrain. While these hackers almost always obscured their location, some of their activity was traced to a telecommunication network in Qatar.\n\nCyberwarfare in the United States is a part of the American military strategy of proactive cyber defence and the use of cyberwarfare as a platform for attack. The new United States military strategy makes explicit that a cyberattack is \"casus belli\" just as a traditional act of war.\n\nIn 2013 Cyberwarfare was, for the first time, considered a larger threat than Al Qaeda or terrorism, by many U.S. intelligence officials. In 2017, Representative Mike Rogers, chairman of the U.S. House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, for instance, said that \n\"We are in a cyber war in this country, and most Americans don't know it. And we are not necessarily winning. We have got huge challenges when it comes to cybersecurity.\"\n\nU.S. government security expert Richard A. Clarke, in his book \"Cyber War\" (May 2010), defines \"cyberwarfare\" as \"actions by a nation-state to penetrate another nation's computers or networks for the purposes of causing damage or disruption.\" \"The Economist\" describes cyberspace as \"the fifth domain of warfare,\" and William J. Lynn, U.S. Deputy Secretary of Defense, states that \"as a doctrinal matter, the Pentagon has formally recognized cyberspace as a new domain in warfare . . . [which] has become just as critical to military operations as land, sea, air, and space.\"\n\nIn 2009, president Barack Obama declared America's digital infrastructure to be a \"strategic national asset,\" and in May 2010 the Pentagon set up its new U.S. Cyber Command (USCYBERCOM), headed by General Keith B. Alexander, director of the National Security Agency (NSA), to defend American military networks and attack other countries' systems. The EU has set up ENISA (European Union Agency for Network and Information Security) which is headed by Prof. Udo Helmbrecht and there are now further plans to significantly expand ENISA's capabilities. The United Kingdom has also set up a cyber-security and \"operations centre\" based in Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ), the British equivalent of the NSA. In the U.S. however, Cyber Command is only set up to protect the military, whereas the government and corporate infrastructures are primarily the responsibility respectively of the Department of Homeland Security and private companies.\n\nIn February 2010, top American lawmakers warned that the \"threat of a crippling attack on telecommunications and computer networks was sharply on the rise.\" According to The Lipman Report, numerous key sectors of the U.S. economy along with that of other nations, are currently at risk, including cyber threats to public and private facilities, banking and finance, transportation, manufacturing, medical, education and government, all of which are now dependent on computers for daily operations. In 2009, president Obama stated that \"cyber intruders have probed our electrical grids.\"\n\n\"The Economist\" writes that China has plans of \"winning informationised wars by the mid-21st century\". They note that other countries are likewise organizing for cyberwar, among them Russia, Israel and North Korea. Iran boasts of having the world's second-largest cyber-army. James Gosler, a government cybersecurity specialist, worries that the U.S. has a severe shortage of computer security specialists, estimating that there are only about 1,000 qualified people in the country today, but needs a force of 20,000 to 30,000 skilled experts. At the July 2010 Black Hat computer security conference, Michael Hayden, former deputy director of national intelligence, challenged thousands of attendees to help devise ways to \"reshape the Internet's security architecture\", explaining, \"You guys made the cyberworld look like the north German plain.\"\n\nIn January 2012, Mike McConnell, the former director of national intelligence at the National Security Agency under president George W. Bush told the Reuters news agency that the U.S. has already launched attacks on computer networks in other countries. McConnell did not name the country that the U.S. attacked but according to other sources it may have been Iran. In June 2012 \"the New York Times\" reported that president Obama had ordered the cyber attack on Iranian nuclear enrichment facilities.\n\nIn August 2010, the U.S. for the first time warned publicly about the Chinese military's use of civilian computer experts in clandestine cyber attacks aimed at American companies and government agencies. The Pentagon also pointed to an alleged China-based computer spying network dubbed GhostNet that was revealed in a research report last year. The Pentagon stated:\n\nThe People's Liberation Army is using \"information warfare units\" to develop viruses to attack enemy computer systems and networks, and those units include civilian computer professionals. Commander Bob Mehal, will monitor the PLA's buildup of its cyberwarfare capabilities and will continue to develop capabilities to counter any potential threat.\n\nThe United States Department of Defense sees the use of computers and the Internet to conduct warfare in cyberspace as a threat to national security. The United States Joint Forces Command describes some of its attributes:\n\nCyberspace technology is emerging as an \"instrument of power\" in societies, and is becoming more available to a country's opponents, who may use it to attack, degrade, and disrupt communications and the flow of information. With low barriers to entry, coupled with the anonymous nature of activities in cyberspace, the list of potential adversaries is broad. Furthermore, the globe-spanning range of cyberspace and its disregard for national borders will challenge legal systems and complicate a nation's ability to deter threats and respond to contingencies.\n\nIn February 2010, the United States Joint Forces Command released a study which included a summary of the threats posed by the internet:\n\nWith very little investment, and cloaked in a veil of anonymity, our adversaries will inevitably attempt to harm our national interests. Cyberspace will become a main front in both irregular and traditional conflicts. Enemies in cyberspace will include both states and non-states and will range from the unsophisticated amateur to highly trained professional hackers. Through cyberspace, enemies will target industry, academia, government, as well as the military in the air, land, maritime, and space domains. In much the same way that airpower transformed the battlefield of World War II, cyberspace has fractured the physical barriers that shield a nation from attacks on its commerce and communication. Indeed, adversaries have already taken advantage of computer networks and the power of information technology not only to plan and execute savage acts of terrorism, but also to influence directly the perceptions and will of the U.S. Government and the American population.\n\nOn 6 October 2011, it was announced that Creech AFB's drone and Predator fleet's command and control data stream had been keylogged, resisting all attempts to reverse the exploit, for the past two weeks. The Air Force issued a statement that the virus had \"posed no threat to our operational mission\".\n\nOn 21 November 2011, it was widely reported in the U.S. media that a hacker had destroyed a water pump at the Curran-Gardner Township Public Water District in Illinois. However, it later turned out that this information was not only false, but had been inappropriately leaked from the Illinois Statewide Terrorism and Intelligence Center.\n\nAccording to the \"Foreign Policy\" magazine, NSA's Tailored Access Operations (TAO) unit \"has successfully penetrated Chinese computer and telecommunications systems for almost 15 years, generating some of the best and most reliable intelligence information about what is going on inside the People's Republic of China.\"\n\nOn 24 November 2014. The Sony Pictures Entertainment hack was a release of confidential data belonging to Sony Pictures Entertainment (SPE).\n\nIn June 2015, the United States Office of Personnel Management (OPM) announced that it had been the target of a data breach targeting the records of as many as four million people. Later, FBI Director James Comey put the number at 18 million. The \"Washington Post\" has reported that the attack originated in China, citing unnamed government officials.\n\nIn 2016, Jeh Johnson the United States Secretary of Homeland Security and James Clapper the U.S. Director of National Intelligence issued a joint statement accusing Russia of interfering with the 2016 United States presidential election. The New York Times reported the Obama administration has formally accused Russia of stealing and disclosing Democratic National Committee emails. Under U.S. law (50 U.S.C.Title 50 – War and National Defense, Chapter 15 – National Security, Subchapter III Accountability for Intelligence Activities ) there must be a formal \"Presidential finding\" prior to authorizing a covert attack. U.S. vice president Joe Biden said on the American news interview program \"Meet The Press\" that the United States will respond. The New York Times noted that Biden's comment \"seems to suggest that Mr. Obama is prepared to order — or has already ordered — some kind of covert action\". On December 29 the United States imposed the most extensive sanctions against Russia since the Cold War, expelling 35 Russian diplomats from the United States.\n\nThe United States has used cyberattacks for tactical advantage in Afghanistan.\n\nIn 2014 Barack Obama ordered an intensification of cyberwarfare against North Korea's missile program for sabotaging test launches in their opening seconds. In 2016 President Barack Obama authorized the planting of cyber weapons in Russian infrastructure in the final weeks of his presidency in response to Moscow’s alleged interference in the 2016 presidential election.\n\nIn March 2017, WikiLeaks has published more than 8,000 documents on the CIA. The confidential documents, codenamed Vault 7 and dated from 2013–2016, include details on CIA's software capabilities, such as the ability to compromise cars, smart TVs, web browsers (including Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge, Mozilla Firefox, and Opera Software ASA), and the operating systems of most smartphones (including Apple's iOS and Google's Android), as well as other operating systems such as Microsoft Windows, macOS, and Linux.\n\nFor a global perspective of countries and other actors engaged in cyber warfare, see the George Washington University-based National Security Archive's CyberWar map.\n\n\"Kill switch bill\"<br>\n\nOn 19 June 2010, United States Senator Joe Lieberman (I-CT) introduced a bill called \"Protecting Cyberspace as a National Asset Act of 2010\", which he co-wrote with Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) and Senator Thomas Carper (D-DE). If signed into law, this controversial bill, which the American media dubbed the \"Kill switch bill\", would grant the president emergency powers over parts of the Internet. However, all three co-authors of the bill issued a statement that instead, the bill \"[narrowed] existing broad presidential authority to take over telecommunications networks\".\n\nThe rise of cyber as a warfighting domain has led to efforts to determine how cyberspace can be used to foster peace. For example, the German civil rights panel runs a campaign for cyberpeace − for the control of cyberweapons and surveillance technology and against the militarization of cyberspace and the development and stockpiling of offensive exploits and malware. Measures for cyberpeace include policymakers developing new rules and norms for warfare, individuals and organizations building new tools and secure infrastructures, promoting open source, the establishment of cyber security centers, auditing of critical infrastructure cybersecurity, obligations to disclose vulnerabilities, disarmament, defensive security strategies, decentralization, education and widely applying relevant tools and infrastructures, encryption and other cyberdefenses.\n\nThe topics of cyber peacekeeping and cyber peacemaking have also been studied by researchers, as a way to restore and strengthen peace in the aftermath of both cyber and traditional warfare.\n\nCyber counter-intelligence are measures to identify, penetrate, or neutralize foreign operations that use cyber means as the primary tradecraft methodology, as well as foreign intelligence service collection efforts that use traditional methods to gauge cyber capabilities and intentions.\n\n\nOne of the hardest issues in cyber counterintelligence is the problem of attribution. Unlike conventional warfare, figuring out who is behind an attack can be very difficult. However Defense Secretary Leon Panetta has claimed that the United States has the capability to trace attacks back to their sources and hold the attackers \"accountable\".\n\nThere is debate on whether the term \"cyberwarfare\" is accurate.\n\nEugene Kaspersky, founder of Kaspersky Lab, concludes that \"cyberterrorism\" is a more accurate term than \"cyberwar\". He states that \"with today's attacks, you are clueless about who did it or when they will strike again. It's not cyber-war, but cyberterrorism.\" He also equates large-scale cyber weapons, such as Flame and NetTraveler which his company discovered, to biological weapons, claiming that in an interconnected world, they have the potential to be equally destructive.\n\nIn October 2011 the \"Journal of Strategic Studies\", a leading journal in that field, published an article by Thomas Rid, \"Cyber War Will Not Take Place\" which argued that all politically motivated cyber attacks are merely sophisticated versions of sabotage, espionage, or subversion – and that it is unlikely that cyber war will occur in the future.\n\nHoward Schmidt, an American cybersecurity expert, argued in March 2010 that \"there is no cyberwar... I think that is a terrible metaphor and I think that is a terrible concept. There are no winners in that environment.\"\n\nOther experts, however, believe that this type of activity already constitutes a war. The warfare analogy is often seen intended to motivate a militaristic response when that is not necessarily appropriate. Ron Deibert, of Canada's Citizen Lab, has warned of a \"militarization of cyberspace\".\n\nThe European cybersecurity expert Sandro Gaycken argued for a middle position. He considers cyberwar from a legal perspective an unlikely scenario, due to the reasons lined out by Rid (and, before him, Sommer), but the situation looks different from a strategic point of view. States have to consider military-led cyber operations an attractive activity, within and without war, as they offer a large variety of cheap and risk-free options to weaken other countries and strengthen their own positions. Considered from a long-term, geostrategic perspective, cyber offensive operations can cripple whole economies, change political views, agitate conflicts within or among states, reduce their military efficiency and equalize the capacities of high-tech nations to that of low-tech nations, and use access to their critical infrastructures to blackmail them.\n\nOxford academic Lucas Kello proposed a new term – \"unpeace\" – to denote highly damaging cyber actions whose non-violent effects do not rise to the level of traditional war. Such actions are neither warlike nor peacelike. Although they are non-violent, and thus not acts of war, their damaging effects on the economy and society may be greater than even some armed attacks.\n\nThe idea of a \"cyber Pearl Harbor\" has been debated by scholars, drawing an analogy to the historical act of war. Others have used \"cyber 9/11\" to draw attention to the nontraditional, asymmetric, or irregular aspect of cyber action against a state.\n\nVarious parties have attempted to come up with international legal frameworks to clarify what is and is not acceptable, but none have yet been widely accepted.\n\nThe Tallinn Manual, published in 2013, is an academic, non-binding study on how international law, in particular the jus ad bellum and international humanitarian law, apply to cyber conflicts and cyber warfare. It was written at the invitation of the Tallinn-based NATO Cooperative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence by an international group of approximately twenty experts between 2009 and 2012.\n\nThe Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (members of which include China and Russia) defines cyberwar to include dissemination of information \"harmful to the spiritual, moral and cultural spheres of other states\". In September 2011, these countries proposed to the UN Secretary General a document called \"International code of conduct for information security\".\n\nIn contrast, the United States' approach focuses on physical and economic damage and injury, putting political concerns under freedom of speech. This difference of opinion has led to reluctance in the West to pursue global cyber arms control agreements.\nHowever, American General Keith B. Alexander did endorse talks with Russia over a proposal to limit military attacks in cyberspace. In June 2013, Barack Obama and Vladimir Putin agreed to install a secure \"Cyberwar-Hotline\" providing \"a direct secure voice communications line between the US cybersecurity coordinator and the Russian deputy secretary of the security council, should there be a need to directly manage a crisis situation arising from an ICT security incident\" (White House quote).\n\nA Ukrainian professor of International Law, Alexander Merezhko, has developed a project called the International Convention on Prohibition of Cyberwar in Internet. According to this project, cyberwar is defined as the use of Internet and related technological means by one state against the political, economic, technological and information sovereignty and independence of another state. Professor Merezhko's project suggests that the Internet ought to remain free from warfare tactics and be treated as an international landmark. He states that the Internet (cyberspace) is a \"common heritage of mankind\".\n\nOn the February 2017 RSA Conference Microsoft president Brad Smith suggested global rules – a \"Digital Geneva Convention\" – for cyber attacks that \"ban the nation-state hacking of all the civilian aspects of our economic and political infrastructures\". He also stated that an independent organization could investigate and publicly disclose evidence that attributes nation-state attacks to specific countries. Furthermore, he said that the technology sector should collectively and neutrally work together to protect Internet users and pledge to remain neutral in conflict and not aid governments in offensive activity and to adopt a coordinated disclosure process for software and hardware vulnerabilities.\n\nDocumentaries<br>\n\n\n\nVideos\n\nArticles\n"}
{"id": "18880664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18880664", "title": "Deep state", "text": "Deep state\n\nA deep state (from , also known as a state within a state) is a political situation in a country when an internal organ, such as the armed forces or public authorities (intelligence agencies, police, secret police, administrative agencies, and branches of government bureaucracy), does not respond to the civilian political leadership. Although the state within a state can be conspiratorial in nature, the deep state can also take the form of entrenched unelected career civil servants acting in a non-conspiratorial manner, to further their own interests (e.g. continuity of the state as distinct from the administration, job security, enhanced power and authority, pursuit of ideological goals and objectives, and the general growth of their agency) and in opposition to the policies of elected officials, by obstructing, resisting, and subverting the policies, conditions and directives of elected officials. The term, like many in politics, derives from the Greek language (κράτος εν κράτει, \"kratos en kratei\", later adopted into Latin as \"imperium in imperio\" or \"status in statu\").\n\nSometimes the term refers to state companies that, though formally under the command of the government, act 'de facto' like private corporations. Sometimes the term refers to companies that, though formally private, act \"de facto\" like \"states within a state\".\n\nPolitical debate surrounding the separation of church and state previously revolved around the perception that if left unchecked the Church might turn into a kind of State within a State, an illegitimate outgrowth of the State's natural civil power.\n\nIn the field of political science, this pop culture concept is studied within the literature on the state. Current literature on the state generally traces a lineage to \"Bringing the State Back In\" (1985) and remains an active body of scholarly research to this day. Within this literature, the state is understood as both \"venue\" (a set of rules under which others act and interact) as well as \"actor\" (with its own agenda). An example of a non-conspiratorial version of the 'state as actor' from the empirical scholarly literature would be \"doing truth to power\" (as a play on speaking truth to power, which is what journalists often aspire to do) as studied by Todd La Porte. Under this dual understanding, the conspiratorial version of the deep state concept would be one version of the 'state as actor' while the non-conspiratorial version would be another version of the 'state as venue.' \n\nThe fundamental takeaway from the scholarly literature on the dual nature of the state is that the 'state as actor' (deep state) is a characteristic of all states which can have both good and bad effects and should not be seen as bad by default.\n\nThe Soviet secret police have been frequently described by historians as a \"state within a state\". According to Yevgenia Albats, most KGB leaders, including Lavrenty Beria, Yuri Andropov, and Vladimir Kryuchkov, always competed for power with the Communist Party and manipulated communist leaders.\n\nAccording to Abdurakhman Avtorkhanov, \"It is not true that the Political Bureau of the Central Committee of the Communist Party is a supreme power. The Political Bureau is only a shadow of the real supreme power that stands behind the chair of every Bureau member ... The real power thinks, acts and dictates for all of us. The name of the power is NKVD—MVD—MGB. The Stalin regime is based not on the Soviets, Party ideals, the power of the Political Bureau or Stalin's personality, but on the organization and the techniques of the Soviet political police where Stalin plays the role of the first policeman.\" However, he also noted that \"To say that NKVD is ‘a state within the state’ means to belittle the importance of the NKVD because this question allows two forces – a normal state and a supernormal NKVD – whereas the only force is Chekism\".\n\nAccording to Ion Mihai Pacepa in 2006, \"In the Soviet Union, the KGB was a state within a state. Now former KGB officers are running the state. They have custody of the country's 6,000 nuclear weapons, entrusted to the KGB in the 1950s, and they now also manage the strategic oil industry renationalized by Putin. The KGB successor, rechristened FSB, still has the right to electronically monitor the population, control political groups, search homes and businesses, infiltrate the federal government, create its own front enterprises, investigate cases, and run its own prison system. The Soviet Union had one KGB officer for every 428 citizens. Putin's Russia has one FSB-ist for every 297 citizens.\n\nAccording to Julia Ioffe, under Ramzan Kadyrov, Chechnya has become a state within a state.\n\nThe Civil Service has been called a 'deep state' by senior politicians in the United Kingdom. Tony Blair said of the Civil Service, \"You cannot underestimate how much they believe it’s their job to actually run the country and to resist the changes put forward by people they dismiss as ‘here today, gone tomorrow’ politicians. They genuinely see themselves as the true guardians of the national interest, and think that their job is simply to wear you down and wait you out.\" The efforts of the Civil Service to frustrate elected politicians is the subject of the popular satiric BBC TV comedy, \"Yes Minister\".\n\nIn the United States, the term \"deep state\" was used to describe \"a hybrid association of government elements and parts of top-level industry and finance that is effectively able to govern the United States without reference to the consent of the governed as expressed through the formal political process.\" Intelligence agencies such as the CIA have been accused by elements of the Trump administration of attempting to thwart its policy goals. Writing for the The New York Times, the analyst Issandr El Amani warned against the \"growing discord between a president and his bureaucratic rank-and-file\", while analysts of the column \"The Interpreter\" wrote:\n\nThe Cartel of the Suns, a group of high-ranking officials within the Bolivarian Government of Venezuela, has been described as \"a series of often competing networks buried deep within the Chavista regime\". Following the Bolivarian Revolution in Venezuela, the Bolivarian government initially embezzled until there were no more funds to embezzle, which required them to turn to drug trafficking. President Hugo Chávez made partnerships with the Colombian leftist militia Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC) and his successor Nicolás Maduro continued the process, promoting officials to high-ranking positions after they were accused of drug trafficking.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34137135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34137135", "title": "Doc Society", "text": "Doc Society\n\nDoc Society (formerly Channel 4 BRITDOC Foundation and BRITDOC Foundation) is a social entrepreneurship organisation created in 2005. They have supported the production of over 60 films that have won awards .\n\nInitially supported by UK broadcaster Channel 4 to support British documentaries declined by broadcast commissioners, the BRITDOC Foundation has grown to receive further funding from NGOs, brands and foundations such as PUMA.Creative and the Bertha Foundation to invest in the support of documentary film. The Foundation also works in other areas of film funding by creating the pitching forum 'Good Pitch' and popular film torrent site VODO. Their mission is to support international documentary film from production to distribution to outreach. The Foundation is headed by three directors: Jess Search, Beadie Finzi and Maxyne Franklin.\n\nDocumentary titles the Foundation has supported include \"The Bengali Detective\" by Phillip Cox, \"Hell and Back Again\" by Danfung Dennis, \"Self Made\" by Gillian Wearing, \"The Yes Men Fix the World\" by Mike Bonanno, Andy Bichlbaum & Kurt Engfehr, \"Erasing David\" by filmmaker David Bond (d.) Ashley Jones (p.), \"Sounds Like Teen Spirit: a Popumentary\" by Jamie Jay Johnson, \"Moving to Mars\" by Mat Whitecross (d.) and Karen Katz (p.), \"The End of the Line\" by Rupert Murray, \"The Solitary life of Cranes\" by Eva Weber, \"Afghan Star\" by Havana Marking, \"We Are Together\" Paul Taylor (d.) and Teddy Leifer (p.) and \"Here's Johnny\" by Adam Lavis, Kat Mansoor and Will Hood.\n\nAs a result of the long-term partnership initiated in 2010 between BRITDOC Foundation and PUMA.Creative, a growing number of international films concerned with the themes of social justice, peace and environmental issues have received funding and support.\n\nThe following films were winners of the PUMA.Creative Catalyst Award: \"Speed Sisters\" by Geoffrey Smith, \"DRAGONSLAYER\" by Tristan Patterson, \"Teenage\" by Matt Wolf, \"Charlie PELE\" by F. Simiyu Barasa, \"Shadow Girl\" by Maria Teresa Larrain, \"Beyond the Wave\" by Kyoko Miyake, \"I, Afrikaner\" by Annalet Steenkamp, \"Femme à la Camera\" by Karima Zoubir.\n\nPUMA.Creative Mobility Award winners: \"\" by Alison Klayman, \"Fish Fight Europe\" by William Anderson, \"Who is Dayani Cristal?\" by Marc Silver, \"A Small Act\" by Jennifer Arnold, \"Turkey Creek\" by Leah Mahan, \"The Island President\" by Jon Shenk, \"Ping Pong\" by Hugh Hartford, \"25 to Life\" by Mike Brown, \"Moving to Mars\" by Matt Whitecross (this film provided the inspiration for the song \"Moving to Mars\" by Coldplay).\n\n\"Good Pitch\" is a documentary pitching platform established at the BRITDOC Film Festival in 2008. It is a partnership between The Channel 4 BRITDOC Foundation and The Sundance Institute Documentary Film Program. The international platform brings together filmmakers with NGOs, foundations, philanthropists, brands and media around leading social issues – to forge coalitions and campaigns for the benefit of all parties. To date, more than 90 documentary projects have been presented at Good Pitch events in London, Oxford, New York City, Washington, D.C., Toronto, San Francisco and Johannesburg. In that time more than 1,500 organisations have attended.\n\nAdditionally in 2011, BRITDOC Foundation launched a satellite version of the forum, called Good Pitch² (Good Pitch Squared). With the same mission as their flagship events – to 'connect good films to good people'. The first Good Pitch² was held by the People to People (P2P) International Documentary Conference in Johannesburg on 13 September 2011. Good Pitch² events have been hosted in India, Argentina, Taiwan, Australia with events scheduled for Kenya and Southeast Asia.\n\nRecently the Bertha Foundation has partnered with the BRITDOC Foundation to launch two new funds for documentary feature films totalling £1.5 million over three years. The funds are available for journalism documentaries and documentary outreach campaigns.\n\n"}
{"id": "2772701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2772701", "title": "Evacuation of Manchukuo", "text": "Evacuation of Manchukuo\n\nThe Evacuation of Manchukuo occurred during the Soviet Red Army's invasion of the Japanese puppet state of Manchukuo as part of the wider Manchurian Strategic Offensive Operation of August 1945.\n\nThe Soviets recovered territory which had been captured by Japan during the Russian-Japanese War of 1904-1905, and they dismantled the Manchu industrial infrastructure. This deprived Chiang Kai-shek's troops of a vital region of China, and gave Mao Zedong's VIII Army the opportunity to establish bases in North East China.\n\nOn August 10, 1945, troops of the 17th Japanese Front (in Korea) and the fifth Japanese Air Army were placed under the command of the Kwantung Army. At this point, the Japanese Kwantung Army numbered nearly 750,000 officers and men. It had 1,155 tanks and self-propelled guns, 1,800 warplanes, and 30 warships and gunboats. The entire Japanese force deployed in Manchuria, Inner Mongolia, and Korea numbered over one million officers and men.\n\nThe Soviet Army possessed 1.7 times more Infantry, 4.5 times more armor, and 2.8 times more aircraft than the Japanese. On the sea theater, Russian naval forces, unlike Japan, had no aircraft carriers and battleships. However, the chances of those vessels appearing in the Gulf of Korea or the Japan Sea were low, since Russian air domination was complete.\n\nOn August 9, 1945, the Soviet Army began the Sungari Offensive. The Amur Flotilla assisted troops of the second Far Eastern Front in routing the Japanese Kwantung Army. Having crossed the Amur and Ussuri rivers with the help of the Amur Flotilla, troops from two Soviet armies and an infantry corps captured two river bridgeheads.\n\nThe Japanese army used a variety of field artillery in an attempt to stop the Red Army, but had very limited ammunition available at the front line and failed to achieve significant results against the Russian infantry and armor erupting from the Soviet Far East and Mongolia into Manchuria and Mengchiang.\n\nAt the same time and with gunboat support a Soviet landing party entered Fuyuan and quickly took the city. The First Brigade of river gunboats from the Amur Flotilla, having swept shipping channels, entered the estuary of the river Sungari to support the troops as they landed with artillery fire. On August 10, Soviet forces captured the Sungari Fortified District and the Tuntsiang defense center. It was here that the crew of the gunboat \"Sun Yatsen\" distinguished itself.\n\nWhen Soviet forces took the Futsing Fortified District, the gunboat, acting jointly with a detachment of armoured launches, destroyed five permanent emplacements, a munitions depot and six mortar batteries with precise artillery. At the same time, the \"Sun Yatsen\" transferred landing parties across the river and supported their land operations with artillery fire.\n\nOn August 18, troops of the 15th Army captured the Sun'u Fortified District and Sun’u City and took 20,000 Japanese officers and soldiers prisoner. On August 19, Soviet ground troops and Amur Flotilla sailors captured Sansing|. On August 20, in Harbin, after combat action captured by Soviet paratroopers, the first and second Amur Flotilla Brigades accepted the capitulation of Japan's Sungari Flotilla only.\n\nIf remarked why Soviet air superiority was virtually total;In any case, if any Japanese Army planes attempt to take off from their airdromes,Russian fighters almost instantly shot them down.soon after the crushing raids of Soviet Air Force and Soviet Naval Air Service aviators on Japanese land bases and ports in Manchurian and Korean coasts.\n\nParatroopers formed from crews of warships and coastal units of the Pacific Fleet landed in Port Arthur (Liaoshun) and Dairen (Dalian). On August 25, 17 \"GST\" seaplanes which had flown five hours from Sukhodol airport near Vladivostok landed in the Port Arthur inlet with landing parties made up of Pacific navymen. On the same day, Japanese garrisons in Port Arthur and Dairen laid down their arms, and the Russian Pacific navy hoisted the Soviet naval ensign over Port Arthur fortress.\n\nIt was the Pacific Fleet's aviation group that opened hostilities by delivering heavy strikes against the Japanese-controlled Korean ports of Yuki, Rashin and Seishin, which served as the Japanese naval bases in North Korea. As a result of Soviet air strikes, Japan's sea communications were cut during the first days of the war.\n\nSoon after effective raids by Soviet aviators on Japanese bases Pacific Fleet Commander Admiral I. S. Yumashev decided, by agreement with Marshal A. M. Vasilevsky, to make landings in Yuki, Rashin and Seishin. On the eve of the operation naval bombers and attack planes continued to attack those ports. At the same time, the ports were attacked from the sea by torpedo boats led by division commanders Captain K. V. Kazachinsky, Captain S. P. Kostritsky and Lieutenant-Captain M. G. Malik. The sea and air attacks seriously weakened the defenses of the three cities, causing the Japanese to lose as many as twenty transports and other vessels.\n\nThe purpose of the Seishin landing operation, achieved during the first days of the war, was to capture the Japanese naval base in order to deprive the enemy of the ability to transport reinforcements, equipment, and ammunition from Japan, and also to prevent the evacuation of troops and equipment to Japan proper. Seishin was a fortified district with 4,000 officers and men, protected from the sea by coastal artillery. The Pacific Fleet's intention was to make a sudden landing to capture the port's moorage line and reconnoiter enemy forces. It was planned to subsequently land the main forces, occupy the city and hold it until the arrival of the 25th Soviet Army's troops advancing along the coastline.\n\nThe main landing force included the 355th Separate Marine Battalion under Major M. Barabolko (1st echelon), the 13th Marine Brigade under Major-General V. P. Trushin (2nd echelon) and the 335th Infantry Division (3rd echelon). The destroyer \"Voikov\", mine-layer \"Argun\", eight coast guards, seven minesweepers, twenty-four torpedo boats, twelve landing vessels and seven transports were involved. The air protection and landing support group had 188 bombers and 73 fighters — almost seven air regiments. Major-General Trushin was in command of the entire operation with Captain A. F Studenchikov leading the landing party.\n\nAt 0700 hours on August 13, after the Pacific Fleet air force had finished bombing enemy defense structures in Seishin, six torpedo boats led by Lieutenant-Captain Markovsky sailed to Seishin. These boats came with a scout detachment under Senior Lieutenant V. N. Leonov, and a company of submachine gunners under Senior Lieutenant I. M. Yarotsky from Inlet Novik (Russky Island). As the vanguard of this landing party advanced along the streets of Seishin, Japanese resistance became fiercer. The sailors advanced slowly while engaged with the enemy in hand-to-hand fighting. On the morning of August 14, fighters of the first echelon landed in Seishin, with the second echelon landing on August 15. There was no need to land the third echelon, since the six thousand sailors who had already entered Seishin were sufficient to capture the city. By the afternoon of August 16, the sailors, cooperating with the 393rd Infantry Division of the 25th Soviet Army, had captured the city.\n\nThe success of the landing was largely possible thanks to the effective support provided by warships and naval aviation. The destroyer \"Voikov\", the minelayer \"Argun\" and other warships opened fire against the enemy sixty-five times. The coast guard \"Metel\", under Lieutenant-Captain L. N. Baliakin provided support to the landing party by shooting down an enemy plane. \"Metel\"'s artillery also destroyed an armoured train carrying combat equipment, a Japanese coastal battery, and eight enemy concrete fortifications and emplacements.\n\nIn the Battle of Seishin, the Japanese lost more than 3,000 officers and men and a large quantity of armaments and equipment. Hundreds of Soviet officers and men were awarded orders and medals.\n\nAfter taking Seishin, Pacific Fleet sailors under the command of Studenchikov captured two more major strongholds: the ports of Odetsin and Genzan, where 6,238 Japanese officers and men were taken prisoner.\n\nOne particular case as the action sustained by Japanese against Soviets in Kotou Fortress, as part of Japanese Army Frontier Fortified Districts, located near Ussuri River in the Soviet-Manchurian border. If one of most strongest fortress in Manchukuo, among others eight Japanese fortresses in Russian-Manchu frontier.\n\nYour detachment as the 15th Border Guard Unit,same unit are special artillery unit also conformed by 1st Battery (with 5 howitzers and operators), 2nd Battery (with 6 heavy cannons and 2 field guns with personnel), 3rd Battalion (Type 88 75mm AA Guns with operators),13th Battery (Type 90 24 cm Railway Gun and personnel) and 14th Battery (Experimental 41 cm Howitzer and operators); all unit under lead in time by Captain Ohki.\n\nDuring July 1945 the 15th Border Guard Unit was created and commissioned for the garrison of the Kotou Fortress. When the Soviets irrupted over Manchukuo in Aug., 1945, stayed ones 1,400 units in place. Although the Soviets announced the surrender of Japan, Japanese garrisons did not believe this. They decided to continued to fight until last men.\n\nSuch gun fired and destroyed a railway bridge of the Trans-Siberian Railroad. Then, it fired with over 100 rounds during about one week until it was overrun by Red Army.in same action, the Type 90 24 cm Railway Gun was moved to other position for best firing against Russians. It was destroyed by Soviet artillery and abandoned heavily damaged by Japanese in area. The battle for Kotou Fortress ended on August 26; at same time Japanese forces in others frontier posts used Type 45 24 cm Howitzers against the Soviets which invaded Manchukuo in that period.\n\nOn August 9, Kwantung Army supreme commander, General Otozō Yamada, informed Puyi that the Soviet Union had violated the Soviet–Japanese Neutrality Pact and had invaded across the Manchukuo frontier. Although assured by General Yamada that the situation was under control, the same day Hsinking was attacked by the first air raid of the war, and Puyi witnessed explosions from bombs falling near the Wei Huang Gong palace.\n\nOn August 10, General Yamada advised Puyi that although the Army was \"giving heavy resistance\" the capital was being temporarily evacuated to Tonghua. Puyi was reluctant to abandon Hsinking, but was warned that if he did not leave, he would be the first killed by Red Army troops. Puyi donned the uniform of Commander in Chief of the Manchukuo Imperial Army as a gesture of solidarity with his troops.\n\nOn August 11, Puyi and other members of the imperial court departed Hsinking by train. Hiro Saga witnessed the local population preparing to receive the Red Army by making hammer and sickle flags. Because of the rapid Soviet advance, the entourage was unable to reach Tunghua, and changed its route to Talitzou, arriving at night. On the way, they witnessed Japanese military convoys fleeing south, in contrast to General Yamada's assurances that \"the Japanese army are gaining and destroyed many aircraft and enemy tanks\". Talitzou station was a scene of panic, with civilians desperately attempting to board the overcrowded last trains \"crying and bribing guards to let them enter and between guards there were fights.\"\n\nAt Talitzou Puyi and his court stayed in a two-storey administrative building belonging to a mining company. Puyi talked with his Japanese advisors about his future, and plans were made to take him to Korea, which the Allies had yet to invade, and from there to Japan. Puyi was uncertain where he would like to stay, but settled upon Kyoto.\n\nOn August 15, the group met around a radio receiver, listening to Japanese emperor Hirohito announcing the unconditional surrender of Japan. Pujie translated the speech for the group. Hiro mentioned how both brothers shook hands and cried.\n\nTwo days later, on August 18 Puyi formally renounced the Manchukuo throne and proclaimed the dissolution of the Manchukuo government. In a symbolic vote, all present approved, and Puyi stamped his seal to enact the law, ending the Manchukuo government after 13 years and five months. Coincidentally, it was at Talitzou 350 years before that Puyi's ancestor Nurhaci began his campaign to defeat the Ming Dynasty.\n\nThe region was no longer safe due to Communist guerrillas, and the group divided; one part returned to Hsinking with ex-prime minister Zhang Jinghui for a last radio contact with Chiang Kai-shek, in an unsuccessful attempt to give over control of Manchukuo to the Kuomintang to prevent Soviet occupation. The women in the entourage were sent separately by train towards Korea, as it was thought that they were not in immediate danger, and were not political targets of the Soviet or Chinese forces. As the train left Hiro saw Puyi cry.\n\nAt Talitzou airport a Tachikawa Ki-54, was prepared for Puyi's escape. Puyi selected only eight people, including his brother Pujie, Yuyan, Big Li and his personal medic. The small plane took the imperial entourage to Mukden where a larger plane,one Mitsubishi Ki-57 was to take them to Korea. However, while waiting at Mukden, Soviet troops of Transbaikal Front seized the airport, disarming the small Japanese garrison.\n\nPuyi and his companions spent the night at the airport under guard, and the next morning were taken aboard a Russian plane. Between Mukden and Khabarovsk the plane landed for refueling, where Puyi spoke to the Soviet commander, telling him that he \"did not like being in the same airplane with Japanese war criminals\" and the Japanese were left at the airfield while Puyi continued on. On reaching Khabarovsk, Puyi was first sent a hotel which was transformed into a detention centre. Later he was sent to \"Detention Center N°45\" in a school building in same city.\n\n"}
{"id": "11202496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11202496", "title": "Exposición Internacional del Centenario", "text": "Exposición Internacional del Centenario\n\nThe Exposición Internacional del Centenario (Centennial International Exposition) was an exhibition held between May and November 1910 in Buenos Aires, to commemorate the Centennial of the May Revolution in Argentina (the formation of the first local government on May 25, 1810). With a population of around 1.2 million, Buenos Aires was then the largest urban complex in Latin America, the eighth city in the world, and one of the richest. As the capital city and main port of the young Argentine Republic at the height of its economic expansion, the city was growing rapidly with the successive waves of European immigration.\n\nA total of 20 pavilions were built specially for the exhibition. A number of young Italian architects, including Virginio Colombo, Francisco Gianotti and Mario Palanti who designed the Italian pavilion, went on to establish successful careers in Buenos Aires working in a number of styles, including Art Nouveau. Their buildings were some of the most important of the 20th century in Buenos Aires and those that remain continue to play a significant role in defining the city's architectural landscape.\n\nEach pavilion feature a different theme, such as:\n\n\nIn addition there were pavilions for several of the Argentine provinces, including Córdoba, Mendoza, Salta, Jujuy and Tucumán, and for countries including Spain, Italy, Germany, England, Switzerland, Austro-Hungarian Empire and Paraguay. The Art Nouveau style played an important role in the designs of many of the buildings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16994015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16994015", "title": "Federation of European Carnival Cities", "text": "Federation of European Carnival Cities\n\nThe Federation of European Carnival Cities (FECC) was founded in 1980 and has been registered in the Court of Luxembourg. Member cities, organization and individual members are engaged in producing popular celebrations or carnivals which represent an authentic masquerade or parade of a people's cultural identity. The General membership meets twice each year generally at the end of May and in October. \n\nOn the occasion of the 700th anniversary of Amsterdam (The Nederlands), Carnival Princes from all over the world met each other in the Amsterdam RAI congress centre in November 1975. The Amsterdam Carnival Association, governed by Mr.Henk van der Kroon was called \"Amstelpieren & Brokkerijders.\" The big event brought an unprecedented number of Carnival Associations from different countries together. The guests of honour included Her Royal Highness Princess Margriet of the Netherlands as well as diplomats and dignitaries from afar including Brazil, Greece, Germany and Belgium. This unique event is widely recognized as the starting point for the lasting contacts and exchanges between associations and cities that has become the FECC.\n\nIn 1980, international carnival associations met in Patras (Greece), again under the initiative of the Amsterdam Carnival Association Ämstelpieren & Bfrokkerijders. It is generally accepted that the FECC (Foundation of European Carnival) came into existence during this meeting. At the 5th reunion in Kos-Patmos (Greece), which took place in 1985, a membership was introduced and it was decided to drawn up rules and bylaws. The first countries that became a member of the Foundation were Belgium, Netherlands, Luxembourg, England and Malta. Articles of association were formulated and the creation of FECC was registered in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Directly following the 1987 7th reunion in Malta, the Belgian members founded their own section FECC-Belgium with its own governing board. In 1988 FECC-Germany founded their own section as did FECC-Netherlands and FECC –Luxembourg. The first elected International President was Mr. Henk van der Kroon.\n\nThroughout the year the International President and other Board Members travel to member cities and interested Carnivals to learn, educate and often officiate at the ceremonies surrounding what is often the most important annual event for the community and even country. The FECC is a global organization holding its first annual convention outside the Mediterranean in the twin island Republic of Trinidad and Tobago in 1987. Many Carnivals, particularly those in Eastern Europe, have grown up under the mentorship of FECC engagement. Since its founding, the FECC has been the only unswerving organization consistently speaking for the interests and concerns of Carnival organizations. Representatives from Carnival organizations in over 50 countries are members and annual conventions generally have several Mayors seeking ways to bring more international recognition and culturally oriented tourists to their festivals.\n\nOnce a year, all FECC members: cities, associations and individual members are invited to an international assembly. This convention is organized by a member-city and takes place every year in a different country.\nThe convention lasts 1 week end takes place between end mid-May and mid- June. These conventions enjoy a lot of interest: every year, participants from more than 20 countries are present.\nDuring these annual conventions, the members get an international forum which enables them to promote their carnival and their town on the occasion of seminars and workshops.\n\nDirect personal contacts with the numerous participants can also increase the international publicity of a member's carnival and/of town.\nThe organizers of the convention moreover, use these gatherings to show the participants a few tourist attractions and places of interest of their town and the surrounding area. \n\nThe 11 October 1980 marks the founding of the FECC and it is observed by the FECC membership with a Dies Natalis celebration. This weekend gathering is hosted by a member city.\n\nAlso forthcoming \n\nThe FECC is open to membership in the following categories:\n\n\nThe structure is as follows:\n\nThe objectives are:\n\n"}
{"id": "49818095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49818095", "title": "Field sobriety testing", "text": "Field sobriety testing\n\nField Sobriety Tests (FSTs), also referred to as Standardized Field Sobriety Tests (SFSTs), are a battery of tests used by police officers to determine if a person suspected of impaired driving is intoxicated with alcohol or drugs. \"FSTs\" (and \"SFSTs\") are primarily used in the US, to meet \"probable cause for arrest\" requirements (or the equivalent), necessary to sustain an alcohol-impaired driving (DWI or DUI) conviction based on a chemical blood alcohol test. \n\nImpaired driving, referred to as Driving under the influence (DUI), or Driving while intoxicated (DWI), is the crime of driving a motor vehicle while impaired by alcohol or other drugs (including recreational drugs and those prescribed by physicians), to a level that renders the driver incapable of operating a motor vehicle safely. People who receive multiple DUI offenses are often people struggling with alcoholism or alcohol dependence.\nTraffic accidents are predominantly caused by driving under the influence; for people in Europe between the age of 15 and 29, DUI is one of the main causes of mortality. According to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration alcohol-related crashes cause approximately $37 billion in damages annually.DUI and alcohol-related crashes produce an estimated $45 billion in damages every year. \nWith alcohol, a drunk driver's level of intoxication is typically determined by a measurement of blood alcohol content or BAC; but this can also be expressed as a breath test measurement, often referred to as a BrAC. A BAC or BrAC measurement in excess of the specific threshold level, such as 0.08%, defines the criminal offense with no need to prove impairment. In some jurisdictions, there is an aggravated category of the offense at a higher BAC level, such as 0.12%, 0.15% or 0.20%. In many jurisdictions, police officers can conduct field tests of suspects to look for signs of intoxication. The US state of Colorado has a maximum blood content of THC for drivers who have consumed cannabis.\nIn most countries, driver's licence suspensions, fines and prison sentences for DUI offenders are used as a deterrent. Anyone who is convicted of driving while under the influence of alcohol or other drugs can be heavily fined and/or given a prison sentence. In some jurisdictions, impaired drivers who injure or kill another person while driving may face heavier penalties. In addition, many countries have prevention campaigns that use advertising to make people aware of the danger of driving while impaired and the potential fines and criminal charges, discourage impaired driving, and encourage drivers to take taxis or public transport home after using alcohol or drugs. In some jurisdictions, the bar that served an impaired driver may face civil liability. In some countries, non-profit advocacy organizations, a well-known example being Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD) run their own publicity campaigns against drunk driving.\n\nThe US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) began research in 1975 on how to test suspects for impaired driving. The NHTSA developed a series of tests that police officers could use when evaluating suspected impaired drivers. By 1981, officers in the United States began using the organization's battery of standardized sobriety tests to help make decisions about whether to arrest suspected impaired drivers. The tests were designed to indicate intoxication associated with a blood alcohol concentration (BAC) of 0.10%.\n\nAn early NHTSA report described a 6-test battery. A 1981 report became the basis of SFTs used in the United States, including the NHTSA's Standardized Field Sobriety Test (SFST) battery published Mar-1999.\n\nAfter some US states began lowering their BAC limits to 0.08%, a study was done to see if the battery could be used to detect BACs at or above 0.08% and above and below 0.04%. This was done to deal with the changes in the laws that led to lower legal BAC limits across the US.\n\nOne of the most controversial aspects of a DUI stop is the use of Field Sobriety Tests (FST). The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) has developed a model system for managing Standardized Field Sobriety Test (SFST) training. They have published several training manuals associated with FSTs. As a result of the NHTSA studies, the walk-and-turn test was determined to be 68% accurate, and the one-leg stand test is only 65% accurate when administered to people within the study parameters. The tests were not validated for people with medical conditions, injuries, 65 years or older, and 50 pounds or greater overweight. The officer will administer one or more field sobriety tests. FSTs are considered \"divided attention tests\" that test the suspect's ability to perform the type of mental and physical multitasking that is required to operate an automobile. Nevertheless, these tests can be problematic for people with non-obvious disabilities affecting proprioception, such as Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS).\n\nFSTs and SFSTs are promoted as, \"used to determine whether a subject is impaired\", but FST tests are widely regarded having, as their primary purpose, establishing tangible evidence of \"probable cause for arrest\" (\"reasonable grounds\" in Canada). A secondary purpose, is to provide supporting corroborative tangible evidence for use against the suspect for use at trial. Probable cause is necessary under US law (4th Amendment) to sustain an arrest and invocation of the implied consent law.\n\nSimilar considerations apply under the Canadian requirement to establish \"reasonable grounds\" for making an approved instrument demand, by establishing that there is reasonable and probable cause which lies at the point where \"point where credibly-based probability replaces suspicion\". It is likely that, if FSTs are being used, some equivalent to \"probable cause\" is necessary to sustain a conviction based on a demand for a chemical test.\n\nWhile the primary purpose of FSTs is to document probable cause or the equivalent, in some jurisdictions, FST performance can be introduced as corroborating evidence of impairment.\n\nAccording to the NHTSA, a suspect does not \"pass\" or \"fail\" a \"field sobriety test\", but rather the police determine whether \"clues\" are observed during the test. Nevertheless, some of the literature will still include comments that a suspect \"fails\" one or more of these tests.\n\nThe three validated tests by NHTSA are:\n\nAlternative tests, which have not been \"scientifically\" validated by the NHTSA, include:\n\nThere were three tests chosen to constitute the \"Standardized Field Sobriety Tests\", which are: (1) the Horizontal Gaze Nystagmus Test; (2) the Walk & Turn Test; and (3) the One-Leg Stand Test.\n\nAlthough most law enforcement agencies continue to use a variety of these FSTs, most use the three-test battery of validated field sobriety tests, referred to as the Standardized Field Sobriety Test (SFST). The NHTSA-approved battery of tests consists of the Horizontal Gaze Nystagmus Test (HGN Test), the Walk-and-Turn Test (WAT), and the One-Leg-Stand Test (OLS).\n\nIn some states, e.g., Ohio, only the standardized tests will be admitted into evidence, provided they were administered and objectively scored \"in substantial compliance\" with NHTSA standards (ORC 4511.19(D)(4)(b)).\n\nThe first test that is typically administered is the Horizontal Gaze Nystagmus or HGN test, which is administered by the police officer checking the test subject's eyes. During this test, the officer looks for involuntary jerking of the suspect's eyes as they gaze toward the side. The officer checks for three clues in each eye, which gives six clues for this test. The clues are: lack of smooth pursuit of the eyes, distinct and sustained nystagmus at the eyes' maximum deviation and nystagmus starting before the eyes reach 45 degrees.\n\n\n\nWhile the original research indicated that 6 out of 6 clues (or cues) meant that a person was more likely above 0.08% at the time of the test, subsequent research conducted by the NHTSA has indicated that a \"Hit\" occurred when the number of reported signs for a given BAC fell within the range: a > 0.06% at 4–6 clues; a 0.05 – 0.059% at 2–4 clues; a 0.03 – 0.049% at 0–4 clues and a < 0.03% at 0–2 cues or clues. The police may also then check for Vertical Gaze Nystagmus, which is used to test for high blood alcohol levels and/or the presence of certain drugs.\n\nWhile the purpose is obtaining probable cause support for an arrest and possibly screening, in some jurisdictions, the HGN test may be used as corroborating evidence at the trial stage. US jurisdictions differ on whether trial use of the HGN test requires that an expert establish a reliable foundation, as required under the \"Daubert\" standard\n\nThe second test that is usually administered is the Walk and Turn Test, or WAT Test. This test measures the suspect's ability to maintain their balance, walk in a straight line, and follow directions. To perform the test, the suspect will take nine heel-to-toe steps along a straight line during which time they must keep their arms to their side and count each step out loud. While the suspect performs this test, the officer is attempting to observe if the suspect fails to follow instructions; is having difficulty keeping their balance; stops walking in order to regain their balance; takes an incorrect number of steps; or fails to walk the line heel-to-toe.\nThe walk-and-turn test is composed of two phases: the Instruction Phase and Walking Phase. During the test, the individual is directed to take nine steps along a straight line. The individual is supposed to walk heel to toe, and while looking down at a real or imaginary line, count the steps out loud. The test subject's arms must remain at their side. Reaching the ending point, the individual must turn around using a series of small steps, and return to the starting point. The proper instruction, according to the NHTSA Guidelines, is as follows:\n\n\n\nThe other standardized test is the One Leg Stand (OLS). The OLS test requires the suspect to stand on one leg for 30 seconds and also measures balance, coordination, and similar to the WAT test, divides the suspect's attention. The officer is looking for any of the four possible clues: Sways while balancing, uses arms for balance, hopping and puts their foot down.\n\nThe One-Leg Stand test is composed of two stages: the Instruction Phase and Balancing Phase. The proper instruction, according to the NHTSA Guidelines, is as follows:\n\n\n\nThe term \"non-standardized\" references the NTSA SFSTs, sometimes referenced by the NHTSA as \"other sobriety tests\". The NHTSA indicates that the non-standardized tests are either \"not scientifically reliable\", with some assertions that SFSTs can be used to estimate 0.08% BAC. Nevertheless, these tests are common in North America, because the primary purpose of FSTs is to establish probable cause to sustain an arrest and invoke the implied consent law.\n\n\"Non-standardized tests\" include sequentially touching fingertips while counting forward and backward, touching the nose, alphabet recitals and Romberg's test (stationary balance, test for Romberg's sign).\n\nThe Preliminary Breath Test (PBT) or Preliminary Alcohol Screening test (PAS) is sometimes categorised as part of \"field sobriety testing\", although it is not part of the series of performance tests. The PBT (or PAS) uses a portable breath tester, but its primary use is for screening and establishing probable cause for arrest, to invoke the implied consent requirements or to establish \"reasonable grounds\" for making an approved instrument demand in Canada.\n\nDifferent requirements apply in many states to drivers under DUI probation, in which case participation in a preliminary breath test (PBT) may be a condition of probation, and for commercial drivers under \"drug screening\" requirements. Some US states, notably California, have statutes on the books penalizing PBT refusal for drivers under 21; however the Constitutionality of those statutes has not been tested. (As a practical matter, most criminal lawyers advise not engaging in discussion or \"justifying\" a refusal with the police.)\n\nIn Canada, PBT refusal may be considered a \"refusal\" offense under Canada Criminal Code § 254. The status of PBT refusal in Australia is unclear, although in Western Australia it appears to mandate submission to PBTs under the \"Road Traffic Act 1974\". (National states without probable cause or \"reasonable grounds\" requirements are of course likely to be less restrictive on PBT/PAS requirements.)\n\n<section begin=fst_criticisms /> \nFSTs are considered subjective. Additionally, their applicability to large segments of the population is limited.\n\nCritics of standardized field sobriety tests often question the statistical evidence behind them, and the ability of the officers to administer the tests and actually judge for impairments related to alcohol. According to Barone, one study involved completely sober individuals who were asked to perform the standardized field sobriety tests, and their performances were videotaped. \"After viewing the 21 videos of sober individuals taking the standardized field tests, the police officers believed that forty-six percent of the individuals had 'too much to drink'\". It should not be out of the question for the standardized field sobriety tests to be re-examined for reliability and validity. A standardized test that claims to have scientific support should be able to be repeated. Along with that, the standardized field sobriety tests do not have a specific standard for grading, and it is left up to the discretion of the officer to determine whether what he/she see observes is actually a cue sufficient to count against the test subject. The NHTSA's 1977 study had an error rate of 47 percent, and the 1981 study had an error rate of 32 percent, which is considered unusually high for a scientific study.\n\nOne of the main criticisms of field sobriety tests is that the judgment is left up to the discretion of the police officer. An officer may have some bias towards a suspect and judge the test more critically than necessary. Additionally, it is almost impossible to tell whether or not a police officer used proper procedures for administering the field sobriety test when a case is brought to court. The original research conducted by the NHTSA is often disputed because of the manner in which they were conducted and the conclusions that were reported.\n\nOne author alleges that FSD analysis reports do not meet scientific \"peer review\" standards: \"The reports for all three studies issued by NHTSA are lacking much of the material and analysis expected in a scientific paper, and none have been published in peer-reviewed journals\" (Rubenzer 2008; Rubenzer 2011).\n\n<includeonly>These</includeonly> tests can be problematic for people with non-obvious disabilities affecting proprioception, such as Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (EDS). Conditions affecting mobility, physical ailments and age adversely affect performance on FSTs.\n<section end=fst_criticisms /> \nOne of the main problems with the walk-and-turn test is that some of the signs of alcohol impairment may stem from other physical problems. Along with that, there are other signs of physical impairment that can stem from various causes, including fatigue, an injury or illness, and nervousness. Those who are physically inactive, elderly, or obese may have trouble completing the walk-and-turn test without flaw. The NTSA used to say that those who are 50 pounds or more overweight may have difficulty performing the test, and that the suspect must walk along a real line. \"Later NHTSA manuals removed the weight comment, and also inserted the phrase 'imaginary line' at the instruction phase, even though original research always used a visible line\". The fact that officers are no longer required to provide a line for the suspect to walk along may affect the outcome of the test, and often adds to the scrutiny received from critics.\n\n<section begin=fst_refusals /> \nIn all US jurisdictions, participation in a Field Sobriety Test is voluntary.. (Police are not obliged to advise the suspect that participation in a FST or other pre-arrest procedures is voluntary. In contrast, formal evidentiary tests given under implied consent requirements are considered mandatory.)\n\nA suspect requested to participate in a Field Sobriety Test is likely to be told that the purpose is to determine whether the suspect is impaired; however, FST tests are widely regarded as having, as their primary purpose, gaining tangible evidence for use against the suspect. The evidence is important in the establishment of probable cause for arrest. Since \"probable cause\" is necessary under US law (4th Amendment) to sustain an arrest and invocation of the implied consent law, it is important that the police document \"probable cause\".\n<section end=fst_criticisms />\n\"HGN first\"\n\nThe NHTSA recommends administering the HGN test as the first of the SFSTs, but does not state the reason. FSTs are voluntary, so consideration is given to encourage suspects to comply with requests to participate in the tests. The HST is characterized by the tester performing a visible activity, so the suspect is less likely to decline at that stage. The completion of one test increases the likelihood that the suspect will participate in follow-up FSTs. The suspect may also perceive the HGN (as administered) as having a scientific foundation.\n\nIn cases in which a PBT (or PST) is administered first, the HGN may be administered after completion of other SFSTs, as the purpose of administering the HGN first is obviated by the PBT/PST.\n\n\"FSTs\" are primarily used in national states that require the police establish probable cause for arrest (\"reasonable grounds\" in Canada) as a prerequisite for requiring a chemical blood alcohol test. FSTs are generally regarded as a curiosity elsewhere. \n\nTo determine impairment in countries such as Australia, a simple breath or urine test is often taken. If police suspect that a driver is under the influence of a substance such as alcohol, then the driver will undergo a breath test. If over the legal limit of 0.05g per 100 milliltres of blood, then a second breath test will be taken and used as evidence against the driver when charged with the offence. If a person is suspected to be under the influence of an illegal drug, they will be required to supply a urine sample. If the urine sample is positive, then the urine is sent for more testing to determine the exact drug taken (confirmation of being illegal or prescribed). A similar process to being over the legal BAC level is undertaken using the evidence to penalise the user.\n\nCommentary varies on taking SFSTs in Canada. Some sources, especially official ones, indicate that the SFSTs are mandatory, and required under § 254(2)(a) of the Criminal code, whereas other sources are silent on FST testing.. The assertion regarding mandatory compliance with SFSTs is based on \"failure to comply with a demand\", as an offence under § 254(5) of the Criminal Code, but it is unclear how refusal of SFSTs under § 254(2)(a) are treated (provided the suspect agrees to take a chemical test). N.B.: There are some reports that refusal to submit to an SFST can result in the same penalties as impaired driving.\n\nNevertheless, it is unclear whether there has ever been a prosecution under this interpretation of \"failure to comply with a demand\" as applied to SFSTs. Canada Criminal Code § 254(1) and (5) addresses this, but only with respect to chemical testing (breath, blood, etc.)\n\nUnited States law on DUI, primarily falls under state law, but are still subject to federal Constitutional requirements. Thus, in all jurisdictions, participation in FSTs is voluntary.\n\nIn the US, the legal procedure is \"police stop\" (Police stop requiring \"reasonable suspicion\" or another qualified reason for a police stop), \"probable cause\", and \"arrest\". FSTs are requested in the \"police stop\" phase, and are used to provide tangible evidence sufficient to meet the requirements for \"probable cause\" for an arrest. Evidential tests are performed in the \"arrest\" stage, although the terminology may vary. Regardless of the terminology, in order to sustain a conviction based on evidential tests, \"probable cause\" must be shown (or the suspect must volunteer to take the evidential test without implied consent requirements being invoked).\n\nPolice are not obliged to advise the suspect that participation in a FST or other pre-arrest procedures is voluntary. In contrast, formal evidentiary tests given under implied consent requirements are considered mandatory.\n\n"}
{"id": "1571831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1571831", "title": "Gatineau Hot Air Balloon Festival", "text": "Gatineau Hot Air Balloon Festival\n\nThe Gatineau Hot Air Balloon Festival is a yearly festival, held in Gatineau, Quebec, Canada, and organized by a not-for-profit organization, during which hot air balloons of every shape and colour are flown and where 300 shows and performances adding up to over 60 hours’ worth of programming are taking place. More than 200,000 visitors and 1,000 RVs usually participate.\nIt is held over four days in late-August and early September during the Labor Day Weekend.\n\nThe festival started in 1988 by Jean Boileau and attracted about 50 000 visitors and about 50 balloons. Through the following years the festival became much larger and was one of the biggest festivals in Canada. Attendance at one point reached over 225,000 people and had over 150 balloons. In 1998, the festival was also hosting the World Hot Air Airship Championship, which was disputed by 16 teams from Europe, China and the United States.\n\nOn July 14, 2001, Boileau who was the general manager since its beginning was involved in a horrific hot-air balloon accident just east of the Ottawa International Airport on Leitrim Road. The balloon, while trying to land in an open field, struck some hydro wires after a sudden wind gust. It suddenly engulfed in flames. Boileau sustained multiple burns while trying to rescue his 15-year-old daughter, Julie, who was trapped inside the balloon's basket. Unfortunately, the rescue effort failed as the girl died instantly while two other people also sustained burns. Boileau, despite the fact that a subsequent Transport Canada report which mention that the accident was caused by a pilot error and bad weather conditions, was later honored by then-governor general Adrienne Clarkson for bravery. In 2007 a commemorative plaque was unveiled at the La Baie Park for Boileau's daughter known as the festival's first volunteer and a tree was also planted on site in her honor in conjunction of the festival's 20th Anniversary which also honored the founder of the festival.\n\nAfter that event, he never piloted a hot-air balloon and left his general manager spot of the Festival afterwards - some speculations were that the new city of Gatineau administration of Yves Ducharme tried to force him out of the job by offering a spot for the new city as chief of communications. He was handled that position for a few months during rehabilitation, but the position was later removed and changed as the position of director of communications and the City did not appointed him due to health reasons caused by his accident. Some speculated that the Ducharme administration wanted to remove people who were associated with the former city of Gatineau's last mayor, Robert Labine and Ducharme's mayoral rival in the 2001 elections for the new city of Gatineau. However, a settlement between the city and Boileau was made in 2003. The departure of Boileau had also put the Festival's future in doubt as several of his associates also left the Festival's organization.\n\nBoileau is currently the communication director of the City of Gatineau since October 2013 \n\nSeveral well-known artists performed during the Festival over the course of its history since 1988. Among those included:\n\n\nhttp://www.lapresse.ca/le-droit/actualites/ville-de-gatineau/201308/27/01-4683692-jean-boileau-a-la-tete-des-communications-de-gatineau.php\n\n"}
{"id": "26935040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26935040", "title": "Hundred Years' Croatian–Ottoman War", "text": "Hundred Years' Croatian–Ottoman War\n\nThe Hundred Years' Croatian–Ottoman War (, \"Stogodišnji rat protiv Turaka\", \"Stogodišnji rat s Osmanlijama\") is the name for a sequence of conflicts, mostly of relatively low-intensity, (\"Small War\", Croatian: \"Mali rat\") between the Ottoman Empire and the medieval Kingdom of Croatia (ruled by the Jagiellon and Zápolya dynasties), and the later Habsburg Kingdom of Croatia.\n\nPope Leo X called Croatia the \"Antemurale Christianitatis\" (\"Bulwark of Christianity\") in 1519, given that Croatian soldiers made significant contributions to the struggle against the Turks. The advancement of the Ottoman Empire in Europe was stopped in 1593 on Croatian soil (Battle of Sisak). Nevertheless, the Muslim Ottoman Empire occupied parts of Croatia from the 16th to the end of the 17th century.\n\nThere are several different variations about the exact length of the war. According to one group of historians, the war began with the Battle of Krbava Field in 1493, and ended with the Battle of Sisak in 1593.\n\nAccording to the other group of historians, the war lasted from the second half of the 15th century and into the entire 16th century.\n\nA third group of historians mark the Peace of Zsitvatorok in 1606 as the end of the war. The war was won by the Ottoman's defeat upon their advance on the Kupa river border, with the remainder of Croatia's territory consisting of only 16,800 km².\n\nIn light of the human and territorial loss, and also from the modern Croatian Romanticist point of view, the 15th and 16th centuries were known as the \"Two centuries of Croatia in mourning\" () in the lyric-epic poem of Pavao Ritter Vitezović from 1703.\n\nThe battlefields were concentrated in the central-eastern areas of the Kingdom of Croatia, stretching from the eastern border of the pre-Ottoman times to the eastern border of the \"reliquiae reliquiarum olim inclyti regni Croatiae\" (\"remnants of the remnants of the once great kingdom of Croatia\").\n\nAfter the 1493 loss at Krbava, the Ottomans started the occupation of significant forts: Knin and Skradin fell in 1522. The Battle of Mohács happened in 1526. Jajce fell in 1528, Požega in 1536, Klis fell in 1537, Nadin and Vrana in 1538, moving the Croatian-Ottoman border to the line, roughly, Požega-Bihać-Velebit-Zrmanja-Cetina.\n\nBy the end of 1540, the Ottoman Empire occupied the Croatian possessions between Skradin and Karin, eliminating them as a buffer zone between the Ottoman and Venetian territory in Dalmatia. By 1573, the remainder of the Dalmatian hinterland, now largely controlled by the Venetian cities, was even further reduced by Ottoman advances.\n\nAlthough the Croatian Kingdom suffered major defeats in battles, it remained in existence, keeping its identity, religion and culture under the Habsburg Monarchy. In addition, some Croats in the territories lost to the Ottomans remained because the Porte embraced ethnic diversity, many of them eventually converting to Islam throughout the following centuries of Ottoman rule.\n\nThe Croatian combat against the Ottomans did not remain unnoticed in the political circles of European states. Copious amounts of information from the war was written in \"Monumenta Hungariae Historica, Codex diplomaticus partium Regno Hungariae adnexarum\" from 1903 (over 600 documents).\n\nDuring those 100 years (or 150 years, depending on criteria), the war on the territory of Kingdom of Croatia was overall a series of smaller armed conflicts (\"small war\") over the long duration of the war (in other words, armies were not always in constant battle.)\n\nThe Ottoman tactic consisted of persistent loot and scorching raids whose aim was to intimidate and demoralize the local civil inhabitants, to exhaust the economic opportunities and disable the normal economic life on the frontier areas. On the other side, Croatian and allied Christian forces implemented counterattacks, especially in the first phases of war, when they were still able to apply the counterattacking or the offensive tactics. Despite these destructive tactics, the armies did sometimes clash. Sometimes the local armies intercepted or pursued the raiders in their return from the raid. There was also more intense military actions, such as the Battle of Krbava Field or the Battle of Sisak.\n\nThe war-endangered areas can be classified in three zones:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38831791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38831791", "title": "Indore Fashion Week", "text": "Indore Fashion Week\n\nIndore Fashion Week (IFW) or Blenders Pride Indore Fashion Week (BPIFW) is an annual fashion event that takes place in Indore. It is considered a premier fashion event in central India. It is run by \"Storm Fashion Company\" (SFC) and the title sponsor is Blenders Pride.\n\nOrganised by Storm Fashion Company, Pernod Ricard India and Hotel Sayaji, the first Blenders Pride Indore Fashion Week saw participation from both established and emerging designers from across the country, including biggies like Jattinn Kochhar and Rocky S. Fifty models, including the show’s brand ambassadors Shawar Ali and Miss Asia Pacific World 2012 Himangini Singh Yadu, were the style ambassadors for the fashion week. The shows was choreographed and directed by Former Miss India Priyanka Shah and Renu Sukheja.\n\nBPIFW featured the collection of designers from all over India. There were three shows each day. Designers from Indore, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Delhi, Mumbai, and Cochin showcased their collections, mostly on bridal themes.\n\nThe Spring Summer edition of the Blenders Pride Indore Fashion Week 2013 took place from 6 to 10 March which saw a number of high-profile designers like Rocky S., Jatinn Kochhar, Riyaz Ganji, Poonam Vora, Sanjana Jon and many more from Dubai, New York City, Mumbai and Delhi participating. Many of the designers had show-stoppers to add that extra edge of glamour to their shows. Famous models like Kashmira Shah, Zulfi Syed, Simran Kaur as well as Indian film stars such as Mugdha Godse, Ziah Khan, Payal Rohatgi and Sangram Singh have participated in the BPIFW, 2013.\n\nThe fashion week saw sensational collections ranging from heavy Indian/Bridal wear to lustrous western designs. The week was aimed at involving the discerning and ever evolving Indore crowd with the latest and upcoming trends in the fashion industry. Around 40 models walked the ramp displaying western, ethnic and Indian Bridal Wear on the first day of mega event. Second day of Indore Fashion week witnessed some of finest dresses made from Madhya Pradesh’s handwork including Begham and Anarkali Collection. The last day were dedicated to summer collections of three fashion designers from Indore, New York City and Mumbai with their creative creations on ramp.\n\nIFW, 2014 was organized at Radisson Blu, Indore from 21–23 March 2014. A robust line-up of 9 designers participated in the event.\n\nThe BPIFW, 2013 was a success and received well response by media and audience but the less number of local designers and models made it an issue of criticism among local fashion fraternity of Indore. The large participation of international fashion designers, film actors and models from Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata disappointed local models and designers though the fashion week was concluded with a thumbs up from audience and media.\n\n"}
{"id": "40431834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40431834", "title": "Italian Championship Group 6", "text": "Italian Championship Group 6\n\nThe Campionato Italiano di Gruppo 6, (Italian Championship Group 6), was a domestic championship which took place in Italy for Group 6 and also featured cars that were eligible for World Sportscar Championship when races were shared.\n"}
{"id": "16076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16076", "title": "January 10", "text": "January 10\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26897651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26897651", "title": "Jerk (play)", "text": "Jerk (play)\n\nJerk is a one-person puppet play by the American writer Dennis Cooper, made in collaboration with director Gisèle Vienne and performer Jonathan Capdevielle, based on Cooper's 1993 novel of the same name. It is based on the story of serial killer Dean Corll and his teenage accomplices David Brooks and Elmer Wayne Henley. The play develops the conceit that Brooks has learnt puppetry in prison and, as part of his rehabilitation, acts out the murders in which he participated via the use of glove puppets and ventriloquism. The performance also involved sections in which the audience read about the murders in pamphlets, entitled \"Two Texts for a Puppet Play by David Brooks\" that were distributed.\n\nThe production premiered on 5 March 2008 in Brest, France. The play was also performed in an English-language version at the South London Gallery as part of the \"Paris Calling\" season of performing arts, opening on 1 July 2009. Its performance included music by Peter Rehberg.\n\nIn his analysis of \"Jerk\", theater scholar Jordan Schildcrout states, \"The production becomes a meta-puppet show when the actor playing David is giving voice to the puppets playing the killers, who in turn give voice to the puppets playing the corpses... In the final scenario, though, David abandons his puppets and does all the voices, including his own, as a ventriloquist, not moving his lips, as if he is also losing his humanity, becoming increasingly inanimate. In the story, David is ultimately alone in a house of corpses, and in performance he is alone on an empty stage, with only lifeless puppets sharing the space.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "15971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15971", "title": "July 12", "text": "July 12\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28153175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28153175", "title": "Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)", "text": "Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)\n\n\"Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)\" is a song by American singer Katy Perry from her third studio album, \"Teenage Dream\". The song was written and produced by Dr. Luke and Max Martin, who also co-wrote the song with Perry and Bonnie McKee. Perry stated that she was inspired to write the track after a night of wild partying and streaking. It was released as the album's fifth single on June 6, 2011, by Capitol Records, with a remix featuring American rapper Missy Elliott released to US radio stations and digital retailers on August 8, 2011; this version was included in \"\" edition. It is a dance-pop song with lyrics about drunken fun and debauchery. Some of the risque lyrics in the song are often censored in radio versions of the song.\n\nThe song had chart success worldwide, reaching number one in Slovakia and the Czech Republic, and has attained top-ten positions in Austria, Ireland, Italy, and Poland. By topping the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100, Perry became the first female solo artist to have five number-one singles on the Hot 100 from a single album; it also was Perry's sixth number-one single on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart, and her fifth consecutive number one single. The single had sold 3.7 million digital copies in the US and was the tenth most played single on US radio during 2011.\n\nThe song's accompanying music video was directed by Marc Klasfeld. The clip features Perry, as her teenage alter-ego Kathy Beth Terry, at a house party filled with music and dancing. While at the party, Terry is made over by her friend and draws attention to herself as the life of the party. The video features appearances by notable music artists and actors, which includes Rebecca Black, Corey Feldman, Debbie Gibson, Kenny G, Hanson, and Kevin McHale and Darren Criss of \"Glee\". According to the director, the inspiration behind the video was \"Sixteen Candles\", works by American filmmaker John Hughes, and other 1980s high school films. The music video won Favorite Music Video award at the 38th People's Choice Awards.\n\nPerry has revealed that she was inspired to write the track after running naked through a park with her friends. According to Music Rooms, Perry claims that after a wild night of partying and streaking, she wrote the song about her antics and what she remembered the next day. Perry revealed: \"There's nothing better than an impromptu dance party with my friends. My track 'Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)' is a song about debauchery because I had one of those nights in Santa Barbara. We went out to this place called Wildcat and got crazy,\" Perry admitted: \"We had a couple of beers and danced until we died, then brought the party back to the hotel room.\" She added: \"Most of that song is actual truth, apart from the ménage à trois... unfortunately! But, yes, streaking in the park, that's what we did, so we had to write a song about it the next day!\" One of the friends in this trip was co-writer Bonnie McKee, who said the song encapsulated \"Katy and my wild drinking days\" from their younger days. McKee stated \"TGIF is pretty much a word for word description of our trip to Santa Barbara, so I love that one. It's really catchy and fun and makes me nostalgic.\" The official artwork for \"Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)\" using scenes from the music video, shows Perry both before and after a makeover. She revealed the cover artwork for \"Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.) Remixes!\" on her Facebook page. The photo features Perry in nerdy gear, including mouth guard and glasses, and was taken when she hosted the Teen Choice Awards in summer 2010. The image is surrounded by 1980s-style neon colors and swirly graphics. A remixed version of \"Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)\", featuring Missy Elliott, was released on August 8, 2011 to radio and as a digital download. It was released as the album's fifth single on June 6, 2011 through Capitol Records.\n\n\"Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)\" is a dance-pop song, which runs for three minutes and 50 seconds. It is set in common time and has a moderate tempo of 126 beats per minute. It is written in the key of Eb minor, and Perry's vocals span one octave, from C♯ to F♯. It follows the chord progression B–G♯m–D♯m–C♯.\n\nAllMusic picked it among the top tracks on the album, and said that Perry \"salutes fellow attention-whore Kesha on 'Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)'\". \"Rolling Stone\" said that \"Perry likes her songs chatty; in the kegger romp \"Last Friday Night,\" she chirps, \"Think I need a ginger ale/That was such an epic fail\". \"Slant Magazine\" said that \"'Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)' is a lifeless roller-rink jam with a 'T! G! I! F!' shout-along that will no doubt provide the soundtrack to any number of trashy sorority parties this semester\". \"Spin Magazine\" said that \"Last Friday Night recounts an evening of nonstop naughtiness – think streaking, skinny-dipping, and ménage à trois-ing.\"\n\nJason Richards from \"Now\" wrote, \"The singer recently said that the catchy 'Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)' is her version of 'I Gotta Feeling'. With lyrics about photos ending up online after a debauched evening, it's also reminiscent of Lady Gaga singing about drunkenly losing her keys and phone on 'Just Dance.' Derivative, sure, but the song strikes a perfect equilibrium between Perry's sex appeal and goofy, self-effacing charm\". Marc Hawthorne from \"The A.V. Club\" said that \"assuming that everything here is based on real life also means we have to accept that she's had a ménage à trois on the indie-rock-meets-American Idol cut Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)\".\n\nChris Richards from \"The Washington Post\" said that \"Over strummy guitars and zigzagging keyboards, Perry recounts an evening of debauchery with no repercussions, her innocent transgressions (streaking, skinny-dipping) mentioned in the same breath as more serious trouble (mysterious bruises, a blackout), but... [when] it's time for Perry to reflect on her 3 am follies, she stiffly sings, \"That was such an epic fail.\" It sounds like a clueless parent's attempt to speak teenager.\" \"Billboard\" included the song in their \"Five Potential Pop Hits for 2011\" list. Tom Hawthorne from \"Future Music Charts\" said that it sounds like a pop song as it should be without any auto-tune voice changes and hard DJ beats, which is the song's strength and weakness at the same time\".\n\nIn the form of an open letter to Perry, comedian Rob Delaney takes her to task for glamorizing binge drinking, unsafe sex, and possibly date rape in the song. He comments on it lyric-by-lyric, sometimes humorously (in response to the line \"Yeah we maxed our credit cards\", Delaney writes \"Suze Orman would be so angry if I told her this.\") but more often seriously. To the line \"Don't know what to tell my boss\", he says:\n\n\"Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)\" made Perry the first and only female artist to have five #1 singles from one album in \"Billboard\" Hot 100, tying Michael Jackson's \"Bad\", with his last #1 single being \"Dirty Diana\", on July 2, 1988. Perry's song debuted at number 67 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. It also charted at number 49 on the Canadian Hot 100 chart that same week. Following its single release, the song re-entered the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 on June 18, 2011 at number 63 and at number 31 on the \"Billboard\" Pop Songs. The following week, the song jumped 63-31 with the Hot 100's \"Greatest Gainer\" award. In its fourth week on the chart, \"Friday\" leaped to number four, spurred by a number one ranking on Hot Digital Songs. This made \"Teenage Dream\" the first album to have five songs hit number one on the chart. The song reached number three on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart, on July 30. The following week, \"Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)\", reached a new position of number two, where it remained for three additional weeks, behind \"Party Rock Anthem\" by LMFAO feat. Lauren Bennett and GoonRock.\n\nThe song finally reached the number-one position on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 on August 17, 2011, and spent two straight weeks there. The song became Perry's sixth number-one single on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart, and her fifth consecutive number-one single. Perry became the first woman in the 53-year history of \"Billboard\" to take five singles from the same album to number one on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, equaling the record established by Michael Jackson 23 years earlier. The song has also peaked at number-one on the Canadian Hot 100, and has become her fourth number-one single from the album. As of January 2015, the single had sold 3.7 million copies in the US. According to Nielsen Broadcast Data Systems, \"Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F)\" was the tenth most played single on US radio during 2011 with 450,000 plays. \"Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)\" peaked at number two on the Irish Singles Chart. On the New Zealand Singles Chart it peaked at number four, marking Perry's first top spot miss, though it still managed to receive platinum by the Recording Industry Association of New Zealand, making it her fifth platinum selling single from her album. The song debuted at number 40 in Australia, and later peaked at number five in the country and going platinum. In the UK, the song peaked at No. 9 in the UK Singles Chart. September 17, 2011 marked Perry' 69th consecutive week in the Top 10 with the single.\n\nIn an interview with MTV, director Marc Klasfeld said that the video's storyline was inspired by \"Sixteen Candles\" and other works of John Hughes, as well as \"all those great '80s high school movies.\" Including a long series of outtakes during the ending credits was influenced by a similar idea in \"The Cannonball Run\". The costume for Perry's character, Kathy Beth Terry, was inspired by the character Betty Suarez, played by America Ferrera on the series \"Ugly Betty\". The music video for \"Last Friday Night (T.G.I.F.)\" was filmed around May 3–6, 2011 at the home of John Schneider. It was directed by Marc Klasfeld, and co-directed by Danny Lockwood. Perry tweeted, \"I told someone about my new music video I just filmed & they responded with 'wow, that's gonna break the internet.'... Should I knock on wood?\"\n\nBefore the video premiered, Perry created Facebook and Twitter profiles for a \"brace-faced nerd-turned-hottie\" thirteen-year-old she plays named Kathy Beth Terry. Starting from June 8, a series of short video clips was uploaded on the Facebook profile, YouTube and Perry's official web version premiered later on the same day on Funny or Die. On July 11, after crossing the half-million \"likes\" mark, Perry released an interview in character as Terry on DigitalSpy.\nPerry, in character as Kathy Beth Terry made various references to Rebecca Black and other guests on the video on her Twitter and Facebook. She also gave interviews to the Digitalspy, Australian Cosmopolitan, and BOP Tiger Beat.\n\nThe video went on to win Favorite Music Video award at the 38th People's Choice Awards.\n\nAs of October 2018, the video has over 1.1 billion views on YouTube.\n\nKathy Beth Terry (Perry), a nerdy teenager with braces, headgear, and oversized glasses, has just awakened the morning after a house party, surrounded by passed-out partygoers. A male guest, Aaron Christopherson (\"Glee\" star Darren Criss) opens the door to her bedroom and congratulates her on having the \"best party ever.\" Puzzled as to what happened, she goes online, only to find pictures of herself in various compromising positions, including one picture of her licking the stomach of the boy in bed next to her. The video then goes into a flashback of the events that occurred the night before. While doing a Sudoku puzzle, Kathy hears loud music from the house next door, and goes over to complain. She is greeted by Rebecca Black (who appears as a homage to Black's viral video \"Friday\"), who invites her in. A nerdy Everett McDonald (\"Glee\" star Kevin McHale) ogles Terry from afar and fantasizes about being with her.\n\nHowever, Kathy is more interested in Steve Johnson aka \"The Jock\" (model Richie Nuzzolese), an attractive football player, who turns her down because of her appearance. To cheer her up, Black gives Kathy a makeover, ripping off her headgear with pliers, waxing her upper lip, dressing her in tight-fitting neon clothes, and teasing her hair out. Steve becomes enamored with her, and everyone starts dancing. Kathy and Rebecca are also seen playing the song \"Hot Stuff\" on \"Just Dance 2\" by Ubisoft (a game that features Perry as DLC). Musician Kenny G, despite not having played the saxophone on the song's actual recording, plays the saxophone solo on the roof while Hanson act as the house band. The entire party ends up moving to Kathy's house, where she throws up after drinking too much. Everett punches Steve for trying to fondle Kathy's buttocks (visualized by him as a medieval sword fight with Kathy as a damsel in distress).\n\nAt the end of the night, Kathy finally passes out next to Steve. The video shifts back to the next morning, where she looks at the photos with regret, but is also ecstatic to have a naked Steve passed out in her bed. The film ends with former teen idols Corey Feldman and Debbie Gibson as Kathy's parents, Kirk and Tiffany Terry, confronting Kathy about the state of the house but forgiving her after recalling their own wild youth, Feldman making several references to \"The Lost Boys\", in which he starred. The video's ending credits feature various deleted lines, bloopers, and extra scenes from the party, as well as Everett bringing Kathy breakfast in bed. After the credits end, it repeats the shot where Kathy gets tape ripped off her upper lip; her scream is heard this time.\n\nOn September 5, 2010, Perry performed the song live for the first time along with \"Teenage Dream\", \"Firework\" and \"Not Like The Movies\" in the show's launch of the \"Teenage Dream\" in Berlin.\nThough the song has never been performed live as part of a televised performance, the song is featured on the set lists of the \"Teenage Dream Tour\", \"California Dreams Tour\", \"Prismatic World Tour\" and \"\". The first televised performance was during her presentation at Rock In Rio, which was broadcast live by the Multishow. During this song, photos of fans are displayed on the screens.\n\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from \"Teenage Dream\" album liner notes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33780265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33780265", "title": "Maclean's \"Too Asian\" controversy", "text": "Maclean's \"Too Asian\" controversy\n\n\"Maclean's\" \"Too Asian\" controversy is a controversy around an article published by \"Maclean's\" in 2010. Initially titled \"Too Asian: Some frosh don't want to study at an Asian university\", later re-titled with an added question mark \"Too Asian? [...]\", and then finally \"The enrollment controversy: Worries that efforts in the U.S. to limit enrollment of Asian students in top universities may migrate to Canada,\" this article was written by Nicholas Kohler and Stephanie Findlay, and published in the 2010 edition of the \"Maclean's Guide to Canadian Universities\". The article was publicly criticized and condemned by various community organizations, universities and levels of government as an example of anti-Asian racism and xenophobia. To date, \"Maclean's\" magazine and its parent company, Rogers Communications, have declined to offer an apology for the article.\n\nThe article begins by introducing Alexandra and Rachel, two recently graduated white students from Havergal College, an elite all-girl's private school located in Toronto. Kohler and Findlay explain that these students made a choice that is common among North America's white youth: opting not to attend a university with the reputation of being \"too Asian\". The term, Kohler and Findlay continue to explain, indicates a university that is intellectually rigorous with an unbalanced campus social climate, brought upon by the presence of academically focused Asian students. The article concludes with a note that Alexandra left Western University, a school considered to be attended by \"white students\" in the article, for University of Toronto, which is considered to be \"too Asian\".\n\nMany critics argued that the article's subsequent attempts to provide a debate about the role of race on Canadian university campuses, and the \"over-representation\" of Asian students on elite university campuses, was highly offensive: it framed \"Asian\" students as single-minded and socially inept hard-workers, spurred by their tradition and culture, while \"white\" students are more concerned with the social aspect of universities, such as drinking and partying. Many critiques also took issue with the article's conflation of \"Asian\" with Chinese, quoting a number of Chinese students in their article, while never addressing how \"Asian\" itself is a category that subsumes many different ethnic groups. Moreover, no distinction between international students and Canadian-born \"Asians\" was made (an important distinction that was completely disregarded in the survey). Critics were also shocked by the article's reference to debates in American universities regarding the initiation of race-based quotas to \"balance\" their campuses because of the over-representation of Asian students.\n\nResponse to the article was immediate, widespread and disfavourable. Critics ranging from journalist bloggers to academics decried the article for being racist, stereotypical and reductive. The article was criticized for recalling stereotypes of Asians as unbalanced foreigners, with the aim of overthrowing white Canadians from power.\n\nFurther criticism followed from the fact that the article depicted Asians as a homogeneous group, without attention to the fact that people from various groups can be classified as \"Asian\". Another commentator argued that the article inaccurately perpetuated the myth that universities functioned as meritocracies, without taking into account that minorities have to overcome social hurdles, such as racial discrimination and prejudice. It was also argued that the article justified the idea that whites are entitled to attend university, because it never explicitly condemns, and therefore indirectly condones, Alexandra and Rachel's belief that certain universities were \"too Asian\".\n\nCoupled with the critiques of the piece was activism and action from grassroots, academic, governmental, university, and youth sectors. The activism protesting the piece manifested in a number of different forms, ranging from humorous (but critical) videos, to community web pages and gatherings. A coalition of over one hundred organizations composed and submitted an open letter calling for an end to anti-Asian racism for those responsible for the piece. Universities across the nation held a series of public educational events, organized by both faculty and students, to debate the article and its implications. The University of Victoria Students' Society went so far as to ban sales of the magazine from their student building.\n\nThe cities of Victoria, Vancouver, Toronto, Markham, and Richmond Hill successively passed motions condemning the article and calling for those responsible for the article to issue a public apology. Olivia Chow, a Member of Parliament and member of the New Democratic Party, put forth a motion in the House of Commons of Canada calling for the censure of \"Maclean's\", arguing that the article \"is offensive, divisive and suggests that Canadian students of Asian heritage may be limiting opportunities for non-Asian students at certain universities\". Senator Vivienne Poy, former Chancellor Emerita of the University of Toronto, argued that the offensive content of the piece makes the magazine unsuitable as a beneficiary of the Canadian government's periodical fund which identifies it as \"material that is denigrating to an identifiable group\". The periodical fund annually subsidizes the magazine's publication with $1.8 million of federal funding.\n\nNo apology has been offered by either \"Maclean's\" or Rogers Communications. Negotiations between Maclean's and Rogers Communications, and the Chinese Canadian National Council and the Chinese Canadian National Council Toronto Chapter were held, but those failed to yield an apology, as the magazine refused to acknowledge that the article was offensive. The magazine instead initially revised the piece's content. It then issued a clarification about the piece's content, changed the article's title twice, and issued an additional statement with the online version of the piece, stating that some of the content could be interpreted as offensive. \"Maclean's\" stated that they do not advocate race as a criterion in university admissions, and commended Asians in Canada for succeeding in universities on the basis of merit. Journalists Margaret Wente and Barbara Kay respectively sided with the magazine, stating that it initiated an important conversation that Canadians were afraid to have, and that the magazine, rather than those aggrieved, deserved an apology.\n\nIn response, Professor Henry Yu of the University of British Columbia labelled \"Maclean's\" actions as a non-apology. John Miller, a former Professor of Journalism at Ryerson University, argued that the article was an example of poor journalism and \"Maclean's\" reply indicated that \"the publication just doesn't seem to get it.\" Journalist Jeet Heer articulated that, in dealing with the ordeal in the way that they did, both \"Maclean's\" and its supporters reflected Canada's inability to constructively talk about the reality of racism. Heer further noted that those who argued in favor of the article evaded acknowledging that it was evocative of racist stereotypes.\n\nKenneth Whyte, then publisher of \"Maclean's\", has since been promoted as the Head of Rogers' Publications. Nicholas Kohler, one of the authors of the article, is no longer on staff with the magazine. Stephanie Findlay, the second author and then an intern with the publication, moved on to an internship with the \"Toronto Star\". The decision to hire Findlay by the \"Star\" was criticized by some, prompting doubt as to whether or not the \"Star\" was sincere in issuing an apology for a similar themed and timed article. Findlay is no longer with the \"Star\". Dr. Susan R. Grosbeck, the Principal of Havergal College, publicly stated that \"Maclean's\" never confirmed that Alexandra and Rachel actually attended the school. Furthermore, a number of people interviewed by the authors expressed that they had either been misquoted, or that the authors were dishonest in their explanation of their opinions.\n\nTo commemorate the year of activism that resulted from the article's publication, an event organized by the Solidarity Committee Against Anti-Asian Racism was held at the University of Toronto on November 17, 2011.\n"}
{"id": "56425783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56425783", "title": "Mercy (Madame Monsieur song)", "text": "Mercy (Madame Monsieur song)\n\n\"Mercy\" is a song written and performed by French duo Madame Monsieur. The song was released as a digital download on 20 January 2018 through Low Wood and Play Two as the lead single from their second studio album \"Vu d'ici\" (2018). It represented France in the Eurovision Song Contest 2018 in Lisbon, Portugal.\n\n\"Mercy\" was written and produced by Émilie Satt and Jean-Karl Lucas. The song is about a girl named Mercy who was born to Nigerian refugees on a boat on the Mediterranean Sea in the midst of the European migrant crisis. It is a play with words using the French word \"merci\" meaning \"thanks\" but also \"mercy\" like the English word and first name.\n\nOn 1 January 2018, Madame Monsieur were confirmed as one of the 18 participants in \"Destination Eurovision\" with the song \"Mercy\". They advanced from the second semi-final on 20 January, after placing first with the international jury and tying for first with the Francophone jury. They went on to compete in the final on 27 January, placing third with the international juries but winning a landslide share of the vote from the French public, amassing enough points to win the competition.\n\nAs France is a member of the \"Big Five\", the song automatically advanced to the final, held on 12 May 2018 in Lisbon, Portugal.\n\nAt the Eurovision Grand Final, they won the Press Marcel Bezençon Award, by being voted the best entry by the accredited media and press at the event. They finished 13th overall out of 43 participating countries.\n\nThe single started at number 8 on top singles sales in France. The next week, it peaked at number 3. After the Grand Final, the song rose to number 2.\n"}
{"id": "52456621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52456621", "title": "Metallibure", "text": "Metallibure\n\nMetallibure () (brand names Aimax, Suisynchron, Turisynchron; former developmental code names ICI-33828, AY-61122, NSC-69536), also known as methallibure (, ) or methallibur (German), is a medication which was introduced in 1973 and has been used in veterinary medicine to synchronize estrus. It was withdrawn in the United States and Europe due to teratogenicity and has been replaced with altrenogest (Regumate, Matrix), a progestin.\n\nThe precise mechanism of action of metallibure is unknown. It has been described as a \"nonsteroidal antigonadotropin\" and it appears to act directly on the pituitary gland and/or hypothalamus to suppress gonadotropin secretion. However, metallibure has also been reported to be an antiprogestogen and to act specifically via inhibition of the biosynthesis or secretion of progesterone.\n\nMetallibure has similar endocrinological effects in women. It is associated with several unpleasant side effects including appetite loss, nausea, occasional vomiting, lethargy, and drowsiness. Animal toxicity studies revealed that the medication induced the development of cataracts, and this resulted in the termination of its clinical development.\n\n"}
{"id": "34046284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34046284", "title": "National Tom Sawyer Days", "text": "National Tom Sawyer Days\n\nNational Tom Sawyer Days is a yearly event on 4 July, organized by the Hannibal JayCees in Hannibal, Missouri in the United States. In the town, National Tom Sawyer Days and the fourth of July are celebrated at the same time. Hannibal is the hometown of the famous author Mark Twain, the writer of \"The Adventures of Tom Sawyer\". Many local Tom fans or some other fans from all over the world are attracted by the big parade float, flea market, carnival for children. Fans can enter a no speed-limited car competition and a Mud Volleyball Tournament.\n\nMost of the competitions are inspired from the novels written by Mark Twain, for instance, the inspiration “Frog long jump” is from \"The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County\" which is Mark Twain’s first famous book. This activity and contest “Tom and Becky ” are one of the earliest activities which were celebrated in National Tom Sawyer Days. Besides, a couple of goodwill ambassadors from Junior school students in Grade 7 will be selected to introduce the local culture in Hannibal.\n\n“Painting fence contest” is the same as “Tom and Becky”, which is based on \"The Adventures of Tom Sawyer\". Aunt Polly punishes Tom to paint the fence, but little Tom asked some friends to help him paint the fence. Children from place to place aged from ten to thirteen will dress up as Tom, because the costume is one of the 3 standards for evaluation. The other two dominating factors are the speed and the quality of painting the fence. Once the child wins the preliminary contest, he or she qualifies for the final competition.\n"}
{"id": "57445761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57445761", "title": "Out of Ireland", "text": "Out of Ireland\n\nOut of Ireland is a 1999 novel by Christopher Koch which tells the story of Irish 'gentleman-convict' Robert Devereux and his transportation to Van Diemen's Land (Tasmania). Koch observed that \"Out of Ireland\" was an exploration of his \"interest in the idea that the past resonates off the future.\" The novel is considered uniquely Tasmanian because of the way it deals with convict ancestry and emphasies the island's geographic isolation.\n\nThe novel starts with Devereux, an Irish revolutionary, aboard a convict prison hulk in Bermuda. It then follows his transportation to Van Diemen's Land, his release and subsequent adventures on the island. \n\n\"Out of Ireland\" was well received, winning the Colin Roderick Award in 1999 and the Victorian Premier's Prize for Fiction in 2000.\n"}
{"id": "48679533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48679533", "title": "Rath Yatra Nabha", "text": "Rath Yatra Nabha\n\nRatha Yatra (Oriya: ରଥଯାତ୍ରା or Ratha Jatra or Chariot Festival) is a Hindu festival associated with the god Jagannath held at Mandir Thakur Shri Saty Narayan Ji in the Nabha City, state of Punjab, India. This annual festival is celebrated in the month of August or September.\nThe festival commemorates Jagannath's annual visit to Nabha city.\n\nAs part of Ratha Yatra, the deities of Jagannath, Balabhadra and Subhadra are taken out in a procession to Devi Chowk. Then the deities or Ratha Yatra starts and the Parikrama of the Nabha city. The return journey of Puri Jagannath Ratha Jatra is known as Bahuda Jatra.\nThree richly decorated chariots, resembling temple structures, are pulled through the streets of Puri called Badadanda. This commemorates the annual journey of Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra, and their sister Subhadra to their aunt's temple, the Gundicha Temple which is situated at a distance of 2 km from their temple. This is the only day when devotees who are not allowed in the temple premises, such as non-Hindus and foreigners, can get their glimpse of the deities. During the festival, devotees from all over the world go to Puri with an earnest desire to help pull the Lords' chariots with the help of other priests pulling the chariots with ropes. They consider this a pious deed and risk their lives in the huge crowd. The huge processions accompanying the chariots play devotional songs with drums, tambourines, trumpets etc. Children line the streets through which the chariot will pass and add to the mass chorus. The Ratha carts themselves are some approximately high and are pulled by the thousands of pilgrims who turn up for the event; the chariots are built anew each year only from a particular type of tree. Millions of devotees congregate at Puri for this annual event from all over the country and abroad. It is also broadcast live on many Indian, foreign television channels as well as many of the websites telecast jagannath ratha yatra live.\n\nRatha Jatra, the Festival of Chariot: Chariots of Shri Jagannath is celebrated every year at Nabha, the temple town in Punjab. The presiding deities of the Lord Jagannath, Lord Balabhadra and Goddess Subhadra, with the celestial wheel (Sudarshana Chakra) are taken out from the temple precincts in an elaborate ritual procession to their chariot. The huge, colourfully decorated chariot is drawn by multitude of devotees on the \"Devi Chowk\", the grand avenue and the main place of the Nabha City.\nAfter the ratha yatra deities return to their abode.\n\nThe chariot of Balarama, Subhadra and Jagannatha is newly constructed every year with wood of specified trees like phassi, dhausa, etc. They are customarily brought from the ex-princely state of Dasapalla by a specialist team of carpenters who have hereditary rights and privileges for the same. The logs are traditionally set afloat as rafts in the river Mahanadi. These are collected near Puri and then transported by road.\n\nThe chariot is decorated as per the unique scheme prescribed and followed for centuries stand on the Santoshi Mata Mandir, Duladdi Gate the Grand Avenue. Covered with bright canopies made of stripes of red cloth and combined with those of black, yellow and blue colors, the huge chariot is lined across the wide avenue in front of the majestic temple close to its eastern entrance.\n\nLord Jagannatha's chariot is called Nandighosa. It is decked with a cover made of red and yellow cloth. Lord Jagannatha is identified with Krushna, who is also known as Pitambara, the one attired in golden yellow robes and hence the distinguishing yellow stripes on the canopy of this chariot.\n\nThe chariot of Lord Balarama, called the Taladhwaja, is the one with the Palm Tree on its flag.\n\nThe chariot of Subhadra, known as Dwarpadalana, literally \"trampler of pride,” This chariot is decked with a covering of red and black cloth – black being traditionally associated with Shakti and the Mother Goddess.\n\nAround the chariot are nine Parsva devatas, painted wooden images representing different deities on the chariots' sides. Chariots is attached to four horses. These are of different colours – dark ones for Balarama, white ones for Jagannatha, and red ones for Subhadra. Each chariot has a charioteer called Sarathi.\nDescriptions of the Chariots\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56923918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56923918", "title": "Russian Proriv! (Transnistrian newspaper)", "text": "Russian Proriv! (Transnistrian newspaper)\n\nRussian Proriv! (Cyrillic: Русский Прорыв, Russian for 'Russian Breakthrough') is a Russian-language newspaper from Tiraspol, the capital of Pridnestrovie (also known as Transnistria). \n\nThe paper was printed four times a month and consisted of seven folded D3-sized sheets. It had a circulation of 10,000 copies per week in 2007.\n\nThe first editor in chief was Roman Konoplev (Cyrillic: Роман Коноплев)(2007-2008)..\n\n"}
{"id": "386696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=386696", "title": "SL-1", "text": "SL-1\n\nThe SL-1, or Stationary Low-Power Reactor Number One, was a United States Army experimental nuclear power reactor in the United States which underwent a steam explosion and meltdown on January 3, 1961, killing its three operators. The direct cause was the improper withdrawal of the central control rod, responsible for absorbing neutrons in the reactor core. The event is the only reactor accident in the U.S. which resulted in immediate fatalities. The accident released about of iodine-131, which was not considered significant due to its location in the remote high desert of eastern Idaho. About of fission products were released into the atmosphere.\n\nThe facility, located at the National Reactor Testing Station (NRTS) approximately west of Idaho Falls, Idaho, was part of the Army Nuclear Power Program and was known as the Argonne Low Power Reactor (ALPR) during its design and build phase. It was intended to provide electrical power and heat for small, remote military facilities, such as radar sites near the Arctic Circle, and those in the DEW Line. The design power was 3 MW (thermal), but some 4.7 MW tests were performed in the months prior to the accident. Operating power was 200 kW electrical and 400 kW thermal for space heating.\n\nDuring the accident the core power level reached nearly 20 GW in just four milliseconds, precipitating the steam explosion.\n\nFrom 1954 to 1955, the U.S. Army evaluated their need for nuclear reactor plants that would be operable in remote regions of the Arctic. The reactors were to replace diesel generators and boilers that provided electricity and space heating for the Army's radar stations. The Army Reactors Branch formed the guidelines for the project and contracted with Argonne National Laboratory (ANL) to design, build, and test a prototype reactor plant to be called the Argonne Low Power Reactor (ALPR).\n\nSome of the more important criteria included:\n\nThe prototype was constructed at the NRTS site from July 1957 to July 1958. It went critical on August 11, 1958, became operational on October 24, and was formally dedicated on December 2, 1958. The 3 MW (thermal) boiling water reactor (BWR) used 93.20% highly enriched uranium fuel. It operated with natural circulation, using light water as a coolant (vs. heavy water) and moderator. ANL used its experience from the BORAX experiments to design the BWR. The circulating water system operated at flowing through fuel plates of uranium-aluminum alloy. The plant was turned over to the U.S. Army for training and operating experience in December 1958 after extensive testing, with Combustion Engineering Incorporated (CEI) acting as the lead contractor beginning February 5, 1959.\n\nTrainees in the Army Reactor Training Program included members of the U.S. Army, called \"cadre\", who were the primarily plant operators, although many \"Maritime\" civilians (see NS \"Savannah\") trained, along with a few U.S. Air Force and U.S. Navy personnel. While plant operation was generally done by the \"cadre\" in two-man crews, any development of the reactor was to be supervised directly by CEI staff. CEI decided to perform development work on the reactor as recent as the later half of 1960 in which the reactor was to be operated at 4.7 MW for a \"PL-1 condenser test.\" As the reactor core aged and boron \"poison\" strips corroded and flaked off, CEI calculated that about 18% of the boron in the core had been \"lost.\" This resulted in the addition of \"cadmium sheets\" (also a \"poison\") being added on November 11, 1960, two months before the accident. Corrective actions to the flaking off and/or corrosion loss of boron poison strips included a recent change to the reactor core in which new cadmium sheets were installed \"to several tee slot positions to increase reactor shutdown margin.\" This modification was done on November 15, 1960, some weeks before the accident.\nThe majority of the plant equipment was located in a cylindrical steel reactor building in diameter and an overall height of . The reactor building known as ARA-602 was made of plate steel, most of which had a thickness of 1/4 inch (6 mm). Access to the building was provided by an ordinary door through an enclosed exterior stairwell from ARA-603, the Support Facilities Building. An emergency exit door was also included, with an exterior stairwell going to the ground level. The reactor building was not a pressure-type containment shell as would have been used for reactors located in populated areas. Nevertheless, the building was able to contain most of the radioactive particles released by the eventual explosion.\n\nThe reactor core structure was built for a capacity of 59 fuel assemblies, one source assembly, and 9 control rods. The core in use, however, had 40 fuel elements and was controlled by 5 cruciform rods. The 5 active rods were in the shape of a plus symbol (+) in cross section: 1 in the center (Rod Number 9), and 4 on the periphery of the active core (Rods 1, 3, 5, and 7). The control rods were made of thick cadmium, clad with of aluminum. They had an overall span of and an effective length of . The 40 fuel assemblies were composed of 9 fuel plates each. The plates were thick consisting of of uranium-aluminum alloy \"meat\" covered by of X-8001 aluminum cladding. The meat was long and wide. The water gap between fuel plates was . Water channels within the control rod shrouds was . The initial loading of the 40 assembly core was highly enriched with 93.2% uranium-235 and contained of U-235.\n\nThe deliberate choice of a smaller fuel loading made the region near the center more active than it would have been with 59 fuel assemblies. The four outer control rods weren't even used in the smaller core after tests concluded they weren't necessary. In the operating SL-1 core, Rods Number 2, 4, 6, and 8 were dummy rods, had cadmium shims after November 11, 1960, or were filled with test sensors, and were shaped like the capital letter T. The effort to minimize the size of the core gave the central rod an abnormally large reactivity worth.\n\nOn December 21, 1960, the reactor was shut down for maintenance, calibration of the instruments, installation of auxiliary instruments, and installation of 44 flux wires to monitor the neutron flux levels in the reactor core. The wires were made of aluminum, and contained slugs of aluminum–cobalt alloy.\n\nOn January 3, 1961, the reactor was being prepared for restart after a shutdown of eleven days over the holidays. Maintenance procedures required that the main central control rod be manually withdrawn a few inches to reconnect it to its drive mechanism. At 9:01 p.m., this rod was suddenly withdrawn too far, causing SL-1 to go prompt critical instantly. In four milliseconds, the heat generated by the resulting enormous power excursion caused fuel inside the core to melt and to explosively vaporize. The expanding fuel produced an extreme pressure wave which blasted water upward, striking the top of the reactor vessel with . The slug of water was propelled at about with average pressure of around . This extreme form of water hammer propelled the entire reactor vessel upward at about , while the shield plugs were ejected at about . With 6 holes on the top of the reactor vessel, high pressure water and steam sprayed the entire room with radioactive debris from the damaged core. A later investigation concluded that the vessel had jumped , parts of which struck the ceiling of the reactor building before settling back into its original location, and depositing insulation and gravel on the operating floor. If not for the vessel's #5 seal housing hitting the overhead crane, the pressure vessel had enough upward momentum to rise about . The entire time for the excursion, steam explosion, and vessel movement took between two and four seconds.\n\nThe spray of water and steam knocked two operators onto the floor, killing one and severely injuring another. The No. 7 shield plug from the top of the reactor vessel impaled the third man through his groin and exited his shoulder, pinning him to the ceiling. The victims were Army Specialists John A. Byrnes (age 22) and Richard Leroy McKinley (age 27), and Navy Seabee Construction Electrician First Class (CE1) Richard C. Legg (age 26). It was later established by Todd Tucker that Byrnes (the reactor operator) had lifted the rod and caused the excursion, Legg (the shift supervisor) was standing on top of the reactor vessel and was impaled and pinned to the ceiling, and McKinley, the trainee who stood nearby, was later found alive by rescuers. This was consistent with the analysis of the SL-1 Board of Investigation and somewhat consistent with the autopsy report. All three men succumbed to injuries from physical trauma; however, the radiation from the nuclear excursion would have given the men no chance of survival even if they had not been killed by the explosion stemming from the criticality accident.\n\nSeveral \"kinetic\" factors affect the rate at which the power (heat) produced in a nuclear reactor responds to changes in the position of a control rod. Other features of the design govern how rapidly heat is transferred from the reactor fuel to the coolant.\n\nThe nuclear chain reaction has a positive feedback component whenever a critical mass is created; specifically, excess neutrons are produced for every fission. Inside a nuclear reactor, these excess neutrons must be controlled as long as a critical mass exists. The most significant and effective control mechanism is the use of control rods to absorb the excess neutrons. Other controls include the size and shape of the reactor and the presence of neutron reflectors in and around a core. Changing the amount of absorption or reflection of neutrons will affect neutron flux, and therefore, the power of the reactor.\n\nOne kinetic factor is the tendency of most light-water-moderated reactor (LWR) designs to have negative moderator temperature and void coefficients of reactivity. (Due to the low density of steam, pockets of water vapor are known as \"voids\" in a LWR.) A negative reactivity coefficient means that as the water moderator heats up, molecules move farther apart (water expands and eventually boils) and neutrons are less likely to be slowed by collisions to energies favorable for inducing fission in the fuel. Because of these negative feedback mechanisms, most LWRs will naturally tend to decrease their rate of fissioning in response to additional heat produced within the reactor core. If enough heat is produced that water boils inside the core, fissions in that vicinity will drastically decrease.\n\nHowever, when power output from the nuclear reaction increases rapidly, it may take longer for the water to heat up and boil than it does for the voids to cause the nuclear reactions to decrease. In such an event, reactor power can grow rapidly without any negative feedback from the expansion or boiling of the water, even if it is in a channel just away. Dramatic heating will occur to the nuclear fuel, leading to melting and vaporization of the metals within the core. Rapid expansion, increases in pressure, and failure of core components may lead to the destruction of the nuclear reactor, as was the case with SL-1. As the energy of expansion and heat travel from the nuclear fuel to the water and the vessel, it becomes likely that the nuclear reaction will shut down, either from the lack of sufficient moderator or from the fuel expanding beyond the realm of a critical mass. In the post-accident analysis of SL-1, scientists determined that the two shutdown mechanisms were almost equally matched (see below).\n\nAnother relevant kinetics factor is the contribution of what are called delayed neutrons to the chain reaction in the core. Most neutrons (the \"prompt\" neutrons) are produced nearly instantaneously via fission. But a few — approximately 0.7 percent in a U-235-fueled reactor operating at steady-state — are produced through the relatively slow radioactive decay of certain fission products. (These fission products are trapped inside the fuel plates in close proximity to the uranium-235 fuel.) Delayed production of a fraction of the neutrons is what enables reactor power changes to be controllable on a time scale that is amenable to humans and machinery.\n\nIn the case of an ejected control assembly or poison, it is possible for the reactor to become critical \"on the prompt neutrons alone\" (i.e. prompt critical). When the reactor is prompt critical, the time to double the power is on the order of 10 microseconds. The duration necessary for temperature to follow the power level depends on the design of the reactor core. Typically, the coolant temperature lags behind the power by 3 to 5 seconds in a conventional LWR. In the SL-1 design, it was about 6 milliseconds before steam formation started.\n\nSL-1 was constructed with a main central control rod that was capable of producing a very large excess reactivity if it were completely removed. The extra rod worth was in part due to the decision to load only 40 of the 59 fuel assemblies with nuclear fuel, thus making the prototype reactor core more active in the center. In normal operation control rods are withdrawn only enough to cause sufficient reactivity for a sustained nuclear reaction and power generation. In this accident, however, the reactivity addition was sufficient to take the reactor prompt critical within a time estimated at 4 milliseconds. That was too fast for the heat from the fuel to get through the aluminum cladding and boil enough water to fully stop the power growth in all parts of the core via negative moderator temperature and void feedback.\n\nPost-accident analysis concluded that the final control method (i.e., dissipation of the prompt critical state and the end of the sustained nuclear reaction) occurred by means of catastrophic core disassembly: destructive melting, vaporization, and consequent conventional explosive expansion of the parts of the reactor core where the greatest amount of heat was being produced most quickly. It was estimated that this core heating and vaporization process happened in about 7.5 milliseconds, before enough steam had been formed to shut down the reaction, beating the steam shutdown by a few milliseconds. A key statistic makes it clear why the core blew apart: the reactor designed for a 3 MW power output operated momentarily at a peak of about 20 GW, a power density over 6,000 times higher than its safe operating limit. This criticality accident is estimated to have produced 4.4 x 10 fissions, or about .\n\n There were no other people at the reactor site. The ending of the nuclear reaction was caused solely by the design of the reactor and the basic physics of heated water and core elements melting, separating the core elements and removing the moderator.\n\nHeat sensors above the reactor set off an alarm at the central test site security facility at 9:01 p.m. MST, the time of the accident. False alarms had occurred in the morning and afternoon that same day. The first response crew of six firemen (Ken Dearden Asst Chief, Mel Hess Lt., Bob Archer, Carl Johnson, Egon Lamprecht, Gerald Stuart, & Vern Conlon) arrived nine minutes later, expecting another false alarm. They initially noticed nothing unusual, with only a little steam rising from the building, normal for the cold night. The control building appeared normal. The firefighters entered the reactor building and noticed a radiation warning light. Their radiation detectors jumped sharply to above their maximum range limit as they were climbing the stairs to SL-1's floor level. They peered into the reactor room before withdrawing.\n\nAt 9:17 p.m., a health physicist arrived. He and a fireman, both wearing air tanks and masks with positive pressure in the mask to force out any potential contaminants, approached the reactor building stairs. Their detectors read 25 röntgens per hour (R/hr) as they started up the stairs, and they withdrew.\n\nSome minutes later, a health physics response team arrived with radiation meters capable of measuring gamma radiation up to 500 R/hr and full-body protective clothing. One health physicist and two firefighters ascended the stairs and, from the top, saw damage in the reactor room. With the meter showing maximum scale readings, they withdrew rather than approach the reactor more closely and risk further exposure.\n\nAround 10:30 p.m. MST, the supervisor for the contractor running the site (Combustion Engineering) and the chief health physicist arrived. They entered the reactor building around 10:45 pm and found two mutilated men soaked with water: one clearly dead (Byrnes), the other moving slightly (McKinley) and moaning. With one entry per person and a 1-minute limit, a team of 5 men with stretchers recovered the operator who was still breathing around 10:50; he did not regain consciousness and died of his head injury at about 11 p.m. Even stripped, his body was so contaminated that it was emitting about 500 R/hr. Meanwhile, the third man was discovered about 11:38 p.m., impaled to the ceiling. With all potential survivors now recovered, safety of rescuers took precedence and work was slowed to protect them.\n\nThe third man was discovered last because he was pinned to the ceiling above the reactor by a shield plug and not easily recognizable. On the night of January 4, a team of six volunteers used a plan involving teams of two to recover the body of Byrnes. On January 9, in relays of two at a time, a team of ten men, allowed no more than 65 seconds exposure each, used sharp hooks on the end of long poles to pull Legg's body free of the shield plug, dropping it onto a stretcher attached to a crane outside the building.\n\nRadioactive gold Au from the man's gold watch buckle and copper Cu from a screw in a cigarette lighter subsequently proved that the reactor had indeed gone prompt critical. Prior to the discovery of neutron-activated elements in the men's belongings, scientists had doubted that a nuclear excursion had occurred, believing the reactor was inherently safe. These findings ruled out early speculations that a chemical explosion caused the accident.\n\nThe bodies of all three were buried in lead-lined caskets sealed with concrete and placed in metal vaults with a concrete cover. Some highly radioactive body parts were buried in the Idaho desert as radioactive waste. Army Specialist Richard Leroy McKinley is buried in section 31 of Arlington National Cemetery.\n\nSome sources and eyewitness accounts confuse the names and positions of each victim. In \"Idaho Falls: The untold story of America's first nuclear accident\", the author indicates that initial rescue teams identified Byrnes as the man found initially alive, believing that Legg's body was the one found next to the reactor shield and recovered the night after the accident, and that McKinley was impaled by the control rod to the ceiling directly above the reactor. This misidentification, caused by the severe blast injuries to the victims, was later rectified during the autopsies, but this would cause confusion for some time.\n\nOne of the required maintenance procedures called for the central control rod to be manually withdrawn approximately 4 inches (10 cm) in order to attach it to the automated control mechanism from which it had been disconnected. Post-accident calculations estimate that the main control rod was actually withdrawn approximately , causing the reactor to go prompt critical, which resulted in the steam explosion. The fuel, portions of the fuel plates, and water surrounding the fuel plates vaporized in the extreme heat. The expansion caused by this heating process caused water hammer as water was accelerated upwards toward the reactor vessel head, producing peak pressures of on the head of the reactor vessel when air and then water struck the head at .\n\nThe water hammer not only caused extreme physical damage and distortion of the reactor vessel, it also caused the shield plugs of the vessel to be ejected, one of which impaled Legg. The most surprising and unforeseen evidences of the steam explosion and water hammer were the impressions made on the ceiling above the reactor vessel when it jumped in the air before settling back into its prior location. The post-accident analysis also concluded that the reactor vessel was dry, since most of the water and steam had been either ejected immediately or evaporated due to the heat inside the reactor. A borescope was used to confirm this prior to the removal of the reactor.\n\nIt was water hammer that caused the physical damage to the reactor, the deaths of personnel who stood atop and nearby, and the release of radioactive isotopes to the environment. One of the lessons learned from SL-1 was that there is an extreme water hammer hazard whenever a shutdown reactor is cooled to room temperature and there is an air gap between the top of the water and the reactor vessel head. One of the recommendations in the analysis of the accident was that shutdown reactors be filled to the top with water so that a power excursion could not induce such a powerful water hammer. Air is not dense enough to appreciably slow water, while water (being nearly incompressible) is able to distribute explosive forces and limit peak pressure. The extra water is also a very effective radiation shield for those who are directly above the vessel. Written procedures at SL-1 had included a directive to pump down the level of water in the reactor prior to the maintenance procedure that destroyed it.\n\nThe most common theories proposed for the withdrawal of the rod are (1) sabotage or suicide by one of the operators, (2) a suicide-murder involving an affair with the wife of one of the other operators, (3) inadvertent withdrawal of the main control rod, or (4) an intentional attempt to \"exercise\" the rod (to make it travel more smoothly within its sheath).\nThe maintenance logs do not address what the technicians were attempting to do, and thus the actual cause of the accident will never be known. The investigation took almost two years to complete.\n\nInvestigators analyzed the flux wires installed during the maintenance to determine the power output level. They also examined scratches on the central control rod. Using this data, they concluded that the central rod had been withdrawn . The reactor would have been critical at , and it took approximately 100 ms for the rod to travel the final . Once this was calculated, experiments were conducted with an identically weighted mock control rod to determine whether it was possible or feasible for one or two men to have performed this. Experiments included a simulation of the possibility that the rod was stuck and one man freed it himself, reproducing the scenario that investigators considered the best explanation: Byrnes broke the control rod loose and withdrew it accidentally, killing all three men.\n\nAt SL-1, control rods would get stuck in the control rod channel sporadically. Numerous procedures were conducted to evaluate control rods to ensure they were operating properly. There were rod drop tests and scram tests of each rod, in addition to periodic rod exercising and rod withdrawals for normal operation. From February 1959 to November 18, 1960, there were 40 cases of a stuck control rod for scram and rod drop tests and about a 2.5% failure rate. From November 18, 1960 to December 23, 1960, there was a dramatic increase in stuck rods, with 23 in that time period and a 13.0% failure rate. Besides these test failures, there were an additional 21 rod sticking incidents from February 1959 to December 1960; 4 of these had occurred in the last month of operation during routine rod withdrawal. The central control rod, No. 9, had the best operational performance record even though it was operated more frequently than any of the other rods.\n\nRod sticking has been attributed to misalignment, corrosion product build-up, bearing wear, clutch wear, and drive mechanism seal wear. Many of the failure modes that caused a stuck rod during tests (like bearing and clutch wear) would only apply to a movement performed by the control rod drive mechanism. Since the No. 9 rod is centrally located, its alignment may have been better than Nos. 1, 3, 5, and 7 which were more prone to sticking. After the accident, logbooks and former plant operators were consulted to determine if there had been any rods stuck during the reassembly operation that Byrnes was performing. One person had performed this about 300 times, and another 250 times; neither had ever felt a control rod stick when being manually raised during this procedure. Furthermore, no one had ever reported a stuck rod during manual reconnection.\n\nThe accident caused this design to be abandoned and future reactors to be designed so that a single control rod removal would not have the ability to produce the very large excess reactivity which was possible with this design. Today this is known as the \"one stuck rod\" criterion and requires complete shutdown capability even with the most reactive rod stuck in the fully withdrawn position. The reduced excess reactivity limits the possible size and speed of the power surge. The \"one stuck rod\" criterion did not originate as a result of the SL-1 accident. It was, in fact, a hard and fast design criterion long before the SL-1, from the beginning of the Naval Reactors program, under the leadership of Admiral Hyman Rickover. This design criterion started with the USS Nautilus, and continued throughout subsequent submarine and surface ship designs, and with the Shippingport civilian nuclear plant. It continues to be a requirement for all US reactor designs to this day.\n\nAlthough portions of the center of the reactor core had been vaporized briefly, very little corium was recovered. The fuel plates showed signs of catastrophic destruction leaving voids, but \"no appreciable amount of glazed molten material was recovered or observed.\" Additionally, \"There is no evidence of molten material having flowed out between the plates.\" It is believed that rapid cooling of the core was responsible for the small amount of molten material. There was insufficient heat generated for any corium to reach or penetrate the bottom of the reactor vessel. The reactor vessel was removed on November 29, 1961 without accident. The only holes in the bottom of the vessel were the ones bored through with borescopes to determine the condition of the melted core.\n\nEven without an engineered containment building like those used today, the SL-1 reactor building contained most of the radioactivity, though iodine-131 levels on plants during several days of monitoring reached fifty times background levels downwind. Radiation surveys of the Support Facilities Building, for example, indicated high contamination in halls, but light contamination in offices.\n\nRadiation exposure limits prior to the accident were 100 röntgens to save a life and 25 to save valuable property. During the response to the accident, 22 people received doses of 3 to 27 Röntgens full-body exposure. Removal of radioactive waste and disposal of the three bodies eventually exposed 790 people to harmful levels of radiation. In March 1962, the Atomic Energy Commission awarded certificates of heroism to 32 participants in the response.\n\nThe documentation and procedures required for operating nuclear reactors expanded substantially, becoming far more formal as procedures which had previously taken two pages expanded to hundreds. Radiation meters were changed to allow higher ranges for emergency response activities.\n\nAfter a pause for evaluation of procedures, the Army continued its use of reactors, operating the Mobile Low-Power Reactor (ML-1), which started full power operation on February 28, 1963, becoming the smallest nuclear power plant on record to do so. This design was eventually abandoned after corrosion problems. While the tests had shown that nuclear power was likely to have lower total costs, the financial pressures of the Vietnam War caused the Army to favor lower initial costs and it stopped the development of its reactor program in 1965, although the existing reactors continued operating (MH-1A until 1977).\n\nGeneral Electric Corporation was tasked with the removal of the reactor vessel and the dismantling and cleanup of the contaminated buildings at the SL-1 project site. The site was cleaned in 1961 to 1962, removing the bulk of the contaminated debris and burying it. The massive cleanup operation included the transport of the reactor vessel to a nearby \"hot shop\" for extensive analysis. Other items of less importance were either disposed of or transported to decontamination sites for various kinds of cleaning. About 475 people took part in the SL-1 site cleanup, including volunteers from the U.S. Army and the Atomic Energy Commission.\n\nThe recovery operation included clearing the operating room floor of radioactive debris. The extremely high radiation areas surrounding the reactor vessel and the fan room directly above it contributed to the difficulty of recovering the reactor vessel. Remotely operated equipment, cranes, boom trucks, and safety precautions had to be developed and tested by the recovery team. Radiation surveys and photographic analysis was used to determine what items needed to be removed from the building first. Powerful vacuum cleaners, operated manually by teams of men, collected vast quantities of debris. The manual overhead crane above the operating floor was used to move numerous heavy objects weighing up to for them to be dumped out onto the ground outside. Hot spots up to 400 R/hr were discovered and removed from the work area.\n\nWith the operating room floor relatively clean and radiation fields manageable, the manual overhead crane was employed to do a trial lift of the reactor vessel. The crane was fitted with a dial-type load indicator and the vessel was lifted a few inches. The successful test found that the estimated vessel plus an unknown amount of debris weighed about . After removing a large amount of the building structure above the reactor vessel, a 60-ton Manitowoc Model 3900 crane lifted the vessel out of the building into an awaiting transport cask attached to a tractor-trailer combination with a low-boy 60-ton capacity trailer. After raising or removing 45 power lines, phone lines, and guy wires from the proposed roadway, the tractor trailer, accompanied by numerous observers and supervisors, proceeded at about to the ANP Hot Shop, about away. The Hot Shop, originally associated with the Aircraft Nuclear Propulsion (ANP) program, was in a remote area of the NRTS known later as Test Area North.\n\nA burial ground was constructed approximately northeast of the original site of the reactor. It was opened on May 21, 1961. Burial of the waste helped minimize radiation exposure to the public and site workers that would have resulted from transport of contaminated debris from SL-1 to the Radioactive-Waste Management Complex over of public highway. Original cleanup of the site took about 18 months. The entire reactor building, contaminated materials from nearby buildings, and soil and gravel contaminated during cleanup operations were disposed of in the burial ground. The majority of buried materials consist of soils and gravel.\n\nRecovered portions of the reactor core, including the fuel and all other parts of the reactor that were important to the accident investigation, were taken to the ANP Hot Shop for study. After the accident investigation was complete, the reactor fuel was sent to the Idaho Chemical Processing Plant for reprocessing. The reactor core minus the fuel, along with the other components sent to the Hot Shop for study, was eventually disposed of at the Radioactive Waste Management Complex.\n\nThe remains of the SL-1 reactor are now buried near the original site at . The SL-1 burial ground consists of three excavations, in which a total volume of 99,000 cubic feet (2800 m) of contaminated material was deposited. The excavations were dug as close to basalt as the equipment used would allow and ranges from 8 to 14 feet (2.4 to 4.3 m) in depth. At least 2 feet (0.6 m) of clean backfill was placed over each excavation. Shallow mounds of soil over the excavations were added at the completion of cleanup activities in September 1962. The site and burial mound are collectively known as United States Environmental Protection Agency Superfund Operable Unit 5-05.\n\nNumerous radiation surveys and cleanup of the surface of the burial ground and surrounding area have been performed in the years since the SL-1 accident. Aerial surveys were performed by EG&G Las Vegas in 1974, 1982, 1990, and 1993. The Radiological and Environmental Sciences Laboratory conducted gamma radiation surveys every 3 to 4 years between 1973 and 1987 and every year between 1987 and 1994. Particle-picking at the site was performed in 1985 and 1993. Results from the surveys indicated that cesium-137 and its progeny (decay products) are the primary surface-soil contaminants. During a survey of surface soil in June 1994, \"hot spots,\" areas of higher radioactivity, were found within the burial ground with activities ranging from 0.1 to 50 milliroentgen (mR)/hour. On November 17, 1994, the highest radiation reading measured at 2.5 feet (0.75 m) above the surface at the SL-1 burial ground was 0.5 mR/hour; local background radiation was 0.2 mR/hour. A 1995 assessment by the EPA recommended that a cap be placed over the burial mounds. The primary remedy for SL-1 was to be containment by capping with an engineered barrier constructed primarily of native materials. This remedial action was completed in 2000 and first reviewed by the EPA in 2003.\n\nThe U.S. Government produced a film about the accident for internal use in the 1960s. The video was subsequently released and can be viewed at The Internet Archive and YouTube. \"SL-1\" is the title of a 1983 movie, written and directed by Diane Orr and C. Larry Roberts, about the nuclear reactor explosion. Interviews with scientists, archival film, and contemporary footage, as well as slow-motion sequences, are used in the film. The events of the accident are also the subject of one book: \"Idaho Falls: The untold story of America's first nuclear accident\" (2003) and 2 chapters in \"Proving the Principle - A History of The Idaho National Engineering and Environmental Laboratory, 1949-1999\" (2000).\n\nIn 1975, the anti-nuclear book \"We Almost Lost Detroit\", by John G. Fuller was published, referring at one point to the Idaho Falls accident. \"Prompt Critical\" is the title of a 2012 short film, viewable on YouTube.com, written and directed by James Lawrence Sicard, dramatizing the events surrounding the SL-1 accident. A documentary about the accident was shown on the History Channel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30297361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30297361", "title": "Samaritan revolts", "text": "Samaritan revolts\n\nThe Samaritan revolts were a series of insurrections during the 5th and 6th centuries in Palaestina Prima province, launched by the Samaritans against the Byzantine Empire. The revolts were marked by great violence on both sides, and their brutal suppression at the hands of the Byzantines and their Ghassanid allies severely reduced the Samaritan population. The events irreversibly shifted the demographics of the region, making the Christians the only dominant group in the Palaestina Prima province for many decades onward. \n\nSome historians draft comparisons between the consequences of the Samaritan revolts of the 5th and 6th centuries upon Samaritans to the consequences of Jewish–Roman Wars of the 1st and 2nd centuries upon the Jews in the region.\n\nFollowing the period of Jewish–Roman wars, the previously dominating Jewish community went almost extinct across Judaea and the shore of Southern Levant, remaining a majority only in Southern Judea, Galilee and Bashan (Golan). Samaritans and Byzantine Christians filled this vacuum in the central regions of Southern Levant, whereas Nabataeans and Christian Ghassanid Arabs settled the periphery.\n\nThis period is considered a golden age for the Samaritan community. The Temple of Gerizim was rebuilt after the Bar Kochba revolt in Judaea, around 135 CE. With the withdrawal of Roman legions, Samaria enjoyed a limited kind of independence during the 3rd and 4th centuries. Baba Rabba (ca. 288-362), the leader of the Samaritans, divided Samaritan territories into districts, and established local rulers out of aristocratic Samaritan families. He also executed a series of reforms and installed state institutions. Much of Samaritan liturgy was set by Baba Rabba during this time. This period of semi-independence was brief, however, as Byzantine forces overran Samaria and took Baba Rabba captive to Constantinople, where he died in prison several years later around 362 CE.\n\nDuring the reign of Emperor Zeno, tensions between the Christian community and the Samaritans in Neapolis (Shechem) grew dramatically. According to Samaritan sources, Eastern Roman Emperor Zeno (who ruled 474–491 and whom the sources call \"Zait the King of Edom\") persecuted the Samaritans with no mercy. The Emperor went to Neapolis, gathered the elders and asked them to convert; when they refused, Zeno had many Samaritans killed, and rebuilt the synagogue into a church. Zeno then took for himself Mount Gerizim, where the Samaritans worshipped God, and built several edifices, among them a tomb for his recently deceased son, on which he put a cross, so that the Samaritans, worshipping God, would prostrate in front of the tomb.\n\nLater, in 484, the Samaritans revolted, provoked by rumors that the Christians intended to transfer the remains of Aaron's sons and grandsons Eleazar, Ithamar and Phinehas. Samaritans reacted by entering the cathedral of Neapolis, killing the Christians inside and severing the fingers of the bishop Terebinthus.\n\nThe Samaritans elected Justa (or Justasas) as their king and moved to Caesarea, where a noteworthy Samaritan community lived. There many Christians were killed and the church of St. Procopius was destroyed. Justa celebrated the victory with games in the circus.\n\nAccording to John Malalas, Asclepiades, the \"dux Palaestinae\" (commander of the province's Limes Arabicus troops), whose units were reinforced by the Caesarea-based \"Arcadiani\" of \"lestodioktes\" (police chief) Rheges, defeated Justa, killed him and sent his head to Zeno. Terebinthus meanwhile fled to Constantinople, requesting an army garrison to prevent further attacks. According to Procopius, Terebinthus went to Zeno to ask for revenge; the Emperor personally went to Samaria to quell the rebellion.\n\nAs a result of the revolt, Zeno erected a church dedicated to Mary, mother of Jesus on Mount Gerizim. He also forbade the Samaritans to travel to the mountain to celebrate their religious ceremonies, and confiscated their synagogue there. These actions by the emperor fueled Samaritan anger towards the Christians further.\n\nSome modern historians believe that the order of the facts preserved by Samaritan sources should be inverted, as the persecution of Zeno was a consequence of the rebellion rather than its cause, and should have happened after 484, around 489. Zeno rebuilt the church of Saint Procopius in Neapolis and the Samaritans were banned from Mount Gerizim, on whose top a signaling tower was built to alert in case of civil unrest.\n\nSamaritans rebelled again in 495, during the reign of Emperor Anastasius I Dicorus, reoccupying Mount Gerizim. The Samaritan mob commanded by a Samaritan woman is said to have seized the Church of St. Mary and massacred the garrison. The revolt was subsequently suppressed by the Byzantine governor of Edessa, Procopius, and the Samaritan leaders were slain.\n\nUnder a charismatic, messianic figure named Julianus ben Sabar (or ben Sahir), the Samaritans launched a war, sometimes referred as the final Samaritan revolt, to create their own independent state in 529. This was perhaps the most violent among all the Samaritan uprisings. According to Procopius, the violence erupted due to restrictions imposed on Samaritans by the Byzantine authorities via Justinian's edicts, while Cyril of Scythopolis indicates sectarian tensions between Christians and Samaritans as the primary cause for the revolt.\n\nFollowing massive riots in Scythopolis and Samarian countryside, the rebels could quickly conquer Neapolis and ben Sabar emerged as their leader, being proclaimed a king. Ben Sabar followed a strict anti-Christian policy: Neapolis' bishop and many priests were murdered and he persecuted the Christians, destroyed churches and organized guerrilla warfare in the countryside, driving the Christians away. According to Byzantine sources, the name of the bishop was Ammonas (also Sammon or Ammon). As a response, forces of the \"dux Palaestinae\", combined with units of local governors and the Ghassanid Arab phylarch, were dispatched to deal with the uprising. Ben Sabar was surrounded and defeated after withdrawing with his forces from Neapolis. After his capture, he was beheaded and his head, crowned with a diadem, was sent to Emperor Justianian.\n\nBy 531 the rebellion had been put down. The forces of Emperor Justinian I quelled the revolt with the help of the Ghassanid Arabs; tens of thousands of Samaritans died or were enslaved, with their death-toll possibly being between 20,000 and 100,000. The Christian Byzantine Empire thereafter virtually outlawed the Samaritan faith. According to Procopius of Caesarea, the majority of Samaritan peasants chose to be defiant in this revolt, and \"were cut to pieces\". Further, Samaria, the \"world's most fertile land, was left with no one to till it\".\n\nThe emperor Justinian faced another major revolt in 556. On this occasion the Jews and the Samaritans seem to have made common cause, beginning their rebellion in Caesarea early in July. They fell upon the Christians in the city, killing many of them, after which they attacked and plundered the churches. The governor, Stephanus, and his military escort were pressed hard, and eventually the governor was killed, while taking refuge in his own house. Amantius, the governor of the East was ordered to quell the revolt, after the widow of Stephanus reached Constantinople.\n\nDespite the Jewish participation, the rebellion seems to have gathered less support than the revolt of Ben Sabar. The Church of the Nativity was burned down, suggesting that the rebellion had spread south to Bethlehem. Either 100,000 or 120,000 are said to have been butchered following the revolt. Others were tortured or driven into exile. However, this is probably an exaggeration as punishment seems to have been limited to the district of Caesarea.\n\nStill, the tensions were not over yet. Emperor Justin II (r. 565-578) complained about \"outrages committed by...Samaritans at the foot of Mount Carmel upon the Christian Churches and the holy images\". Probably in response to this event, Justin II issued an order in May 572 rescinding the restoration of rights granted by Justinian. In response, a second joint Samaritan-Jewish revolt took place in summer 572 and again in early 573 or alternatively in 578. John of Ephesus and John of Nikiû may have described this revolt.\n\nThe Samaritan faith was outlawed and from a population of nearly a million, the Samaritan community dwindled to near extinction. The situation of Samaritans further worsened with the failure of Jewish revolt against Heraclius and slaughter of Jewish population in 629.\n\nSamaritan numbers remained very low in the Islamic era, similar to the late Byzantine period - a result of previous revolts and forced conversions. Contemporary sources claim between 30 and 80 thousand Samaritans to have lived in Caesarea prior to Muslim invasion, compared with roughly 100 thousand Jews, and those minorities out of the total provincial population of 700 thousand, a majority of whom were Christian at the time. By the early Islamic period the Samaritan diaspora disappears from records except small communities of Egypt and Damascus. The Egyptian Samaritan community was likely swelled due to refugees from coastal cities of Palestine as a result of Muslim invasion.\n\nFollowing the Muslim conquest of the Levant in 636, Samaritans suffered more disabilities than Christians and Jews, as Arab rulers often doubted whether Samaritans are included within the Muslim definition of \"People of the Book\", though according to Nathan Schur, the Arab Islamic invasion had initially benefited with the community. Samaritans still converted to Islam due to economic reasons, social advancement and theological reasons and thus community numbers plunged further. Harsh persecution of Samaritans was however led by the more fanatical Caliphs, such as Al-Mansur (754-775), Harun al-Rashid (786-809) and al-Mutawakkil (847-861). Islamic religious leaders had periodically sought to consolidate their power by stirring anti-Samaritan sentiments and occasionally calling for their annihilation. As a result, the Samaritan wealth was practically wiped out.\n\n"}
{"id": "45672795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45672795", "title": "Station Square collapse", "text": "Station Square collapse\n\nThe Station Square collapse, also known as the Save-On-Foods collapse, was a major structural failure of a new supermarket and parking facility in Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada. On April 23, 1988, within minutes of the grand opening of a new Save-On-Foods store, a portion of the roof collapsed sending the rooftop parking deck and 20 automobiles crashing into the produce section below. There were no fatalities and 21 people were treated in hospital. In the years following the collapse, recommendations from a commission of inquiry resulted in significant changes to the practice of architecture and engineering throughout British Columbia.\n\nAt 9:00 AM on the morning of April 23, 1988, customers were let into the store as part of a grand opening sale for senior citizens. Within 10 minutes an employee noticed water spraying from an overhead pipe that had burst. It was buckling under pressure from a roof beam that was twisting out of shape above a steel column. The 4.5 minute-long structural failure was heard and witnessed by many of the store occupants, including several who took photographs of the twisting and crushed beam. Evacuation alerts were issued through the public address system and the store was emptied in less than 5 minutes. The mayor of Burnaby, Bill Copeland, who presided over the opening ceremonies, assisted in directing the evacuation of approximately 600 customers and 307 employees.\n\nFour structural bays of the roof, measuring , collapsed into the produce section. One store employee was trapped under the debris and was removed by first responders using forklifts; he suffered a crushed pelvis. Several people were blown off their feet by the rushing air from the collapse.\n\nThe $100 million Station Square development project was begun in 1985 by Georgilas Investments. In 1986 Station Square/Wesbild purchased the as-yet unbuilt project.\n\nThe supermarket facility was a $5.4 million part of the newly constructed mixed-use Station Square, complex in the Metrotown area of Burnaby, a suburb of Vancouver. The facility was owned and developed by Wesbild Enterprises and Station Square Developments Inc.. Urban Design Group were the architects. Amako Construction Ltd. was the general contractor. Two structural engineering firms were involved: Tamm Tacy and Associates and MSS Group who were engaged during construction to provide additional structural verification. Save-On-Foods, then owned by the Overwaitea Foods division of Jim Pattison Industries (now Jim Pattison Group), was a tenant, not the owner or developer of the building.\n\nBefore construction started, one of the contractors bidding on the work proposed adding car parking onto the roof. The owner asked the architects and engineers to determine if this was feasible; they did and recommended changes to the design of the structure for additional support and to provide access by way of a moving walkway.\n\nThe structural failure was a direct result of the failure of the roof beam to support the weight of the rooftop parking structure and automobiles above. It was determined that the steel beam was undersized for its intended purpose and did not have bracing required to resist buckling above where it was supported on the column.\n\nSeveral factors were determined by the Commissioner of Inquiry into the collapse to have contributed to the collapse. These included, in part or in combination, errors on the part of the engineers, contractors, and steel supplier/mill. It has also been argued that then-industry standard procedures in engaging and valuation of engineering services and certification of contractors' work were also contributing factors.\n\nDuring the design phase, the thickness of the roof beam that failed was reduced by 27% to a size incapable of supporting the loads above, even with lateral bracing. The reasons for this change have not been determined. \"The beam was greatly under designed. The beam column assembly lacked essential lateral supports. Failure was inevitable. If not under April 23 loads, then under full service loads.\"\n\nNovember 1987, during construction, a beam in the area of the moving walkway deflected and caused the residential structure above to tilt approximately from vertical. The structural engineers reviewed the design in this area and recommended additional columns, stronger beams, and concrete reinforcing be added. This was done. In December 1987, Wesbild/Station Square hired the MSS Group to conduct a review of the engineering design in this area. They made recommendations, including remedial work to beams with insufficient capacity, to which Tamm Tacy concurred. Both firms later certified that this remedial work has been completed by the contractor.\n\nIn March 1988 the MSS Group was hired by the tenant, Save-On-Foods, to conduct a structural review of the entire project due to concerns about deflections of roof beams above the store. MSS found two beams to have \"insufficient capacity\" and made recommendations for correction. Both engineering firms, the architects, developer, and contractor took steps to initiate this action. The following day Tamm Tacy advised that this remedial work would not be necessary due to the steel mill who had fabricated the beam provided documentation indicating the actual capacity of the beam was significantly greater than documentation used during design. MSS Group advised that the beam was therefore \"satisfactory to resist the design loadings imposed\" and \"this information is a blessing for all concerned\".\n\nTwo types of failure occurred: beam bending with buckling of the lower beam flange, and buckling of the beam-column assembly. The first was determined to be the most probable prime failure and the second the less probably prime cause.\n\nThe beam that failed was a 24 inch () deep wide flange steel beam. Failure occurred at the point where it was supported on top of a steel column. One end of the beam was continuously supported (on other columns) and the other end was cantilevered (not supported on other columns). With the weight of the cars parking on the roof, the beam began to buckle and was photographed to have rotated approximately 90 degrees from the vertical to the horizontal position above the supporting column. For an estimate 4 1/2 minutes, the roof deck and supporting joists sagged and functioned as a form of suspension bridge.\n\nThe concrete topping on the roof deck was increased from to thickness. The design of the supporting roof joists were increased to account for this increased dead load, but the beam was not.\n\nThe width of the rooftop sidewalk was increased from to . The engineer's design called for this to be concrete over styrofoam; the contractor built the extra width of solid concrete. This increase in dead load was not known to the architects and engineers at the time and so no change to supporting structure was investigated.\n\nThe MSS Group recommended strengthening the beam above the column by adding a beam bracket with web stiffeners. This change was not implemented when Tamm Tacy advised that mill certificates obtained from the steel sub-contractor indicated to be 25% higher strength than expected. It was later determined that this type of data is not a truly representative sampling of the steel as fabricated and so is not a valid measure of actual strength.\n\nLateral bracing can increase the capacity of beams. It can be provided by roof joists or beam web stiffeners. The engineering drawings did not indicate lateral bracing to be provided at the column where the collapse occurred. The engineers did not study the reduced capacity of the beam due to lack of lateral support.\n\nThere was a misunderstanding of who was to determine the need for lateral bracing. The steel subcontractor stated they did not provide web stiffeners to the beam as they weren't indicated on the engineering drawings. Tamm Tacy stated they believed the decision to provide the stiffeners resided with the steel subcontractor's detailer.\n\nEngineers at the MSS Group made incorrect assumptions about the live loads on the roof deck in checking the design.\n\nThe Commissioner of Inquiry noted three common practices of the development and construction industry were cause for concern: fast-tracking, bidding for professional services, and fragmentation of contractual responsibility.\n\nThe Fast-track construction process obtaining permits and commencing construction on a portion of the project before the design is fully completed. This process, where \"time is money\", can involve significant design changes being made during construction. This can create confusion and delay and significantly increase opportunities for error.\n\nThe primary structural engineering firm for Station Square project, Tamm Tacy and Associates, was one of several firms who submitted fee proposals to the developer for services. The Commissioner's report stated that, based on the fees, all of the firms \"did not intend to provide\" the proper level of professional service Their fee of $17,000 on a $5.4 million total construction cost was a significantly lower percentage than recommended by the Association of Professional Engineers and Geoscientists of British Columbia tariff of fees.\n\nThe Commissioner's report recommended that the APEGBC be permitted to establish and enforce a minimum tariff of fees.\n\nThe provincial government convened a Commissioner Inquiry on May 4, 1988 to report on the causes of the failure. It was headed by Dan J. Closkey and delivered its report on August 26 1988. The event also became known as “Cave-on-Foods” in the media and popular culture.\n\nKey findings of the Commissioner of Inquiry's report are listed in the Background and cause section above. Major recommendations included:\n\nIt was noted that contrary to the perception of the general public, engineering design, verification, and monitoring of construction lies with professional engineers hired for the project, not the building inspectors. The report recommended that the BC Building Code and Engineers Act be amended to require that structural calculations and drawings be submitted when applying for a building permit; detailed review should be conducted on a random sampling; where warranted the designs should be submitted for detailed review to the professional engineers' governing body; and review costs should be born by municipal levies on building permits.\n\nThe building code should include province-wide, standard Letters of Assurance, documents that the registered professionals (architects and engineers) responsible for the design would certify that the design conforms to the building codes, will be retained for construction review and, at the end of construction, to certify that the construction conforms with the approved construction documents and codes. This recommendation was implemented in the 1992 edition of the British Columbia Building Code.\n\nIn 1989 the four engineers from the two engineering firms (Tammy Tacy and Associates, MSS Engineering (Structural) Ltd.) involved in the collapse were found guilty of incompetence, negligence or professional misconduct by a five-member panel of the professional engineers governing body. The panel noted inadequate design of the roof structure, including the support beams, failure to inspect the construction of the roofs assembly, and failure to direct or check the work on the project of the engineer in training who was directly managing the project. The panel also found that the engineers’ code of ethics had been breached by one of the firm's partners signing and applying his professional seal to plans and specifications that he had not prepared or supervised. Also faulted were the engineers for inadequately reviewing the structure before the collapse, including not noticing that lateral supports were missing.\n\nBetween 1991 and 1994, the APEGBC also made recommendations and took actions in their professional governance geared towards preventing reoccurrence of the actions that led to the collapse. The Canadian Institute of Steel Construction took action to implement recommendations of the inquiry's report.\n\nThere were several lawsuits resulting from the collapse. These included litigation by the developers against the general contractor, architects, and structural engineers; by the developers against the consultants' insurance companies; and by owners of the automobiles destroyed in the collapse against the developer, contractor, architects, engineers, and the supermarket.\n\nThe Save-On-Foods and rooftop parking structure was repaired and the store operated until 2012. The complex was demolished in 2013 as part of a new development with a 35-story tower comprising condominium units, offices, and ground floor retail. The store reopened in a new space approximately half its previous size in late 2015 in this development.\n\n"}
{"id": "1718897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1718897", "title": "Tafelmusik", "text": "Tafelmusik\n\nTafelmusik (German: literally, \"table-music\") is a term used since the mid-16th century for music played at feasts and banquets. Often the term was also used as a title for collections of music, some of which was intended to be so used. The function was displaced in the late 18th century by the divertimento, and its importance soon diminished, but it was revived and partially restored in the vocal genre of the \"Liedertafel\" by Carl Friedrich Zelter beginning in 1809, and male-voice choral societies describing themselves by this name continued the practice until the mid-20th century.\n\nSome of the most significant composers of \"Tafelmusik\" included Johann Schein, whose \"Banchetto musicale\" of 1617 acquired considerable fame, and Michael Praetorius, who wrote about the phenomenon of \"Tafelmusik\" in his \"Syntagma musicum\" of 1619. Music from Schein's collection is still performed by early music ensembles with some regularity.\n\nThe \"Tafelmusik\" or \"Musique de Table\" by the Baroque composer Georg Philipp Telemann is perhaps his most celebrated collection of music. Composed in 1733, Telemann's \"Tafelmusik\" has been compared as a collection to the renowned Brandenburg concertos of Johann Sebastian Bach in clearly demonstrating the composer’s supreme skill in handling a diversity of musical genres and a variety of instruments.\n\n\"Tafelmusik\" could be either instrumental, vocal, or both. As might be expected, it was often of a somewhat lighter character than music for other occasions.\n"}
{"id": "58624440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58624440", "title": "Tallinna saksa teater", "text": "Tallinna saksa teater\n\nThe Tallinna saksa teater or Reval German Theater (German: \"Revaler Deutsches Theater\"), was the second theater building and the first professional theater in the city of Tallin (then Reval) in Estonia, founded in 1795 and closed in 1939. It was named (German) \"Revaler Theater\" or (Estonian) \"Tallinna Teater\" in 1809-1860, (Estonian) \"Tallinna Linnateater\" or (German) \"Revaler Stadttheater\" in 1860-1910, and \"Tallinna saksa teater\" in 1910-1939. \n\nThe theater was built to replace the first theater in Tallin, the \"Revaler Liebhaber Theater\" (1784-1792). It was used by the German language amateur dramatic society, which was founded in 1784 and performed German language drama and opera under August von Kotzebue. \n\nIn 1809, however, the theater was made a professional theater with professional German language actors, which made it the first professional theater in Tallin. \n\nIn 1939, the theater was closed and moved to occupied Poland by the order of the German government. \n\nThe building is no used by the Estonian Drama Theatre.\n\n"}
{"id": "6617680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6617680", "title": "Taro Tsujimoto", "text": "Taro Tsujimoto\n\nTaro Tsujimoto (Japanese katakana: ツジモト　タロウ; hiragana: つじもと　たろう) is an imaginary ice hockey player who was \"selected\" by the National Hockey League's Buffalo Sabres 183rd overall in the 11th round of the 1974 NHL Amateur Draft. \n\nThe Sabres' general manager at the time, Punch Imlach, was reportedly fed up with the slow drafting process via the telephone, a process intended to keep draft picks secret from the rival World Hockey Association. Imlach, who had already drafted several players that would go on to great success with the team (Derek Smith in the previous round and All-Stars Lee Fogolin and Danny Gare in the first two rounds) earlier in the draft, decided to have some fun at the expense of the league and Clarence Campbell, the NHL president for the last 28 years. He enlisted PR Director Paul Wieland to create a fictional player. \n\nWieland wanted the player to be of Asian descent and he knew instantly what the last name would be. As a college student driving Route 16 from Buffalo to St. Bonaventure, Wieland would regularly pass the Tsujimoto store and that name just stuck in his head. In 2013, hockey blogger Ben Tsujimoto revealed that Imlach eventually called his grandfather – Joshua Tsujimoto, a local grocery store owner – and a Sabres staffer asked for permission to use his family name without revealing the club's true intent, as well as asking what were \"popular\" first names in Japanese. Imlach chose to select star center Taro Tsujimoto of the Japanese Hockey League's Tokyo Katanas, with \"Katanas\" being an approximation for \"Sabres\" in the Japanese language, both referring to types of swords. (The JIHL, although it was a real entity, had no team representing Tokyo at the time; Kokudo would not relocate to the city until 1984. Incidentally, many years later, Kokudo would provide the first \"real\" Japanese player to play in the NHL, Yutaka Fukufuji.) The NHL made the pick official, and so it was reported by media outlets including \"The Hockey News\".\n\nTsujimoto's pick came at a time when the NHL was only beginning to expand its reach for players outside Canada and the United States; Scandinavian players were beginning to be drafted into, and enter, the league at around the same time. Although the players of the Soviet Union, at the time an international powerhouse, were effectively off-limits, it would have not been out of the ordinary to be scouting for new hockey talent in unusual places, which is part of the reason there were no major objections to the legitimacy of Imlach's draft pick.\n\nImlach did not acknowledge the fake draft pick until just before the start of training camp that year. The NHL would eventually change the pick to an \"invalid claim\" for its official record-keeping purposes. Campbell did not find the hoax draft pick nearly as funny as Imlach, but this was after Tsujimoto's name had appeared in several NHL publications. Tsujimoto is still listed as a fictitious entry among Sabres' draft picks in the Sabres media guide. Hockey-Reference.com lists the Sabres as having no 11th-round pick in 1974 on their list of Sabres draft picks, and skips right over the 183rd pick on their lists of 1974 selections.\n\nAmong the players selected after Tsujimoto were Dave Lumley, who played nine years in the NHL and won two Stanley Cups with the Edmonton Oilers, and Stefan Persson, who was selected in the 14th round by the New York Islanders and played for all four of their Cup-winning teams. (Lumley and Persson even faced each other in the 1983 Stanley Cup Finals.)\n\nTsujimoto quickly became an inside joke for Sabres' fans and staffers. For years after the pick, fans would chant \"We Want Taro\" when games at the Buffalo Memorial Auditorium became one-sided. In addition, for many years, banners would be hung from the balcony rail stating \"Taro Says...\" followed by a witty comment against an opponent or player for the opponent.\n\nIn the summer of 2011, trading card company Panini America added Tsujimoto to its \"2010-11 Score Rookies & Traded box set\". The card used a picture of an unidentified Asian man playing hockey for a team wearing similar blue-and-gold colors to the Sabres.\n\nAs of 2015, Andrew Kulyk, sportswriter for local alternative weekly, \"Artvoice\", includes short musings on the local sports scene under the heading \"Taro Sez\" in most of his columns.\n\n"}
{"id": "6860576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6860576", "title": "Teatro Comunale, Florence", "text": "Teatro Comunale, Florence\n\nThe is an opera house in Florence, Italy. It was originally built as the open-air amphitheatre, the Politeama Fiorentino Vittorio Emanuele, which was inaugurated on 17 May 1862 with a production of \nDonizetti's \"Lucia di Lammermoor\" and which seated 6,000 people. It became the focus on cultural life in the city. After closure caused by fire, it reopened in April 1864 and acquired a roof in 1882. By 1911 it had both electricity and heating.\n\nIn 1930 the building was taken over by the city authorities who renamed it the \"Teatro Comunale\". Bombing during the Second World War damaged the building once again, and other problems closed it for three years in 1958. Finally, in May 1961, the then-modernized theatre reopened with Verdi's \"Don Carlo\". It had become a 2,000 seat elliptically shaped auditorium consisting of a large orchestra section, one tier of boxes, and two wide semicircular galleries, which betray the building's amphitheatre origins.\n\nAs the theatre became more closely associated with Italy's first and most important music festival, the annual Maggio Musicale Fiorentino which had begun in 1931 as a triennial festival and, except for the war years, became an annual one after 1937, so its name was changed once again for the festivals to the .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38614423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38614423", "title": "Terminalia", "text": "Terminalia\n\nTerminalia was an ancient Roman festival in honour of the god Terminus, who presided over boundaries. His statue was merely a stone or post stuck in the ground to distinguish between properties. His worship is said to have been instituted by Numa who ordered that every one should mark the boundaries of his landed property by stones to be consecrated to Jupiter Terminalis, and at which every year sacrifices were to be offered at the festival of the Terminalia. On the festival the two owners of adjacent property crowned the statue with garlands and raised a crude altar, on which they offered up some corn, honeycombs, and wine, and sacrificed a lamb or a suckling pig. They concluded with singing the praises of the god. The public festival in honour of this god was celebrated at the sixth milestone on the road towards Laurentum doubtless because this was originally the extent of the Roman territory in that direction.\n\nThe festival of the Terminalia was celebrated VII. \"Kal. Mart.\", or the 23d of February on the day before the Regifugium. The Terminalia was celebrated on the last day of the old Roman year, whence some derive its name. We know that February was the last month of the Roman year, and that when the intercalary month Mercedonius was added, the last five days of February were added to the intercalary month, making the 23d of February the last day of the year. When Cicero in a letter to Atticus says, \"Accepi tuas litteras a. d. V. Terminalia\" (i.e. Feb. 19), he uses this strange mode of defining a date, because being then in Cilicia he did not know whether any intercalation had been inserted that year.\n\nThe central Terminus of Rome (to which all roads led) was the god's ancient shrine on the Capitoline Hill. The temple of Jupiter, king of the gods, had to be built around it (with a hole in the ceiling as Terminus demanded open-air sacrifices) by the city's last king, Tarquinius Superbus, who had closed down other shrines on the site to make room for this prestigious project. But the augurs had read into the flight patterns of birds that the god Terminus refused to be moved, which was taken as a sign of stability for the city.\n\n"}
{"id": "6002126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6002126", "title": "Voice phishing", "text": "Voice phishing\n\nVoice phishing is a form of criminal phone fraud, using social engineering over the telephone system to gain access to private personal and financial information for the purpose of financial reward. It is sometimes referred to as vishing - a portmanteau of \"voice\" and phishing. \n\nLandline telephone services have traditionally been trustworthy; terminated in physical locations known to the telephone company, and associated with a bill-payer. Now however, vishing fraudsters often use modern Voice over IP (VoIP) features such as caller ID spoofing and automated systems (IVR) to make it difficult for legal authorities to monitor, trace or block. Voice phishing is typically used to steal credit card numbers or other information used in identity theft schemes from individuals.\n\n\nAlthough the use of automated responders and war dialers is preferred by the vishers, there have been reported cases where human operators play an active role in these scams, in an attempt to persuade their victims. Posing as an employee of a legitimate body such as the bank, police, telephone or internet provider, the fraudster attempts to obtain personal details and financial information regarding credit card, bank accounts (e.g. the PIN) as well as personal information of the victim. With the received information, the fraudster might be able to access and empty the account or to commit identity fraud. Some fraudsters may also try to persuade the victim to transfer money to another bank account or withdraw cash to be given to them directly.\n\nAnother simple trick used by the fraudsters is to ask the called parties to hang up and dial their bank, but after the victim hangs up, the fraudster does not, keeping the line open and remaining connected when the victim picks up the phone to dial. When in doubt, calling a company's telephone number listed on billing statements or other official sources is recommended, as opposed to calling numbers received from messages or callers of dubious authenticity. However, sometimes hanging up and redialing is insufficient: if the caller has not hung up, the victim might still be connected, and the fraudster spoofs a dial tone down the phone line to entice the victim to dial. Then the fraudster's accomplice answers and impersonates whomever the victim is trying to call. This is known as a 'no hang-up' scam. Hence consumers are advised to use a different phone when dialing a company's number to confirm.\n\nBank account data is not the only sensitive information being targeted. Fraudsters are also trying to obtain security credentials from consumers who use Microsoft or Apple products by spoofing the caller ID of Microsoft or Apple Inc..\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1711322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1711322", "title": "Wake Me Up When September Ends", "text": "Wake Me Up When September Ends\n\n\"Wake Me Up When September Ends\" is a song by American rock band Green Day, released on August 31, 2005, as the fourth single from the group's seventh studio album, \"American Idiot\" (2004). The song was written by frontman Billie Joe Armstrong regarding the death of his father of esophageal cancer on September 1, 1982 when the singer was just 10 years old.\n\nThe song became a hit single, peaking at number six on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. It was also a top ten single in the United Kingdom, Belgium, New Zealand, and was a number one single in the Czech Republic. In the United States, the song became symbolic after Hurricane Katrina, where it was dedicated to victims of the disaster and also regarded as a dedication to the victims of the September 11 attacks that occurred in 2001. The song became certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America.\n\nThe song's music video depicts a couple broken apart by the Iraq War, which was intended to convey the song's central theme of loss.\n\n\"Wake Me Up When September Ends\" was written by Green Day frontman Billie Joe Armstrong about his father, who died of cancer on September 1982 when Billie Joe was ten. Armstrong, at one point, dubbed the song the most autobiographical he had written to that point, considering it \"therapeutic\" but also difficult to perform.\n\nThe song is largely unrelated to the storyline that is central to \"American Idiot\".\n\nThe single peaked at number six in the United States, becoming Green Day's second top 10 single. It also peaked at number eight in Canada and the UK, while reaching number 13 in Australia. The song was certified Gold in the United Kingdom for sales of 400,000. The song ended the streak of Green Day's three consecutive number-one hits on the Modern Rock Tracks chart (\"American Idiot\", \"Boulevard of Broken Dreams\", and \"Holiday\"), but it peaked at number two on the chart, kept from number one by Gorillaz' \"Feel Good Inc.\" The song also made it to number two on the Adult Top 40 chart and the Mainstream Top 40 chart. This was the band's most successful song in the adult contemporary market, hitting number three on the Adult Contemporary Chart and their only song to appear on that specific chart other than \"Boulevard of Broken Dreams\".\n\n\"Wake Me Up When September Ends\" had sold 1,652,000 copies as of May 2010.\n\nRob Sheffield of \"Rolling Stone\" deemed the song a sequel to the group's 1997 single \"Good Riddance (Time of Your Life)\".\n\nThe song's music video was directed by Samuel Bayer, best known for his work with Nirvana and Metallica. Bayer wrote the treatment for the video, which he envisioned as a mini-movie. Bayer brought the idea of an Iraq War-themed video to the trio after interviewing soldiers who had signed up to fight after being persuaded by a television advertisement. The song's music video thus attempts to \"turn the machine on itself\" by acting as a commercial for \"free thought or peace.\" Although it was far from the song's literal meaning, Armstrong felt it appropriate considering the song's theme of loss. Bayer noted that he felt bored with predictable music videos, and wanted to produce a video that felt like a film. Consequently, he and a crew spent a month casting actors for the roles and conducted rehearsals, uncommon for music videos. The clip was filmed in Los Angeles in late March 2004.\n\nThe video focuses on a couple in love (played by Jamie Bell and Evan Rachel Wood). The boyfriend promises never to leave his girlfriend but they later argue when the boyfriend enlists in the United States Marine Corps. The boyfriend interprets his actions as a way to show her that he loves her so much that he would put his life on the line to keep her safe. However, the girlfriend is heartbroken, as he broke his vow to never leave her. The video then shows the boyfriend in battle in Iraq being ambushed by insurgents. This scene is intercut with scenes of the girlfriend tearfully mourning in a quiet field. The video ends on this juxtaposition, emphasizing the pain and heartache of losing loved ones due to the war.\n\nThe clip prompted criticism from conservative media pundits. On the subject of the clip being seen as exploitive of the war for entertainment purposes, Dirnt rejected this notion: \"Rock & roll \"should\" be dangerous. […] It should be striking and stir questions, and I think that that video, at the end of the day, comes down to that core emotion of loss.\" Bayer considered it his best production to that point, remarking, \"'September' is hands down the greatest thing I've ever done.\"\n\nThe video reached number one on \"Total Request Live\", and came in second for best video of the year in a 2005 Reader's Poll by \"Rolling Stone\".\n\n\"Wake Me Up When September Ends\" became closely associated with Hurricane Katrina, which struck the Gulf Coast of the United States on August 29, 2005. \"Wake Me Up When September Ends\" became symbolic in the aftermath; one online blogger paired the song with television coverage of the disaster, creating a viral video. Green Day performed the song days after the disaster on \"\", a benefit concert broadcast on MTV and its associated properties.\n\nA live version of the song, recorded on September 3, 2005 at Gillette Stadium in Foxborough, Massachusetts, was released soon after and dedicated to the hurricane's victims.\n\nThe song was performed live with U2 guitarist The Edge in the pregame show of the Monday Night Football game between the New Orleans Saints and the Atlanta Falcons; it was the first game played in the Superdome in New Orleans after the hurricane.\n\n7\" picture disc\n\n"}
{"id": "1240249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1240249", "title": "What's the Frequency, Kenneth?", "text": "What's the Frequency, Kenneth?\n\n\"What's the Frequency, Kenneth?\" is a song by the American alternative rock band R.E.M. from their 1994 album \"Monster\". It was the first single taken from the album, which was released three weeks later. It peaked at number 21 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, number 9 on the UK Singles Chart, and was the first song to debut at number one on Billboard Modern Rock Tracks. The song's title refers to an incident in New York City in 1986, when two then-unknown assailants attacked journalist Dan Rather, while repeating \"Kenneth, what is the frequency?\"\n\nIt was placed on R.E.M.'s compilation albums \"\" in 2003 and \"Part Lies, Part Heart, Part Truth, Part Garbage 1982–2011\" in 2011, the only track from \"Monster\" to feature on either. The song is one of the band's most-played songs at live gigs, and was played at every show on their 2008 \"Accelerate\" tour. A live version was released on \"R.E.M. Live\" in 2007.\n\nR.E.M. began work on \"Monster\" in August 1993 and \"What's the Frequency, Kenneth?\" was realized about two months later in October. This song was written and recorded at Kingsway Studio, New Orleans, where the band also wrote and recorded \"Tongue\" and \"Crush with Eyeliner\". Lead singer Michael Stipe has said in interviews that the lyrics are about the Generation X phenomenon in contemporary mass media, sung in character as an older critic whose information consists exclusively of media products.\n\nGuitarist Peter Buck explained why the song slows towards its conclusion in an interview with Guitar World magazine:\n\n\"What's The Frequency, Kenneth?\" made its first live television debut on November 12, 1994, for \"Saturday Night Live\", recorded at NBC Studios in New York City. The set on the show opened with \"What's the Frequency, Kenneth?\" and was followed by two other songs from the new album, \"Monster\", \"Bang and Blame\" and \"I Don't Sleep, I Dream\". The following year, on June 22, 1995, at Madison Square Garden in New York City, Dan Rather accompanied the band during a soundcheck performance of the song. The clip was shown prior to R.E.M.'s performance of \"Crush with Eyeliner\" on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\" the following night.\n\nThe music video was directed by Peter Care, who had previously worked with the band on music videos for \"Drive\" and \"Man on the Moon\" in 1992. It features the band playing along to the song under bright blue, red and yellow flashing lights. Michael Stipe appears timid behind the microphone until the first chorus, breaking into an energetic dance. Prominent in the guitar solo, Peter Buck uses Kurt Cobain's Jag-Stang that he received as a gift from Courtney Love after Cobain died; he plays it upside-down as Cobain was left-handed. Singer Stipe's newly shaven head and bassist Mike Mills's new look (long-hair and the use of Nudie suits) prominent on the 1995 \"Monster\" world tour, were given wide exposure in this video. The suit seen in the music video was in fact owned by musician Gram Parsons.\n\nThe DVD companion to \"\", entitled \"\" (featuring the promotional videos to most of the songs from \"In Time\") included the music video to \"What's the Frequency, Kenneth?\".\n\nAll songs written by Bill Berry, Peter Buck, Mike Mills, and Michael Stipe.\n\n\n\nThe live recordings of \"Monty Got a Raw Deal\", \"Everybody Hurts\" and \"Man on the Moon\" were recorded at the 40 Watt Club, Athens, Georgia on November 19, 1992. The performance—a benefit for Greenpeace—was recorded in a solar-powered mobile studio.\n\n"}
{"id": "6051174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6051174", "title": "Where Are They Now", "text": "Where Are They Now\n\n\"Where Are They Now\" is a song recorded by English Oi!/punk rock band Cock Sparrer in 1982, from their album \"Shock Troops\". The lyrics comment on the previous six years of the punk subculture. The song portrays the early years of the punk movement in a negative light, bemoaning the lack of follow-through by the leading figures. It also comments on the band members' own naivete, exhorting listeners to not make the same idealistic mistakes. Its lyrics mention several punk legends. In an interview with the fanzine \"Schizoipunx\" from 27 July 2006, Mickey Beaufoy of Cock Sparrer stated:\n\"Julie Burchill and Tony Parsons were rebellious \"punk\" journalists from the late-1970s. Joe is the late, great Joe Strummer, Jimmy is Jimmy Pursey and Rotten was Johnny Rotten from the Sex Pistols - and the song, which was written in 1982 was about what we saw as the quiet death of Punk - as none of these people were active then - but I am glad to say that the scene has recovered since then - but people still love that song so we keep it in the set as a warning that we have to keep at it or all this great music could disappear.\" The lyrics \"Rotten on the telly, showing what a few choice words can do\" refer to the Sex Pistols' lead singer Johnny Rotten and the \"Grundy incident,\" in which Rotten and other Sex Pistols swore on live television, sending Britain into an uproar.\n\nThe song has been covered and recorded by Swingin' Utters, Strike Anywhere, Roger Miret And The Disasters and also, in their own language, the Spanish band La Polla Records, the German band Beck's Pistols and Polish band The Analogs. It also appears on the German punk band Die Toten Hosen's cover album Learning English Lesson 2 (2017), with Colin McFaull participating.\n\n"}
{"id": "28107310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28107310", "title": "White Night festivals", "text": "White Night festivals\n\nThe White Nights are a kind of all-night arts festival held in many cities in the summer. The original festival is the White Nights Festival held in Saint Petersburg, Russia. The \"white nights\" is the name given in areas of high latitude to the weeks around the summer solstice in June during which sunsets are late, sunrises are early and darkness is never complete. In Saint Petersburg, the Sun does not set until after 10 p.m., and the twilight lasts almost all night.\n\nThe White Nights Festival in Saint Petersburg is famous for spectacular fireworks and Scarlet Sails, a massive show celebrating the end of school year. Other festivals following this lead have arisen, using names such as White Night, Light Nights or Nuit Blanche, see that article for examples around the world.\n\nSome cities use the French phrase \"Nuit blanche\" (or \"Nuits blanches\", if the event is spread over more than one night). Some use the same words in their language: White Nights, \"La Notte Bianca\" (Italian), \"La Noche en Blanco\" (Spanish), \"Noaptea alba\" (Romanian), \"Nata e Bardhe\" (Albanian), \"Baltā Nakts\" in Latvian. Others invent their own names, such as \"Lejl Imdawwal\" (\"Lit Night\") in Maltese, \"Virada Cultural\" in São Paulo, \"Taiteiden yö\" (\"Night of the arts\") in Finland, and \"Kulturnatten\" (\"Night of Culture\") in Copenhagen.\n\nThe British festivals are called \"Light night\" and began in Leeds, England in 2005 as part of the launch of the region-wide Illuminate Cultural Festival. In Leeds in October 2005, these 'unusual cultural events' included a string quartet playing at the top of the Town Hall clock tower, a tour round a pitch black church with only a torch and a sinister audio-guide that could not be trusted, and a 'Treasure Hunt' from the Institute for Crazy Dancing. The Treasure Hunt involved 200 audience members being led across the city and becoming a show in their own right, collecting white boiler suits and umbrellas en route, and dancing up and down Briggate, the main shopping street, with three shire horses, an ice cream van and the bagpipes of Leeds Pipe Band.\n\nLeeds was joined by Bradford, Sheffield, York and Hull for Light Night 2006. Several other major cities across the country including Birmingham hosted Light Night events in 2008. This has spread even further in 2009 and includes Belfast, Liverpool and Nottingham. Brighton and Hove launched an official partner event 'White Night' in 2008. Produced by Brighton and Hove Arts Commission, the event is partnered with the annual event in Amiens and sees the cities' arts venues, theatres, galleries and outdoor spaces play host to a wide selection of arts activities, shows, installations, tours and trails. In 2009, a British network of Light Night towns and cities was established.\n\nThe summer solstice in Iceland is celebrated on the 24th of June, on the day of St. John the Baptist, when only three hours of modest darkness are experienced in the region of Reykjavík. It is called Jónsmessa, and it is celebrated in small groups of family or friends around bonfires. It is however not as popular as it was before, and most people don't take any part of it, although some people hold on to it. Icelandic folk stories say that on this day all of nature is thought to work in an unusual way, with rocks and herbs gaining magical powers, cows gaining the ability to speak, seals take on human form, and elves emerge from the netherworld. It is also less commonly known as the Viking New Year.\n\nIn 2005, Rome's \"Notte Bianca\" (English: White Night) was held in mid-September, and the guest star was Roberto Benigni. There were similar initiatives in other cities as well. In Naples it first took place at the end of October 2005 with numerous concerts (Baglioni, Pino Daniele, 99 Posse, Almamegretta, Stadio) and theatrical and cultural events. The attendance was twice the population of Naples itself. Other Italian \"Notti Bianche\" took place in Genoa, Turin, Reggio Calabria, and Catanzaro.\n\n2006 also saw the first \"Lejl Imdawwal\" (Lit Night) in Malta, in the capital city of Valletta. Throughout the fortified city, shops remained open. The Co-Cathedral of St. John was open for display.\n\nThe first city outside of Russia to host such a festival was apparently Paris, which has had its famous \"Nuit Blanche\" festival since 2001, when it was started by mayor Bertrand Delanoë.\n\nIn Finland a Night of the Arts (Finnish: Taiteiden yö, Swedish: Konstens natt) is an annual event held in several major cities in late August. First Night of the Arts was held in 1989 in Helsinki.\n\nMany other cities have followed. \n\nSlovakia\n\nKošice\n\nThe weekend at the break of September and October brings two big events to Košice, including international multi-genre festival White Night. The event focusing mainly on modern visual art – brought outside the traditional venues and into the streets of the eastern-Slovak metropolis.\n\nFollowing on from the success of the neighbouring White Night Melbourne, the regional Victorian city of Ballarat held its inaugural White Night festival on March 4, 2017. This marked the first time that a White Night event took place in Regional Australia, and is one of the first White Nights to take place in a regional city globe-wide. The festival attracted an estimated 40,000 people. Program highlights included Carla O'Brien's \"Neon Angel Wings\" and \"More than 1 Nation\", a projection art project featuring indigenous art on the former Bank of NSW building. White Night Ballarat runs from 7pm to 7am.\n\nMelbourne, Australia, held its inaugural White Night festival on 23 February 2013. An estimated crowd of more than 300,000 people attended. The second, on 22 February 2014 drew an estimated 500,000 people. The third White Night in 2015, expanded the festival to more venues and locations, including Scots' Church where digital artist Alinta Krauth debuted her Colonise 3-D projection artwork exploring Australia's relationship with bats, and again in 2016 with her Cartology Apology, called one of the \"gems of the night\". Open from 7pm to 7am the following morning, the event featured music, dance, visual display, light show, and a variety of buskers. Art institutions such as the National Gallery of Victoria and the Australian Centre for the Moving Image featured free exhibitions and films for the public to attend. The fourth White Night, held on 20 February 2016 attracted an estimated 580,000 people. The 2017 event took place on 18 February whilst the 2018 event took place on the 17 February and attracted more than 600.000 people.\n\nTel Aviv's first \"Layla Lavan\" (Hebrew for \"White Night\") festival was held in 2003, to mark UNESCO's awarding of World Heritage status to the White City, Tel Aviv's internationally renowned collection of over 4,000 Bauhaus or International-style buildings constructed in the 1930s by German Jewish architects who immigrated to the British Mandate of Palestine after the rise of the Nazis. A White Nights Festival seemed an appropriate way to celebrate the White City. Tel Aviv's reputation as a party city made the festival an annual event, and municipal ordinances now allow businesses to remain open all night on the last Thursday in June.\n\nSeptember 15, 2012 saw the inaugural Nuit Blanche take place in the western Canadian city of Calgary, Alberta. It was held in the downtown Olympic Plaza (Calgary). Based on the Toronto and Montreal models of the festival, and emphasizing the emergence of a prominent arts and cultural community in the city, the event drew over 10,000 visitors on limited resources. The 2012 edition featured 5 time-based performance art events. In 2014, the city's second Nuit Blanche Calgary took place on September 20, and featured 12 national and international artists showcasing various performance art events and creative installations.\n\nIn 2007, Looptopia was held in Chicago in May, the first event of its type held in the United States.\n\nThe inaugural Nocturne Festival took place in Halifax, Nova Scotia in 2008. It has since been held every year on the first Saturday after Canadian Thanksgiving. The festival is centred on Downtown Halifax and Spring Garden but also extends to the nearby North End. Numerous institutions and venues participate, including NSCAD University, The Khyber, Dalhousie University, the Art Gallery of Nova Scotia, the Halifax Central Library, as well as private galleries and businesses. More than 25,000 attended in 2014.\n\nStarted in 2003, Montreal was the first Canadian city to adopt the Nuit blanche concept. The event is the finale of the week-long Montreal High Lights Festival.\n\nNuit Blanche Ottawa Gatineau (NBOG) is an all-night celebration of art and culture that brings people into the streets and gets them involved with local artists, organizations and businesses. Held in late September in downtown Ottawa.\n\nLuminaria is San Antonio’s adaptation of “White Nights”, originally conceived in Paris, France in 2002, in an attempt to bring contemporary art to the masses in public spaces. “White Nights” is a 12-hour event with a goal of making contemporary art accessible to large audiences, while inspiring dialogue and engaging the public to examine its significance and impact on public space. It is a free event that encourages celebration and community engagement. For one night, spaces are transformed into temporary exhibitions. Luminaria is celebrating its ninth year (2008-2016) as a part of this international movement.\n\nIn 2006, Nuit Blanche was launched in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Christophe Girard, Deputy Mayor of Paris, who instituted the Parisian Nuit Blanche in 2002, traveled there to help launch the event, praising its citizens for their love of \"the magic and the mysteries of the night\". Attendance at this inaugural event was estimated by Toronto City Hall to have been 425,000 people; the following year almost doubled that, attracting 800,000 revelers. In 2015, attendance was over one million, including 205,000 from outside of the city.\n\nIn 2008, Lima hosted a \"Noche en Blanco\" in mid-May, within the framework of cultural activities of the fifth Latin America, the Caribbean and the European Union Summit. The capital of South Korea threw its first nocturnal cultural festival, Seoul Open Night, in August that year, estimating a draw of about 100,000 citizens at six downtown districts. Santa Monica, California, hosted its first biannual all-night festival under the name of Glow, inspired by Nuit Blanche, on July 19 on the famous Santa Monica Pier, on the beach north and south of the Pier and in the nearby Palisades Park. Over 200,000 people attended and enjoyed 27 original commissioned artworks with over 100 participating artists.\n\n"}
{"id": "3432446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3432446", "title": "Wine fraud", "text": "Wine fraud\n\nWine fraud relates to the commercial aspects of wine. The most prevalent type of fraud is one where wines are adulterated, usually with the addition of cheaper products (e.g. juices) and sometimes with harmful chemicals and sweeteners (compensating for colour or flavour). \n\nCounterfeiting and the relabelling of inferior and cheaper wines to more expensive brands is another common type of wine fraud.\n\nA third category of wine fraud relates to the investment wine industry. An example of this is when wines are offered to investors at excessively high prices by a company who then go into planned liquidation. In some cases the wine is never bought for the investor. Losses in the UK have been high, prompting the Department of Trade and Industry and Police to act. In the US, investors have been duped by fraudulent investment wine firms. Independent guidelines to potential wine investors are now available.\n\nIn wine production, as wine is technically defined as fermented grape juice, the term \"wine fraud\" can be used to describe the adulteration of wine by substances that are not related to grapes. In the retailing of wine, as wine is comparable with any other commodity, the term \"wine fraud\" can be used to describe the mis-selling of wine (either as an investment or in its deceitful misrepresentation) in general.\n\nFraud in wine production refers to the use of additives in order to deceive. This may include colouring agents such as elderberry juice, and flavourings such as cinnamon at best, or less desirable additives at worst. Some varieties of wine have sought after characteristics. For example some wines have a deep, dark color and flavor notes of spices due to the presence of various phenolic compounds found in the skin of the grapes. Fraudsters will use additives to artificially create these characteristics when they are lacking. Fraud in the selling of wine, has seen much attention focused on label fraud and the investment wine market. Counterfeit labelling of rare, expensive, and cult wines, and unregulated investment wine firms characterise this type of fraud. \"Wine Spectator\" noted as much as 5% of the wine sold in secondary markets could be counterfeit and the DTI (UK) believes losses by investors to rogue wine investment firms amount to hundreds of millions of pounds.\n\nFor as long as wine has been made, it has been manipulated, adulterated, and counterfeited. In ancient Rome, Pliny the Elder complained about the abundance of fraudulent Roman wine which was so great that even the nobility could not be assured that the wine they were pouring on their table was genuine. For the poor and middle class of Rome, local bar establishments seemed to have an unlimited supply of the prestigious Falernian wine for unusually low prices.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, wines from questionable origins were often passed off as wines from more prestigious regions. In London, local authorities established laws for tavern owners prohibiting French, Spanish, and German wines from being cellared together so as to prevent the potential for mixing the wines or falsely representing them to the consumer. If a producer or merchant was found selling fraudulent or \"corrupt wine\", they were forced to drink all of it. In medieval Germany, the penalty for selling fraudulent wine ranged from branding to beating to death by hanging.\n\nDuring the Age of Enlightenment, advancements in science ushered in a new occupation of \"wine doctors\" who could fashion examples of wines from obscure items and chemicals. Writers like Joseph Addison wrote of this \"fraternity of chymical operators (sic)\" who would use apples to make Champagne and sloe to make Bordeaux and then sell these wines fraudulently on the market. Following the Phylloxera epidemic, when true wine was scarce, wine fraud rose. Some merchants would take dried raisins grown from other species of grapevines and make wine that they passed off as being from a more prestigious provenance such as the more well known wines from France or Italy.\n\nIn the early 19th century, several European writers wrote about the risk and prevalence of wine fraud. In 1820, German chemist Friedrich Accum noted that wine was one of the commodities most at risk for being fraudulently manipulated and misrepresented. In 1833, the British wine writer Cyrus Redding echoed the alarm over the unchecked operations of these \"wine doctors\". Eventually the concern over wine fraud grew enough that provisions against the adulteration and misrepresentation of wine was included in British Parliament's Adulteration of Food and Drink Act 1860. Several European governments also enacted legislation defining what exactly constitutes \"wine\" so as to distinguish authentic winemaking from the workings of these wine counterfeiters. The French government first legally defined wine as the product of fermented grape juice in 1889, followed by the German government in 1892 (later expanded in 1909) and the Italian government in 1904.\n\nFraud of a different nature occurred during prohibition in the United States, when wine production was illegal, as grape merchants would sell \"bricks\" of grape concentrate across the United States along with a packet of dried yeast. The bricks would come with a \"warning label\" cautioning people not to mix the contents of the brick, yeast, water, and sugar in a pot and then seal such pot for seven days, or else \"an illegal alcoholic beverage will result\".\n\nThe practice of adding grape spirits to wine was once considered manipulative and fraudulent but today is accepted practice for the production of all fortified wines, like Port.\n\nOver the years, winemaking techniques have evolved. The first, primitive \"natural wine\" or \"authentic wine\" was most likely the result of crushed grapes being forgotten while stored in a container. The process of allowing wild yeast found on the surface of the grape conduct fermentation in an uncontrolled environment creates a very crude style of wine that may not be palatable to many people. Hence the development of various techniques and practices designed to improve the quality of the wine but which could be viewed as \"manipulating\" or \"adulterating\" the wine from its natural or \"authentic state\". At various points in history, these techniques may be considered \"too much\" manipulation, more than what a consumer would likely expect, and thus labeled as \"fraud\". However as these techniques became more common place in the wine industry, they gained an air of acceptability and eventually became just another tool in the winemaker's tool box to help craft good-quality wine.\n\nMost techniques of manipulation arose from need. Early wine had many wine faults that caused a wine to spoil quickly. Classical writings from the Greeks and Romans detailed recipes that could cure \"sick wines\". These include adding various items like milk, ground mustard, ashes, nettles, and lead. Another example of early \"manipulation\" that became accepted, common practice was the process of adding grape spirit to wine made in the Douro region of Portugal. This process of fortification gave the wine chemical stability for long sea voyages and, when added during the fermentation process, left the wine with a balance of residual sugar and alcohol content that gave the wine a unique taste. This style of wine became very popular on the world wine market. Today the accepted way to make Port is to \"manipulate\" it by adding brandy during the fermentation process.\n\nOther winemaking techniques that have been at various times considered fraudulent or too manipulative of the wine include chaptalization, fermenting and aging in oak barrels, using oak chips, stirring lees, racking, clarification and filtration, reverse osmosis, cold maceration, the use of cultured instead of wild yeast, cryo-extraction, micro-oxygenation, and the addition of enzymes, anti-oxidant agents, acids or other sugars that may be used to \"balance\" the wine.\n\nWhile some winemaking techniques once considered fraudulent are now generally accepted, a few practices have gone in the opposite direction. One of the most controversial is adding water to wine in a technique known today as humidification. Master of wine Jancis Robinson calls the act of adding water to \"stretch out\" or dilute wine \"possibly the oldest form of wine fraud in the book.\" There is a long history of adding water to dilute wine in order to make it more palatable. The ancient Greeks thought it was \"barbaric\" to drink undiluted wine. They further believed that undiluted wine was unhealthy and that the Spartan king Cleomenes I was once driven insane after drinking wine that was not diluted with water. Today, few consumers dilute their wine as the Greeks did, but the use of water during the winemaking process is still prevalent.\n\nToday water is used to help balance extremely ripe grapes that would have a concentration of sugars and phenolic compounds. Modern winemaking has begun to promote higher levels of ripeness and longer \"hang time\" on the vine before harvesting. This increased emphasis on ripeness has had the effect of producing wines with higher alcohol levels (often over 15%). In many countries, such high alcohol levels qualify the wines for higher levels of duties and taxes. Adding water to grape must can dilute the wine to such a degree that the overall alcohol by volume drops below the percentage threshold for these higher taxes. The deliberate act of diluting a wine with water in order to pay lower duties and taxes is illegal in several countries.\n\nThe gray area between accepted practice and fraud is where water is added to the winemaking process as a means of \"quality preservation\". Water is often used during the winemaking process to help pump grapes through equipment and to \"rehydrate\" the grapes that have begun to shrivel from the extended hang time. This rehydration is used to help balance the wine and, it is hoped, to prevent \"dried fruit\" flavors that may be unpalatable to the consumer. In the United States, the California Wine Institute has developed guidelines that allow for the addition of a certain amount of water to compensate for the loss of natural water in the vineyard from dehydration. The addition of water has been argued by its proponents as necessary to prevent stuck fermentations. Despite being allowed limited legal use, the practice of adding water to wine is still shrouded in controversy, and few winemakers willingly admit to it. A \"code word\" for the practice in the wine industry is adding \"Jesus units\" in a play on words about the Biblical story of the miracle performed at the Marriage at Cana where Jesus turned water into wine.\n\nOne form of fraud involves affixing counterfeit labels of expensive wines to bottles of less expensive wine. This practice became particularly prominent following the devastation of the phylloxera epidemic in the 19th century when the supply of expensive premium wine was scarce. At first, the label fraud mostly consisted of taking a wine from a region of lesser acclaim (such as Southwest France or Calabria in Italy) and then labeling the wine as if it came from more prestigious regions such as Bordeaux or Tuscany. To counter this type of fraud, governments developed extensive appellation systems and Protected Designation of Origin or (PDOs) that attempted to regulate wines labeled as coming from particular wine regions. Early attempts to protect the name of a wine region led to government declaration on the boundaries and wine permitted to carry the names of Chianti, Oporto and Tokaji. Today most major European wine producing countries have some appellation system of protected origins. The most well known systems include the \"Appellation d'origine contrôlée\" (AOC) used in France, the \"Denominazione di origine controllata\" (DOC) used in Italy, the \"Denominação de Origem Controlada\" (DOC) used in Portugal, and the \"Denominación de Origen\" (DO) system used in Spain. Producers who are registered in each appellation must abide by the appellation's rules, including exact percentage of grapes (often 100%) that must come from that region. Producers who fraudulently use grapes outside the region they are proclaiming on their wine labels can be caught by the appellation's authorities.\n\nAs it became more difficult to fraudulently label wines with the wrong provenance, label fraud soon evolved to the pilfering of the identities of wine estates themselves. Merchants would take the bottles of lesser priced wines and label them with the names of the finest classified Bordeaux estates or Grand crus of Burgundy. Label fraud, to be done well, requires bottles, corks, and packaging to be similarly manipulated. Reporter \"disclosed that many famous Champagne houses, when short on stock, bought bottled but unlabeled wine from cooperatives or one of the big private-label producers in the region, then sold it as their own\". A high-profile instance of alleged wine fraud was disclosed in early 2007, when it was reported that the Federal Bureau of Investigation had opened an investigation into the counterfeiting of old and rare vintages.\n\nOne of the most famous, alleged purveyors of label fraud is wine collector Hardy Rodenstock. In the 1980s and 1990s, Rodenstock hosted a series of high-profile wine tasting events of old and rare wines from his collection, including many from the 18th and 19th centuries. He invited to these tastings dignitaries, celebrities and internationally acclaimed wine writers and critics such as Jancis Robinson, Robert M. Parker, Jr. and Michael Broadbent who at the time was a director at the London auction house Christie's and considered one of the world's foremost authorities on rare wine. At one such tasting, Rodenstock produced 125 vintages of Château d'Yquem, including a very rare bottle from the 1784 vintage. In addition to holding these extravagant tastings, Rodenstock also sold many bottles from his collection at auction houses, which supposedly regularly inspect and research wines for authenticity. One such lot that Rodenstock sold were the rare \"Jefferson bottles\", reportedly rare Bordeaux wines bottled for the American president, Thomas Jefferson. American businessman Bill Koch bought four of these Jefferson bottles which were later determined to be fake - the engravings on the bottle that purportedly linked them to Jefferson were determined to have been done with a high-speed electric drill similar to a dentist's drill; technology that did not exist until modern times. This revelation cast a net of suspicion on the authenticity of all the rare bottles that Rodenstock served at his tastings and sold at auctions.\n\nAnother well-publicized example of label fraud is the case of Rudy Kurniawan; he was arrested on March 8, 2012 and indicted for fraud. Allegedly, Kurniwan was buying large stocks of negociant Burgundy and re-labeling them as more expensive wines, such as Domaine de la Romanée-Conti. He famously consigned several lots of Clos St. Denis from Domaine Ponsot from vintages long prior to any recorded production of Ponsot wines from that vineyard; the auction lots were withdrawn prior to bidding.\n\nIn 2002, bottles of the weaker 1991 vintage of Château Lafite Rothschild were relabeled and sold as the acclaimed 1982 vintage in China. In 2000, Italian authorities uncovered a warehouse with nearly twenty thousand bottles of fake \"Super Tuscan\" 1995 Sassicaia and arrested a number of people including the group's salesperson, who was selling the fake wine out of the back of a Peugeot hatchback.\n\nFederal governments and individual producers have taken many efforts in order to curb the prevalence of wine fraud. One of the earliest such preventive measures was the founding of the \"Service de la Répression des Fraudes\" by the French government to detect and stamp out fraud among France's AOC wines.\nSome major producers are taking actions to prevent fraud of future vintages including marking bottles with engraved serial numbers on the glass and taking more control of the distribution process of their wines. However, for older vintages, the threat of fraud persists, although new techniques, like stable isotope analysis and isoscapes are likely to grow in importance.\n\nSome practices of manipulation and adulteration have gone through stages of being considered fraudulent and later accepted as common practice. One of these is the practice of blending other grape varieties in order to add a characteristic that is lacking in the original wine. This most often occurred in the case of a wine lacking color. A wine with a deep dark color is often associated with being of a higher quality, so blending a darker color variety (or a teinturier) into a lighter wine could enhance the marketability of the wine. Today the practice of blending grape varieties together is commonly accepted (such as blending Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot), except where such blending is against the regulation of a particular appellation (such as the controversy over the \"Brunellopoli\" scandal in Brunello di Montalcino).\n\nThe gray area comes when inferior wine is being blended in with more expensive, higher quality wine in order to increase the total quantity of wine available to be sold at higher prices. This is a process known as \"stretching\" or \"cutting in\" the wine. During the 18th century, Bordeaux wine producers would often import wine from Spain, Rhone or the Languedoc to blend and stretch out their wine which they sold to the English as claret. While this practice would be frowned upon today by Bordeaux authorities, the French wine writer André Jullien noted that some merchants believed this practice was necessary in order for the claret to be agreeable with English tastes—a practice he describes as \"travail à l'anglaise\".\n\nReporter Doutrelant reported the comments of \"a government inspector on the illegal use of sugar to boost the alcoholic content of Beaujolais-Villages: 'If the law had been enforced in 1973 and 1974, at least a thousand producers would have been put out of business'\". The same writer explained how growers \"planted Mourvèdre and Syrah, two low-yield grapes that give the wine finesse, strictly for the benefit of the government inspectors. Then, when the inspectors left, they grafted cheap, high-yield vines, Grenache and Carignan, back onto the vines\".\n\nIn March 2008, allegations were made against producers of Brunello di Montalcino that there were illegally blended other types of grape varieties into wine stipulated to be of 100% Sangiovese, allegedly to inflate production and increase profit, in a scandal termed \"Brunellopoli\".\n\nMany Burgundy wine shippers have been found guilty of blending inexpensive wine with red Burgundies and exporting them at exorbitant prices. The Vins Georges Duboeuf company was found guilty and fined in 2006 for illegally mixing Gamay from Beaujolais Villages with Beaujolais Cru grapes from Brouilly, and Moulin-à-Vent in the 2005 vintage. The issue was confined to a small percentage of the wine produced by Duboeuf; the affected wines that were wrongly labeled as Cru Beaujolais were declassified to Beaujolais Villages.\n\nOne of the most dangerous forms of wine fraud is when producers add hazardous materials such as lead(II) acetate (\"sugar of lead\"), diethylene glycol, and methanol to wine in order to increase sweetness. Some chemicals may be used to mask other wine faults and unpleasant aroma. Government authorities, such as the European Union and the American Food and Drug Administration, across the globe have set up laws and regulations of acceptable chemicals that can be added to wine in order to avoid some of the scandals that have plagued certain wine producing countries in the 20th century.\n\nIn 1985, diethylene glycol was added as an adulterant by some Austrian producers of white wines to make them sweeter and upgrade the dry wines to sweet wines; production of sweet wines is expensive and addition of sugar is easy to detect. In 1986, twenty-three people died because a fraudulent winemaker in Italy blended toxic methyl alcohol into his low-alcohol wine to increase its alcohol content. Another 15 Italian people went blind weeks after drinking the tainted wine. Odore Barbera and Fraris Dolcetto del Piedmonte were among the wine labels involved in the scandal.\n\n"}
