{"id": "22603463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22603463", "title": "2009 flu pandemic in Australia", "text": "2009 flu pandemic in Australia\n\nAs at 18 December 2009, Australia had 37,537 confirmed cases of H1N1 Influenza 2009 (Human Swine Influenza) and 191 deaths reported by Department of Health but only 77 deaths reported by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. The actual numbers are much larger, as only serious cases are being tested and treated. Suspected cases have not been reported by the Department of Health and Ageing since 18 May 2009 because they are changing too quickly to report. As many as 1600 Australians may have died as a result of this virus. On 23 May The federal government classified the outbreak as CONTAIN phase except in Victoria where it was escalated to the SUSTAIN phase on 3 June. This gives government authorities permission to close schools to slow the spread of the disease. On 17 June 2009 the Department of Health and Ageing introduced a new phase called PROTECT. This modified the response to focus on people with high risk of complications from the disease. Testing at airports is to be discontinued. The national stockpile of antiviral drugs will no longer be made available to people with the flu unless there are more than mild symptoms or a high risk of dying.\n\nAustralia has a stockpile of 8.7 million doses of Tamiflu and Relenza. Under the earlier DELAY and CONTAIN phases Airlines were required to report passengers with influenza symptoms, and thermal imaging and nurses were deployed at international airports. Passengers arriving were required to fill in a health declaration card.\n\nA large scale immunization effort against swine flu started on Monday 28 September 2009.\n\nThere are on average 2,500-3,000 deaths every year as a result of seasonal influenza in Australia. An estimated 1 billion are infected seasonally, throughout the world. In Australia, 37,537 swine flu tests have given positive results and there have been 191 confirmed deaths of people infected with swine flu as of 18 December 2009.\n\nOn 9 May 2009, Australia confirmed its first case of swine flu in a 33-year-old woman, when she touched down from a flight from Los Angeles to Brisbane. Although it was confirmed to be not infectious (coming out as a \"weak but positive result\"), family members and people who were sitting close to her during the flight have been contacted and urged to seek immediate medical attention if they began to show flu-like symptoms. On 24 May Queensland confirmed its second case. 41 deaths have been recorded in Queensland. The first person to die in Queensland was a 38-year-old woman who died on 15 July at the Mater Hospital Pimlico.\n\nIn Victoria there have been 2,440 cases, including 24 deaths. An 11-year-old boy, and later his 2 brothers, were confirmed on 20 May to carry the virus. Victorian health authorities closed Clifton Hill Primary School for two days on 21 May, initially, after the three brothers returned to the school from a trip to Disneyland. A further case delayed the reopening of the school until Thursday 28 May 2009. On 23 May about 22 year-nine students of Mill Park Secondary College were given anti-viral Tamiflu after one of their classmates was diagnosed with swine flu, the same happened for students in year 9 at the University High School in Parkville and also for the Melton campus of Mowbray College after a year 10 student contracted the virus . A 35-year-old man from Colac died on 20 June 2009 at Maroondah Hospital after going to Colac Hospital the previous day. On 23 June 2009, the second swine flu related death in Victoria was reported, in that of a 50-year-old woman at the Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre. A third death was reported on 25 June. Two more death were reported on the weekend of 27 and 28 June. Two more deaths were reported on 1 July, including a 3 year old. Four more deaths were recorded on 8 July.\n\nThe SUSTAIN phase in Victoria means that less effort will be given to tracing and testing, as there would be insufficient resources available to do this. Antiviral drugs in this phase are only available to confirmed cases or their immediate contacts.\n\nIn New South Wales there have been 51 deaths. The first confirmed death in New South Wales occurred on 29 June and a second man died on 3 July.\n\nSouth Australia has recorded 28 deaths, plus a 'clinical positive' where the test was inconclusive and, after swine-flu-like symptoms were reported, Tamiflu was administered, thus making a future positive confirmation unlikely. Adelaide high schools Eynesbury Senior College and Blackfriars Priory School closed for a week. The first confirmed death from swine flu in Australia was a 26-year-old Aboriginal man from Kiwirrkurra Community in the Western Desert of Western Australia who died in Royal Adelaide Hospital on 19 June.\n\nThe Australian Capital Territory has recorded two deaths and 920 confirmed cases by 28 August 2009. Two of the earliest casualties contracted the disease while on the Pacific Dawn cruise ship. The first death in the ACT occurred on 28 July 2009.\n\nDuring the last week of July 2009, Radford College's year 12 cohort was asked to stay home, after a spike of influenza through the year.\n\nThere have been 27 confirmed deaths in Western Australia. The first person to die in the state was a 26-year-old woman who died on 26 June 2009. A 26-year-old Western Australian man died in Adelaide on 19 June.\n\nTasmania has recorded seven deaths. Public health authorities expected up to 200,000 Tasmanians could catch swine flu in the three months incoming from June. The first person to die in Tasmania was an 85-year-old woman who died in Royal Hobart Hospital on 5 July.\n\nThe Northern Territory confirmed the first infection of a person on 30 May 2009. Six people have died in the territory so far. The first person in the Territory to die from the current epidemic was a man in his early 50s who died at the Royal Darwin Hospital on 6 July.\n\nThe swine flu has also affected some Australians internationally:\n\nOn 25 May, about 3 hours after going off the boat, a swine flu scare was reported on board. This shock has caused a spark in the number of cases, going up much more rapidly than before, and somehow causing \"Case 1\" (see above). The number of cases was around 20 before the scare, and due to this, the amount of cases have risen well over 15,000. This cruise ship caused almost half of the cases in SA, caused the WA case, and the TAS case. Also it caused a scare in New Caledonia.\n\nBorders have not been closed, and no restrictions have been placed on travel. Travel to countries with confirmed cases of swine flu have not been reclassed to reconsider, as at 1 May 2009.\n\nStarting from 30 April thermal imaging was applied to passenger arrivals at international airports and arriving passengers were required to fill in a card. Customs officers checked aeroplane cabins prior to disembarkation of passengers looking for people with flu symptoms.\n\nOn 23 May the government upgraded the flu alert level from \"delay\" to \"contain\", giving authorities in all states the option to close schools if students were at risk. All states and territories have ordered students returning from countries where flu was widespread (Canada, Japan, Mexico, Panama and United States) not to return to school for a week after entering Australia. States outside Victoria decided to prevent students returning to school for a week if they have visited Victoria.\n\nCSL Limited started to produce a vaccine to immunize against swine flu, and received an order from the Australian Government for ten million doses. The inoculations are expected to be ready around the end of July 2009.\n\nIn Melbourne, seven special clinics for influenza opened on 29 May.\n\nThere are now additional measures to control the flu outbreak encouraging students returning from Victoria to stay away from school and quarantine themselves for a period of up to seven days.\n\nThe Australian Government had a stockpile of 40 million surgical grade face masks. However stocks of face masks in pharmacies were depleted due to personal purchases. The World Health Organization Influenza Centre in North Melbourne was attempting to develop a vaccine for swine flu, by growing the live virus as found in California, in chicken embryos. The first one-litre batch of vaccine was announced to be ready on 29 June 2009 by the University of Queensland, but would not be available for use until it was registered as safe with the regulatory authority.\n\nA Commonwealth Health hotline for Swine Influenza was set up on Australian phone number 1802007 by the Department of Health and Ageing. The Australian Government set up a health emergency web site. Daily tallies of suspected cases were given.\n\nThe Tasmanian Government set up a \"Tasmanian Action Plan for Human Influenza Pandemic\".\n\nThe Queensland Government had an action plan prepared in 2008 and a business continuity plan in 2006. The Australian Capital Territory Chief Medical Officer, Dr Charles Guest, claimed that procedures and systems were very good to detect and respond to the disease outbreak. South Australia has nominated eight hospitals to handle flu: Royal Adelaide, Flinders Medical Centre or Women's and Children's Hospital, Berri, Mount Gambier, Port Lincoln, Whyalla or Port Augusta. The Victorian Government Department of Human Services had a nurse on call to answer questions on the topic.\n\nThe Tasmanian government published a warning poster and a series of recommendations to health professionals on protective equipment, hand washing and sterilisation.\n\nIn a 2011 article in the Emerging Health Threats Journal, Peter Collignon commented that the media frequently compared the outbreaks to the 1918 flu pandemic that infected 500 million people and killed tens of millions. Widespread public fear of a similar number of deaths lead to \"Emergency Departments and doctor surgeries being overwhelmed\" with requests for antiviral drugs, jeopardising the supply for the highest risk patients.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52101493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52101493", "title": "Alcohol in Malaysia", "text": "Alcohol in Malaysia\n\nAlcohol in Malaysia refers to the consumption, industry and laws of alcohol in the Southeast Asian country of Malaysia. Although Malaysia is a Muslim majority country, the country permits the selling of alcohol to non-Muslims. There are no nationwide alcohol bans being enforced in the country, with the exception of Kelantan and Terengganu which is only for Muslims. The Islamic party there respect the rights of non-Muslims with non-Muslim establishments -like Chinese restaurants and grocery shops- being excluded from such bans. The federal territory of Kuala Lumpur has the highest alcohol consumption in the country, followed by the states of Sarawak in second place and Sabah in third place.\n\nIn 2016, based on a report released by International Organisation of Good Templars (IOGT), Malaysia has the third highest tax on alcohol worldwide at 15%, behind Norway and Singapore which are predicted to keep increasing. The country has the 10th largest population of alcohol users worldwide, with an annual spending of RM2 billion on alcoholic drinks. Prior to the Trans-Pacific Partnership, Malaysia together with Vietnam plans to drop import tariffs on beer, whiskey and other alcoholic drinks.\n\nThe history of local alcoholic drinks in the country are mostly concentrated in the island of Borneo as the indigenous people in the island have been traditionally drinking a home-made rice wine called tuak and tapai in their communal gatherings and harvest festivals of Gawai Dayak and Kaamatan. The consumption in the Malay Peninsula meanwhile are less since the Malay sultanates there adheres to Islamic principles regarding to alcohol. But following the arrival of alcoholic drinks from the Western world to Malay Archipelago in the 17th century when European colonial merchants began to come in contact with the people in the archipelago, some local Malay population start to taste wine brought by the Portuguese and Dutch and this was continued until the arrival of British until the 19th and 20th centuries. The arrival of Indian labours in British plantations during the colonial times marks the introduction of \"toddy\" production by the Indian community, as well with the arrival of Chinese labourers on British mines who produce and introduce their own alcoholic drink such as \"samsu\" to the local community. The British also brought their own drinking traditions with the introduction of beer and stout. In the 1930, the first brewery was established in neighbouring British Singapore.\n\nSince the British colonial times, Tiger Beer was the first commercial beer brewed in 1932 by Malayan Breweries Limited, a Singapore-based brewery which was formed from a merger between Heineken and Fraser and Neave (F&N). The beginning of alcohol productions in Malaysia start in 1968, when two leading breweries of Guinness and Malayan Breweries merged to form a new company known as Guinness Anchor Berhad. In 1970, Carlsberg established its first brewery outside Kuala Lumpur. Both are since the only legal commercial breweries in Malaysia, which account for 95% of the total beer and stout volume in the country market. In 2007, another two breweries known as Napex and Jaz brewed beer for pubs in the country, but both have since ceased from operation. Beside local productions, many alcoholic drinks in the country are also imported from neighbouring countries such as Singapore, Thailand, Indonesia, Philippines and Vietnam.\n\nAlcohol is generally prohibited for Muslim consumers in the country as Malaysia's sharia law forbids Muslim from drinking and selling alcohol to them. Alcohol is mostly banned for Muslims in the states of Kelantan and Terengganu. The legal age drinking for Malaysia is 21 years old and above, which was changed from the previous legal drinking age of 18, as of 1 December 2017. The legal limit for alcohol while driving in Malaysia is 80 milligrams per decilitre or 100 millilitres. Any vendors, restaurants and retailers need a license to serve or sell tap/draft beers, liquor and spirits in the country, but bottled and canned beers are exempted from such license requirements which is why it is common to find many vendors and coffee houses continue to serving alcohol in their premises without any license throughout the country. Malaysia also impose a nationwide regulations for vendors to place their alcoholic drinks into separate refrigerators or storage places, although this was opposed by certain vendors in the state of Penang. The high tax on alcohol has led to the increase price of alcoholic drinks in Malaysia, this has contributed to alcohol-related harm as many indigenous in the interior turn to unsafe alcohol that being smuggled from neighbouring countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "15456565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15456565", "title": "Anna Jean Ayres", "text": "Anna Jean Ayres\n\nAnna Jean Ayres (January 18, 1920 – December 16, 1988) was an American occupational therapist, educational psychologist and advocate for individuals with special needs. She became known for her work on sensory integration (SI) theory.\n\nBorn on a walnut farm in Visalia, California in 1920, Ayres' parents, Fletcher and Louise (Stamm) Ayres, were both school teachers. Growing up, Ayres claimed to have symptoms similar to the dysfunctions she would later study. Ayres received her B.A. in occupational therapy in 1945, her M.A. in occupational therapy in 1954, and her PhD in educational psychology in 1961, all from the University of Southern California in Los Angeles. She began her post-doctoral work in the UCLA Brain Research Institute from 1964 to 1966 under Dr. Arthur Parmelee. She was also a faculty member in the occupational therapy and special education departments at the University of Southern California from 1955 to 1984.\n\nAyres wrote two books and more than thirty journal articles. In 1975 she standardized tests originally known as the \"Southern California Sensory Integration Tests\" and later revised the \"Sensory Integration and Praxis Tests\" in 1989.\n\nIn 1976, Ayres founded a private pediatric practice called the Ayres Clinic in Torrance, California where she conducted occupational therapy assessment and intervention on children and adults with a variety of disorders, including learning disabilities and autism.\n\nBuilding on the work of Charles S. Sherrington and others, she began developing the theory and associated intervention techniques of sensory integration in the 1950s by examining the relationship between the brain and behavior. By the 1960s, Dr. Ayres recognized and described “hidden disabilities” or “dysfunction in sensory integrative processes\" (Ayres, 1963, 1968), which she later referred to as \"sensory integrative dysfunction\". She originated the theory to “explain the relationship between deficits in interpreting sensation from the body and the environment and difficulties with academic or motor learning.” Between 1968 and 1989, Ayres used tests of sensory integrative and practical functions with children with and without learning and sensorimotor difficulties. These were originally published as \"Southern California Sensory Integration Tests\" (SCSIT; 1975) and later revised as \"Sensory Integration and Praxis Tests (SIPT; 1989). She published numerous factor analyses of assessment findings that allowed her to identify patterns of sensory integrative dysfunction, which were later confirmed by other researchers and expanded upon (e.g. in the context of attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder).\n\n“Sensory integration theory is used to explain why individuals behave in particular ways, plan intervention to ameliorate particular difficulties, and predict how behavior will change as a result of intervention” (p. 5). Dr Ayres defined sensory integration as \"the organization of sensations for use. Our senses give us information about the physical conditions of our body and the environment around us... The brain must organize all of our sensations if a person is to move and learn and behave in a productive manner\" (p. 5).\n\nAyres published her definition of \"sensory integration\" in 1972 as \"the neurological process that organizes sensation from one’s own body and from the environment and makes it possible to use the body effectively within the environment\" (p. 11). In 1979, Dr. Ayres published \"Sensory Integration and the Child\", a book to “help parents to recognize sensory integrative problems in their child, understand what is going on, and do something to help their child”\n\nAs an intervention approach, Sensory integration therapy is used as “a clinical frame of reference for the assessment and treatment of people who have functional disorders in sensory processing” (p. 325). Ayres considered sensory integration intervention \"a speciality of occupational therapy\" (Ayres 1979, p. 155). Thus, the assessment and intervention from a sensory integration perspective are most commonly used by occupational therapy practitioners in their treatment of children with difficulties in occupational performance and participation related to sensory integrative or sensory processing dysfunction.\n\nShe developed the intervention approach through empirical research Many professionals hold that Dr. Ayres created one of the first structures for evidence-based practice in occupational therapy through her theory development (Ayres, 1972), model development (Ayres, 1979-2005), assessment development (Ayres, 1989) and intervention strategies (Ayres, 1972).\n\nA recent review concluded that SIT is \"ineffective and that its theoretical underpinnings and assessment practices are unvalidated.\" Moreover the authors warned that SIT techniques exist \"outside the bounds of established evidence-based practice\" and that SIT is \"quite possible a misuse of limited resources.\"\n\nSensory integration theory and practice has been met with resistance within the occupational therapy profession as well as other disciplines.\n\nAyres received numerous honors from the American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA)--including the Eleanor Clarke Slagle Lectureship, the Award of Merit, and a charter membership in the AOTA Academy of Research—and was named in the Roster of Fellows. She has been described by her students and colleagues as “a pioneer in affective neuroscience” (Schneider, 2005), a “developmental theorist” (Knox, 2005), “one of the original perceptual motor theorists” (Smith Roley, 2005), “a pioneer in our understanding of developmental dyspraxia” (Cermak, 2005), and “an astute observer of human behavior and neurological development” (Bauman, 2005).\n\nShe was dedicated to the promotion of science-driven intervention strategies leading a better quality of life for people with disabilities and their families. “Her work made major inroads into the understanding of clinical neuroscience, the importance of experience in brain development, the role of tactile defensiveness and sensory modulation disorders as contributors to behavioral disorders, and the impact of sensory registration in autism, among others.”\n\nAyres died from complications of breast cancer on December 16, 1988.\n\n"}
{"id": "52348385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52348385", "title": "Antiseptic Douche", "text": "Antiseptic Douche\n\nThe antiseptic douche was one of the most popular forms of birth control in the early 1900s. It was similar in function to the conventional vaginal douche, but was filled with a chemical mixture instead of saline. The purpose of using a chemical mixture was to interrupt the path of sperm and stop a woman from getting pregnant. Family sizes in the previous generations had always been large, with many women having six or more children. Frequent miscarrages and many deaths were also common before modern medicine. For these women, being given the hope that there was a reasonably priced and safe alternative to countless pregnancies gave many women something they had never had in the past: control of their bodies and in turn their lives.\nThe Comstock laws, passed in 1873, made the sale and advertisement of birth control information illegal. While the Comstock laws encompassed anything considered obscene, literature and information relating to pregnancy and birth control was very heavily affected, which prevented women from being able to obtain accurate information regarding feminine health. “It is a crime for anyone, even for the best of reasons and in the greatest need to send or to receive by mail anything that tells ‘where, how or of whom’ information may be secured as to how conception may be controlled.” Even though information could not be advertised, companies found loopholes in the laws. For instance, the packaging of birth control products could not say, “to prevent pregnancy,” but could say to, “manage feminine health.” However, women knew that managing feminine health meant pregnancy prevention, and these products flew off the shelves. As a result of this strategic advertising, an entirely new space in the consumer market was created for birth control products practically overnight. These products, the most successful of which was the antiseptic douche, were sold in catalogs, grocery stores, department stores, and even door to door.\n“This class of case is so common that I feel like apologizing for referring to it… [she] had given birth to five children… And the fear of another pregnancy became an obsession to her.” Women were desperate and would go to great lengths to prevent an unwanted pregnancy. The Antiseptic Douche, in fact, had one of the lowest success rates, somewhere around 20-30%. The majority of women who used the douche often found themselves pregnant in the long run. However, regardless of the high failure rate, demand was high. Because the products could not be advertised as birth control products, the companies were not responsible to communicate the success rate or the health risks associated with using an antiseptic douche. “Clamoring for a larger share of the hygiene market, manufactures did their utmost to ensure their product would be one women would want to try.” Later research actually shows that douching can lead to pregnancy, in that the solution can push the sperm farther up into the body and into the Cervix, or in most cases do nothing because even when used correctly and immediately after sexual intercourse, the sperm has already reached the egg.\nModern research shows douching is very unhealthy for a woman’s hygiene. It unbalances a woman’s pH, which is self-cleaning. Many antiseptic douche products being sold at the time contained very strong chemicals, such as Mercury, and packaging provided little information on how to reduce the effect of the chemicals. Many women felt that the stronger the mixture, the more likely it would be to prevent pregnancy, which increased the health risks. In addition to Mercury, there were various other chemicals being used as birth control, and these different solutions could result in burns to a woman’s vagina, Ectopic pregnancies, and other serious effects that could potentially lead to hospitalization. \nWith the repeal of the Comstock Act, the continued championing of Margaret Sanger, and the development of more reliable forms of birth control, the use of the Antiseptic Douche began to decline. Over time more information was made available to women about the damaging effects of douching, spread by organizations such as Planned Parenthood. With the repeal of the Comstock Act also brought about the development of the birth control pill, which revolutionized women's health. The success rate and ease of new forms of birth control also influenced the decline in the reliance of Antiseptic Douching.\n"}
{"id": "7610506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7610506", "title": "Athletic heart syndrome", "text": "Athletic heart syndrome\n\nAthletic heart syndrome (AHS), also known as athlete's heart, athletic bradycardia, or exercise-induced cardiomegaly is a non-pathological condition commonly seen in sports medicine, in which the human heart is enlarged, and the resting heart rate is lower than normal.\n\nThe athlete's heart is associated with physiological remodeling as a consequence of repetitive cardiac loading. Athlete's heart is common in athletes who routinely exercise more than an hour a day, and occurs primarily in endurance athletes, though it can occasionally arise in heavy weight trainers. The condition is generally considered benign, but may occasionally hide a serious medical condition, or may even be mistaken for one.\n\nAthlete's heart most often does not have any physical symptoms, although an indicator would be a consistently low resting heart rate. Athletes with AHS often do not realize they have the condition unless they undergo specific medical tests, because athlete's heart is a normal, physiological adaptation of the body to the stresses of physical conditioning and aerobic exercise. People diagnosed with athlete's heart commonly display three signs that would usually indicate a heart condition when seen in a regular person: bradycardia, cardiomegaly, and cardiac hypertrophy. Bradycardia is a slower than normal heartbeat, at around 40–60 beats per minute. Cardiomegaly is the state of an enlarged heart, and cardiac hypertrophy the thickening of the muscular wall of the heart, specifically the left ventricle, which pumps oxygenated blood to the aorta. Especially during an intensive workout, more blood and oxygen are required to the peripheral tissues of the arms and legs in highly trained athletes' bodies. A larger heart results in higher cardiac output, which also allows it to beat more slowly, as more blood is pumped out with each beat.\n\nAnother sign of athlete's heart syndrome is an S3 gallop, which can be heard through a stethoscope. This sound can be heard as the diastolic pressure of the irregularly shaped heart creates a disordered blood flow. However, if an S4 gallop is heard, the patient should be given immediate attention. An S4 gallop is a stronger and louder sound created by the heart, if diseased in any way, and is typically a sign of a serious medical condition.\n\nAthlete's heart is a result of dynamic physical activity, such as aerobic training more than 5 hours a week rather than static training such as weightlifting. During intensive prolonged endurance or strength training, the body signals the heart to pump more blood through the body to counteract the oxygen deficit building in the skeletal muscles. Enlargement of the heart is a natural physical adaptation of the body to deal with the high pressures and large amounts of blood that can affect the heart during these periods of time. Over time, the body will increase both the chamber size of the left ventricle, and the muscle mass and wall thickness of the heart.\n\nCardiac output, the amount of blood that leaves the heart in a given time period (i.e. liters per minute), is proportional to both the chamber sizes of the heart and the rate at which the heart beats. With a larger left ventricle, the heart rate can decrease and still maintain a level of cardiac output necessary for the body. Therefore, athletes with AHS commonly have lower resting heart rates than nonathletes.\n\nThe heart becomes enlarged, or hypertrophic, due to intense cardiovascular workouts, creating an increase in stroke volume, an enlarged left ventricle (and right ventricle), and a decrease in resting pulse along with irregular rhythms. The wall of the left ventricle increases in size by about 15–20% of its normal capacity. No decrease of the diastolic function of the left ventricle occurs. The athlete may also experience an irregular heartbeat and a resting pulse rate between 40 and 60 beats per minute (bradycardia).\n\nThe level of physical activity in a person determines what physiological changes the heart makes. The two types of exercise are static (strength-training) and dynamic (endurance-training). Static exercise consists of weight lifting and is mostly anaerobic, meaning the body does not rely on oxygen for performance. It also moderately increases heart rate and stroke volume (oxygen debt). Dynamic exercises include running, swimming, skiing, rowing, and cycling, which rely on oxygen from the body. This type of exercise also increases both heart rate and stroke volume of the heart. Both static and dynamic exercises involve the thickening of the left ventricular wall due to increased cardiac output, which leads to physiologic hypertrophy of the heart. Once athletes stop training, the heart returns to its normal size.\n\nAthlete's heart is usually an incidental finding during a routine screening or during tests for other medical issues. An enlarged heart can be seen at echocardiography or sometimes on a chest X-ray. Similarities at presentation between athlete's heart and clinically relevant cardiac problems may prompt electrocardiography (ECG) and exercise cardiac stress tests. The ECG can detect sinus bradycardia, a resting heart rate of fewer than 60 beats per minute. This is often accompanied by sinus arrhythmia. The pulse of a person with athlete's heart can sometimes be irregular while at rest, but usually returns to normal after exercise begins.\n\nRegarding differential diagnosis, left ventricular hypertrophy is usually indistinguishable from athlete's heart and at ECG, but can usually be discounted in the young and fit.\n\nIt is important to distinguish between athlete's heart and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, a serious cardiovascular disease characterised by thickening of the heart's walls, which produces a similar ECG pattern at rest. This genetic disorder is found in one of 500 Americans and is a leading cause of sudden cardiac death in young athletes (although only about 8% of all cases of sudden death are actually exercise-related). The following table shows some key distinguishing characteristics of the two conditions.\n\nAthlete's heart should not be confused with bradycardia that occurs secondary to Relative energy deficiency in sport or Anorexia nervosa, which involve slowing of metabolic rate and sometimes shrinkage of the heart muscle and reduced heart volume.\n\nThe medical history of the patient (endurance sports) and physical examination (bradycardia, and maybe a third or fourth heart sound), can give important hints.\n\n\nAthlete's heart is not dangerous for athletes (though if a nonathlete has symptoms of bradycardia, cardiomegaly, and cardiac hypertrophy, another illness may be present). Athlete's heart is not the cause of sudden cardiac death during or shortly after a workout, which mainly occurs due to hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, a genetic disorder.\n\nNo treatment is required for people with athletic heart syndrome; it does not pose any physical threats to the athlete, and despite some theoretical concerns that the ventricular remodeling might conceivably predispose for serious arrhythmias, no evidence has been found of any increased risk of long-term events. Athletes should see a physician and receive a clearance to be sure their symptoms are due to athlete’s heart and not another heart disease, such as cardiomyopathy. If the athlete is uncomfortable with having athlete's heart or if a differential diagnosis is difficult, deconditioning from exercise for a period of three months allows the heart to return to its regular size. However, one long-term study of elite-trained athletes found that dilation of the left ventricle was only partially reversible after a long period of deconditioning. This deconditioning is often met with resistance to the accompanying lifestyle changes. The real risk attached to athlete's heart is if athletes or nonathletes simply assume they have the condition, instead of making sure they do not have a life-threatening heart illness.\n\nBecause several well-known and high-profile cases of athletes experiencing sudden unexpected death due to cardiac arrest, such as Reggie White and Marc-Vivien Foé, a growing movement is making an effort to have both professional and school-based athletes screened for cardiac and other related conditions, usually through a careful medical and health history, a good family history, a comprehensive physical examination including auscultation of heart and lung sounds and recording of vital signs such as heart rate and blood pressure, and increasingly, for better efforts at detection, such as an electrocardiogram.\n\nAn electrocardiogram (ECG) is a relatively straightforward procedure to administer and interpret, compared to more invasive or sophisticated tests; it can reveal or hint at many circulatory disorders and arrhythmias. Part of the cost of an ECG may be covered by some insurance companies, though routine use of ECGs or other similar procedures such as echocardiography (ECHO) are still not considered routine in these contexts. Widespread routine ECGs for all potential athletes during initial screening and then during the yearly physical assessment could well be too expensive to implement on a wide scale, especially in the face of the potentially very large demand. In some places, a shortage of funds, portable ECG machines, or qualified personnel to administer and interpret them (medical technicians, paramedics, nurses trained in cardiac monitoring, advanced practice nurses or nurse practitioners, physician assistants, and physicians in internal or family medicine or in some area of cardiopulmonary medicine) exist.\n\nIf sudden cardiac death occurs, it is usually because of pathological hypertrophic enlargement of the heart that went undetected or was incorrectly attributed to the benign \"athletic\" cases. Among the many alternative causes are episodes of isolated arrhythmias which degenerated into lethal VF and asystole, and various unnoticed, possibly asymptomatic cardiac congenital defects of the vessels, chambers, or valves of the heart. Other causes include carditis, endocarditis, myocarditis, and pericarditis whose symptoms were slight or ignored, or were asymptomatic.\n\nThe normal treatments for episodes due to the pathological look-alikes are the same mainstays for any other episode of cardiac arrest: Cardiopulmonary resuscitation, defibrillation to restore normal sinus rhythm, and if initial defibrillation fails, administration of intravenous epinephrine or amiodarone. The goal is avoidance of infarction, heart failure, and/or lethal arrhythmias (ventricular tachycardia, ventricular fibrillation, asystole, or pulseless electrical activity), so ultimately to restore normal sinus rhythm.\n\nThe athlete's heart syndrome was first described in 1899 by S. Henschen. He compared the heart size of cross-country skiers to those who lived sedentary lives. He noticed that those who participated in competitive sports displayed symptoms of athlete’s heart syndrome. Henschen believed the symptoms were a normal adjustment to exercise, and felt concern was not needed. Henschen believed that the entire heart became enlarged, when in fact, only the left side becomes hypertrophic. He also believed athletes with AHS lived shorter lives than those who did not acquire the syndrome. Because his research occurred throughout the 19th century, technology was limited, and it became difficult to come up with appropriate ways to measure the hearts of athletes. Few believed in Henschen’s theory about athletes having larger hearts than those who did not participate in sports: this theory is supported.\n"}
{"id": "5291626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5291626", "title": "Austdalsvatnet", "text": "Austdalsvatnet\n\nAustdalsvatnet is a lake in the northwestern part of the municipality of Luster in Sogn og Fjordane county, Norway. It is located in the Breheimen mountain range at the end of the Austdalsbreen glacier, just north of the lake Styggevatnet. It is about east of Lodalskåpa and Brenibba, in the Jostedalsbreen glacier. The water is regulated by a dam on lake Styggevatnet and it empties into the Jostedøla river which flows south into the Gaupnefjord (part of the Sognefjord).\n\n"}
{"id": "6916694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6916694", "title": "Benjamin scale", "text": "Benjamin scale\n\nThe Sex Orientation Scale (SOS) was Harry Benjamin's attempt to classify and understand various forms and subtypes of transvestism and transsexualism in biological males, published in 1966. It was a seven-point scale (with three types of transvestism, three types of transsexualism, and one category for typical males); it was analogous to the Kinsey Scale as it relates to sexual orientation, which also had seven categories. Much like Kinsey's understanding of sexual orientation, Benjamin understood the nature of gender identity and gender expression not as a discrete scale, but as a spectrum, a continuum with many variations. However the Benjamin scale does not reflect a modern understanding of gender identity and is not useful as a contemporary diagnostic tool, especially due to its conflation of gender identity with sexual orientation.\n\nSex and Gender Role Disorientation and Indecision (Males)\nBenjamin noted, \"It must be emphasized again that the remaining six types are not and never can be sharply separated.\"\nBenjamin added a caveat: \"It has been the intention here to point out the possibility of several conceptions and classifications of the transvestitic and the transsexual phenomenon. Future studies and observations may decide which one is likely to come closest to the truth and in this way a possible understanding of the etiology may be gained.\"\n\nBenjamin's Scale references and uses Alfred Kinsey's sexual orientation scale to distinguish between \"true transsexualism\" and \"transvestism\". But the strict relationship between gender identity (Benjamin's Scale) and sexual orientation (Kinsey's Scale) was just a result of the researcher's biases, not his scientific findings.\n\nContemporary views on gender identity and classification differ markedly from Harry Benjamin's original opinions. Sexual orientation is no longer regarded a criterion for diagnosis, or for distinction between transsexuality, transvestism and other forms of gender variant behavior and expression. Modern views also exclude fetishistic transvestism from the spectrum of transsexual identity/classification, this type of transvestism is not related to gender expression or identity but is a distinctly sexual phenomenon most commonly practised by people who are neither transsexual nor homosexual. Benjamin's scale was designed for use with trans women, and trans men's identities do not align with these categories.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "780014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=780014", "title": "Bone age", "text": "Bone age\n\nBone age is the degree of maturation of a child's bones. As a person grows from fetal life through childhood, puberty, and finishes growth as a young adult, the bones of the skeleton change in size and shape. These changes can be seen by x-ray. The \"bone age\" of a child is the average age at which children reach this stage of bone maturation. A child's current height and bone age can be used to predict adult height. For most people, their bone age is the same as their biological age but for some individuals, their bone age is a couple years older or younger. Those with advanced bone ages typically hit a growth spurt early on but stop growing early sooner while those with delayed bone ages hit their growth spurt later than normal. Kids who are below average height do not necessarily have a delayed bone age; in fact their bone age could actually be advanced which if left untreated, will stunt their growth.\n\nAt birth, only the metaphyses of the \"long bones\" are present. The long bones are those that grow primarily by elongation at an epiphysis at one end of the growing bone. The long bones include the femurs, tibias, and fibulas of the lower limb, the humeri, radii, and ulnas of the upper limb (arm + forearm), and the phalanges of the fingers and toes. The long bones of the leg comprise nearly half of adult height. The other primary skeletal component of height is the spine and skull.\n\nAs a child grows the epiphyses become calcified and appear on the x-rays, as do the carpal and tarsal bones of the hands and feet, separated on the x-rays by a layer of invisible cartilage where most of the growth is occurring. As sex steroid levels rise during puberty, bone maturation accelerates. As growth nears conclusion and attainment of adult height, bones begin to approach the size and shape of adult bones. The remaining cartilaginous portions of the epiphyses become thinner. As these cartilaginous zones become obliterated, the epiphyses are said to be \"closed\" and no further lengthening of the bones will occur. A small amount of spinal growth concludes an adolescent's growth.\n\nPediatric endocrinologists frequently order bone age x-rays to evaluate children for advanced or delayed growth and physical development. These are interpreted by pediatric radiologists, physicians who are experts in using medical imaging for pediatric diagnosis and therapy.\n\nThe most commonly used method is based on a single x-ray of the left hand, fingers, and wrist. A hand is easily x-rayed with minimal radiation and shows many bones in a single view. The bones in the x-ray are compared to the bones of a standard atlas, usually \"Greulich and Pyle\".\n\nA more complex method also based on hand x-rays is the \"TW2\" or the \"TW3\" method (TW = Tanner Whitehouse) method.\n\nAn atlas based on knee maturation has also been compiled.\n\nBone age rating is a procedure well-suited for automation by computer. The main advantage is the elimination of the variability of rating between different human raters. The BoneXpert method is the most prominent example of a completely automated method.\n\nThe hands of infants do not change much in the first year of life and if precise bone age assessment is desired, an x-ray of approximately half of the skeleton (a \"hemiskeleton\" view) may be obtained to assess some of the areas such as shoulders and pelvis which change more in infancy.\n\nStatistics have been compiled to indicate the percentage of height growth remaining at a given bone age. By simple arithmetic, a predicted adult height can be computed from a child's height and bone age. Separate tables are used for boys and girls because of the sex difference in timing of puberty, and slightly different percentages are used for children with unusually advanced or delayed bone maturation. These tables, the Bayley-Pinneau tables, are included as an appendix in the Greulich and Pyle atlas. In 2009, the Bayley-Pinneau method was modernized as part of the BoneXpert for automated bone age determination. It has the option of including parental height and menarche, and there is a special version for Asian children. The method is implemented as an interactive web-page. \n\nIn a number of conditions involving atypical growth, bone age height predictions are less accurate. For example, in children born small for gestational age who remain short after birth, the bone age is a poor predictor of adult height.\n\nAn advanced or delayed bone age does not always indicate disease or \"pathologic\" growth. Conversely, the bone age may be normal in some conditions of abnormal growth. Children do not mature at exactly the same time. Just as there is wide variation among the normal population in age of losing teeth or experiencing the first menstrual period, the bone age of a healthy child may be a year or two advanced or delayed. Those with an advanced bone age typically hit a growth spurt early on but stop growing at an earlier age. Consequently, when a naturally short child has an advanced bone age, it stunts their growth at an early age leaving them even shorter than they would have been. Because of this, those who are short with an advanced bone age, need medical attention before their bones fully fuse.\n\nAn \"advanced\" bone age is common when a child has had prolonged elevation of sex steroid levels, as in precocious puberty or congenital adrenal hyperplasia.\n\nThe bone age is often marginally advanced with premature adrenarche, when a child is overweight from a young age or when a child has lipodystrophy. Those with an advanced bone age typically hit a growth spurt early on but stop growing at an earlier age.\n\nBone age may be significantly advanced in genetic overgrowth syndromes, such as Sotos syndrome, Beckwith-Wiedemann syndrome and Marshall-Smith syndrome.\n\nBone maturation is \"delayed\" with the variation of normal development termed Constitutional delay of growth and puberty, but delay also accompanies growth failure due to growth hormone deficiency and hypothyroidism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24445609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24445609", "title": "Cancer Association of Botswana", "text": "Cancer Association of Botswana\n\nCancer Association of Botswana (CAB) is a voluntary, non-governmental organization established as a trust in 1998.\n\nCancer Association of Botswana is dedicated to reducing the impact of cancer on all\naffected in Botswana by\nincreasing awareness and education to promote healthy lifestyles and early detection of\ncancer, facilitating medical care and providing counseling and support to those affected.\n\nCAB promotes prevention and health promotion through talks, conferences, campaigns and the distribution of brochures and posters throughout the country.\nThrough Tshiamo House (the Interim Care Home) temporary accommodation, medical care, and meals are provided to patients while they are receiving treatment at Princess Marina Hospital and Gaborone Private Hospital. Cancer Association of Botswana also provides transportation for patients to\ngo to the hospitals for treatment.\nCAB offers free confidential counseling to patients, family and friends. After-care is also offered to patients after returning to their respective homes through follow up telephone calls and home visits.\nCAB has a group of survivors who visit cancer patients at their homes and provide them with emotional and spiritual support. This allows for a process whereby cancer victims transform into cancer survivors through active, optimistic and healthy outlook and lifestyle.\n\n"}
{"id": "43839116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43839116", "title": "Caregiving by country", "text": "Caregiving by country\n\nCaregiving by country is the regional variation of caregiving practices as distinguished among countries.\n\nAccording to the Australian Bureau of Statistics 2001 paper on the health and well being of Carers, Carers save the Australian Federal Government over $30 billion a year, according to the same statistics there are over 300 000 Young Carers (Carers Australia states that a Young carer is any carer under the age of 25) with 1.5 million potential young carers, where potential is defined as a young person who lives in a household where there is at least one person who requires full-time care (Is disabled etc.). In 2015, carers provided around 1.9 billion hours of unpaid care. According to a new study by the University of Queensland, Australian carers are providing $13.2 billion worth of free mental health support to their friends and family members. This \"hidden workforce\" is an equivalent of 173,000 full-time mental health support workers.\n\nIn Australia they also have The Australian National Young Carers Action Team (ANYCAT) whose goal is to advocate on behalf of young carers (Being young carers themselves) each board member is the sole representative of their state or territory and represent as few as 75 000 Young Carers.\nIn Most states and Territories they have an ANYCAT equivalent team or Board. In Queensland this is called Young Carers Action Board Queensland (YCABQ).\n\nAccording to the National Bureau of Statistics of China 2011 report regarding China’s total population and structural changes, people belong to the age group of 60 years and above accounted for 184.99 million, which occupied 13.7 percent of the total national population at the end of 2011. The number has risen 0.47 percentage point comparing to the year of 2010. Of these, people age 65 years and above figured up 122.88 million that occupied 9.1 percent of the total and has increased 0.25 percentage points.\n\nAs a steadily increasing older population with a growing demand for long-term care, an issue of lacking of elderly care facilities as well as inadequate training for skilled caregivers has generated a social concern pertaining to elder care. According to the official Chinese media Xinhua, professionally qualified caregivers are in great request with approximately 10 million people needed to provide care for the Chinese aging population. However, the report also stated that only 300,000 people currently working as caregivers with less than 1/3 of them are trained properly.\n\nThere is no organized caregiver association in China. As a result, family members still construct the major source of caregiving in China especially in rural area where the quality of health services is a problem. A recent study aims to examine the effect of depression on family members of whom sons and daughters-in-law carry out main responsibilities in caring for elderly parents have indicated several findings, including:\n\n\nMore recently, another Caregiver Reaction Assessment was conducted in China with a purpose to analyze the reliability and validity among family caregivers of cancer patients. The study recruited 400 participants from the Second Affiliated Hospital of China Medical University in Shenyang with 312 family caregivers completed the survey. This study tried to measure caregiving experience from five aspects: disrupted schedule, financial problems, lack of family support, health problems, and self-esteem. The results indicated that the Chinese version of caregiving is profoundly influenced by the conception of Confucianism that emphasizes filial piety and guides the traditional caregiving ideology. Furthermore, the average age of adult children provide care is 46 years old of whom the majorities still work to support the family. As such, adult children sometimes bear significant physical and mental strain when their personal schedule and life activities are negatively impacted.\n\nWhen compared to all other countries Italy has the highest percentage of residents who are age 65 and older. The life expectancy for males is 76.7 and 82.9 for females, and it is predicted that by 2050 these numbers will reach 81 and 86 years, for men and women respectively. In addition, the country is faced with a rapidly growing older population and a shortage of younger individuals. Furthermore, the Minister of Labor and Social Policies of Italy stated that the family plays the most important role in the quality of life of elders, and it is the primary care provider for the older populations; however, the government also provides assistance to the family care giver by the following services:\nThe family plays an important role in providing care to its older parents but many children still have to work so that they can survive financially and as a result many caregivers are immigrant workers. These immigrant workers come in search of work from many parts of the world such as Moldavia, the Philippines, and Peru; however, the largest population of immigrant workers come from the Ukraine. Many of the caregivers work long hours and weeks, and also leave their own families behind and send them the money they make.\n\nTaiwan Today reports that currently in Taiwan only 72,000 seniors, about one third of those receiving long-term care, live in nursing institutes. The rest are taken care of by family members. Chen indicates that there were 600,000 family caregivers in Taiwan and they spent an average of 13.55 hours a day caregiving. 80 percent of these 600,000 family caregivers encountered limitations on social activities. 70 percent of them needed to take care of patients even when they did not feel well. He also mentions that 80 percent of family caregivers are women, and 50 percent of them are over 50 years old. Women are more likely to be regarded as natural caregivers because of gender expectations. Taiwanese females take care of children and spouses with chronicle illnesses to meet social norms and maintain filial piety. Among the family caregivers in Taiwan, some of them suffer from guilt, depression, nervousness, and injuries, sleeplessness, and hopelessness. Thus, it is a very essential task to promote the capabilities of family caregivers and improve their life quality.\n\nAccording to Carers UK, and based on the 2001 census around six million people in the UK provide care on an unpaid basis for a relative, friend or neighbour in need of support due to old age, disability, frailty or illness. The population of carers is dynamic: at least a third of all people will fulfil a caring role at some point in their lives.\n\nResearch has shown that becoming a carer can have many impacts on a person's life. These include financial costs, exclusion and discrimination at work, social isolation and poor health through stress and physical injury.\n\nAt least half of all carers are in full or part-time employment and some care for more than one person. Carers save the UK economy an estimated £87bn a year, and economic considerations form a key element in government policy to support carers.\n\nThe 2001 Census indicated that there are 175,000 young carers aged under 18 in the UK today. A poll commissioned by The Princess Royal Trust for Carers in 2004 indicates that the number of young carers could be much higher.\n\nPolicy and legislation in relation to caregivers living in Scotland is somewhat different from that in England, Wales and Ireland. Carers are defined by the Scottish Census as being \"individuals who look after, or give any help or support to family members, friends, neighbours and others because of long-term physical or mental ill health or disability or problems related to old age\" (Scotland’s Census Results Online [SCROL]). Estimates from the 2001 census put the numbers of carers in Scotland at 481,579. Of these, 175,969 are reported to provide more than 20 hours of care a week, and 24% provide more than 50 hours of care.\n\nCarers who provide care for 20 hours a week or more are regarded as being at the ‘heavy end’ of caring (Parker 1990). This assumes that they are the most involved carers, providing both personal and physical care, resulting in high levels of stress and most in need of support services. Many of these carers continue to provide care without support from social work or health services and because of this they remain hidden or invisible (Scottish Executive 2006, Cavaye 2006).\n\nCarers are viewed by the government as an important resource and in recent years have been given increasing recognition in health and social care policy. Since devolution in 1999 legislation and policy for caregivers has been developed by the former Scottish Executive (now Scottish Government).\n\nCarers in Scotland are regarded as ‘partners’ in the provision of care. As a result, support services provided to carers are regarded as part of the overall package of care to the person being looked after. This means that carers are not seen as service users and are therefore not responsible for the cost of any service provided. The exception to this is when a carer is looking after their partner; in that situation their income may be taken into account during a financial assessment.\n\nThis situation is different from that which exists in England where carers are viewed as services users in their own right and as such are liable for the cost of services provided. Yet, in many cases, it is not the carer who actually needs the service; it is the person being cared for who needs it because of their illness or disability.\n\nThe average life expectancy in the Ukraine is 61 for men and 72 for women, and as of 2005 Ukraine’s population is about 48 million of whom 15% are 65 and older. Older adults who cannot take care of themselves rely on family members, humanitarian organizations, government programs, or a combination of the three sources. According to the United Nations the Ukrainian Institute of Gerontology completed a study in 1998 which included 8,574 adults of retirement age, and the results demonstrated that older adults rely on older spouses, relatives or others, and departments of community social centers for care. In addition, 10 percent of the participants had an agreement with their caregiver(s) to trade inheritance of their property for the care that they were receiving. The United Nations also describes the very underfunded and understaffed situation of the country, which has effected the quality of services available to elders. For example, they mention that some 38,000 social workers provide care to about 500,000 older adults in need, and a total of 631 community centers and 131 social welfare units are available to provide support for the older population throughout the country. In addition to limited government and local resources many of those who could be caregivers to family members or others in the community choose to migrate to Italy.\n\nThe declining standards of living, economy, and production in the country of Ukraine could be contributing to the migration of Ukrainians to Italy and other countries abroad. It is estimated that there are close to 700,000 undocumented and approximately 195,000 legal working Ukrainian immigrants in Italy and a majority of them work as caregivers. Fedyuk mentions that many of those who move to Italy do not speak the language, work unregulated hours, may be underpaid, and usually are not prepared for all the physical and psychological requirements of being a caregiver. For instance, Fedyuk describes the working requirements of a 51-year-old caregiver who only had a 2-hour break during a single day and one day off a week. Also, there is mention of a 49-year-old woman who arrived to her new job and was not told the \"granny\" she would be caring for had an amputated arm and leg, was blind and could not speak. Those who migrate to Italy usually leave behind families and parents who require care themselves, and this puts further stress and pressure on the individual. Further research should be done in order to examine the extent of the consequences that may result to the caregiver, receiver of care, and those who are left behind in the cases of migrant Ukrainian workers.\n\nAccording to a November, 2007 survey on family caregiving, most family caregivers feel more positive about their experiences than they did just before they took on the responsibility, with significant differences in expectation prior to becoming a caregiver and the actual experience.\n\nThe survey also found that caregivers are often burdened by high out-of-pocket costs in caring for a spouse or parent, but:\n\nAccording to the Caregiver statistics fact sheet (2012) 43.5 million of adult family caregivers care for someone 50+ years of age and 14.9 million care for someone who has Alzheimer's disease or other dementia [Alzheimer's Association, 2011 Alzheimer's Disease Facts and Figures, Alzheimer's and Dementia, Vol. 7, Issue 2]. The number of male caregivers may be increasing and will continue to do so due to a variety of social demographic factors [Kramer, B. J. & E. H. Thompson, (eds.), \"Men as Caregivers,\" (New York:Prometheus Books, 2002]. Retrieved from.\n\nDellman-Jenkins, Blankemeyer and Pinkard found that young adults are increasingly becoming caregivers to their elderly relatives because of economic factors. A new population of caregivers to elderly are children and grandchildren, aged 40 years and younger, serving as the major source of support to an older relative(s). Retrieved from \n\nOther information about US caregivers:\nBy 2009, more than 61.6 million people provided unpaid care for a chronically ill, disabled or aged family member or friend at an estimated value of $450 billion.\n\n1.4 million children ages 8 to 18 provide care for an adult relative; 72% are caring for a parent or grandparent, although most are not the sole caregiver.\n\n30% of family caregivers caring for older individuals are themselves aged 65 or over; another 15% are between the ages of 45 to 54.\n\nLicensing and certification for caregiving can vary by state. In some states, the only licensing needed is by the company that employs the caregivers (unless it is from the state). In other states, an online certification course is recommended. Some states require in-classroom certification, and others require personal care licensing, which can be applied for online. Along with that, in some states, further certifications are required such as CPR training and first aid training.\n\nSome US states, such as California, have set out the responsibilities of the primary caregiver.\nOn February 27, 2004, the International Alliance of Carers Organizations (IACO) was launched by family caregiving organizations from Australia, the UK, Sweden, the Netherlands, and the U.S. The mission of the organization is threefold: \n\nIACO is headquartered in London. Initial IACO projects included promotion of a United Nations Day for Carers and a presentation on the IACO as part of a half-day workshop at the International Federation on Aging conference in Singapore on August 4, 2004. National family carer organizations in all countries are encouraged to join the alliance.\n\nCanadian Caregivers Association is a non-for-profit organization that was established to protect the rights of Canadian families and caregivers from all over Canada and warn them about malpractices in this business.\n\nEUROFAMCARE aims to provide a European review of the situation of family carers of elderly people in relation to the existence, familiarity, availability, use and acceptability of supporting services. \nIn 2003 six countries (Germany, Greece, Italy, Poland, Sweden, United Kingdom) formed a trans-European group, systematically representing the different types of welfare-states in Europe and started a comparative study. The Pan-European Group consists of 23 countries (including the six countries, which are represented by the members of the Consortium).\n\nThe last step is a feedback research action phase based both on the study results and on the pan-European expertise. A European Carers’ Charter in progress will be further developed by the new European network organization EUROCARERS in order to stimulate further activities both on national and European policy levels.\n\nEUROCARERS was formally launched in June 2007 to provide a united voice at European level and influence policy both nationally and within the European Union. Eurocarers currently comprises representatives of 18 organisations and research bodies from nine countries. Members have come together to influence policy within the European Institutions to ensure that the invaluable contribution of carers is recognised across Europe.\n\nEUFAMI - the European Federation of Families of People with Mental Illness - has been operating since 1992.\n\nThe Carers Association was founded in 1987 to represent family carers and advocate for carers rights. The national census of 2006 shows that there are 160,917 people who stated that they are carers and almost 41,000 of these carers are providing 43 or more hours of care each week. They estimate that carers provide 194 million hours of care a year to the value of about 2.5 billion Euros to the economy. Approximately 33,000 full-time carers qualify for the Carers Allowance from the government.\n\nThe Taiwan Association of Family Caregivers (TAFC) was built in 1996. It is the first non-profit organization to voice the rights for family caregivers in Taiwan. The association encourages each city to set up a chapter in order to provide family caregivers with services. The main association is in Taipei and there are ten chapters around Taiwan. The TAFC claims that (1) The government should share the burden of family carers; (2) The government should provide well-qualified respite services; (3) The government should provide family carers with training and support; (4) Labor policy should help employees fulfill their responsibilities as family caregivers.\n\nThe TAFC provides family caregivers with a consulting hotline, newsletters of the association, in-service courses for professional personnel, support groups, and counseling services for caregivers. The association has allied with the Welfare Organization of the Elderly, Taiwan Long-term Care Professional Association, and Taiwan Alzheimer's Disease Association to build a support network for family caregivers.\n\n\nThere is no known or formal caregiver association established in the Ukraine; however, there is an Institute of Gerontology which was established in 1958, and it has four main centers or associations which include:\nThis Institute has contributed research and publications which can be very helpful in assisting the older population of the country and the caregivers of this population.\n"}
{"id": "4832326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4832326", "title": "Century Pharmaceuticals", "text": "Century Pharmaceuticals\n\nCentury Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is an U. S. company, founded in 1966, in Indianapolis, Indiana, USA. \n\nAs of 2018, it is manufacturer of Dakin's solution, a topical, broad spectrum antimicrobial, effective against MRSA, Vancomycin-resistant enterococcus, and other antibiotic-resistant bacteria.\n\nCentury modified Dakin's original formula, making it stable for 12+ months.\n\n"}
{"id": "9387758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9387758", "title": "Champalimaud Foundation", "text": "Champalimaud Foundation\n\nThe Champalimaud Foundation () is a private biomedical research foundation. It was created according to the will of the late entrepreneur António de Sommer Champalimaud, in 2004. The complete name of the foundation honors the mother and father of the founder and is \"Fundação Anna de Sommer Champalimaud e Dr. Carlos Montez Champalimaud\". It is based in Lisbon, Portugal.\n\nThe mission of the Foundation is \"to develop programmes of advanced biomedical research and provide clinical care of excellence, with a focus on translating pioneering scientific discoveries into solutions which can improve the quality of life of individuals around the world.\"\n\nThe foundation undertakes research in the fields of neuroscience and oncology at the modernistic Champalimaud Centre for the Unknown in Lisbon. Research into visual impairment is undertaken via an outreach program.\n\nChampalimaud Clinical Center (CCC) is a modern scientific, medical and technological institution providing specialized clinical treatment for oncology. The Center develops advanced programs for research of diseases. The CCC tries to customize the therapies in order to achieve more effectiveness in controlling and treating the diseases.\n\nThe Champalimaud Centre for the Unknown offers multidisciplinary research with the best condition to attract and maintain the best academics, researchers, and medical doctors from more than 20 different countries in the fields of molecular biology, genetics, immunology, oncology, neurosciences, and behavioural psychology. The centre was opened in 2011 with the mission to provide high clinical care, primarily in the field of oncology. The purpose of inaugurating new facilities for clinical research and teaching is to support front-line research in its postgraduate, and doctorate programs and research into the diagnosis and treatment of cancer patients. \n\nThe Champalimaud clinical centre occupies most of the lower floors of Champalimaud centre for the unknown and helps people suffering from real problems such as brain damage, cancer, and going blind by using the highest level of contemporary science and medicine.\n\nThe management of the Foundation consists of Board of Directors, General Council, Scientific Committee, Ethics Committee and Vision Award Jury. The acting President is Leonor Beleza appointed by António Champalimaud in his will.\n\nThe award was established in 2007 to recognise contributions to research into vision. In even numbered years it is awarded for contributions to overall vision research and in odd numbered years for contributions to the alleviation of visual problems, primarily in developing countries.\n\nSource: Champalimaud Foundation\n\n\nInternational Patient Office at the Champalimaud Clinical Centre\n"}
{"id": "48393564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48393564", "title": "Chinese Ophthalmology", "text": "Chinese Ophthalmology\n\nChinese ophthalmology (Chinese 中医眼科学, pinyin: zhōngyī yǎnkē xué) is part of the Traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). Here diseases of the eyes are treated with Chinese herbs, acupuncture/moxibustion, tuina, Chinese dietary therapy as well as qigong and taijiquan.\n\nInscriptions on oracle bones and tortoise shells from the Shang and Yin dynasties (16th century to 1066 BCE) already contain indications of eye diseases and of their treatment in China.\n\nThe work \"Essential Subtleties on the Silver Sea\" (银海精微, yínhǎi jīngwēi) has had wide influence on the Chinese ophthalmology until today. It was probably written by Sun Simiao and published at the end of the Yuan Dynasty (1271−1368).\n\nA particular feature of Chinese ophthalmology are the \"five wheels\" (五轮, wǔlún) and \"eight boundaries\" (八廓, bākuò). They characterise certain anatomical segments of the eyes and correspond to certain zang-fu organs. From changes of the five wheels and eight boundaries diseases and the necessary therapy may be deduced.\n\nIn modern Chinese ophthalmology in China as well as in Western countries diagnostic methods of Western medicine (such as the slit lamp) are combined with the diagnostic methods of Chinese medicine (such as pulse diagnosis and tongue diagnosis). Then a disease pattern is stated based on the theories of Chinese medicine.\n\nAmongst others, the acupuncture points BL-1 (jingming 睛明, \"Bright Eyes\") and ST-1 (chengqi 承泣, \"Container of Tears\") are said to have a special relationship to eye diseases.\nChinese herbs such as Chrysanthemi flos (菊花, júhuā) have a special relationship to the eyes.\n\nThroughout history, a number of qigong exercises for the better nourishing of the eyes have developed. They are said to prevent defective vision such as shortsightedness and are recommended in cases of eye fatigue (so-called \"eye qigong\"). These exercises are regularly practised in Chinese schools.\n\nIn TCM, eye qigong and tuina are considered to be important additional therapies for consolidation of the therapy results following acupuncture in shortsightedness.\n\n"}
{"id": "52688682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52688682", "title": "Christmas Eye", "text": "Christmas Eye\n\nChristmas Eye (also known as \"seasonal corneal ulcer, Albury-Wodonga syndrome, harvester's eye, or harvester's keratitis\") refers to a poorly understood seasonal epidemic of corneal ulceration which predominantly occurs only within a particular region of Australia.\n\nCircumstantial evidence suggests that beetles in the genus Paederus (Staphylinidae) and other beetles in the genus Orthoperus (Corylophidae) release chemicals, including pederin, that cause painful, but temporary, eye lesions when the beetles accidentally fly into a person's eye. They can also cause severe dermatitis and the so-called 'whiplash' stripe across the skin.\n\nChristmas Eye typically presents with a unilateral, irregular desquamation of the cornea with a well demarcated border. The defect stains brightly with fluorescein. In the very early stages the desquamation may be patchy before progressing to involve up to 80% of the corneal surface.\n\nChristmas Eye appears to respond empirically to topical indomethacin or ketorolac.\n\nEarly research suggests that individuals located within south-west New South Wales and north-east Victoria during the summer period are more frequently affected than elsewhere in Australia. Patients often describe being near a body of water the previous evening and the first cases usually occur when the daytime temperature approaches 30C - typically late November.\n\n"}
{"id": "27148738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27148738", "title": "Cigarette smoking for weight loss", "text": "Cigarette smoking for weight loss\n\nCigarette smoking for weight loss is a weight control method whereby one consumes tobacco, often in the form of cigarettes, to decrease one's appetite. The practice dates to early knowledge of nicotine as an appetite suppressant.\n\nTobacco smoking was associated with appetite suppression among Pre-Columbian indigenous Americans and Old World Europeans. For decades, tobacco companies have employed these connections between slimness and smoking in their advertisements, mainly in brands and advertisements targeting women. Culturally, the links between smoking cigarettes and controlling weight run deep. While it is unclear how many people begin or continue smoking because of weight concerns, research reveals that white female adolescents with established weight-related anxieties are particularly prone to initiate smoking.\nAlthough knowledge of nicotine's effects upon the appetite can contribute to people smoking for weight control purposes, studies have not shown that people smoke exclusively to maintain or lose weight.\n\nThough smoking is widely discouraged by public health professionals for its countless negative health consequences, nicotine may be an appetite suppressant. Nicotine could reduce appetite and influence an individual's eating habits. A study on nicotine's effects on appetite demonstrated that “net effects of nicotine include elevated blood pressure, heart rate, and gastric motility while eliciting a sustained decrease in food intake. Autonomic, sensory, and enteric neurons each constitute potentially important loci for nicotine-mediated changes in feeding behavior.” Thus the cultural associations between smoking and weight control in part reflect the body's physiological reactions to nicotine.\n\nNicotine gum has similar effects to cigarettes in terms of appetite suppression, and there are some people who do not smoke, but use nicotine gum for the purpose of weight control or weight loss.\n\nNicotine can also lower insulin levels in a person's bloodstream, which can reduce cravings for sugary foods. Furthermore, “nicotine-triggered effects of adrenaline on the stomach’s musculature” lead to temporary feelings of subsided hunger. Other studies have shown that smokers expend more calories while engaged in activity, which echo conclusions that smokers experience heightened metabolic rates. Also worth noting are the diuretic properties of nicotine, which causes lower calcium levels in the blood.\n\nThere is much controversy concerning whether smokers are actually thinner than nonsmokers. Some studies have shown that smokers—including long term and current smokers—weigh less than nonsmokers, and gain less weight over time. Conversely, certain longitudinal studies have not shown correlation between weight loss and smoking at least among young persons. Accordingly, while the connection between nicotine and appetite suppression, as well as other physiological responses to nicotine consumption, has been established, whether these chemical and biological reactions translate to smokers being thinner than nonsmokers (at least concerning certain age groups), is still debated. Age may act as a compounding factor in some of these studies. Essentially, a causal relationship has not been explicitly established between physiological effects of nicotine and epidemiological findings about weight among smokers and nonsmokers.\n\nWhile most adults do not smoke for weight control, studies have shown that associations between tobacco use, being thin and desire for weight control do influence adolescents in terms of smoking behavior. Research demonstrates that adolescent girls that strongly value being thin are more likely to initiate smoking. Additionally, girls already engaged in risky behavior for weight control are at increased odds to begin smoking as well.\n\nFurther research needs to examine trends in ethnicity concerning women and smoking for weight control. So far, studies have shown that young white women may be more prone to use cigarettes to manage their weight. Advertisements for particular brands and types of cigarettes seem to target this demographic accordingly.\n\nSeveral studies have been conducted over the past decade examining this issue in depth. While it has generally been found that white females are more apt to smoke to lose weight, one study found that smoking to lose or control weight is not limited to white females, but is prevalent across racial and gender boundaries. Within all racial groups, it was found that weight concerns and negative body perceptions were a significant factor in an adolescent's decision to smoke. The relationship between weight and smoking amongst young men was only statistically significant in white or mixed race groups.\n\nIn the past, studies have shown that adolescent girls do consider weight loss or weight control to be one of the positive values of smoking. Overall, young women and girls concerned about weight control, particularly those already using unhealthy weight control techniques, are at a higher risk of smoking.\n\nIt was not always socially acceptable for women to smoke cigarettes or use tobacco in public. However, over the course of about fifty years, the tobacco industry would change societal attitudes through the conduits of nicotine advertising and public relations, transforming tobacco use into a desirable pastime for female consumer in both the United States and abroad.\n\nPrior to the 1920s, smoking was largely a male pastime and was thought of as a taboo act for women to participate in. During the 19th century, smoking and cigarettes were commonly associated with loose morals and sexual promiscuity. A common prop in Victorian erotic pornography, cigarettes even came to be thought of as an occupational prop of prostitutes and sex workers. Even into the early 20th century, women faced possible arrest if they were caught smoking in public.\n\nDuring the first decade of the twentieth century, women would begin experience upward socioeconomic mobility with the American women's rights movement as they gained new civil liberties. By the outbreak of World War I, as they experienced growing responsibility and freedom on the home front, an increasing number of women were using cigarettes as a tool to challenge traditional ideas about female behavior. However, it would ultimately be the tobacco industry's powerful marketing influence that would turn the cigarette from a social liability into an accepted and desirable commodity for women to openly indulge in. However, many question whether or not the cigarette would have become so ubiquitous among women if the tobacco industry had not seized on the liberating social climate of the 1920s and 30s to exploit the ideas of emancipation and power in order to recruit the untapped female market.\n\nThe President of the American Tobacco Company, Percival Hill, was one of the first tobacco executives to seek out the women's market. Noting the 1920s penchant for bobbed hair cuts, short skirts and slender figures, Mr. Hill saw the potential in selling cigarettes as an appetite suppressant so that women could achieve the decade's enviably small waistlines.\n\nCreated by Albert Lasker for Mr. Hill and Lucky Strike, the “Reach for a Lucky” campaign is one of the most successful, albeit controversial advertising campaigns in the history of modern advertising. Inspired by other campaigns that offered male consumers a reason why they should smoke a given brand (i.e. the Lucky Strike “It’s Toasted” campaign), Lasker sought to give the female market a reason to smoke as well.\n\nBorrowing from the 19th-century slogan of Lydia Pinkham's Vegetable Compound, “Reach for a Vegetable,” that was marketed towards women for the alleviation of menstrual discomfort, Lasker and Lucky Strike launched the “Reach for a Lucky Instead of a Sweet” campaign in 1925, followed by “For a Slender Figure—Reach for a Lucky Instead of a Sweet” in 1928. The print advertisement was disseminated by Edward Bernays throughout the fashion industry in numerous fashion magazines and daily newspapers featuring slender Parisian models and proclaiming the dangers of sugar consumption. Famously, Amelia Earhart would also serve as a spokeswoman for the “Reach for a Lucky” campaign.\n\nEarly on, the print advertisements simply featured an attractive woman with any of the variations of the slogan above or underneath her, accompanied by a rendering of the Lucky Strike Box. Later, the advertisements would make a more pointed statement about weight gain, featuring either a man or a woman in profile view with his or her noticeably fatter shadow silhouette behind. While these early advertisements would focus on both men and women, later variations would target women specifically.\n\nIn \"The Cigarette Century\", Allen Brandt explains that the campaign was revolutionary in its pointed targeting of female consumers as well as in its aggressive marketing strategy that positioned it in direct opposition with candy manufacturers. Shortly after the campaign was released, the National Confectioners Association fired back at Lucky Strike, threatening legal action and publishing anti-cigarette literature that asserted the importance of candy in a balanced, healthy diet. The dispute between Lucky Strike and the National Confectioners Association ultimately drew the attention of the Federal Trade Commission who ordered Lucky Strike to “relinquish all dietary claims for Luckies” in its advertising.\n\nImportantly, this campaign would serve to create a significant association between cigarettes and the feminine values of style, beauty and slimness. Moreover, Allen Brandt writes that the campaign ultimately “promoted a product and a behavior that...possessed specific and appealing social meanings of glamour, beauty, autonomy, and equality” that would come to be synonymous in future cigarette advertising campaigns targeting female consumers. Lucky Strike's message was highly effective, raising the company's market share by more than 200% and making it the most profitable cigarette brand for two years running.\n\nAfter the “Reach for a Lucky Campaign,” Lucky Strike sought to forever change smoking taboos by encouraging women to smoke openly in public. In an infamous publicity stunt, Edward Bernays hired several young, attractive women to march in the Easter Sunday parade in New York brandishing their “torches of freedom”—their Lucky Strike cigarettes. While this campaign did not market cigarettes as weight loss devices, it set the precedent for the new trends in niche marketing that would come to shape the future ways in which the industry would posit new types of cigarettes as weight loss aids. Moreover, it would forever change the public's thoughts on women smoking, transforming the act from a transgressive one into a normalized feminine behavior.\n\nIn 1964, the Surgeon General of the United States released the Surgeon General's Advisory Committee Report on Smoking and Health. This report lead to the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act in 1965, which would mandate that all cigarette packs display warning labels and would change the ways that the tobacco industry would reach consumers via advertising. In April 1964, with Federal Trade Commission statutes pending, the tobacco industry would take on a program of self-regulation in its advertising. This program would become known as the Cigarette Advertising Code, and as Allen Brandt explains, the program:\n\nWith these regulations in place, the tobacco industry could no longer directly market cigarettes to women as weight loss aids like they had in the past. Rather, they would come to rely upon more subversive forms of marketing to target women's concerns with weight management.\n\nIn 1968, shortly after the enactment of the Cigarette Advertising Code, Philip Morris introduced a new brand of cigarettes called Virginia Slims. Following in the footsteps of Lucky Strike, Virginia Slims were marketed specifically to young, affluent, and independent women with the tagline created by the advertising agency, Leo Burnett, “You’ve come a long way, baby” referencing the history of women's liberation. With a colorful, pastel package and female-oriented print advertising featuring beautiful and elegant women, Philip Morris sought to create a cigarette that embodied women's concerns with glamour, style and body image. Moreover, the brand created rift in the market that differentiated between men's and women's cigarettes.\n\nBut perhaps most importantly, Virginia Slims appeal to women's ideals about slimness in their name: Virginia “Slims”—a key value that was not lost on consumers. In \"The Cigarette Century\", Allen Brandt recounts United States Supreme Court case Cipollone v. Liggett Group, Inc., in which habitual tobacco user, Rose Cipollone, filed suit against Liggett and Myers, Lorillard and Philip Morris in five separate tort cases, citing their cigarettes as the cause of her cancer. During her deposition, Cipollone recounted her smoking history, noting that she switched to Virginia Slims in 1968 because female-centered marking appealed to her. Brandt writes that Cipollone described the cigarettes as “the first cigarette for women only...designed slimmer for a woman’s slimmer hands and lips...and packed in a slim purse pack.” \n\nWhile Federal Trade Commission regulations prohibited brands from claiming any health benefits like weight loss, Virginia Slims appeal to women's concerns with aesthetic slimness with their elongated shape and narrow circumference. While traditional cigarettes are 84mm in length, Virginia Slims come in both 100 and 120mm lengths that give the cigarette a more dainty or elegant appearance. Moreover, with a 23mm circumference, slim cigarettes are said to produce less smoke than traditional cigarettes. Slim cigarettes are becoming popular in certain countries.\n\nCigarettes have a long tradition of being coupled with athletics, health and fitness. As early as the mid-to-late 19th century, Bull Durham cigarettes were the official sponsors of professional baseball, horse racing and golf, and by the 1950s, Camel commonly used sports imagery in their print advertisements.\n\nThus, it was not unheard of when Virginia Slims sponsored the Women's Tennis Association in 1970, then known as the “Virginia Slims Circuit”. With this prominent sponsorship came a whole slew of advertisements that featured tennis greats like Billie Jean King and Rosemary Casals alongside the Virginia Slims logo.\n\nOther Virginia Slims advertisements feature slender women in varying states of activity (dancing, running, ice skating, etc.) thus promoting a general attitude of health and fitness.\n\nA new area of study examines the ways in which tobacco companies are targeting the gay community through advertising. Like early niche advertisements that appealed to female consumers, gay tobacco advertisements draw on themes of virility and body image, although it is unclear if gay men tend to smoke to control weight. While the tobacco industry's marketing of the gay community is legal, many within the community have expressed disapproval of the industry's pointed tactics.\n\nWeight gain as a side effect of smoking cessation remains a major aspect of smoking and weight control. People can be discouraged by weight gain experienced while quitting smoking. Weight gain is a common experience during smoking cessation, with roughly 75% of smokers gaining weight after quitting. As nicotine is an appetite suppressant and smokers expend more energy, weight gain due to smoking cessation is generally attributed to increased caloric intake and a slowed metabolic rate.\n\nWeight gain can be a deterrent in the smoking cessation process, even if many smokers did not smoke for weight control purposes. Those in the process of quitting smoking are recommended to follow a healthy diet and to exercise regularly. Most quitting advice encourages people to not be discouraged should they experience weight gain while quitting smoking, as the health benefits of quitting almost always exceed the costs of weight gain. Studies have shown that weight gain during the smoking cessation process can often be lost eventually through diet and exercise.\n\n"}
{"id": "2221807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2221807", "title": "Clinical control group", "text": "Clinical control group\n\nA clinical control group is a group of individuals, involved in a healthcare experimentation, who do not receive the treatment, in order to determine the effectiveness of the drug, supplement or treatment being tested.\n\nComparing the results of a group receiving treatment with the clinical control group is essential to help rule out imagined or random effects of the treatment. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) provides some guidelines about how the groups should be selected; in general the control group and the group receiving the treatment should be as identical as possible.\n\nIf a drug is being tested, the control group will frequently be given a placebo. This is done as a double blind test, as neither the healthcare professional nor the patient know if they are receiving the drug under test or a placebo, and don't find out which substance was administered until after the experiment is concluded.\n\nA clinical control group can be a placebo arm or it can involve an old method used to address a clinical outcome when testing a new idea. For example in a study released by the British Medical Journal, in 1995 studying the effects of strict blood pressure control versus more relaxed blood pressure control in diabetic patients, the clinical control group was the diabetic patients that did not receive tight blood pressure control. In order to qualify for the study, the patients had to meet the inclusion criteria and not match the exclusion criteria. Once the study population was determined, the patients were placed in either the experimental group (strict blood pressure control <150/80mmHg) versus non strict blood pressure control (<180/110). There were a wide variety of ending points for patients such as death, myocardial infarction, stroke, etc. The study was stopped before completion because strict blood pressure control was so much superior to the clinical control group which had relaxed blood pressure control. The study was no longer considered ethical because tight blood pressure control was so much more effective at preventing end points that the clinical control group had to be discontinued. \nThe clinical control group is not always a placebo group. Sometimes the clinical control group can involve comparing a new drug to an older drug in a superiority trial. In a superiority trial, the clinical control group is the older medication rather than the new medication. For example in the ALLHAT trial, Thiazide diuretics were demonstrated to be superior to calcium channel blockers or angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors in reducing cardiovascular events in high risk patients with hypertension. In the ALLHAT study, the clinical control group was not a placebo it was ACEI or Calcium Channel Blockers.\nOverall, clinical control groups can either be a placebo or an old standard of therapy.\n"}
{"id": "27306142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27306142", "title": "Commission on Health Research for Development", "text": "Commission on Health Research for Development\n\nThe Commission on Health Research for Development was an independent international initiative with the aim of improving health and development in what were then called ‘developing countries’. It was active between 1987 and 1990, when it completed its work with the publication of its landmark report: \"Health Research: Essential Link to Equity in Development\".\n\nConvinced that scientific research could contribute much more to health and development, the Commission set out to survey the status of research in relation to the health problems of developing countries, to examine how it was or was not contributing to health in these countries, and to propose improvements in the way health research was being conducted to ensure maximum impact on health.\n\nDuring its two years of work and deliberations, the Commission reviewed available information on health research and development, commissioned special papers, and consulted widely around the world. During open Commission meetings that were held in Germany, Zimbabwe, the United States, Mexico, India, Japan, France and Sweden, local and international experts in health and development were invited to share their experiences. The Commission heard evidence from health researchers, social activists and administrators and met with ministers of health and representatives of many international organisations including the World Health Organization, UNICEF and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP).\n\nThe Commission and its Secretariat produced 25 country reports, 10 Commission reports, 16 staff papers and 33 contributed papers examining the many aspects of health research and development. Consultations included 11 Commission meetings, 15 workshops and 4 consultations with researchers, members of governments and development agencies around the world. In all, the Commission says it involved more than 1000 scientists in this process. Their contributions were synthesized into the Commission’s final report.\n\nThe Commission had 12 members: John R. Evans (Canada) chair, Gelia T. Castillo (Philippines) deputy-chair, Fazle Hasan Abed (Bangladesh), Sune D. Bergstrom (Sweden), Doris Howes Calloway (United States), Essmat S. Ezzat (Egypt), Demissie Habte (Ethiopia), Walter J. Kamba (Zimbabwe), Adetokunbo O. Lucas (Nigeria), Adolfo Martinez-Palomo (Mexico), Saburo Okita (Japan), V. Ramalingaswami (India).\n\nThe professional backgrounds of the Commission members include biomedical, social and epidemiological sciences. Several had institutional responsibilities for the development of governments, institutions, universities, medical schools and research institutions. In addition to scientists and public health professionals, the panel included a businessman, nutritionist, economist, rural sociologist and a lawyer.\n\nIn the introduction to its Report, \"Health Research: Essential Link to Equity in Development\", the Commission describes itself as an independent group that is “not the creation of any agency or institution. Because it is not created by government or an international agency, it is free to reflect frankly on the policies and practices of all.” In the course of its work, the Commission explored the fundamental relationship between health research and development. The multidisciplinary nature of the Commission’s membership helped shape the shared vision that health can be a driving force for national development.\n\nAt the same time, the Commission was not unanimous in its conclusions or recommendations, and heated debates about interpretation of findings and recommended actions were inherent part of its work. In particular, disagreements about where health research should be conducted: should it be in more capable research environments in high income countries where research can be done to higher standards and possibly lead to quicker results and more rapid development of technical interventions or should it be done in low and middle income countries where capacity for research still needed to be built in many instances? In the latter case, the outcome of research studies was not only a research product but also increased research capacity. This same debate continues to this date in virtually the entire field of global health.\n\nThe Commission’s work was supported by 16 donors. The following three provided the leadership in launching the Commission:\n\n\nThe other sponsoring agencies were:\n\n\nFurther support was also provided by a number of universities, university departments and institutes, foundations and government ministries who supported the organization of national and regional workshops, consultations, and contributed papers and inputs to the Commission process.\n\nThe Commission’s work was coordinated by a secretariat, run by Lincoln Chen, Sunil Chacko and David Bell at Harvard University; Richard Feachem and David Bradley at the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine; and Shigekoto Kaihara at Tokyo University. The Secretariat was supported by 24 professional, research and administrative staff during the course of its work. Dr. Sunil Chacko was the sole full-time professional staff member for much of the life of the Commission.\n\nThe Commission found a \n\nThe mismatch was between conditions that cause ill health and death which mostly occurred in low and middle income countries, and global expenditure on health research which focused mostly on the less severe health conditions prevalent in high income countries, became known as the 10-90 gap. In actual figures, 93% of ‘potential years of life lost’ occurred in the developing world while 95% of all research expenditures were made in high income countries. To state this in another way, one could say that only 5% of the world’s research expenditures were spent on diseases that caused 93% of global mortality. This mismatch became later known as the 10/90 gap (in health research expenditure). Although this is an oversimplification, it is a very powerful expression of how research did not deliver on its potential to improve health in the developing world because of a skewed allocation of health research resources in the world.\n\nBased on these findings, the Commission made four main recommendations:\n\n1. Essential National Health Research (ENHR). All countries, no matter how poor, should invest in developing long-term, sustainable research capacity development. With this, countries should identify and prioritize their own research requirements to improve health, and, secondly, should link up with global efforts to address specific conditions.\n\nResponsibility for the implementation of ENRH was primarily located at the level of low and middle income countries themselves – particularly through setting priorities for health research and health research systems, and through – what can now be termed – as generating an environment conducive to research. In addition, countries were asked to invest 2% of their national health budget in health research.\n\nResearch Capacity Strengthening. Strengthening the research capacity of developing nations, including its individuals, institutions and the research system as a whole.\n\n2. Creating international research partnerships\nThe international community, its institutions and research organisations in high income countries were also given specific responsibilities. The report outlines many different lines of investigation that were neglected at the time – some of which are still neglected now. It also emphasized the need for international networking and the support of epidemiological and social science research to achieve health. It also called on the international community to support research capacity building in low and middle income countries.\n\n3. Mobilizing funding to support health research for development. In addition to calling on developing countries to spend 2% of their national health budgets on health research, the Commission called on donors to allocate 5% of all aid given in the health sector to health research and towards building health research capacity. Other recommendations were made, but this section remains the most underdeveloped of the Commission’s report. Although calls for ‘innovative financing mechanisms’ were made, no specifics were provided.\n\n4. Establishing a forum in which progress towards reducing the ‘10/90 gap’ can be monitored. The fourth recommendation concerns the establishment of an ‘international mechanism’ to communicate progress and, if needed, to mobilize more finances for health research for development. This ‘mechanism’ should be ‘independent’ – with which was meant that it should act as a stimulus for others to do research not as a research organisation itself. Such a forum would bring together researchers, donors, governments and other stakeholders on an annual basis to monitor health research for development.\n\nThe Commission tabled its report in September 1990 during a meeting at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden. The meeting brought together many of the people who had been active in or interviewed by the Commission and its Secretariat. The report was widely endorsed, and to ensure that action would not stop with the end of the Commission’s work, a Task Force on Health Research for Development was initiated.\n\nThe Task Force on Health Research for Development was active from the end of the work of the Commission in 1990 until the establishment of a permanent body to take some of the Commission’s work forward, the Council on Health Research for Development (COHRED).\n\nCOHRED, took over where the Task Force left off. COHRED’s primary responsibility became, firstly, advocacy for Essential National Health Research (ENHR) and, secondly, strengthening research capacity in low and middle income countries. Provided with an extremely meagre budget compared to current ‘global health partnerships’, COHRED was nevertheless instrumental in promoting research priority setting in low and middle income countries. It brought the message of ENHR to countries across the world, evolving today to support countries' development of research capacity and national research systems for health.\n\nCOHRED was established in the administrative environment of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) rather than in the World Health Organization (WHO). This emphasizes a key characteristic of the organisation - its focus is development – and the way to get there includes promotion of research and research systems for health, equity and development. in 2002, COHRED became an independent international non-governmental organisation. See the pages on COHRED or Council on Health Research for Development for more information. \n\nThe fourth recommendation became the basis for the establishment of the Global Forum for Health Research, which was created in 1997.\n"}
{"id": "17045650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17045650", "title": "Community health centres in Canada", "text": "Community health centres in Canada\n\nCommunity health centres in Canada, are non-profit, community-governed community health organizations that provide primary health care, health promotion and community development services, using inter-disciplinary teams of health providers. These teams include physicians, nurse practitioners, dieticians, health promoters, counsellors and others who are paid by salary, rather than through a fee-for-service system. \n\nCommunity health centres are sponsored and managed by incorporated non-profit community boards made up of members of the community and others who provide health and social services. Services are designed to meet the specific needs of a defined community. In addition, CHCs provide a variety of health promotion and illness prevention services which focus on addressing and raising awareness of the broader determinants of health such as employment, education, environment, isolation and poverty.\n\nCHCs have been in existence in Canada since the 1920s, sometimes referred to as 'community clinics' (as in Saskatchewan) or CLSCs as in Quebec. Today, there are over 300 CHCs across Canada, represented by the Canadian Association of Community Health Centres (CACHC). There are over 80 CHCs in Ontario alone, represented by the Association of Ontario Health Centres (AOHC). In 2005 the Government of Ontario announced a major expansion of Ontario's CHC network as a key pillar of Ontario's health strategy.\n\nIn many communities, CHCs provide their programs and services for those people who have difficulties accessing a full range of appropriate primary health-care services. Some examples of priority groups are members of linguistic or cultural groups, individuals who live in remote under serviced communities, individuals with low incomes, individuals who are homeless, and the elderly.\n\nThe CHC approach to community health encompasses the broad factors that determine health such as education, employment, income, social support, environment and housing. Health centres provide accessible primary health care services in northern and rural communities, in communities where many people have a high risk of ill health or to individuals and families with significant access issues, such as their race, ethnicity, or mother tongue.\n\nThe Alex CHC - Alberta\n\nBoyle McCauley Health Centre - Edmonton, Alberta\n\nAnishnawbe Health Toronto CHC - Ontario\n\nSomerset West Community Health Centre - Ottawa, Ontario\n\nCUPS-Calgary Urban Project Society - Calgary, Alberta\n\nCLSC Cote-des-Neiges - Quebec\n\nEast End Community Health Centre - Toronto, Ontario\n\nLondon InterCommunity Health Centre - Ontario\n\nNew Heights CHC - Ontario\n\nNine Circles CHC - Manitoba\n\nNorWest Co-op Community Health - Manitoba\n\nNorWest CHCs - Thunder Bay, Ontario\n\nRegina Community Clinic CHC - Saskatchewan\n\nSandy Hill CHC - Ontario\n\nSaskatoon Community Clinic CHC - Saskatchewan\n\nSt. Boniface CHC - Manitoba\n\nSt. Joseph's CHC - New Brunswick\n\nWomen's Health in Women's Hands CHC - Ontario\n"}
{"id": "3518068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3518068", "title": "Complex post-traumatic stress disorder", "text": "Complex post-traumatic stress disorder\n\nComplex post-traumatic stress disorder (C-PTSD; also known as complex trauma disorder) is a psychological disorder that can develop in response to prolonged, repeated experience of interpersonal trauma in a context in which the individual has little or no chance of escape. C-PTSD relates to the trauma model of mental disorders and is associated with chronic sexual, psychological and physical abuse and neglect, chronic intimate partner violence, victims of kidnapping and hostage situations, indentured servants, victims of slavery and human trafficking, sweatshop workers, prisoners of war, concentration camp survivors, residential school survivors, and defectors of cults or cult-like organizations. Situations involving captivity/entrapment (a situation lacking a viable escape route for the victim or a perception of such) can lead to C-PTSD-like symptoms, which can include prolonged feelings of terror, worthlessness, helplessness, and deformation of one's identity and sense of self. C-PTSD has also been referred to as DESNOS or Disorders of Extreme Stress Not Otherwise Specified. \n\nResearchers concluded that C-PTSD is distinct from, but similar to PTSD, somatization disorder, dissociative identity disorder, and borderline personality disorder, with the main distinctions being that it distorts a person's core identity, and involves significant emotional dysregulation. It was first described in 1992 by Judith Herman in her book \"Trauma & Recovery\" and in an accompanying article. The disorder is included in the World Health Organization's (WHO) \"International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems\", 11th Edition (ICD-11); this category of PTSD is not yet adopted by the American Psychiatric Association's (APA) \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\", 5th Edition (DSM-5).\n\nThe diagnosis of PTSD was originally developed for adults who had suffered from a single event trauma, such as rape, or a traumatic experience during a war. However, the situation for many children is quite different. Children can suffer chronic trauma such as maltreatment, family violence, and a disruption in attachment to their primary caregiver. In many cases, it is the child's caregiver who caused the trauma. The diagnosis of PTSD does not take into account how the developmental stages of children may affect their symptoms and how trauma can affect a child’s development.\n\nThe term developmental trauma disorder (DTD) has also been suggested. This developmental form of trauma places children at risk for developing psychiatric and medical disorders. Bessel van der Kolk explains DTD as numerous encounters with interpersonal trauma such as physical assault, sexual assault, violence or death. It can also be brought on by subjective events such as betrayal, defeat or shame.\n\nRepeated traumatization during childhood leads to symptoms that differ from those described for PTSD. Cook and others describe symptoms and behavioural characteristics in seven domains:\n\n\nAdults with C-PTSD have sometimes experienced prolonged interpersonal traumatization beginning in childhood, rather than, or as well as, in adulthood. These early injuries interrupt the development of a robust sense of self and of others. Because physical and emotional pain or neglect was often inflicted by attachment figures such as caregivers or older siblings, these individuals may develop a sense that they are fundamentally flawed and that others cannot be relied upon. This can become a pervasive way of relating to others in adult life, described as insecure attachment. This symptom is neither included in the diagnosis of dissociative disorder nor in that of PTSD in the current DSM-5 (2013). Individuals with Complex PTSD also demonstrate lasting personality disturbances with a significant risk of revictimization.\n\nSix clusters of symptoms have been suggested for diagnosis of C-PTSD:\n\nExperiences in these areas may include:\n\n\nC-PTSD was under consideration for inclusion in the DSM-IV but was not included when the DSM-IV was published in 1994. Neither was it included in the DSM-5. PTSD continues to be listed as a disorder.\n\nPost-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) was included in the DSM-III (1980), mainly due to the relatively large numbers of American combat veterans of the Vietnam War who were seeking treatment for the lingering effects of combat stress. In the 1980s, various researchers and clinicians suggested that PTSD might also accurately describe the sequelae of such traumas as child sexual abuse and domestic abuse. However, it was soon suggested that PTSD failed to account for the cluster of symptoms that were often observed in cases of prolonged abuse, particularly that which was perpetrated against children by caregivers during multiple childhood and adolescent developmental stages. Such patients were often extremely difficult to treat with established methods.\n\nPTSD descriptions fail to capture some of the core characteristics of C-PTSD. These elements include captivity, psychological fragmentation, the loss of a sense of safety, trust, and self-worth, as well as the tendency to be revictimized. Most importantly, there is a loss of a coherent sense of self: this loss, and the ensuing symptom profile, that most pointedly differentiates C-PTSD from PTSD.\n\nC-PTSD is also characterized by attachment disorder, particularly the pervasive insecure, or disorganized-type attachment. DSM-IV (1994) dissociative disorders and PTSD do not include insecure attachment in their criteria. As a consequence of this aspect of C-PTSD, when some adults with C-PTSD become parents and confront their own children's attachment needs, they may have particular difficulty in responding sensitively especially to their infants' and young children's routine distress—such as during routine separations, despite these parents' best intentions and efforts. Although the great majority of survivors do not abuse others, this difficulty in parenting may have adverse repercussions for their children's social and emotional development if parents with this condition and their children do not receive appropriate treatment.\n\nThus, a differentiation between the diagnostic category of C-PTSD and that of PTSD has been suggested. C-PTSD better describes the pervasive negative impact of chronic repetitive trauma than does PTSD alone. PTSD can exist alongside C-PTSD, however a sole diagnosis of PTSD often does not sufficiently encapsulate the breadth of symptoms experienced by those who have experienced prolonged traumatic experience, and therefore C-PTSD extends beyond the PTSD parameters. \n\nC-PTSD also differs from continuous traumatic stress disorder (CTSD), which was introduced into the trauma literature by Gill Straker (1987). It was originally used by South African clinicians to describe the effects of exposure to frequent, high levels of violence usually associated with civil conflict and political repression. The term is also applicable to the effects of exposure to contexts in which gang violence and crime are endemic as well as to the effects of ongoing exposure to life threats in high-risk occupations such as police, fire and emergency services.\n\nTraumatic grief or complicated mourning are conditions where both trauma and grief coincide. There are conceptual links between trauma and bereavement since loss of a loved one is inherently traumatic. If a traumatic event was life-threatening, but did not result in a death, then it is more likely that the survivor will experience post-traumatic stress symptoms. If a person dies, and the survivor was close to the person who died, then it is more likely that symptoms of grief will also develop. When the death is of a loved one, and was sudden or violent, then both symptoms often coincide. This is likely in children exposed to community violence.\n\nFor C-PTSD to manifest traumatic grief, the violence would occur under conditions of captivity, loss of control and disempowerment, coinciding with the death of a friend or loved one in life-threatening circumstances. This again is most likely for children and stepchildren who experience prolonged domestic or chronic community violence that ultimately results in the death of friends and loved ones. The phenomenon of the increased risk of violence and death of stepchildren is referred to as the Cinderella effect.\n\nC-PTSD may share some symptoms with both PTSD and borderline personality disorder.\n\nTreatment is usually tailored to the individual.\n\nThe utility of PTSD derived psychotherapies for assisting children with C-PTSD is uncertain. This area of diagnosis and treatment calls for caution in use of the category C-PTSD. Ford and van der Kolk have suggested that C-PTSD may not be as useful a category for diagnosis and treatment of children as a proposed category of developmental trauma disorder (DTD). For DTD to be diagnosed it requires a\n\n'history of exposure to early life developmentally adverse interpersonal trauma such as sexual abuse, physical abuse, violence, traumatic losses of other significant disruption or betrayal of the child's relationships with primary caregivers, which has been postulated as an etiological basis for complex traumatic stress disorders. Diagnosis, treatment planning and outcome are always relational.'\nSince C-PTSD or DTD in children is often caused by chronic maltreatment, neglect or abuse in a care-giving relationship the first element of the biopsychosocial system to address is that relationship. This invariably involves some sort of child protection agency. This both widens the range of support that can be given to the child but also the complexity of the situation, since the agency's statutory legal obligations may then need to be enforced.\n\nA number of practical, therapeutic and ethical principles for assessment and intervention have been developed and explored in the field:\n\nDelaying therapy for people with complex PTSD (cPTSD), whether intentionally or not, can exacerbate the condition. Herman proposed that recovery from C-PTSD occurs in three stages: \nHerman believes recovery can only occur within a healing relationship and only if the survivor is empowered by that relationship. This healing relationship need not be romantic or sexual in the colloquial sense of \"relationship\", however, and can also include relationships with friends, co-workers, one's relatives or children, and the therapeutic relationship.\n\nComplex trauma means complex reactions and this leads to complex treatments. Hence, treatment for C-PTSD requires a multi-modal approach. It has been suggested that treatment for C-PTSD should differ from treatment for PTSD by focusing on problems that cause more functional impairment than the PTSD symptoms. These problems include emotional dysregulation, dissociation, and interpersonal problems. Six suggested core components of complex trauma treatment include:\n\n\nThe above components can be conceptualized as a model with three phases. Every case will not be the same, but one can expect the first phase to consist of teaching adequate coping strategies and addressing safety concerns. The next phase would focus on decreasing avoidance of traumatic stimuli and applying coping skills learned in phase one. The care provider may also begin challenging assumptions about the trauma and introducing alternative narratives about the trauma. The final phase would consist of solidifying what has previously been learned and transferring these strategies to future stressful events. \n\nMultiple treatments have been suggested for C-PTSD. Among these treatments are experiential and emotionally focused therapy, internal family systems therapy, sensorimotor psychotherapy, eye movement desensitization and reprocessing therapy (EMDR), dialectical behavior therapy (DBT), cognitive behavioral therapy, exposure therapy, psychodynamic therapy, family systems therapy and group therapy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38583700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38583700", "title": "Debbie Ford", "text": "Debbie Ford\n\nDebbie Ford (October 1, 1955 – February 17, 2013) was an American self-help author, coach, lecturer and teacher, most known for New York Times best-selling book, \"The Dark Side of the Light Chasers\" (1998), which aimed to help readers overcome their shadow side with the help of modern psychology and spiritual practices. In following years, she went on to write eight more books including \"Spiritual Divorce\", \"Why Good People Do Bad Things\", and \"The 21-Day Consciousness Cleanse\", which have sold over 1 million copies and been translated into 32 languages. She led workshops on \"Shadow Process\" and hosted TV and radio shows, and also established the \"Ford Institute for Transformational Training\".\n\nAfter Oprah Winfrey discussed Ford's first book, \"The Dark Side of the Light Chasers\" (1998), on her show in late 2000, it spent several weeks on the New York Times bestseller list in late 2000 and early 2001. Her other books that made the list were \"Why Good People Do Bad Things\" (2008) and \"The Shadow Effect: Illuminating the Hidden Power of Your True Self\" (2010), written in collaboration with Deepak Chopra and Marianne Williamson.\n\nOver the years, in a career spanning 20 years, she gave workshops and lectures across the USA and trained coaches on the 'Shadow Process'. She appeared on \"Oprah, Good Morning America, Larry King Live, The Big Idea with Donny Deutsch\", and \"Fox & Friends\", and was a regular contributor to \"Oprah.com\" and \"Huffington Post\". She hosted a weekly talk radio show on Hay House Radio, titled \"Shadow Talk\". She produced and appeared in the documentary \"The Shadow Effect\" (2009), and also in \"3 Magic Words\" (2010).\n\nShe appeared as a life coach helping people with divorce on ABC's short-lived reality series \"The Ex-Wives Club\" (2007). In 2012, she appeared on \"Super Soul Sunday\" (Season 2), a talk show hosted by Oprah Winfrey, airing on OWN (the Oprah Winfrey Network) in an episode titled \"Debbie Ford: Out of the Shadows\", in which she talked about her eleven-year-old struggle with cancer.\n\nFord lived in the seaside community of La Jolla, San Diego County. She died at her home on February 17, 2013, after a prolonged battle with cancer, aged 57.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "541377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=541377", "title": "European Coalition for Just and Effective Drug Policies", "text": "European Coalition for Just and Effective Drug Policies\n\nThe European Coalition for Just and Effective Drug Policies (ENCOD), originally \"European Ngo Council On Drugs and development\" is a network of European non-governmental organisations and citizens concerned with the impact of current international drug policies on the lives of the most affected sectors in North and South.\nSince 1994 they have been working to advocate more just and effective drugs control policies, which include an integrated solution for all problems related to the global drugs phenomenon.\n\nENCOD was set up in 1993 thanks to the support of the European Commission, as an NGO counterpart to the European Monitoring Centre on Drugs and Drug Addiction. However, the Management Board of the EMCDDA later decided to ignore any NGO involvement in the work of the EMCDDA.\n\nIn 1998 a Manifesto for just and effective drug policies was redacted by 14 NGOs from Europe, Africa and South America, then signed by hundreds of organizations, companies, political parties, and citizens.\n\nENCOD is a self-financed and independent network, legally based in Belgium, and is steered by a Committee composed citizens from different EU countries (5 people after the 2013 General assembly).\n\nENCOD has three primary objectives:\n\nENCOD is implementing these objectives in three ways:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35857119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35857119", "title": "Geomelophagia", "text": "Geomelophagia\n\nGeomelophagia is an unusual pica (medical eating disorder) in iron-deficiency anemia and is characterized by abnormal ingestion of raw potatoes.\n"}
{"id": "414855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=414855", "title": "Halal", "text": "Halal\n\nHalal (; \"\", \"permissible\"), also spelled hallal or halaal, refers to what is permissible or lawful in traditional Islamic law. It is frequently applied to permissible food and drinks.\n\nIn the Quran, the word \"halal\" is contrasted with \"haram\" (forbidden). In Islamic jurisprudence, this binary opposition was elaborated into a more complex classification known as \"the five decisions\": mandatory, recommended, neutral, reprehensible, and forbidden. Islamic jurists disagree on whether the term \"halal\" covers the first three or the first four of these categories. In recent times, Islamic movements seeking to mobilize the masses and authors writing for a popular audience have emphasized the simpler distinction of \"halal\" and \"haram\".\n\nThe term \"halal\" is particularly associated with Islamic dietary laws, and especially meat processed and prepared in accordance with those requirements.\n\nThe words \"halal\" and \"haram\" are the usual terms used in the Quran to designate the categories of lawful or allowed and unlawful or forbidden.In the Quran, the root h-l-l denotes lawfulness and may also indicate exiting the ritual state of a pilgrim and entering a profane state. In both these senses, it has an opposite meaning to that conveyed by the root h-r-m (cf. \"haram\" and \"ihram\"). In a literal sense, the root h-l-l may refer to dissolution (e.g., breaking of an oath) or alighting (e.g., of God's wrath). Lawfulness is usually indicated in the Quran by means of the verb \"ahalla\" (to make lawful), with God as the stated or implied subject.\n\nThe terms \"halal\" and \"haram\" parallel the Hebrew terms \"mutar\" (permitted, loosened) and \"asur\" (forbidden), and — particularly with respect to dietary rules — the Old Testament categories of clean and unclean.\n\nSeveral food companies offer \"halal\" processed foods and products, including \"halal\" foie gras, spring rolls, chicken nuggets, ravioli, lasagna, pizza, and baby food.\n\"Halal\" ready meals are a growing consumer market for Muslims in Britain and America and are offered by an increasing number of retailers. Vegetarian cuisine is \"halal\" if it does not contain alcohol.\n\nThe most common example of \"haram\" (non-halal) food is pork (pig meat products). While pork is the only meat that categorically may not be consumed by Muslims (the Quran forbids it, Sura 2:173 and 16:115 ) other foods not in a state of purity are also considered \"haram\". The criteria for non-pork items include their source, the cause of the animal's death, and how it was processed. It also depends on the Muslim's \"madhab\".\nMuslims must also ensure that all foods (particularly processed foods), as well as non-food items like cosmetics and pharmaceuticals, are \"halal\". Frequently, these products contain animal by-products or other ingredients that are not permissible for Muslims to eat or use on their bodies. Foods which are not considered \"halal\" for Muslims to consume include blood and intoxicants such as alcoholic beverages. A Muslim who would otherwise starve to death is allowed to eat non-\"halal\" food if there is no \"halal\" food available.\n\nAt a conference called \"Agri-biotechnology: Shariah Compliance\" held in Malaysia in December 2010 by the Malaysian Biotechnology Information Centre (MABIC) and International Halal Integrity Alliance (IHIA), participants \"adopted a resolution that accepts GM crops and products as halal should all ingredients used to develop them are from halal sources...The only Haram [forbidden] cases are limited to products derived from Haram origin retaining their original characteristics that are not substantially changed.\" \n\nAn article from 2000 stated: \"Should a product be brought to market with a gene from a \"haram\" source [such as pig DNA in a soy product], today it would at least be considered Mashbooh — questionable — if not outright \"haram\". However, all biotechnology-derived foods on the market today are from approved sources.\"\n\nGlobally, \"halal\" food certification has been criticized by anti-halal lobby groups and individuals using social media. Critics have argued that the practice results in added costs; a requirement to officially certify intrinsically-halal foods leads to consumers subsidising a particular religious belief. Australian Federation of Islamic Councils spokesman Keysar Trad told a journalist in July 2014 that this was an attempt to exploit anti-Muslim sentiments.\n\nThe Dubai Chamber of Commerce estimated the global industry value of \"halal\" food consumer purchases to be $1.1 trillion in 2013, accounting for 16.6 percent of the global food and beverage market, with an annual growth of 6.9 percent. Growth regions include Indonesia ($197 million market value in 2012) and Turkey ($100 million). The European Union market for \"halal\" food has an estimated annual growth of around 15 percent and is worth an estimated $30 billion.\n\nThe food must come from a supplier that uses \"halal\" practices. \"\" () is the prescribed method of slaughter for all meat sources, excluding fish and other sea-life, per Islamic law. This method of slaughtering animals consists of using a well-sharpened knife to make a swift, deep incision that cuts the front of the throat, the carotid artery, trachea, and jugular veins. The head of an animal that is slaughtered using \"halal\" methods is aligned with the qiblah. In addition to the direction, permitted animals should be slaughtered upon utterance of the Islamic prayer Bismillah \"in the name of God\".\n\nThe slaughter can be performed by a Muslim or an adherent of religions traditionally known as People of the Book. Blood must be drained from the veins. Carrion (carcasses of dead animals, such as animals who died in the wild) cannot be eaten. Additionally, an animal that has been strangled, beaten (to death), killed by a fall, gored (to death), savaged by a beast of prey (unless finished off by a human), or sacrificed on a stone altar cannot be eaten.\n\nThe animal may be stunned prior to having its throat cut. The UK Food Standards Agency figures from 2011 suggest that 84% of cattle, 81% of sheep and 88% of chickens slaughtered for \"halal\" meat were stunned before they died.\nSupermarkets selling \"halal\" products also report that all animals are stunned before they are slaughtered. Tesco, for example, says \"the only difference between the \"halal\" meat it sells and other meat is that it was blessed as it was killed.\" The British Veterinary Association, along with citizens who have assembled a petition with 100,000 signatures, have raised concerns regarding a proposed \"halal\" abattoir in Wales, in which animals are not to be stunned prior to killing. Concerns about animal suffering from slaughter without prior stunning has resulted in the ban of slaughter of unstunned animals in Denmark, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and Switzerland. Generally, killing animals in Islam is only permissible for two main reasons, to be eaten and to eliminate a danger, e.g. a rabid dog.\n\nIn Sunni Islam, animals slaughtered by Christians or Jews is \"halal\" only if the slaughter is carried out by jugular slice and mentioned before slaughter that the purpose is of permissible consumption and the slaughter is carried out following the name of the God (indicating that you are grateful for God's blessings), unless explicitly prohibited, like pork. The requirement to invoke Allah's name is a must. In other words, the word \"ṭaʻām\" refers to meat; i.e., the meat prepared after the slaughter of an animal by cutting the throat (i.e., the jugular vein, the carotid arteries, and the trachea) and during slaughter Allâh's name is invoked (Ibn ʻAbbās, Mujāhid, ʻIkrimahall quoted by Ṭabarī, Ibn Kathīr).\n\nKosher meats are permitted to be eaten by Muslims. This is due to the similarity between both methods of slaughter and the similar principles of kosher meat which are observed by Jews.\n\n\"Halal\" lifestyle can include travel, finance, clothing, media, recreation, and cosmetics as well as \"halal\" food and diet.\n\nAs of August 2012, around 27 UK Tesco superstores had halal meat counters, selling meat approved for consumption by Muslims. Halal meat is \"stun-free\", so violates RSPCA standards on animal welfare and is against the law in the EU, however it is legal in the UK due to an exemption in the law granted to Jews and Muslims.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56310363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56310363", "title": "Hanni Rützler", "text": "Hanni Rützler\n\nHanni Rützler (born 9 February 1962) is an Austrian nutritional scientist, food trends researcher, author and health psychologist.\n\nHanni Rützler was born in 1962 in Bregenz, the capital of Vorarlberg. She received her secondary education at the Sacré-Coeur in Bregenz, obtaining her Matura in 1981. After a one-year study visit in the United States at Michigan Technological University, Houghton, she began studying home economics and nutritional sciences, psychology and sociology, as well as food and biotechnology at the University of Vienna (completed as Master of Natural Sciences in 1988). Aside from an apprenticeship in person-centered interviewing (completed in 1991), she was an associate at the interdisciplinary research project \"Ernährungskultur in Österreich\" (\"Nutritional Culture in Austria\") at the Institut für Kulturstudien (IKUS). Since then, she has been working as a freelance nutritional scientist, a consultant of food & beverage enterprises and a food trends researcher.\n\nRützler is the founder and leader of the futurefoodstudio in Vienna. She authors reference books and has been an advisor at the Zukunftsinstitut (\"Future Institute\") of Matthias Horx in Frankfurt am Main since 2004.\n\nRützler is a frequent speaker at international meetings and conferences (for example in Berlin, Zürich, Johannesburg and Dubai), as a workshop and seminar leader as well as a nutrition expert on the radio, on television and in written media.\n\nShe is the co-founder of the Verband der Ernährungswissenschafter Österreichs (VEÖ, \"Association of Nutritional Scientists of Austria\") and was from 1999 until 2005 the vice-president of the Österreichische Gesellschaft für Ernährung (ÖGE, \"Austrian Society for Nutrition\"). She was a lecturer at the Medical University of Graz (college course Public Health) and is a member of numerous scientific advisory committees (VEÖ, Forum Ernährung heute, Denkwerk Zukunft, amongst others).\n\nOn 5 August 2013, Rützler took part in food testing the world's first lab-grown burger, which was cooked and eaten at a news conference in London. Scientists from Maastricht University in the Netherlands, led by professor Mark Post, had taken stem cells from a cow and grown them into strips of muscle which they then combined to make a burger. Tissue for the London demonstration was cultivated in May 2013, using about 20,000 thin strips of cultured muscle tissue. Funding of around €250,000 came from an anonymous donor later revealed to be Sergey Brin. The burger was cooked by chef Richard McGeown of Couch's Great House Restaurant, Polperro, Cornwall, and tasted by critics Rützler and Josh Schonwald, as well as lead researcher Post. Rützler stated,\nThere is really a bite to it, there is quite some flavour with the browning. I know there is no fat in it so I didn't really know how juicy it would be, but there is quite some intense taste; it's close to meat, it's not that juicy, but the consistency is perfect. This is meat to me... It's really something to bite on and I think the look is quite similar.\nRützler added that even in a blind trial she would have taken the product for meat rather than a soya copy.\n\nRützler is married to cultural scholar, playwright and journalist Wolfgang Reiter and lives in Vienna and Primmersdorf in Lower Austria. She is a flexitarian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27914821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27914821", "title": "Help (Australian TV series)", "text": "Help (Australian TV series)\n\nHelp (styled as HELP) is a six-part Australian documentary series is broadcast on SBS One that takes you inside the real-life events that Ambulance officers and paramedics face every day while on the job. Since 2010, the program is currently airing on Wednesday afternoons at 3pm.\n\nEvery minute of every day, someone calls an ambulance for help. This series provides a unique insight into a world only seen by ambulance officers, paramedics and emergency victims, as lipstick cameras mounted onto the hats of ambulance officers gives viewers unprecedented access into one of society’s most gritty, demanding and challenging jobs – that of the NSW Ambulance Service’s paramedics and officers.\n\nThe Paramedic’s role is a vital one: they are often the first on an accident scene, providing critical treatment for sick or injured people, aiming to stabilise the patient during transportation to hospital. They are society’s genuine, unsung heroes who quietly go about their business of saving lives, every day.\n\nThis fresh series brings a new perspective to the world of medically themed television, through its unprecedented fly-on-the-wall access as the crew accompanies members of the NSW Ambulance Service as they go about their life-saving work.\n\n\"Help\" is an edge-of-your-seat ride into a whole other world that is only seen by ambulance officers, paramedics and emergency victims.\n\nThe series was first transmitted in Australia from 12 July to 23 August 2006. A total of six episodes were filmed, no further episodes have been announced.\n"}
{"id": "35869003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35869003", "title": "Human mouth", "text": "Human mouth\n\nIn human anatomy, the mouth is the first portion of the alimentary canal that receives food and produces saliva. The oral mucosa is the mucous membrane epithelium lining the inside of the mouth.\n\nIn addition to its primary role as the beginning of the digestive system, in humans the mouth also plays a significant role in communication. While primary aspects of the voice are produced in the throat, the tongue, lips, and jaw are also needed to produce the range of sounds included in human language.\n\nThe mouth consists of two regions, the vestibule and the oral cavity proper. The mouth, normally moist, is lined with a mucous membrane, and contains the teeth. The lips mark the transition from mucous membrane to skin, which covers most of the body.\n\nThe mouth, consists of 2 regions, the vestibule and the oral cavity proper. The vestibule is the area between the teeth, lips and cheeks. The oral cavity is bounded at the sides and in front by the alveolar process (containing the teeth) and at the back by the isthmus of the fauces. Its roof is formed by hard palate at the front, and a soft palate at the back. The uvula projects downwards from the middle of the soft palate at its back. The floor is formed by the mylohyoid muscles and is occupied mainly by the tongue. A mucous membrane – the oral mucus, lines the sides and under surface of the tongue to the gums, lining the inner aspect of the jaw (mandible). It receives the secretions from the submandibular and sublingual salivary glands.\nWhile shut, the orifice of the mouth forms a line between the upper and lower lip. In facial expression, this \"mouth line\" is iconically shaped like an up-open parabola in a smile, and like a down-open parabola in a frown. A \"down-turned mouth\" means a mouth line forming a down-turned parabola, and when permanent can be normal. Also, a \"down-turned mouth\" can be part of the presentation of Prader-Willi syndrome.\n\nThe teeth and the periodontium (i.e. the tissues that support the teeth) are innervated by the maxillary and mandibular divisions of the trigeminal nerve. Maxillary (upper) teeth and their associated periodontal ligament are innervated by the superior alveolar nerves, branches of the maxillary division, termed the posterior superior alveolar nerve, anterior superior alveolar nerve, and the variably present middle superior alveolar nerve. These nerves form the superior dental plexus above the maxillary teeth. The mandibular (lower) teeth and their associated periodontal ligament are innervated by the inferior alveolar nerve, a branch of the mandibular division. This nerve runs inside the mandible, within the inferior alveolar canal below the mandibular teeth, giving off branches to all the lower teeth (inferior dental plexus). The oral mucosa of the gingiva (gums) on the facial (labial) aspect of the maxillary incisors, canines and premolar teeth is innervated by the superior labial branches of the infraorbital nerve. The posterior superior alveolar nerve supplies the gingiva on the facial aspect of the maxillary molar teeth. The gingiva on the palatal aspect of the maxillary teeth is innervated by the greater palatine nerve apart from in the incisor region, where it is the nasopalatine nerve (long sphenopalatine nerve). The gingiva of the lingual aspect of the mandibular teeth is innervated by the sublingual nerve, a branch of the lingual nerve. The gingiva on the facial aspect of the mandibular incisors and canines is innervated by the mental nerve, the continuation of the inferior alveolar nerve emerging from the mental foramen. The gingiva of the buccal (cheek) aspect of the mandibular molar teeth is innervated by the buccal nerve (long buccal nerve).\n\nThe philtrum is the vertical groves in the upper lip, formed where the nasomedial and maxillary processes meet during embryo development. When these processes fail to fuse fully, either a hare lip or cleft palate, (or both) can result.\n\nThe nasolabial folds are the deep creases of tissue that extend from the nose to the sides of the mouth. One of the first signs of age on the human face is the increase in prominence of the nasolabial folds.\n\nThe mouth plays an important role in eating, drinking, breathing and speaking. \nInfants are born with a sucking reflex, by which they instinctively know to suck for nourishment using their lips and jaw.\nThe mouth also helps in chewing and biting food.\n\nA male mouth can hold, on average, 71.2 ml, while a female mouth holds 55.4 ml \n\n\n"}
{"id": "37825526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37825526", "title": "Idiopathic pure sudomotor failure", "text": "Idiopathic pure sudomotor failure\n\nIdiopathic pure sudomotor failure (IPSF) is the most common cause of a rare disorder known as acquired idiopathic generalized anhidrosis (AIGA), a clinical syndrome characterized by generalized decrease or absence of sweating without other autonomic and somatic nervous dysfunctions and without persistent organic cutaneous lesions.\n\nThe term IPSF was first introduced in 1994 after researchers at Saitama Medical School speculated the primary lesion sites in patients were within cholinergic receptors of the sweat glands. The term IPSF represent a distinct subgroup of AIGA without sudomotor neuropathy or sweat gland failure.\n\n\nIntracutaneous injection of pilocarpine (sweat gland stimulant) is known to evoke no sweat response, indicating that lesions are on the post-synaptic side of the nerve-sweat gland junction.\n\nThe proposed pathomechanisms of idiopathic pure sudomotor failure include:\n\nTreatment of AIGA almost always consists of steroid pulse therapy or high-dose oral steroids and is not consistently effective. Much remains unclear regarding the reasons for recurrent anhidrosis. \n\nThe overwhelming majority of reported AIGA patients are Japanese, but whether AIGA is truly rare in whites or has been simply underreported by Western physicians remains unclear.\n\nAIGA is most prevalent among young men. In a 64 case review of the literature 58 reported cases were males and 6 female, with a mean age of onset at 28 ± 11 years. Cholinergic urticaria or sharp pain over the entire body induced by elevated body temperature was reported in 32 cases (50%). Of 28 cases tested, 12 (43%) displayed elevated serum IgE levels. Skin biopsy was performed in 53 cases, with normal findings in 20 cases (38%), and cellular infiltrates in sweat glands or ducts in 23 cases (43%).\n\n"}
{"id": "51562316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51562316", "title": "Intermediate Life Support", "text": "Intermediate Life Support\n\nIntermediate Life Support (ILS) is a level of training undertaken in order to provide emergency medical care outside medical facilities. ILS is classed as mid-level emergency medical care provided by trained first responders who receive more training then Basic First Responders and First-aid providers.\n\nILS contains skills and protocols from Advanced Life Support. In the US, the level of training is comparable with Emergency medical technician – intermediate (EMT-I) or Advance Emergency Medical Technicians. Intermediate Life Support was first used in the USA in 1985, and is now used around the world. It can be run as a separate course for non-professionals, or as part of Advanced Life Support for people in the medical field. ILS is mostly used by non-professional first responders, but the training is suitable for doctors, medical students, nurses, nursing students, midwives, healthcare providers such as physiotherapists, dentist and ambulance technicians. It may also be suitable for fire service technicians, police personnel and prison officers.\n\nIt provides the knowledge and skills to: \n\nImproving the quality of fast first response is the main goal of Intermediate Life Support.\n\nIntermediate Life Support providers are called \"Medical\" or \"Advanced Medical\". Mostly the Medicals and Advanced Medicals work as a Medical team.\nThey both had the same training, but the Advanced Medical is allowed to provide the advanced medical skills.\nAdvanced Medicals work on a daily base as nurses, anesthesiologist-assistants, medical students, paramedics or physician assistants.\n\nProviding a wide range of medical skills and treatment at scene allows the Medical Team to provide better medical care to their patiënts than regular first aid.\nWithout the Advanced Medical at scene, the Medicals still can provide a wide range of medical care.\nMedicals can immobilize fractures of the extremities, stabilize the cervical spine and monitor vital signs as oxygination (SpO2), pulse, bloodpressure, glucose and \nconsciousness. They are also trained to administer oxygen, oral glucose, ipratropium/salbutamol inhalation, fentanyl intranasal spray, valium klysma and paracetamol oral.\nThe scope of practice of the Intermediate Life Support trained Medicals is comparable with the EMT's known in the USA. No needles are required in treatment.\n\nWhen an Advanced Medical is on scene, it increases the abilities to provide a wider range of emergency medical care. \nPartly the Advanced life support protocols are integrated in the Intermediate Life Support. Cardiac arrests and anaphylactic shock treatments can be provided in the same way as Advanced Life Support and Ambulance protocols subscribe.\nThat means also that bag-mask ventilation and inserting an intermediate airway device (iGel or other supraglottic airway device) can be performed if the Advanced Medical has been properly trained. They also starting intravenous access and administer medication in case of cardiac arrest, anafylactic shock or hypoglycemia.\n\n"}
{"id": "36828017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36828017", "title": "Julio Moizeszowicz", "text": "Julio Moizeszowicz\n\nJulio Moizeszowicz is an Argentine psychiatrist. He was born in Buenos Aires, Argentina. He is the son of Polish immigrants who moved to Argentina before World War II.\n\nFrom 1965-1968, he was a Resident Physician at the University of Buenos Aires Medical Clinic Research Institute (under the head Alfredo Lanari). He worked with the team that made the first kidney transplants and the first meeting with the psychotherapy doctors from the Balint Society in Argentina.\n\nIn 1968, after completing his residency, he went to Germany to learn about the clinical drug development (psychopharmacologic and others) of Phase I-II (nomifensine, etifoxine, clobazam, loprazolam, streptokinase, Haemaccel) at the Pharmacologic and Medical Department of Hoechst AG, Behringwerke in Germany.\n\nIn 1973, he started working at the National Neuropsychiatric Hospital \"José Tiburcio Borda\" in Buenos Aires. He was firmly interested in the biological basis of the mind. He obtained a specialty degree and certification as a Psychiatrist (thesis: \"Update on the Clinical Evaluation of Psychotropic Drugs,\" Acta Psiquiátrica y Psicológica de América Latina 1975; 21: 41-51.)\n\nIn 1983, in an opposed and open scientific competition, he obtained the post of Associate Professor in the Mental Health Department at Buenos Aires Medical School, with the Jury of Horacio Etchegoyen, and Dionisio Duarte.\n\nHe held the position in the Mental Health Department, in the Jewish Hospital of Buenos Aires, under the Head (Dr. Jorge Garcia Badaracco) until 1994, where he taught criteria of evidence-based medicine on the neuro-psychopharmacological and psychotherapeutic treatments of patients in the general hospital.\n\nFrom 1983 to 1989, he worked in Didactic Teaching and Supervision of Psychoanalysis at the Psychoanalytic Association of Buenos Aires (ApdeBA, affiliated with the International Psychoanalytic Association) with Dr. Elizabeth Tabak and Dr. Horacio Etchegoyen.\n\nHe was Medical Director at \"The Aleph\" Day Mental Health Clinic (Multiple Therapies Community and Social Learning, 1986–1995); President of the Foundation of Psychopharmacology Research; Editor of the \"Revista Argentina de Psicofarmacología\" (Argentine Psychopharmacology Journal, 1995–2000) and the \"Revista FundoPsi, Evidencia en Psicofarmacología\" (Argentine Journal of Evidence-based Psychopharmacology, 2000–2004).\n\nHe was a Professor at Salta Health Sciences School, National University of Salta (1985–1986); Visiting Professor at the School of Medicine, National University of Córdoba (1997) and the Galician School of Health Administration (under the Head Mental Health Department, Dr. Tiburcio Angosto Saura), Santiago de Compostela, Spain, 2001; Professor of Psychopathology at the Buenos Aires Psychoanalytic Association; Professor of Psychopharmacology at the Argentine Psychiatrist Association; Supervisor at the Psychopharmacology´s Section of the Psychology Department in the Israeli Hospital, Buenos Aires (1977–1989).\n\nHe has served as President of the Psychopharmacology Section of the Argentine Psychiatrist Association (affiliate to the \"World Psychiatric Association, 1983–1993); Member of the Buenos Aires Psychoanalytic Association (component society of the International Psychoanalytic Association) and the New York Academy of Sciences.\n\nHe is currently an International Member of the American Psychiatric Association, Who's Who, Marquis Publication, the Argentine Medical Association, the Argentine Psychiatric Association and of the Board of the Argentine College of Psychopharmacology and Neuroscience.\n\nJulio Moizeszowicz developed psychopharmacological research that tried to complement the relationships between the body and mind, articulated through the psychotherapies, psychoanalytic and psychopharmacological treatments, of various mental disorders.\n\nIn his writings he states that the quantitative invasion (psychological and chemical) disorganizes the psychic apparatus, necessitating the administration of psychoactive drugs to restore the order of the quality and the mental representations.\n\nIt has been demonstrated that besides genetic factors, emotional factors may cause changes in quantity and quality of the brain's neurotransmitters.\n\nIt should be added that due to the quantitative invasion of the mental apparatus, the human is inable to respond to it properly. This is due to the limited possibilities of controlling and elaborating mentally psychic excitements. An excessive influx of excitement immediately cancells the pleasure principle, forcing the psychic apparatus to perform a more urgent task: to link the excitations to allow its subsequent discharge. The action of the pleasure principle requires the fulfillment of certain conditions, which are canceled by psychological trauma.\n\nSigmund Freud, in his 1895 book \"Project for a Scientific Psychology\", confirms the concept of \"a quantity of arousal which moves along the neural networks.\" At the time that human hormones were discovered, Freud adds in \"Outline of Psychoanalysis\" (1938), that \"it is possible to act chemically on the psychic apparatus.\"\n\nToday it is known that every neuron propagates its information through an action potential (electrical signal) and iits synapses are governed by neurotransmitters. The flow of information is transmitted inside neurons from dendrites in the body of the neuron, and from there, to the axon. To continue the propagation of impulses within neurons, the electrical impulse is converted into chemicals. This release of neurotransmitters in the synaptic gap (stored in vesicles) allows the intervention of psychotropic drugs.\n\nThese neurotransmitters are \"captured\" by cell surface receptors, which generate an excitatory postsynaptic potential, in order to transmit the impulse again to another cell. In order to maintain permanent changes over time, it is necessary to store that information. This is done, primarily, through the basic structure messengers (messenger RNA). In this way, the original message can be fixed in the nucleus of the neuron, where the DNA encodes it to definitively remain in the memory (neuronal plasticity).\n\nEric Kandel (Nobel Prize for Medicine in 2000) demonstrated the existence of a genetic memory. Now, it is possible to differentiate between genetic and epigenetic in mental disorders. This is performed through intracellular chemical messengers (signal transduction), which attempt to modify the activity of genes.\n\nFrom Freudian theory, psychosis means that a quantitative attack of impulses cannot be qualified. This invasion of emotions produces psychotic disorders: the Ego merges with the Id, away from the outside world. If on the contrary, the Ego takes alliance with the outside world, but cannot prevail over the Id, neurotic disorders will appear. If the conflict is done through the Superego, depression appears. The presence of over-adaptation to reality will lead to psychosomatic diseases. This strong invasion to the mental apparatus can produce in neurotic patients intense accesses of anxiety, for example, that can generate panic attacks; in psychosis patients this can cause a psychotic breakdown, with a complete loss of the labile restorative construction (which allowed the patient to \"live\" until that moment).\n\nSince 1950, with the synthesis of the typical antipsychotic (chlorpromazine) and the antidepressant (imipramine), Psychopharmacology advances at a dizzying rate, taking advantage of the progress of other sciences. At present, there are methods to investigate chemical and psychological responses of the central nervous system, through neuroimaging (functional magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography, and computed tomography single-photon emission tomography), neurochemistry and bioelectricity.\n\nThe psychoactive drugs may be regarded as an object which acts when the words (the order of the quality and the representations) disappear, as a consequence of a quantitative invasion of the mental apparatus. They are also useful in the prophylactic phases of these mental disorders with painful vital conflicts, like separations, bereavement, job losses, etc., which can result in acute quantitative responses, usually known in advance, by family and psychotherapists.\nIt is recommended that the patient take the medication correctly(compliance), and reach an agreement through a therapeutic relationship, where the doctor can clarify to the patient the benefits, as well as the balance of risks, of psychotherapies and psychopharmacological medications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51494710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51494710", "title": "List of alcohol poisonings in India", "text": "List of alcohol poisonings in India\n\nThis is a list of alcohol poisonings in India.\n\n"}
{"id": "9184276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9184276", "title": "List of dams and reservoirs in Cyprus", "text": "List of dams and reservoirs in Cyprus\n\nCyprus has a total of 108 dams and reservoirs, with a total water storage capacity of about 330,000,000 m. Dams remain the principal source of water both for domestic and agricultural use. Water desalination plants are gradually being constructed in order to deal with recent years of prolonged drought. \n\nList of the largest dams and reservoirs in Cyprus in decreasing order of capacity:\n\n"}
{"id": "24552222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24552222", "title": "Mexican Health and Aging Study", "text": "Mexican Health and Aging Study\n\nThe Mexican Health and Aging Study (MHAS), also known by its Spanish name, \"Estudio Nacional de Salud y Envejecimiento en México, ENASEM,\" is the first panel study of health and aging in Mexico. The first phase of MHAS (waves 1 and 2) was supported by a grant from the MHAS was supported by a grant from the National Institutes of Health/National Institute on Aging (AG 18016, BJ Soldo, PI). The study was a collaborative effort among researchers from the Universities of Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Wisconsin in the U.S., and the \"Instituto Nacional de Estadística, Geografia e Informática\" (INEGI, Mexico).\n\nThe second phase of MHAS (waves 3 and 4) is supported by the National Institutes of Health/National Institute on Aging (R01AG018016, R Wong, PI) and by the INEGI in Mexico. The new study is a collaborative effort from the University of Texas Medical Branch (UTMB), \"Instituto Nacional de Estadística, Geografia e Informática\" (INEGI, Mexico), the University of Wisconsin, the Instituto Nacional de Geriatría (INGER, Mexico) and the Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública (INSP, Mexico).\n\nThe overall goal of the study is to examine the aging process and its disease and disability burden in a large representative panel of older Mexicans from a wide socioeconomic spectrum. The MHAS design was motivated by several research questions related to the dynamics of health and aging in Mexico; the effect on the multiple domains of health of early- and mid-life health behaviors, migration, transfers, and socioeconomic status; and health selectivity among migrants to the U.S. and among those returning to Mexico.\n\nThe MHAS includes a nationally representative sample of Mexicans 50 years and older and their spouses of partners regardless of age, and used protocols and survey instruments that are highly comparable to the U.S. Health and Retirement Study (HRS). The baseline survey is a national representative survey of individuals born prior to 1951. The baseline survey was conducted in 2001, and a follow-up visit to the same individuals was conducted in 2003. The sample for the MHAS baseline was selected from residents of both rural and urban areas, from the National Employment survey (Encuesta Nacional de Empleo, ENE), carried out by the INEGI (Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Geografia) in Mexico; 11,000 households with at least one resident of age 50 or older were eligible to be part of the MHAS baseline sample. The baseline survey was conducted in the summer of 2001 with a sample size of 15,186 respondents. A direct interview was sought with each individual, and proxy interviews obtained when poor health or temporary absence precluded a direct interview. A follow-up survey was carried out in the summer of 2003; all age-eligible subjects from the 2001 wave were targeted even if they had moved. If the subject had died, an interview was conducted with an informed respondent. New spouses of respondents from 2001 were interviewed and included in the 2003 follow-up study, for a total of 14,250 interviews including 546 next-of-kin interviews.\n\nA follow-up visit was completed in 2012. In addition to a follow-up of the 2001 and 2003 respondents, the sample was refreshed by adding a representative sample of the population from the 1952-1962 birth cohorts, as well as their spouses/partners regardless of age. Similar to the baseline interview, the sampling frame for the new cohort sample was the Mexican National Employment and Occupation Survey (ENOE, previously named National Employment Survey, ENE) 2012. During the 2012 survey, 18,465 interviews were completed, including 2,742 next-of-kin interviews. The survey was conducted using a new CAPI (Computer Assisted Personal Interview) system. Also new to the third wave of the study was the collection of a blood sample for biomarkers from a sub-sample (n=2,089) and questions on the occurrence of major life events of the respondents.\n\nThe MHAS is a high quality study, with excellent response and follow-up rates. Response rates for waves in 2001, 2003 and 2012 were 91.8%, 93.3% and 88.1%, respectively. The next wave of the study is planned to be fielded in 2015.\n\nThe study website has a user-friendly environment that was designed to enhance the usability of and access to MHAS survey data and documentation. The platform is in both English (www.MHASweb.org and Spanish (www.ENASEM.org). Databases and study documents can be accessed from the website and include:\n\n• Questionnaires\n• Interviewer and Coder Manuals\n• Codebooks with variable codes and frequencies\n• Follow-up master file to link study subjects through the three waves\n• Fieldwork reports: duration of interviews, response rates\n\nThe website also features a searchable database of publications using MHAS data and a discussion forum available to all users. The discussion forum can be used to facilitate research collaborations and share knowledge among users, including codes for constructing common variables. The database of publications is a non-exhaustive compilation of peer-reviewed publications, working papers, and other research documents using MHAS data.\n\nHealth Measures: Self-reports of conditions, symptoms, functional status, lifestyle behaviors (e.g., smoking and drinking history), use/source/costs of health care services, depression, pain, reading and cognitive performance tests;\n\nBackground: Childhood health and living conditions, education, ability to read/write and count, migration history, marital history;\n\nFamily: Rosters of all children (including deceased children); for each, demographic attributes, summary indicators of childhood and current health, education, current work status, migration. Parent and sibling migration experiences;\n\nTransfers: Financial and time help given to and received by respondent from children, indexed to specific child; time and financial help to parent;\n\nEconomic: Sources and amounts of income, including wages, pensions, and government subsidies; type and value of assets. All non-response in amount questions were followed by bracketed amounts to reduce non-response;\n\nHousing Environment: Type, location, building materials, other indicators of quality, and ownership of consumer durables;\n\nAnthropometric: Interviewers measured weight, height; waist, hip, and calf circumference, knee length, and timed one-leg stands for a random subsample (20%) of respondents.\n\nBiomarkers (included in 2012): C-reactive protein, total cholesterol, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), vitamin D, hemoglobin, HbAlc (using Ac1 Now);\n\nPerformance Measures (included in 2012): Walking speed, grip strength, and balance.\n\nPublications using the MHAS data cover a broad range of disciplines, including demography, microeconomics, labor economics, public health, epidemiology and health care policy. Published papers have appeared in diverse peer reviewed journals of multiple disciplines related to aging and health, both in the U.S. and abroad.\n\nA list of publications and research projects related to the MHAS 2001 and 2003 can be found at www.MHASweb.org.\n\nRuiz-Pantoja, T. E., & Ham-Chande, R. (2007). Childhood health and social factors associated to elderly morbidity {original in Spanish}. \"Salud Pública de México\", \"49\"(Suppl. 4), 495-504.\n"}
{"id": "25222892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25222892", "title": "Moonshine by country", "text": "Moonshine by country\n\nMoonshine is a generic term for distilled alcoholic beverages made throughout the globe from indigenous ingredients reflecting the customs, tastes, and raw materials for fermentation available in each region. The term commonly applies to small-scale production, which is often illegal or tightly regulated in many countries.\n\nZarbali is a moonshine still, a type of distilled alcoholic beverage supposedly made from fermented raisins. \n\nIn Albania, moonshine (Raki) is the primary alcoholic beverage consumed on daily basis. It is made from different fruits, usually grapes, but also plums, apples, blackberries, cornelian cherry, strawberry tree, mulberry, persimmons, figs, juniperus and walnuts.\n\nThe Armenian name for moonshine is oghee. The production of \"oghee\" is widespread in Armenia. White mulberry, grape, cornelian cherry, plum, and apricot moonshine are especially popular, particularly in the countryside.\nThe Arabic word \"Araq\" (Arak) is derived from the Sanskrit word Ark (or Urk, where the sound of U is as in BUT), which means \"distillate\".\n\nDistillation of alcohol requires an excise license in Australia. The sale of stills and other distilling equipment, including yeasts, flavourings, and other ingredients specific to distillation, is legal.\n\nAfter World War II, there was large-scale immigration from Italy, with many of the immigrants settling in irrigation areas with orchards and grapevines. Many of the immigrants made wine for their own use, which was perfectly legal. However, some of them gathered and fermented leftover grape skins, seeds and stems to distill homemade grappa. Because of the woody seeds and stems, the raw liquor held substantial methanol; and there were occasional incidents of poisoning, sometimes at large parties, by distillers who didn't discard the head (the first portion of their condensate).\n\nThus, the widespread deaths meant home-distillation has greatly decreased with later generations, and farm consolidation.\n\nIn Bosnia, home distillation of \"plum rakia\"/\"šljivovica\" is common (plum = šljiva). Bosnians have a long tradition of making plum rakia and it is often made by individuals, with some brands exceeding 60% of alcohol.\n\nBrazil has a long tradition of home distilling, especially in rural areas. Artisanal liquors (especially cachaça made on small farms) tend to be of good quality and are prized by collectors.\n\nOne form that can be qualified as moonshine is known as \"\" (\"Crazy Mary\"). This is aguardente, made in jails by inmates. It can be made from many cereals, ranging from beans to rice or whatever can be converted into alcohol, be it fruit peels or candy, using improvised and illegal equipment.\n\nThe national spirit in Bulgaria is called \"rakia\" [ракия]. It is usually made from grapes, but other fruits are used as well, such as plum (Slivovica), apricot, apple, pear, raspberry, or peach. Rakia is the most popular drink in Bulgaria along with wine. Like wine, it is often produced by villagers, either in a community owned (public) still, or in simpler devices at home. Homemade rakia is considered of better quality and \"safer\" than rakia made in factories, since there were, especially during the 1990s, many counterfeit products on sale. By tradition, distilling a certain amount of rakia for home use has been free of taxes. In connection with Bulgaria joining the European Union in 2007, there were government decisions to raise taxes on homemade spirits. This led to protests in late 2006 and early 2007. With respect to local traditions, there is little risk that makers will actually have to pay the new taxes. In Bulgarian tradition, drinking rakia is accompanied by eating little dishes (called meze [мезе]), usually some kind of salad, e.g., Shopska salad. Rakia also has many uses as a folk medicine.\n\nBurma (Myanmar) has several forms of moonshine. Although it is illegal, moonshine has majority share of the alcohol market especially in rural areas of the country. In the countryside, moonshine shares the alcohol market with what some call palm wine.\n\nArki odongtol or mfofo is the Cameroon moonshine. It has an alcohol content of 80%.\n\nThe common names in Canada for home-made alcohol are shine (bagosse in French) or screech (which usually refers to a rum rather than a whiskey) in Newfoundland; in Manitoba, the term home-brew is also common. Two legal products that are marketed as shine or screech are Myriad View Artisan Distillery Strait Shine and Newfoundland Screech.\n\nIn Colombia moonshine is called \"Tapetusa\" or \"Chirrinchi\" and is illegal. However, it is quite popular in some regions and has been traditional for hundreds of years. The cost of tapetusa is a fraction of the heavily taxed legal alcoholic beverages. The aborigines used to make their own version of alcoholic drink called \"Chicha\" before the arrival of Europeans. Chicha is usually made of corn, which is chewed and spat in an earthen container that was then buried for some time (weeks). The latter is a special kind of alcoholic beverage, and similar to that made by Chilean Indians (Mapuches), but in Chile a legal version of Chicha, made of fermented apples, is sold in September. In the Caribbean coast there is a moonshine called \"Cococho\", an Aguardiente famous for the number of blindness cases due to the addition of methanol.\n\nOn the Caribbean coast of Colombia, the Wayuu tribe produces \"chirrinche\" for local consumption and trade with tourists. Chirrinche is very strong, and often produces a severe hangover.\n\nIn Costa Rica it's called \"Guaro de Contrabando\", which means \"counterfeit liquor\". Also known as \"chirrite\", it can be made from any kind of fermented fruit from \"manzana de agua\" (Malay (rose) apple) to pineapple.\n\nThe tradition in Croatia is similar to Bosnia, and it is also called \"rakija\" and it's made of various fruits. Each fruit has its own quality. Most common fruit for producing \"rakija\" is plum, because of its high percent of fruit sugar which should be better than industrial sugar, since the final product should contain no methanol. It can also be made from wine and grapes, when it is called \"Lozovača\". In some parts of Croatia herbs are put into \"Lozovača\", which they call \"Travarica\" and it is said that it could heal stomach pains and various diseases. This kind of brandy production is very common in the Croatian culture and was fully legal before Croatia's accession to the EU on 1 July 2013 when certain restrictions were imposed.\n\nIn Cuba, \"gualfarina\" or \"gualfara\" is a type of moonshine which is made at homes illegally. Its main ingredients are sugar and yeast, and its flavor is not pleasant. In the production of gualfarina, most people use the same alcohol used in hospitals to cure wounds, etc. The term \"gualfarina\" is thought by many to come from the word warfarina (warfarin in English), an anticoagulant.\n\nIn Cyprus a traditional drink is made from distilling grapes, known as zivania.\n\nThe staple Czech liquor is traditionally made from distilling plums and is known as 'slivovice' (pronounced \"slivovitze\"), or 'meruňkovice', made from apricots. Traditionally produced in garages and cellars, nowadays it is also produced by specialist distillers. It is found especially in the region of Moravia and is popular at celebrations, including weddings. Czech distillers also offer a service to distill your own fruit mash for you, but they charge heavily, on top of the taxes. The Czech slang term for this type of informally produced alcohol is \"pálenka.\"\n\nHome-made corn or cassava-based whiskey is known as \"lotoko\" in the DRC.\n\nLotoko is usually made from maize, but sometimes made from cassava, or plantain. Heads of corn are cut up and boiled into a mash which is then fermented and distilled using improvised stills made from cut-down oil drums. Because of the woody core of the cobs of corn, the alcohol produced contains high levels of methanol which is toxic.\n\nAlthough it is officially banned, because of its high alcohol content (over 50%), its production is widespread in the Democratic Republic of Congo.\n\nLotoko made from cassava or plantains doesn't carry the same methanol risk.\nIn Denmark, moonshine is referred to as hjemmebrændt (lit.: \"home burnt\", that is home distilled). In Denmark an excise license is required to manufacture spirits above 14%. The penalty for illegal manufacture of spirits is a large fine or prison and confiscation of the spirit-making equipment. Even the possession or manufacturing of moonshine equipment is a criminal act. Importing any equipment that can be used for spirit distillation is supposed to be reported to the authorities.\n\nIn the Dominican Republic, moonshine is called \"cleren\" in the towns near the border with Haiti and \"pitrinche\" in the eastern towns. It is made from sugar or fermented sugar cane. Its production is illegal but the law is rarely enforced. Another form is \"berunte\", fermented from either corn (which is the most common), rice, melon, pineapple or wheat.\n\nIn Ecuador, moonshine is often distilled from sugarcane, and referred to as Puro, Spanish for pure, or trago from the Spanish verb \"tragar\", to swallow. Some people refer to it as Puntas (Tips) It is also known as \"fuerte\" or strong. It is often put in glass containers with fruits. A popular preparation mixes the alcohol with sugar cane juice and lemon juice.\n\nIn England an excise licence is required to manufacture spirits by any means. The penalty for \"moonshine\" (=illegal manufactured spirits) is a fine of up to £1,000 and confiscation of the spirit-making equipment.\n\nIn Estonia moonshine is referred to as puskar, samagonn, samakas or metsakohin and is usually made from potatoes or rye.\n\nFinnish moonshine, pontikka, is home-made vodka, usually made from any fermentable carbohydrates, most commonly grain, sugar or potato, made into kilju and distilled, ideally three times (\"kolmasti kirkastettu\"). It is said that the name pontikka came about due to the poor quality French wine from Pontacq. Other names are ponu (an abbreviation of pontikka), ponantsa (a pun on \"Bonanza\"), kotipolttoinen (home-burnt), tuliliemi (fire sauce), korpiroju (wildwood junk), or korpikuusen kyyneleet (tears of wildwood spruce) as stills often are located in remote locations. In Finland Swedish, the most common term is moscha, deriving from English \"moonshine\", as the term was first used by emigrants who had returned home from America. Home distillation was forbidden in 1866, but it was nevertheless widely practiced. Moonshining was boosted by prohibition in Finland in 1919–32, but even though alcohol was legalized, high excise taxes were still levied on it and various restrictions were in place. However, in recent years, the structural change of the rural Finland, the changes in Finnish alcohol politics due to EU membership, the rise of living standards and the availability of cheaper legal liquors, caused by lowering the excise taxes and abolishment of specific import restrictions from Estonia, have made making pontikka a rarity, and it is no longer considered a serious policy issue.\n\nUnlicensed moonshining is technically illegal in Finland, but it is often considered a challenge or hobby. In practice prosecution follows only if the authorities become aware that the product is being sold. Most Finnish moonshiners use simple pot stills and flash distillation. Some have constructed sophisticated reflux or rock stills for fractional distillation, containing plate columns or packed columns, with reflux filling components of Raschig rings, crushed glass, nuts, glass pellets or steel wool. The city of Kitee is the most famous Finnish \"moonshine-city\". Although by definition illegal, drinks produced by the same process are legally available: a brand of vodka called \"Kiteen kirkas\" (\"Kitee's Clear\") is available commercially and Helsinki Distilling Company also produces \"sea-buckthorn pontikka\".\n\nEau de vie, gnôle, goutte, lambic, fine, or more generically the simple name of the fruit they were distilled from – poire (\"Pear\"), prune (\"Plum\"), mirabelle (\"Mirabelle\") – there is a wide variety of terms in French to speak of strong alcohols, which also reflects the wide variety of recipes and ingredients available to make them. There are strong local traditions depending on the provinces: lambic or calvados is distillated from cider in Brittany and Normandy, mirabelle, prune, and kirsch are mainly produced in the East (Alsace, Lorraine, Bourgogne, Champagne), and every wine-producing region has, to some extent, a tradition of making brandy, the most famous being Cognac and Armagnac.\n\nUnlicensed moonshining was tolerated in France up to the late 1950s. Since 1959 the right can no longer be transferred to descendants, and only a few \"\" are still exercising their right. Owning a registered fruit orchard or a vineyard still gives the right to have the production distilled, but is no longer free, and a licensed distiller must be utilized. The excise amounts to 7.50 € per litre of pure alcohol for the first 10 litres, and 14.50 € per litre above that limit.\n\nIn Georgia the traditional grape moonshine is called chacha. Recently, with modernized distilling and aging technology, chacha is promoted as \"Georgian brandy\" or \"Georgian vodka\", and is compared to grappa.\n\nIn Germany, moonshine is called \"Schwarzgebrannter\". The term is very often translated \"black burned\" since the word \"schwarz\" means black, but in this case schwarz means illegal (as in black market). A more accurate translation is \"illegally distilled liquor\". Generally, home-distillation of alcohol is illegal in Germany, and even the use of very small stills up to capacity is illegal since January 2018. Such stills were only used by hobbyists until that date. Possession of such a still is not illegal, but its use has since January 2018. The ownership of larger stills must be reported to fiscal authorities, otherwise it is illegal, and the use of these stills requires a licence. The German market for moonshine is limited, in part because legal alcohol is inexpensive, compared to most European countries and in part because controls are generally effective. German home-distilled alcohol is in most cases a type of traditional German schnapps, often a type of fruit brandy. There are many legal and often very small distilleries in Germany. Most of these small distilleries are located in Southern Germany, located on farms and are home-distilleries. These producers of distilled beverages are called \"abfindungsbrennerei\" and the operation of these small distilleries requires a special type of licence. The number of such licences is limited and it is difficult to obtain one, since in most cases all licences are in use. An abfindungsbrennerei is only allowed to produce a limited amount of pure alcohol per year and the operation of the still is limited to some months of the year. There are tight controls of these limitations. The products of an abfindungsbrennerei, though in many cases home-distilled, are not considered schwarzgebrannter, since they are taxed and legal.\n\nGhanaian moonshine is referred to as \"akpeteshie\", and is distilled from palm wine, or juice from the sugar cane. It is also at times referred to as \"apio\" or simply \"hot drink\".\n\nGreek moonshine is known as tsipouro (Greek: τσίπουρο) or raki (Greek: ρακή). In the island of Crete it is also known as raki (Greek: ρακή) or tsikoudia (Greek: τσικουδιά). It is usually made from pomace grapes. The best quality of raki (Greek: ρακή) is made from grape berries. There is also anise-flavored tsipouro, usually made in Thessaly (Tsipouro Tyrnavou) and also tsipouro (Greek: τσίπουρο) made from Greek Strawberry Tree berries (Greek: κουμαριά), usually made in Northern Epirus.\nThere are legal commercial distilleries, but private stills are quite common, particularly in rural areas. Home distilled products are generally produced in limited quantities, for the distiller's personal use and for gifts to friends and family—many of whom are often present during the distillation process. Home distilled products are not in direct competition with commercial products, since moonshine is generally not sold or consumed in public places.\n\nThe broadest term for Guatemalan moonshine is cusha. It is popular in large regions of the countryside, where it is made by fermenting fruits, particularly for Mayan festivities. If forbidden, nobody is prosecuting its manufacture. Cusha is also a valuable for shamans, who consume it during cleansing ceremonies and spit on their \"patients\" with it.\n\nIn Haiti moonshine is called \"clairin\". It is made from sugar or fermented sugar cane.\n\nIn Honduras, moonshine is commonly called guaro. It is normally distilled from sugarcane. In small towns, it is often sold out of the home by the producer. In cities and larger towns you can find it where other liquors are sold, usually in plastic bottles with labels of local producers.\n\nHungarian moonshine is called házipálinka (\"pálinka\" is a spirit, \"házi\" means 'homemade'). It is mostly made in rural areas where the ingredients, usually fruit, are readily available. In modern times, home destillation was illegal (since medieval time, it was a privilege of the nobility), as it constituted a tax fraud if not carried out at a licensed distillery, however it was, and is quite widespread. Since 2010, it is legal to produce small portions (up to 86 liters 42% ABV per year per person) házipálinka for personal use (ie. to be consumed by \"the distiller, their family and guests\") for a small, yearly fee. Community distilleries also exist, operated by one or more villages, to make maintaining the equipment profitable (in case of rented distill-time, however, the personal quota is 50 liters).\n\nBecause the ingredients are usually of good quality, and the equipment used (while possibly old and obsolete) is designed for this purpose, the quality of these spirits is usually higher than most of the other moonshine varieties; however, expertise is still required and brewing good-quality pálinka is usually a source of prestige in communities, thus making most of the moonshiners adhere to the strict rules defining pálinka. Because of this, házipálinka-induced methanol poisoning is exceptionally rare when compared to other moonshines.\n\nIcelandic moonshine (Landi) is distilled gambri or landabrugg. It is largely made by hobbyists due to high liquor taxes, but used to be a prolific business during the prohibition. Due to the lack of natural cover and harsh weather conditions, most \"moonshining\" activity occurs indoors in a controlled environment. Although potatoes are the most common constituent of Icelandic moonshine, any carbohydrate can be used, including stale bread. Landi is often consumed by people who cannot buy alcohol, either due to their young age or distance from the nearest alcohol store.\n\nLocally produced moonshine is known in India as tharra. It is made by fermenting the mash of sugar cane pulp in large spherical containers made from waterproof ceramic (terra cotta). In South India, moonshine is any alcoholic drink not made in distilleries. Toddy and arrack are not synonyms or Indian names for moonshine liquor. Toddy(or taddy) is an alcoholic beverage made from the sap of palm trees, and arrack refers to strong spirits made traditionally from fermented fruit juices, and the sap of the palm tree. In the Indian state of Goa, a locally produced cashew flavored drink Feni is popular among locals and the tourists. There are frequent deaths associated with consumption of unsafe liquors in India, such as the Hooch tragedy in West Bengal in December 2011.\n\nArrack is commonly produced as moonshine, as thus has resulted in deaths from contaminants.\n\nArak (especially Aragh Sagi) made from various kinds of fruit based liqueurs as well as from wine is commonly produced as moonshine. Its underground production practices have resulted in deaths from contaminants.\nAlso because of the danger of carrying Arak in Iran (as a forbidden drink in Islam) or simply the difficulty of finding it, some use pure Ethanol made for chemical uses which increases the chance of alcohol poisoning.\n\nGrain or potato based moonshine made illegally in Ireland is called poitín, or poteen. The term is a diminutive of the word \"pota\" ' a pot'. As elsewhere, poteen is the basis for extensive folklore with crafty hillsmen pitted against the \"excise men\" as in the song The Hackler from Grouse Hall. In the past, the wisp of smoke on an isolated hillside was what gave the poteen-maker away: in modern times this risk was removed by the use of bottled gas to fire the clandestine still.\n\nClandestine distillation of alcohol typically from grapes which is called grappa was common in the once poor north eastern part of Italy, which still produces some of the finest grappa in the country but with tighter control over the supply of distillation equipment its popularity has slumped. However, distillation of grappa still continues in the rural areas of Italy especially in the south where control over distilling equipment is not as rigid. Typically, families produce small quantities for their own consumption and for gifts to others. Nowadays, the supply of production equipment larger than three litres is controlled, and anything smaller must bear a sign stating that moonshine production is illegal.\n\nOn the island of Sardinia, one can still find local varieties of grappa which are dubbed 'filuferru', the local pronunciation for 'iron-thread'; this peculiar name comes from the fact that grappa jugs and bottles were buried to hide them from authorities with iron-thread tied to them for later retrieval.\n\nLegal production occurs both by large-scale industrial producers as well as small producers who still use the traditional (formerly illegal) methods.\n\nIllegally distilled alcohol is widely made in Kenya, known as \"Changaa\", \"Kumi kumi\" or \"Kill me quick\". It is mostly made from maize and produced with crude stills made from old oil drums. It has been known to cause blindness and death. This may be caused by unscrupulous adulteration by sellers who want to give the beverage more 'kick', for example, adding battery acid. It may be caused by impure distillation. Because use is so widespread in Kenya the government has little control and has considered legalization to avert deaths.\n\nIn Laos (Lao People's Democratic Republic) the home distillation of spirits is technically illegal, although this law is rarely enforced. 'Lao Lao' is the name given to home-produced liquor, and it is drunk openly especially in rural areas, with many small villages operating a communal still. Usually brewed from rice, it varies from well produced, smooth tasting liquor to very rough spirits with many impurities.\n\nIn Latvia, moonshine \"kandža\" (45–55% vol) is generally made from sugar, sometimes from potatoes or also grains. The brewing kettle commonly is an old aluminum milk-can (approximately 40l). Normally sugar, baker's yeast and water is fermented for few weeks and then distilled with help of gas-burner or wood-cooker. Brewing of \"kandža\" is illegal; however, in reality as long as it is used for own consumption (not for sale) there are no problems with authorities.\n\nThe Lithuanian name for moonshine is naminė degtinė or in short naminė or naminukė (\"naminė\" means 'homemade'); also the word samagonas (from Russian \"samogon\") is often used. Quite often samagonas is shorted to samanė which connotates with the word \"samanos\" (means 'moss') as usually Lithuanian moonshine is made illegally, thus hiding in the woods. \n\nMoonshine \"Samanė\" (i.e. named after common name) is made from triticale grain in Dzūkija region. The fermented mash (\"broga\" in Lithuanian) is held in stainless steel reservoir and distilled twice what determines its strength of 50–90% vol and specific aroma.\n\nIn Macedonia moonshine is not only legal, but is also the liquor of choice, where it is called ракија (rakija). Typically, the moonshine is made out of grapes, which are the leftovers from the production of wine, but also made from plums (Slivovica). Moonshine is highly popular because it is commonly used for medicinal purposes. This process usually uses diluted moonshine with caramelised sugar, and the liquor is then boiled and consumed while still hot.\n\nIn Malawi moonshine is commonly brewed and distilled by women in townships and villages. Known as \"kachasu\" or \"Jang'ala\" in Chichewa, various sources of starch may be used including potatoes, sugar cane or maize. Although technically illegal, there is no social stigma attached to moderate consumption.\n\nIn the state of Sarawak, moonshine is called Langkau, meaning 'hut' in the Iban language, which is where people cook them (illegally). Langkau is made from fermented rice wine (tuak) and cooked in a barrel with a little house hanging off the top of the barrel. Some rural folks like to drink 'Langkau' at festivals and during leisure hours. In Sabah, a drink similar to 'Langkau' is called 'Montoku'.\n\nMexico has a variety of home-made alcohol based on sugar cane or agave. The most common name for sugar-cane based moonshine is 'win' in the central Mexican states or 'charanda' in Michoacan in the west coast. Agave-based distilled beverages are generally named 'mezcal'. However, depending on the region, it can take the names of 'tequila', 'sotol', or 'bacanora'.\n\nNepal has an indigenous liquor \"raksi\" () that is distilled illegally at home as well as legally in rustic distilleries. The legal product is usually made from fruit since there are statutes against diverting grain away from human consumption. Distilled liquor made from grain may also be called \"daru\" or \"double-daru\" if distilled twice. Legal raksi is seldom aged; usually quite harsh to the taste. Illegal daru may be smoother, or it can be poisonous if improperly prepared. It is not uncommon for Nepalese to tell outsiders that the concoction does not exist.\n\nThe Nepalese sometimes add rakshi to hot tea, calling the mixture ‘Jungle Tea’.\n\nNew Zealand is one of the few western societies where home distillation is legal for personal consumption but not for private sale. In New Zealand, stills and instruction in their use are sold openly.\nHokonui Moonshine was produced in Southland by early settlers whose (then) illegal distilling activities gained legendary status, see Hokonui Hills. \"Hokonui Moonshine\" is now produced legally and commercially by the Southern Distilling Company which has recently started to export it.\n\nIn the country of Nicaragua, home distilled spirits are called \"Cususa\". [koo-soo'-sah] Cususa is made of corn and \"dulce de tapa\" (dried sugarcane molasses) or just plain sugar. It is distilled by means of a cold bowl of water (porra) placed over a metal drum full of the fermented corn. A tube channels the condensation to a bottle.\n\nIn Nigeria, home based brewing is illegal. Moonshine is variously called 'ogogoro', \", \", 'Abua first eleven', \", \", \", 'push me, I push you', 'koo koo juice', 'crazy man in the bottle', or 'Sapele water' (particularly in Delta State), depending on locality. Several companies produce moonshine legally as 'Gin' examples include Orijin, Schnapps, Chelsea Dry Gin etc. Following the addition of other herbal substances the product may be referred to as \"man powa\".\n\nDue to the very high taxation of alcohol, moonshine production—primarily from potatoes and sugar—remains a popular, albeit illegal, activity in most parts of the country. Moonshining occurs in the Mid- and North-Norwegian regions in particular and rural areas in general. Norwegian moonshine is called \"hjemmebrent\" or \"heimebrent\" (which translates into English as \"home-burnt\"), sometimes also \"heimkok\"/\"himkok\" (meaning \"home-cooked\") or \"heimert\"/\"himert\" (slang), \"blank vara\" or \"blank fløte\" (meaning \"clear stuff\" or \"clear cream\") and the mash is called \"sats\". In rural parts of eastern Norway, it is also referred to as \"ni-seks\"(meaning \"nine-six\", referring to the alcohol content, 96% ABV) as a common moonshine variant is rectified spirits from potatoes. In the county of Telemark mash is also referred to as \"bæs\". A more contemporary name is \"sputnik\" after the Soviet satellites, a joke that the liquor's strength could send one into orbit. In the old days on Finnskogen they called the mash Skogens vin (\"Wine of the forest\"), a name used by poorer people without access to distilling equipment. When talking to foreigners, some Norwegians use the term \"something local\" about their moonshine. In Norway, moonshine is commonly mixed with coffee, and sometimes a spoon of sugar. This drink is known as karsk, and has a special tie to the mid- and north-Norwegian regions, but is also enjoyed elsewhere. A common joke is that the traditional mixture was made by brewing the strongest, blackest coffee possible, then putting a 5 Øre piece (a copper coin of size and color of a pre-decimalization English penny, no longer in circulation) in a cup. Add coffee to the cup until the coin can no longer be seen, then add hjemmebrent, straight from the still until the coin can again be seen. Apple juice is also a common beverage for mixing, as it is said to \"kill the taste\" of bad moonshine.\n\nWhile brewing is permitted in Norway, distillation is not. Possession of equipment capable of distilling is also illegal.\n\nAlcohol is strictly licensed or otherwise illegal in Pakistan. However unregulated production in rural areas thrives. Products include tharra and its variants including what is ironically known as \"Hunza water\" and rudimentary beers made from barley, rye and other grain mixtures. Some brandy is also produced in the north where fruit is more readily available. Methanol contamination is a serious problem in some regions.\n\nIn the faraway rural areas of Panama, the illegal beverage is known as \"chirrisco\" or \"chicha fuerte\", and is highly persecuted by the law, as it is a public health concern. It is often made out of any kind of fruit but is especially brewed from rice or corn. Unscrupulous or ignorant distillers often add car battery acid or toxic chemicals to increase potency, thereby leading to poisoning and severe health problems. In fact, discarded herbicide containers are used to store chirrisco.\n\nSweet cane liquor also is very famous and highly against the law, mainly made and consumed on Azuero's peninsula area, it is known as \"guarapo\". It is fermented buried into the ground for around a year then distilled up to 3 times. This is a tradition well known by a few Spanish descendant from the peninsula passed down from generations.\nPeru is one of the few countries where moonshine is completely legal. The production and sale of homemade alcoholic drinks is entirely unregulated and their consumption is common in daily meals. Pisco is one of the most common alcoholic drinks in Peru, although different types of chicha, with their generally low alcohol content, are the most popular alcoholic drinks in the country, with regional variations common in all areas. Even small children enjoy chicha as commonly as children in other countries may drink juice. This is especially true of the non-alcoholic chicha morada (purple chicha), loved by both children and adults. The low alcohol content rarely causes drunkenness or dependence, even in small children. Chicha was also consumed by the ancient Peruvians, before the Incas' empire; it was apparently consumed by Chavin De Huantar, one of the first cultures in Peru.\n\n is distilled from the sap either of the coconut flower or of the nipa palm fruit. Commercial versions—usually 80 to 90 proof—are widely available, but homemade lambanog can be found in the coconut-producing regions of the country.\n\nThe Polish name for moonshine is bimber; although the word samogon (from Russian) is also used. Far less common is the word księżycówka, which is roughly equivalent to \"moonshine\", being a nominal derivation from the word \"księżyc\", \"moon\". The tradition of producing moonshine might be traced back to the Middle Ages when tavern owners manufactured vodka for local sale from grain and fruit. Later, other means were adopted, particularly those based on fermentation of sugar by yeast. Some of the moonshine is also made from distilling plums and is known under the name of śliwowica. The plum moonshine made in area of Łącko (Southern Poland) called Łącka Śliwowica gained nationwide fame, with tourists travelling long distances to buy one or two bottles of this strong liquor. Because of the climate and density of the population, most of the activity occurred indoors.\n\nIn Poland, the simplest recipe for producing moonshine by fermentation of yeast with the use of 1 kilogram of sugar, 4 liters of water, and 10 dag (= 100 g) of yeast is jokingly abbreviated as 1410 – the year of the Battle of Grunwald, the most famous victory of the Kingdom of Poland, the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and their allies over the Knights of the Teutonic Order in the Middle Ages.\n\nIt is illegal to manufacture moonshine in Poland, as confirmed by the Supreme Court’s ruling of 30 November 2004. Selling home-made alcohol is also a tax offence as there is an excise imposed on sale of alcohol, and there is no provision for those manufacturing alcohol illegally to pay this duty if they want to. In reality the law is not consistently enforced, an example being the authorities' toleration of the large-scale manufacture and sale of Śliwowica Łącka. The small sets for home distillation can also be easily purchased in any chemical glass shop with no control whatsoever.\n\nIn Portugal the most common type of moonshine is a drink commonly named bagaço. The word refers to bagasse, the mash of grape skins and stems left over from the production of wine, which is distilled to produce this spirit that bears the same name. When aged in oak casks, it acquires an orange color, similar to whisky, and enhanced flavour. This is called bagaceira. In the Algarve, \"Arbutus unedo\" is endemic, and its fruit ferments on its own while still on the tree. A drink is made from it called medronho.\n\nThe common Puerto Rican term for moonshine rum is pitorro, from the Andalusian term \"pintorro\", given to a white wine (or rum, near the rum-producing sugar cane fields of Málaga) of inferior quality which has some grape (in the case of the wine) or molasses (in the case of rum) coloring in it.\n\nIn Romania, plum brandy is called țuică (tzuika), rachiu (raki) or palincă (palinka), depending on the region in which it is produced. It is prepared by many people in rural areas, using traditional methods, both for private consumption and for sale. Production is subject to government inspection, for purposes of levying the alcohol tax; undeclared distilleries, even for personal use, are illegal. Some țuică is sold in markets or fairs and even in supermarkets.\n\nThe Russian name for any homemade distilled alcoholic beverage is called samogon (ru: ), meaning \"self-distilled\", literally \"self-ran\"; (гнать - gnat' is the Russian word for making someone run; -gon is derived from). Historically, it was made from malted grain (and therefore similar to whisky), but this method is relatively rare nowadays, due to increased availability of more convenient base ingredients, such as table sugar, which modern \"samogon\" is most often made from. Other common ingredients include beets, potatoes, bread, or various fruit. \"Samogon\" of initial distillation is called pervach (ru: ), literally translated as \"the first one\" – it is known for its high quality (pure alcohol evaporates at the beginning of the process, but impurities do not; over time impurities evaporate as well, thus making the rest of the batch not as clean). The production of samogon is widespread in Russia. Its sale is subject to licensing. Unauthorised sale of samogon is prohibited, however, production for personal consumption has been legal since 1997 in most of the country. Samogon often has a strong repulsive odor, but due to cheap and fast production, and the ability to personalize the flavor of the drink, it is relatively popular. Pervach is known for having a little or no smell.\n\n\"Samogon\" is one of the most popular alcoholic beverages in the country. It directly competes with vodka, which is more expensive (in part due to taxes on distilled alcohol), but contains fewer impurities. A 2002 study found that, among rural households in central Russia, \"samogon\" was the most common alcoholic beverage, its per capita consumption exceeding the consumption of vodka 4.8 to 1. The study estimated that, at the time, it was 4 to 5 times cheaper to manufacture homemade \"samogon\" from sugar than to buy an equivalent quantity of vodka. Since then, the price of vodka has been rising above the rate of inflation. As of 2011, typical cost of production of homemade \"samogon\" is on the order of 30 rubles (approx. 1 USD) per liter, mainly determined by the price of sugar. The breakeven cost of \"economy-class\" vodka is 100 rubles/liter, but federal taxes raise retail prices almost threefold, to 280 rubles/liter. Possibly due to rising taxes, per capita consumption of vodka in Russia has been falling since 2004. It has been largely replaced with \"samogon\" among marginal classes. Some analysts forecast that the trend will result in increased adoption of \"samogon\" among the middle class, and by 2014, \"samogon\" will overtake vodka as the most common alcoholic beverage nationwide.\n\nIn 2016, it was estimated that the black market share in hard liquor sales in Russia dropped to 50 percent in 2016 from 65 percent in 2015 and sells for about a third of the vodka sold in shops.\n\nIn Saudi Arabia, where alcohol is prohibited, black-market alcohol, typically distilled from fermented sugar water, is mostly known as \"Aragh\" (\"عرق\" in Arabic). 'Sidiki' or 'sid' are also commonly recognized terms. 'Sid' is often produced by fermenting fruit juice and sugar, after distillation it is commonly cut 2–3 parts water : 1 part 'Sid'. American soldiers, in the American military bases, and South Korean workers in Saudi Arabia create improvised moonshines from water, fruits (lemons and oranges), and yeast.\n\nIllicitly produced whisky from Scotland is called peatreek. The term refers to the smoke (or \"reek\") infused in the drink by drying the malted barley over a peat fire. \"Peat Reek\" is also the brand name of a legal, commercially available whisky.\n\nProduction of spirits in Scotland requires the relevant excise licences, as in the rest of the UK.\n\nMany types of moonshine are produced in Serbia, even though they are almost exclusively fruit-based, made in pot-stills and commonly referred to as rakija. Šljivovica (plum brandy) is the most popular, but brandies based on other fruits, such as breskovača (peach brandy), kajsijevača or kajsijara (apricot brandy), viljamovka (pear brandy), jabukovača (apple brandy) and dunjevača (quince brandy). Product quality can range from poorly produced low ABV brlja (cheap raw brandy) to oak barrel aged fine quality rakija that is superior to the bulk of the commercial market. Rakija is readily available on open markets even in the big cities, so finding a producer of quality product is the only real challenge in the process. There has been a scarcity of reports on poisoning, which indicates a high level of product safety derived from a long tradition. While most of it is produced in the farming regions (central and north), moonshine is being produced throughout the country and one would be hard-pressed to find a village without at least one pot still. Rakija is not commonly used for mixing with any other drinks as it is considered a fine beverage on its own, but some people have been known to drink beton (literally translated as \"concrete\"), which is a shot-glass of low quality šljivovica dropped into a glass of beer.\n\nUntil recently, rakija had the image of a low-class category of drinks, not comparable to foreign imports, such as whiskey or rum. A recent upsurge in nationalism has reintroduced rakija as a connoisseur's drink to the general public and posh bars that stock quality rakija in many varieties have opened up in major cities' clubbing districts.\n\nThe common term referring to moonshine in Slovakia is \"domáce\", meaning \"made at home\"; or \"páleno\", which roughly translates as \"burned\", derived from the process of burning during distillation.\n\nA common moonshine in Slovakia is slivovica, sometimes called \"plum brandy\" in English. It is notorious for its strong but enjoyable smell delivered by plums from which it is distilled. The typical amount of alcohol is 52% (it may vary between 40–60%). The homemade slivovica is highly esteemed. It is considered a finer quality spirit compared to the industrial products which are usually weaker (around 40%). Nowadays this difference in quality is the primary reason for its production, rather than just the economic issues. A bottle of a good homemade slivovica can be a precious gift, since it cannot be bought. The only way to obtain it is by having parents or friends in rural areas who make it. Slivovica is sometimes used also as a popular medicine to cure the early stages of cold and other minor aches. Though small-scale home production is illegal, the government seems to tolerate it. Several other fruits are used to produce similar homemade spirits, namely pears – hruškovica and wild cherries – čerešňovica.\n\nAnother common traditional Slovak moonshine is called borovička, distilled from juniper berries or pine. Its flavor, although much stronger, resembles gin and can a reach 50–70% alcohol content.\n\nIn Slovenia, especially in the western part, moonshine is distilled from fermented grapes remaining from wine production, and sugar if necessary. It is called \"tropinovec\" (tropine, means squeezed half-dried grapes, in the west of the country). Šnops or Žganje, as its otherwise known, is generally distilled from pears, plums and apples. Because it has around 60–70% of alcohol is often mixed with boiled water to make it lighter (vol. 50%). Tropinovec is rarely drunk in large quantities. It is often mixed with fruits (cherries, pears, etc.) to cover the strong odor and taste, or herbs (Anise, Wolf's bane, etc.) for alternative medical treatment. Home distilling is legal in Slovenia. Still owners are obliged to register and pay excise duties (approximately 15 USD for 40–100 l stills and 30 USD for stills larger than 100 l). There were 20,539 registered home distillers in 2005, down from over 28,000 in 2000.\n\nIn the Solomon Islands illegal liquor known as Kwaso is distilled and widely consumed. It is often of low quality and is thought to have caused death, blindness and severe health problems.\n\nIn South Africa moonshine made from fruit (mostly peaches or marulas) is known as \"mampoer\" (named after the Pedi chief Mampuru). The equivalent product made from grapes is called \"witblits\" (white lightning). Witblits has a long history in the Western Cape Province (over 200 years) and many producers take pride in their product, which is widely available from liquor stores and at farmer's markets. Most witblits is of a very high quality compared to typical moonshine worldwide and is generally comparable to grappa. A licence is required to distill alcohol in South Africa. A limited number of \"cultural heritage\" small-scale distillers are licensed.\n\nMost of the moonshine in Spain is made as a byproduct of wine making by distilling the squeezed skins of the grapes. The basic product is called orujo or aguardiente (burning water). The homemade versions are usually stronger and have a higher alcoholic content, well over the 40% that the commercial versions typically have. Starting with orujo there are a countless number of blends and flavours around. Typically adding herbs, spices or berries or fruits or mixing the moonshine with other distillates. The best-known are probably: \"pacharán\", \"licor de café\" and \"orujo de hierbas\" (tea mixed with orujo).\n\nIn Sri Lanka, home based brewing is illegal. However, this is a lucrative underground business in most parts of the island. Illicit brew is known by many names; 'Kasippu' is the most common and accepted name, 'Heli Arrakku' (archaic term means, Pot-Liquor), 'Kashiya' (which is a pet name derived from more mainstream term Kasippu), 'Vell Beer' (means, beer of the paddy field), 'Katukambi', 'Suduwa' (means, the white substance), 'Galbamuna', 'Gahapan Machan' (means drink it, mate), fanta depending on locality. The raw materials used in the production are mainly common white sugar (from Sugarcane) or local fruits for special brew kasippu manufactured in Sri Lanka, yeast, and urea as a nitrogen source.\n\nIn Sudan, all domestically produced distilled alcoholic beverages can be considered moonshine, on account of a general prohibition of alcohol pursuant to the demands of Islamists for the establishment of Sharia. Nevertheless, production remains widespread, particularly in rural areas of the country, predominantly in the form of araqi, produced from dates.\n\nMoonshine is in Sweden known as \"hembränt\" in Swedish (literally \"home-burnt\") with common nicknames like \"HB\" and \"skogsstjärnan\" (\"the forest star\") or humorous names like \"garagenkorva\" (a pun from \"garage\" and \"Koskenkorva\") and \"Folksprit\" (booze of the people). As the desired product is a neutral spirit (resembling vodka), the \"mash\" is typically a mix of sugar and yeast in water which gets a simple distillation followed by filtration in activated charcoal after being diluted to 30%–50% ABV as higher strengths lessens the efficiency of the filtering. Sometimes freeze distillation is used to make apple brandy or other drinks with lower alcohol content. Unlicensed manufacture, transfer and possession of distilled alcohol is illegal in Sweden, as is the manufacture, transfer and possession of stills or parts of stills intended for unlicensed manufacture of alcohol. The manufacture, transfer and possession of mash intended for this purpose is also illegal. Due to relaxed import regulation since 2005, business has declined. Moonshine is most socially accepted in the countryside, where it's produced for own consumption rather than for sale.\n\nIn Switzerland, absinthe was banned in 1910, but underground distillation continued throughout the 20th century. The Swiss constitutional ban on absinthe was repealed in 2000 during a general overhaul of the national constitution, but the prohibition was written into ordinary law instead. Later that law was also repealed, so from 1 March 2005, absinthe is again legal in its country of origin, after nearly a century of prohibition. Absinthe is now not only sold in Switzerland, but is once again distilled in its Val-de-Travers birthplace, with Kübler and La Clandestine Absinthe among the first new brands to emerge, albeit with an underground heritage.\nThe alcohol contents variation of those legal absinthes in their first few years is interesting to note. Whereas pre-2005 bootleg absinthe usually clocked in at 65–70% alcohol by volume (ABV), the first few legal absinthes were aligned on the 42–45% ABV of other common domestic spirits such as fruit schnapps. This proved lacking in taste intensity for a drink that is drunk watered down as a rule, and by 2010 most Swiss absinthes contained something on the lines of 54% ABV, a few being back to the pre-2005 strength that is 65%, sometimes up to 72% ABV.\n\nIn Thailand, home-brewed alcohol, most commonly distilled from glutinous rice, is called \"lao khao\" (เหล้าขาว; literally \"white liquor\") or officially \"sura khao\" (สุราขาว). It is sometimes mixed with various herbs to produce a medicinal drink called \"yadong\" (ยาดอง; literally \"fermented herb (in alcohol)\").\n\nYadong is prepared by mixing \"lao khao\" with various herbs and allowing the mixture to ferment for 2–4 weeks before use. Some people claim that it helps them regain strength. These days you can find instant yadong mixes that significantly reduce the time it takes to produce the final product.\n\nIn Trinidad and Tobago, an illegally distilled rum is produced, known as ba-bash, bush rum or mountain dew. It is primarily made from fermented sugar cane. The \"stills\" used are very similar to those used in North America. Although ba-bash is illegal in Trinidad and Tobago it is readily available if contacts are right.\n\nBoukha is a spirit produced from figs in Tunisia. Its name means 'alcohol vapor' in Tunisian Judeo-Arabic dialect. It is obtained by simple distillation of Mediterranean figs from Tunisia. Its alcohol percentage ranges between 36 and 40 percent.\n\nBoukha is consumed dry, room temperature or cold. It can also serve as the basis for many cocktails, flavors and fruit salad or drunk with a meal at room temperature.\n\nTurkish moonshine is called Raki. Sometimes it is flavored with anise. The name however does not imply illegal distilling, as there are legal distilleries that produce raki too. Real \"moonshine\" from clandestine sources that are homemade from grapes, figs, berries or sourcherries are popular in the south called \"Boğma\". A very distinctive source of 100% pure Turkish moonshine made by locals of Arabic descent is the district of Samandağ in Hatay Province, close to Syria. Boğma is also made by and very popular among the Arab population in the city of Adana, especially the suburb of Güneşli.\n\nWaragi is a moonshine gin produced from bananas and often stored in jerrycans. In moonshine form, it is drunk mostly by people who cannot afford commercially available alcohol, although there are several brands that use the term \"waragi\" in their names. In April 2010, more than 80 people were poisoned in the Kambala district after consuming waragi laced with methanol.\n\nWhile home distillation is illegal in the United States, it continues to be practiced, mainly in Appalachia. The product is sometimes called \"white lightning\", because it is not aged and is generally sold at high alcohol proof, often bottled in Mason jars. A typical moonshine still may produce 1000 gallons per week and net $6000 per week for its owner. The simplicity of the process, and the easy availability of key ingredients such as corn and sugar, make enforcement difficult. However, the price advantage that moonshine once held over its legally sold competition has fallen. Nevertheless, over half the retail price of a bottle of distilled spirits typically consists of taxes. With the availability of cheap refined white sugar, moonshiners can make saleable product for a fraction of the price of heavily taxed and legally sold distilled spirits. Some people also use moonshine alcohol for herbal tinctures.\n\nThe number of jurisdictions that ban alcoholic beverage sales has steadily decreased, which means many of former moonshine consumers are much nearer to a legal alcohol sales outlet than before. Many legal distilled beverages, usually neutral spirits or corn whiskey, with names evoking moonshine exist, such as Onyx Moonshine, Virginia Lightning, Georgia Moon Corn Whiskey, Ole Smoky Tennessee Moonshine, and Junior Johnson's Midnight Moon are produced commercially and sold in liquor stores, typically packaged in a clay jug or glass Mason jar. While these products may refer to themselves as \"moonshine,\" any alcohol that is legally sold cannot be accurately called \"moonshine\" by nature of the term.\n\nMoonshining has always been popular in the southeastern part of the United States, especially in farm communities, partly because farmers have the produce (corn, barley, apples, grapes, etc.) to make illegal liquor. In some cases, farmers use produce they cannot sell to make moonshine for a profit. Lengthy prison sentences for those caught manufacturing or distributing illegal alcohol makes moonshiners conceal their still sites in secret locations. Stills are unique contraptions that typically consist of several metal drums, copper pipes, and heat sources that heat the mash of sugar, starch and fruit or grain product. The weight and overall size of stills makes concealment difficult. This has led many moonshiners to hide their still sites in very clever locations; most of these moonshiners take refuge deep in the backwoods of America, in abandoned barns in addition to underground structures and tunnels. A classic example of underground still sites that are still being utilized today is the usage of old abandoned mining tunnels. This idea is said to have started in the old mining caves in Tennessee soon after the civil war. Illegal distillers would use these caves because it provided adequate cover that protected them from being discovered by law enforcement officers. American moonshiners also preferred the use of caves due to the natural abundance of water that the caves provided; which is a key ingredient to moonshine. These caves were used to manufacture moonshine until well into the 20th century.\n\nDuring prohibition (which lasted from 1920 to 1933), the sale, manufacture and distribution of alcohol was severely curtailed. This new legal sanction created a landslide of illegal distribution of liquor and moonshine, which some farmers and illegal distillers would call the golden age of moonshining. Since alcohol was illegal, moonshiners and bootleggers faced a high demand for liquor that allowed them to have a monopoly over the alcohol trade in the United States. The Great Depression—from 1929 to 1939—also contributed to the popularity of moonshining in the United States. During that time of economic hardship, many Americans turned to manufacturing and distributing illegal products. In the southern states, some moonshiners sold their product to bootleggers, who transported it all over the country, often selling to crime syndicates such as that run by Al Capone.\n\nAs early as prohibition, there have been stories of moonshiners using their product as a powerful fuel in their automobiles, usually when evading law-enforcement agencies while delivering their illegal product. The sport of stock car racing got its start when moonshiners would modify their automobiles to outrun federal government revenue agents. Junior Johnson, one of the early stock car racers in the mountains of North Carolina who was associated with running moonshine, has even \"gone legitimate\" by marketing a legally produced grain alcohol, which is made by the first legal distillery in the state. Stokesdale, a town not far from where the distillery is located, has a moonshine still on its official town seal to reflect corn liquor's history in the town's past.\n\nMoonshine made from yeast-fermented rice is called \"rượu,\" which is also the common name for alcohol.\n\nWelsh moonshine is simply called \"Chwisgi\" or \"Llaeth Mwnci\" (monkey milk). The tradition of illicit distilling is not as strong as in Ireland or Scotland.\n"}
{"id": "53698382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53698382", "title": "National Medical Rescue Team (UMKE)", "text": "National Medical Rescue Team (UMKE)\n\nNational Medical Rescue Team (, UMKE) is a governmental emergency service organization for medical assistance in natural disasters and accidents. UMKE is part of the Ministry of Health. It is specialized in medical disaster relief at site. In addition to the first aid at the site of extraordinary eventd, it also provides health care with other medical personnel at nearby hospitals to preserve life, prevent the condition from worsening, or promote recovery. \n\nFollowing the August 17 İzmit and November 12 Düzce earthquakes in Turkey in 1999, a restructuring of the emergency organizations in the country became inevitable. The National Medical Rescue Team was established by a governmental executive order in 2004. With its over 4,900 personnel in 21 refions, and all 81 provinces, it is capable of providing 24/7 service on natural disasters and extraordinary events in and outside the country.\n\nStaff are selected among specialized health care personnel on voluntary basis. Personnel from other governmental or private health organizations can join, and participate at training and exercises at various times during the year. The appointment for participation at disaster relief is ordered by the ministry or the province governor of the event site. To carry out the necessary logistics, transportation and technical works, voluntary support personnel are at service.\n"}
{"id": "3108484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3108484", "title": "Neurogenic inflammation", "text": "Neurogenic inflammation\n\nNeurogenic inflammation is inflammation arising from the local release by afferent neurons of inflammatory mediators such as Substance P, Calcitonin Gene-Related Peptide (CGRP), neurokinin A (NKA), and endothelin-3 (ET-3). TRPA1 channels stimulated by lipopolysaccharide (LPS) may also cause acute neurogenic inflammation.\nOnce released, these neuropeptides induce the release of histamine from adjacent mast cells. In turn, histamine evokes the release of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide; thus, a bidirectional link between histamine and neuropeptides in neurogenic inflammation is established.\n\nNeurogenic inflammation appears to play an important role in the pathogenesis of numerous diseases including migraine, psoriasis, asthma, vasomotor rhinitis, fibromyalgia, eczema, rosacea, dystonia, and multiple chemical sensitivity.\nIn migraine, stimulation of the trigeminal nerve causes neurogenic inflammation via release of neuropeptides including Substance P, nitric oxide, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, 5-HT, Neurokinin A and CGRP. leading to a \"sterile neurogenic inflammation.\"\n\nMagnesium deficiency causes neurogenic inflammation in a rat model. Researchers have theorized that since substance P which appears at day five of induced magnesium deficiency, is known to stimulate in turn the production of other inflammatory cytokines including IL-1, Interleukin 6 (IL-6), and TNF-alpha (TNFα), which begin a sharp rise at day 12, substance P is a key in the path from magnesium deficiency to the subsequent cascade of neuro-inflammation. In a later study, researchers provided rats dietary levels of magnesium that were reduced but still within the range of dietary intake found in the human population, and observed an increase in substance P, TNF alpha (TNFα) and Interleukin-1 beta (IL-1β), followed by exacerbated bone loss. These and other data suggest that deficient dietary magnesium intake, even at levels not uncommon in humans, may trigger neurogenic inflammation and lead to an increased risk of osteoporosis.\n\nAs of September 2018, two CGRP blockers have been approved by the FDA for the treatment of migraine. Additional CGRP blockers are progressing through clinical trials. \n\nAnticipating later botox therapy for migraine, early work by Jancsó \"et al.\" found some success in treatment using denervation or pretreatment with capsaicin to prevent uncomfortable symptoms of neurogenic inflammation.\n\nA recent (2010) study of the treatment of migraine with CGRP blockers shows promise. In early trials, the first oral nonpeptide CGRP antagonist, MK-0974 (Telcagepant), was shown effective in the treatment of migraine attacks, but elevated liver enzymes in two participants were found. Other therapies and other links in the neurogenic inflammatory pathway for interruption of disease are under study, including migraine therapies.\n\nNoting that botulinum toxin has been shown to have an effect on inhibiting neurogenic inflammation, and evidence suggesting the role of neurogenic inflammation in the pathogenesis of psoriasis, the University of Minnesota has a pilot clinical trial underway to follow up on the observation that patients treated with botulinum toxin for dystonia had dramatic improvement in psoriasis.\n\nAstelin (Azelastine) \"is indicated for symptomatic treatment of vasomotor rhinitis including rhinorrhea, nasal congestion, and post nasal drip in adults and children 12 years of age and older.\"\n\nStatins appear to \"decrease expression of the proinflammatory neuropeptides calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P in sensory neurons,\" and so might be of use in treating diseases presenting with predominant neurogenic inflammation.\n\nIn a 2012 article in \"Nature Neuroscience\" Chiu \"et al.\" discuss the development of science related to neurogenic inflammation and provide a graphic illustrating key discoveries leading toward the current understanding of neurogenic inflammation, its mechanisms, and the conditions caused by its disorder.\n\n"}
{"id": "37701966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37701966", "title": "Nøklevann", "text": "Nøklevann\n\nNøklevann is a lake in Østmarka in Oslo, Norway. It has a surface area of 0.8 km², and is 163 meters above sea level. The lake drains through Ljanselva to Bunnefjorden. It is a former drinking water supply for Oslo.\n"}
{"id": "33654045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33654045", "title": "Paediatric-use marketing authorisation", "text": "Paediatric-use marketing authorisation\n\nPaediatric-use marketing authorisations (PUMA) are granted by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for medical products that are intended exclusively for paediatric use, that is, for use in patients younger than 18 years. Like ordinary EMA marketing authorisations, a PUMA approval is valid in all countries of the European Economic Area (the European Union as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway). The PUMA process was established to make it more profitable for pharmaceutical companies to market drugs for children. For this purpose, new data used for PUMA approved drugs are protected for 10 years, and the applications are partially exempt from fees.\n\nIn September 2011, the first drug was approved under this process. It was Buccolam, a buccal application form of midazolam for the treatment of seizures.\n"}
{"id": "37663575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37663575", "title": "Permanent Representative of Tanzania to the United Nations", "text": "Permanent Representative of Tanzania to the United Nations\n\nThis is a list of the Permanent Representatives of the United Republic of Tanzania to the United Nations. The current office holder is Modest Jonathan Mero.\n\n"}
{"id": "12636929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12636929", "title": "Pre-labor", "text": "Pre-labor\n\nPre-labor, also called \"prodromal labor\", consists of the early signs before labor starts. It is the body's preparation for real labor.\n\nProdromal labor has been misnamed as “false labor.\" Prodromal labor begins much as traditional labor but does not progress to the birth of the baby. Not everyone feels this stage of labor, though it does always occur. However, this does not mean that every woman will experience every symptom. The term is used to describe a cluster of physical changes that may take place in a pregnant woman before she goes into \"real\" labor, such as an increase in blood volume (sometimes resulting in edema), Braxton Hicks contractions, the presence of colostrum in the breasts, and the dislodging of the mucous plug that has sealed the cervix during the pregnancy.\n\nThe term \"false labor\" is sometimes used to describe a cluster of Braxton Hicks contractions that are mistaken for real labor.\n\nThe term \"false labor\" and \"false pains\" are sometimes considered equivalent.\n\n"}
{"id": "25212610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25212610", "title": "Qualified Person Responsible For Pharmacovigilance", "text": "Qualified Person Responsible For Pharmacovigilance\n\nIn the European Union, the Qualified Person Responsible For Pharmacovigilance (QPPV) is an individual, usually an employee of a pharmaceutical company, who is personally responsible for the safety of the human pharmaceutical products marketed by that company in the EU. This function was established in 2004 by article 23 of regulation (EC) No 726/2004. The article establishes that the holder of a marketing authorization for a drug for human use must have a QPPV. When a company submits an application for permission to bring a medicinal product onto the market, the company submits a description of its system for monitoring the safety of the product in actual use (a pharmacovigilance system) and proof that the services of a QPPV are in place.\n\n\"The holder of an authorisation for a medicinal product for human use granted in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation shall have permanently and continuously at his disposal an appropriately qualified person responsible for pharmacovigilance.\"\n\nPer Article 23, the QPPV is responsible for:\n\nVolume 9A provides further guidance regarding these responsibilities of the QPPV (Part I, Chapter 1.2, Section 1.2.1: The Role and Responsibilities of the Qualified Person Responsible for Pharmacovigilance). Per Volume 9A, the QPPV is responsible for \"overall pharmacovigilance for all medicinal products for which the company holds marketing authorisations within the EU\", and specifically for:\n\nThe QPPV must reside in the EU, and should be permanently and continuously at the disposal of the MAH. Each company (i.e. Applicant/Marketing Authorisation Holder or group of Marketing Authorisation Holders using a common pharmacovigilance system) should appoint one QPPV responsible for overall pharmacovigilance for all medicinal products for which the company holds marketing authorisations within the EU.\n\nDetailed information on the role and responsibilities of the QPPV, and guidance for a Marketing Authorisation Holder on how to adequately support the QPPV are specified in Guideline on good pharmacovigilance practices (GVP; Module I – Pharmacovigilance systems and their quality systems).\" At a minimum the QPPV should be appropriately qualified, with documented experience in all aspects of pharmacovigilance in order to fulfil the responsibilities and tasks of the post. If the QPPV is not medically qualified, access to a medically qualified person should be available.\n\nIn addition, there are national regulations in some EU member states that also require a nominated individual in that country who has specific legal obligations as a QPPV at a national level.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39780436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39780436", "title": "Rethinking Madness", "text": "Rethinking Madness\n\nRethinking Madness: Towards a Paradigm Shift In Our Understanding and Treatment of Psychosis (Sky’s Edge Publishing, 2012) is a book by the psychologist Paris Williams which explores creative ways of dealing with madness (psychosis). Williams says that psychotic experiences, which cause significant distress, typically occur deep within the mind. Given suitable conditions, this process can often result in a positive outcome, but Williams avoids the romantic notion that psychosis is always beneficial. Much of what Williams says is in close accord with a recovery approach.\n\nWilliams says that the term \"psychosis\" has many meanings, and the definitions that have been put forward are controversial. Even the DSM-IV-TR, says that \"the term psychosis has historically received a number of definitions, none of which has achieved universal acceptance\". \n\nWilliams says that the diagnosis of schizophrenia is also the subject of much debate:\n\nDespite over a century of intensive research, no biological markers or physiological tests that can be used to diagnose schizophrenia have been found, its etiology continues to be uncertain, and we don’t even have clear evidence that the concept of schizophrenia is a valid construct. However, diagnosis and treatment based upon the diagnosis continues unhindered by these serious problems.\n\n"}
{"id": "30028527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30028527", "title": "Shapoor Reporter", "text": "Shapoor Reporter\n\nShapoor Reporter or Sir Shapoor Reporter KBE (1 January 1920 - 2005) was a British intelligence agent in Iran who had an important role in the 1953 Iranian coup d'état against the prime minister of the time, Mohammad Mosaddegh.\n\nShapoor Reporter was born in Tehran in 1920. His father, Ardeshir Reporter, was an Indian Parsi and a British intelligence officer who came from Mumbai to Tehran in 1893 as the agent of Parsis and developed friendships in the British Legation and began to work for the British. \n\nEducated in Westminster and Kings College, Shapoor Reporter graduated in Political Science and Literature. In 1943 Shapoor Reporter was sent to India to set up the Radio Delhi programs being broadcast in Persian. In 1945 he was assigned to serve in Bahrain, and after one year was sent to China.\n\nIn 1947 Shapoor Reporter was sent to Tehran to serve as secretary to the first Indian ambassador in Tehran. During the oil nationalization in Iran, he was accorded as assistant to the U.S. ambassador Loy W. Henderson for three years, during which he had a role in the 1953 military coup. As a reward, he was offered a position in the State Department and U.S. citizenship by the U.S. secretary of state for \"his brilliant services to the common cause\". Then he was appointed as liaison officer for Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, the Shah of Iran.\n\nShapoor Reporter became a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1972, shortly after acting as an intermediary in a £100 million arms sale from the United Kingdom to Iran, for which he also received £1 million from the UK Ministry of Defence. In a 1976 bribes trial in London, he was described as \"Mr. Fixit\" and he was said to have received £1 million commission on one arms deal. Shapoor Reporter died of prostate cancer in Argentina in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "55703887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55703887", "title": "Society for Acupuncture Research", "text": "Society for Acupuncture Research\n\nThe Society for Acupuncture Research is a Winston–Salem, North Carolina–based medical society dedicated to advancing research into acupuncture and related interventions. It was founded in 1993 by Patricia Culliton, Hannah Bradford, and Stephen Birch, and was originally based in Bethesda, Maryland. Its current co-presidents are Vitaly Napadow and Robert Davis. \n"}
{"id": "36558592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36558592", "title": "The Helping Hand (halfway house)", "text": "The Helping Hand (halfway house)\n\nThe Helping Hand (also known as THH) is a halfway house in Singapore, registered as a Singapore non-governmental organization. The stated objective of the organization is to \"transform lives of ex-offenders through the love of Jesus Christ into restored and hardworking individuals, re-integrating them back into society as stable and contributing citizens\"\n\nThe Helping Hand was founded in 1987 by Robert Yeo, a Heroin addict. It is registered as a Voluntary Welfare Organization under the Singapore Ministry of Community Development, Youth and Sports with an Institution of Public Character Status.\n\nThe organization aims to rehabilitate drug offenders through its stated method of 4 types of therapy - Spiritual, Work, Social and Physical. Drug offenders in therapy (called the Residents) typically undergo 3–6 months of treatment, during which they will receive individual and group counselling. Residents stay at The Helping Hand premises (located in Serangoon) throughout their therapy.\n\nThe Helping Hand receives operational cash primarily from sales from the furniture business that it operates. The prices are priced at 10 percent to 20 percent lower than the market rate. It can thus be defined as a social enterprise. Its premises at Serangoon serves as a warehouse where it showcases hundreds of Indonesian made Teak furniture to the public. The Helping Hand also gets income from its moving services. They hire Residents as workers for both services.\n\nIt was reported in 2011 that even though more and more people are engaging its services, The Helping Hand still faces stigma from its businesses as most of its workers are ex-addicts.\n\nThe Helping Hand also engages in many side ventures started by Residents. These services include computer repairs and gardening services. The main aim of these ventures is to help former offenders instead of generating profits. These ventures are usually started when Residents indicate interest in a certain business they wish to explore.\n"}
{"id": "5224169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5224169", "title": "Uğur Uluocak", "text": "Uğur Uluocak\n\nYaşar Uğur Uluocak (1962 – 2 July 2003) was a Turkish outdoorsman, mountaineer, photographer, and editor.\n\nBorn in 1962 in Ankara, Turkey, Uğur attended Saint Joseph High School in Istanbul, and graduated in Mechanical Engineering from Istanbul Technical University.\n\nUğur started mountain climbing in 1984 with the mountaineering club at Istanbul Technical University . Uğur was a complete sportsman. He competed four years in rowing, ranking in first place. He was a middle and long distance runner for eight years, and a scuba diver and cyclist for the last two years. As a globally known mountaineer, he trained many young sportsmen both in theoretical and practical ways.\n\nFrom 1999 on, Uğur worked as a photographer, expedition coordinator and editor for the Turkish nature and outdoor sports magazine \"Atlas\". He not only wrote about his mountaineering adventures but also on mountaineering ethics and history with his friend Ahmet Köksal.\n\nUğur was an influential figure in the Turkish mountaineering community, with a very strong and dedicated personality and an extremely high intellectual capacity. He was fluent in five languages.\n\nProfessionally, he was a lecturer at the Marmara University in Istanbul and was also an active member of the Communist Party of Turkey for over 20 years. \n\nUğur Uluocak died on 2 July 2003 while on a descent in the Alarcha Mountain in Kyrgyzstan when a rock broke off and he took a 4200m fall. His body was recovered by his teammates Haldun Ülkenli and Alper Işın Duran and brought to his homeland for burial. Uğur is the second Turkish mountaineer after Ali Kepenek to have died in a foreign country while climbing a mountain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2862750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2862750", "title": "Varina Farms", "text": "Varina Farms\n\nVarina Farms, also known as Varina Plantation or Varina Farms Plantation or \"Varina on the James\", is a plantation established by John Rolfe on the James River about 40 miles upstream from the first settlement at Jamestown in the Virginia Colony, and across the river from Sir Thomas Dale's 1611 settlement at Henricus.\n\nIn 1612, English colonist John Rolfe introduced the cultivation of a special strain of tobacco for export to England, which was much better-liked by the Europeans than a harsher form which grew naturally in Virginia. As his tobacco became a cash crop for the struggling colony's economy, he established a plantation estate at Varina Farms about 45 miles upstream from the first settlement at Jamestown and across the river from Sir Thomas Dale's 1611 settlement at the progressive community in Henricus. Henricus was developed as a potential replacement for the shortcomings of the Jamestown location.\n\nVarina Farms Plantation was named for a mild variety of the tobacco from Spain which was similar to the non-native strain Rolfe used in developing his successful product. The plantation became the home of Rolfe and his second wife, Rebecca (Pocahontas) whose father was the Powhatan tribe's leader for two years following their marriage in 1614. It was the birthplace of their son, Thomas Rolfe in 1615.\n\nAs \"Varina Plantation\", an property was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1977. At that time it included two contributing buildings and one other contributing sites.\n\nIn modern times, Varina Farm (as it is now called) is still actively cultivated as a working farm, and is privately owned. However, the site of the former town of Varina can be seen from Interstate 295 to the east just north of the Varina-Enon Bridge.\n"}
{"id": "32654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32654", "title": "Veterinary medicine", "text": "Veterinary medicine\n\nVeterinary medicine is the branch of medicine that deals with the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of disease, disorder and injury in non-human animals. The scope of veterinary medicine is wide, covering all animal species, both domesticated and wild, with a wide range of conditions which can affect different species.\n\nVeterinary medicine is widely practiced, both with and without professional supervision. Professional care is most often led by a veterinary physician (also known as a vet, veterinary surgeon or veterinarian), but also by paraveterinary workers such as veterinary nurses or technicians. This can be augmented by other paraprofessionals with specific specialisms such as animal physiotherapy or dentistry, and species relevant roles such as farriers.\n\nVeterinary science helps human health through the monitoring and control of zoonotic disease (infectious disease transmitted from non-human animals to humans), food safety, and indirectly through human applications from basic medical research. They also help to maintain food supply through livestock health monitoring and treatment, and mental health by keeping pets healthy and long living. Veterinary scientists often collaborate with epidemiologists, and other health or natural scientists depending on type of work. Ethically, veterinarians are usually obliged to look after animal welfare.\n\nArcheological evidence, in the form of a cow skull upon which trepanation had been performed, shows that people were performing veterinary procedures in the Neolithic (3400-3000 BCE). \n\nThe Egyptian \"Papyrus of Kahun\" (Twelfth Dynasty of Egypt) is the first extant record of veterinary medicine. \nThe Shalihotra Samhita, dating from the time of Ashoka, is an early Indian veterinary treatise. The edicts of Asoka read: \"Everywhere King Piyadasi (Asoka) made two kinds of medicine (चिकित्सा) available, medicine for people and medicine for animals. Where there were no healing herbs for people and animals, he ordered that they be bought and planted.\"\n\"Hippiatrica\" is a Byzantine compilation of hippiatrics, dated to the 5th or 6th century. \n\nThe first attempts to organize and regulate the practice of treating animals tended to focus on horses because of their economic significance. In the Middle Ages, farriers combined their work in horseshoeing with the more general task of \"horse doctoring\". \nThe Arabic tradition of \"Bayṭara\", or \"Shiyāt al-Khayl\", originates with the treatise of Ibn Akhī Hizām (fl. late 9th century).\n\nIn 1356, the Lord Mayor of London, concerned at the poor standard of care given to horses in the city, requested that all farriers operating within a seven-mile radius of the City of London form a \"fellowship\" to regulate and improve their practices. This ultimately led to the establishment of the Worshipful Company of Farriers in 1674.\n\nMeanwhile, Carlo Ruini's book \"Anatomia del Cavallo,\" (\"Anatomy of the Horse\") was published in 1598. It was the first comprehensive treatise on the anatomy of a non-human species.\n\nThe first veterinary school was founded in Lyon, France in 1762 by Claude Bourgelat. According to Lupton, after observing the devastation being caused by cattle plague to the French herds, Bourgelat devoted his time to seeking out a remedy. This resulted in his founding a veterinary school in Lyon in 1761, from which establishment he dispatched students to combat the disease; in a short time, the plague was stayed and the health of stock restored, through the assistance rendered to agriculture by veterinary science and art.\" The school received immediate international recognition in the eighteenth century and its pedagogical model drew on the existing fields of human medicine, natural history, and comparative anatomy.\n\nThe Odiham Agricultural Society was founded in 1783 in England to promote agriculture and industry, and played an important role in the foundation of the veterinary profession in Britain. A founding member, Thomas Burgess, began to take up the cause of animal welfare and campaign for the more humane treatment of sick animals. A 1785 Society meeting resolved to \"promote the study of Farriery upon rational scientific principles.\"\n\nThe physician James Clark wrote a treatise entitled \"Prevention of Disease\" in which he argued for the professionalization of the veterinary trade, and the establishment of veterinary colleges. This was finally achieved in 1790, through the campaigning of Granville Penn, who persuaded the Frenchman, Benoit Vial de St. Bel to accept the professorship of the newly established Veterinary College in London. The Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons was established by royal charter in 1844. Veterinary science came of age in the late 19th century, with notable contributions from Sir John McFadyean, credited by many as having been the founder of modern Veterinary research.\n\nIn the United States, the first schools were established in the early 19th century in Boston, New York and Philadelphia. In 1879, Iowa Agricultural College became the first land grant college to establish a school of veterinary medicine.\n\nVeterinary care and management is usually led by a veterinary physician (usually called a vet, veterinary surgeon or veterinarian). This role is the equivalent of a doctor in human medicine, and usually involves post-graduate study and qualification.\n\nIn many countries, the local nomenclature for a vet is a protected term, meaning that people without the prerequisite qualifications and/or registration are not able to use the title, and in many cases, the activities that may be undertaken by a vet (such as animal treatment or surgery) are restricted only to those people who are registered as vet. For instance, in the United Kingdom, as in other jurisdictions, animal treatment may only be performed by registered vets (with a few designated exceptions, such as paraveterinary workers), and it is illegal for any person who is not registered to call themselves a vet or perform any treatment.\n\nMost vets work in clinical settings, treating animals directly. These vets may be involved in a general practice, treating animals of all types; may be specialized in a specific group of animals such as companion animals, livestock, laboratory animals, zoo animals or horses; or may specialize in a narrow medical discipline such as surgery, dermatology, laboratory animal medicine, or internal medicine.\n\nAs with healthcare professionals, vets face ethical decisions about the care of their patients. Current debates within the profession include the ethics of purely cosmetic procedures on animals, such as declawing of cats, docking of tails, cropping of ears and debarking on dogs.\n\nA wide range of surgeries and operations are performed on various types of animals, but not all of them are carried out by vets. In a case in Iran, for instance, an eye surgeon managed to perform a successful cataract surgery on a rooster for the first time in the world.\n\nParaveterinary workers, including veterinary nurses, technicians and assistants, either assist vets in their work, or may work within their own scope of practice, depending on skills and qualifications, including in some cases, performing minor surgery.\n\nThe role of paraveterinary workers is less homogeneous globally than that of a vet, and qualification levels, and the associated skill mix, vary widely.\n\nA number of professions exist within the scope of veterinary medicine, but which may not necessarily be performed by vets or veterinary nurses. This includes those performing roles which are also found in human medicine, such as practitioners dealing with musculoskeletal disorders, including osteopaths, chiropractors and physiotherapists.\n\nThere are also roles which are specific to animals, but which have parallels in human society, such as animal grooming and animal massage.\n\nSome roles are specific to a species or group of animals, such as farriers, who are involved in the shoeing of horses, and in many cases have a major role to play in ensuring the medical fitness of the horse.\n\nVeterinary research includes research on prevention, control, diagnosis, and treatment of diseases of animals and on the basic biology, welfare, and care of animals. Veterinary research transcends species boundaries and includes the study of spontaneously occurring and experimentally induced models of both human and animal disease and research at human-animal interfaces, such as food safety, wildlife and ecosystem health, zoonotic diseases, and public policy.\n\nAs in medicine, randomized controlled trials are fundamental also in veterinary medicine to establish the effectiveness of a treatment. However, clinical veterinary research is far behind human medical research, with fewer randomized controlled trials, that have a lower quality and that are mostly focused on research animals. Possible improvement consists in creation of network for inclusion of private veterinary practices in randomized controlled trials.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27837547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27837547", "title": "Water Regulations Advisory Scheme", "text": "Water Regulations Advisory Scheme\n\nThe Water Regulations Advisory Scheme (WRAS) is a conformance mark that demonstrates that an item complies with high standards set out by water regulations promulgated in 1999 in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe WRAS term has become a 'shorthand' within the UK covering three separate areas.\n\nThe first is the WRAS company itself which is a subscription membership company. The subscribers of WRAS are the 26 UK Water Suppliers.\n\nThe second is used as shorthand for 'meeting the Water Regulations of 1999' (which is not in fact the case).\n\nThirdly, it is used for approved plumbing fittings.\n\nIt is enforced by the UK water supply companies. It covers all plumbing systems, water fittings, and equipment supplied, or to be supplied, with water from the public water supply. It is \"not\" illegal to install a product such as water fittings in the UK without the WRAS mark but you may have to prove compliance in other ways. It is legal to design, manufacture, import or trade in non-approved items. It is legal to use non-approved fittings but only in certain specific areas, typically where human health could not be compromised.\n\nThe Water Regulations 1999 are enforced as stated above by the UK water supply companies (who essentially act as appointed/authorised enforcement for the UK Government) and this is the fundamental legal requirement. The WRAS approval number is a way of proving that the item meets PART of the above legislation. So a plumbing fitting might be tested and approved by WRAS - but if installed and/or operated incorrectly might breach the Water Regulations 1999.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "317507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317507", "title": "Well-bird exam", "text": "Well-bird exam\n\nA well-bird exam is a check-up for birds which are assumed to be healthy. These examinations are frequently performed by an avian veterinarian when the bird is first acquired and annually thereafter.\n\nThe veterinarian will likely ask the owner about the bird's housing, diet, and activities, then examine the birds feathers, eyes, ears, and nares for signs of illness. He or she will probably acquire a Gram's stain, and may also clip the bird's wings and toenails if requested. He or she will likely offer advice about caring for the pet.\n\nBirds often hide their illnesses very well, and an avian veterinarian may see symptoms of illness that are not observable to the untrained eye. Periodic examination serves as a baseline for comparison for future reference. If an examined bird ever becomes sick and requires the care of a veterinarian, he or she will already have much data about the bird's weight (one of the earliest indicators of illness in birds), diet, and care.\n\n"}
{"id": "37227370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37227370", "title": "Zaw Myint Maung", "text": "Zaw Myint Maung\n\nZaw Myint Maung () is a Burmese politician and former political prisoner who currently serves as Chief Minister of Mandalay Region and Mandalay Region Hluttaw member of parliament for Amarapura Township.\n\nIn the Burmese general election, 1990, he was elected as a Pyithu Hluttaw MP, winning a majority of 21,119 (66% of the votes), but was never allowed to assume his seat.\n\nZaw Myint Maung graduated with a medical degree from the Mandalay Institute of Medicine in 1979. During his medical career, he worked in Sagaing Division's Yuthitgyi Hospital and served as a chemistry lecturer at Mandalay University from 1983 to 1988.\n\nOn 22 November 1990, he was arrested under Penal Code Article 122 and sentenced to 25 years, for attending meetings on forming a provisional government. In March 1996, he was sentenced to a further seven years under the 1950 Emergency Provision Act, for publishing a magazine celebrating the 75th anniversary of Rangoon University and another called \"New Blood Wave\". In total, he served a 19-year sentence at a prison in Myitkyina. He was released on 21 February 2009.\n\n"}
