{"id": "2368374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2368374", "title": "ASEAN Agreement on Transboundary Haze Pollution", "text": "ASEAN Agreement on Transboundary Haze Pollution\n\nThe ASEAN Agreement on Transboundary Haze Pollution is a legally binding environmental agreement signed in 2002 by the member states of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations to reduce haze pollution in Southeast Asia. The Agreement recognises that transboundary haze pollution which result from land and/or forest fires should be mitigated through concerted national efforts and international co-operation.\n\nAs of September 2014, all ten ASEAN countries have ratified the haze agreement.\n\nThe agreement is a reaction to an environmental crisis that hit Southeast Asia in the late 1990s. The crisis was mainly caused by land clearing for agricultural uses via open burning on the Indonesian island of Sumatra. Satellite images confirmed the presence of hot spots throughout Kalimantan/Borneo, Sumatra, the Malay Peninsula and several other places, with an estimated 45,000 square kilometres of forest and land burnt. Malaysia, Singapore and to a certain extent, Thailand and Brunei were particularly badly affected.\n\nThe haze is nearly an annual occurrence in some ASEAN nations. Dangerous levels of haze usually coincide with the dry season from June to September when the southwest monsoon is in progress. Southwest monsoon winds shift the haze from Sumatra, Indonesia towards the Malay Peninsula and Singapore, sometimes creating a thick haze that can last for weeks.\n\nThe agreement was established in 2002, though has some foundation in a 1990 agreement made among ASEAN Ministers of Environment which called for efforts leading to the harmonisation of transboundary pollution prevention and abatement practices.\n\nThe treaty also builds on the 1995 ASEAN Cooperation Plan on Transboundary Pollution and the 1997 Regional Haze Action Plan. This treaty is an attempt to bring the action plan into function.\n\nThe agreement is managed by the Ministers of Environment and other representatives from the respective ASEAN countries. Meetings are coordinated under the ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community Council (ASCC), one of three councils, subsidiary to the ASEAN summit and its chair.\n\nThe treaty calls for haze to be mitigated through concerted national efforts and intensified regional and international co-operation in the context of sustainable development. This is to be done through monitoring and prevention activities.\n\nThe official procedure or system of rules that informs this agreement is the ‘ASEAN Way’ set of region norms and codes of diplomatic conduct characterised by principles of non-interference, consultation, consensus, quiet diplomacy, symbolism, and organizational minimalism.\n\nIn October 2013 ASEAN leaders approved a joint haze monitoring system at a cost of $100,000 USD. Additionally, Singapore has offered to start working directly with Indonesian farmers to encourage sustainable practices and minimise the problem over time by \"tackling the haze issue at its root\". Singapore has worked with farmers in this way in Indonesia's Jambi province in the past.\n\nIndonesia, as the primary haze producing party to the problem, was the last ASEAN country to ratify the agreement in 2014, 12 years after it was first signed in 2002. Concerns remain over the ability of the Indonesian government to monitor and effect changes to the problem.\n\nThe treaty failed to prevent the annual return of the haze between 2004 and 2010, and again in 2013, 2014 and 2015. Recently Indonesia has been placed as the world’s third largest greenhouse gas emitter with 75% of its emissions stemming from deforestation.\n\nThe ‘haze treaty’ is accused of being vague and lacking enforcement mechanisms or strong instruments for dispute-resolution. However, ASEAN has clearly tried to depart from its institutional culture in attempt to achieve deeper co-operation on this issue. This is evident in that this is a legally binding treaty, something ASEAN has vehemently opposed in the past.\n\nThe treaty is ill-served by the ASEAN style of regional engagement which adamantly protects national sovereignty. The result is that states are compelled to act in their own self-interest rather than regional interests. Additionally, the close relationships between key economic actors and political elites have meant maintenance of the status quo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52036470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52036470", "title": "Act of September 25, 1874", "text": "Act of September 25, 1874\n\nThe Act of September 25, 1874 elevated to constitutional status the Reform Laws. Sebastián Lerdo de Tejada enacted through a decree on September 25, 1873, a series of additions and amendments to the Mexican Constitution of 1857, concerning the Reform Laws that had decreed the separation of church and state.\n\nThrough this law the reform process that secularized two acts previously faced the church and marriage oath and consolidated as civil actions where the State was the guarantor of compliance was completed.\n\nThe liberal reforms were led by President Benito Juárez. These led to the conflict between conservatives and liberalesque detonated in the Reform War. Shortly after the outbreak of the French intervention in Mexico, which is a continuation of the same conflict. \nThe articles that make up this law are:\n1. The State and the Church are independent of each other. The Congress can not enact laws, establishing or prohibiting any religion.\n2. Marriage is a civil contract. This and other acts of the civil status of persons are the exclusive competence of officials and authorities of civil order, under the terms provided by law, and will have the force and validity that they attribute to them.\n3. No religious institution can acquire real property or capital taxes on them, with the sole exception established in Article 27 of the Constitution.\n4. The simple promise to speak truth and to fulfill the obligations that are contracted, will replace the religious oath with its effects and penalties\n5. No one can be forced to give personal works without the right retribution and without their full consent. The State can not allow any contract, covenant or agreement that has as its object the impairment, loss or irrevocable sacrifice of the freedom of man, whether due to work, education or religious vote, to be carried out. The law consequently does not recognize monastic Orders, nor can it allow its establishment, whatever the denomination or object with which they wish to be erected. Nor can it be accepted that a man agrees to his banishment or exile.\n\nThe subject specialist Dr. Marta Eugenia Garcia Ugarte notes that the content of the law is \"the establishment of marriage as a civil contract, the ban on religious institutions to acquire real estate or capital taxes on them, and replacement of religious oath for the simple promise to tell the truth and fulfill the obligations. \"\n\nWhen they rose to constitutional rank the Reform Laws a long process that transformed the church-state relations closed. The response of the church through the Archbishop of Mexico, Pelagio Antonio de Labastida y Dávalos, followed conminado the Catholic faithful not to swear laws, and even promoted the ignorance of the 1857 Constitution.\n"}
{"id": "36491794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36491794", "title": "Animals, Property, and the Law", "text": "Animals, Property, and the Law\n\nAnimals, Property, and the Law (1995) is a book by Gary Francione, Distinguished Professor of Law and Nicholas deB. Katzenbach Scholar of Law & Philosophy at Rutgers School of Law–Newark. The book was the first extensive jurisprudential treatment of animal rights.\nThe book is divided into an introduction, which describes Francione's concept of \"legal welfarism,\" followed by three parts: (1) \"The Status of Animals as Property, (2) \"A General Application of the Theory: Anticruelty Statutes,\" and (3) \"A Specific Application of the Theory: The Regulation of Animal Experimenation.\" The epilogue is entitled, \"An Alternative to Legal Welfarism?\"\n\nIn part 1, Francione argues that nonhuman animals are the personal property, or \"chattel\", of their owners, even if recognized as a special kind of property. As such, they cannot themselves possess legal rights, because they are the objects of the exercise of someone else's rights. Whenever the interests of an animal are balanced against the interests of the owner (assuming the animal is recognized as having interests), the owner's interests almost always prevail, no matter how trivial they might be. Francione compares the situation to the treatment of slaves in the United States in the 18th and 19th centuries, where legislation existed that ostensibly protected them, while the courts ignored that the institution of slavery rendered that protection largely meaningless.\n\nHe argues further that the United States Animal Welfare Act is an example of symbolic, as opposed to functional, legislation, relying on concepts described by John Dwyer in 1990. It is symbolic, he writes (quoting Dwyer), because it is an example of a law where \"the legislature has failed to address the administrative and political constraints that will block implementation of the statute.\"\n\nProfessor Priscilla Cohn gave the book a favorable review, writing \"Francione makes us analyze our views on animals, cruelty, what sort of pain is 'necessary,' what kind of a society allows defenseless creatures to be shot, burned, prodded, beaten, etc. His explanations are always thoughtful, his analyses penetrating, his examples interesting and entertaining.\" Antonia Layard of \"Environmental Values\" was more critical, as she felt that Francione experienced difficulty when he \"attempts to put something in its place, for he does not describe how Regan's theory of animal rights might be implemented in practice, a contribution most lawyers would expect him to make. In particular, Francione cites Regan to submit that animals should not have equal rights with humans, intertwining this with a statement that they do not have the same rights.\"\n\nThe \"Harvard Law Review\" was also critical, as they felt that the book was a \"thoughtful, wide-ranged study\" but that it \"will do nothing to convert the confirmed speciesist\".\n\n"}
{"id": "20928962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20928962", "title": "Blue discharge", "text": "Blue discharge\n\nA blue discharge (also known as a \"blue ticket\") was a form of administrative military discharge formerly issued by the United States beginning in 1916. It was neither honorable nor dishonorable. The blue ticket became the discharge of choice for commanders seeking to remove homosexual service members from the ranks. They were also issued disproportionately to African Americans.\n\nService members holding a blue discharge were subjected to discrimination in civilian life. They were denied the benefits of the G.I. Bill by the Veterans Administration and had difficulty finding work because employers were aware of the negative connotations of a blue discharge. Following intense criticism in the press—especially the black press, because of the high percentage of African Americans who received blue discharges—and in Congress, the blue discharge was discontinued in 1947, replaced by two new classifications: general and undesirable.\n\nThe blue discharge was created in 1916 to replace two previous discharge classifications, the administrative discharge without honor and the \"unclassified\" discharge. The discharges were printed on blue paper, hence the name. They were also sometimes called \"blue tickets\". One early use of the blue discharge was for service members who had enlisted to fight in World War I while underage, but this practice was abolished by law and all such discharges were upgraded to honorable.\n\nThe United States military had a long-standing policy that service members found to be homosexual or to have engaged in homosexual conduct were to be court-martialed for sodomy, imprisoned and dishonorably discharged. However, with the mobilization of troops following the United States' entry into World War II, it became impractical to convene court-martial boards of commissioned officers and some commanders began issuing administrative discharges instead. Several waves of reform addressing the handling of homosexuals in the military resulted in a 1944 policy directive that called for homosexuals to be committed to military hospitals, examined by psychiatrists, and discharged under Regulation 615-360, section 8 as \"unfit for service\". It is unknown exactly how many gay and lesbian service members were given blue discharges under this regulation, but in 1946 the Army estimated that it had issued between 49,000 and 68,000 blue discharges, with approximately 5,000 of them issued to homosexuals, while the Navy's estimates of blue-discharge homosexuals was around 4,000. The period of time covered by these estimates is unclear.\n\nThe psychiatrists responsible for creating and implementing screening procedures to exclude homosexuals from military service initially supported giving gay service members blue discharges. However, when they learned of the difficulties that blue-ticket holders faced in civilian life, they urged the military to discontinue the practice. William C. Menninger, who served as the Director of the Psychiatry Consultants Division for the Surgeon General of the United States Army from 1944 to 1946, tried to persuade the military to issue honorable discharges to gay service members who had not committed any crimes during their military service.\n\nOne press account said the purpose of administrative blue discharges, \"discharges which are not dishonorable but are based on habits or traits of the individual that make his continuation in service undesirable\", was the need to return soldiers to civilian life as quickly as possible: \"to get the non-disabled soldier back into the nation's economic life with as little delay and red tape as possible, and to help him solve his own personal problems such as unemployment, educational opportunities or finances.\"\n\nThe Veterans Administration (VA), charged with implementing the provisions of the G.I. Bill, denied benefits to blue-discharge veterans, despite the Bill's explicit language that made only a dishonorable discharge grounds for denying benefits to a veteran. In 1945, the VA issued a directive that all blue-discharges for homosexuality would be denied benefits. On December 22, 1955, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit denied an appeal from Raymond W. Longernecker, who had been denied his G.I. Bill benefits by the VA because of his blue discharge. The Court found that the VA had discretion in awarding benefits and that Congress had specifically foreclosed the courts from overruling it. Nevertheless, the Court noted that the denial of benefits should only have occurred if Longernecker had been dishonorably discharged and that the VA Administrator was acting without authority in treating a blue discharge as if it were dishonorable.\nMost employers required that job applicants who had served in the military present their discharge papers as part of the application process. Blue-discharge veterans experienced difficulty in securing employment because many employers were aware that the blue discharge meant that the holder was considered undesirable. Those employers who did not know had access to a list of the Separation Program Numbers or \"spin\" numbers that the military used to classify discharges. At least four such spin numbers indicated a gay-related discharge.\n\nCongress had expressed concern about possible misuse of the blue discharge when it began work on the G.I. Bill in 1944. In discussions about the legislation's details, the American Legion insisted on a specific provision to provide benefits to veterans discharged under any circumstance other than dishonorable. The Legion believed a large number of veterans had been given blue and other less-than-honorable discharges for reasons that it considered unreasonable or trivial. In testimony before the United States Senate, Rear Admiral Randall Jacobs strongly opposed this provision on the grounds that it would undermine morale and remove any incentive to maintain a good service record. Senator Bennett Champ Clark, a sponsor of the bill, dismissed his concerns, calling them \"some of the most stupid, short-sighted objections which could be raised\". Clark went on to say:\nThe Army is giving blue discharges, namely discharges without honor, to those who have had no fault other than they have not shown sufficient aptitude for military service. I say that when the government drafts a man from civil life and puts him in the military service ... and, thereafter, because the man does not show sufficient aptitude gives him a blue discharge, or a discharge without honor, that fact should not be permitted to prevent the man from receiving the benefits to which soldiers are generally entitled.\n\nThe G.I. Bill also provided for discharge review boards to review an appeal of any discharge other than dishonorable. From 1945 until early 1947, these boards routinely upgraded to honorable the blue discharges of homosexual service members who had not committed any known sex acts during their military service. About one-third of all blue discharges reviewed were upgraded to honorable.\n\nAnother minority group disproportionately issued blue discharges were African Americans. Of the 48,603 blue discharges issued by the Army between December 1, 1941, and June 30, 1945, 10,806 were issued to African Americans, or 22.23% of all blue discharges. At this time, African Americans constituted 6.5% of the Army.\n\nIn October 1945, Black-interest newspaper \"The Pittsburgh Courier\" launched a crusade against the discharge and its abuses, calling the discharge \"a vicious instrument that should not be perpetrated against the American Soldier\", and rebuked the Army for \"allowing prejudiced officers to use it as a means of punishing Negro soldiers who do not like specifically unbearable conditions\". The \"Courier\" specifically noted the discrimination faced by homosexual blue-tickets, calling them \"'unfortunates' of the Nation...being preyed upon by the blue discharge\" and demanded to know \"why the Army chooses to penalize these 'unfortunates' who seem most in need of Army benefits and the opportunity to become better citizens under the educational benefits of the GI Bill of Rights\".\n\nThe \"Courier\" printed instructions on how to appeal a blue discharge and warned readers against accepting a blue ticket out of the service because of the negative effect it would likely have on their lives.\n\nIn addition to the \"Courier\", other groups and institutions that decried the punitive use of the blue discharge included the American Legion, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the Congress of Industrial Organizations, and the Veterans Benevolent Association. In the U.S. Senate, the chairman of the Senate Veterans Committee, Sen. Edwin C. Johnson (D-Colorado), read the \"Courier\"'s editorial into the record. On October 29, 1945, noting that a blue discharge meant the veteran had not been convicted and yet had been separated from the military without being able to defend himself, he said: \"There ought not to be a twilight zone between innocence and guilt. Blue discharges are certain to be a headache for Congress from now on.\"\n\nIn response to reports about the disparate treatment of blue-ticket veterans, the House Committee on Military Affairs appointed a special committee to review the Veterans Administration's procedures. The committee, headed by Rep. Carl T. Durham (D-NC), issued its report officially called \"Investigations of the National War Effort\", commonly known as \"Blue Discharges\", on January 30, 1946. The committee expressed its amazement that anyone with a blue discharge would risk further stigmatization by speaking out against the discrimination:\nIn examining case histories of blue-discharge veterans, the committee found that \"the procedure lends itself to dismissals based on prejudice and antagonism\". Further, the committee found that the effects of a blue discharge \"differ little from those of a dishonorable discharge...the discharged man finds it difficult to get or keep a job. The suspicion of society is aroused against him, all the worse in some ways for carrying an atmosphere of mystery.\" The report said that \"nothing could more clearly prove the anomalous and illogical and disingenuous nature of the blue discharge than this policy of the Veterans Administration\". The committee called the system for dealing with blue-ticket veterans \"a squeeze play between the war department and the veterans' administration\" and took the agency to task for assuming \"the right to separate the sheep from the goats\" and \"passing moral verdicts on the history of any soldier\".\n\nTo reform the discharge system the committee recommended:\n\nThe committee also recommended changing the discharge system to four classifications: honorable and dishonorable, with no change in their definitions; \"under honorable conditions\" to replace the blue discharge; and general, to cover separation for misconduct.\n\nDespite the Committee's report, the VA continued to discriminate against homosexual blue-tickets, renewing its 1945 directive in 1946 and again in 1949. Blue discharges were discontinued as of July 1, 1947, and two new headings, general and undesirable, took their place. A general discharge was considered to be under honorable conditions—distinct from an \"honorable discharge\"—and an undesirable discharge was under conditions other than honorable—distinct from a \"dishonorable discharge\". At the same time, the Army changed its regulations to ensure that gay and lesbian service members would not qualify for general discharges. Those found guilty of engaging in homosexual conduct still received dishonorable discharges, while those identified as homosexuals but not to have committed any homosexual acts now received undesirable discharges. By the 1970s, a service member who had not committed any homosexual acts would tend to receive a general discharge, while those found to have engaged in homosexual sex tended to receive undesirable discharges. Gay service members continued to receive a disproportionate percentage of the undesirable discharges issued. This was the \"status quo\" until replaced in 1993 by the policy commonly known as \"don't ask, don't tell\".\n\nIt has been suggested that the large gay populations in port cities like San Francisco, Chicago and New York City are in part the result of the blue discharge. The theory asserts that many gay blue-ticket veterans from smaller urban or rural areas who felt they were unable to return to their home communities because of the shame associated with their discharges relocated to larger areas with established gay subcultures or simply stayed in the city through which they were returned to the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "3050186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3050186", "title": "Capital punishment by the United States military", "text": "Capital punishment by the United States military\n\nCapital punishment is a legal penalty under the U.S. military criminal justice system.\n\nThe U.S. Armed Forces Court of Appeals ruled in 1983 that the military death penalty was unconstitutional, and after new standards intended to rectify the Armed Forces Court of Appeals' objections, the military death penalty was reinstated by an executive order of President Ronald Reagan the following year.\n\nOn 28 July 2008, President George W. Bush approved the execution of Former United States Army Private Ronald A. Gray, who had been convicted in April 1988 of multiple murders and rapes. A month later, Secretary of the Army Pete Geren set an execution date of 10 December 2008 and ordered that Gray be put to death by lethal injection at the Federal Correctional Complex, Terre Haute. The military publicly released Gray's execution date on 20 November 2008. On 26 November, however, Gray was granted a stay of execution by federal judge Rogers. In December 2016, a Kansas federal judge lifted Gray's stay, moving Gray one step closer to becoming the U.S. military's first death sentence carried out since 1961.\n\nThe U.S. Military currently has four inmates on death row, the most recent being Nidal Hasan, who murdered 13 people and injured 32 others during the 2009 Fort Hood mass shooting.\n\nCurrently, under the Uniform Code of Military Justice, 14 offenses are punishable by death. Under the following sections of the UCMJ, the death penalty can be imposed at any time:\n\n\nAnother four provisions of the UCMJ carry a death sentence only if the crime is committed during times of war:\n\n\nCapital cases are tried in courts-martial before a panel of at least 12 military members. If the defendant is an enlisted service member, he or she may opt for at least one-third of the panel to also be of enlisted rank. All members of the panel must outrank the accused. The defendant cannot plead guilty to the charges. A two-thirds majority is enough for conviction, but unanimity is required to issue a death sentence during the penalty phase of the proceeding.\n\nAll death sentences are automatically appealed, first to the Court of Criminal Appeals for the military service concerned, then to the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces. The sentence must be personally confirmed by the President of the United States.\n\nMilitary executions would be conducted under regulations issued on 17 January 2006, and would ordinarily take place at the Special Housing Unit of the United States Disciplinary Barracks (USDB), Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, although alternative locations are possible (such as the Federal Correctional Complex, Terre Haute, Indiana, where federal civilian death-row inmates are housed and executed). Of four convicted servicemen awaiting execution, three are confined at the USDB's Special Housing Unit and one at Camp Lejeune, all of whom have been convicted of murder.\n\nUntil 1961--the last military execution to date--hanging was the sole and official method. Later the military introduced the electric chair, which was never used. Currently, lethal injection is the only method.\n\nUS General William Rosecrans approved the courtmartial and hanging of two Confederate Officers Lawrence Orton Williams and Walter Peters June 9, 1863 at Franklin Tenn after these two officers had disguised themselves as Union Officers for the purposes of Spying.\n\nOn April 1865 four persons convicted on involvement in the assassination of US President Abraham Lincoln were executed by hanging by the military\n\nIn 10 November 1865 Henry Wirz Commander of Camp Anderson aka Andersonville POW Camp Georgia was tried , convicted and executed by hanging by the military.\n\nThe United States Army executed 36 soldiers during the First World War by hanging between 5 November 1917 and 20 June 1919. Eleven of these hangings were performed in France while the remaining 25 were carried out in the continental United States.\n\nThe military executed 160 soldiers and other members of the armed forces between 1942-61 (these figures do not include German prisoners of war, war criminals, spies and saboteurs executed by U.S. military authorities between 1942-51). \n\nThere have been no military executions since 1961, although the death penalty is still a possible punishment for several crimes under the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Of these executions, 157 were carried out by the United States Army - this includes members of the United States Army Air Forces prior to September 1947. After becoming independent of the U.S. Army on September 18, 1947, the United States Air Force conducted the three remaining executions, one in 1950 and two in 1954. The U.S. Navy has not executed any of its own servicemen since 1849. \n\nOf the total, 21 were executed for rape and murder, 85 for murder, and 53 for rape, with Army Pvt. Eddie Slovik being executed in 1945 by firing squad for desertion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6009896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6009896", "title": "Carolinas Sports Entertainment Television", "text": "Carolinas Sports Entertainment Television\n\nCarolinas Sports Entertainment Television, or C-SET, was a regional sports network in the United States that was in operation from October 2004 until June 2005. It was the primary television vehicle of the Charlotte Bobcats of the National Basketball Association during that team's first season in the league.\n\nC-SET was a joint venture between Bobcats owner Robert L. Johnson, the executive who founded Black Entertainment Television and used the money to become the first majority African-American owner in NBA history, and Time Warner Cable, the largest cable provider in North Carolina. It was supposed to cover both North Carolina and South Carolina. An aspect that set C-SET apart from similar team-owned channels is that Time Warner Cable did not put the channel on analog cable, instead using it as an attraction to get customers for their digital cable services. Comporium Cable, the largest cable provider on the South Carolina side of the Charlotte market, simulcast C-SET's broadcasts on its local news channel, CN2. A package of 15 Bobcats games produced by C-SET aired on WJZY.\n\nIn addition to the Bobcats, C-SET aired college sports programs, mostly from the Big South Conference and Central Intercollegiate Athletic Association, outdoors programming (hunting and fishing), auto racing, and action sports. C-SET also planned a nightly sportscast.\n\nC-SET lasted only one NBA season and folded on the day of the 2005 NBA Draft. The lack of analog cable carriage, as well as the Bobcats' poor attendance, was seen as a primary reason. Additionally, despite being owned by North Carolina's largest cable provider, few other providers picked up C-SET. Time Warner blocked satellite television providers from carrying the channel. As a result, cable customers without a digital package, as well as western North Carolina and most of South Carolina, were left to rely on radio coverage.\n\nIn 2005, the Bobcats moved their local cable broadcasts to News 14 Carolina in another complex and limiting deal which cut out viewers who did not have Time Warner or Comporium as a cable provider. In 2006-07, the team added over-the-air broadcasts on WMYT after one season on WJZY. In April 2008, Time Warner Cable allowed the Bobcats to exit the News 14 deal and sign a more broadcasting accessible agreement with SportsSouth/FSN South in exchange for Time Warner Cable acquiring the naming rights for the Charlotte Bobcats Arena, which is now known as Time Warner Cable Arena.\n\nThe Carolinas would not have a dedicated regional sports network focused on the region until 2008, when Fox Sports South created Fox Sports Carolinas as a regional subfeed.\n"}
{"id": "4479102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4479102", "title": "Chrapliwy v. Uniroyal, Inc.", "text": "Chrapliwy v. Uniroyal, Inc.\n\nChrapliwy v. Uniroyal, Inc., 670 F.2d 760 (7th Cir. 1982) is a US labor law decision of the U.S. Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals concerning the award of attorney's fees in a discrimination lawsuit. The facts of the case involved allegedly discriminatory practices in violation of Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The litigants of the case settled in favor of the plaintiffs, but brought the issue of reasonable attorney's fees to the district court.\n\nUniroyal allegedly maintained \"a segregated hiring and seniority system at its Mishawaka, Indiana plant where women were heavily employed in the footwear production division, while other lines predominantly employed male employees.\" Alta Chrapliwy and other female workers filed charges against the company in a class action suit that was eventually settled in their favor after years of litigation.\n\n"}
{"id": "7153057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7153057", "title": "Chris Disspain", "text": "Chris Disspain\n\nChris Disspain is the former Chief Executive Officer of .au Domain Administration Ltd (auDA) and the former Chair of ICANN's Country Code Names Supporting Organization (ccNSO). Chris is also a member of the board of the Asia Pacific Top Level Domain Association (APTLD) and the Internet Governance Forum. Chris has served on the board of ICANN since 2011. He was elected its Vice-Chair in 2017 and re-elected in 2018. In 2013 he also joined the board of the Internet Society of Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "6961332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6961332", "title": "Clawback", "text": "Clawback\n\nA clawback or clawback provision is a special contractual clause typically included in employment contracts by financial firms, by which money already paid must be paid back under certain conditions. The term also is in use in bankruptcy matters where insiders may have raided assets prior to a filing, and in Medicaid, when a state recovers costs of long-term care or covered medical expenses from the estates of deceased Medicaid patients. The aim of the clause is to secure an option for an employer or trustee to limit bonuses, compensation or other remuneration in case of catastrophic shifts in business, bankruptcy, and national crisis as the financial crisis of 2007–2008, and for states to recoup the cost of administering Medicaid services.\n\nThe term clawbacks or claw backs can also be used to refer to any money or benefits that have been given out but need to be returned due to special circumstances or events, which are mentioned in a contract.\n\nThe employees' bonuses are, in a clawback scheme, tied specifically to the performance (or lack thereof) of the financial product(s) the individual(s) may have created and/or sold as part of his or her job expecting a high profit. If the product does indeed do well over a long period of time, and permanently improves the nature of the firm, the bonuses paid to the individual are allowed to be retained by the individual. However, if the product fails, and damages the nature of the firm—even years down the line from the product's inception—then the firm has the inherent right to revoke, reclaim, or otherwise repossess some or all of the bonus amount(s). However, research shows managers who are subject to clawback provisions that are newly in place in a company often try to offset their increased risk of bonus clawback by demanding an increase in base salary that is not subject to being clawed back.\n\nThe prevalence of clawback provisions among Fortune 100 companies increased from lower than 3% prior to 2005 to 82% in 2010. The growing popularity of clawback provisions is likely, at least in part, due to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to pursue the repayment of incentive compensation from senior executives that are involved in a fraud. In practice, the Securities and Exchange commission has enforced its clawback powers in only a small number of cases.\n\nThe Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 mandates the SEC to require that U.S. public companies include a clawback provision in their executive compensation contracts that is triggered by any accounting restatement, regardless of fault (whereas the clawback provisions per the Sarbanes-Oxley Act only applied to intentional fraud). As of mid 2015, this portion of the Dodd-Frank Act has yet to be implemented. \n\nThe usual objective of a clawback provision is to deter managers from publishing incorrect accounting information. Academic research finds that voluntarily adopted clawback provisions appear to be effective at reducing both intentional and unintentional accounting errors. The same study also finds that investors have greater confidence in a firm's financial statements after clawback adoption, and that boards of directors place greater weight on accounting numbers in executive bonuses after a clawback is in place (i.e., pay for performance sensitivity increases).\n\nAccording to a December 2010 \"New Yorker\" magazine article, the clawback phenomenon pursued by banks and other financial groups directly and/or indirectly responsible for the financial crisis has been used by the chief administrators of those institutions in order to make the case that they are presently taking tangible self-corrective action to both prevent another crisis (by supposedly dis-incentivizing the sorts of shady investment-product behavior displayed by their people in the recent past) and to appropriately punish any potential future activity of a similar or identical sort. However, the case is made in \"The New Yorker\" article (which cites several professional economists who agree with its perspective) that it is probably unlikely that either result will become the case, and \"The New Yorker\" article also alleges that the people making this argument may not even truly believe it, but are instead promoting it as a sort of public relations tactic until such time as the impact of the financial crisis fades and similar (perhaps near-identical) abuses of the financial system can slowly and quietly resume, with minimal or no detection by outside forces.\n\nIn the past, clawback phenomena have been used primarily in securing tax incentives, abatements, refunds and grants. Clawbacks are distinguished from repayments or refunds as they involve a penalty in addition to a repayment.\n\nThe use of tax incentives for attracting jobs and capital investment has grown over the past twenty odd years to include performance measures from which to gauge a company's growth. Typical measures are:\n\n\nMore unusual measures are retaining a headquarters at a specific site for a period of time, amount of production increase or production cost decrease per unit or the requirement to bring a given technology to a commercial market. The recipient will be required to return the monetary value of the incentive plus a penalty and/or interest to the grantor of the incentive, usually a local or state taxing authority. As the use of incentives mature over time, it is sometimes alleged that the triggering of clawbacks for non performance will likely become more ubiquitous.\n\nClawbacks can be understood to be the contractual elements that stand between the drive for economic development and community development and the slippery slope of corporate welfare. They are highly controversial and are utilized as community based guarantees for some expectation of performance. The site location industry normally tries to eliminate or reduce any such promises as part of their negotiations.\n\nClawbacks are also used by most banks and lenders to recover money from \"unprofitable\" home loans. This is usually done when the borrower pays back the loan in a short period of time, usually within 24 months of the loan advancement.\n\nIn Australia this fee is usually 0.77% of the total loan amount for loans paid back within the first 12 months after the settlement and 0.385% within 24 months. If a borrower is using a mortgage broker for their home loan, then the broker will usually charge them this amount.\n\nSee Medicaid#Clawback controversy.\n"}
{"id": "8711531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8711531", "title": "Constitutional Court of the Democratic Republic of the Congo", "text": "Constitutional Court of the Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\nThe Constitutional Court () was established by the Constitution of the Third Republic on 18 February 2006. It is the highest constitutional authority in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. \n\nIts duty is to ensure that the principles and rules of the constitution are upheld. It considers conformity with the Constitution.\n\n"}
{"id": "2278805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2278805", "title": "Contagious Diseases Acts", "text": "Contagious Diseases Acts\n\nThe Contagious Diseases Acts, also known as the CD Acts, were originally passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom in 1864 (27 & 28 Vict. c. 85), with alterations and editions made in 1866 (29 & 30 Vict. c. 35) and 1869 (32 & 33 Vict. c. 96). In 1862, a committee was established to inquire into venereal disease (i.e. sexually transmitted infections) in the armed forces. On its recommendation the first Contagious Diseases Act was passed. The legislation allowed police officers to arrest women suspected of being prostitutes in certain ports and army towns. The women were then subjected to compulsory checks for venereal disease. If a woman was declared to be infected, she would be confined in what was known as a lock hospital until she recovered or her sentence finished. The original act only applied to a few selected naval ports and army towns, but by 1869 the acts had been extended to cover eighteen \"subjected districts\".\n\nThe Act of 1864 stated that women found to be infected could be interned in locked hospitals for up to three months, a period gradually extended to one year with the 1869 Act. These measures were justified by medical and military officials as the most effective method to shield men from venereal disease. Because military men were often unmarried and homosexuality was criminal, prostitution was considered a necessary evil. However, no provision was made for the examination of prostitutes' clientele, which became one of the many points of contention in a campaign to repeal the Acts.\n\nAfter 1866, proposals were introduced to extend the acts to the north of England and to the civilian population. It was suggested that this extension would regulate prostitution and stop street disorders caused by it in large cities.\n\nThe subject of venereal disease, known as social disease, created significant controversy within Victorian society. The Contagious Diseases Acts themselves affected thousands of people's lives, from campaigners to prostitutes themselves. They sparked the debate over inequality between men and women. It was an early political issue that led to women organising themselves and actively campaigning for their rights.\n\nThe inconsistent treatment of genders inherent in the acts was a key part of Josephine Butler's campaigns for their repeal. In one of her public letters, she allowed a prostitute to deliver her own account of her personal encounters with men:\nThe level of prostitution was high in Victorian England. The acts themselves would have affected a large proportion of the female workforce in Britain. For several reasons prostitution was predominantly a working class profession. For many working class women their journey into prostitution was one of circumstance. During the nineteenth century the public began to concern itself with particular social problems, an increasing view of the \"ideal woman\" was beginning to emerge and the \"angel of the home\" was becoming a popular stereotype. This rise of the middle class domestic morality made it increasingly harder for women to obtain work in certain professions, causing an increase in such areas as needle-trades, shop girls, agricultural gangs, factory work, and domestic servants, all occupations with long hours and little pay. Low earnings, it is argued, meant that women had to resort to prostitution to be able to provide for themselves and their families, particularly in households where the main breadwinner was no longer around. The figures below, however, show this to be untrue. A study from the late Victorian period showed that more than 90 per cent of prostitutes in Millbank prison were the daughters of \"unskilled and semiskilled workingmen\", more than 50 per cent of whom had been servants, the rest having worked in dead-end jobs such as laundering, charring, and street selling.\n\nThe nature of the occupation makes it difficult to establish the exact number of prostitutes in operation during the Victorian Period. Judicial reports of the years 1857 to 1869 show that prostitutes were more common in commercial ports and pleasure resorts and less so in hardware towns, cotton and linen manufacturing centres and woollen and worsted centres. The Westminster Review placed the figure between 50,000 and 368,000. This would make prostitution the fourth-largest female occupation. However, the police estimates of known prostitutes portray an entirely different estimate:\n\nPolice estimates of known prostitutes\nHowever, this table relates only prostitutes known to the police. The unreliability of statistics during the nineteenth century prevents one from knowing if prostitution was increasing or decreasing during this period, but it is clear that Victorians during the 1840s and 1850s thought that prostitution and venereal disease were increasing.\n\nRegulating prostitution was the government's attempt to control the high level of venereal disease in its armed forces. By 1864, one out of three sick cases in the army was caused by venereal disease; admissions into hospitals for gonorrhoea and syphilis reached 290.7 per 1,000 of total troop strength.\n\nProstitutes found work within the armed forces, mainly due to servicemen's forced celibacy and the conditions of the barracks the men were forced to endure. The barracks were overcrowded, and had a lack of ventilation and defective sanitation. Very few servicemen were permitted to marry, and even those who were, were not given an allowance to support their wives, which occasionally lured them to become prostitutes as well.\n\nIn 1867, the Association for Promoting the Extension of the Contagious Diseases Acts was established and was just as prominent in the publishing of pamphlets and articles as the Ladies National Association for the Repeal of the Contagious Diseases Acts was. The Association strongly campaigned for the extension of the Contagious Diseases Acts to be extended outside of the naval and army barracks and be made effective to the whole of the country, as they believed this was the best way of regulating prostitution.\n\nThere was much action taken towards the repeal of the Contagious Diseases Acts. In 1869, the National Association for the Repeal of the Contagious Diseases Acts was established; initially restricting women from its meetings, causing the Ladies National Association for the Repeal of the Contagious Diseases Acts to be quickly established by Josephine Butler. These repeal organisations attracted the vigorous support of moralists and feminists but also those more generally concerned with civil liberties, especially since the Acts were perceived as having violated basic human rights. Both groups actively campaigned against the acts and between 1870 and 1885, 17,365 petitions against the acts bearing 2,606,429 signatures were presented to the House of Commons, and during the same period, more than 900 meetings were held.\nThe repealists struck a chord with the public consensus on the issues surrounding prostitution and they highlighted the issue of double standards.\n\nIt was the men and women of the National Association and the Ladies National Association who won the battle over the Contagious Diseases Acts, and, in 1886, the Acts were repealed.\n\nIf a woman was declared diseased she would be confined in what were known as lock hospitals. The lock hospitals or lock wards were designed specifically to treat those infected with a venereal disease since 1746. Conditions in lock hospitals may have been inadequate. An 1882 survey estimated that there were only 402 beds for female patients in all the voluntary lock hospitals in Great Britain, and out of this number only 232 were \"funded for use\". Female venereal patients generally had to resort to workhouse infirmaries.\n\nExtensive archives on the campaign to repeal the Contagious Diseases Acts are held at the Women's Library at the Library of the London School of Economics.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "6328553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6328553", "title": "Councils of Clovesho", "text": "Councils of Clovesho\n\nThe Councils of Clovesho or Clofesho were a series of synods attended by Anglo-Saxon kings, bishops, abbots and nobles in the 8th and 9th centuries. They took place at an unknown location in the Kingdom of Mercia.\n\nThe location of the place-name Clovesho has never been conclusively identified. Scholars believe that Clovesho must have been located in the kingdom of Mercia, or close to it, and close enough to the sees of the southern English bishops to travel to. It has been described by Clifford Offer as \"the most famous lost place in Anglo-Saxon England\".\n\nThe strongest candidate for the location of Clovesho has long been Brixworth in Northamptonshire, where the surviving Anglo-Saxon church of All Saints' Church, Brixworth is indicative of the importance of the settlement during the Anglo-Saxon period. Alternative locations have included Cliffe (previously called Cliffe-at-Hoo), Abingdon and Tewkesbury (which were considered by Arthur West Haddan and William Stubbs to be based upon unreliable evidence), as well as Hitchin, Hertfordshire.\n\nThe Councils' dates and their Acts are known. Those Councils of Clovesho for which authentic evidence exists are those of 742, 747, 794, 798, 803, 824 and 825.\n\nWhen Archbishop Theodore of Tarsus held the Council of Hertford in 672 or 673, he declared to the assembled bishops that he had been \"appointed by the Apostolic See to be Bishop of the Church of Canterbury\". A canon was passed to the effect that in future yearly synods should be held on 1 August every year \"in the place which is called Clofeshoch\". This ruling represents the inauguration of the first parliamentary system known to have operated in the British Isles; \"there had never before been a parliament with authority enough to decide on matters concerning all the English peoples\". Meetings were held at Clovesho for more than 150 years.\n\nThe councils at Clovesho, and those generally of the Anglo-Saxon period, were mixed assemblies which included bishops, abbots, the king of Mercia and the chief men of his kingdom. The councils had the character not only of a church synod but of the Witenagemot, an assembly of the ruling class whose primary function was to advise the king. The affairs of the Church were decided by the bishops, who were in turn presided over by the archbishop. The king presided over his chiefs and gave his authority to their decisions. There is no evidence of any royal interference in the spiritual legislation or judgments of the Church. England was not yet united into one kingdom, but the decisions made at Clovesho, as far as can be judged from participants' signatures, represented the decisions of the whole English Church south of the Humber.\n\nSeventy years after the Hertford council, the first Council of Clovesho of which we have an authentic record was held. The \"Canterbury Cartulary\" contained a charter stating that in 716 the privilege of Wihtred to the churches was \"confirmed and ratified in a synod held in the month of July in a place called Clovesho\". Some doubt has been expressed about the authenticity of this document.\n\nThe first Council of Clovesho was presided over by Æthelbald of Mercia and Archbishop Cuthbert of Canterbury. According to the record of its proceedings, the council \"diligently enquired into the needs of religion, the Creed as delivered by the ancient teaching of the Fathers, and carefully examined how things were ordered at the first beginning of the Church here in England, and where the honour of the monasteries according to the rules of justice was maintained\". The privilege of Wihtred, which assured the liberty of the Church, was solemnly confirmed. No other provisions were mentioned.\n\nThe second Council of Clovesho was one of the most important such gatherings recorded in the history of the Anglo-Saxon Church. Its acts were copied by Spelman from an ancient Cottonian manuscript, which is now lost.\n\nThe acts state that the Council was composed of \"bishops and dignitaries of less degree from the various provinces of Britain\" and that it was presided over by Archbishop Cuthbert. According to a manuscript preserved by William of Malmesbury, \"King Ethelbald and his princes and chiefs were present\".\n\nThe Acts related that \"first of all, the Metropolitan, as president, brought forth in their midst two letters of the Apostolic Lord, Pope Zachary, venerated throughout the whole world, and with great care these were plainly read, and also openly translated into our own language, according as he himself by his Apostolic authority had commanded\". The papal letters are described as containing a fervent admonition, addressed to the English people of every rank and condition, and stated that those who condemned these warnings and remained obstinate in their malice should be punished by sentence of excommunication. The council then drew up thirty-one canons, the majority of which dealt with matters of ecclesiastical discipline and liturgy.\n\nThe thirteenth and fifteenth canons are noteworthy as showing the close union of the Anglo-Saxon Church with the Holy See. The thirteenth canon stated that\n\n[A]ll the most sacred Festivals of Our Lord made Man, in all things pertaining to the same, viz.: in the Office of Baptism, the celebration of Masses, in the method of chanting, shall be celebrated in one and the same way, namely, according to the sample which we have received in writing from the Roman Church. And also, throughout the course of the whole year, the festivals of the Saints are to be kept on one and the same day, with their proper psalmody and chant, according to the Martyrology of the same Roman Church.\n\nThe fifteenth canon adds that in the seven hours of the daily and nightly Office the clergy \"must not dare to sing or read anything not sanctioned by the general use, but only that which comes down by authority of Holy Scripture, and which the usage of the Roman Church allows\".\n\nOther canons required that the litanies and rogations were to be observed by the clergy and people with great reverence \"according to the rite of the Roman Church\". The feasts of St. Gregory and of St. Augustine, \"who was sent to the English people by our said Pope and father St. Gregory\", were to be solemnly celebrated. The clergy and monks were to live so as to be always prepared to receive worthily the most holy Body and Blood of the Lord, and the laity were to be exhorted to the practice of frequent Communion. Persons who did not know Latin were to join in the psalmody by intention, and were to be taught to say prayers for the living or for the repose of the souls of the dead in English. Neither clergy nor monks were to be allowed to live in the houses of the people, nor were they to adopt or imitate the dress which is worn by the laity.\n\nThe record of the third Council of Clovesho is a charter by which Offa of Mercia made a grant of land for pious purposes. The charter stated that it has been drawn up \"in the general synodal Council in the most celebrated place called Clofeshoas\".\n\nAround the time when the papal legates presided at the Council of Chelsea in 787, Offa had obtained from Pope Adrian I that a new archbishopric should be created at Lichfield and that the Mercian sees should be subjected to its jurisdiction and withdrawn from that of Canterbury. Consequently, at this Council of 794, Higbert of Lichfield, to whom the pope had sent the pallium, signed as an archbishop.\n\nA council was held at Clovesho in 798 by Archbishop Ethelheard with Coenwulf of Mercia, at which the bishops and abbots and chief men of the province were present. Its proceedings are related in a document by Archbishop Ethelheard, who stated that his first care was to examine diligently \"in what way the Catholic Faith was held and how the Christian religion was practised amongst them\". To this inquiry, \"they all replied with one voice: 'Be it known to your Paternity, that even as it was formerly delivered to us by the Holy Roman and Apostolic See, by the mission of the most Blessed Pope Gregory, so do we believe, and what we believe, we in all sincerity do our best to put into practice.'\"\n\nThe Council also devoted time in dealing with questions of church property, and producing an agreement of exchange of lands between the archbishop and the Abbess Cynethryth.\n\nThe fifth Council of Clovesho was one of the most remarkable of the series, as its Acts contained the declaration of the restitution of the Mercian sees to the province of Canterbury by the authority of Pope Leo III.\n\nIn 798, Coenwulf of Mercia addressed to the pope a long letter, representing \"with great affection and humility\" the disadvantages of the new archbishopric at Lichfield that had been created eleven years before by Pope Adrian I. In the letter the king submitted the whole case to the pope, asking his blessing and saying: \"I love you as one who is my father, and I embrace you with the whole strength of my obedience\", and promising to abide in all things by his decision. \"I judge it fitting to bend humbly the ear of our obedience to your holy commands, and to fulfil with all our strength whatever may seem to your Holiness that we ought to do.\"\n\nÆthelhard, Archbishop of Canterbury, travelled to Rome to plead for the restitution of the sees. In 802, Leo granted the petition of the king and the archbishop and issued to the latter a Papal bull in which he restored to him the full jurisdiction enjoyed by his predecessors. The pope communicated this judgment in a letter to Coenwulf.\n\nThis decision was duly proclaimed in the Council of Clovesho held in the following year. Archbishop Ethelheard declared to the synod that \"by the co-operation of God and of the Apostolic Lord, the Pope Leo\", he and his fellow-bishops unanimously ratified the rights of the See of Canterbury, and that an archbishopric should never more be founded at Lichfield, and that the grant of the pallium made \"with the consent and permission of the Apostolic Lord Pope Adrian, be considered as null, having been obtained surreptitiously and by evil suggestion\". After Higbert, the Archbishop of Lichfield, submitted to the papal judgment and retired to a monastery, the Mercian sees returned to the jurisdiction of Canterbury.\n\nIn 824 and 825 two further synods were held at Clovesho, \"Beornwulf, King of Mercia, presiding and the Venerable Archbishop Wulfred ruling and controlling the Synod\", according to the record of the first, and \"Wulfred the Archbishop presiding, and also Beornwulf, King of Mercia\", according to the second. The first assembly was occupied in deciding a suit concerning an inheritance and the second in terminating a dispute between the archbishop and the Abbess Cynethryth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1043351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1043351", "title": "Coverture", "text": "Coverture\n\nCoverture (sometimes spelled couverture) was a legal doctrine whereby, upon marriage, a woman's legal rights and obligations were subsumed by those of her husband, in accordance with the wife's legal status of feme covert. An unmarried woman, a feme sole, had the right to own property and make contracts in her own name. Coverture arises from the legal fiction that a husband and wife are one person.\n\nCoverture was enshrined in the common law of England for several centuries and throughout most of the 19th century, influencing some other common-law jurisdictions. According to Arianne Chernock, coverture did not apply in Scotland, but whether it applied in Wales is unclear.\n\nAfter the rise of the women's rights movement in the mid-19th century, coverture came under increasing criticism as oppressive towards women, hindering them from exercising ordinary property rights and entering professions. Coverture was first substantially modified by late 19th century Married Women's Property Acts passed in various common-law legal jurisdictions, and was weakened and eventually eliminated by subsequent reforms. Certain aspects of coverture (mainly concerned with preventing a wife from unilaterally incurring major financial obligations for which her husband would be liable) survived as late as the 1960s in some states of the United States.\n\nUnder traditional English common law, an adult unmarried woman was considered to have the legal status of \"feme sole\", while a married woman had the status of \"feme covert\". These terms are English spellings of medieval Anglo-Norman phrases (the modern standard French spellings would be \"femme seule\" \"single woman\" and \"femme couverte\", literally \"covered woman\").\n\nThe principle of coverture was described in William Blackstone's \"Commentaries on the Laws of England\" in the late 18th century:\nA \"feme sole\" had the right to own property and make contracts in her own name, while a \"feme covert\" was not recognized as having legal rights and obligations distinct from those of her husband in most respects. Instead, through marriage a woman's existence was incorporated into that of her husband, so that she had very few recognized individual rights of her own. As expressed in Hugo Black's dissent in \"United States v. Yazell\", \"This rule [coverture] has worked out in reality to mean that though the husband and wife are one, the one is the husband.\" A married woman could not own property, sign legal documents or enter into a contract, obtain an education against her husband's wishes, or keep a salary for herself. If a wife was permitted to work, under the laws of coverture, she was required to relinquish her wages to her husband. In certain cases, a wife did not have individual legal liability for her misdeeds since it was legally assumed that she was acting under the orders of her husband, and generally a husband and a wife were not allowed to testify either for or against each other.\n\nA queen of England, whether she was a queen consort or a queen regnant, was generally exempted from the legal requirements of coverture, as understood by Blackstone.\n\nThe system of \"feme sole\" and \"feme covert\" developed in England in the High and Late Middle Ages as part of the common law system, which had its origins in the legal reforms of Henry II and other medieval English kings. Medieval legal treatises, such as that famously known as Bracton, described the nature of coverture and its impact on married women's legal actions. Bracton states that husband and wife were a single person, being one flesh and one blood, a principle known as 'unity of person'. Husbands also wielded power over their wives, being their rulers and custodians of their property. \n\nWhile it was once assumed that married women had little or no access to legal recourse, as a result of coverture, historians have more recently complicated our knowledge of coverture in the middle ages through various studies of married women's legal status across different courts and jurisdictions. Collectively, many of these studies have argued that 'there has been a tendency to overplay the extent to which coverture applied', as legal records reveal that married women could possess rights over property, could take part in business transactions, and interact with the courts. In medieval post-conquest Wales, it has been suggested that coverture only applied in certain situations. Married women were responsible for their own actions in criminal presentments and defamation, but their husbands represented them in litigation for abduction and in interpersonal pleas.\n\nThe extent of coverture in medieval England has also been qualified by the existence of \"femme sole\" customs that existed in some medieval English towns. This granted them independent commercial and legal rights as if they were single. This practice is outlined in Darcy's London custumal of the 1340s, allowing married women working independently of their husband to act as a single woman in all matters concerning her craft, such as renting a shop and suing and being sued for debt. The custom is known to have been adopted in a number of other towns, including Bristol, Lincoln, York, Sandwich, Rye, Carlisle, Chester and Exeter. Some North American British colonies also adopted this custom in the eighteenth century. However, it is unclear how many women took up this status, the extent to which it was legally enforced, or whether the legal and commercial independence it offered were advantageous.\n\nAccording to Chernock, \"coverture, ... [a 1777] author ... concluded, was the product of foreign Norman invasion in the eleventh century—not, as Blackstone would have it, a time-tested 'English' legal practice. This was a reading of British history, then, that put a decidedly feminist twist on the idea of the 'Norman yoke. Also according to Chernock, \"the Saxons, ... [Calidore] boasted, had encouraged women to 'retain separate property'— ... a clear blow to coverture.\" Chernock claims that \"as the historical accounts of the laws regarding women had indicated, coverture was a policy not just foreign in its origins but also suited to particular and now remote historical conditions.\" Coverture may not have existed in \"the Anglo-Saxon constitution.\" \n\nCoverture also held sway in English-speaking colonies because of the influence of the English common law there. The way in which coverture operated across the common law world has been the subject of recent studies examining the subordinating effects of marriage for women across medieval and early modern England and North America, in a variety of legal contexts. It has been argued that in practice, most of the rules of coverture 'served not to guide every transaction but rather to provide clarity and direction in times of crisis or death.' Despite this flexibility, coverture remained a powerful tool of marital inequality for many centuries.\n\nEarly feminist historian Mary Ritter Beard held the view that much of the severity of the doctrine of coverture was actually due to Blackstone and other late systematizers rather than due to a genuine old common-law tradition.\n\nIn March 1776, Abigail Adams saw an opportunity in the language of natural rights, and wrote to her husband, John Adams: “In the new Code of Laws which I suppose it will be necessary for you to make I desire you would Remember the Ladies, and be more generous and favorable to them than your ancestors. Do not put such unlimited power into the hands of the Husbands. Remember all Men would be tyrants if they could.” She was not writing generally about women’s rights, or specifically about the right to vote. She was asking for relief from coverture. John responded, “I cannot but laugh.”\n\nAccording to Chernock, \"late Enlightenment radicals ... argued ... [that \"coverture\" and other \"principles\"] did not reflect the 'advancements' of a modern, civilized society. Rather, they were markers of past human errors and inconsistencies, and thus in need of further revision.\" Chernock claimed that \"as the editor of Blackstone's \"Commentaries,\" [Edward] Christian used his popular thirteenth edition, published in 1800, to highlight the ways in which the practice of coverture might be modified.\" Chernock wrote that \"Christian ... proceeded to recommend that a husband cease to be 'absolutely master of the profits of the wife's lands during the coverture. Chernock reported that other men sought for coverture to be modified or eliminated.\n\nAccording to Ellen Carol DuBois, \"the initial target of women's rights protest was the legal doctrine of 'coverture...'...\" In the 1850s, according to DuBois, Lucy Stone criticized \"the common law of marriage because it 'gives the \"custody\" of the wife's person to her husband, so that he has a right to her even against herself. Stone kept her premarital family name after marriage as a protest \"against all manifestations of coverture\". DuBois continued, \"in the 1850s, ... primarily legal goal [of \"the American women's rights movement\"] was the establishment of basic property rights for women once they were married, which went to the core of the deprivations of coverture.\" Chernock continued, \"for those who determined that legal reforms were the key to achieving a more enlightened relationship between the sexes, coverture was a primary object of attention.\"\n\nDuBois wrote that coverture, because of property restrictions with the vote, \"played a major role in\" influencing the effort to secure women's right to vote in the U.S., because one view was that the right should be limited to women who owned property when coverture excluded most women (relatively few were unmarried or widowed), while another view was for the right to be available for all women.\n\nIn the mid-19th century, according to Melissa J. Homestead, coverture was criticized as depriving married women authors of the financial benefits of their copyrights, including analogizing to slavery; one woman poet \"explicitly analogized her legal status as a married woman author to that of an American slave.\" According to Homestead, feminists also criticized the effect of coverture on rights under patents held by married women.\n\nHendrik Hartog counter-criticized that coverture was only a legal fiction and not descriptive of social reality and that courts applying equity jurisdiction had developed many exceptions to coverture, but, according to Norma Basch, the exceptions themselves still required that the woman be dependent on someone and not all agreements between spouses to let wives control their property were enforceable in court.\n\nIn 1869, coverture was criticized when Myra Bradwell was refused permission to practice as a lawyer in Illinois specifically because of coverture. In 1871, Bradwell argued to the Supreme Court that coverture violated the Constitution's 14th Amendment. According to Margot Canaday, \"coverture's main purpose ... was the legal subordination of women.\" Canaday continued, \"women's legal subordination through marriage ... was maintained in fact across [coverture]\".\n\nAccording to Canaday, \"coverture was diminished ... in the 1970s, as part of a broader feminist revolution in law that further weakened the principle that a husband owned a wife's labor (including her person)... The regime of coverture ... was coming undone [in the mid-20th century]\". In 1966, the U.S. Supreme Court said \"the institution of coverture is ... obsolete\" even while acknowledging coverture's existence in 1–11 states. In a separate opinion in the same case, Hugo Black and two others of the nine justices said the \"fiction that the husband and wife are one... in reality ... that though the husband and wife are one, the one is the husband...[,] rested on ... a ... notion that a married woman, being a female, is without capacity to make her own contracts and do her own business\", a notion that Black \"had supposed is ... completely discredited\". Black described modern (as of 1966) coverture as an \"archaic remnant of a primitive caste system\". Canaday wrote, \"the application of equal protection law to marital relations finally eviscerated the law of coverture\" and \"coverture unraveled with accelerating speed [in the late 20th century]\". \"Coverture's demise blunted (even if it did not eliminate) male privilege within marriage\", according to Canaday.\n\nThis situation continued until the mid-to-late nineteenth century, when married women's property acts started to be passed in many English-speaking jurisdictions, setting the stage for further reforms.\nIn the United States, many states passed Married Women's Property Acts to eliminate or reduce the effects of coverture. Nineteenth-century courts in the United States also enforced state privy examination laws. A privy examination was an American legal practice in which a married woman who wished to sell her property had to be separately examined by a judge or justice of the peace outside of the presence of her husband and asked if her husband was pressuring her into signing the document. This practice was seen as a means to protect married women's property from overbearing husbands. Other states abolished the concept through court cases, for example: California in \"Follansbee v. Benzenberg\" (1954).\n\nAs recently as 1972, two US states allowed a wife accused in criminal court to offer as a legal defense that she was obeying her husband's orders.\n\nIn the Roman-Dutch law, the marital power was a doctrine very similar to the doctrine of coverture in the English common law. Under the marital power doctrine, a wife was legally a minor under the guardianship of her husband.\n\nUnder the Napoleonic Code – which was very influential both inside and outside of Europe – married women and children were subordinated to the husband's authority. Married French women obtained the right to work without their husband's consent in 1965. In France, the paternal authority of a man over his family was ended in 1970 (before that parental responsibilities belonged solely to the father who made all legal decisions concerning the children); and a new reform in 1985 abolished the stipulation that the father had the sole power to administer the children's property. Neighboring Switzerland was one of the last European countries to establish gender equality in marriage: married women's rights were severely restricted until 1988, when legal reforms providing gender equality in marriage, abolishing the legal authority of the husband, came into force (these reforms had been approved in 1985 by voters in a referendum, who narrowly voted in favor with 54.7% of voters approving).\n\nIn 1979, Louisiana became the last of the states of the U.S. to have its Head and Master law struck down. An appeal made it to the Supreme Court of the United States in 1980, and in the following year the high court's decision in \"Kirchberg v. Feenstra\" effectively declared the practice of male-rule in marriage unconstitutional, generally favoring instead a co-administration model.\n\nThe doctrine of coverture carried over into British heraldry, in which there were established traditional methods of displaying the coat of arms of an unmarried woman, displaying the coat of arms of a widow, or displaying the combined coat of arms of a couple jointly, but no accepted method of displaying the coat of arms of a married woman separately as an individual.\n\nThe practice by which a woman relinquishes her name and adopts her husband's name (e.g., \"Mrs. John Smith\") is similarly a representation of coverture, although usually symbolic rather than legal in form.\n\nIn some cultures, particularly in the Anglophone West, wives often change their surnames to that of their husbands upon getting married. Although this procedure is today optional, for some it remains a controversial practice due to its tie to the historical doctrine of coverture or to other similar doctrines in civil law systems, and to the historically subordinated roles of wives; while others argue that today this is merely a harmless tradition that should be accepted as a free choice. Some jurisdictions consider this practice as discriminatory and contrary to women's rights, and have restricted or banned it; for example, since 1983, when Greece adopted a new marriage law which guaranteed gender equality between the spouses, women in Greece are \"required\" to keep their birth names for their whole life.\n\nThe phrase \"the law is an ass\" was popularized by Charles Dickens' \"Oliver Twist\", when the character Mr. Bumble is informed that \"the law supposes that your wife acts under your direction\". Mr. Bumble replies, \"if the law supposes that ... the law is a ass—a idiot. If that's the eye of the law, the law is a bachelor; and the worst I wish the law is that his eye may be opened by experience—by experience.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22512882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22512882", "title": "Dahomeyan constitutional referendum, 1964", "text": "Dahomeyan constitutional referendum, 1964\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in the Republic of Dahomey on 5 January 1964. The main issues were changing the system of government to a presidential system, scrapping term limits for the president, and having a unicameral parliament. The referendum passed with 99.86% of voters approving the changes. Turnout was 92.1% of the 1,051,614 registered voters.\n"}
{"id": "3861448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3861448", "title": "Debt settlement", "text": "Debt settlement\n\nDebt settlement, also known as debt arbitration, debt negotiation or credit settlement, is an approach to debt reduction in which the debtor and creditor agree on a reduced balance that will be regarded as payment in full. During a negotiation period, all payments by the debtor are made to the debt settlement company, which typically withholds payments to the creditors, even if the debtor has paid a lump sum or made payments. Once all the debtor's accounts are in default due to this non-payment, the debt settlement company has leverage to force the debtor to accept a reduced lump sum payment as settlement. The debtor's credit rating goes down significantly due to the default, especially if the debtor was not behind on payments before the negotiation period commenced. Even though the accounts are \"settled,\" the default appears on the debtor's credit record for seven years. Nevertheless, some debtors prefer this method of debt reduction over bankruptcy.\n\nDebt settlement is often confused with debt consolidation or debt management. In debt consolidation and debt management, the consumer makes monthly payments to the debt consolidator, who takes a fee and passes the rest on to the creditors; this way, creditors continue to receive payments each month. In debt settlement, the consumer makes monthly payments, out of which the debt settlement company takes its fees for the legal work or negotiation and payments are paid to the creditor. The debt settlement company may persuade the creditor to accept a settlement less than the amount the debtor pays, with the debt settlement company keeping the difference.\n\nDebtors may use debt settlement instead of conventional debt management because they are not aware of debt management.\n\nAs a concept, lenders have been practicing debt settlement for thousands of years. However, the business of debt settlement became prominent in America during the late 1980s and early 1990s when bank deregulation, which loosened consumer lending practices, followed by an economic recession placed consumers in financial hardships.\n\nWith charge-offs (debts written-off by banks) increasing, banks established debt settlement departments staffed with personnel who were authorized to negotiate with defaulted cardholders to reduce the outstanding balances in hopes to recover funds that would otherwise be lost if the cardholder filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy. Typical settlements ranged between 25% and 65% of the outstanding balance.\n\nAlongside the unprecedented spike in personal debt loads, there has been another rather significant (even if criminally under reported) change – the 2005 passage of legislation that dramatically worsened the chances for average Americans to claim Chapter 7 bankruptcy protection. As things stand, should anyone filing for bankruptcy fail to meet the Internal Revenue Service regulated ‘means test’, they would instead be shelved into the Chapter 13 debt restructuring plan. Essentially, Chapter 13 bankruptcies simply tell borrowers that they must pay back some or all of their debts to all unsecured lenders. Repayments under Chapter 13 can range from 1% to 100% of the amounts owed to unsecured creditors, based on the ability of the debtor to pay. Repayment periods are 3 years (for those who earn below the median income) or 5 years (for those above), under court mandated budgets that follow IRS guidelines, and the penalties for failure are more severe.\n\nDebt settlement is the process of negotiating with creditors to reduce overall debts in exchange for a lump sum payment. A successful settlement occurs when the creditor agrees to forgive a percentage of total account balance. Normally, only unsecured debts not secured by real assets like homes or autos can be settled. Unsecured debts include medical bills and Credit card debt - not student loans, auto financing or mortgages. For the debtor, this makes obvious sense, they avoid the stigma and intrusive court-mandated controls of bankruptcy while still lowering, sometimes by more than 50%, their debt balances. Whereas, for the creditor, they regain trust that the borrower intends to pay back what he can of the loans and not file bankruptcy (in which case, the creditor risks losing all moneys owed).\n\nNegotiating with a collection agency or junk debt buyer is somewhat similar to negotiating with a credit card company or other original creditor. However, many collection agencies (or junk debt buyers) will agree to take less of the owed amount than the original creditor, because the junk debt buyer has purchased the debt for a fraction of the original balance. As a part of the settlement, the consumer can request that collection is removed from the credit report, which is generally not the case with the original creditor. Even if the removal of the collection account from the consumer credit report has been successfully achieved as a condition of settlement during negotiations, the negative marks from the original credit card company will still remain, according to Maxine Sweet, a spokeswoman for credit reporting agency Experian.\n\nPotential candidates for debt settlement will typically have an overwhelming debt that they can’t afford to pay, have poor credit or don’t care about negatively impacting their bad credit, and/or don’t qualify for Chapter 7 bankruptcy.\n\nIn the U.K. you can appoint an Arbiter or legal entity to negotiate with the creditors. Creditors often accept reduced balances in a final payment and this is called full and final settlement but with debt settlement the reduced amount can be spread over an agreed term.\n\nIn the U.K. creditors such as banks, credit card, loan companies and other creditors are already writing off huge amounts of debt. Most creditors are open to negotiations and are willing to accept reductions of 50% or more. Debt settlement allows the public to spread payments out over a set term - instead of having to pay a lump sum in one go which is the case with Full and Final Settlement.\n\nU.K. debt settlement is not to be confused with full and final settlement where debt management companies have been known to hold on to client funds in which case the creditors get nothing until they decide to settle. Furthermore, the debt management company usually instructs the consumer not to make any payments to creditors. The intended effect is to scare creditors into settling the debt for less than the full amount. Typically, however, creditors simply begin collection procedures, which can include filing suit against the consumer in court. As long as consumers continue to make minimum monthly payments, creditors will not negotiate a reduced balance. However, when payments stop, balances continue to grow because of late fees and ongoing interest. This practice of holding client funds is regarded as unethical in the U.S. and U.K.\n\nU.S. debt settlement differs slightly. There are several indicators that few consumers actually have their debt eliminated by full and final settlement. A survey of U.S. debt settlement companies found that 34.4% of enrollees had 75 percent or more of their debt settled within three years. Data released by the Colorado Attorney General showed that only 11.35 percent of consumers who had enrolled more than three years earlier had all of their debt settled. And when asked to show that most of their customers are better off after debt settlement, industry leaders said that would be an \"unrealistic measure.\" \n\nConsumers can arrange their own settlements by using advice found on web sites, hire a lawyer to act for them, or use debt settlement companies. In a New York Times article Cyndi Geerdes, an associate professor at the University of Illinois law school, states \"Done correctly, (debt settlement) can absolutely help people\". However, stopping payments to creditors as part of a debt settlement plan can reduce a consumer's credit score from 65 to 125 points, with higher impacts on those who were current on their payments prior to enrolling in the program. And missed payments can remain on a consumer's credit report for seven years even after a debt is settled.\n\nSome settlement companies may charge a large fee up front, which ignores a rule from the Federal Trade Commission.\n\nOr they take a monthly fee from customer bank accounts for their service, possibly reducing the incentive to settle with creditors quickly. One expert advises consumers to look for companies that charge only after a settlement is made, and charge about 20 percent of the amount by which the outstanding balance is reduced. Other experts say debt settlement is a flawed model altogether and should be avoided.\n\nDepending on the country, different laws regulate professional debt settlement companies. In the United States, debt relief companies are required to provide information in advance of a consumer signing up for the services, including the cost and the terms. A legitimate company will use a Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-insured trust account. Once enough funds are built up the negotiation process can begin with each creditor individually. Trust accounts, also known as \"special purpose accounts,\" are often held by a bank, and managed by a bank agent (who charges a monthly maintenance fee). Accounts can also be held by creditors, or may be sold to collections agency for an average of $0.15 on the dollar, in which case debt can still be negotiated.\n\nA consumer makes monthly payments to the debt settlement company, or to the bank (or bank agent) who holds the \"trust\" account. A portion of each payment is taken as fees for the debt settlement company, and the rest is put into the trust account. The consumer is told not to pay anything to the creditors. The debt settlement company's fees are usually specified in the enrollment contract, and may range from 10% to 75% of the total amount of debt to be settled. FTC regulations effective October 27, 2010 restrict debt settlement companies from collecting any fees from a debtor client for services until settlement with the creditor has been reached and at least one payment made.\n\nSettlement companies generally package their settlements into a larger bulk settlement with the creditor for 35% - 50% of the existing balances. The debt settlement companies typically have built up a relationship during their normal business practices with the credit card companies and can come to a settlement agreement quicker and at a more favorable rate than a debtor acting on their own. With the current economic crisis, more and more credit card companies may be willing to settle existing credit card debts rather than add to their already large written off bad debt.\n\nIt is possible for a consumer to imitate the methods of professional debt settlement companies and many people report success in negotiating a debt settlement for themselves. Initiation of negotiations can begin by calling the customer service department of the credit card company. In general, the credit card company will only deal with a consumer when the consumer is behind on payments but capable of making a lump sum payment. A payment plan is not an option; the credit card company will demand that the consumer make a lump sum payment of the settlement amount.\n\nBy negotiating debts on their own, debtors are able to save in fees that would otherwise be paid to a debt settlement company or an attorney. This option also gives the debtor more control over the process which may, or may not, be a motivational factor to continue successfully completing the process.\n\nWhile the do-it-yourself option offers the debtor more control and reduced fees, there are negatives generally associated with this option. Creditors have their own policies regarding debt settlement and certain creditors will not settle directly with consumers. Additionally, consumers may face less advantageous settlement rates on their own, as opposed to debt settlement companies that have relationships with creditors and can often package bulk settlements. Consumers may face difficulty getting through to decision makers or long delays in any negotiations or paperwork processing with the creditors. Furthermore, every creditor has different processes and procedures in how they determine settlement offers and terms. Not knowing those can leave a consumer in the dark. Settlement Companies have a Customer service department to assist consumers with any questions or difficulties that arise during their program. This support can be particularly valuable, especially in cases where creditors become aggressive. If an account were to escalate to legal status, a consumer settling on their own would need to seek out a third party for help. Unfamiliarity of the settlement process can be intimidating and mistakes can be made. You will need to beware of fine print and carefully review any correspondence, proposed settlement or agreement with a creditor. Settlement Agreements should be reviewed very carefully, perhaps by a third party, to make sure that all the terms are those that are agreed upon. Settling one’s debt can be an emotionally draining and difficult process.\n\nThe creditor’s primary incentive is to recover funds that would otherwise be lost if the debtor filed for bankruptcy. The other key incentive is that the creditor can often recover more funds than through other collection methods. Collection agencies and collection attorneys charge commissions as high as 40% on recovered funds. Bad debt purchasers buy portfolios of delinquent debts from creditors who give up on internal collection efforts and these bad debt purchasers pay between 1 and 12 cents on the dollar, depending on the age of the debt, with the oldest debts the cheapest. Collection calls and lawsuits sometimes push debtors into bankruptcy, in which case the creditor often recovers no funds.\n\nDamages credit - Credit reports will show evidence of debt settlements and the associated FICO scores will be lowered temporarily as a result. However, if a \"paid in full\" letter is obtained from the creditor, the debtor's credit report should show no sign of a debt settlement. Additionally, as debtors settle their accounts the score starts to go back up again. Some Debt Settlement companies offer Credit Repair in their programs in order to erase some of the negative remarks on credit reports.\n\nPotential for lawsuits - Though few creditors wish to push borrowers toward bankruptcy, (and the potential of governmental protection against all debts),there’s always the possibility of a lawsuit whenever debts lay unpaid. In the debt settlement process the debtor's accounts remain in default. While the debts are still in default the creditor or its assignee can still file a lawsuit against a debtor. Most creditors and debt collectors want a lump sum payment to settle for less than the full debt. Although a debtor may make monthly payments to the debt settlement company, the amount is too small to successfully negotiate a settlement until after the debtor has made several months' worth of payments.\n\nEligibility of debts - In addition, the specific debts of the borrowers themselves affect the success of negotiations. Tax liens and domestic judgments, for reasons that should be clear, remain unaffected by attempts at settlement. Student loans, even those not federally subsidized, have been granted special powers by recent legislation to attach bank accounts without possibility of Chapter 7 bankruptcy protection. Also, some individual creditors, including Discover Card, for example, tend to have an aggressive resistance against negotiations.\n\nTax consequences - Another common objection to debt settlement is that debtors whose debts are partially canceled outside the bankruptcy system will need to report the canceled portion of the debt as taxable income. (IRS Publication Form 982) The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) considers any amount of forgiven debt as taxable income. The forgiving creditor must provide the taxpayer with a 1099-C tax form for amounts $600 or greater. This form will list the amount of forgiven debt and interest in Box 2. Taxpayers with portions of personal loans forgiven may not subtract the interest reported in Box 3 from the amount of reportable income on this form.\n\nHowever, the IRS does not require taxpayers to report forgiven debt if the tax payer was insolvent at the time the creditor forgave the debt. Being insolvent means that the amount of a debtor’s debts are greater than his/her assets (how much money and property the debtor owns). However, the IRS adds that “you cannot exclude any amount of canceled debt that is more than the amount by which you are insolvent.”\n\nFor example, if a taxpayer is $10,000 in debt and owns $3,000 in assets, he/she cannot exclude more than $7,000 of forgiven debt from his/her income tax. Any forgiven debt over $7,000 that year must be reported as taxable income.\n\nIn May 2009, the New York Attorney General issued subpoenas to fourteen \"debt settlement\" companies, looking for violations of New York law. On May 19, 2009, the New York Attorney General filed suit against two \"debt settlement\" firms and their affiliates, alleging violations related to fraudulent business practices and false advertising.\n\nA March 2010 CBS \"Early Show\" story on the debt settlement industry cast a harsh light on major debt settlement firm Credit Solutions of America's business practices, and provided consumer advice for debt settlement counseling.\n\nThe Better Business Bureau has adopted an automatic downgrading policy for all debt settlement companies. In a written statement, the Council of Better Business Bureaus stated, \"Debt negotiation/settlement businesses are downgraded in the BBB rating system based on BBB concerns with the debt negotiation/settlement industry. The FTC held a workshop on debt negotiation/settlement last fall, and similar concerns were expressed as to how the industry operates and the likelihood that debt negotiation/settlement benefits a significant number of consumers.\"\n\nThe Association of Settlement Companies (TASC), the professional association for the debt settlement industry, warned in a written statement that \"under the BBB’s new rating system, it is virtually impossible for a debt settlement company to be rated anything other than a ‘D’ or ‘F’,\". In a February letter TASC sent to the National Council of Better Business Bureaus, the organization alleged that “there are critical flaws in the BBB’s consumer grading system as it applies to settlement firms.” The letter expressed concern that all settlement companies will be given poor ratings, regardless of the number of consumer complaints, how those complaints have been resolved, or the business practices of the settlement firm under review. TASC says the dispute stems from the fact that the BBB does not consider debt settlement a viable option for consumers who cannot afford to pay back their debts and want professional help to negotiate lower payments.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23734946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23734946", "title": "Declaration of Helsinki (Information Technology)", "text": "Declaration of Helsinki (Information Technology)\n\nThe Declaration of Helsinki from the Global Cities Dialogue is the set of principles and commitments that define the purpose of the organisation - an international grouping of over 100 cities whose representatives: \n\n"}
{"id": "37580197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37580197", "title": "Decree Law 4161/56", "text": "Decree Law 4161/56\n\nDecree Law 4161/56 () was an Argentine government decree designed to suppress Peronist sentiment among the Argentine people. Enacted on 5 March 1956, six months after the 1955 overthrow of President Juan Perón in the \"Revolución Libertadora\", the decree instituted a wide-ranging ban on any \"affirmation of Peronism\" under the government of Pedro Eugenio Aramburu.\n\nThe decree officially outlawed the \"affirmation of Peronism, publicly performed, or Peronist propaganda, by any person, whether by individuals or groups of individuals, associations, unions, political parties, corporations, legal entities of public or private images, symbols, signs, significant expressions, items and artwork doctrines, intending genuine or could be taken by anyone as such owned or used by individuals or bodies representative of Peronism.\"\n\nThe law explicitly prohibited images of the former president and even went as far as to outlaw mentioning the names of both the former president and his wife Evita, a woman particularly popular with the poor Argentines of the working class, as Article I of the decree banned not only the \"photographs, portraits, and sculptures\" of the former president but also the very names of Juan and Eva Perón, the names of Perón's officials, and other symbols and references to the Peróns, the former administration, and the Justicialist Party. Two musical works which celebrated Juan and Eva Perón \"Marcha de los Muchachos Peronista\" and \"Evita Capitana\" were banned explicitly.\n\nAramburu himself only referred to Perón as \"the monster\" and newspapers identified him as \"the fugitive tyrant.\" Historian Antonius Robben describes the shouting of Perón's name as \"a small act of resistance\" under Aramburu.\n\n"}
{"id": "180558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=180558", "title": "Domestic Security Enhancement Act of 2003", "text": "Domestic Security Enhancement Act of 2003\n\nThe Domestic Security Enhancement Act of 2003 was draft legislation written by United States Department of Justice during the George W. Bush administration, under the tenure of United States Attorney General John Ashcroft. The Center for Public Integrity obtained a copy of the draft marked \"confidential\" on February 7, 2003 and posted it on its Web site along with commentary. It was sometimes called Patriot II, after the USA PATRIOT Act, which was enacted in 2001. It was never introduced to the United States Congress.\n\nThe draft version of the bill would have expanded the powers of the United States federal government while simultaneously curtailing judicial review of these powers. Members of the United States Congress said that they had not seen the drafts, though the documents obtained by the CPI indicated that Speaker of the United States House of Representatives Dennis Hastert and Vice President Dick Cheney had received copies.\n\nProvisions of the draft version included:\n\nSome provisions of this act have been tacked onto other bills such as the Senate Spending bill and subsequently passed.\n\nThe American Civil Liberties Union and the Bill of Rights Defense Committee have all been vocal opponents of the PATRIOT Act of 2001, the proposed (as of 2003) PATRIOT 2 Act, and other associated legislation made in response to the threat of domestic terrorism that it believes violates either the letter and/or the spirit of the U.S. Bill of Rights.\n\nOn January 31, 2006 the Center for Public Integrity published a story on its website that claimed that this proposed legislation undercut the Bush administration's legal rationale of its NSA wiretapping program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49620477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49620477", "title": "Election law of the Republic of the Congo", "text": "Election law of the Republic of the Congo\n\nCongo’s electoral law was approved in 2001 and amended in 2007, 2012, 2014 and 2016. It aims to provide the conditions for a democratic and transparent electoral system, from campaigning and media access through voter registration, vote counting and certification.\n\nPresidential and parliamentary elections take place under a two-round majority system. In presidential elections, this means that if no candidate reaches 50% in the first round, there is a second round 21 days afterwards, featuring the top two candidates. In parliamentary elections, each parliamentary seat is decided by a single-seat constituency vote, with a second round taking place if no candidate reaches 50% in a constituency.\n\nUnder Congolese electoral law, all adults over the age of 18 can vote (including those who are not yet 18 but will be at the time of the election).\n\nAn election campaign in the Republic of Congo begins 15 days before the vote. It finishes two days before the vote, at midnight (as elections are always on Sundays in Congo, this means that campaigning must cease Friday at midnight).\n\nThe electoral law regulates posters, election rallies, leaflets, the press and other media appearances. During the election period, equal space is given for the election posters of all candidates. Rallies are authorised but must be declared to the authorities 24 hours before taking place. In addition, on-screen time and access is provided in state broadcast media for all candidates. Civil servants are not allowed to engage in campaigning.\n\nOn voting day – which is from 7am to 6pm on Sundays (though it can be extended if there are more voters than anticipated) – all parties are entitled to have delegates at all polling stations. Vote counting involves an initial tally of the number of votes cast to ensure a match with the number of declared voters. Once this is completed, votes per candidate are counted. The votes are transmitted electronically to the electoral commission on the day, but it is not until the paper copies are received that the vote is certified and deemed official.\n\nThe preparation of elections is under the control of the interior ministry, which is in charge of voter rolls, receiving candidacies for elections, acquiring and distributing election materials. However, the organisation of elections is under the power of the electoral commission – formerly the National Commission for the Organisation of Elections (CONEL – Commission nationale d’organisation des élections) and now the Independent National Election Commission (CNEI – Commission nationale électorale indépendante).\n\nThe national electoral commission is in charge of verifying electoral rolls, ensuring the election campaign is without incident, collecting and assembling election results, and transmitting the results to the interior minister and Constitutional Court. It is made up of civil servants, members of political parties and civil society. Local electoral commissions have a similar composition and are supervised by the national commission.\n\nThe most recent modification of the law came on January 14, 2016, with the creation of a new electoral commission, the Independent National Election Commission (CNEI – Commission nationale électorale indépendante). This replaced the National Commission for the Organisation of Elections (CONEL – Commission nationale d’organisation des élections). The CNEI is made up of members of both government and opposition parties, as well as civil society, and is set up to be independent and financially autonomous. Indeed, the new budget law assigns a specific budget line to the CNEI.\n\nBallot papers have also changed in line with demands by the opposition – moving to a single ballot paper. This limits opportunities to cheat by taking and using several ballots – as voters will now be given a single paper on which they will be asked to place one cross or tick.\n\nWhile parties were already entitled to have representatives at all polling stations, their agreement in certifying the vote count is now mandatory. These changes have been noted by the opposition, which has welcomed progress made.\n\nIn addition, the election deposit has changed, meaning prospective candidates are required to pay a deposit of 25,000,000 CFA francs. This was reduced from initial proposals in parliament, on the grounds that more candidates should be able to run.\n\nThere will be new rules on state funding of political parties brought in after the elections.\n"}
{"id": "26660485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26660485", "title": "Equal Justice for Troops blog", "text": "Equal Justice for Troops blog\n\nEqual Justice for Troops blog is a military justice and veterans blog which discusses issues affecting servicemembers and veterans of Australia and United States. The topics of the blog concern military justice, health, freedom of information, privacy, defense spending, active duty pay, retirement benefits, housing and national security matters. There is also discussion on the rights of servicemembers and veterans to exercise their rights to redress grievances and issues of fairness affecting military personnel and veterans. It was created in March 2009 by U.S. Navy veteran Norbert Basil MacLean III O'Connor Keough who is a dual citizen of Australia and the United States.\n\nIn February 2010, the blog was selected for preservation by the National Library of Australia due to its national significance.\n\n"}
{"id": "219871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219871", "title": "Family patrimony", "text": "Family patrimony\n\nFamily patrimony is a type of civil law patrimony that is created by marriage or civil union (where recognized) which creates a bundle of entitlements and obligations that must be shared by the spouses or partners upon divorce, annulment, dissolution of marriage or dissolution of civil union, when there must be a division of property. It is similar to the common law concept of community property.\n"}
{"id": "17512545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17512545", "title": "Federal tax revenue by state", "text": "Federal tax revenue by state\n\nThis is a table of the total federal tax revenue by state collected by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.\n\nGross Collections indicates the total federal tax revenue collected by the IRS from each U.S. state, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico. The figure includes all Individual federal taxes and Corporate Federal Taxes income taxes, payroll taxes, estate taxes, gift taxes, and excise taxes. This table does not include federal tax revenue data from U.S. Armed Forces personnel stationed overseas, U.S. territories other than Puerto Rico, and U.S. citizens and legal residents living abroad, even though they may be required to pay federal taxes.\n\nThis table lists the tax revenue collected from each state, plus the District of Columbia and the territory of Puerto Rico by the IRS in fiscal year 2015, which ran from October 1, 2014, through September 30, 2015. The gross collections total only reflects the revenue collected from the categories listed in the table, and not the entire revenue collected by the IRS. Per capita values are based on population estimates from the Census Bureau for July 1, 2015.\nGSP is the Gross State Product\n\nThis table lists the tax revenue collected from each state, plus the District of Columbia and the territory of Puerto Rico by the IRS in fiscal year 2012, which ran from October 1, 2011, through September 30, 2012. The gross collections total only reflects the revenue collected from the categories listed in the table, and not the entire revenue collected by the IRS. Per capita values are based on population estimates from the Census Bureau for July 1, 2012.\nGSP is the Gross State Product\n\nThis table lists the tax revenue collected from each state, plus the District of Columbia and the territory of Puerto Rico by the IRS in fiscal year 2011, which ran from October 1, 2010, through September 30, 2011. The gross collections total only reflects the revenue collected from the categories listed in the table, and not the entire revenue collected by the IRS. Per capita values are based on population estimates from the Census Bureau for July 1, 2011.\n\n\nFederal taxes:\n\nState taxes:\n\nGeneral:\n\nNew table is available for 2015 to update the data. Also - would be good to be able to see some trends in the data in terms of growth by state in terms of taxes paid\n\n"}
{"id": "47231857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47231857", "title": "Insubordinate movement in Spain", "text": "Insubordinate movement in Spain\n\nThe Insubordinate movement (Spanish: \"Movimiento insumiso\" or \"Insumisión\", Catalan: \"Moviment d'insubmissió\", Galician: \"Movemento insubmiso\", Basque: \"Matxinada\") was a mass antimilitarist movement of civil disobedience to compulsory military service in Spain, the movement lasting from the early 1980s until the abolition of conscription on 31 December 2001.\n\nThe immediate predecessor of insubordination was the movement of conscientious objectors initiated in the last years of the Francoist regime, a movement seeking legal recognition of the right not to perform the, then, compulsory military service on conscience or moral grounds. Objectors, therefore, refused the army, but were nevertheless prosecuted and tried by it, and in many cases ended up in military prisons.\n\nIn 1984 the Congreso de los Diputados passed a law on conscientious objection, which recognised the rights of objectors, establishing a civilian service of 18 months, called \"Prestación Social Sustitutoria\" (\"Substitutionary Social Service\", PSS), as an alternative to 12 months compulsory military service. The previous objectors were then amnestied and freed from military obligations. A few of them, however, considered that the longer duration of the PSS penalised objectors, amounted to forced labour, and deprived ordinary workers of jobs; they demanded complete abolition of military service. Those objectors therefore rejected the amnesty and returned to Spain apparently ready to be called up.\n\nWhen the army tried to enlist them again, the so-called \"Insumisos\" (\"insubordinates\") refused to join either the army or the PSS. By doing so they committed a crime and were tried again, but the existence of a largely unfavourable public opinion to compulsory military service made the judicial proceedings, especially when the penalty included imprisonment, a considerable political cost for the government.\n\nRefusal to perform military service was punishable under the military penal code, and was part of the jurisdiction of the army, with a minimum penalty of a year in jail. Refusal to perform PSS was punished by the ordinary penal code, with two years, four months and one day in prison.\n\nIn subsequent years the number of young people refusing to join the army or, once recognised as conscientious objectors, refused to perform PSS, exponentially increased. If repression of the \"insumisos\" was difficult, given the broad social support that they had, it was even more difficult when undertaken by the military courts, because the military courts were denounced by antimilitarists as \"judge and jury\" in the army's own cause, and because the accused were not part of the army, but remained civilians. Also, the adjudication of civilians by military courts and sending them to prison evoked for many the Franco era. Thus, the army asked the government to release it from the task of repressing the insubordination movement, which was finally agreed by the government. From then the \"insumisos\" were tried by ordinary courts. Despite this, in the first years the ordinary courts continued applying military law. Later the ordinary courts judged the \"insumisos\" by applying a reformed version of the ordinary penal code that included the crime of refusing to perform military service, with an increased penalty to equate it to that applied for refusing to do PSS.\n\nThe Insubordination was a grassroots, nonpartisan and decentralised movement. Despite the nonpartisan character it was supported by several left-wing parties, like the United Left, Herri Batasuna, Republican Left of Catalonia, Galician Nationalist Bloc, Auzolan, Popular Unity Candidates, Socialist Party of Mallorca, Galician Socialist Party-Galician Left, Valencian Nationalist Bloc, Unitarian Candidacy of Workers, Communist Movement, LCR and many others. In all the major cities there were assemblies of \"insumisos\", co-ordinated with each other in different antimilitarist fora. The most important groups were the Conscientious Objection Movement (MOC), close to the ideas of nonviolence, and a constellation of groups generically called Mili KK, more linked to the extra-parliamentary left, although the dividing lines were never totally clear. Anarchist groups also played an important role in the antimilitarist struggle, promoting most of them total disobedience tactics (such as the CNT, CGT and FIJL organisations). In the late 1980s and the 1990s many antimilitaristic, magazines and groups appeared. On the eve of the disappearance of compulsory military service the number of \"insumisos\" exceeded the tens of thousands, probably more than the number of \"no-insumisos\".\n\nInsubordination was mostly a purely antimilitarist movement. There were also, however, people who joined the insubordination for other reasons, especially, in more recent times, people favouring a professional army. One of the most important components of the insubordination movement were the Basque, Catalan, Galician or Canarian nationalists, not necessarily anti-militarist, although the majority were also strong antimilitarists and antiimperialists; that especially applied to the Galicians and Canarians, who denounced the presence of any military force in their respective territories, and routinely protested against them. The Basque Abertzale left also considered the Spanish army an occupation force in the Southern Basque Country, and campaigned for full withdrawal of any Spanish army from Euskadi; who refused to serve in a \"Spanish\" army. Another reason for insubordination was the popular perception of the Spanish army as a fascist and/or francoist institution, a perception renewed by the various coup attempts in the 1980s, like the 23F in 1981 or the 2J conspiracy in 1985. Some people also opposed military service on religious grounds, such as the Jehovah's Witnesses or some pacifist Christians.\n\nRegarding the strategy to follow in civil disobedience, there were also different viewpoints:\n\nThose who could not be \"insumisos\" (for example, men who had already completed military service or women) put up initiatives of \"self-incrimination\": based on the legal principle that whoever incites someone to commit an offence is also guilty, they signed statements accusing themselves of promoting insubordination. Self-incriminations were generally not accepted by the courts. Many people used self-incriminations to establish an active link with the insubordinate movement, among them prominent intellectuals, politicians, filmmakers, singers, actors and other personalities and celebrities.\n\nThe Spanish insubordinate movement was a civil disobedience movement unparalleled in any other European country, its closest precedent in the Western world being the disobedience and insubordination to the Vietnam War in the United States. Attempts to do something similar in other countries, such as Germany and France, failed due to the lack of a social base and popular support. The success of insubordination in Spain has been attributed to an antimilitarist sentiment supposedly rooted in the Spanish society and linked both to the resistance against conscription during the Carlist Wars and during the Rif War between 1909 and 1927, and even some have tried to establish a relationship of this movement to the wide diffusion of anarchism in Spain (a minor phenomenon elsewhere), specially in the first decades of the twentieth century.\n\nInsubordination was one of the main causes of the reduction of military service from 12 to 9 months and, later, of its total abolition. The other main cause was the 1996 pact between the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party and Convergence and Union in 1996, that included the disappearance of military service in 2001.\n\n1937 \n\n1960-1970\n\n1970\n\n1971\n\n\n1972\n\n1974\n\n1975\n\n1976\n\n1977\n\n1978\n\n1979\n\n1980\n\n1981\n\n1982\n\n1983\n\n1984\n\n1985\n\n1986\n\n1987\n\n1988\n\n1989\n\n1990\n\n1991\n\n1992\n\n1993\n\n1994\n\n1995\n\n1996\n\n1997\n\n1998\n\n1999\n\n2000\n\n2001\n\n2002\n\nOne of the main ways of propaganda of the Insubordinate movement was music, mainly within the punk scene, but also in pop and pop rock, Metal, Ska and other scenes. Antimilitarist music was very popular among the youth during the campaign against Military Service. Some groups like Negu Gorriak even donated their profits to the movement. Among the most notable songs and hymns are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4778682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4778682", "title": "Laffey Matrix", "text": "Laffey Matrix\n\nThe Laffey Matrix is a fee schedule used by many United States courts for determining the reasonable hourly rates in the District of Columbia for attorneys' fee awards under federal fee-shifting statutes.\n\nThe \"Laffey\" Matrix originated in \"Laffey v. Northwest Airlines\", 572 F. Supp. 354 (D.D.C. 1983), reversed, 746 F.2d 4 (D.C. Cir. 1984), overruled, \"Save Our Cumberland Mountains v. Hodel\", 857 F.2d 1516, 1525 (D.C. Cir. 1988) (en banc). Counsel in the \"Laffey\" case compiled evidence from firms showing the market rates in the District of Columbia for complex federal litigation. That evidence was analyzed and a matrix of rates for attorneys at various experience levels was created, later becoming known as the \"Laffey\" Matrix. \n\nBased on \"Blum v. Stenson\", 465 U.S. 886 (1984), the district court in \"Laffey\" adopted the matrix and expressly rejected the use of the size or type of the law firm in setting hourly rates. \"Laffey v. Northwest Airlines, Inc., supra\", 572 F. Supp. at 374. On appeal, the Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit rejected use of the matrix in favor of the firm’s actual billing rate, thus restricting fee awards to small firms, such as the counsel in \"Laffey\", to their own reduced billing rates. \"Laffey v. Northwest Airlines, supra\", 746 F.2d at 24-25. Four years later, in \"Save Our Cumberland Mountains\", the D.C. Circuit sitting \"en banc\" overruled the \"Laffey\" decision (857 F.2d at 1524) stating:\n\nCongress did not intend the private but public-spirited rate-cutting attorney to be penalized for his public spiritedness by being paid on a lower scale than either his higher priced fellow barrister from a more established firm or his salaried neighbor at a legal services clinic.\n\nIn short, we conclude that our prior decision in \"Laffey v. Northwest Airlines, Inc.\", and the panel decision in this case, which it compelled, are both inconsistent with the Supreme Court’s decision in \"Blum v. Stenson\" which construed those statutes. We therefore expressly overrule \"Laffey\" to the extent that it imposes the above discussed different method of determining reasonable attorney fees on attorneys situated as Yablonski and Galloway are here. Henceforth, the prevailing market rate method heretofore used in awarding fees to traditional for-profit firms and public interest legal services organizations shall apply as well to those attorneys who practice privately and for profit but at reduced rates reflecting non-economic goals.\n\nThe original \"Laffey\" Matrix provided market rates for the period from June 1, 1981, through May 31, 1982, based on different levels of experience . At the urging of the D.C. Circuit in its \"en banc\" decision in \"Save Our Cumberland Mountains v. Hodel, supra\", 857 F.2d at 1525, the matrix was updated through May 31, 1989, in connection with a settlement reached on remand in that case. \"See, e.g.,\" \"Trout v. Ball\", 705 F. Supp. 705, 709, n. 10 (D.D.C. 1989)(the updated matrix developed in \"Save Our Cumberland Mountains v. Hodel\" “does provide an updated and accurate schedule of attorney fees in this District”).\n\nThe applicant for a fee award must establish the prevailing market rates. To establish the prevailing market rates in the District of Columbia, the applicant “may point to such evidence as an updated version of the \"Laffey\" Matrix or the U.S. Attorney’s Office matrix, or their own survey of prevailing market rates in the community.” \"Covington v. District of Columbia\", 57 F.3d 1101, 1109 (D.C. Cir. 1995).\n\nFee applicants often point to the \"Laffey\" Matrix. Over the years, two methods of updating the \"Laffey\" Matrix have developed: the U.S. Attorney’s Office \"Laffey\" Matrix and the Legal Service Index-Updated \"Laffey\" Matrix. These methods produce different hourly rates. These competing methods are addressed below.\n\nFor many years, the United States Attorney's Office used the \"Laffey\" Matrix (\"USAO Laffey Matrix\") as a basis for hourly rates for attorneys' fees in litigation claims. This matrix used the original \"Laffey\" Matrix from 1982 and updated it annually using changes in the Bureau of Labor Statistics Consumer Price Index for all Urban Consumers for the Washington-Baltimore area. The result was a routinely updated United States Attorney’s Office Matrix; a table which provided hourly rates, based on years of experience, for attorneys, paralegals and law clerks in the Washington, D.C. area. In 2015, the USAO revised its method. Its matrix is no longer based on the \"Laffey\" Matrix. Its matrix is now based on ALM survey data from 2010-2011 updated using the Producer Price Index-Office of Lawyers (PPI-OL) index (the \"USAO-ALM Matrix\"). The USAO-ALM Matrix is based on rates for all types of legal services, not exclusively complex federal litigation like the \"Laffey\" Matrix. It is also based on rates for the Washington metro area (which includes areas in West Virginia, Virginia, Maryland, and Washington, DC), not just the District of Columbia. The USAO-ALM Matrix is also divided into more experience levels than the USAO \"Laffey\" Matrix.\n\nMany defendants have taken the position that the USAO \"Laffey\" Matrix should be used instead of the Legal Service Index (LSI) update method presumably because the USAO \"Laffey\" Matrix produces lower hourly rates than the LSI-Updated \"Laffey\" Matrix. The USAO-ALM Matrix also produces hourly rates that are lower than the LSI-Updated \"Laffey\" Matrix. Some courts in the United States have used the USAO \"Laffey\" Matrix when awarding attorneys' fees under a fee-shifting statute, such as the Civil Rights Attorney's Fees Awards Act.\n\nBased on \"Covington\", some fee applicants have established the prevailing market rates using the \"Laffey\" Matrix updated by the Legal Services Component of the Consumer Price Index referred to as the Legal Services Index or the LSI. The LSI is provided monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The LSI-Updated \"Laffey\" Matrix is based on the 1989 update of the \"Laffey\" Matrix. The LSI-Updated \"Laffey\" Matrix produces higher hourly rates than the USAO \"Laffey\" Matrix or the USAO-ALM Matrix. Some courts in the United States have awarded fees using the LSI-Updated \"Laffey\" Matrix. In December 2015, the D.C. Circuit affirmed such a fee award. \"Salazar v. District of Columbia,\" 809 F.3d 58 (D.C. Cir. 2015). The D.C. Circuit agreed with the district court that the evidence presented by plaintiffs demonstrates that the LSI-Updated \"Laffey\" Matrix 'is probably a \"conservative\" estimate of the actual cost of legal services in this area’” (emphasis in original). It concluded that “[t]he District, neither below nor on appeal, rebuts this logic with relevant arguments.” The Court noted that the fact that other courts have applied the USAO \"Laffey\" Matrix “is not compelling.”\n\nOther courts have rejected the LSI-Updated \"Laffey\" Matrix, particularly for cases in the Washington-Baltimore region, and have based fee awards the USAO \"Laffey\" Matrix. \"See, e.g., Pleasants v. Ridge,\" 424 F. Supp. 2d 67, n.2 (D.D.C. 2006); \"Judicial Watch, Inc. v. BLM,\" No. 07-1570, 2008 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 49069.\n\nThe Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit affirmed a fee award based on the LSI-Updated \"Laffey\" Matrix for a Washington, D.C., law firm litigating a case in New Jersey. \"Interfaith Community Organization v. Honeywell International, Inc.,\" 426 F.3d 694 (3rd Cir. 2005)(\"In updating the matrix to account for inflation from 1989-2003, ICO relied on the legal services component of the nationwide Consumer Price Index ('the Legal Services Index'), a measure of inflation in the cost of legal services maintained by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.\"). The Court of Appeals noted that the District Court \"reviewed both indices [the USAO \"Laffey\" Matrix and the LSI-Updated \"Laffey\" Matrix] and decided that [the LSI-Updated \"Laffey\" Matrix] represented a better measure of prevailing rates in Washington, DC. In so doing, it relied on a decision by the District Court for the District of Columbia, \"Salazar v. District of Columbia\", 123 F.Supp.2d 8 (D.D.C.2000), which compared the U.S. Attorney's Laffey Matrix with a matrix similar to that put forward by ICO in this case and concluded that the latter method was superior. \"Salazar\" is one of the few decisions approving the use of this approach, and it is, according to ICO, the only decision (prior to the District Court decision in this case) comparing the two approaches.\" \"ICO v. Honeywell International, Inc., supra,\" 426 F. 3d at 709. The Third Circuit issued a similar affirmance of a fee award based on the LSI-Updated \"Laffey\" Matrix in \"ICO v. Honeywell International, Inc.,\" 726 F. 3d 744 (3d Cir. 2013).\n\nThe Fourth Circuit expressly disapproved reliance on the \"Laffey\" Matrix in \"Robinson v. Equifax Information Services, LLC,\" 560 F.3d 235 (4th Cir. 2009), requiring instead that fee awards be based on prevailing market rates established by evidence.\n\nSome California Federal courts have accepted the same methodology, adjusting the \"Laffey\" Matrix upwards based upon the higher costs of living in Los Angeles and other California cities. \"In Re HPL Technologies, Inc. Securities Litigation\", 366 F.Supp.2d 912, 921 (N. Dist. Cal. 2005). \"See also\" “It is the practice of the undersigned judge, however, to rely on official data to determine appropriate hourly rates, not on an attorney's self-proclaimed rates or declarations regarding hourly rates charged by law firms. One reliable official source for rates that vary by experience levels is the Laffey matrix used in the District of Columbia.” \"Garnes v. Barnhardt\", 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 5938 (N. Dist. Cal. 2006).\n\nThe Legal Services component of the National CPI, referred to as the Legal Services Index or LSI, measures price changes in simple legal services used by household consumers, such as basic wills, uncontested divorces, power of attorneys and DWI defenses. Prices for business-related legal services and complex litigation cases are covered in the Producer Price Index. Contingency fees such as those that are commonly used in litigation settings are not taken into account since they are not relevant to these basic consumer legal services. To determine prices, the BLS contacts practicing attorneys and records prices for a defined “procedure” (such as an uncontested divorce) rather than an hourly unit of an attorney’s or paralegal’s time. Discounted fees are not incorporated into the data unless the contacted attorney routinely gives one for a specific service. The LSI is not specific to Washington, DC; it is a national index.\n\nLaura Malowane of Economists Incorporated is an economist with a Ph.D. from Princeton University. She believes that the LSI-Updated \"Laffey\" Matrix is inferior to the USAO \"Laffey\" Matrix for the following reasons: 1) The LSI measures prices changes in basic, personal, consumer-oriented legal services such as uncontested divorce and DUI and not complex federal litigation; 2) The LSI is a nationwide average index and not specific to the D.C. metropolitan region; 3) The LSI is primarily for flat-fee services rather than hourly rates; 4) The LSI does not take into account discounted rates, contingency fees, and other reasons actual collected rates may differ from hourly billing rates; and 5) Actual hourly billing rates of attorneys in the Washington, D.C. area are, according to published survey data, more accurately represented by rates outlined in the USAO \"Laffey\" Matrix than in the LSI-Updated \"Laffey\" Matrix.\n\nDr. Michael Kavanaugh is an economist in private practice in Volcano, Hawaii. He is the economist credited by the D.C. Circuit in the \"Salazar\" case. In his opinion, the LSI-Updated \"Laffey\" Matrix is a better reflection of the District of Columbia market for complex federal litigation for the following reasons: 1) it is based on more recent observations (1989 data compared to 1982 data), which is more likely to produce a better forecast of actual rates; 2) the LSI is specific to legal services whereas the CPI is based on a basket of general goods that is dominated by the cost of housing, food, etc.; 3) the LSI includes some services associated with litigation, such as, preparing briefs and attending depositions; 4) the Washington, D.C. market for complex federal litigation is a national market where firms from across the country compete to provide such services; 5) market data shows that the LSI-Updated \"Laffey\" Matrix produces rates that are below market and the USAO \"Laffey\" Matrix rates are even lower.\n\nAnother method is to adjust for local costs of wages to lawyers and paralegals. The Laffey Matrix can be adjusted for local costs using the Bureau of Labor Statistics data on wages paid to lawyers (occupation code 23-1011) and paralegals (occupation code 23-2011) for primary metropolitan statistical areas in each state (http://www.bls.gov). This method appears to be a re-formulation of the argument rejected in \"Blum v. Stenson, supra,\" 465 U.S. at 892, 895-896, that compensation to some attorneys should be based on costs including salary levels.\n\nHere is what the hourly rate Matrix looks like for June 1, 2006 to May 31, 2007 for D.C., 5 cities in California, Hartford, CT and New York City (NYC) after adjustments are made for local labor costs.\n\nThis will need to be adjusted when the May CPI figures are available and the Laffey Matrix is updated by the LaffeyMatrix.com administrators, based upon DOL BLS new wage data available, usually in early July of each year.\n\n"}
{"id": "23375447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23375447", "title": "Law Reports", "text": "Law Reports\n\nThe Law Reports is the name of a series of law reports published by the Incorporated Council of Law Reporting.\n\nThe Council maintains that they are \"'the most authoritative reports' and should always be 'cited in preference where there is a choice'.\" This series is now divided into four main sub-series:\n\nThe number and names of the series have changed. This is partly due to the merger of existing courts, the merger of existing divisions of individual courts, and the creation of new divisions of individual courts. Citation of series has also changed.\n\nThe Law Reports were originally divided into eleven series. Glanville Williams said that \"roughly speaking\" there was a series for each of the superior courts. The series were:\n\n\nHouse of Lords, English and Irish Appeals. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nHouse of Lords, Scotch and Divorce Appeals. These reports may be cited in the following ways:\n\nPrivy Council Appeals. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nChancery Appeal Cases. These reports may be cited in the following ways:\n\nEquity Cases. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nCrown Cases Reserved. These reports may be cited in the following ways:\n\nQueens Bench Cases. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nCommon Pleas Cases. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nExchequer Cases. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nAdmiralty and Ecclesiastical Cases. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nProbate and Divorce Cases. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nIn 1875, the number of series was reduced to six. This was due to the creation of the High Court and a decision on the part of the publishers, to put the House of Lords, the Privy Council and the new Court of Appeal in the same volume, and to group Crown Cases Reserved and the Queen's Bench Division together. The series were:\n\n\nThere was a change in the mode of citation. The abbreviation \"LR\" ceased to be used.\n\nAppeal Cases. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nChancery Division. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nQueens Bench Division. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nCommon Pleas Division. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nExchequer Division. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nProbate Division. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nIn 1881, the number of series was reduced to four. This is because the Common Pleas and Exchequer Divisions of the High Court were incorporated in the Queen's Bench Division of that court in 1880:\n\n\nAppeal Cases. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nChancery Division. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nQueens Bench Division. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nProbate Division. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nThere have continued to be four series during this period, but their names have changed from time to time.\n\n\nIn 1891, there was a change in the mode of citation. Volumes published from 1891 onwards are cited by the year in which they were published and numbered according to the order of publication in that year, if more than one volume has been published in that year.\n\nAppeal Cases. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nChancery Division. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nQueens Bench Division. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nKings Bench Division. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nProbate Division. These reports may be cited thus:\n\nFamily Division. These reports may be cited thus:\n\n"}
{"id": "11164587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11164587", "title": "Legal history of cannabis in the United States", "text": "Legal history of cannabis in the United States\n\nThe legal history of cannabis in the United States pertains to the regulation of cannabis (legal term marijuana or marihuana) for medical, recreational, and industrial purposes in the United States. Increased restrictions and labeling of cannabis as a poison began in many states from 1906 onward, and outright prohibitions began in the 1920s. By the mid-1930s cannabis was regulated as a drug in every state, including 35 states that adopted the Uniform State Narcotic Drug Act. The first national regulation was the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937.\n\nCannabis was officially outlawed for any use (medical included) with the passage of the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) of 1970. Multiple efforts to reschedule cannabis under the CSA have failed, and the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled in \"United States v. Oakland Cannabis Buyers' Cooperative\" and \"Gonzales v. Raich\" that the federal government has a right to regulate and criminalize cannabis, even for medical purposes. Despite this, states and other jurisdictions have continued to implement policies that conflict with federal law, beginning with the passage of California's Proposition 215 in 1996. By 2016 a majority of states had legalized medical cannabis, and in 2012 the first states legalized recreational use.\n\nIn 1619, King James I decreed that the American colonists of Jamestown would need to step up efforts to do their fair share towards supporting England. The Virginia Company enacted the decree, asking Jamestown's land owners to grow and export 100 hemp plants to help support England's cause. Later the colonists would grow it to support its expansion in the Americas. Cannabis cultivation played a central role in the establishment of the United States, with cannabis appearing on the ten dollar bill as late as 1900. George Washington grew hemp at Mount Vernon as one of his three primary crops. The use of hemp for rope and fabric later became ubiquitous throughout the 18th and 19th centuries in the United States. Medicinal preparations of cannabis became available in American pharmacies in the 1850s following an introduction to its use in Western medicine by William O'Shaughnessy a decade earlier in 1839.\n\nAround the same time, efforts to regulate the sale of pharmaceuticals began, and laws were introduced on a state-to-state basis that created penalties for mislabeling drugs, adulterating them with undisclosed narcotics, and improper sale of those considered \"poisons\". Poison laws generally either required labels on the packaging indicating the harmful effects of the drugs or prohibited sale outside of licensed pharmacies and without a doctor's prescription. Those that required labeling often required the word \"poison\" if the drug was not issued by a pharmacy. Other regulations were prohibitions on the sale to minors, as well as restrictions on refills. Some pharmaceutical laws specifically enumerated the drugs that came under the effect of the regulations, while others did not—leaving the matter to medical experts. Those that did generally included references to cannabis, either under the category of \"cannabis and its preparations\" or \"hemp and its preparations.\"\n\nA 1905 Bulletin from the United States Department of Agriculture lists twenty-nine states with laws mentioning cannabis. Eight states are listed with \"sale of poisons\" laws that specifically mention cannabis: North Carolina, Ohio, Wisconsin, Louisiana, Vermont, Maine, Montana; and the District of Columbia. Among those states that required a prescription for sale were Wisconsin and Louisiana. Several \"sale of poison\" laws did not specify restricted drugs, including in Indiana, Rhode Island, Hawaii, Nebraska, Kentucky, Mississippi, and New York. Many states did not consider cannabis a \"poison\" but required it be labeled.\n\nIn New York, the original law did enumerate cannabis, and was passed in 1860 following a string of suicides allegedly involving the substances later categorized as poisons. The first draft of the bill 'An act to regulate the sale of poisons' prohibited the sale of cannabis—as with the other substances—without the written order of a physician. The final bill as passed allowed the sale without a prescription so long as the purpose to which it was issued and name and address of the buyer was recorded, and in addition, all packaging of such substances—whether sold with a prescription or not—had to have the label \"poison\" on them in uppercase red letters. In 1862, the section which enumerated the substances was repealed with an amendatory act, though cannabis was still required to be labeled.\n\nIn some states where poison laws excluded cannabis, there were nonetheless attempts to include it. A bill introduced in 1880 in the California state legislature was titled 'An act to regulate the sale of opium and other narcotic poisons' and would have forbidden anyone to keep, sell, furnish, or give away any \"preparations or mixtures made or prepared from opium, hemp, or other narcotic drugs\" without a doctor's prescription at a licensed store. That bill was withdrawn in favor of one specifically aimed at opium, though further bills including hemp-based drugs were introduced in 1885 and in 1889.\n\nAs early as 1853, recreational cannabis was listed as a \"fashionable narcotic\". By the 1880s, oriental-style hashish parlors were flourishing alongside opium dens, to the point that one could be found in every major city on the east coast. It was estimated there were around 500 such establishments in New York City alone.\n\nAn article in Harper’s Magazine (1883), attributed to Harry Hubbell Kane, describes a hashish-house in New York frequented by a large clientele, including males and females of \"the better classes,\" and further talks about parlors in Boston, Philadelphia and Chicago. Hemp cigarettes were reported to be used by Mexican soldiers as early as 1874.\n\nThe Pure Food and Drug Act was then passed by the United States Congress in 1906 and required that certain special drugs, including cannabis, be accurately labeled with contents. Previously, many drugs had been sold as patent medicines with secret ingredients or misleading labels. Even after the passage of regulations, there continued to be criticism about the availability of narcotics and around 1910 there was a wave of legislation aimed to strengthen requirements for their sale and remove what were commonly referred to as \"loopholes\" in poison laws. The new revisions aimed to restrict all narcotics, including cannabis, as poisons, limit their sale to pharmacies, and require doctor's prescriptions. The first instance was in the District of Columbia in 1906, under \"An act to regulate the practice of pharmacy and the sale of poisons in the District of Columbia, and for other purposes\". The act was updated in 1938 to the Federal Pure Food, Drug, and Cosmetics Act of 1938 which remains in effect even today, creating a legal paradox for federal sentencing. Under this act, the framework for prescription and non-prescription drugs and foods are set, along with standards as well as the enforcing agency, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). \"Goods found in violation of the law were subject to seizure and destruction at the expense of the manufacturer. That, combined with a legal requirement that all convictions be published (Notices of Judgment), proved to be important tools in the enforcement of the statute and had a deterrent effect upon would-be violators.\" Marijuana remains under this law defined as a \"dangerous drug\".\n\nFurther regulation of cannabis followed in Massachusetts (1911), New York (1914), and Maine (1914). In New York, reform legislation began under the Towns-Boylan Act, which targeted all \"habit-forming drugs\", restricted their sale, prohibited refills in order to prevent habituation, prohibited sale to people with a habit, and prohibited doctors who were themselves habituated from selling them. Shortly after, several amendments were passed by the New York Board of Health, including adding cannabis to the list of habit-forming drugs.\n\nA \"New York Times\" article noted on the cannabis amendment:\n\nIn the West, the first state to include cannabis as a poison was California. The Poison Act was passed in 1907 and amended in 1909 and 1911, and in 1913 an amendatory act was made to make possession of \"extracts, tinctures, or other narcotic preparations of hemp, or loco-weed, their preparations and compounds\" a misdemeanor. There is no evidence that the law was ever used or intended to restrict pharmaceutical cannabis; instead it was a legislative mistake, and in 1915 another revision placed cannabis under the same restriction as other poisons. In 1914, one of the first cannabis drug raids in the nation occurred in the Mexican-American neighborhood of Sonoratown in Los Angeles, where police raided two \"dream gardens\" and confiscated a wagonload of cannabis.\n\nOther states followed with marijuana laws including: Wyoming (1915); Texas (1919); Iowa (1923); Nevada (1923); Oregon (1923); Washington (1923); Arkansas (1923); Nebraska (1927); Louisiana (1927); and Colorado (1929).\n\nOne source of tensions in the western and southwestern states was the influx of Mexicans to the U.S. following the 1910 Mexican Revolution. Many Mexicans also smoked marijuana to relax after working in the fields. It was also seen as a cheaper alternative to alcohol, due to Prohibition (which went into effect nationally in 1920). Later in the 1920s, negative tensions grew between the small farms and the large farms that used cheaper Mexican labor. Shortly afterwards, the Great Depression came which increased tensions as jobs and resources became more scarce. Because of that, the passage of the initial laws is often described as a product of racism, yet the use of hashish by Near Eastern immigrants was also cited, as well as the misuse of pharmaceutical hemp, and the laws conformed with other legislation that was being passed around the country. Mexico itself had passed prohibition in 1925, following the International Opium Convention (see below).\n\nIn 1925, the United States supported regulation of Indian hemp, also known as hashish, in the International Opium Convention. The convention banned exportation of \"Indian hemp\", and the preparations derived therefrom, to countries that had prohibited its use and required importing countries to issue certificates approving the importation and stating that the shipment was required \"exclusively for medical or scientific purposes\". The convention did not ban trade in fibers and other similar products from European hemp, traditionally grown in the United States. According to the 1912 edition of the Swedish encyclopedia \"Nordisk familjebok\", the European hemp grown for its fibers lacks the THC content that characterizes Indian hemp.\n\nThe Uniform State Narcotic Drug Act, first tentative draft in 1925 and fifth final version in 1932, was a result of work by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws. It was argued that the traffic in narcotic drugs should have the same safeguards and the same regulation in all of the states. The committee took into consideration the fact that the federal government had already passed the Harrison Act in 1914 and the Federal Import and Export Act in 1922. Many people assumed that the Harrison Act was all that was necessary. The Harrison Act, however, was a revenue-producing act and, while it provided penalties for violation, it did not give the states themselves authority to exercise police power in regard to seizure of drugs used in illicit trade, or in regard to punishment of those responsible. The act was recommended to the states for that purpose. As a result of the Uniform State Narcotic Act, the Federal Bureau of Narcotics encouraged state governments to adopt the act. By the middle of the 1930s all member states had some regulation of cannabis.\n\nThe use of cannabis and other drugs came under increasing scrutiny after the formation of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics (FBN) in 1930, headed by Harry J. Anslinger as part of the government's broader push to outlaw all recreational drugs.\n\nAnslinger claimed cannabis caused people to commit violent crimes and act irrationally and overly sexual. The FBN produced propaganda films promoting Anslinger's views and Anslinger often commented to the press regarding his views on marijuana.\n\nIn 1936 the Convention for the Suppression of the Illicit Traffic in Dangerous Drugs (1936 Trafficking Convention) was concluded in Geneva. The U.S., led by Anslinger, had attempted to include the criminalization of all activities in the treaty – cultivation, production, manufacture and distribution – related to the use of opium, coca (and its derivatives), and cannabis, for non-medical and non-scientific purposes. Many countries opposed this and the focus remained on illicit trafficking. Article 2 of the Convention called upon signatory countries to use their national criminal law systems to \"severely\" punish, \"particularly by imprisonment or other penalties of deprivation of liberty\", acts directly related to drug trafficking. The U.S. refused to sign the final version because it considered the convention too weak, especially in relation to extradition, extraterritoriality and the confiscation of trafficking profits.\n\nThe Marihuana Tax Act of 1937 effectively made possession or transfer of marihuana illegal throughout the United States under federal law, excluding medical and industrial uses, through imposition of an excise tax on all sales of hemp. Annual fees were $24 ($637 adjusted for inflation) for importers, manufacturers, and cultivators of cannabis, $1 ($24 adjusted for inflation) for medical and research purposes, and $3 ($82 adjusted for inflation) for industrial users. Detailed sales logs were required to record marihuana sales. Selling marihuana to any person who had previously paid the annual fee incurred a tax of $1 per ounce or fraction thereof; however, the tax was $100 ($2,206 adjusted for inflation) per ounce or fraction thereof to sell any person who had not registered and paid the annual fee.\nThe American Medical Association (AMA) opposed the act because the tax was imposed on physicians prescribing cannabis, retail pharmacists selling cannabis, and medical cannabis cultivation and manufacturing; instead of enacting the Marihuana Tax Act the AMA proposed cannabis be added to the Harrison Narcotics Tax Act. This approach was unappealing to some legislators who feared that adding a new substance to the Harrison Act would subject that act to new legal scrutiny. Since the federal government had no authority under the 10th Amendment to regulate medicines, that power being reserved by individual states in 1937, a tax was the only viable way to legislate marijuana.\nAfter the Philippines fell to Japanese forces in 1942, the Department of Agriculture and the U.S. Army urged farmers to grow hemp fiber and tax stamps for cultivation were issued to farmers. Without any change in the Marihuana Tax Act, over 400,000 acres of hemp were cultivated between 1942 and 1945. The last commercial hemp fields were planted in Wisconsin in 1957. New York Mayor Fiorello LaGuardia, who was a strong opponent of the 1937 Marihuana Tax Act, started the LaGuardia Commission that in 1944 contradicted the earlier reports of addiction, madness, and overt sexuality.\n\nThe decision of the United States Congress to pass the Marihuana Tax Act of 1937 was based on poorly attended hearings and reports based on questionable studies. In 1936 the Federal Bureau of Narcotics (FBN) noticed an increase of reports of people smoking marijuana, which further increased in 1937. The Bureau drafted a legislative plan for Congress seeking a new law, and the head of the FBN, Harry J. Anslinger, ran a campaign against marijuana. Newspaper mogul William Randolph Hearst's empire of newspapers used the \"yellow journalism\" pioneered by Hearst to demonize the cannabis plant and spread a public perception that there were connections between cannabis and violent crime. Several scholars argue that the goal was to destroy the hemp industry, largely as an effort of Hearst, Andrew Mellon and the Du Pont family. They argue that with the invention of the decorticator hemp became a very cheap substitute for the wood pulp that was used in the newspaper industry. However, Hearst newspapers owed large debts to Canadian suppliers of paper, who used wood as raw material. If an alternative raw material for paper had emerged, it would have lowered the price of the paper needed to print Hearst's many newspapers—a positive thing for Hearst. Moreover, by the year 1916 there were at least five \"machine brakes\" for hemp and it is unlikely that in 1930s hemp became a new threat for newspapers owners.\n\nMellon was Secretary of the Treasury, as well as the wealthiest man in America, and had invested heavily in nylon, DuPont's new synthetic fiber. He considered nylon's success to depend on it replacing the traditional resource, hemp.\n\nThe company DuPont and many industrial historians dispute a link between nylon and hemp. They argue that the reason for developing nylon was to produce a fiber that could compete with silk and rayon in, for example, thin stockings for women. Silk was much more expensive than hemp and imported largely from Japan. There was more money in a substitute for silk. DuPont focused early on thin stockings for women. As a commercial product, nylon was a revolution in textiles. Strong and water-resistant, it was possible to make very thin fibers from cheap raw materials. The first sales in 1938 in New York of nylon stockings created a line with 4000 middle class women. For years to come, nylon demand was greater than DuPont could produce. And the DuPont Group was very big; it could move on if nylon had not become a success.\n\nIn 1916, United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) chief scientists Jason L. Merrill and Lyster H. Dewey created a paper, USDA Bulletin No. 404 \"Hemp Hurds as Paper-Making Material\", in which they stated that paper from the woody inner portion of the hemp stem broken into pieces, so called hemp hurds, was \"favorable in comparison with those used with pulp wood\". Merrill and Dewey's findings were not repeated in a later book by Dewey and have not been confirmed by paper production experts. The consistency of long fibers is too low in hemp hurds for commercial papermaking. Numerous machines had been devised for breaking and scutching hemp fibers, but none had been found to be fully satisfactory in actual commercial work. To produce fiber from hemp was a labor-intensive process if harvest, transport and processing are included. Technological developments decreased the labor but not sufficiently to eliminate this disadvantage.\n\nThere was also a misconception about the intoxicating effects of hemp because it has the same active substance, THC, which is in all cannabis strains. Hemp normally has a minimal amount of THC when compared to recreational cannabis strains but, in the 1930s, THC was not yet fully identified. The methods FBN used for predicting the psychoactive effect of different samples of cannabis and hemp therefore gave confusing results.\n\nMandatory sentencing and increased punishment were enacted when the United States Congress passed the Boggs Act of 1952 and the Narcotics Control Act of 1956. The acts made a first-time cannabis possession offense a minimum of two to ten years with a fine up to $20,000; however, in 1970 the US Congress repealed mandatory penalties for cannabis offenses.\n\nIn its 1969 \"Leary v. United States\" decision the Supreme Court held the Marijuana Tax Act to be unconstitutional, since it violated the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination. In response, Congress passed the Controlled Substances Act as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970, which repealed the Marijuana Tax Act. Although the new law did officially prohibit the use of cannabis for any purpose (medical included), it also separated cannabis from other illicit narcotics and removed mandatory sentences for possessing small amounts of the drug.\n\nCannabis was assigned a Schedule I classification under the CSA, deemed to have a high potential for abuse and no accepted medical use – thereby prohibiting even medical use of the drug. The classification has remained since the CSA was first signed into law, despite multiple efforts to reschedule. Other drugs in the Schedule I category include heroin, LSD, and peyote.\n\nIn 1968 the United States Department of the Treasury subsidiary the Bureau of Narcotics, and the United States Department of Health, Education, and Welfare subsidiary the Bureau of Drug Abuse Control, merged to create the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs as a United States Department of Justice subsidiary.\n\nIn 1973 President Richard Nixon's \"Reorganization Plan Number Two\" proposed the creation of a single federal agency to enforce federal drug laws and Congress accepted the proposal, as there was concern regarding the growing availability of drugs. As a result, on July 1, 1973, the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs (BNDD) and the Office of Drug Abuse Law Enforcement (ODALE) merged to create the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA). On December 1, 1975, the Supreme Court ruled that it was \"not cruel or unusual for Ohio to sentence someone to 20 years for having or selling cannabis\".\n\nIn January 1976, California's study of the economic impact of its law repealing prohibitions of use went into effect. The law reduced the penalty for personal possession of an ounce or less of marijuana from a felony to a citable misdemeanor with a maximum fine of $100. Possession of more than an ounce was made a misdemeanor, making the maximum fine $500 and/or six months in jail. After the law went into effect, the state's annual spending towards marijuana laws went down 74%. Prior to the law, the state had been spending from $35 million to $100 million.\n\nDuring the Reagan Administration the Sentencing Reform Act provisions of the Comprehensive Crime Control Act of 1984 created the Sentencing Commission, which established mandatory sentencing guidelines. The Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1986 reinstated mandatory prison sentences, including large scale cannabis distribution. Later an amendment created a three-strikes law, which created mandatory 25-years imprisonment for repeated serious crimes – including certain drug offenses – and allowed the death penalty to be used against \"drug kingpins\".\n\nThe Solomon–Lautenberg amendment is a federal law enacted in 1990 that urged states to suspend the driver's license of anyone who commits a drug offense. A number of states passed laws in the early 1990s seeking to comply with the amendment, in order to avoid a penalty of reduced federal highway funds. These laws imposed mandatory driver's license suspensions of at least six months for persons committing a drug offense (including simple possession of cannabis), regardless of whether any motor vehicle was involved. Although the amendment does contain a provision for states to opt out (without penalty), as of 2018 seven states still have so-called \"Smoke a joint, lose your license\" laws in effect.\n\nBy the fall of 1998, California voters had approved Proposition 215 to legalize medical cannabis, and similar measures were up for vote in several more states. In response to these developments, House Joint Resolution 117 was passed by the U.S. House of Representatives on September 15, 1998, to declare support for \"the existing Federal legal process for determining the safety and efficacy of drugs\" and oppose \"efforts to circumvent this process by legalizing marijuana ... for medicinal use without valid scientific evidence and [FDA] approval\". The measure passed by a 310 to 93 vote.\n\nFollowing the passage of Proposition 215, the Oakland Cannabis Buyers' Cooperative was created to \"provide seriously ill patients with a safe and reliable source of medical cannabis, information, and patient support\". In January 1998, the U.S. Government sued Oakland Cannabis Buyers' Cooperative for violating federal laws created as a result of Controlled Substances Act of 1970. On May 14, 2001, the United States Supreme Court ruled in \"United States v. Oakland Cannabis Buyers' Cooperative\" that federal anti-drug laws do not permit an exception for medical cannabis and rejected the common-law medical necessity defense to crimes enacted under the Controlled Substances Act because Congress concluded cannabis has \"no currently accepted medical use\" when the act was passed in 1970.\n\n\"Gonzales v. Raich\" 545 U.S. 1 (2005) was a decision in which the U.S. Supreme Court ruled (6–3) that even where individuals or businesses in accordance with state-approved medical cannabis programs are lawfully cultivating, possessing, or distributing medical cannabis, such persons or businesses are violating federal marijuana laws. Therefore, under federal law violators are prosecuted because the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution grants the federal government jurisdiction, pursuant to the U.S. Controlled Substances Act, to prosecute marijuana offenses.\n\nIn \"Gonzales\" the defendants argued that because the cannabis in question had been grown, transported, and consumed entirely within California and in compliance with California medical cannabis laws, their activity did not implicate interstate commerce, and as such could not be regulated by the federal government through the Commerce Clause.\n\nThe Supreme Court disagreed, reasoning that cannabis grown within California for medical purposes is indistinguishable from illicit marijuana and that because the intrastate medical cannabis market contributes to the interstate illicit marijuana market, the Commerce Clause applies. Even where California citizens are using medical cannabis in compliance with state law, those individuals and businesses can still be prosecuted by federal authorities for violating federal law.\n\nTo combat state-approved medical cannabis legislation, the Drug Enforcement Administration continued the routine targeting and arrests of medical cannabis patients and the seizure of medical cannabis and the business assets of growers and medical dispensaries. This was finally curtailed with the passage of the Rohrabacher–Farr amendment in 2014, although prosecutions initially continued until a pair of court rulings determined the DOJ was interpreting the amendment incorrectly.\n\nIn January 2018, Attorney General Jeff Sessions rescinded the Cole Memorandum, an Obama-era policy that generally discouraged U.S. Attorneys from enforcing federal law against state-legal cannabis enterprises. The impact that rescinding the memo would have on enforcement activities was not immediately made clear by Justice Department officials.\n\nIn 1975, a Washington D.C. resident named Robert Randall was arrested for cultivating cannabis. Randall, who had discovered that cannabis relieved the symptoms of his glaucoma, employed a medical necessity defense at trial to justify his use of the drug. The charges against Randall were dismissed, and as a result of an ensuing petition filed with the FDA, Randall became the first person to receive cannabis from the federal government in 1976. After his supply was cut off in 1978, he filed a lawsuit to have it restored, setting in motion the creation of the Compassionate Investigational New Drug program shortly thereafter. The program allowed patients with serious medical conditions to receive a regular supply of cannabis from the federal government; however, only 13 patients ended up participating due to the very complicated and drawn-out application process involved.\n\nThe Compassionate IND program was closed to new patients in 1992, due to a flood of new applications from AIDS patients and concerns that the program undercut Bush administration efforts to discourage illegal drug use. Twenty-eight applications that had recently been approved were rescinded, and only the 13 patients who were already receiving cannabis were allowed to do so moving forward. As of 2016, most of the original 13 patients had perished, but at least two were still known to be receiving cannabis from the federal government.\n\nDuring the late 1970s and into the early 80s, a number of states passed legislation addressing the medical use of cannabis. New Mexico was the first to do so in 1978, and by the end of 1982 over thirty states had followed suit. The majority of these laws sought to provide cannabis through federally-approved research programs administered by the states, using cannabis supplied by the National Institute on Drug Abuse. Only seven states ended up implementing the programs, however, due to the large bureaucratic and regulatory obstacles involved. Other states passed laws allowing doctors to prescribe cannabis, or reclassifying cannabis in a state's internal drug scheduling system. Additionally, a few states passed legislation affirming the right of individuals to present a medical necessity defense at trial. These laws were all largely ineffectual though, due to the continued prohibition of medical cannabis at the federal level. By the mid-80s, efforts to pass new medical cannabis laws had ground to a halt, and a number of existing laws were either repealed or allowed to expire.\n\nIn 1972, the National Organization for the Reform of Marijuana Laws petitioned the BNDD (which later became the DEA) to remove cannabis from the list of Schedule I drugs, in order to allow it to be prescribed by physicians. After a decade of legal battles in which the DEA refused to consider the petition, public hearings were finally held on the matter starting in 1986. In September 1988, after two years of extensive public hearings, DEA Chief Administrative Law Judge Francis L. Young ruled in favor of moving cannabis to a Schedule II classification, finding that \"Marijuana, in its natural form, is one of the safest therapeutically active substances known to man.\" Young further concluded: \"The evidence in this record clearly shows that marijuana has been accepted as capable of relieving the distress of great numbers of very ill people, and doing so with safety under medical supervision. It would be unreasonable, arbitrary and capricious for [the] DEA to continue to stand between those sufferers and the benefits of this substance in light of the evidence in this record.\" As Young's ruling was only a non-binding recommendation, however, it was rejected by DEA Administrator John Lawn in December 1989. The decision was upheld in 1994 by a U.S. Court of Appeals ruling.\n\nIn 1991, 79% of San Francisco voters approved Proposition P, a non-binding ballot measure expressing support for the medical use of cannabis. The city board of supervisors soon followed with Resolution 141-92, which urged law enforcement not to prosecute individuals using cannabis under a doctor's care (as proven by a letter from a treating physician). The resolution allowed the open distribution of cannabis to AIDS patients and others throughout the city, most notably through the San Francisco Cannabis Buyers Club which was operated by Dennis Peron. Similar clubs appeared outside San Francisco in the ensuing years as other cities passed legislation to support the medical use of cannabis. The Wo/Men's Alliance for Medical Marijuana was founded in 1993 after Santa Cruz voters approved Measure A in November 1992. And the Oakland Cannabis Buyers' Cooperative was founded in 1995 shortly before the city council passed multiple medical cannabis resolutions. These were the first cannabis dispensaries in the U.S., allowed to operate openly by city officials even though in violation of both state and federal law.\n\nIn California, following the success of Proposition P and other local initiatives, medical cannabis advocates turned attention towards reform efforts at the state level. A pair of medical cannabis bills was approved by state legislators in 1994 and 1995; however, both of these were vetoed by Governor Pete Wilson. Frustrated by these vetoes, medical cannabis advocates took the issue directly to the voters, collecting 775,000 signatures for qualification of a statewide ballot initiative in 1996.\n\nOn November 5, 1996, California voters approved Proposition 215 (Compassionate Use Act of 1996), making the state the first in the nation to legalize the medical use of cannabis. The measure, approved with 56% of the vote, allowed the use, possession, and cultivation of cannabis by patients with a physician's recommendation, for treatment of cancer, anorexia, AIDS, chronic pain, spasticity, glaucoma, arthritis, migraine, or \"any other illness for which marijuana provides relief\". The law also allowed patient caregivers to cultivate cannabis, and urged lawmakers to facilitate the \"safe and affordable distribution of marijuana\".\n\nThe passage of Proposition 215 was followed by the approval of five more medical cannabis ballot initiatives in 1998 (Washington, Oregon, Alaska, Nevada, and the District of Columbia). Maine followed in 1999, along with Nevada (for a second time) and Colorado in 2000. Also in 2000, Hawaii became the first state to legalize medical cannabis through an act of state legislature.\n\nWashington D.C. residents approved a medical cannabis initiative in 1998, but a series of amendments introduced by Rep. Bob Barr and approved by Congress prevented its implementation for over a decade. The initial Barr amendment was enacted prior to the November 1998 election but after ballots had been printed, thereby allowing D.C. residents to vote on the initiative but preventing the results from being made public. The amendment was challenged in court by the American Civil Liberties Union on grounds that it violated First Amendment rights, and in September 1999 U.S. District Court Judge Richard W. Roberts agreed, overturning the Barr amendment. Rep. Barr then introduced a similar amendment which became law in November 1999, setting off a long legal battle until finally in December 2009 the Barr amendment was removed from the annual D.C. appropriations bill, allowing the original 1998 ballot initiative to move forward. Rep. Barr, who left Congress in 2003, helped lobby for defeat of the legislation he originally authored, having reversed his earlier opposition to the medical use of cannabis.\n\nAfter Proposition 215 passed, the Clinton administration reiterated its firm opposition to the medical use of cannabis, and threatened to revoke the prescription-writing abilities of doctors who recommend or prescribe the drug. Additionally, threats were made by the administration to criminally prosecute physicians, and ban them from participating in Medicare and Medicaid. A group of physicians challenged this policy as a violation of First Amendment rights, and in September 2000 prevailed in the case \"Conant v. McCaffrey\", which affirmed the right of physicians to recommend (but not prescribe) cannabis. As a result, cannabis must be recommended instead of prescribed in all states where its medical use has been legalized.\n\nIn October 2009, the Ogden memo was issued by the Justice Department, advising U.S. attorneys to only prosecute medical cannabis providers who violate state law or engage in other federally-illegal activity (such as money laundering or illegal use of firearms). The memo did not have the effect that many expected, however, as raids on medical cannabis providers actually increased in frequency following its release. Prompted by public outcry and requests for clarification from numerous elected officials, a new memo was issued by Deputy Attorney General James M. Cole in June 2011. The 2011 Cole memo insisted that the 2009 Ogden memo was being adhered to, and that the Ogden memo's protections applied only to individual patients and not commercial operations. The crackdown on medical cannabis continued following the release of the 2011 memo, but was tempered somewhat by the issuance of a new Cole memo in 2013, which advised a more deferential approach towards the states (similar in nature to how the 2009 Ogden memo was widely interpreted).\n\nIn response to increased raids on medical cannabis providers, Congress passed the Rohrabacher–Farr amendment in 2014, to prohibit the Justice Department from prosecuting individuals acting in accordance with state law. The amendment passed the House by a 219–189 vote in May 2014, and was signed into law in December as part of an omnibus spending bill. It was renewed following a 242–186 House vote in 2015, and was subsequently included in a number of short-term spending bills in 2016 and 2017.\n\nAfter the amendment's 2014 enactment, the Justice Department initially continued to prosecute medical cannabis providers based on a new interpretation of the amendment that was being employed. U.S. District Judge Charles Breyer ruled against the DOJ in October 2015, however, stating that the interpretation \"defies language and logic\" and \"tortures the plain meaning of the statute\", and was \"counterintuitive and opportunistic\". The Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals similarly rejected the DOJ's arguments in an August 2016 ruling.\n\nFollowing the passage of the Controlled Substances Act in 1970, a commission was formed under decree of the act to study the rising use of cannabis in America, and subsequently make policy recommendations. Formally known as the National Commission on Marihuana and Drug Abuse, the Shafer Commission – led by former Pennsylvania governor Raymond P. Shafer – determined in its March 1972 report to the President and Congress that the societal harms caused by cannabis were limited, and recommended removal of criminal penalties for possession and distribution of small amounts of the drug. While President Nixon was furious with the commission and publicly rejected its findings, supporters of reform frequently cited the report's recommendations to build support for decriminalization in subsequent years.\n\nIn 1972, California became the first state to vote on a ballot measure attempting to legalize cannabis. Proposition 19 – the California Marijuana Initiative – sought to legalize the use, possession, and cultivation of cannabis, but did not allow for commercial sales. It was ultimately defeated by a wide margin (33–67%), but supporters were encouraged by the results, which provided momentum to other reform efforts in California in subsequent years.\n\nIn 1973 Oregon became the first state to decriminalize cannabis, reducing the penalty for possessing up to one ounce to a $100 fine. Five more states followed in 1975 – Alaska, Maine, Colorado, California, and Ohio. In subsequent years, decriminalization laws passed in Minnesota (1976), Mississippi (1977), New York (1977), North Carolina (1977), and Nebraska (1978). NORML was actively involved in helping to pass these laws, lobbying in support of legislation and paying for decriminalization proponents (including members of the Shafer Commission) to travel to various states to testify.\n\nSome cities also passed decriminalization laws in the 1970s, such as Ann Arbor in 1972 and Madison in 1977. Additionally, San Francisco voters approved a non-binding measure in 1978 to effectively legalize cannabis, but mayor George Moscone was assassinated shortly afterwards and the initiative was subsequently disregarded.\n\n\"Ravin v. State\" was a 1975 decision by the Alaska Supreme Court that held the Alaska Constitution's right to privacy protects an adult's ability to use and possess a small amount of cannabis in the home for personal use. The Alaska Supreme Court thereby became the first—and only—state or federal court to announce a constitutional privacy right that protects some level of cannabis use and possession. This policy of effective legalization remained in place until it was overridden by a 1990 ballot initiative that recriminalized cannabis.\n\nIn 2001, Nevada became the first state in over two decades to decriminalize cannabis. In the following years, major cities across the U.S. began to either decriminalize cannabis or make enforcement of cannabis laws the lowest priority. Among the first cities to do so were Seattle (2003), Oakland (2004), Denver (2005), and San Francisco (2006). In 2008, Massachusetts voters approved a ballot initiative to decriminalize cannabis. States that decriminalized in subsequent years were Connecticut (2011), Rhode Island (2012), Vermont (2013), Maryland (2014), Missouri (2014), Delaware (2015), Illinois (2016), and New Hampshire (2017). The U.S. Virgin Islands also decriminalized in 2014.\n\nOn November 6, 2012, Colorado and Washington became the first states to legalize recreational use of cannabis when voters approved Colorado Amendment 64 and Washington Initiative 502. Each regulated cannabis in a way similar to alcohol, allowing possession of up to an ounce for adults ages 21 and older, with DUID provisions similar to those against drunk driving. Unlike Initiative 502, Amendment 64 allowed for personal cultivation of up to six plants. Both allowed for commercial cultivation and sales, subject to regulation and taxes.\n\nAfter the first states legalized in 2012, the Justice Department issued the Cole Memorandum in August 2013, seeking to clarify how federal law would be enforced. The memo specified eight conditions which would merit enforcement of federal law, some of which included the distribution of cannabis to minors and the diversion of cannabis across state borders. Aside from these situations, the memo generally allowed for the commercial distribution of cannabis in states where such activity has been legalized. In January 2018, however, the Cole memo was rescinded by Attorney General Jeff Sessions, introducing uncertainty into how federal law would be enforced.\n\nIn November 2014, the states of Alaska (Measure 2) and Oregon (Ballot Measure 91) along with Washington D.C. (Initiative 71) legalized the recreational use of cannabis. These laws were similar in nature to those of Colorado and Washington, except the D.C. initiative did not contain an allowance for commercial sales. A rider attached to the 2014 \"Cromnibus\" bill further prevented D.C. council members from enacting legislation to allow for commercial sales.\n\nIn December 2014, the Justice Department announced a policy to allow recognized Indian tribes to legalize the use and sale of cannabis on their lands. The laws on reservations are allowed to be different from state and federal laws, and as with states that have legalized cannabis the federal government will not intervene as long as strict controls are maintained. Some domestic nations such as the Yakama Nation and the Oglala Sioux Tribal Council have rejected legalization on their reservations. In 2015, the Flandreau Santee Sioux Tribe (South Dakota) voted to legalize the recreational use of cannabis.\n\nIn November 2016, four more states legalized through ballot initiative – California, Nevada, Massachusetts, and Maine. This included the nation's most populous state (California), while Massachusetts and Maine became the first eastern states to legalize.\n\nIn January 2018, Vermont became the first state to legalize through an act of legislature, as opposed to ballot initiative with the previous eight states. Also differentiating Vermont's law is the fact that it does not allow for commercial sales, although a commission was set up to explore the possibility. The bill was signed into law by Republican governor Phil Scott.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48796263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48796263", "title": "List of sexual abuses perpetrated by groups", "text": "List of sexual abuses perpetrated by groups\n\nFollowing is a list of articles about notable sexual abuses perpetrated by groups, ordered by countries of occurrence:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "408743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=408743", "title": "Mark Cuban", "text": "Mark Cuban\n\nMark Cuban (born July 31, 1958) is an American businessman and investor. He is the owner of the National Basketball Association (NBA)'s Dallas Mavericks, co-owner of 2929 Entertainment and chairman of AXS TV. He is also one of the main \"shark\" investors on the ABC reality television series, \"Shark Tank\". In 2011, Cuban wrote an e-book, \"How to Win at the Sport of Business\", in which he chronicles his experiences in business and sports.\n\nCuban was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. His father, Norton Cuban, was an automobile upholsterer, while Cuban has described his mother, Shirley, as someone with \"a different job or different career goal every other week.\" He grew up in the suburb of Mount Lebanon, in a Jewish working-class family. His paternal grandfather changed the family name from \"Chabenisky\" to \"Cuban\" after his family emigrated from Russia through Ellis Island. His maternal grandparents, who were also Jewish, came from Romania. Cuban's first step into the business world occurred at age 12, when he sold garbage bags to pay for a pair of expensive basketball shoes. At age 16, Cuban took advantage of a \"Pittsburgh Post-Gazette\" strike by running newspapers from Cleveland to Pittsburgh.\n\nInstead of attending high school for his senior year, he enrolled as a full-time student at the University of Pittsburgh, where he joined the Pi Lambda Phi International fraternity. While attending the University of Pittsburgh, he held a variety of jobs, including a bartender, disco dancing instructor, and a party promoter. He is a \"beloved\" fan of Pittsburgh's NFL team, the Pittsburgh Steelers. After one year at the University of Pittsburgh, he transferred to Indiana University in Bloomington, Indiana, and graduated from the Kelley School of Business in 1981 with a Bachelor of Science degree in Management. He chose Indiana's Kelley School of Business without even visiting the campus because \"it had the least expensive tuition of all the business schools on the top 10 list\". During college he had various business ventures, including a bar, disco lessons, and a chain letter.\n\nIn 1982, Cuban moved to Dallas, Texas, where he first found work as a bartender, and then as a salesperson for Your Business Software, one of the earliest PC software retailers in Dallas. He was fired less than a year later, after meeting with a client to procure new business instead of opening the store.\n\nCuban started his own company, MicroSolutions, with support from his previous customers from Your Business Software. MicroSolutions was initially a system integrator and software reseller. The company was an early proponent of technologies such as Carbon Copy, Lotus Notes, and CompuServe. One of the company's largest clients was Perot Systems.\n\nIn 1990, Cuban sold MicroSolutions to CompuServe—then a subsidiary of H&R Block—for $6 million. He made approximately $2 million after taxes on the deal.\n\nIn 1995, Chris Jaeb and fellow Indiana University alumnus Todd Wagner started Audionet (which Cuban started to fund in 1998), combining their mutual interest in Indiana Hoosier college basketball and webcasting. With a single server and an ISDN line, Audionet became Broadcast.com in 1998. By 1999, Broadcast.com had grown to 330 employees and $13.5 million in revenue for the second quarter. In 1999, Broadcast.com helped launch the first live-streamed Victoria's Secret Fashion Show. That year, during the dot com boom, Broadcast.com was acquired by Yahoo! for $5.7 billion in Yahoo! stock.\n\nAfter the sale of Broadcast.com, Cuban diversified his wealth to avoid exposure to a market crash. The \"Guinness Book of Records\" credits Cuban with the \"largest single e-commerce transaction\", after he paid $40 million for his Gulfstream V jet in October 1999.\n\nCuban continues to work with Wagner in another venture, 2929 Entertainment, which provides vertically integrated production and distribution of films and video.\n\nOn September 24, 2003, the firm purchased Landmark Theatres, a chain of 58 arthouse movie theaters. The company is also responsible for the updated version of the TV show \"Star Search\", which was broadcast on CBS. 2929 Entertainment released \"Bubble\", a movie directed by Steven Soderbergh, in 2006.\n\nCuban was featured on the cover of the November 2003 premiere issue of \"Best\" magazine announcing the arrival of High Definition Television. Cuban also was co-founder (with Philip Garvin) of AXS TV (formerly HDNet), the first high-definition satellite television network.\n\nIn February 2004, Cuban announced that he would be working with ABC television to produce a reality television series, \"The Benefactor\". The premise of the six-episode series involved 16 contestants trying to win $1 million by participating in various contests, with their performances being judged by Cuban. It premiered on September 13, 2004, but due to poor ratings, the series was canceled before the full season aired.\n\nIn 2018, Cuban was No.190 on \"Forbes\" list of \"World's Richest People\", with a net worth of $3.9 billion.\n\nCuban financially supported Grokster in the Supreme Court case \"MGM v. Grokster\". He is also a partner in Synergy Sports Technology, a web based basketball scouting and video delivery tool, used by many NBA teams.\n\nCuban has also assisted ventures in the social software and distributed networking industries. He is an owner of IceRocket, a search engine that scours the blogosphere for content. Cuban was also a partner in RedSwoosh—a company which uses peer-to-peer technology to deliver rich media, including video and software, to a user's PC—later acquired by Akamai. He was also an investor in Weblogs, Inc. which was acquired by AOL.\n\nIn 2005, Cuban invested in Brondell Inc., a San Francisco startup making a high-tech toilet seat called a Swash that works like a bidet but mounts on a standard toilet. \"People tend to approach technology the same way, whether it's in front of them, or behind them,\" Cuban joked. He also invested in Goowy Media Inc., a San Diego internet software startup. In April 2006, Sirius Satellite Radio announced that Cuban would host his own weekly radio talk show, \"Mark Cuban's Radio Maverick\". However, the show has not materialized.\n\nIn July 2006, Cuban financed Sharesleuth.com, a website created by former \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\" investigative reporter Christopher Carey to uncover fraud and misinformation in publicly traded companies.\nExperimenting with a new business model for making online journalism financially viable, Cuban disclosed that he would take positions in the shares of companies mentioned in Sharesleuth.com in advance of publication. Business and legal analysts questioned the appropriateness of shorting a stock prior to making public pronouncements which are likely to result in losses in that stock's value. Cuban insisted that the practice is legal in view of full disclosure.\n\nIn April 2007, Cuban partnered with Mascot Books to publish his first children's book, \"Let's Go, Mavs!\". In November 2011, he wrote a 30,000-word e-book, \"How to Win at the Sport of Business: If I Can Do It, You Can Do It\", which he described as \"a way to get motivated\".\n\nIn October 2008, Cuban started Bailoutsleuth.com as a grassroots, online portal for oversight over the U.S. government's $700 billion \"bailout\" of financial institutions.\n\nIn September 2010, Cuban provided an undisclosed amount of venture capital to store-front analytics company Motionloft. According to the company's CEO Jon Mills, he cold-emailed Cuban on a whim with the business proposition and claimed Cuban quickly responded that he would like to hear more. Mills credited that sentence for launching the company. In November 2013, several investors questioned Cuban about Mills' representation of a pending acquisition of Motionloft. Cuban denied an acquisition was in place. Mills was terminated as CEO of Motionloft by stockholders on December 1, 2013, and in February 2014 was arrested by the FBI and charged with wire fraud, it being alleged that Mr. Mills misrepresented to investors that Motionloft was going to be acquired by Cisco. Cuban has gone on record to state that the technology, that at least in part is meant to serve the commercial real estate industry, is \"game changing\" for tenants.\n\nCuban has been a \"shark\" investor on the ABC reality program \"Shark Tank\" since season two in 2011.\n\nAs of May 2015, he has invested in 85 deals across 111 \"Shark Tank\" episodes, for a total of $19.9 million invested. The actual numbers vary because the investment happens after the handshake deal on live television, after the due diligence is performed to ensure the accuracy of the information presented in the pitch room. For instance, Hy-Conn, a manufacturer of easily removable fire hoses, after agreeing to a deal of $1.25 million for 100% of the company with Cuban, did not go through with the deal.\n\nCuban's top three deals, all with at least $1 million invested, are Ten Thirty One Productions, Rugged Maniac Obstacle Race, and BeatBox Beverages.\n\nSince Cuban joined the show in 2011, the ratings for \"Shark Tank\" have increased, and also during his tenure, the show has won three Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Structured Reality Program (from 2014 - 2016). As of 2018, Cuban was the second richest of all Sharks to appear on the show, at 3.7 billion, after Richard Branson, at 5.1 billion.\n\nCuban owns film distributor Magnolia Pictures. Through Magnolia, he financed \"Redacted\", a fictional dramatization based on the 2006 Mahmudiyah killings, written and directed by Brian De Palma. In September 2007, Cuban, in his capacity as owner of Magnolia Pictures, removed disturbing photographs from the concluding moments of the \"Redacted\", citing copyrights/permissions issues.\n\nAlso in 2007, Cuban was reportedly interested in distributing through Magnolia an edition of the film \"Loose Change\", which posits a 9/11 conspiracy theory, with Charlie Sheen narrating. Cuban told the \"New York Post\", \"We are having discussions about distributing the existing video with Charlie's involvement as a narrator, not in making a new feature. We are also looking for productions with an opposing viewpoint. We like controversial subjects, but we are agnostic to which side the controversy comes from.\"\n\nIn April 2011, Cuban put Magnolia Pictures and Landmark Theatres up for sale, but said, \"If we don't get the price and premium we want, we are happy to continue to make money from the properties.\"\n\nOn November 17, 2008, it was reported that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) filed a civil suit against Cuban relating to alleged insider trading in the shares of Mamma.com, now known as Copernic. A stock dilution occurred shortly after a trade in June 2004, giving hints of inside knowledge at the time of the trade, and Cuban allegedly was saved from a loss of $750,000. The SEC claimed that Cuban ordered the sale of his holdings in Mamma.com after he had been confidentially approached by the company to participate in a transaction likely to dilute shares of current shareholders. Cuban disputed the charges, saying he had not agreed to keep the information secret. On his blog, Cuban contended the facts were false and that the investigation was \"a product of gross abuse of prosecutorial discretion\". \"DealBook\", a section of \"The New York Times\", reported through an anonymous source that Cuban believed the investigation was motivated by an SEC employee having taken offense to his interest in possibly distributing the film \"Loose Change\".\n\nIn July 2009, the U.S. District Court dismissed the charges against Cuban, and the SEC appealed. In September 2010, an appeals court said that the district court had erred and that further proceedings would be necessary to address the merits of the suit.\n\nA federal jury in Texas found in favor of Cuban on October 16, 2013. The nine-member jury issued the verdict after deliberating 3 hours and 35 minutes.\n\nIn March 2014, Cuban was on air at CNBC criticizing high-frequency trading (HFT). Those against HFT, such as Cuban, believe the technology is equivalent to automated insider trading.\n\nOn January 4, 2000, Cuban purchased a majority stake in the NBA's Dallas Mavericks for $285 million from H. Ross Perot, Jr.\n\nIn the 20 years before Cuban bought the team, the Mavericks won only 40% of their games, and a playoff record of 21–32. In the 10 years following, the team won 69 percent of their regular season games and reached the playoffs in each of those seasons except for one. The Mavericks' playoff record with Cuban is 49 wins and 57 losses, including their first trip to the NBA Finals in 2006, where they lost to the Miami Heat.\n\nOn June 12, 2011, the Mavericks defeated the Heat to win the NBA Finals. Historically, NBA team owners publicly play more passive roles and watch basketball games from skyboxes; Cuban sits alongside fans while donning team jerseys. Cuban travels in his private airplane—a Gulfstream V—to attend road games.\n\nIn May 2010, H. Ross Perot, Jr., who retained 5% ownership, filed a lawsuit against Cuban, alleging the franchise was insolvent or in imminent danger of insolvency. In June 2010, Cuban responded in a court filing maintaining Perot is wrongly seeking money to offset some $100 million in losses on the Victory Park real estate development. The lawsuit was dismissed in 2011, due in part to Cuban asserting proper management of the team due to its recent victory in the 2011 NBA Finals. In 2014, the 5th Circuit Court affirmed that decision on appeal. Following his initial defeat, Perot attempted to shut out Mavericks fans from use of the parking lots he controlled near the American Airlines Center.\n\nIn January 2018, Cuban announced the Mavericks would be accepting Bitcoin as payment for tickets in the following season.\n\nCuban's ownership has been the source of extensive media attention and controversy involving league policies.\n\nCuban has been fined by the NBA, mostly for critical statements about the league and referees, at least $1.665 million for 13 incidents. In a June 30, 2006 interview, Mavericks player Dirk Nowitzki said about Cuban:\n\nIn an interview with the Associated Press, Cuban said that he matches NBA fines with charitable donations of equal amounts. In a nationally publicized incident in 2002, he criticized the league's manager of officials, Ed T. Rush, saying that he \"wouldn't be able to manage a Dairy Queen.\" Dairy Queen management took offense to Cuban's comments and invited him to manage a Dairy Queen restaurant for a day. Cuban accepted the company's invitation and worked for a day at a Dairy Queen in Coppell, Texas, where fans lined up in the street to get a Blizzard from the owner of the Mavericks.\n\nDuring the 2005–06 NBA season, Cuban started a booing campaign when former Mavericks player Michael Finley returned to play against the Mavericks as a member of the San Antonio Spurs. In a playoff series between the Mavericks and Spurs, Cuban cursed Spurs forward Bruce Bowen and was fined $25,000 by the NBA for rushing onto the court and criticizing NBA officials. After the 2006 NBA Finals, Cuban was fined $250,000 by the NBA for repeated misconduct following the Mavericks' loss to the Miami Heat in Game Five of the 2006 NBA Finals.\n\nIn February 2007, Cuban publicly criticized NBA Finals MVP Dwyane Wade and declared that he would get fined if he made any comments about what he thought really happened in the 2006 NBA Finals.\n\nOn January 16, 2009, the league fined Cuban $25,000 for yelling at Denver Nuggets player J. R. Smith at the end of the first half on a Mavericks-at-Nuggets game played on January 13. Cuban was apparently incensed that Smith had thrown an elbow that barely missed Mavericks forward Antoine Wright. Cuban offered to match the fine with a donation to a charity of Smith's choosing. Cuban stated that if he doesn't hear from Smith, then he will donate the money to the NHL Players' Association Goals and Dreams Fund in the names of Todd Bertuzzi and Steve Moore. In May 2009, Cuban made a reference to the Denver Nuggets being \"thugs\" after a loss to the Nuggets in game 3 of the Western Conference Semifinals. The statement was geared towards the Nuggets and their fans. As he passed Kenyon Martin's mother, who was seated near Cuban as he left the arena, he pointed at her and said, \"that includes your son.\" This controversial comment revisited media attention on Cuban yet again. Cuban issued an apology the next day referencing the poor treatment of away fans in arenas around the league. The league issued a statement stating that they would not fine him.\n\nOn May 22, 2010, Cuban was fined $100,000 for comments he made during a television interview about trying to sign LeBron James.\n\nDespite his history, he was notably silent during the Mavericks' 2011 championship playoff run.\n\nDespite Cuban's history with David Stern, he believed the NBA Commissioner would leave a lasting legacy \"of a focus on growth and recognizing that the NBA is in the entertainment business and that it's a global product, not just a local product. Whatever platforms that took us to, he was ready to go. He wasn't protective at all. He was wide open. I think that was great.\"\n\nOn January 18, 2014, Cuban was once again fined $100,000 for confronting referees and using inappropriate language toward them. As with previous fines, Cuban confirmed that he would match the fine with a donation to charity, however, with the condition that he reaches two million followers on his Twitter account. Cuban also jokingly commented that he could not let Stern leave without a proper farewell.\n\nOn October 28, 2015, Cuban said the Los Angeles Clippers was still not a \"respectable franchise\" in regards to the botched deal between DeAndre Jordan and the Mavericks.\n\nOn February 21, 2018, Cuban was fined $600,000 by the NBA for stating that the Dallas Mavericks should \"tank for the rest of the season.\" Commissioner Adam Silver stated that the fine was \"for public statements detrimental to the NBA.\"\n\nCuban has repeatedly expressed interest in owning a Major League Baseball franchise and has unsuccessfully attempted to purchase at least three franchises. In 2008, he submitted an initial bid of $1.3 billion to buy the Chicago Cubs and was invited to participate in a second round of bidding along with several other potential ownership groups. Cuban was not selected to participate in the final bidding process in January 2009. In August 2010, Cuban actively bid to buy the Texas Rangers with Jeffrey L. Beck. Cuban stopped bids after 1 a.m., having placed bids totaling almost $600 million. He had outbid a competing ownership group led by ex-pitcher and Rangers executive Nolan Ryan, but lost the deal before the Rangers played the San Francisco Giants in the 2010 World Series.\n\nIn January 2012, Cuban placed an initial bid for the Los Angeles Dodgers, but was eliminated before the second round of bidding. Cuban felt that the value of the Dodgers' TV rights deal drove the price of the franchise too high. He had previously said that he would not be interested in buying the franchise at $1 billion, telling the \"Los Angeles Times\" in November 2011 \"I don't think the Dodgers franchise is worth twice what the Rangers are worth.\" However, as the bidding process drew near many speculated that the sale would surpass $1.5 billion, with Jon Heyman of CBS Sports reporting via Twitter that at least one bid in the $1–1.5 billion range was placed in the initial round of the bidding process. Ultimately, the Dodgers sold for $2.15 billion to Guggenheim Baseball Management.\n\nCuban also previously expressed interest in becoming a minority owner of the New York Mets after owner Fred Wilpon announced in 2011 that he was planning to sell up to a 25% stake in the team.\n\nCuban has wanted to purchase his hometown Pittsburgh Pirates, but was rebuffed by then owner Kevin McClatchy in 2005.\n\nIn 2005, Cuban expressed interest in buying the NHL's Pittsburgh Penguins. In 2006, Cuban joined an investment group along with Dan Marino, Kevin Millevoi, Andy Murstein, and Walnut Capital principals Gregg Perelman and Todd Reidbord to attempt to acquire the Penguins. The franchise ultimately rejected the group's bid when team owners Mario Lemieux and Ronald Burkle took the team off the market.\n\nAt WWE's Survivor Series in 2003, Cuban was involved in a staged altercation with \"Raw\" General Manager Eric Bischoff and \"Raw\" wrestler Randy Orton. On December 7, 2009, Cuban acted as the guest host of \"Raw\", getting revenge on Orton when he was the guest referee in Orton's match against Kofi Kingston, giving Kingston a fast count victory. He then announced that Orton would face Kingston at . At the end of the show, Cuban was slammed through a table by the number one contender for the WWE Championship, Sheamus.\n\nOn September 12, 2007, Cuban said that he was in talks with WWE Chairman Vince McMahon to create a mixed martial arts company that would compete with UFC. He is now a bondholder of Zuffa, UFC's parent company.\n\nCuban followed up his intentions by organizing \"HDNet Fights\", a mixed martial arts promotion which airs exclusively on HDNet and premiered on October 13, 2007 with a card headlined by a fight between Erik Paulson and Jeff Ford as well as fights featuring veterans Drew Fickett and Justin Eilers.\n\nSince 2009, Cuban has been a panelist at the annual MIT Sloan Sports Analytics Conference.\n\nIn April 2010, Cuban loaned the newly formed United Football League (UFL) $5 million. He did not own a franchise, and he was not involved in day-to-day operations of the league nor of any of its teams. In January 2011, he filed a federal lawsuit against the UFL for their failure to repay the loan by the October 6, 2010 deadline.\n\nIn February 2016, Cuban purchased a principal ownership stake in the Professional Futsal League.\n\nCuban is an admirer of author and philosopher Ayn Rand. About Rand's novel \"The Fountainhead\", he said, \"[It] was incredibly motivating to me. It encouraged me to think as an individual, take risks to reach my goals, and responsibility for my successes and failures. I loved it.\" His political views have leaned toward libertarianism. He held a position on the centrist Unity08 political organization's advisory council. While leaning towards libertarianism, Cuban posted an entry on his blog claiming paying more taxes to be the most patriotic thing someone can do.\n\nIn 2012, Cuban donated $7,000 to political campaigns, with $6,000 going to Republican Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah and $1,000 to Democratic California Congresswoman Zoe Lofgren.\n\nOn February 8, 2008, Cuban voiced his support for the draft Bloomberg movement attempting to convince New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg to run in the U.S. presidential election of 2008 on his blog. Cuban concluded a post lamenting the current state of U.S. politics: \"Are you listening, Mayor Bloomberg? For less than the cost of opening a tent pole movie, you can change the status quo.\" He eventually voted for Barack Obama in the 2008 election.\n\nIn November 2012, in response to Donald Trump offering President Obama $5 million to a charity of President Obama's choosing if he released passport applications and college transcripts to the public, Cuban offered Trump $1 million to a charity of Trump's choosing if Trump shaved his head.\n\nOn December 19, 2012, Cuban donated $250,000 to the Electronic Frontier Foundation to support its work on patent reform. Part of his donation funded a new title for EFF's staff attorney Julie Samuels: The Mark Cuban Chair to Eliminate Stupid Patents.\n\nAt the Code/Media conference in February 2015, Cuban said of net neutrality that \"having [the FCC] overseeing the Internet scares the shit out of me\".\n\nCuban formally endorsed Hillary Clinton for President at a July 30, 2016 rally in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. During that campaign stop, Cuban said of Republican nominee Donald Trump, \"You know what we call a person like that in Pittsburgh? A jagoff [...] Is there any bigger jagoff in the world than Donald Trump?\"\n\nOn November 22, 2016 Cuban met with the then President-elect Trump's key advisor Steve Bannon, according to reports.\n\nCuban started the Fallen Patriot Fund to help families of U.S. military personnel killed or injured during the Iraq War, personally matching the first $1 million in contributions with funds from the Mark Cuban Foundation, which is run by his brother Brian Cuban.\n\nIn September 2015, Cuban stated in an interview that running for president was \"a fun idea to toss around\", and that, if he were running in the 2016 U.S. presidential election, he \"could beat both Trump and Clinton\". This was interpreted by many media outlets as indication that Cuban was considering running, but he clarified soon afterward that he had no intention to do so.\n\nIn October 2015, Cuban posted on Twitter, \"Maybe I'll run for Speaker of the House.\" At the time, there was no clear front-runner to replace the outgoing John Boehner; the Speaker of the House does not have to be a member of Congress.\n\nCuban told \"Meet the Press\" in May 2016 that he would be open to being Clinton's running mate in the election, though he would seek to alter some of her positions in order to do so. In the same interview, the self-described \"fiercely independent\" Cuban also said that he would consider running as Republican nominee Trump's running mate after having a meeting with Trump about understanding the issues, Trump's positions on them, and coming up with solutions. Cuban also described Trump as \"that friend that you just shake your head at. He's that guy who'd get drunk and fall over all the time, or just says dumb shit all the time, but he's your friend.\" On July 21, 2016, Cuban appeared on a live segment on \"The Late Show with Stephen Colbert\" entitled \"Gloves Off: Mark Cuban Edition\" in which he mocked Trump, including referencing the Trump companies' multiple bankruptcies and the failed Trump University program, and questioning the size of Trump's actual net worth.\n\nIn a September 2016, interview with NPR's Scott Simon, Cuban effectively positioned himself to support Clinton. He posited that the best strategy to beat Trump was to attack his insecurities, especially that of his intellect. He also added that Trump is the least qualified to be president and is not informed about policies.\n\nLater in September 2016, during a post-presidential debate interview, Cuban criticized Trump's characterization that paying the minimum required taxes 'is smart' and criticized Trump for not paying back into the system that allowed him to amass such wealth.\n\nIn October 2017, Cuban said that he would \"definitely\" run for President if he were single.\n\nLater in the same month, Cuban claimed that if he ran for president in 2020, it would be as a Republican, and described himself as \"socially a centrist...but very fiscally conservative.\" But it was also speculated that he could challenge president Donald Trump in 2020 as a Democrat.\n\nCuban has two brothers, Brian and Jeff Cuban.\n\nIn September 2002, Cuban married Tiffany Stewart in a private ceremony in Barbados. They have two daughters born in 2003, a daughter born in 2006, and a son born in 2010. They live in a mansion in the Preston Hollow area of Dallas, Texas.\n\nIn 2003, Cuban founded the Fallen Patriot Fund to help families of U.S. military personnel killed or injured during the Iraq War.\n\nIn June 2015 Cuban made a $5 million donation to Indiana University at Bloomington for the \"Mark Cuban Center for Sports Media and Technology,\" which will be built inside Assembly Hall, the school's basketball arena.\n\nIn a March 6, 2018 article, \"Willamette Week\" reported an alleged April 2011 incident between Cuban and a female patron of a Portland, Oregon bar called the Barrel Room. The woman told Portland police that Cuban sexually groped her while she posed for pictures with him. She submitted seven photographs, two of which Portland Police Detective Brendan McGuire referred to as \"significant.\" The case was referred to the Portland District Attorney's office, which declined to prosecute, saying there was no evidence to support the claim and that there was evidence to contradict it. Cuban denies the sexual assault allegation. The NBA announced on March 8, 2018 that they were reviewing the matter.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47078194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47078194", "title": "Meninism", "text": "Meninism\n\nMeninism is term used which has been used to describe various groups, including the men's rights movement, and male feminists. The term is sometimes used sincerely to challenge social issues facing men, and sometimes satirically or semi-satirically as a word-play on feminism. Members of these groups are known as meninists.\n\nThe term meninism was used in the early 2000s to describe male feminists who opposed sexism and supported women's right for equality in society, politics and at work. By the next decade, the term was used on social media to make jokes which mocked and criticised radical feminism. In 2013 the BBC reported that the hashtag #MeninistTwitter was being used on Twitter, first to share jokes about feminism, but later to share more serious difficulties facing modern men. In 2015, Nolan Feeney of \"Time\" reported that those who used meninist hashtags \"generally fall in two camps: people who use the term to call out ways they believe they’ve been victimised by feminism, and people who make fun of the first group for not understanding what feminism means in the first place\". Antifeminism is also associated with terms like Meninism\n\nThe term has partially evolved into a movement promoting awareness of the issues which the movement perceives as affecting men, opposition to the perceived oppression men face in the 21st century, opposition to the way some perceive that men are victimised by modern-day feminism, and occasionally violence against men. Women also identify as meninists.\n\nAccording to Martin Daubney of \"The Telegraph\", some meninists have used the term to discuss serious issues affecting men, such as domestic violence against men; fathers' rights and divorce issues; and disproportionate male prison sentences, suicide rates, and rates of homelessness. According to Radhika Sanghani of \"The Telegraph\", the hashtag is most commonly used on Twitter to mock feminism, but has also been used as a way to draw attention to men's issues, similar to \"The Red Pill\" forum on Reddit. Sanghani says that the movement's reaction to feminism is based more on the label than feminism's views. Abigail James writing for \"Catholic Online\" said that while meninism raises legitimate issues which should be taken seriously, its heart is based on a misinterpretation of the meaning of feminism. Antifeminism is also associated with the Meninist movement.\n\nMintified, an India-based media website, started the #BlameOneNotAll hashtag to discourage generalisations of men. According to Victoria Richards of \"The Independent\", the campaign was part of the meninist movement. The campaign received backlash for shifting focus away from the victims of rape and implying that basic decency should be rewarded. In an opinion piece for \"The Economic Times\" Shephali Bhatt criticised the use of the movement and International Men's Day to sell deodorant, saying \"...for an initiative to become a social phenomena, it needs to be rooted in truth. And the truth is that [men are] a sufficiently privileged gender, comparatively.\"\n\nThe hashtags have also been used for T-shirts and similar, with self-portraits of people wearing the clothes widely shared on social media. Several outlets reported that the clothes and images were widely mocked, and often Photoshopped sarcastically.\n"}
{"id": "57880213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57880213", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Togo)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Togo)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice and Human Rights of Togo oversees institutions and bodies such as the following: \n\n\nThe following responsibilities are assigned to the Minister of Justice and Human Rights: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10420913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10420913", "title": "Ministry of Law and Justice (India)", "text": "Ministry of Law and Justice (India)\n\nThe Ministry of Law and Justice in the Government of India is a cabinet ministry which deals with the management of the legal affairs, legislative activities and administration of justice in India through its three departments namely the \"Legislative Department\" and the \"Department of Legal Affairs\" and \"Department of Justice\" respectively. The Department of Legal Affairs is concerned with advising the various Ministries of the Central Government while the Legislative Department is concerned with drafting of principal legislation for the Central Government. The ministry is headed by a cabinet rank minister appointed by the President of India on the recommendation of the Prime Minister of India. The first Law and Justice minister of independent India was B. R. Ambedkar, who served in Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru's cabinet during 1947–52. Ravi Shankar Prasad is the current minister for law and justice in India.\n\nMinistry of law and justice is the oldest limb of the government of India dating back to 1833 when the Charter Act 1833 was enacted by the British Parliament when India was under British control. The said Act vested for the first time legislative power in a single authority, namely the Governor General in Council. By virtue of this authority and the authority vested under him under section 22 of the Indian Councils Act 1861 the Governor General in Council enacted laws for the country from 1834 to 1920. After the commencement of the Government of India Act 1919 the legislative power was exercised by the Indian Legislature constituted thereunder. The Government of India Act 1919 was followed by the Government of India Act 1935. With the passing of the Indian Independence Act 1947 India became a 'dominion' and the 'dominion legislature' made laws from 1947 to 1949 under the provisions of section 100 of the Government of India Act 1935 as adapted by the India (Provisional Constitution) Order 1947. When the Constitution of India came into force on 26 January 1950, the legislative power thereafter got vested in the Indian parliament.\n\nThe Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules of 1961 entail the various departments working under the Ministry of Law and Justice of Government of India. In terms of these Rules, the Ministry comprises the following departments:\n\nThe Legislative Department is mainly concerned with drafting of all principal legislation for the Central Government i.e. Bills to be introduced in Parliament, Ordinances to be promulgated by the President, measures to be enacted as President's Acts for States under the President's rule and Regulations to be made by the President for Union territories. It is also concerned with election Laws namely the Representation of the People Act 1950 and the Representation of the People Act 1951. In addition it is also entrusted with task of dealing with certain matters relating to List III of the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution like personal law, contracts evidence etc. The responsibility of maintaining up to date the statutes enacted by Parliament is also with this Department. The Allocation of Business Rules identify the following functions to be carried out by this Department; \n\n\nThe Department of Justice performs the administrative functions in relation to the appointment of various judges at various courts in India, maintenance and revision of the conditions and rules of service of the judges and other related areas. The Allocation of Business Rules identify the following functions to be carried out by this Department; \n\n\nnew act The Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) is a part of the Department of Revenue in the Ministry of Finance, Government of India.[24] The CBDT provides essential inputs for policy and planning of direct taxes in India and is also responsible for administration of the direct tax laws through Income Tax Department. The CBDT is a statutory authority functioning under the Central Board of Revenue Act, 1963.It is India's official FATF unit.The Central Board of Revenue as the Department apex body charged with the administration of taxes came into existence as a result of the Central Board of Revenue Act, 1924. Initially the Board was in charge of both direct and indirect taxes. However, when the administration of taxes became too unwieldy for one Board to handle, the Board was split up into two, namely the Central Board of Direct Taxes and Central Board of Excise and Customs with effect from 1.1.1964. This bifurcation was brought about by constitution of the two Boards u/s 3 of the Central Boards of Revenue Act, 1963.\n\n"}
{"id": "1462095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1462095", "title": "National Judicial Exam", "text": "National Judicial Exam\n\nThe National Judicial Examination or State Judicial Examination () is a unified legal examination administered by the People's Republic of China for people who work in the legal industry. This Examination is widely acknowledged as arguably the most difficult Examination in China and perhaps in the world (\"天下第一考\"). Unlike Judicial Examinations of most other countries in the world, candidates sit the Examinations of 17 subjects all at the same time. Thus, it requires a very high memory power and equally high ability of making swift analysis for difficult cases (each question is actually a case). \n\nSince 2002, all new members of the judiciary and legal profession will need to pass it. The SJE will push education programs for lawyers and judges to adopt more unified curricula and standards. It is also expected to increase the professionalism of the judiciary, which has been regarded as lacking.\n\nIn the past, there were different kinds of legal professional exams that were administered by different institutions: some by the courts for judges only, some by the procuratorates for prosecutors only, and the Lawyers Qualifications Exam (LQE) administered by the Ministry of Justice for those who wanted to become practicing lawyers. The exams for judges and prosecutors were internal, not open to the public. \n\nUnder amendments to the \"Judges Law\", \"Prosecutors Law\" and the \"Lawyers Law\" in 2001, all participants of the SJE must have a university-level education, although not necessarily in law. The only exception was the 2002 SJE, where over 50% of participants only had a college-level law diploma. These people were allowed to sit the exam with special permission from the Ministry of Justice. Another requirement is that the person must have a record of good behaviour. Those caught cheating will be issued a ban for either two years or for life.\n\nOn March 30-31, 2002, China held the first SJE. Of the 360,000 participants, about one-third were staff members of the courts, procuratorates, police departments, and other workers in the field of law and justice. Only 7% of the participants passed the exam, but this result was considered reasonable in comparison with rates in judicial exams in Japan.\n\nThe number of participants decreased significantly in 2003 to 197,000 people, due to stricter education requirements. Nearly 89% of candidates received at least four years of university education, while 74% majored in law. The only exceptions are for remote counties lacking in advanced education facilities. \n\nIn 2004, residents of Hong Kong and Macau were permitted to sit for the exam for the first time. More than 400 in Hong Kong have applied.\n\nThe SJE is a closed book exam mainly designed to test the legal knowledge of the tested persons and their ability to join the legal profession. Questions are divided into four categories: \n\nCandidates are tested on their knowledge of legal theory, economic law, international law, international private law and international economic law as well as ethics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50595528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50595528", "title": "National Oversight and Whistleblowers Centre", "text": "National Oversight and Whistleblowers Centre\n\nNational Oversight and Whistleblowers Centre (NOW) or in is a Malaysian first national Non profit organisation dedicated to recognise the need to institute public-driven oversight initiatives and the role of whistleblower in the matured society.\n\nIt was co-founded in 2012 by Executive Director Rafizi Ramli and Director Akmal Nasir. NOW headquartered at Sungai Besi Kuala Lumpur.\n\nAct as an oversight body to monitor, assess and report independently of the performance, transparency and accountability of the governments (federal and state governments), parliamentary houses, major government agencies and major corporations with huge public interests\nAct independently and decisively to bring to the public's attention any issues or scandals with major repercussions to the public interests\nProtect the safety, rights and welfare of whistleblowers through the Whistleblowers Protection Fund which disburses grants to qualified whistleblowers to pay for legal fees and loss of income\nCultivate a conducive environment in the society that encourages whistleblowers to come forward without fear or fervour through policy advocacy, standard setting and campaign initiatives\nProvide training and consultancy to the public and organisations on the skills and accountability of whistleblowers with the aim to produce more responsible whistleblowers in the society\n\nNOW was accused by the Pertubuhan Minda dan Sosial Prihatin, Ramesh Rao for not having the Bank Negara permission to collect the Fund to Close the 1MDB\n\nPolice has investigated both NOW and Malaysian Islamic Economic Development Foundation (YAPEIM) following their report against each other.\n\n"}
{"id": "36875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36875", "title": "Non-judicial punishment", "text": "Non-judicial punishment\n\nNon-judicial punishment (or NJP) is any form of punishment that may be applied to individual military personnel, without a need for a court martial or similar proceedings.\n\nIn the United States Armed Forces, non-judicial punishment is a form of military justice authorized by Article 15 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice. NJP permits commanders to administratively discipline troops without a court-martial. Punishment can range from reprimand to reduction in rank, correctional custody, confinement on bread and water/diminished rations (aboard ships only), loss of pay, extra duty, and/or restrictions. The receipt of non-judicial punishment does not constitute a criminal conviction (it is equivalent to a civil action), but is often placed in the service record of the individual. The process for non-judicial punishment is governed by Part V of the Manual for Courts-Martial and by each service branch's regulations.\n\nNon-judicial punishment proceedings are known by different terms among the services. In the Army and the Air Force, non-judicial punishment is referred to as Article 15; in the Marine Corps it is called being \"NJP'd,\" being sent to \"Office Hours,\" or satirically amongst the junior ranks, \"Ninja Punched.\" The Navy and the Coast Guard call non-judicial punishment captain's mast or admiral's mast, depending on the rank of the commanding officer.\n\nPrior to imposition of NJP, the commander will notify the accused of the commander's intention to impose punishment, the nature of the misconduct alleged, supporting evidence, and a statement of the accused's rights under the UCMJ. All service members, except those embarked or attached to a vessel currently away from its homeport, have a right to refuse NJP and request a court-martial. If the accused does not accept the NJP, the NJP hearing is terminated and the commander must make the decision of whether to process the service member for court-martial. If the accused accepts NJP, he or she, plus a representative if desired, will attend the hearing conducted by the commander. The accused may present evidence and witnesses to the commander. The commander must consider any information offered during the hearing, and must be personally convinced that the service member committed misconduct before imposing punishment.\n\nMaximum penalties depend on the rank of the accused and that of the officer imposing punishment:\n\nIf the officer imposing punishment holds General Court Martial authority, or if the commanding officer is of the grade O-7 or greater\n\nBy Commanding Officers of the grades O-4 to O-6\n\nBy Commanding Officers of the grades O-1 to O-3\n\nBy Officers In Charge (OIC)\n\nThere are three types of non-judicial punishment commonly imposed.\n\nSummary Article 15: commanders (O-3 and below) and commissioned OIC may impose:\n\nCompany Grade (O-3 or below) commanders may impose the above plus:\n\nField Grade (O-4 to O-6) may impose:\n\nThe punishments listed above may be combined (with certain limitations listed in the Manual for Courts-Martial, Part 5, Section 5(d)). For example, extra duties, restriction and forfeiture of pay, and reduction in grade could be imposed.\n\nIf the member considers the punishment to be unjust or to be disproportionate to the misconduct committed, he or she may appeal the NJP to a higher authority. This is usually the next officer in the chain of command. Upon considering the appeal, the higher authority may set aside the NJP, decrease the severity of the punishment, or may deny the appeal. They may not increase the severity of the punishment.\n\nPersonnel are permitted to refuse NJP in favor of a court-martial; this might be done in cases where they do not feel their Commanding Officer will give them a fair hearing. But this option exposes them to a possible criminal court conviction. Navy and Marine Corps personnel assigned to or embarked aboard ship do not have the option of refusing NJP, nor can they appeal the decision of the officer imposing punishment; they may only appeal the severity of the punishment.\n\nIn naval tradition, mast is the traditional location of the non-judicial hearing under which a commanding officer studies and disposes of cases involving those in his command. \n\nIf the individual conducting the proceeding is either a captain, or a lower ranking officer (typically a commander or lieutenant commander) serving as commanding officer of a naval or coast guard vessel, an aviation squadron, or similar command afloat or ashore, then the proceeding is referred to as a captain's mast. \n\nIf an admiral is overseeing the mast, then the procedure is referred to as an admiral's mast or a flag mast.\n\nA captain's mast or admiral's mast is a procedure whereby the commanding officer must:\n\nA captain's mast is not:\n\nIn the United States Navy and United States Coast Guard, these proceedings take place under the authority of Article 15 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).\n\nThe term \"mast\" may also refer to when a captain or commanding officer makes him/herself available to hear concerns, complaints, or requests from the crew. Traditionally, on a naval vessel, the captain would stand at the main mast of that vessel when holding \"mast.\" The crew, who by custom did not speak with the captain, could speak to him directly at these times. It could also refer to the naval punishment of tying one to a mast and lashing them with a whip.\n\nIn modern times, a meritorious mast refers to the commanding officer taking this time to single out a member of the crew for praise and present written recognition of work well done.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "790139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=790139", "title": "Performance bond", "text": "Performance bond\n\nA performance bond, also known as a contract bond, is a surety bond issued by an insurance company or a bank to guarantee satisfactory completion of a project by a contractor. The term is also used to denote a collateral deposit of good faith money, intended to secure a futures contract, commonly known as margin.\n\nPerformance bonds have been around since 2,750 BC. The Romans developed laws of surety around 150 AD, the principles of which still exist.\n\nA job requiring a payment and performance bond will usually require a bid bond, to bid the job. When the job is awarded to the winning bid, a payment and performance bond will then be required as a security to the job completion. For example, a contractor may cause a performance bond to be issued in favour of a client for whom the contractor is constructing a building. If the contractor fails to construct the building according to the specifications laid out by the contract (most often due to the bankruptcy of the contractor), the client is guaranteed compensation for any monetary loss up to the amount of the performance bond.\n\nPerformance bonds are commonly used in the construction and development of real property, where an owner or investor may require the developer to assure that contractors or project managers procure such bonds in order to guarantee that the value of the work will not be lost in the case of an unfortunate event (such as insolvency of the contractor). In other cases, a performance bond may be requested to be issued in other large contracts besides civil construction projects. Another example of this use is in commodity contracts where the seller is asked to provide a Bond to reassure the buyer that if the commodity being sold is not in fact delivered (for whatever reason) the buyer will at least receive compensation for his lost costs.\n\nPerformance bonds are generally issued as part of a 'Performance and Payment Bond', where a payment bond guarantees that the contractor will pay the labour and material costs they are obliged to.\n\nSurety bond companies calculate the premium they charge for surety bonds based on three primary criteria: bond type, bond amount, and the applicant's risk. Once the bond type, amount, and applicant risk are adequately assessed, a surety bond underwriter is able to assign an appropriate surety bond price.\n\nSurety bond companies have actuarial information on the lifetime claims history for each bond type. Over time, surety bond underwriters are able to determine that some surety bonds are more risky than others. For example, a California Motor Vehicle Dealer bond has significantly more claims than a straightforward notary bond. If a given surety bond type has paid out a high percentage of claims, then the premium amount paid by applicants will be higher.\n\nSurety bond companies attempt to predict the risk that an applicant represents. Those who are perceived to be a higher risk will pay a higher surety bond premium. Since surety bond companies are providing a financial guarantee on the future work performance of those who are bonded, they must have a clear picture of the individual's history.\n\nIn the United States, under the Miller Act of 1932, all Construction Contracts issued by the Federal Government must be backed by performance and payment bonds. States have enacted what is referred to as \"Little Miller Act\" statutes requiring performance and payment bonds on State Funded projects as well.\n\nThere are over 25,000 types of Surety Bonds in the United States. Each bond has a designated bond amount. Surety bond companies will determine bond rate based on risk and then charge a surety bond premium in the range 1-15% of the bond amount.\n\n"}
{"id": "172881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=172881", "title": "Private copying levy", "text": "Private copying levy\n\nA private copying levy (also known as blank media tax or levy) is a government-mandated scheme in which a special tax or levy (additional to any general sales tax) is charged on purchases of recordable media. Such taxes are in place in various countries and the income is typically allocated to the developers of \"content\". (A distinction is sometimes made between \"tax\" and \"levy\" based on the recipient of the accumulated funds; taxes are received by a government, while levies are received by a private body, such as a copyright collective.)\n\nLevy system may operate in principle as a system of collectivisation, partially replacing a property approach of sale of individual units.\n\nSuch levies were first introduced in Germany in the 1960s. With the advent of the audio cassette, legislators were persuaded that cassette recorders would decimate sales of records as friend after friend would then make copies of only one purchased album. Levies today are assessed on recordable compact discs, a form of media that did not exist when levies were first conceived. Although the bulk of unrecorded compact discs are actually used in the computing industry, they are still \"taxed\" to provide a revenue stream to the recording industry.\n\nLevies are often considered a compensation for illegal file sharing. This is debatable, however: levies could be seen as not being an advance for fines, but rather, only intended to compensate for copies in the private sphere that are legally allowed in many jurisdictions. A notable exception in Europe is the UK, that does not allow private copies. But generally legislators allow private copies for two reasons: firstly, because otherwise the enforcement would be unfeasible for private reasons, and secondly because the administrative burden would be disproportional.\n\nOn 2015-07-09 the European Parliament approved a non-binding resolution (Reda Report) asking a review of the levy in the European Union, building on previous resolutions and studies.\n\nA difficulty that immediately arises is the practical impossibility of devising a mechanism for distributing the proceeds to copyright holders that is considered \"fair\" by all copyright holders and consumers. Implemented systems are typically restricted to music and may distribute the proceeds proportionally to a measurement of sales of CDs in music shops or amount of air-play on radio or the like. This ignores other distribution channels such as the Internet, and it disproportionally benefits popular artists and publishers of the related products. Fairer methods would arguably involve extensive sampling of purchasers to determine actual recording behaviour, or alternatively paying all musicians at a simple flat-rate (the preferred method will depend on one's political views).\n\nWhile the prime purpose of levy systems is to compensate authors, some part of the collected money is also used for general cultural funding purposes. In Germany this is even required by law. It acknowledges the purpose of cultural diversity - which is not necessarily identical to free market effects. This funding is usually executed by the same entities (collecting societies) that distribute the levy money to individual authors. One may question however whether these entities are properly qualified to make culture policy.\n\nLevy systems assume that all authors want to exploit their work for money. However this is not always true, especially on the internet. Many authors do not write to entertain, but to inform readers, listeners and viewers. Often their purpose is to reach the widest possible audience rather than make the maximum profit from the copyrighted work by itself. The discrepancy between reality and the assumption underlying a levy system is growing as \"web 2.0\" matures, with pervasive user-supplied content, from Wikipedia to YouTube.\n\nA further problem is to find a proper tariff base for levies. Conceivably the levy may be a percentage of storage media sales price (e.g. 3% in the US). The implication of such a scheme is however that the author gets ever less as technology proceeds and becomes less expensive. But a price based on units of information (bits, or megabits) is not fair either, as for instance a DVD can be used to store a film, a computer game, a large amount of documents, or measurement data. The cost of producing a certain amount of bits widely varies by type of information. Measurement data is even not copyrighted at all. Yet in today's world of converging technology, storage media can be used for a wide range of purposes.\n\nAn implementation question that arises is whether the tax applies to any type of copyrighted work or is restricted to a limited field such as music. If it is restricted then the issue arises of how to collect the tax on media which can also be used for other purposes. The options include:\n\n\nContrary Fairness arguments\n\nIt is theorized that such levy may be linked to a corresponding relaxation of copyright law, by permitting the recording of copyrighted works on media for which the tax has been paid. However, there is little evidence to support this theory. On the contrary, lobbyists representing publishers and copyright holders have increased pressures to implement more restrictive laws, even on countries that have implemented private copying levy. In 2007, it was reported that International Intellectual Property Alliance put 23 of the world's 30 most populous countries into Priority Watch List, even though the United States, which was not in the list, has laws that are more liberal than the laws from the countries within the list.\n\nEven when restricting levy system to devices that primarily play music, this itself creates loopholes that prevents collecting levies from cellphones, PDAs, and other all-in-one portable electronic devices. As a result, copyright holders will have to rely on even more laws to collect levy, and to increase rates of already levied product to recover perceived losses, which run against the political trends toward eliminating levy systems.\n\nExamples of countries operating such schemes:\n\nAustralia has a public levy on cassette tapes. The legislation establishing the levy was passed in 1989, challenged in the High Court of Australia in \"Australian Tape Manufacturers Association Ltd v Commonwealth\". The court found the tax legal even though it went to private sources because it served a public purpose.\n\nIn Belgium a fee is charged on both blank media and recording equipment which is passed on to \"Auvibel\", which is in charge of distributing the funds. As of 1 February 2010, these fees are applicable for the following:\n\n\nA blank media levy was introduced in Canada in 1997, by the addition of Part VIII, \"Private Copying\", to the Canadian Copyright Act. The power to set rates and to set the distribution allocation is vested in the Copyright Board of Canada. The Copyright Board has handed the task of collecting and distributing the funds to the Canadian Private Copying Collective, which is a non-profit private organization.\n\nIn Canada:\n\n\nCanada's current private copying levies are as follows: $0.29 per unit for CD-R, CD-RW, CD-R Audio, CD-RW Audio disks. The Pirate Party of Canada, or the PPCA, has called for the scrapping the levy, as there are plenty of non-piracy related uses for CDs and it is unjust to punish Canadians who don't use them for these purposes.\n\nFinland had a blank media levy 1984-2015. From 2015 on the funds come directly from the state budget.\n\nAs of beginning of 2012, the fees were (in Euros):\n\nThere was no levy fee on mobile phones, computers, memory cards, game consoles, USB flash drives and CDs/DVDs. VAT of 9% is added to the levies.\n\nThe world's first private copying system was created in Germany in 1965. It was a result of earlier successful litigation by GEMA against an audio equipment manufacturer in GEMA v. Grundig.\n\nLuxembourg is the only EU member state on the continent without a private copying levy, making it a popular \"copying levy haven\" for blank media buyers from countries such as France and Germany.\n\nIn the Netherlands a fee is charged on blank media which is passed on to \"Stichting Thuiskopie\" (Foundation Homecopy), which is in charge of distributing the funds. Fees for February 17, 2007 until January 1, 2010 are as follows;\n\nPortugal established a levy on cds and DVDs in 1998.\n\nArticle 1245 of Civil Code of Russian Federation \"Remuneration for free reproduction of phonograms and audiovisual products for private purposes\" (\"Вознаграждение за свободное воспроизведение фонограмм и аудиовизуальных произведений в личных целях\") mandates a fee, which is to be distributed in the following proportion: 40% to the authors, 30% to the singers, 30% to the manufacturers of the media. In practice, this fee had not been charged until after the Regulation of the Government of Russian Federation 829 from October 14, 2010, which mandated a uniform 1% tax on computers, blank optical disks, memory sticks, TVs, video and audio recorders, radios, mobile phones, etc. The controversial decision of the government to award the collected funds to the for further distribution was criticized by the public and disputed in a lawsuit.\n\nIn Sweden there is a fee called \"privatkopieringsersättning\" (private copy remuneration) earlier called \"kassettersättning\" (cassette tape remuneration) on compact cassettes, blank CDs, blank minidiscs and other storage media. As of September 1, 2011, this fee will also apply to external hard drives and other USB storage. The fee is 2.5 öre (0.025 SEK) per minute of storage for analog media or 0.4 öre per MB for re-recordable media or 0.25 öre per MB for write once media. The money collected (224436151 SEK as of 2005) is handled by Copyswede.\n\n\n, as legislated by the Audio Home Recording Act of 1992, says that non-commercial copying by consumers of digital and analog musical recordings is not copyright infringement. Non-commercial includes such things as resale not in the course of business, perhaps of normal use working copies which are no longer wanted. It is unlikely to include resale of copies in bulk; Napster tried to use the Section 1008 defense but was rejected because it was a business.\n\nFrom House Report No. 102-873(I), September 17, 1992: \"In the case of home taping, the [Section 1008] exemption protects all noncommercial copying by consumers of digital and analog musical recordings\" .\n\nFrom House Report No. 102-780(I), August 4, 1992: \"In short, the reported legislation [Section 1008] would clearly establish that consumers cannot be sued for making analog or digital audio copies for private noncommercial use\".\n\nThe United States music industry administers the Audio Home Recording Act and foreign hometaping royalties for artists on US sound recordings as well as US record labels. These royalties are administered by The Alliance of Artists and Recording Companies for featured artists and copyright owners, ASCAP/BMI/SESAC for writers, Harry Fox Agency for publishers, and The AFM/AFTRA Intellectual Property Rights Distribution Fund (Joint venture of AFM and AFTRA ) for non-featured artists. All societies also collect foreign remuneration for their respective funds.\n\n bars copyright infringement action and provides for a royalty of 2% of the initial transfer price for devices and 3% for media. The royalty rate in was established by the Fairness in Music Licensing Act of 1998. This only applies to CDs which are labeled and sold for music use; they do not apply to blank computer CDs, even though they can be (and often are) used to record or \"burn\" music from the computer to CD. The royalty also applies to stand-alone CD recorders, but not to CD burners used with computers. Most recently, portable satellite radio recording devices contribute to this royalty fund.\n\nThanks to a precedent established in a 1998 lawsuit involving the Rio PMP300 player, most MP3 players are deemed \"computer peripherals\" and are not subject to a royalty of this type in the U.S.\n\nCurrently, private copy royalties are generated in the US by the sale of \"blank CDs and personal audio devices, media centers, satellite radio devices, and car audio systems that have recording capabilities.\"\n\nCurrently there is no proper private copy exception in the United Kingdom, there is only a narrow exception regarding broadcast time-shifting (s70(1) of the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988 (CDPA)).\n\nOn 1 June 2014, the UK implemented art. 5(2)b of the Infosoc Directive via the Copyright and Rights in Performance (Personal Copies for Private Use) Regulations 2014. This provided an exception limited to the personal use, to the owners of a personal copy and with the exclusion of indirectly commercial uses. It did not provide for compensation. The UK Government's view was that \"levies or other compensation are neither required nor desirable in the context of a narrow provision that causes minimal harm. Levies are an unnecessary and inefficient tax on consumers. They are unfair to consumers in that they are payable regardless of the use to which a levied device (for example a hard disk) is put and regardless of whether a user has already paid for the copies they store on a device. Furthermore, particularly in the current economic climate, it is not right to extract more money from the pockets of hard pressed consumers.”. The British Academy of Songwriters, Composers and Authors (BASCA), the Musicians' Union, and UK Music challenged the introduction of these regulations, and brought an application for judicial review. Their application succeeded when, in June 2015, the High Court ruled that the regulations were unlawful because of a flawed impact assessment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32910584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32910584", "title": "Professional services networks", "text": "Professional services networks\n\nProfessional services networks are networks of independent firms who come together to cost-effectively provide services to clients through an organized framework. They are principally found in law and accounting. They may also be found in investment banking, insurance, real estate and architectural services. Any profession that operates locally, but has clients in multiple locations, are potential members of a network. This entry focuses on accounting, legal, multidisciplinary and specialty practice networks. Today members of these networks employ more than one million professionals and staff and have cumulative annual revenues that exceed $200 billion.\n\nThe accounting networks and associations developed first to meet the requirement of the SEC of public company audits. They include the well-known accounting networks like PwC, Deloitte, Ernst & Young and KPMG (also known as the Big 4 Audit Firms) as well as more than 30 other accounting networks and associations. They are highly structured entities.\n\nThe law firm network developed in the late 1980s. They include legal and law firm based multidisciplinary networks like Lex Mundi, World Services Group, IR Global (IR) TerraLex, Meritas, and the State Capital Group.\n\nThere are more than 175 known networks in law, 40 in accounting, and 20 specialty networks. Individual networks have revenues exceeding $20 billion.\n\nEvery network from accounting networks like PwC and KPMG to law firm networks like Lex Mundi, Multilaw, and multidisciplinary networks like World Services Group(WSG) uses a “network disclaimer.” A network disclaimer states that the network members are independent firms that do not practice jointly and are not responsible for the negligence of each other. It further states that generally the network does not practice a profession or otherwise provide services to clients of the network’s members. This independence is the foundation of both network operations and governance.\n\nOne of the major factors influencing the need for networks is the globalization of the economy. Supply and demand are no longer local but global. The price of commodities is affected by the weather halfway across the world or by demand in developing countries. Production takes place wherever the assets and human resources can most effectively deploy. Professional services providers must be able to reach out globally to represent their clients everywhere in the world. Networks are the practical and cost-effective method to accomplish these objectives. Members of networks have access to other members who understand the local economic, legal and political factors.\n\nFrom a theoretical point of view, networks are an effective model and a powerful system of enhancing services. The members and the networks are different parts of the resource equation for providing members seamless, high quality, reliable, local and global services. There is no real limit of what can be accomplished through a network when the network and its membership work in combination with each other. This collaboration is at the heart of the network.\nNetworks do not practice a profession or provide the services that their members provide to their clients. Networks do not provide accounting or legal services. They operate for the benefit of the members by supporting their operations. The network can combine the resources of the individual members without risking the loss of their personal identities or financial independence.\n\nA network is more than a support organization or collaborative framework in which the members can meet clients’ needs. It is an entity that has a common corporate identity or brand. The network name can represent a standard that is required of all its members. The logo and brand are owned by the network, not the members. Membership can create a global corporate identity. The objective of this identity is network participation that will translate into business for the individual independent members.\n\nFor a company to internally develop a global and local presence would take decades and billions of dollars. For a company/firms to start a network that develops the same market penetration may take a decade and cost only millions of dollars. However, these costs are allocated among the full membership so the cost per member is low. The cost for future members to gain direct and immediate access to these resources is de minimis.\n\nProfessional service networks are sui generis, and each network is formed for a different reason. Current and potential members are attracted to networks in which they can pursue their own individual objectives. While networks clearly do have things in common, each must be viewed in the context of its uniqueness. A successful network is one that meets the expectations of all of its members.\n\nThe objective of a network is to create a framework which can allow the members to expand their services. Within the network they can operate to pursue their interests. These interests can include referrals, joint venturing, access to expertise, developing regional expertise, publishing articles for clients, branding, technical information exchange, market positioning, pro bono services, etc. The scope of these interests is defined not by the members but by the network.\n\nNetwork organizations are defined by their purpose, structure and process. The purpose of a network is different from that of a company or professional firm in that it is limited to specific activities that will benefit its members and enhance its performance. The network’s structure reflects the activities it seeks to promote and the underlying cultures of the members. Accounting, legal, multidisciplinary and specialty networks will each be different. The process is defined by how they are governed and operated.\n\nNetworks are created around common specialized assets, joint control, and a collective purpose. The specialized assets reflect the defined activities of the network. In order to have joint control of the assets, there needs to be collaborations among members. The collaboration necessitates a commonly understood purpose or purposes. A professional services network is neither a mere extension of the members nor only a support organization for independent professional services firms, but is rather an independent organization. It is also a business, and very different from professional associations such as bar, accounting and other associations whose membership is generally open to all qualified professionals.\n\nWhen asked why they joined, members usually state that they joined for tangible reasons: to receive referrals from other members, to have reliable firms to which they can refer, to maintain independence, to meet clients’ needs, to retain existing clients by being able to provide services in other states or countries, and to obtain new clients in their market who know of the membership. They may also want to exchange knowledge that can reduce risks in their own firm's operations, or gain access to other resources. Network members also minimize possible losses by spreading risks. Membership is a proactive way to profit from change and at the same time to conserve resources. Membership can also enhance the prestige of the member by being associated with prestigious firms that the client is already using. Networks achieve these objectives through different corporate structures in which executives have command and control.\n\n"}
{"id": "47771861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47771861", "title": "Property Tax Circuit Breaker", "text": "Property Tax Circuit Breaker\n\nA Property Tax Circuit Breaker is a tax refund in the United States given to low income individuals and families whose property tax liability is a large percentage of their yearly income. The term was coined by John Shannon of the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations in the 1960s. There are currently 18 states who use a wide scope of programs to relieve the property tax burden for low income individuals and families. Just as an electrical circuit breaker will prevent an electric circuit from being overloaded with energy, these programs prevent low income households from being overloaded with tax burden. Like all tax refunds, these programs require low income households to pay the entire property tax up-front then a credit or refund is given during the income tax processing. A popular feature of the property tax circuit breaker is that rather than limiting the amount of money someone pays in property taxes, relief is given after the property taxes are paid. This is done so that the locality who is in charge of levying the taxes and utilizing the revenue does not see a decrease in revenue from property taxes, rather the state government passes down relief for those property taxes that are paid.\n\nThreshold Circuit Breakers: Threshold circuit breakers are the most popular type utilizing a specific threshold percentage that property taxes must exceed before any tax relief is available. With this type of circuit breaker relief would be equal to the amount of property taxes paid above the threshold. There are single-threshold formulas where a single threshold is established to focus on tax relief, and there is also multiple-threshold formulas where the relief can be applied more progressively in an incremental fashion. The multiple-threshold formula is more common than the single-threshold formula.\n\nSliding Scale Circuit Breakers: These circuit breakers utilize income brackets to formulate a reduction in property taxes regardless of the amount of property tax. The tax relief will be the same within each tax bracket and will decrease incrementally with each increase in the income bracket so that those with the lowest of incomes will receive the highest of property tax reductions. An example of this method would be: A 50% reduction for the first $10,000 income, a 40% reduction for the next $5,000 income, a 30% reduction for the next $5,000 in income. This sliding scale would eventually stop at a certain income level where a property tax reduction would possibly be deemed unnecessary.\n\nThere are currently 18 different programs that provide property tax relief in the United States. The programs and their eligibility vary by state. The states with these programs limit eligibility in three ways; whether the tax payer is a renter or a homeowner, whether the tax payer is elderly or disabled, and the income level of the tax payer. Circuit breakers are offered to renters and homeowners in 16 states, only home owners in 1 state and only renters in 1 state; in 8 states the programs are limited to only the elderly or disabled and in all 18 states there is a maximum income level after which a taxpayer no longer qualifies for a refund. Although some states have a much more generous income ceiling, participation in these programs is limited by a requirement that the property tax liability be a certain percentage of the taxpayers yearly income. In turn, it is believed by researchers that this type of tax relief is more beneficial to low income families rather than middle or high income families.\n\n"}
{"id": "8768724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8768724", "title": "Q-CERT", "text": "Q-CERT\n\nThe Qatar Computer Emergency Response Team was created in December 2006 by CERT/CC and ictQATAR. It is Qatar's coordination center in dealing with internet security problems. \n\nQ-CERT was the first-ever CERT to be established in the Middle East. Plans for Q-CERT were first announced in December 2006 after ictQATAR and the CERT Coordination Center entered into a partnership. It signed a cooperation agreement with the SANS Institute to provide training courses in cyber security for IT specialists in Qatar's government. In November 2016, the first GCC cyber drill was held under the auspices of Q-CERT and was engaged in by internet security specialists from four GCC countries.\n\nThe goals of Q-CERT are to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41647", "title": "Reframing time", "text": "Reframing time\n\nIn telecommunication, the reframing time (or frame-alignment recovery time) is the time interval between the instant at which a valid frame-alignment signal is available at the receiving data terminal equipment and the instant at which frame alignment is established. \n\nThe reframing time includes the time required for replicated verification of the validity of the frame-alignment signal.\n"}
{"id": "5739485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5739485", "title": "Retspan", "text": "Retspan\n\nRetSpan was a French anti-piracy organization that attempted to shut down SuprNova for copyright violations in 2004.\nIt has been denounced as a possible fraud.\n"}
{"id": "45225659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45225659", "title": "Sheri Sangji case", "text": "Sheri Sangji case\n\nThe Sheri Sangji case is the first criminal case resulting from an academic laboratory accident.\n\nThe case arose from a fatal accident that occurred in the chemistry laboratory of Patrick Harran at the University of California at Los Angeles (UCLA). Research assistant Sheharbano \"Sheri\" Sangji suffered severe burns from a fire that occurred on December 28, 2008 when a plastic syringe she was using to transfer the pyrophoric reagent \"tert\"-butyllithium from one sealed container to another came apart, spilling the chemical, and igniting a fire. Sangji was not wearing a protective lab coat and her clothing caught fire, resulting in severe burns that led to her death 18 days later.\n\nAn investigation was conducted by the California Occupational Safety and Health Administration (Cal/OSHA), which protects the public and workers from safety hazards and enforces the U.S. State of California's occupational and public safety laws.\n\nIn 2009, Cal/OSHA fined UCLA $31,875 for violations relating to the fire and in 2012, the Los Angeles District Attorney filed four felony charges against the Regents of the University of California and Patrick Harran for \"willful violation of safety regulations\". However, prosecutors reached a deferred prosecution agreement after Harran agreed to pay a donation to a local burn center and do community service. On September 6, 2018, the court announced that Harran had fulfilled the terms of the agreement, and dismissed the charges against him.\n\nSangji's death and Harran's legal proceedings have led to a significant increase in the safety standards of research laboratories in academic settings.\n\nSangji's family was unhappy with the terms of the settlement with Harran. Sangji's sister, Naveen, has called the sanctions against Harran and UCLA \"barely a slap on the wrist.\" The Sangji's family remarked, \"[t]his settlement, like the previous one with UCLA, is barely a slap on the wrist for the responsible individual.\" \nShe noted that previous safety violations in his lab were not corrected before her sister's death and that UCLA had ignored the \"wake-up calls\" of earlier accidents in other labs. She decried the nearly $4.5 million in legal fees — enough to buy 86,000 lab coats. \"Had UCLA spent even a tiny fraction of this money and effort on laboratory and chemical safety training and fire resistant gear … Sheri might still be with us today,\" Naveen said.\n"}
{"id": "39316919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39316919", "title": "The Sources of English Law", "text": "The Sources of English Law\n\nThe Sources of English Law (as it is sometimes known) is an essay written by Heinrich Brunner and translated by others.\n\nIn 1909, it was described as a \"valuable survey of the sources and literature of English law\". In 1914, Winfield called it a \"valuable\" guide \"to the materials of English law\".\n\nThis essay was published under the title Ueberblick über die Geschichte der französischen, normannischen, und englischen Rechtsquellen in 1877 in the third edition of \"Encyclopädie der Rechtwissenschaft\", by Franz von Holtzendorf, at pages 229 to 267, as Part II, section 4. It was reprinted in 1882, in the fourth edition of that work, at pages 277 to 317; and in 1890, in the fifth edition, at pages 303 to 347. It was omitted from the sixth edition published in 1904.\n\nIt was translated into English by W Hastie and published under the title The Sources of the Law of England at Edinburgh in 1888. This publication does not disclose the edition from which it is translated.\n\nA translation by Ernst Freund was published under the title The Sources of English Law in volume 2 of \"Select Essays in Anglo-American Legal History\", at pages 7 to 52. The notes to this volume say that the version contained therein is \"revised, enlarged and recast\" by Brunning, who has omitted so much of the essay as relates to Norman and French sources. This version was published, \"with some further revision\", in its German dress, under the title Geschichte der Englischen Rechtsquellen im Grundiss in Leipzig in 1909 by Duncker and Humblot. This version has been described as follows:\n"}
{"id": "22335930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22335930", "title": "Thomas David Lukas Olsen", "text": "Thomas David Lukas Olsen\n\nThomas David Lukas Olsen (né Magnus Gäfgen; born 11 April 1975 in Frankfurt am Main) is a German child murderer. In 2002, he was arrested for the murder of 11-year-old Jakob von Metzler, the son of a well-known Frankfurt banker (see Metzler Bank). The following year, Gäfgen was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nThe case drew some controversy over the fact that Gäfgen was threatened with torture during his interrogation by the police in order to save his victims life.\n\nIn January 2015, it became known that he had changed his name from Magnus Gäfgen to Thomas David Lukas Olsen, reportedly inspired by the fictional Danish/Norwegian criminal Egon Olsen.\n\nGäfgen has a modest family background, but went on to study law at the Goethe University in 1996. On 27 September 2002 he kidnapped Jakob von Metzler in order to blackmail his parents, but killed him in his apartment. Gäfgen then demanded one million euro in ransom from the Metzler family. He was observed by the police when he picked up the ransom. After a few hours, during which he had booked a holiday and not released his victim, who was already dead, he was arrested. After being threatened with torture, as ordered by Frankfurt Police Vice President Wolfgang Daschner, he confessed and told where the body was hidden.\n\nIn his conviction for murder to life imprisonment in July 2003, the court established his grave level of guilt (\"besondere Schwere der Schuld\"). As a consequence, he is not eligible for early release after 15 years, as is otherwise usual for life prisoners. His appeal to the Federal Court of Justice was rejected in May 2004. His complaint to the Federal Constitutional Court was rejected in December 2004. In 2005, he filed a complaint against Germany at the European Court of Human Rights (case no. 22978/05, \"Gäfgen v. Germany\") which he partially won in 2010: Germany was convicted for violation of article 3 ECHR (Prohibition of torture and inhuman and degrading treatment), but was acquitted for violation of article 6 (Right to a fair trial). Additionally, he sued the state of Hesse and demanded compensation for allegedly suffering trauma after being threatened with torture, however, he lost the case.\n\nMagnus Gäfgen is serving his life sentence in Schwalmstadt Prison in the state of Hesse. He got his law degree while in prison, and published the autobiography \"Allein mit Gott – Der Weg zurück\" (\"Alone with God – The way back\") in 2005. His plans to establish a \"Gäfgen Foundation\" that should help children who had been victims of crime sparked controversy, and after authorities stated they would never allow such a foundation to be registered, he dropped the plans.\n\nIn August 2011 Magnus Gäfgen was awarded €3,000 damages for the police threat to torture him. Gäfgen originally wanted €10,000.\nHis liquidator tried to seize the money.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "147513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147513", "title": "Treaty of Frankfurt (1871)", "text": "Treaty of Frankfurt (1871)\n\nThe Treaty of Frankfurt (; ) was a peace treaty signed in Frankfurt on 10 May 1871, at the end of the Franco-Prussian War.\n\nThe treaty did the following:\n\n\nThe treaty also established the terms for the following:\n\n\nThe German military spoke up for control of the Alsace region, up to the Vosges (mountain range) and the area between Thionville (Diedenhofen) and Metz as a requirement for the protection of Germany. Most importantly, the German military regarded control of the route between Thionville and Metz as the most important area of control if there were ever to be a future war with France.\n\nWithout a westward shift in the boundary, the new empire's frontier with France would have been largely divided between the states of Baden and Bavaria whose governments were less than enthusiastic with the prospect of having a vengeful France on their doorstep. It also would have necessitated the stationing of substantial imperial forces within these states' borders, possibly compromising their ability to exercise the considerable autonomy that the southern states were able to maintain in the unification treaty. A shift in the frontier alleviated these issues.\n\nThe new political border largely (though not entirely) followed the linguistic border. The fact that the majority of the population in the new Imperial Territory (\"Reichsland\") territory spoke Germanic dialects allowed Berlin to justify the annexation on nationalistic grounds.\n\nNatural resources in Alsace-Lorraine (iron-ore, and coal) do not appear to have played a role in Germany's fight for the areas annexed. Military annexation was the main stated goal along with unification of the German people.\nAt the same time, France lost 1,447,000 hectares, 1,694 villages and 1,597,000 inhabitants. It also lost 20% of its mining and steel potential.\nThe treaty of trade of 1862 with Prussia was not renewed but France granted Germany, for trade and navigation, a most-favoured nation clause. France would respect the clauses of the Treaty of Frankfurt in their entirety until 1914.\n\nFrance also had to pay a full payment of 5,000,000,000 francs in gold, with one billion in 1871, before any German forces withdrawal (which occurred on September 1873).\n\nThis treaty polarized French policy towards Germany for the next 40 years. The reconquest of Alsace-Lorraine, the \"lost provinces,\" became an obsession characterized by a revanchism which would be one of the most powerful motives in France's involvement in World War I.\n\nIn 1918, U.S. President Woodrow Wilson addressed the issue as Point 8 in his Fourteen Points speech, expressing the will of the United States to the restitution of the region to France. Thus Alsace-Lorraine returned to the French Republic under the 1919 Treaty of Versailles. The Germans accepted to surrender under the term of the American proposal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1464125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1464125", "title": "United Software Association", "text": "United Software Association\n\nThe United Software Association (USA) was a warez organization which released games and software for the IBM PC platform during the 1990s. USA formed a co-op with the PC warez division of Fairlight which was best known as \"USA/FLT\". USA was formed as the result of a split of several members from another noteworthy PC group, The Humble Guys (THG). Key members, such as Genesis and The NotSoHumble Babe, left THG, eventually resulting in public displays of animosity.\n\nUSA had a subdivision known as \"USA-DoX\" which was responsible for transcribing or otherwise typing up documentation to accompany a release. This division was also carried over by Genesis from THG, which previously had its own documentation division known as \"HumbleDox\".\n\nIn late January 1992, several members of USA, including Mike Arnolds (The Grim Reaper) and \"Amy\" (The NotSoHumble Babe), were arrested by the United States Secret Service (in cooperation with the Farmington Hills Police and Michigan State Police) for \"carding\" (credit card fraud).\n"}
{"id": "21379221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21379221", "title": "Vatican Radio lawsuit", "text": "Vatican Radio lawsuit\n\nThe Vatican Radio lawsuit was started by the Regional Health Department for \"Throwing of dangerous things\" on the Italian ground at their antenna site.\n\nThe Santa Maria di Galeria transmitter site is the subject of a dispute between the station and some local residents who claim the non-ionising radiation from the site has affected their health. However these claims are not accepted by the station. The only peer reviewed study of these statistics did find a statistically higher incidence of leukemia within 6 km of the transmitter site, but stated that no causal implication can be drawn. Every time it has been sued, the station cited the Lateran Treaty, bilateral agreements signed by the Holy See and Benito Mussolini which exempt it from Italian law. (The area around the antennas at the time it was built was not heavily populated.)\n\nVatican Radio covers an area of Rome, as set by the 'extraterritorial right' in Italian law. Within this area, some of the station's pylons are higher than . These transmitters have been in place since 1957. Since this part of Rome is not under Italian jurisdiction, these transmitters are not subject to the Italian laws that limit the radiation that a radio station can emit. In the vicinity of these pylons, the radiation emitted can be more than the double the amount allowed by Italian law, as verified officially by the Italian Civil Defense and the Department for the Environment of the region of Lazio. However, these levels are comparable to those allowed in other countries and are frequency dependent.\n\nResidents who have moved to the area near the transmitters have experienced other disturbances relating to the station, as is common near transmitter sites the world over. The most common complaints are that one can hear the transmissions breaking through on telephones, and other electronic devices (due in many cases to the devices having poor electromagnetic immunity to the strong signals). The Region of Lazio has also found that the people in the area around the transmitters are more likely to have leukemia; the closer those in the examined sample lived to the radio station, the more likely they were to have leukemia, up to six times the Italian national average. This study was not peer reviewed.\n\nDramatizing the study, a well known Italian TV program called \"Le Iene\" went to the radio station and replaced the radio's insignia with a new one stating 'Radio Erode' meaning 'Herod's Radio', referring to Herod the Great and the Massacre of the Innocents, since the study showed that the most affected people are children 0 to 14 years old.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58408023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58408023", "title": "Vladimir Vinnichevsky", "text": "Vladimir Vinnichevsky\n\nVladimir Georgievich Vinnichevsky (born July 1923 in Verkhnyaya Salda, Ekaterinburg - November 11, 1940 in Sverdlovsk Oblast), known as the \"Urals Monster\", was the youngest Soviet-Russian serial killer.\n\nHe was convicted of eighteen attacks on children aged between two and four years in 1938-1939 in Sverdlovsk, Nizhny Tagil and Kushva. Eight of these attacks resulted in murder.\n\nOn January 16, 1940, Vinnichevsky was sentenced to death and executed several months later.\n\nVladimir Vinnichevsky was born in July 1923. His father - George Ivanovich, was a master in the municipal public utilities of Sverdlovsk. And his mother - Elizaveta Petrovna, was an accountant. The family lived in a separate private house in the center of Sverdlovsk. The Vinnichevsky family was provided well by Soviet standards at the time: Vladimir had a suit, a tank helmet, a Swiss knife, and leather shoes. He also had pocket money - at the time of his arrest he was found to have more than 20 rubles, which was then the two-day earnings of an average worker. Vladimir also studied at the Sverdlovsk School № 16, in class 7 \"B\". Although his progress was low, he remained in the second year. However, Vinnichevsky sang well and knew many songs by heart.\n\nVinnichevsky was on friendly terms with Ernst Neizvestny, who later became a famous sculptor. Neizvestny and Vinnichevsky were in the same year of schooling (Vinnichevsky was two years older than Neizvestny, but went to school a year later and once remained in the second year). The adolescents lived near and went to school together, went to the cinema together and attended performances in the Theater of Musical Comedy. Vinnichevsky often visited Neizvestny's apartment. During an interrogation on November 17, 1939, Ernst Neizvestny described Vinnichevsky:\n\nIt is now known when Vladimir committed the first murder, since the investigators could not find the relatives of the first victims, about whom Vinnichevsky gave evidence. To commit his crimes, Vinnichevsky would go around yards, saying that he was under the orders of the Komsomol organization for the sponsored Pioneer squads collecting scrap metal, and therefore went around neighborhoods, figuring out which residents had scrap.\n\nThe first murder (or more precisely, the third, as there is no information on the previous murders) was that of 4-year-old Gerta Grebanova, committed in the summer or early autumn of 1938 in Sverdlovsk. Vinnichevsky entered the courtyard of the private house where the Gribanovs lived, took the girl to the kitchen garden, where he strangled her, and then struck her head 8 times with a kitchen knife, breaking it, and leaving a splinter in the victim's skull. He later disposed of the broken knife and used a screwdriver and a folding knife in later murders.\nAlthough Vinnichevsky committed most of the attacks in Sverdlovsk, he made trips to other cities in the Sverdlovsk Oblast to confuse the investigation - one attack was committed in Nizhny Tagil, and another in Kushva. He attacked both boys and girls. The motive of the attack was a sexual act with the victim. At first, Vinnichevsky tried to perform a \"natural\" sexual act with the female victims, but he was convinced that, due to anatomical limitations, this could not be done. Then he began to perform anal intercourse, and in some cases (usually in the cold season) limited himself to rubbing his genitals. After the act Vinnichevsky would choke his victim, and sometimes stab them to death.\n\nThe murder of Gerta Gribanova gave the investigators evidence, as the girl's skull had a knife piece stuck in it. The girl's body was beheaded by the investigative authorities: the skull was left as evidence, and the rest given to the child's parents for the burial. The assumption was that the killer would use the same kitchen knife that ended Gribanova's life, but later, this assumption turned out to be false.\n\nThe fifth victim of Vinnichevsky was a boy who, most likely, survived, but could not be found. Then the killer suggested to 4-year-old Borya Titov to go sledging with him, took him to a wasteland, and attacked him after a snowdrift. Although Vinnichevsky prudently took the child with him, Borya was rescued, and later told the investigators about the murderer.\n\nThe seventh victim was 3-year-old Katya Lobanov in Kushva. The girl was killed, and her body later thrown into a swamp to hide the smell of degradation.\n\nIn Sverdlovsk, Vinnichevsky began to practice the kidnapping of children and killing them in the forest massifs to the outskirts, where the bodies were covered with branches. This is how 4-year-old Lida Surina and 3-year-old Valya Kamaeva died in the spring of 1939. Later, 3-year-old Alya Gubina was kidnapped, with whom Vinnichevsky had sexual intercourse, after which he stabbed her several times with a knife, leaving a wound 25 centimeters long. After that, he threw the girl away, but she survived, and quickly fled. At the same time, Vinnichevsky did not take the child further than 1 km away from the place where he picked her up. He killed not only in the outskirts, but also near his home on Mamin-Sibiryak Street, where he kidnapped two children.\n\nThe last victim - 4-year-old Taisia Morozov - after killing her, Vinnichevsky threw her body into a cesspool, placing her clothes into the front garden of the apartment building, hoping that it was there that they would search for the child's remains.\n\nThe wounded victims from Vinnichevsky's attacks who were thrown into cesspools had practically no chance to escape, even if they were still alive. However, 4-year-old Raya Rahmatulina, thrown by Vinnichevsky into a cesspool, woke up and began to scream, alerting passers-by who rescued her.\n\nThe Sverdlovsk criminal investigation department found it difficult to investigate cases of abductions of children. The kidnappings were very different - from the different locations, to the different disposal of the bodies. In addition, the surviving children could not give a clear description of the kidnapper. Finally, the parents of some of the victims did not file a complaint to the police. At the same time, the investigators made several erroneous assumptions about the murderer's identity. Everyone was sure that the killer had been convicted earlier, and, it was supposed, for crimes against the sexual inviolability of the person. It was assumed that the murder was between 20 and 25, and looked like a teenager. According to one theory, the killer was a disable or seriously ill person. Only in the summer of 1939 were all known cases connected into one thing. However, the attacks in Nizhny Tagil and Kushva were connected with the Sverdlovsk murders. In 1939, Sverdlovsk was flooded with hidden police patrols, with more than 300 people arrested.\n\nOn October 24, 1939, during the commission of the crimes, Vinnichevsky was detained by three militia cadets named Popov, Angelov and Krylov. Patrolling at the tram stop in Verkhnyaya Pyshma, the cadets noticed a tall man who was carrying a little boy into the forest. Vinnichevsky had kidnapped the 3-year-old Slava Volkov, whom his mother left for a few minutes at the entrance of the family home. The killer snatched the boy quickly, and got into the tram to get away from his pursuers. Cadets followed the teenager and found him at a time when Vinnichevsky was choking the boy. Slava was rescued, and Vinnichevsky was detained.\n\nAs Borya's neck covered his neck, Vinnichevsky had to unbutton his button and begin strangling Borya, leaving well-visible scrapes of skin on his fingernails. This deprived Vinnichevsky of the opportunity to come up with an exculpatory version of his actions such as: \"I wanted to fix the boy's scarf\" or \"loosen the button on his shirt collar\".\n\nDuring the investigation, Vinnichevsky confessed to the murders, revealing that he had recorded all the murders on paper, encrypting the text.\n\nVinnichevsky's parents brought this statement to the regional newspaper titled \"The Ural Worker\":\n\nThe doctor of jurisprudence AS Skryalin emphasizes that the trial of Vinnichevsky was held when Soviet legislation provided for the death penalty for minors who had reached the age of 12 years. The People's Commissar for Defense, Kliment Voroshilov, on March 19, 1935, sent Stalin, Molotov and Kalinin a letter with a proposal to introduce the death penalty for children, pointing to the statistics of child crime in Moscow and, in particular, on wounding a son of the deputy prosecutor of the Soviet capital by a 9-year-old boy. Voroshilov was well acquainted with Stalin for battle of Tsaritsyn. The letter quickly gave the result in the form of a normative legal act. On April 8, 1935, a joint resolution of the CEC and the Council of People's Commissars of the USSR \"on measures to combat juvenile delinquency\" was promulgated, providing for the imposition of the death penalty from the age of 12. This was known abroad. The famous writer Romain Rolland, in a conversation with Stalin on June 28, 1935, questioned the humanity of such a measure. Stalin replied to him:\n\nOn April 20, 1935, the top secret circular of the USSR Prosecutor's Office and the USSR Supreme Court No. 1/001537-30/002517, which was signed by the USSR Prosecutor Andrei Vyshinsky and the Chairman of the Supreme Court of the USSR Vinokurov, is dated. The Circular explained to Prosecutor's Offices and Courts the Resolution \"On measures to combat crime among minors\":\n\nТhus, the USSR prosecutor's office and the Supreme Court of the USSR virtually abolished article 22 of the Criminal Code, which explicitly abolished the execution against persons under the age of 18. On January 2, 1936, the Resolution of the Plenum of the Supreme Court of the USSR indicated that if persons who have attained the age of 12 commit crimes not listed in Article 12, but connected with violence, bodily harm, mutilation or murder, they are liable under the relevant article of the Criminal Code.\n\nSecret circular № 1/001537 - 30/002517 also prescribed (under the proposal) prosecuting authorities and the courts to inform the prosecutor of the USSR and Chairman of the Supreme Court of the USSR \"on all cases of criminal trial of juvenile offenders in respect of which it is possible the use of the death penalty\".\n\nOn January 16, 1940, Vinnichevsky was sentenced to death by the Soviet court. The convict filed a pardon, in which he claimed that he was ready to win forgiveness in battle, and expressed desire to become a tanker, since at the time of the USSR was at war with Finland. His clemency was denied, and he was executed.\n\nIn the USSR, bodies of those executed were not given to relatives for burial, but were buried in special secret places. Vinnichevsky was probably buried at 12 km of the Moscow tract. This is the only known burial place in the Sverdlovsk region, where the bodies of the executed were buried in the 1930s. These bodies were not divided for what they were shot for, therefore, in one mass grave, those executed for political reasons and on criminal charges, such as Vinnichevsky. In the 1990s, the burial place was turned into a memorial complex of victims of reprisals of the 1920-1950s. On November 20, 2017, at this complex a monument titled \"Masks of Sorrow: Europe-Asia\" was opened, the work of a friend of Vinnichevsky, Ernst Neizvestny.\n\nVinnichevsky's criminal case is No. 434. According to the State Archives of the Sverdlovsk Region, the archive contains four volumes of the criminal case against Vladimir Georgievich Vinnichevsky, considered by the Sverdlovsk Regional Court in 1940. They are in the fund of the State Archives of the Sverdlovsk Region R-148 \"Sverdlovsk Regional Court\" (Inventory 2). In one media in the summer of 2017, information appeared that the materials of the criminal case of Vinnichevsky had been kept secret for more than 70 years. However, according to the answer of the State Archives of the Sverdlovsk Region on March 16, 2018, the Vinnichevsky case was archived in 1991, and since then has been freely available.\n\n In January 2018, A. Rakitin published a two-volume book dedicated to Vinnichevsky, titled: \"The Urals Monster: Chronicle of the exposure of the most mysterious serial killer of the Soviet Union\". In this book, the author put forward a version that Vinnichevsky had an accomplice.\n\n\n"}
