{"id": "23214484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23214484", "title": "2009 flu pandemic in Africa", "text": "2009 flu pandemic in Africa\n\nThe 2009 flu pandemic hit Africa two months later than other continents with the first case reported in Egypt on June 2, 2009. As of December 1, 30 countries in Africa had reported cases and 7 countries in Africa had reported a total of 108 deaths.\nSymptoms of H1N1 swine flu are like regular flu symptoms and include fever, cough, sore throat, runny nose, body aches, headache, chills, and fatigue. Many people with swine flu have had diarrhea and vomiting, but these symptoms can also be caused by many other conditions. That means that you and your doctor can't know, just based on your symptoms, if you've got swine flu. Healthcare professionals may offer a rapid flu test, although a negative result doesn't mean you don't have the flu. The accuracy of the test depends on the quality of the manufacturer’s test, the sample collection method, and how much of the virus a person is emitting at the time of testing.\n\nLike seasonal flu, pandemic swine flu can cause neurological symptoms in children. These events are rare, but, as cases associated with seasonal flu have shown, they can be very severe and often fatal. Symptoms include seizures or changes in mental status (confusion or sudden cognitive or behavioral changes). It's not clear why these symptoms occur, although they may be caused by Reye's syndrome. Reye's syndrome usually occurs in children with a viral illness who have taken aspirin -- something that should always be avoided.\n\nThe first case of swine influenza was detected in Algeria on June 20. This was an Algerian national, resident in Frankfurt and coming from Miami with her two children.\n\nThis first case was detected at Houari Boumediene Airport. Many Algerian immigrants and tourists were arriving during this holiday period, increasing the risk of spreading the virus. The woman suffering from flu was immediately transferred to the hospital of El-Kettar’ in Algiers.\nAs of May 2, 2009 there was one suspected case of swine flu in Benin.\nThe Egyptian government increased numbers of medical officers at Cairo Airport and pledged to monitor passengers from Mexico during their stay.\n\nThe government ordered the mass slaughter of all pigs in Egypt on April 29, even though the pandemic strain was a human-human transmittable, human influenza that has already previously hybridized with avian and swine flu. The World Organization for Animal Health called the swine killing \"scientifically unjustified\".\n\nEgypt commenced the slaughter on 2 May 2009.\nOn the next day in Cairo, an estimated 300 Coptic Christian residents of the Manshiyat Nasr district set up blockades on the street in attempt to keep government officers from confiscating their pigs, which led to clashes with the police. \"Al-Ahram\", a widely circulated Egyptian newspaper, reported that owners of destroyed pigs would receive 1000 Egyptian pounds (approximately US$177.70) per animal in compensation, but Reuters reported that the issue was still \"under discussion\", citing an Egyptian cabinet spokesman.\n\nThe first case of the novel H1N1 virus was discovered in Cairo, Egypt on the second of June, in a 12-year-old girl coming from the USA with her mother. Only the girl was infected, and the officials caught the case before she left the airport.\n\nA second and third case were discovered on Sunday 7 June: two students at the American University of Cairo.\n\nAs of June 9, there was 8 confirmed case of swine flu in Egypt.\n\nOn June 11, 2 more cases were discovered, along with 2 cases discovered a day earlier, bringing the total number of swine flu cases to 12.\n\nAs of December 3, the confirmed cases were 3558 and the deaths of 24.\nAs of January 31, there were 258 confirmed deaths from A/H1N1 influenza in Egypt, and in excess of 15,800 confirmed cases of H1N1.\nOn June 19, 2009 the Ethiopian government reported two cases of swine flu. They were both in girls who had returned from school in the United States for summer break. One additional case was reported by July 6. By December 14, 2009, six cases had been reported with no deaths contributed to the flu. \nGhana banned the importation of pork and pork products. As of December 14, 2009, Ghana had 54 cases with no deaths reported.\nKenya health authorities started screening travellers at Jomo Kenyatta and Moi international airports on April 28. Public Health and Sanitation minister Beth Mugo said travellers from Mexico and those from Texas, California and New York were being screened.\n\nOn June 29, a British medical student became the first confirmed case of swine flu in Kenya. The student, who was in a group of 33, was in Kenya to attend a series of medical camps in Nyanza province. The whole group was quarantined in their hotel in Kisumu while undergoing treatment.\n\nThere was a panic in Nairobi as mobile text messages circulated warning people to stay away from Sarit centre, a popular commercial establishment where another suspected case had been diagnosed. The patient's test results, however, came back negative for the H1N1 virus.\n\nAs of December 14, 2009, Kenya had 417 cases with no deaths reported.\n\nOn 6 July 2009, Libya had its first confirmed case of swine flu from a man that had travelled from Thailand via Dubai. As of December 5, 2009, Libya had 124 cases with no deaths. \nMorocco confirmed the first case of novel human swine flu (A/H1N1-2009) on 12 June, in an 18-year-old university student returning from Canada. As of December 5, 2009, Morocco had 1,763 cases with 5 deaths. \n\nNamibia confirmed its first two cases of swine flu on July 20.\n\nBoth cases involved young adults who had been traveling in other countries: a 13-year-old boy from Rehoboth who returned from a rugby trip with 20 other students in South Africa and a young student returning from Europe. The latter was taken by ambulance to hospital directly from the international airport in Windhoek as she showed severe signs of flu.\nNigerian Health Minister Babatunde Osotimehin announced that the country was stockpiling antiviral treatments, informing the public and increasing surveillance.\n\nThe first A/H1N1 death was confirmed in Nigeria on 5 January 2010, with the victim being a 38-year-old woman from Lagos who was infected in the US.\nTunisia confirmed the two first cases of swine flu (A/H1N1-2009) on June 22. Both cases were returning from the United States, and recovered quickly.\n\nOn April 29, South Africa reported two possible cases of swine flu from two women who had recently travelled in Mexico. On June 18, the first case was confirmed. Later, on 29 June the South African National Department of Health confirmed 7 cases of swine influenza in the country.\n\nThe first death in South Africa was confirmed on 3 August. The victim was a student at the University of Stellenbosch. A few days later the second confirmed death was announced: a male in Durban, Mount Edgecombe As of December 14, 2009, South Africa had 12631 cases with 91 deaths. \n\nThe H1N1 virus was a concern for the 2010 FIFA World Cup, which took place in June 2010 but there were not any major issues with the flu during the tournament.\n\nThe first case of swine flu in Sudan was confirmed in mid-July 2009. At the end of November the first case was confirmed in Southern Sudan.\n\nAs of December 28, 2009, there were five deaths and over 150 confirmed cases of swine flu in Sudan.\nAn emergency task force was set up by the Zambian government.\n"}
{"id": "8299869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8299869", "title": "Alice Stewart", "text": "Alice Stewart\n\nDr Alice Mary Stewart, \"née\" Naish (4 October 19063 June 2002) was a British physician and epidemiologist specialising in social medicine and the effects of radiation on health. Her study of radiation-induced illness among workers at the Hanford plutonium production plant, Washington, is frequently cited by those who seek to demonstrate that even very low doses of radiation cause substantial hazard. She was the first person to demonstrate the link between x-rays of pregnant women and disease in their children. She was awarded the Right Livelihood Award in 1986.\n\nStewart was born in Sheffield, England, the daughter of two physicians, Lucy (née Wellburn) and Albert Naish. Both were pioneers in paediatrics, and both became heroes in Sheffield for their dedication to children's welfare. Alice studied pre-clinical medicine at Girton College, Cambridge, and in 1932 completed her clinical studies at the Royal Free Hospital, London. She gained experienced in hospital posts in Manchester and London, before returning to the Royal Free Hospital as a registrar. In 1941 she took a teaching post at the Oxford University Medical School, and it was here she developed her interest in social medicine, advising on health problems experienced by wartime munitions workers.\n\nThe department of social and preventive medicine at Oxford was created in 1942, with Stewart as assistant head. In 1950 she succeeded as head of the unit, but to her disappointment she was not granted the title of \"professor\", as awarded to her predecessor, because by then the post was considered not to be of great importance. Nonetheless, in 1953 the Medical Research Council allocated funds to her pioneering study of x-rays as a cause of childhood cancer, which she worked on from 1953 until 1956. Her results were initially regarded as unsound. Her findings on fetal damage caused by x-rays of pregnant women were eventually accepted worldwide and the use of medical x-rays during pregnancy and early childhood was curtailed as a result (although it took around two and a half decades). Stewart retired in 1974.\n\nHer most famous investigation came after her formal retirement, while an honorary member of the department of social medicine at the University of Birmingham. Working with Professor Thomas Mancuso of the University of Pittsburgh she examined the sickness records of employees in the Hanford plutonium production plant, Washington state, and found a far higher incidence of radiation-induced ill health than was noted in official studies. Sir Richard Doll, the epidemiologist respected for his work on smoking-related illnesses, attributed her anomalous findings to a \"questionable\" statistical analysis supplied by her assistant, George Kneale (who was aware of, but may have miscalculated, the unintentional \"over-reporting\" of cancer diagnoses in communities near to the works). Stewart herself acknowledged that her results were outside the range considered statistically significant. Today, however, her account is valued as a response to the perceived bias in reports produced by the nuclear industry.\n\nIn 1986, she was added to the \"roll of honour\" of the Right Livelihood Foundation, an annual award presented in Stockholm. Stewart eventually gained her coveted title of \"professor\" through her appointment as a professorial fellow of Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford. In 1997 Stewart was invited to become the first Chair of the European Committee on Radiation Risk.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20422911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20422911", "title": "Alvan Feinstein", "text": "Alvan Feinstein\n\nAlvan R. Feinstein (December 4, 1925 – October 25, 2001) was a clinician, a researcher and an epidemiologist who made significant impact on clinical investigation, especially on the field of clinical epidemiology that he helped define. He is regarded as one of the fathers of modern clinical epidemiology. He died at the age of 75 in Toronto on 25 October 2001 and is survived by his wife and two children.\n\nBorn in Philadelphia, Feinstein received his bachelor's degree (BSc 1947) and master's degree (MSc, 1948) at the University of Chicago. Feinstein received his medical degree (MD, 1952) at the University of Chicago School of Medicine. He completed his residency training in Internal Medicine at Rockefeller Institute. He was Board Certified in Internal Medicine in 1955 and became the medical director of Irvington House Institute (which later became part of New York University Langone Medical Center). While there, he studied patients with rheumatic fever and challenged the belief that proper treatment after an early diagnosis kept those patients from developing severe heart disease later in life. He demonstrated that the disease had different forms including one which causes joint pain and seldom progresses to heart disease. The other, which does result in heart disease, has no symptoms to evoke early detection. Thus, diagnosis of the disease at an early stage leads to a favorable outcome not because of early treatment but because those patients tend to have a less-virulent form.\n\nIn 1962, Feinstein joined the Yale University School of Medicine faculty and became the founding director of its Robert Wood Johnson Clinical Scholars Program in 1974. Under his direction, the program became recognized as one of the leading centers for training in clinical research methods. He was widely known for his incredible gifts for mentoring bringing a passion to academic medicine and the art of becoming an academic.\n\nHe published his first paper as a medical student in 1951 and more than 400 throughout his career. He wrote six major textbooks, two of which, \"Clinical Judgment\" (1967) and \"Clinical Epidemiology\" (1985) are among the most widely referenced books in clinical epidemiology. He completed the last one, \"Principles of medical statistics\" (2002), just before his death. At the time of his death he was the Sterling Professor of Medicine and Epidemiology, the Yale School of Medicine's most prestigious academic position.\nHis editorial work included that of the Journal of Chronic Diseases (1982–1988) and he founded and was editor of the Journal of Clinical Epidemiology (1988–2001).\n\nDuring his career, Feinstein garnered numerous recognitions and awards; including the Francis Gilman Blake Award as outstanding teacher to Yale medical students (1969), Richard and Hinda Rosenthal Foundation Award from the American College of Physicians (1982), Robert J. Glaser Annual Award from the Society for General Internal Medicine (1987), J. Allyn Taylor International Prize in Medicine (1987), Gairdner Foundation International Award (1993), and an honorary Doctor of Science degree from McGill University (1997). In 1991, Feinstein was named the Sterling Professor of Medicine and Epidemiology, Yale University's most prestigious academic honor.\n\nIn his later years, controversy marred his career with claims that he may have helped the tobacco industry by publishing articles minimizing the deleterious effects of smoking.\n\nA review of Feinstein's publications in 2002 concluded that \"perhaps in hindsight Feinstein could be criticized for not having clearly indicated the sponsorship of the tobacco industry behind these publications, of which he was fully aware. However, this does not suffice to infer that he was the tobacco industry's man. Feinstein's attitude in matters of publication appears balanced\". However, this review, an invited article written soon after Feinstein's death and published in the Journal of Clinical Epidemiology, may not be unbiased. For the fourteen years preceding his death, Feinstein was Editor in Chief of this journal, which was the publication outlet for numerous articles and opinion pieces by Feinstein and his colleagues that aimed to debunk the research on tobacco, for which role the journal was subsequently criticized.\n"}
{"id": "21489301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21489301", "title": "Anchor test", "text": "Anchor test\n\nIn psychometrics, an anchor test is a common set of test items administered in combination with two or more alternative forms of the test with the aim of establishing the equivalence of the test scores on the alternative forms. The purpose of the anchor test is to provide a baseline for an equating analysis between different forms of a test.\n\nAnchor test is one type of psychological assessment tool to measure an individual's knowledge or cognitive ability by testing the same areas in different ways. In psychometrics, to develop assessment tools that are reliable for testing certain skills and abilities are what most Psychometricists are interested in. Anchor tests are not intended to test the subject's ability to take tests, interpret questions, or understand a concept that is unrelated to the test questions. Instead, it eliminates the incongruency between what the test is designed to assess and what it actually assesses. Subjects will be tested on the same knowledge and skills in multiple ways in an anchor test. Compared with traditional tests in both education and psychology, anchor tests are intended to find out what an individual is able to do rather than what an individual is unable to do. A study examined that higher anchor test to total test correlation leads to better equating then implies that an anchor test with items of medium difficulty may lead to better equating.\n"}
{"id": "52157367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52157367", "title": "Asbestos and the law (United States)", "text": "Asbestos and the law (United States)\n\nWithin the United States, the use of asbestos is limited by state and federal regulations and legislation. Improper use of asbestos and injury from exposure is addressed through administrative action, litigation, and criminal prosecution. Injury claims arising from asbestos exposure may be tried as mass torts.\n\nAsbestos litigation is the longest, most expensive mass tort in U.S. history, involving more than 8,000 defendants and 700,000 claimants. By the early 1990s, \"more than half of the 25 largest asbestos manufacturers in the US, including Amatex, Carey-Canada, Celotex, Eagle-Picher, Forty-Eight Insulations, Manville Corporation, National Gypsum, Standard Insulation, Unarco, and UNR Industries had declared bankruptcy. Analysts have estimated that the total costs of asbestos litigation in the U.S. alone will eventually reach $200 to $275 billion. The amounts and method of allocating compensation have been the source of many court cases, and government attempts at resolution of existing and future cases.\n\nClaims made against employers by injured workers will typically be in the form of a workers compensation claim, although the long onset for diseases such as mesothelioma may make it impossible for a worker to pursue workers' compensation benefits. However, it is possible for an injured worker to also bring a product liability claim against a third party that is responsible for introducing asbestos into the workplace. Asbestos lawsuits in the U.S. have included the following as defendants:\n\nManufacturers of machinery in which asbestos-containing parts were used have contested liability on the grounds that nearly all of them either did not ship asbestos-containing parts with their products at all (that is, asbestos was installed only by end users) or did not sell replacement parts for their own products (in cases where the plaintiff was allegedly exposed well after any factory-original asbestos-containing parts would have been replaced), and either way cannot be responsible for toxic third-party parts that they did not manufacture, distribute, or sell. In 2008, the Washington Supreme Court, the first state supreme court to reach the issue, decided in favor of the defense. On January 12, 2012, the Supreme Court of California also decided in favor of the defense in \"O'Neil v. Crane Co.\"\n\nAnother area of dispute remains the so-called chrysotile-defense. Manufacturers of some products containing only chrysotile fibers claim that these are not as harmful as amphibole-containing products. As 95% of the products used in the United States historically were mostly chrysotile, this claim is widely disputed by health officials and medical professionals. The World Health Organization recognizes that exposure to all types of asbestos fibers, including chrysotile, can cause cancer of the lung, larynx, and ovary, mesothelioma, and asbestosis.\n\nDefendants in asbestos litigation have accused the lawyers who represent plaintiffs of unethical conduct, but those allegations have not been successful in stopping the litigation, nor have courts been sufficiently convinced by the allegations to sanction the law firms against whom the allegations have been raised.\n\n\nSince the bankruptcy filing of Johns-Manville in 1984, many U.S. and U.K. asbestos manufacturers have avoided litigation by filing bankruptcy. Asbestos bankruptcy trusts are personal injury trusts established by firms that have filed for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code to pay personal injury claims caused by exposure to asbestos. At least fifty-six trusts were established from the mid-1970s through 2011. The largest 26 of these trusts paid about 2.4 million claims totaling about $10.9 billion up to 2008. The trusts are governed by trust advisory committees that are generally controlled by lawyers from a few prominent law firms such as Baron & Budd, P.C. and Weitz & Luxenberg P.C.\n\nBankruptcy trusts may pay pennies on the dollar to people injured as a result of asbestos exposure. At the same time, these trusts may permit larger numbers of claimants to receive some kind of compensation, even if greatly reduced from potential recoveries in the tort system.\n\nThe federal Medicare Secondary Payer law imposes penalties for paying settlements directly to claimants without repaying the government for medical costs covered under the same programs under the legal doctrine of subrogation. In late 2016, attorneys general from 13 states sent demand letters to bankruptcy trusts for Armstrong World Industries, Babcock & Wilcox, DII, and Owens Corning. The purpose of the demand letters was to determine if the funds are reimbursing states for medical treatment received under Medicaid and Medicare.\n\nThe pursuit of compensation for asbestos injuries often involves both litigation against solvent defendants and filing claims against asbestos bankruptcy trusts.\n\nThe amount of compensation recovered by an injured plaintiff may depend on whether evidence of exposure to products from bankrupt firms is introduced at trial. If no evidence of exposure from bankrupt firms is presented then increased financial responsibility is likely to be assigned to solvent defendants. Researchers from RAND Corporation found that if a company filed for bankruptcy plaintiffs claimed exposure to their products in interrogatories and depositions at significantly reduced rates.\n\nWhen a plaintiff claiming an asbestos injury has filed a claim against a solvent defendant, courts may extend or reopen discovery when it is discovered that the plaintiff failed to disclose a trust claims. For example, in the 2008 case of \"Edwards v. John Crane-Houdaille, Inc\" production of claim forms was delayed until two weeks before trial. In the 2004 case of \"Stoeckler v. American Oil Co.\" the defendants discovered that the plaintiff did not disclose trust claims only three days after the start of the trial, resulting in the re-opening of discovery. To help avoid this type of issue, Judges will often adopt mandatory disclosure obligations for bankruptcy trust claims.\n\nAccording to a September 2004 of the \"American Journal of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine\", asbestos is still a hazard for 1.3 million US workers in the construction industry and for workers involved in the maintenance of buildings and equipment.\n\nAsbestos is not part of an ASTM (American Society for Testing and Materials) E 1527-05 Phase I Environmental Site Assessment (ESA). A building survey for asbestos is considered an out-of-scope consideration under the industry standard ASTM 1527-05 Phase I ESA (see ASTM E 1527-05). ASTM Standard E 2356-04 should be consulted by the owner or owner's agent to determine which type of asbestos building survey is appropriate, typically either a baseline survey or a design survey of functional areas. Both types of surveys are explained in detail under ASTM Standard E 2356-04. Typically, a baseline survey is performed by an EPA (or state) licensed asbestos inspector. The baseline survey provides the buyer with sufficient information on presumed asbestos at the facility, often which leads to reduction in the assessed value of the building (due primarily to forthcoming abatement costs). Note: EPA NESHAP (National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants) and OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration) Regulations must be consulted in addition to ASTM Standard E 2356-04 to ensure all statutory requirements are satisfied, ex. notification requirements for renovation/demolition. Asbestos is not a material covered under CERCLA (Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act ) innocent purchaser defense. In some instances, the U.S. EPA includes asbestos contaminated facilities on the NPL (Superfund). Buyers should be careful not to purchase facilities, even with an ASTM E 1527-05 Phase I ESA completed, without a full understanding of all the hazards in a building or at a property, without evaluating non-scope ASTM E 1527-05 materials, such as asbestos, lead, PCBs, mercury, radon, et al. A standard ASTM E 1527-05 does not include asbestos surveys as standard practice.\n\nIn 1988, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) issued regulations requiring certain U.S. companies to report the asbestos used in their products.\n\nA Senate subcommittee of the Health Education Labor and Pensions Committee heard testimony on July 31, 2001, regarding the health effects of asbestos. Members of the public, doctors, and scientists called for the United States to join other countries in a ban on the product.\n\nSeveral legislative remedies have been considered by the U.S. Congress but each time rejected for a variety of reasons. In 2005, Congress considered but did not pass legislation entitled the \"Fairness in Asbestos Injury Resolution Act of 2005\". The act would have established a $140 billion trust fund in lieu of litigation, but as it would have proactively taken funds held in reserve by bankruptcy trusts, manufacturers and insurance companies, it was not widely supported either by victims or corporations.\n\nOn April 26, 2005, Dr. Philip J. Landrigan, professor and chair of the Department of Community and Preventive Medicine at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City, testified before the US Senate Committee on the Judiciary against this proposed legislation. He testified that many of the bill's provisions were unsupported by medicine and would unfairly exclude a large number of people who had become ill or died from asbestos: \"The approach to the diagnosis of disease caused by asbestos that is set forth in this bill is not consistent with the diagnostic criteria established by the American Thoracic Society. If the bill is to deliver on its promise of fairness, these criteria will need to be revised.\" Also opposing the bill were the American Public Health Association and the Asbestos Workers' Union.\n\nOn June 14, 2006, the Senate Judiciary Committee approved an amendment to the act which would have allowed victims of mesothelioma $1.1M within 30 days of their claim's approval. This version would have also expanded eligible claimants to people exposed to asbestos from the September 11, 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center, and to construction debris in hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Ultimately, the bill's reliance on funding from private entities large and small, as well as debate over a sunset provision and the impact on the U.S. budgetary process caused the bill to fail to leave committee.\nAccording to the Environmental Working Group Action Fund, 10,000 people die each year from asbestos-caused diseases in the United States, including one out of every 125 American men who die over the age of 50. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has no general ban on the use of asbestos. However, asbestos was one of the first hazardous air pollutants regulated under Section 112 of the Clean Air Act of 1970, and many applications have been forbidden by the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA).\n\nIn 2010, Washington state passed a ban on hazardous materials in automotive brakes, phasing out asbestos in vehicle brakes, starting in 2014.\n\nIn 2013, Ohio passed became the first state to pass a law requiring transparency in asbestos bankruptcy trust claims. The same year Oklahoma passed a similar law called The Personal Injury Trust Fund Transparency Act. This law applies to all personal injury trusts. It requires plaintiffs to disclose all previously filed and anticipated trust claims for personal injuries within 90 days of filing a personal injury tort but not until at least 180 days before the assigned court date. If the plaintiff anticipates filing a trust claim all proceedings are stayed until their filing is complete. Filing new claims or amending claims after the initial disclosure triggers a new disclosure requirement. The law also allows defendants to stay proceedings by showing that the plaintiff could make a good faith filing with a trust. The law gives plaintiffs ten days to either file such a claim or show that it would probably be unsuccessful.\n\nIn South Carolina in 2015, State Senator Shane Massey introduced Senate Bill 281, \"The Court Transparency Act.\" S.281 would prohibit the state of South Carolina from hiring outside lawyers. Similar bills have been passed into law by 18 states. The bill would also prevent juries from awarding damages that exceed actual out of pocket costs incurred by plaintiffs.\n\nIn June 2015, Texas Governor Greg Abbott, a Republican, signed Texas House Bill 1492 into law. The law was written to end so-called asbestos \"double dipping\" in Texas. This law requires asbestos victims to perform more actions before proceeding to trial, and lowers the standard of proof of asbestos exposure for manufacturers to shift the blame onto other bankrupt companies A year earlier, Wisconsin Governor Scott Walker signed a similar bill into law.\n\nIn June 2016, President Obama signed into law the Frank R. Lautenburg Chemical Safety for the 21st Century Act (H.R. 2576). It serves to reform the TSCA of 1976 and aims to make federal safety regulations on toxic substances and chemicals effective.\n\nIn 2017, Iowa, Mississippi, North Dakota, and South Dakota all passed asbestos trust claims transparency laws.\n\nAsbestos abatement (removal of asbestos) has become a thriving industry in the United States. Strict removal and disposal laws have been enacted to protect the public from airborne asbestos. The Clean Air Act requires that asbestos be wetted during removal and strictly contained, and that workers wear safety gear and masks. The federal government has prosecuted dozens of violations of the act and violations of Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) related to the operations. Often these involve contractors who hire undocumented workers without proper training or protection to illegally remove asbestos.\n\nW. R. Grace and Company faces fines of up to $280 million for polluting the town of Libby, Montana. Libby was declared a Superfund disaster area in 2002, and the EPA has spent $54 million in cleanup. Grace was ordered by a court to reimburse the EPA for cleanup costs, but the bankruptcy court must approve any payments.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court has dealt with several asbestos-related cases since 1986. Two large class action settlements, designed to limit liability, came before the court in 1997 and 1999. Both settlements were ultimately rejected by the court because they would exclude future claimants, or those who later developed asbestos-related illnesses. These rulings addressed the 20-50 year latency period of serious asbestos-related illnesses.\n\nIn this case a federal appeals court ruled that an insulation installer from Texas could sue asbestos manufactures for failure to warn. Borel's lawyers argued that had warning labels been affixed to Fiberboard's products he would have been able to protect himself more effectively.\n\nThe Manville Corporation, formerly the Johns-Manville Corporation, filed for reorganization and protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code in August 1982. At the time, it was the largest company ever to file bankruptcy, and was one of the richest. Manville was then 181st on the Fortune 500, but was the defendant of 16,500 lawsuits related to the health effects of asbestos. The company was described by Ron Motley, a South Carolina attorney, as \"the greatest corporate mass murderer in history.\" Court documents show that the corporation had a long history of hiding evidence of the ill effects of asbestos from its workers and the public. One of many examples is a memo from Manville's medical director to corporate headquarters:\n\nIn a decision from January 2014, \"Gray v. Garlock Sealing Technologies\" had entered into bankruptcy proceedings, and discovery in the case uncovered evidence of fraud that led to a reduction in estimated future liability to a tenth of what was estimated.\n\nA number of lawsuits have been filed under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) in response to what defendants claim to be fraudulent asbestos-related lawsuits. RICO suits are civil in nature and brought by private parties. They typically allege that the suits themselves are forms of racketeering or that lawyers and experts had to engage in racketeering activities in order to bring them.\n\nFor example,\n\nSome companies and their executives have faced criminal prosecution for their actions in exposing workers to the dangers of asbestos, or their improper handling of asbestos waste.\n\nOn February 20, 1973 a federal grand jury in Detroit, Michigan indicted Adamo Wrecking Company (\"Adamo\") for violating provisions of the Clean Air Act by knowingly causing the emission of asbestos by failure to wet and remove friable asbestos materials from demolitions.\n\nAdamo was one of a number of demolition contractors indicted throughout the country for the alleged violation of the Clean Air Act. The United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan dismissed the criminal indictment on the ground that it was not an \"emission standard,\" but a \"work practice standard,\" which under the terms of the statute, did not carry criminal liability.\n\nThe government appealed and the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decision of the trial court, stating that it erred in determining that it had jurisdiction to review the validity of the standard in a criminal proceeding. Adamo's attorneys appealed to the Supreme Court.\n\nOn January 10, 1978, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of Adamo when it held that the trial court did have jurisdiction to review the standard in a criminal proceeding and also agreed with the trial court that the requirements in the act were \"not standards\" but \"procedures\" and therefore the proceedings were properly dismissed.\n\nA federal grand jury indicted W. R. Grace and Company and seven top executives on February 5, 2005, for its operations of a vermiculite mine in Libby, Montana. The indictment accused Grace of wire fraud, knowing endangerment of residents by concealing air monitoring results, obstruction of justice by interfering with an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) investigation, violation of the Clean Air Act, providing asbestos materials to schools and local residents, and conspiracy to release asbestos and cover up health problems from asbestos contamination. The Department of Justice said 1,200 residents had developed asbestos-related diseases and some had died, and there could be many more injuries and deaths.\n\nOn June 8, 2006, a federal judge dismissed the conspiracy charge of \"knowing endangerment\" because some of the defendant officials had left the company before the five-year statute of limitations had begun to run. The wire fraud charge was dropped by prosecutors in March.\n\nOn April 2, 1998, three men were indicted in a conspiracy to use homeless men for illegal asbestos removal from an aging Wisconsin manufacturing plant. Then-US Attorney General Janet Reno said, \"Knowingly removing asbestos improperly is criminal. Exploiting the homeless to do this work is cruel.\"\n\nOn December 12, 2004, owners of New York asbestos abatement companies were sentenced to the longest federal jail sentences for environmental crimes in U.S. history, after they were convicted on 18 counts of conspiracy to violate the Clean Air Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act, and actual violations of the Clean Air Act and Racketeer-Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. The crimes involved a 10-year scheme to illegally remove asbestos. The RICO counts included obstruction of justice, money laundering, mail fraud and bid rigging, all related to the asbestos cleanup.\n\nOn January 11, 2006, San Diego Gas & Electric Co., two of its employees, and a contractor were indicted by a federal grand jury on charges that they violated safety standards while removing asbestos from pipes in Lemon Grove, California. The defendants were charged with five counts of conspiracy, violating asbestos work practice standards and making false statements.\n"}
{"id": "24291164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24291164", "title": "Barack Obama speech to joint session of Congress, September 2009", "text": "Barack Obama speech to joint session of Congress, September 2009\n\nUnited States President Barack Obama discussed his plan for health care reform in a speech delivered to a joint session of the 111th United States Congress on September 9, 2009 at 8:00 PM (EDT). The speech was delivered to Congress on the floor of the chamber of the United States House of Representatives in the United States Capitol. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi presided over the joint session and was accompanied by the President of the United States Senate, Joe Biden, the Vice President of the United States. Energy Secretary Steven Chu was chosen as the designated survivor and did not attend the speech.\n\nObama's speech addressed topics regarding the public health insurance option, private insurance reform, estimated costs and revenue, basic coverage for individuals and employers, as well as subsidies and waivers for those who can't afford coverage, and the importance of tort reform in bringing costs down. The President's speech lasted 47 minutes and contained 5,614 words. It was briefly interrupted by a cry of \"You lie!\" from Republican Rep. Joe Wilson, referring to a statement by Obama that his plan would not apply to illegal immigrants (discussed in more detail in the next section).\n\nObama quoted a letter sent to him from Ted Kennedy, who had died a few weeks earlier. Kennedy had composed the letter after he was diagnosed with terminal brain cancer, and requested that the letter be sent after he died. Quoting Kennedy's letter, Obama said, \"that what we face is above all a moral issue; that at stake are not just the details of policy, but fundamental principles of social justice and the character of our country.\"\n\nIn the quoted portions of his letter, Kennedy, a steadfast proponent of health care reform, also posed the question of what would happen if one knew treatment existed for a condition but one could not afford it.\n\nPresident Obama placed health care reform into a broader historical perspective, in which the nature and role of government has been the subject of historical debate, and compared his reform to Social Security and Medicare. He concluded his address by returning to Kennedy's theme of the \"character of our country\":\n\nI understand how difficult this health care debate has been. I know that many in this country are deeply skeptical that government is looking out for them. I understand that the politically safe move would be to kick the can further down the road - to defer reform one more year, or one more election, or one more term. But that's not what the moment calls for. That's not what we came here to do. We did not come to fear the future. We came here to shape it. I still believe we can act even when it's hard. I still believe we can replace acrimony with civility, and gridlock with progress. I still believe we can do great things, and that here and now we will meet history's test. Because that is who we are. That is our calling. That is our character.\n\nDuring the speech, the president discussed the health coverage of illegal immigrants, saying: \"There are also those who claim that our reform efforts would insure illegal immigrants. This, too, is false. The reforms I'm proposing would not apply to those who are here illegally.\" At this point, South Carolina Republican Rep. Joe Wilson yelled \"You lie!\", briefly interrupting the speech. Wilson later issued a statement apologizing for his outburst. On September 15, the House approved a \"resolution of disapproval\" (a reprimand as opposed to formal censure) against Wilson, on a near party-line 240-179 vote.\n\nThe outburst led to media coverage about the issue. Various sources noted that the House bill denies direct benefits, such as affordability credits, to illegal immigrants. Section 246 of the bill, titled \"NO FEDERAL PAYMENT FOR UNDOCUMENTED ALIENS,\" states: \"Nothing in this subtitle shall allow Federal payments for affordability credits on behalf of individuals who are not lawfully present in the United States.\" The bill did, however, require some to purchase health insurance who were not explicitly restricted from the proposed Health Insurance Exchange. The Obama administration later stated that, in the final bill, these people would not be able to participate in the Exchange. Specific language was subsequently included when the Senate healthcare-reform plan was introduced on September 16 which prohibits participation in the insurance exchange by persons not lawfully present in the U.S.\n\nThe official, post-speech Republican response was given by Congressman Charles Boustany of Louisiana, a former cardiothoracic surgeon.\n\nWith few notable exceptions, Congressional Republicans were silent as their Democratic colleagues applauded various points Obama made during the course of the speech. Republicans also held up copies of the health care bills in objection when Obama spoke and others laughed when Obama said that there are \"significant details\" to be worked out before a health overhaul can be passed.\n\nBBC News called Obama's health care speech \"one of the most important speeches of his presidency.\" \"The Economist\" called the speech a \"success on several measures\". Calling it a triumph of speech writing \"Time\" magazine praised the speech for its clarity, brevity and limited use of jargon. Other media outlets felt the speech was \"too little, too late\" to make a difference in the outcome of the health care debate.\n\nThe shares of health insurance companies advanced after analysts concluded that the proposal outlined by Obama as good news for healthcare investors. Citi analyst Charles Boorady was quoted as saying that he expected shares to rise further as passage of health care reform would expand enrollment in plans.\n\n"}
{"id": "41859948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41859948", "title": "Biopharm Australia", "text": "Biopharm Australia\n\nBiopharm Australia is an Australian pharmaceutical company. Founded in the 1980s, Biopharm Australia develops sulfated polysaccharides for use in veterinary medicine and has ongoing research and development commitments in osteoarthritis, musculoskeletal diseases and cancer.\n\nBiopharm Australia pioneered the veterinary development of sodium pentosan polysulfate as a disease modifying osteoarthritis drug (DMOAD) under the brand Cartrophen. The company invests heavily in the research and development of medicines that improve animal quality of life and strengthen the human-animal bond.\n\nBiopharm Australia was incorporated in 1987 in Sydney, Australia. It was established to advance healthy treatments for osteoarthritis. Biopharm Australia aim to improve animal health through the development and use of the best technology. \nCartrophen Vet is a sodium pentosan polysulfate for the treatment of osteoarthritis (OA) also known as the degenerative joint disease.\n\nIn the late 1980s Biopharm Australia began collaborating on osteoarthritis treatments. It was registered under licence in Australia as Anarthron. In 1989 Cartrophen Vet was registered in Australia and New Zealand in 1989, Biopharm Australia achieved registrations in the 1990s in Europe and North America including United Kingdom, Ireland, Finland and Canada.\n\nIn the 2000s Cartrophen Vet was registered in Austria*, Belgium*, Denmark, Germany, France*, the Netherlands*, Sweden and Japan. \nThe horse equivalent product Cartrophen Equine Forte was registered in New Zealand and the United Arab Emirates.\n\nIn the early 2010s Cartrophen Equine Forte was registered in Australia. \nAt the same time Biopharm’s product Cartrophen Vet achieved registrations in Poland, Norway, Iceland, Switzerland*, Argentina and Chile.\n\n2017: Cartrophen Vet is registered in 20 countries including\nAustralia, New Zealand, United Kingdom, Ireland, Finland, Canada, Austria*, Belgium*, Denmark, Germany, France*, the Netherlands*, Sweden, Japan, Poland, Norway, Iceland, Switzerland*, Brazil, Argentina and Chile\n\n2014: Cartrophen Equine Forte is registered in Australia, New Zealand and the United Arab Emirates.\n\n[*Cartrophen Vet is registered as Anarthron in these countries]\n\nCartrophen products are for the treatment of non-infectious inflammatory joint disease in dogs and horses. \nBiopharm's testing laboratories are licensed by the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA). The TGA is the official inspection service for veterinary products. The TGA is internationally recognized under mutual recognition agreement e.g. with the EEC.\n\nCartrophen Vet is approved for use in dogs in all countries where registered and is also approved for use in horses only in Australia, New Zealand, Argentina and Chile. It contains 100 mg/mL sodium pentosan polysulfate.\n\nIt contains 250 mg/mL of sodium pentosan polysulafte and is approved in Australia, New Zealand and the United Arab Emirates.\n"}
{"id": "33647067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33647067", "title": "Canadian Association of Gastroenterology", "text": "Canadian Association of Gastroenterology\n\nThe Canadian Association of Gastroenterology (CAG) was founded in 1962 to promote the study of the digestive tract in health and disease. The Association is built on broad principles and includes individuals of different disciplines (physicians, surgeons, paediatricians, radiologists, basic scientists). Today, the Association comprises more than 1,100 members. CAG members are actively involved in research, education and patient care in all areas of digestive health and disease, contributing to the economic and social health of all Canadians. The Canadian Digestive Health Foundation is the foundation of the CAG.\n\n"}
{"id": "31584841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31584841", "title": "Childbirth in Sri Lanka", "text": "Childbirth in Sri Lanka\n\nIssues and practices related to childbirth in Sri Lanka are influenced by the sociocultural composition, political history and violence within the country.\n\nSri Lanka is a small island nation in the Indian Ocean, off the southeast coast of India. The island is characterized by a tropical monsoon climate that is divided into the northeast monsoon (December to March) and southwest monsoon (June to October). The terrain is mostly low, flat to rolling fertile plains. Highlands with deep valleys exist in the central-southern interior of the country. Nearly one-third of Sri Lanka's total land mass is covered by natural vegetation, however much of it has been depleted due to intensive agricultural practices.\n\nThe Sinhalese, who likely migrated from southern India, are first people known to inhabit Sri Lanka. It is commonly believed that they arrived in the 5th century BC. Near 300 BC, there is evidence that Tamil people began to migrate from Southern India to the island now known as Sri Lanka. The Portuguese discovered the island largely by accident in 1505 CE and established their first trading settlement in 1517. The Portuguese briefly controlled the coastal areas of the island, followed by the Dutch in the 17th century. With these colonizers came the introduction of Roman Catholic missionaries who sought to convert Sinhalese and Tamil people to Catholicism. By March 1815, the island was formally united under British rule Throughout the 19th century, the British brought Tamil workers from Southern India to staff the growing number of rubber and tea plantations. The people of the island gained independence from the British in 1948 and formed the nation of Ceylon. The official name was changed to Sri Lanka in 1972, when Buddhism was named the primary religion of the country.\n\nThroughout the late 20th century and into the 21st century, Sri Lanka remained a country wrought with turmoil and war. Increasing Sinhalese nationalism led to disenfranchisement of the Tamil minority. Beginning in 1983 and lasting nearly three decades, brutally violent armed conflicts took place between the pro-independent militant Tamil group, named Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE), and the Sinhalese dominant Sri Lankan government force. These years were characterized by civil unrest, violence, guerrilla attacks, acts of terrorism and conventional warfare. During the conflict, Northern and Eastern provinces served as primary battlefields. It is estimated that more than 60,000 people were killed in the conflict. A ceasefire was signed in 2002, but mostly ignored and officially rejected by the Sri Lankan government in 2008. The Sri Lankan government declared victory over the LTTE in May 2009 with the death of rebel leader Velupillai Prabhakaran.\n\nReligion is a vibrant part of Sri Lankan culture. The predominant religions are Buddhism, Hindu, Muslim and Christianity. Buddhism was introduced sometime between 250-210 BC, and became the official religion of Sri Lanka in 1972. The 1978 constitution grants primacy to Buddhism, while also ensuring freedom of religion for all citizens. Throughout Sri Lanka's long history, Buddhism has remained an active part of the culture. Nearly 70% of the population is Buddhist. Due to the extensive conflict and war in the northern and eastern provinces, data regarding religious affiliation is variable. The national census states that 8% of the population identified as Muslim, 7% as Hindu, 6% as Christian, and the remaining 10% were unspecified. The majority of Sri Lankan Muslims practice Sunni Islam. Sizable minorities of both Sinhalese and Tamils identify as Christians, most of whom are Roman Catholic.\n\nSri Lanka is governed within the framework of a presidential representative democratic republic. In this multi-party system the president is the head of state, head of government and the commander of the armed forces. The long-standing conflict between the majority Sinhalese and the Tamil minority is apparent within the political structure. Both the president and prime minister are members of the socialist Sri Lanka Freedom Party. The party was founded in 1951, and generally represents the interests of the nationalist Sinhala parties. The primary opposition party is the conservative United National Party. In 1959, Sri Lanka was led by Sirimavo Bandaranaike, the world's first female chief executive. Mahinda Rajapaksa became president in 2005 and was re-elected in January, 2010, two years before the end of his term.\n\nSri Lanka's gross domestic product (GDP) per capita is $4,900 USD with an annual growth rate estimated at 8%. The average annual income is $964 USD and about 6% of the population lives below $1 USD per day. In 2001, the country faced bankruptcy when national debt overtook GDP. Crisis was averted when the government gathered international loans after a ceasefire was signed with the LTTE.\n\nIn 2009, a third of Sri Lankans worked in agriculture, a fourth in industry and the remainder primarily worked in services jobs. Four percent of males are unemployed. Women are becoming increasingly active in the job market and female unemployment has dropped from 22% in 1993, to 8% in 2009. The primary economic sectors include tourism, textiles, clothing manufacture, agricultural products and exportation of tea, apparel, gemstones and rubber.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, there has not been a comprehensive national population census completed since 1981. The 2001 national census did not include vital information from conflict areas of the northern and eastern parts of the country. Due to the ongoing violence in Sri Lanka, most demographic data available is estimated based on 1981 or 2001 data, and variation exists among data sources. The CIA World Factbook lists Sri Lanka's current population as 20,653,913 persons. Considering the island is only , it is a very densely populated nation. Over 85% of the population live in non-urban environments. The largest city is Colombo, with a population of 1,819,777. Sri Lanka is occupied by several ethnic groups. The Sinhalese are the predominant ethnic group (74%), followed by Sri Lankan Tamils (13%), Indian Tamils (5%) and Moors (Muslim) (7%). Sinhala is the national language and is the predominant language spoken by 74% of the population. Most Tamils and Moors speak Tamil, part of the South Indian linguistic group. Due to the extensive conflict between Sri Lankan government and Tamil separatists that took place in the late 20th and early 21st centuries, several hundred thousand Tamil citizens fled their homes in conflict zones and were placed in government run camps for internally displaced persons (IDPs), or sought refuge in other countries. The total number of displaced persons is unknown, though in 1994 it was estimated over 500,000 people were displaced internally and more than 200,000 people fled internationally.\n\nSince 2009, considerable effort has been made to relocate the hundreds of thousand IDPs from government camps. When forced to flee conflict zones, most IDPs left behind their homes, assets, and tools necessary for their livelihoods. The Sri Lankan government reported that rations were provided for families selected for resettlement from IDP camps. These rations included agricultural tool kits, dry rations, an initial payment of Rs. 5,000 (est. $44 USD), a shelter grant of Rs. 25,000 (est. $219 USD), roofing sheets, provision of rice seed, fertilizer and transportation. Even in resettled communities, many people continue to face insecurity and poverty. As of February 2011, nearly 17,500 people continue to live at Menik Farm, Sri Lanka's largest camp for IDPs. Recent reports claim that the government hopes to resettle all conflict-displaced people by the end of 2011. Rebuilding infrastructure in northern and eastern provinces affected by war is an ongoing task.\n\nSri Lanka's education system is state funded, and offered free of charge at all levels, including the university level. Schooling is compulsory for children from 5 to 13 years of age. The national literacy rate is 91%. The reported literacy rate of the urban population is 93%, 92% of the rural population and 75% of the estate population. The literacy rate among women is 89%. Nearly 70% of the population is educated beyond the 9th grade.\n\nConsidering the low annual income and many years of internal conflict, Sri Lanka's health indicators are stronger than those of many other developing countries. According to the Kaiser Family Foundation's Global Health Database, 90% of Sri Lankans have access to water and 91% have access to sanitation. An estimated 2,800 people are living with HIV/AIDS, and 20,000 are living with tuberculosis. The life expectancy at birth is 74 years of age. Health services are provided to Sri Lankan citizens free of charge and over 93% of the population has access to basic health care. The national prevalence of anemia among school children is about 12%. About one third of Sri Lankan children are undernourished (BMI-for age below the 5th percentile for age and sex). Children in the northern and eastern provinces have a much higher proportion of health problems when compared to children living in other provinces.\n\nSri Lanka has an extensive network of health care institutions. The health system consists of both the state and private sector. State health services include preventative, curative and rehabilitative health services. Health services are organized and delivered through the Department of Health Services and the Provincial Health Sector. The Sri Lankan health system incorporates Western, Ayurvedic and Homeopathic medicine. The Ministry of Health oversees national health services. Eight Provincial Directors of Health Services are responsible for the management and implementation of health services within each province. These services include provincial, base, district and rural hospitals, maternity homes and outpatient facilities. Each province is divided into geographical areas, with a defined population, who are served by a Medical Officers of Health (MOH). Within each MOH area, a team of field level health workers, including Public Health Nurses (PHN), Public Health Inspector (PHI) and Public Health Midwives (PHM), work with a Medical Officer to deliver health care services at a community level. The PHM are responsible for delivering antenatal, natal and postnatal services in hospitals, community health centers and in patient's homes. Several different types of health care facilities exist and patients may choose where they receive services.\n\nSri Lanka's achievements in maternal health and family planning are perceived as a success. In the 1930s, Sri Lanka's maternal mortality ratio (MMR) was 2,000 deaths per 100,000 live births. Recognizing this as a national problem, the government implemented programs to improve infrastructure, education, sanitation and health systems in poor and under-served areas. Simultaneously, there was an improvement in maternal health services and extensive training of, and improved community access to, Public Health Nurse-Midwives. Maternal care now encompasses antenatal care, intrapartum and postnatal care. These strategies enabled Sri Lanka to reduce the MMR by half every 6–12 years between 1930 and 1995. In 2002, the MMR was 43 per 100,000 live births. The estimated total fertility rate is 2.2 births per woman and population growth rate is 0.93%. The infant mortality rate was 11.2 per 1000 live births in 2003. The contraceptive prevalence rate was 70%; the infant mortality rate was 10.2 for female infants and 12.9 for male infants per 1,000 live births.\n\nIn 1927, the midwifery services in the Colombo municipality were re-organized to include training of all midwives working in the municipality. Since then, PHM training has continued expand and follow a standardized course. By 1958, about 58% of the births were attended by a skilled birth attendant, of which 25% were deliveries in the home by a PHM. Since the 1950s the number of institutional (maternity home or hospital) deliveries has continued to increase, and in 2001, 92% of all deliveries took place in institutions.\n\nMany years of ethnic conflict have led to separation between the various ethnic and religious groups who inhabit Sri Lanka. Women in living in the conflict zones of northern and eastern Sri Lanka experience worse maternal outcomes compared to national averages. Research conducted in the areas found significantly higher levels of poverty in conflict zones. On a national level, the proportion of the population living in poverty was 22.7%, but in the district of Amapara, nearly 65% of the population was living in poverty in 2002.\n\nYoung people living in conflict areas have higher rates of school drop-out, marry earlier and become pregnant earlier than young people in other parts of the country. Women in these areas face especially poor health outcomes These women are also subject to higher rates of domestic violence and many women report that their husbands force them to have sexual intercourse. Women in these areas have reduced access to contraception, and this may increase pregnancies in conflict zones. The total rate of fertility in conflict zones is 2.6 live births per woman while the national average is 2.2 live births per woman.\n\nLack of basic health infrastructure combined with shortages of health professionals has severely limited reproductive health services in the northern and eastern provinces. They have extremely limited access to emergency obstetric care, increased rates of maternal morbidity and mortality, and higher rates of low birth weight babies.\nWhile the national rates of home birth are very low, one out of five women in conflict areas birth at home. In some districts, such as Batticaloa, as many as 41% of women give birth at home. Primary reasons for home births are: destruction of health centers, danger of travel, lack of transportation and poverty. The national PHM program virtually eliminated traditional birth attendants in Sri Lanka, but when women are forced to birth at home they may have the assistance of a traditional medicine woman, known as \"Marauthuvivhvhi\". These birth attendants use home remedies, such as powders, herbs, oils and an herbal drink called \"perunkayam\" to support the woman through birth. These factors increase the risk involved with childbirth and highlight the needs of women living in the northern and eastern provinces of Sri Lanka.\n\nUnlike other Asian countries, Sri Lankan women have had equal access to education for many years and men and women enjoy similar rates of literacy. In other countries women's increased access to education and increased presence in the workforce has delayed the age of marriage, but these factors are less influential in Sri Lanka. Typically, Sri Lankans marry later than people in other Asian countries. In 1961, the average age of marriage was 22 years old, and today the average age of marriage is 25 years old in Sri Lanka. Muslim women marry earlier than Sinhalese and Tamil women. School attendance is believed to delay the age of marriage because women in school are not considered adults and are not ready for marriage. Birth order also influences age of marriage. Women with unmarried older sisters tend to marry later because of the tradition that women should marry in their birth order. Women who have arranged marriages typically marry later than those who choose their own husbands.\n\nInfertility is a deeply distressing issue among Sri Lankan couples. In the Sinhalese culture, birth is the sign of a successful marriage and rituals are performed if a woman does not conceive during the early years of marriage. Often the couple and family members will make vows at a religious shrine and seek blessings from monks to help with conception. When a woman has a difficult time becoming pregnant, some people believe it is caused by misdeeds that took place in a previous lifetime. Performing virtuous deeds in the present life can help neutralize these deeds. Examples of beneficial acts include giving money to monks, beggars or children in need, lighting lamps or bathing the foot of a sacred Bo-tree with water or milk.\n\nA cultural issue arises when considering sperm donation among Buddhists. While donation of blood or body products are considered virtuous giving of one's self, semen is a very different matter. In Aruvedic medicine, semen is \"considered the highest of substances\" and \"loss of such a powerful substance is widely held to have a number of consequences such as anxiety, mental impairment, and impotence. Some physicians expressed concerns about the risk of potential mix-ups of sperm in in-vitro fertilization, fearing \"children with such origins might experience a deep and troubling sense of strangeness towards a father who is not biologically related whilst expressing a desire to establish the genitor's real identity.\". Because sperm donation involves ejaculation, which has origins in \"physical pleasure for which there can be no justification in Buddhism,\" acquiring donor sperm is often a difficult task. Monetary incentives cannot be used because the purchase of human tissue, including gametes, is illegal ).\n\nEven though the government has actively encouraged family planning, Sri Lankans still regard pregnancy as a blessing and birth is a symbol of a successful marriage. Pregnancy outside of marriage is very rare in Sri Lanka. Culturally it is important that a woman remains a virgin until marriage. Single mothers do not receive government-based aid. Children born to unwed mothers are often labeled as illegitimate and considered outcasts in society.\n\nWhen husbands learn their wife is pregnant, they make a vow to perform the \"Ratrayakuma\" ritual. This ritual, which involves hanging a pot containing coins, a betel leaf and flowers from the rafters, is done to appease the evil spirit Rata Yaka, who is believed to prevent successful child bearing and delivery. During a first pregnancy, couples often visit temples of special significance in the Buddhist faith. Examples of such temples are Temple of the Tooth in Kandy or the Sacred Bodhi tree at Anuradhapura. At the temple they pray for the pregnancy and ask for an uncomplicated birth and healthy life. They make vows to ensure their wishes are granted. If their wishes are granted, they return to the temple or shrine to make offerings of praise to the Gods who protected their newborn child and mother during pregnancy and birth.\n\nDuring pregnancy, family members take care to please the pregnant mother and protect her, and her unborn child, by relieving her of household duties. The pregnant woman's mother, grandmother or mother-in-law supervises meals. While pregnant, women may experience \"Doladuka\", or suffering of two hearts. This experience includes unusual desires to eat particularly sour fruits or indulge in specific acts. These wishes must be fulfilled to protect the fetus from physical or mental defects. Pregnant women avoid eating twinned foods as they are thought to lead to the birth of twins. Relatives and friends visit often to give gifts of fruits and boiled rice with curry wrapped in a banana leaf. Traditionally, baby showers are considered bad luck and gifts are not given until after the birth of the child. When preparing clothing for the new baby, care is taken to never complete the garment before the birth of the baby, as this assumes the birth is a certainty.\n\nIn the last three months of pregnancy, it is typical for women move their parents’ home and stay a few weeks after the delivery to recover and receive care. This practice is especially common among first time mothers. During this time, Buddhist monks are invited to the home to chant blessings and expel evil spirits who might harm the woman and fetus.\n\nThe PHM provides prenatal care to women at home visits and in health clinics. These visits include blood pressure screening, measurement of weight and education related to nutritional needs during pregnancy. A PHM registers all pregnant women, and most are registered in the first trimester of pregnancy. Nearly every pregnant woman (98.5%) receives antenatal care. According to Demographic and Health Survey 2000, 95% of women visited a clinic at least once during pregnancy and 84% had a midwife visit her home. Most women receive six or more home visits by the PHM during pregnancy. Only a very small percent of pregnant women receive fewer than three visits by a PHM. Women typically receive one visit during the first trimester, then two to three visits additional during each of the second and third trimesters.\n\nCurrently little information exists regarding extrinsic factors that may affect pregnancy, such as air, water, food and drink. This is an area for additional research.\n\nSkilled birth attendants attend more than 97% of births In Sri Lanka. Nearly all births (99%) take place in a hospital or maternity home and are assisted by a physician or PHM. All first pregnancies and high-risk pregnancies are referred to a health facility staffed by an obstetrician. Most women give birth vaginally, but the incidence of cesarean section, or C-section, is rising. In 1986, the rate of C-section was 9% and by 1999, the rate rose to 14.4% of births in government hospitals. Currently, 66% of births are spontaneous vaginal deliveries, 4% are operative vaginal deliveries and 30% are by C-section. It is hypothesized that the increase in C-sections is due to a variety of factors, including increased use of epidural anesthesia and fetal monitoring.\n\nLittle information is known about actual practices in Sri Lanka, but the Sri Lankan College of Obstetric Gynecology (SLCOG) publishes national guidelines for management of certain conditions of pregnancy.\n\nSLCOG defines normal labor as \"spontaneous onset, low-risk at the start and remaining low risk throughout the process\". Normal labor results in a birth between 37 and 42 weeks gestation and the fetus is delivered from a vertex presentation. Once a woman is determined to be in uncomplicated labor, confirmed by vaginal examination and painful contractions, she is transferred to the labor suite of the hospital or maternity home. While routine enemas are not recommended, SLCOG does emphasize that \"efforts must be make to minimize fecal soiling…to overcome the practical difficulties associated with cleaning and maintaining sterility\". Low risk women are allowed to consume clear fluids during early labor, but must consult an anesthesiologist first. SLCOG recommends that maternal preference be honored when considering mobility and posture during labor. The organization recommends standing and lateral recumbent positioning to minimize reductions in uterine blood supply and reductions in cardiac output. Intermittent fetal heart auscultation and observation of vaginal discharge is used to assess the fetal condition. A partogram is recommended to facilitate monitoring during labor. During the second stage of labor, women are encouraged to assume the most comfortable position. In the second stage of labor fetal heart rate should be assessed every 15 minutes and the fetal heart rate should be assessed after each contraction while bearing down. Active management of labor with oxytocin is recommended in the third stage of labor. Medio-lateral episiotomies are recommended to expedite delivery or prevent perineal injury. Once the neonate is delivered, the umbilical cord is clamped and cut, controlled cord traction should be applied. It is recommended that the placenta, membranes and umbilical cord are examined for abnormalities after delivery. After delivery, women should be monitored for complication for two hours in the labor suite.\n\nManagement of preterm rupture of membranes involves either expectant or active management. The classification depends on maturity of the fetus, neonatal facilities available at the place of birth, presence of infection and fetal distress. Expectant management involves general observation of vital signs and fetal observations, including kick count, presentation, daily electronic fetal monitoring and weekly ultrasound. Active management beyond 32 weeks gestational age involves administration of corticosteroids, antibiotics and awaiting active labor. If active labor does not begin within 24 hours, delivery is advised.\n\nGenerally, Sri Lankan women prefer to give birth without pharmacologic pain management. SLCOG recommends that birthing women be provided with adequate analgesia and the selection of pain relief is determined by institutional protocols, drug availability and patient preference. Pethidine is the most common drug used for pain management during labor, especially in maternity units where clinicians with advanced medical training and monitoring facilities may not be present. During C-sections, 80% of women receive spinal anesthesia, 15% epidural and 5% general anesthesia. Non-pharmacologic pain management includes breathing techniques, hot and cold therapy, massage, relaxation techniques, acupuncture, herbalism and hypnosis. Women often recite \"pirith\" to control breathing during labor. This is a chant performed by monks during pregnancy to ensure safe delivery.\n\nCurrently little information exists regarding extrinsic factors that affect birth, such as air, water, food and drink. This is an area for additional research.\n\nEvery birth should be registered with the government to obtain a birth certificate which act as the main legal document for a citizen in Sri Lanka. The name of the child (which is given by the parent), details of the mother and the father will be entered in the birth certificate. The birth certificate will be required to obtain the National Identity Card, Passport and many more legal activities. An application form should be obtained from Divisional Secretariat and proceed with the registration.\n\nThe specific date and time of birth are carefully recorded to determine a child's horoscope. The time of birth determines the zodiac sign, and also specific character traits of the child. The horoscope is significant throughout the lifecycle. It is read by an astrologer at birth, puberty, prior to an examination or new job, when determining if a potential spouse is a good match, or for any other important decision.\n\nThe postpartum time is not clearly defined; however the puerperium period is defined as the first six weeks in the postpartum period. Most women who deliver vaginally spend one night in a health institution, while about 5% return home the day of delivery. Women who deliver by C-section typically spend seven nights in the health institution before returning home.\n\nSri Lanka does not have a system to record maternal morbidity, but research suggests maternal morbidity is an area of concern among Sri Lankan mothers. Sri Lankan mothers generally feel that it is natural to experience ill health after childbirth. About 90% of women who deliver vaginally and 75% women who deliver by C-section report illness in the puerperium period. Examples of these illnesses include excessive bleeding, fever, constipation, breast engorgement, painful urination, backache and abdominal pain. Buddhist mothers have the highest incidence of illness while Muslim mothers had the fewest number of poor health outcomes after birth.\n\nNewborn rites of passage vary among ethnic group. Sinhalese, Tamil and Muslim families publicly announce the birth of a child as a gesture of accepting the newborn as a member of the family. This may be a casual or grand celebration and often involves food, dancing and singing.\n\nThe exact time of birth is reported to an astrologer who uses the child's horoscope to determine the best letters for the child's name. \"Nam tebima\" is the Sinhalese naming ceremony. The baby's first outing is typically to a Buddhist temple on a full moon day to receive blessings for a prosperous life. \"Idul kata gema\" is the ceremony to celebrate a baby's first solid food. The ceremony, which takes place either in the family home or in a temple, involves placing dishes of rice boiled with milk, traditional sweets, a banana, a book and a piece of jewelry. The family observes as the baby is allowed to crawl onto the mat and select an item. If the child chooses the food, he or she will have a healthy appetite for life, if the child chooses the book he or she will have a future in academia, and if the child chooses the jewelry he or she has a promise of fortune and success.\n\nThe name-giving ceremony, \"Namakarana samskar\", typically takes place 11–41 days after birth. During this ceremony the baby's father whispers the new name in the infant's right ear. It is typical to celebrate a baby's first consumption of solid food when a child receives his or her first taste of rice. The ceremony typically occurs in a \"kovil\", or Hindu temple. The meal of boiled rice usually occurs between six and eight months of age. Other childhood rituals include the \"Chudakarana samskara\", or head-shaving ceremony, which represents purity and removes all remnants of birth pollution. This event marks the end of infancy and the beginning of childhood. \"Karnavedhna Samskara\" is the name of the ear piercing ceremony that typically takes place either in a temple or at home on the first birthday.\n\nMuslim boys are circumcised between the ages of seven days and ten years. Some communities circumcise males as neonates, while others believe the child should be old enough to understand the significance of the event. Traditionally, a community member performed circumcisions in the boy's home, though some families now have the procedure done in a medical center. The celebration includes new clothes for the boy and a special meal prepared for family and friends.\n\nBreastfeeding is a culturally accepted and encouraged practice in Sri Lanka. The rate of breastfeeding initiation is nearly 100%. In Sri Lanka, public health officials recommend exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months of a child's life. PHM and medical officers of health provide pre-and post-natal counseling and education to support women in breastfeeding practices. In 2000, 54% of women breastfed exclusively for the first four months of life. Little data exists to determine rate of exclusive breastfeeding at six months of age, but it is believed that very few mothers breastfeed exclusively until their newborn reaches six months of age. A study that integrated low cost staff training with job supervision of PHM showed a significant increase in exclusive breastfeeding among mothers in Beruwala, Sri Lanka. The authors believe that six months exclusive breastfeeding is a realistic goal in Sri Lanka and suggest a need to increase training and support for PHM in maternal health care settings.\n\nNo information exists on the current rates of male or female circumcision in Sri Lanka. Generally, these are not common procedures among Buddhist and Hindu populations. Male circumcision is practiced among Muslims and is traditionally an occasion for celebration.\n\nContraception is widely used in Sri Lanka, though generally considered a women's issue. The country has a vasectomy rate of 3.7% and many people believe vasectomy inhibits men from performing hard labor. In 1979, to increase the use of vasectomy in family planning, the Sri Lankan government began offering monetary incentives to men who agreed to undergo the procedure. Financial payment was the often primary reason for obtaining a vasectomy. Many Sri Lankan couples discuss the need for contraception to limit family size and space pregnancies. More than two thirds of the married population use some form of contraception. Generally, husbands support the use of female contraception. In 1993, nearly one fourth of married women were sterilized, however the prevalence of female sterilization fell to 17% of ever-married women by 2007. Women feel it is important to use a method of contraception approved by their husbands. This information guides the need to educate both men and women about contraceptive options, use and side effects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51522180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51522180", "title": "Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations", "text": "Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations\n\nThe Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, is a \"public-private coalition that aims to derail epidemics by speeding up the development of vaccines\"\n\nThe concept is to develop early phases of vaccines without knowing the details for the form in which the infection will appear, but will still cut down the time to tailor the eventual vaccine to be effective to the epidemic.\n\nIts plan includes preparations for possible outbreaks of Lassa fever, Marburg fever, Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS), SARS, Nipah virus, Rift Valley fever, chikungunya, and others. It is being funded by the Wellcome Trust, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the World Economic Forum, the governments of Norway, Germany, Japan and India.\nAs of April 2018, it has invested $37.5 million in Austria-based Themis Bioscience and $56 million in US-based Inovio Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to develop vaccine candidates against Lassa fever and MERS.\n\nThey published a study in the Lancet in 2018 which estimated the costs of developing vaccines for diseases that could escalate into global humanitarian crises. They focused on 11 diseases which cause relatively few deaths at present and primarily strike the poor. They estimated that it would cost between $2.8 billion and $3.7 billion to develop at least one vaccine for each of them. This should be set against the potential cost of an outbreak. The 2003 SARS outbreak in East Asia cost $54 billion.\n"}
{"id": "16745263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16745263", "title": "Corpulence index", "text": "Corpulence index\n\nThe Corpulence Index (CI) or Ponderal Index (PI) is a measure of leanness (corpulence) of a person calculated as a relationship between mass and height.\nIt was first proposed in 1921 as the \"Corpulence measure\" by Swiss physician Fritz Rohrer and hence is also known as Rohrer's Index. It is similar to the body mass index, but the mass is normalized with the third power of body height rather than the second power.\nwith formula_2 in kilograms and formula_3 in meters, giving a measure with the same dimensions as density. The corpulence index yields valid results even for very short and very tall persons. Because of this property, it is most commonly used in pediatrics. (For a baby, one can take crown-heel length for the height.) The normal values for infants are about twice as high as for adults, which is the result of their relatively short legs. It does not need to be adjusted for age after adolescence. It has also been shown to have a lower false positive rate in athletes.\n\nThe corpulence index is variously defined (the first definition should be preferred due to the use of SI-units \"kg\" and \"m\") as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "362930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=362930", "title": "Diacetyl", "text": "Diacetyl\n\nDiacetyl (IUPAC systematic name: butanedione or butane-2,3-dione) is an organic compound with the chemical formula (CHCO). It is a yellow or green liquid with an intensely buttery flavor. It is a vicinal diketone (two C=O groups, side-by-side) with the molecular formula CHO. Diacetyl occurs naturally in alcoholic beverages and is added to some foods to impart its buttery flavor.\n\nA distinctive feature of diacetyl (and other 1,2-diketones) is the long C–C bond linking the carbonyl centers. This bond distance is about 1.54 Å, compared to 1.45 Å for the corresponding C–C bond in 1,3-butadiene. The elongation is attributed to repulsion between the polarized carbonyl carbon centers.\n\nDiacetyl arises naturally as a byproduct of fermentation. In some fermentative bacteria, it is formed via the thiamine pyrophosphate-mediated condensation of pyruvate and acetyl CoA. Sour (cultured) cream, cultured buttermilk, and cultured butter are produced by inoculating pasteurized cream or milk with a lactic starter culture, churning (agitating) and holding the milk until a desired pH drop (or increase in acidity) is attained. Cultured cream, cultured butter, and cultured buttermilk owe their tart flavour to lactic acid bacteria and their buttery aroma and taste to diacetyl.\n\nDiacetyl is produced industrially by dehydrogenation of 2,3-butanediol. Acetoin is an intermediate.\n\nDiacetyl and acetoin are two compounds that give butter its characteristic taste. Because of this, manufacturers of artificial butter flavoring, margarines or similar oil-based products typically add diacetyl and acetoin (along with beta-carotene for the yellow color) to make the final product butter-flavored, because it would otherwise be relatively tasteless.\n\nDiacetyl is used as a flavoring agent in some liquids used in electronic cigarettes and people nearby may be exposed to it in the exhaled aerosol at levels near the limit set for occupational exposure.\n\nAt low levels, diacetyl contributes a slipperiness to the feel of the alcoholic beverage in the mouth. As levels increase, it imparts a buttery or butterscotch flavor.\n\nIn some styles of beer (e.g. in many beer styles produced in the United Kingdom, such as stouts, English bitters, and Scottish ales), the presence of diacetyl can be acceptable or desirable at low or, in some cases, moderate levels. In other styles, its presence is considered a flaw or undesirable.\n\nDiacetyl is produced during fermentation as a byproduct of valine synthesis, when yeast produces α-acetolactate, which escapes the cell and is spontaneously decarboxylated into diacetyl. The yeast then absorbs the diacetyl, and reduces the ketone groups to form acetoin and 2,3-butanediol.\n\nBeer sometimes undergoes a \"diacetyl rest\", in which its temperature is raised slightly for two or three days after fermentation is complete, to allow the yeast to absorb the diacetyl it produced earlier in the fermentation cycle. The makers of some wines, such as chardonnay, deliberately promote the production of diacetyl because of the feel and flavor it imparts. Diacetyl is present in some chardonnays known as \"butter bombs\", although there is a trend back toward the more traditional French styles.\n\nConcentrations from 0.005 mg/L to 1.7 mg/L were measured in chardonnay wines, and the amount needed for the flavor to be noticed is at least 0.2 mg/L.\n\nThe United States National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health has suggested diacetyl, when used in artificial butter flavoring (as used in many consumer foods), may be hazardous when heated and inhaled over a long period.\n\nWorkers in several factories that manufacture artificial butter flavoring have been diagnosed with bronchiolitis obliterans, a rare and serious disease of the lungs. The cases found have been mainly in young, healthy, nonsmoking males. As with other end-stage lung diseases, transplantation is currently the most viable treatment option. However, lung transplant rejection is very common and happens to be another setting in which bronchiolitis obliterans is known to occur.\n\nThe disease has been called \"popcorn worker's lung\" because it was first seen in former workers of a microwave popcorn factory in Missouri, but NIOSH refers to it by the more general term \"flavorings-related lung disease\". It has also been called \"flavorings-related bronchiolitis obliterans\" or diacetyl-induced bronchiolitis obliterans. People who work with flavorings that include diacetyl are at risk for flavorings-related lung disease, including those who work in popcorn factories, restaurants, other snack food factories, bakeries, candy factories, margarine and cooking spread factories, and coffee processing facilities.\n\nIn 2006, the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and the United Food and Commercial Workers petitioned the U.S. OSHA to promulgate an emergency temporary standard to protect workers from the deleterious health effects of inhaling diacetyl vapors. The petition was followed by a letter of support signed by more than 30 prominent scientists. The matter is under consideration. On January 21, 2009, OSHA issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking for regulating exposure to diacetyl. The notice requests respondents to provide input regarding adverse health effects, methods to evaluate and monitor exposure, the training of workers. That notice also solicited input regarding exposure and health effects of acetoin, acetaldehyde, acetic acid and furfural.\n\nTwo bills in the California Legislature seek to ban the use of diacetyl.\n\nA 2010 U.S. OSHA Safety and Health Information Bulletin and companion Worker Alert recommend employers use safety measures to avoid exposing employees to the potentially deadly effects of butter flavorings and other flavoring substances containing diacetyl or its substitutes.\n\nA preliminary \"in vitro\" study, published in 2012, suggests that diacetyl may exacerbate the effects of beta-amyloid aggregation, a process linked to Alzheimer's disease. Research in rats and mice has shown that diacetyl can damage the airway and damage cells that line the airway.\n\nIn 2015 there were allegations that the health of workers who roast coffee is threatened by diacetyl.\n\nIn 2007, the Flavor and Extract Manufacturers Association recommended reducing diacetyl in butter flavorings. Manufacturers of butter flavored popcorn including Pop Weaver, Trail's End, and ConAgra Foods (maker of Orville Redenbacher's and Act II) began removing diacetyl as an ingredient from their products.\n\nIn 2012, Wayne Watson, a regular microwavable popcorn consumer for years, was awarded US$7.27 million in damages from a federal jury in Denver, which decided his lung disease was caused by the chemicals in microwave popcorn and that the popcorn's manufacturer, Gilster-Mary Lee Corporation, and the grocery store that sold it should have warned him of its dangers.\n\nThe European Commission has declared diacetyl is legal for use as a flavouring substance in all EU states. As a diketone, diacetyl is included in the EU's flavouring classification Flavouring Group Evaluation 11 (FGE.11). A Scientific Panel of the EU Commission evaluated six flavouring substances (not including diacetyl) from FGE.11 in 2004. As part of this study, the panel reviewed available studies on several other flavourings in FGE.11, including diacetyl. Based on the available data, the panel reiterated the finding that there were no safety concerns for diacetyl's use as a flavouring.\n\nIn 2007, the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA), the EU's food safety regulatory body, stated its scientific panel on food additives and flavourings (AFC) was evaluating diacetyl along with other flavourings as part of a larger study.\n\nIn 2016, Diacetyl was banned in eliquids / ecigarettes in the EU under the EU Tobacco Products Directive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "338189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=338189", "title": "Diaphragm (birth control)", "text": "Diaphragm (birth control)\n\nThe diaphragm is a barrier method of birth control. It is moderately effective, with a one-year failure rate of around 12% with typical use. It is placed over the cervix with spermicide before sex and left in place for at least six hours after sex. Fitting by a healthcare provider is generally required.\nSide effects are usually very few. Use may increase the risk of bacterial vaginosis and urinary tract infections. If left in the vagina for more than 24 hours toxic shock syndrome may occur. While use may decrease the risk of sexually transmitted infections, it is not very effective at doing so. There are a number of types of diaphragms with different rim and spring designs. They may be made from latex, silicone, or natural rubber. They work by blocking access to and holding spermicide near the cervix.\nThe diaphragm came into use around 1882. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most effective and safe medicines needed in a health system. In the United Kingdom they cost the NHS less than 10 pounds each. In the United States they cost about 15 to 75 USD and are the birth control method of 0.3% of people. These costs do not include that of spermicide.\n\nBefore inserting or removing a diaphragm, one should first wash one's hands to avoid introducing harmful bacteria into the vaginal canal.\n\nThe rim of a diaphragm is squeezed into an oval or arc shape for insertion. A water-based lubricant (usually spermicide) may be applied to the rim of the diaphragm to aid insertion. One teaspoon (5 mL) of spermicide may be placed in the dome of the diaphragm before insertion, or with an applicator after insertion.\n\nThe diaphragm must be inserted sometime before sexual intercourse, and remain in the vagina for 6 to 8 hours after a man's last ejaculation. For multiple acts of intercourse, it is recommended that an additional 5 mL of spermicide be inserted into the vagina (not into the dome—the seal of the diaphragm should not be broken) before each act. Upon removal, a diaphragm should be cleansed with warm mild soapy water before storage. The diaphragm must be removed for cleaning at least once every 24 hours and can be re-inserted immediately.\n\nOil-based products should not be used with latex diaphragms. Lubricants or vaginal medications that contain oil will cause the latex to rapidly degrade and greatly increases the chances of the diaphragm breaking or tearing.\n\nNatural latex rubber will degrade over time. Depending on usage and storage conditions, a latex diaphragm should be replaced every one to three years. Silicone diaphragms may last much longer—up to ten years.\n\nThe effectiveness of diaphragms, as of most forms of contraception, can be assessed two ways: \"method effectiveness\" and \"actual effectiveness\". The method effectiveness is the proportion of couples correctly and consistently using the method who do not become pregnant. Actual effectiveness is the proportion of couples who intended that method as their sole form of birth control and do not become pregnant; it includes couples who sometimes use the method incorrectly, or sometimes not at all. Rates are generally presented for the first year of use. Most commonly the Pearl Index is used to calculate effectiveness rates, but some studies use decrement tables.\n\nFor all forms of contraception, actual effectiveness is lower than method effectiveness, due to several factors:\n\n\nFor instance, someone using a diaphragm might be fitted incorrectly by a health care provider, or by mistake remove the diaphragm too soon after intercourse, or simply choose to have intercourse without placing the diaphragm.\n\n\"Contraceptive Technology\" reports that the method failure rate of the diaphragm with spermicide is 6% per year.\n\nThe actual pregnancy rates among diaphragm users vary depending on the population being studied, with yearly rates of 10% to 39% being reported.\n\nUnlike some other cervical barriers, the effectiveness of the diaphragm is the same for women who have given birth as for those who have not.\n\nThe diaphragm does not interfere with a woman's natural cycle, therefore, no reversal or wait time is necessary, if contraception is no longer wanted or needed.\n\nThe diaphragm only has to be used during intercourse. Many women, especially those who have sex less frequently, prefer barrier contraception such as the diaphragm over methods that require some action every day.\n\nLike all cervical barriers, diaphragms may be inserted several hours before use, allowing uninterrupted foreplay and intercourse. Most couples find that neither partner can feel the diaphragm during intercourse.\n\nThe diaphragm is less expensive than many other methods of contraception.\n\nThere is some evidence that the cells in the cervix are particularly susceptible to certain sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Cervical barriers such as diaphragms may offer some protection against these infections. However, research conducted to test whether the diaphragm offers protection from HIV found that women provided with both male condoms and a diaphragm experienced the same rate of HIV infection as women provided with male condoms alone.\n\nBecause pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) is caused by certain STIs, diaphragms may lower the risk of PID. Cervical barriers may also protect against human papillomavirus (HPV), the virus that causes cervical cancer, although the protection appears to be due to the spermicide used with diaphragms and not the barrier itself.\n\nDiaphragms are also considered a good candidate as a delivery method for microbicides (preparations that, used vaginally, protect against STIs) that are currently in development.\n\nWomen (or their partners) who are allergic to latex should not use a latex diaphragm.\n\nDiaphragms are associated with an increased risk of urinary tract infection (UTI) Urinating before inserting the diaphragm, and also after intercourse, may reduce this risk.\n\nToxic shock syndrome (TSS) occurs at a rate of 2.4 cases per 100,000 women using diaphragms, almost exclusively when the device is left in place longer than 24 hours.\n\nThe increase in risk of UTIs may be due to the diaphragm applying pressure to the urethra, especially if the diaphragm is too large, and causing irritation and preventing the bladder from emptying fully. However, the spermicide nonoxynol-9 is itself associated with increased risk of UTI, yeast infection, and bacterial vaginosis. For this reason, some advocate use of lactic acid or lemon juice based spermicides, which might have fewer side effects. Although these alternative spermicides have been shown to immobilize sperm in the laboratory, their effect on pregnancy rates in humans has never been studied.\n\nIt has also been suggested that, for women who experience side effects from nonoxynol-9, it may be acceptable to use the diaphragm without any spermicide. One study found an actual pregnancy rate of 24% per year in women using the diaphragm without spermicide; however, all women in this study were given a 60 mm diaphragm rather than being fitted by a clinician. Other studies have been small and given conflicting results. The current recommendation is still for all diaphragm users to use spermicide with the device.\n\nIn the early 1920s, Marie Stopes claimed that when wearing a diaphragm, the vagina is stretched such that certain movements made by the woman for the benefit of the man were restricted by the diaphragm spring. In later years there was some discussion of this, with two authors supporting this concept and one opposed. One of them argued in the later 1920s-1930s, that while the muscle movement by women is restricted it doesn't make all that much difference since most \"women (in the 1920s) are not able to operate their pelvic muscles voluntarily to the best advantage\" (during sex). However, Stopes anticipated this rebuttal, and in so many words classified it as a lame excuse.\n\nDiaphragms are available in diameters of 50 mm to 105mm (about 2–4 inches). They are available in two different materials: latex and silicone. Diaphragms are also available with different types of springs in the rim.\n\nAn \"arcing spring\" folds into an arc shape when the sides are compressed. This is the strongest type of rim available in a diaphragm, and may be used by women with any level of vaginal tone. Unlike other spring types, arcing springs may be used by women with mild cystocele, rectocele, or retroversion. Arcing spring diaphragms may be easier to insert correctly than other spring types.\n\nA \"coil spring\" flattens into an oval shape when the sides are compressed. This rim is not as strong as the arcing spring, and may only be used by women with average or firm vaginal tone. If an arcing spring diaphragm is uncomfortable for a woman or, during intercourse, her partner, a coil spring may prove more satisfactory. Unlike the arcing spring diaphragms, coil springs may be inserted with a device called an introducer.\n\nA \"flat spring\" is much like a coil spring, but thinner. This type of rim may only be used by women with firm vaginal tone. Flat spring diaphragms may also be inserted with an introducer for women uncomfortable using their hands. Ortho used to manufacture a flat-spring diaphragm called the Ortho White. Reflexions also manufactured a flat-spring diaphragm up until 2014.\n\nThere are a number of variations. The SILCS diaphragm is made of silicone, has an arcing spring, and a finger cup is molded on one end for easy removal. The Duet disposable diaphragm is made of dipped polyurethane, pre-filled with BufferGel (BufferGel is currently in clinical trials as a spermicide and microbicide). Both the SILCS and Duet diaphragms are one-size-fits-all.\n\nDiaphragms usually come in different sizes and require a fitting appointment with a health care professional to determine which size a woman should wear. Single size diaphragms that do not require fitting also exist.\n\nA correctly fitting diaphragm will cover the cervix and rest snugly against the pubic bone. A diaphragm that is too small might fit inside the vagina without covering the cervix, or might become dislodged from the cervix during intercourse or bowel movements. It is also more likely that a woman's partner will feel the anterior rim of a too-small diaphragm during intercourse. A diaphragm that is too large will place pressure on the urethra, preventing the bladder from emptying completely and increasing the risk of urinary tract infection. A too-large diaphragm may also rub a sore on the vaginal wall.\n\nDiaphragms should be re-fitted after a weight change of 4.5 kg (10 lb) or more. The traditional clinical guideline is that a decrease in weight may cause a woman to need a larger size, although the strength of this relationship has been questioned.\n\nDiaphragms should also be re-fitted after any pregnancy of 14 weeks or longer. Full-term vaginal delivery especially will tend to increase the size diaphragm a woman needs, although the changes to the pelvic floor during pregnancy mean even women who experience second-trimester miscarriage, or deliver by C-section, should be refitted.\n\n\"Vaginal tenting\", an increase in the length of the vagina, occurs during arousal. This means that during intercourse, the diaphragm will not fit snugly against the pubic bone because it is carried higher up the vaginal canal by the movement of the cervix. If the diaphragm is inserted after arousal has begun, extra care must be taken to ensure the device is covering the cervix.\n\nA woman might be fitted with a different size diaphragm depending on where she is in her menstrual cycle. It is common for a woman to wear a larger diaphragm during menstruation. It has been speculated that a woman may be fitted with a larger size diaphragm when she is near ovulation. The correct size for a woman is the largest size that she can wear comfortably throughout her cycle.\n\nIn the United States, diaphragms are available by prescription only. Many other countries do not require prescriptions.\n\nThe spring in the rim of the diaphragm forms a seal against the vaginal walls. The diaphragm covers the cervix, and physically prevents sperm from entering the uterus through the os.\n\nTraditionally, the diaphragm has been used with spermicide, and it is widely believed the spermicide significantly increases the effectiveness of the diaphragm. Insufficient studies have been conducted to determine effectiveness without spermicide.\n\nIt is widely taught that additional spermicide must be placed in the vagina if intercourse occurs more than six hours after insertion. However, there has been very little research on how long spermicide remains active within the diaphragm. One study found that spermicidal jelly and creme used in a diaphragm retained its full spermicidal activity for twelve hours after placement of the diaphragm.\n\nIt has long been recommended that the diaphragm be left in place for at least six or eight hours after intercourse. No studies have been done to determine the validity of this recommendation, however, and some medical professionals have suggested intervals of four hours or even two hours are sufficient to ensure efficacy. One manufacturer of contraceptive sponges recommends leaving the sponge in place for only two hours after intercourse. However, such use of the diaphragm (removal before 6 hours post-intercourse) has never been formally studied, and cannot be recommended.\n\nIt has been suggested that diaphragms be dispensed as a one-size-fits-all device, providing all women with the most common size (70 mm). However, only 33% of women fitted for a diaphragm are prescribed a 70 mm size, and correct sizing of the diaphragm is widely considered necessary.\n\nThe idea of blocking the cervix to prevent pregnancy is thousands of years old. Various cultures have used cervix-shaped devices such as oiled paper cones or lemon halves, or have made sticky mixtures that include honey or cedar resin to be applied to the cervical opening. However, the diaphragm—which stays in place because of the spring in its rim, rather than hooking over the cervix or being sticky—is of more recent origin.\n\nAn important precursor to the invention of the diaphragm was the rubber vulcanization process, patented by Charles Goodyear in 1844. In the 1880s, a German gynecologist, Wilhelm P. J. Mensinga, published the first description of a rubber contraceptive device with a spring molded into the rim. Wilhelm P. J. Mensinga (1836-1910) wrote first under the pseudonym C. Hasse, and the Mensinga diaphragm was the only brand available for many decades. In the United States, the physician Edward Bliss Foote designed and sold an early form of occlusive pessary under the name \"womb veil\" starting in the 1860s.\n\nAmerican birth control activist Margaret Sanger fled to Europe in 1914 to escape prosecution under the Comstock laws, which prohibited sending contraceptive devices, or information about contraception, through the mail. Sanger learned about the diaphragm in the Netherlands and introduced the product to the United States when she returned in 1916. Sanger and her second husband, Noah Slee, illegally imported large quantities of the devices from Germany and the Netherlands. In 1925, Slee provided funding to Sanger's friend Herbert Simonds, who used the funds to found the first diaphragm manufacturing company in the U.S., the Holland-Rantos Company.\n\nDiaphragms played a role in overturning the federal Comstock Act. In 1932, Sanger arranged for a Japanese manufacturer to mail a package of diaphragms to a New York physician who supported Sanger's activism. U.S. customs confiscated the package, and Sanger helped file a lawsuit. In 1936, in the court case \"United States v. One Package of Japanese Pessaries\", a federal appellate court ruled that the package could be delivered.\n\nAlthough in Europe, the cervical cap was more popular than the diaphragm, the diaphragm became one of the most widely used contraceptives in the United States. In 1940, one-third of all U.S. married couples used a diaphragm for contraception. The number of women using diaphragms dropped dramatically after the 1960s introduction of the IUD and the combined oral contraceptive pill. In 1965, only 10% of U.S. married couples used a diaphragm for contraception. That number has continued to fall, and in 2002 only 0.2% of American women were using a diaphragm as their primary method of contraception.\n\nIn 2014 Janssen Pharmaceuticals announced the discontinuation of the Ortho-All Flex Diaphragm, making it very difficult for women in the US to have that option as a birth-control method.\n\nThe single-sized, silicone diaphragm was developed by PATH during the late 2000s. It was licensed to Kessel Marketing & Vertriebs GmbH of Frankfurt, Germany which began to market it as the Caya Diaphragm. The diaphragm was approved for contraception in Europe in 2013 and in the United States the following year.\n\n"}
{"id": "5254541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5254541", "title": "Dirofilariasis", "text": "Dirofilariasis\n\nDirofilariasis is an infection by parasites of the genus \"Dirofilaria\".\n\nIt can be caused by:\n\nDirofilariasis is often diagnosed by the examination of tissue obtained as part of the diagnostic investigation of coin lesions. Blood tests are not yet helpful in the diagnosis of dirofilariasis in humans.\n\nTreatment with tetracycline antibiotics has been reported to damage Dirofilaria immitis, often causing death of adult worms.\n"}
{"id": "46386654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46386654", "title": "Dohánybolt", "text": "Dohánybolt\n\nIn Hungary, a dohánybolt, in full nemzeti dohánybolt () is a government-approved and government-controlled shop that sells tobacco products.\n\nThe shops must not have wares on display to those outside, similar to the rules for betting shops in the United Kingdom. Depending on the size of the shop, they also may often serve coffee and soft drinks, but it is illegal to smoke in a dohánybolt. Some of the larger have tables outside and essentially become a café.\n"}
{"id": "302319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302319", "title": "Empathy", "text": "Empathy\n\nEmpathy is the capacity to understand or feel what another person is experiencing from within their frame of reference, that is, the capacity to place oneself in another's position. There are many definitions for empathy that encompass a broad range of emotional states. Types of empathy include cognitive empathy, emotional empathy, and empathy.\n\nThe English word \"empathy\" is derived from the Ancient Greek word εμπάθεια (\"empatheia\", meaning \"physical affection or passion\"). This, in turn, comes from εν (\"en\", \"in, at\") and πάθος (\"pathos\", \"passion\" or \"suffering\"). The term was adapted by Hermann Lotze and Robert Vischer to create the German word \"Einfühlung\" (\"feeling into\"), which was translated by Edward B. Titchener into the English term empathy. However, in modern Greek, εμπάθεια means \"malice\", \"hostility\".\n\n\"Alexithymia\" is a word used to describe a deficiency in understanding, processing or describing emotions \"in oneself\" as opposed to in others. This term comes from the combination of two Ancient Greek words: ἀλέξω (\"alekso\", meaning \"push away, repel, or protect\") and \"θυμός\" (\"thymos\", meaning \"the soul, as the seat of emotion, feeling and thought\"). Thus alexithymia literally means \"pushing away your emotions\".\n\nEmpathy definitions encompass a broad range of emotional states, including caring for other people and having a desire to help them; experiencing emotions that match another person's emotions; discerning what another person is thinking or feeling; and making less distinct the differences between the self and the other. It can also be understood as having the separateness of defining oneself and another a blur.\n\nIt also is the ability to feel and share another person's emotions. Some believe that empathy involves the ability to match another's emotions, while others believe that empathy involves being tenderhearted toward another person.\n\nHaving empathy can include having the understanding that there are many factors that go into decision making and cognitive thought processes. Past experiences have an influence on the decision making of today. Understanding this allows a person to have empathy for individuals who sometimes make illogical decisions to a problem that most individuals would respond with an obvious response. Broken homes, childhood trauma, lack of parenting and many others factors can influence the connections in the brain which a person uses to make decisions in the future.\n\nMartin Hoffman is a psychologist who studied the development of empathy. According to Hoffman everyone is born with the capability of feeling empathy.\n\nCompassion and sympathy are terms associated with empathy. Definitions vary, contributing to the challenge of defining empathy. Compassion is often defined as an emotion we feel when others are in need, which motivates us to help them. Sympathy is a feeling of care and understanding for someone in need. Some include in sympathy an empathic concern, a feeling of concern for another, in which some scholars include the wish to see them better off or happier.\n\nEmpathy is distinct also from pity and emotional contagion. Pity is feeling that another is in trouble and in need of help as they cannot fix their problems themselves, often described as \"feeling sorry\" for someone. Emotional contagion is when a person (especially an infant or a member of a mob) imitatively \"catches\" the emotions that others are showing without necessarily recognizing this is happening.\n\nSince empathy involves understanding the emotional states of other people, the way it is characterized is derived from the way emotions themselves are characterized. If, for example, emotions are taken to be centrally characterized by bodily feelings, then grasping the bodily feelings of another will be central to empathy. On the other hand, if emotions are more centrally characterized by a combination of beliefs and desires, then grasping these beliefs and desires will be more essential to empathy. The ability to imagine oneself as another person is a sophisticated imaginative process. However, the basic capacity to recognize emotions is probably innate and may be achieved unconsciously. Yet it can be trained and achieved with various degrees of intensity or accuracy.\n\nEmpathy necessarily has a \"more or less\" quality. The paradigm case of an empathic interaction, however, involves a person communicating an accurate recognition of the significance of another person's ongoing intentional actions, associated emotional states, and personal characteristics in a manner that the recognized person can tolerate. Recognitions that are both accurate and tolerable are central features of empathy.\n\nThe human capacity to recognize the bodily feelings of another is related to one's imitative capacities, and seems to be grounded in an innate capacity to associate the bodily movements and facial expressions one sees in another with the proprioceptive feelings of producing those corresponding movements or expressions oneself. Humans seem to make the same immediate connection between the tone of voice and other vocal expressions and inner feeling.\n\nIn the field of positive psychology, empathy has also been compared with altruism and egotism. Altruism is behavior that is aimed at benefitting another person, while egotism is a behavior that is acted out for personal gain. Sometimes, when someone is feeling empathetic towards another person, acts of altruism occur. However, many question whether or not these acts of altruism are motivated by egotistical gains. According to positive psychologists, people can be adequately moved by their empathies to be altruistic.\n\nEmpathy is generally divided into two major components:\n\n, also called \"emotional empathy\": the capacity to respond with an appropriate emotion to another's mental states. Our ability to empathize emotionally is based on emotional contagion: being affected by another's emotional or arousal state.\n\nAffective empathy can be subdivided into the following scales:\n\n\nAlthough science has not yet agreed upon a precise definition of these constructs, there is consensus about this distinction. Affective and cognitive empathy are also independent from one another; someone who strongly empathizes emotionally is not necessarily good in understanding another's perspective.\n\nCognitive empathy can be subdivided into the following scales:\n\n\n\nAn increasing number of studies in animal behavior and neuroscience claim that empathy is not restricted to humans, and is in fact as old as the mammals, or perhaps older. Examples include dolphins saving humans from drowning or from shark attacks. Professor Tom White suggests that reports of cetaceans having three times as many spindle cells — the nerve cells that convey empathy — in their brains as we do might mean these highly-social animals have a great awareness of one another's feelings.\n\nA multitude of behaviors has been observed in primates, both in captivity and in the wild, and in particular in bonobos, which are reported as the most empathetic of all the primates. A recent study has demonstrated prosocial behavior elicited by empathy in rodents.\n\nRodents have been shown to demonstrate empathy for cagemates (but not strangers) in pain. One of the most widely read studies on the evolution of empathy, which discusses a neural perception-action mechanism (PAM), is the one by Stephanie Preston and de Waal. This review postulates a bottom-up model of empathy that ties together all levels, from state matching to perspective-taking. For University of Chicago neurobiologist Jean Decety, [empathy] is not specific to humans. He argues that there is strong evidence that empathy has deep evolutionary, biochemical, and neurological underpinnings, and that even the most advanced forms of empathy in humans are built on more basic forms and remain connected to core mechanisms associated with affective communication, social attachment, and parental care. Core neural circuits that are involved in empathy and caring include the brainstem, the amygdala, hypothalamus, basal ganglia, insula and orbitofrontal cortex.\n\nSince all definitions of empathy involves an element of for others, all distinctions between egoism and empathy fail at least for beings lacking self-awareness. Since the first mammals lacked a self-aware distinction between self and other, as shown by most mammals failing at mirror tests, the first mammals or anything more evolutionarily primitive than them cannot have had a context of default egoism requiring an empathy mechanism to be transcended. However, there are numerous examples in artificial intelligence research showing that simple reactions can carry out de facto functions the agents have no concept of, so this does not contradict evolutionary explanations of parental care. However, such mechanisms would be unadapted to self-other distinction and beings already dependent on some form of behavior benefitting each other or their offspring would never be able to evolve a form of self-other distinction that necessitated evolution of specialized non-preevolved and non-preevolvable mechanisms for retaining empathic behavior in the presence of self-other distinction, and so a fundamental neurological distinction between egoism and empathy cannot exist in any species.\n\nBy the age of two years, children normally begin to display the fundamental behaviors of empathy by having an emotional response that corresponds with another person's emotional state. Even earlier, at one year of age, infants have some rudiments of empathy, in the sense that they understand that, just like their own actions, other people's actions have goals. Sometimes, toddlers will comfort others or show concern for them at as early an age as two. Also during the second year, toddlers will play games of falsehood or \"pretend\" in an effort to fool others, and this requires that the child know what others believe before he or she can manipulate those beliefs. In order to develop these traits, it is essential to expose your child to face-to-face interactions and opportunities and lead them away from a sedentary lifestyle.\n\nAccording to researchers at the University of Chicago who used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), children between the ages of 7 and 12 years appear to be naturally inclined to feel empathy for others in pain. Their findings are consistent with previous fMRI studies of pain empathy with adults. The research also found additional aspects of the brain were activated when youngsters saw another person intentionally hurt by another individual, including regions involved in moral reasoning.\n\nDespite being able to show some signs of empathy, including attempting to comfort a crying baby, from as early as 18 months to two years, most children do not show a fully fledged theory of mind until around the age of four. Theory of mind involves the ability to understand that other people may have beliefs that are different from one's own, and is thought to involve the cognitive component of empathy. Children usually become capable of passing \"false belief\" tasks, considered to be a test for a theory of mind, around the age of four. Individuals with autism often find using a theory of mind very difficult (e.g. Baron-Cohen, Leslie & Frith, 1988; the Sally-Anne test).\n\nEmpathetic maturity is a cognitive structural theory developed at the Yale University School of Nursing and addresses how adults conceive or understand the personhood of patients. The theory, first applied to nurses and since applied to other professions, postulates three levels that have the properties of cognitive structures. The third and highest level is held to be a meta-ethical theory of the moral structure of care. Those adults operating with level-III understanding synthesize systems of justice and care-based ethics.\n\nEmotions motivate individual behavior that aids in solving communal challenges as well as guiding group decisions about social exchange. Additionally, recent research has shown individuals who report regular experiences of gratitude engage more frequently in prosocial behaviors. Positive emotions like empathy or gratitude are linked to a more positive continual state and these people are far more likely to help others than those not experiencing a positive emotional state. Thus, empathy's influence extends beyond relating to other's emotions, it correlates with an increased positive state and likeliness to aid others. Measures of empathy show that mirror neurons are activated during arousal of sympathetic responses and prolonged activation shows increased probability to help others.\n\nResearch investigating the social response to natural disasters looked at the characteristics associated with individuals who help victims. Researchers found that cognitive empathy, rather than emotional empathy, predicted helping behavior towards victims. Others have posited that taking on the perspectives of others (cognitive empathy) allows these individuals to better empathize with victims without as much discomfort, whereas sharing the emotions of the victims (emotional empathy) can cause emotional distress, helplessness, victim-blaming, and ultimately can lead to avoidance rather than helping.\n\nYet, despite this evidence for empathy-induced altruistic motivation, egoistic explanations may still be possible. For example, one alternative explanation for the problem-specific helping pattern may be that the sequence of events in the same problem condition first made subjects sad when they empathized with the problem and then maintained or enhanced subjects’ sadness when they were later exposed to the same plight. Consequently, the negative state relief model would predict substantial helping among imagine-set subjects in the same condition, which is what occurred. An intriguing question arises from such findings concerning whether it is possible to have mixed motivations for helping. If this is the case, then simultaneous egoistic and altruistic motivations would occur. This would allow for a stronger sadness-based motivation to obscure the effects of an empathic concern-based altruistic motivation. The observed study would then have sadness as less intense than more salient altruistic motivation. Consequently, relative strengths of different emotional reactions, systematically related to the need situation, may moderate the predominance of egoistic or altruistic motivation (Dovidio, 1990). But it has been shown that researchers in this area who have used very similar procedures sometimes obtain apparently contradictory results. Superficial procedural differences such as precisely when a manipulation is introduced could also lead to divergent results and conclusions. It is therefore vital for any future research to move toward even greater standardization of measurement. Thus, an important step in solving the current theoretical debate concerning the existence of altruism may involve reaching common methodological ground.\n\nContemporary neuroscience has allowed us to understand the neural basis of the human mind's ability to understand and process emotion. Studies today enable us to see the activation of mirror neurons and attempt to explain the basic processes of empathy. By isolating these mirror neurons and measuring the neural basis for human mind reading and emotion sharing abilities, science has come one step closer to finding the reason for reactions like empathy. Neuroscientists have already discovered that people scoring high on empathy tests have especially busy mirror neuron systems in their brains (Dr. Christian Keysers). Empathy is a spontaneous sharing of affect, provoked by witnessing and sympathizing with another's emotional state. In a way we mirror or mimic the emotional response that we would expect to feel in that condition or context, much like sympathy. Unlike personal distress, empathy is not characterized by aversion to another's emotional response. Additionally, empathizing with someone requires a distinctly sympathetic reaction where personal distress demands avoidance of distressing matters. This distinction is vital because empathy is associated with the moral emotion sympathy, or empathetic concern, and consequently also prosocial or altruistic action. Empathy leads to sympathy by definition unlike the over-aroused emotional response that turns into personal distress and causes a turning-away from another's distress.\n\nIn empathy we feel what we believe are the emotions of another, which makes it both affective and cognitive by most psychologists. In this sense, arousal and empathy promote prosocial behavior as we accommodate each other to feel similar emotions. For social beings, negotiating interpersonal decisions is as important to survival as being able to navigate the physical landscape. \n\nA meta-analysis of recent fMRI studies of empathy confirmed that different brain areas are activated during affective–perceptual empathy and cognitive–evaluative empathy. Also, a study with patients with different types of brain damage confirmed the distinction between emotional and cognitive empathy. Specifically, the inferior frontal gyrus appears to be responsible for emotional empathy, and the ventromedial prefrontal gyrus seems to mediate cognitive empathy.\n\nResearch in recent years has focused on possible brain processes underlying the experience of empathy. For instance, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has been employed to investigate the functional anatomy of empathy. These studies have shown that observing another person's emotional state activates parts of the neuronal network involved in processing that same state in oneself, whether it is disgust, touch, or pain. The study of the neural underpinnings of empathy has received increased interest following the target paper published by Preston and Frans de Waal, following the discovery of mirror neurons in monkeys that fire both when the creature watches another perform an action as well as when they themselves perform it.\n\nIn their paper, they argue that attended perception of the object's state automatically activates neural representations, and that this activation automatically primes or generates the associated autonomic and somatic responses (idea of perception-action-coupling), unless inhibited. This mechanism is similar to the common coding theory between perception and action. Another recent study provides evidence of separate neural pathways activating reciprocal suppression in different regions of the brain associated with the performance of \"social\" and \"mechanical\" tasks. These findings suggest that the cognition associated with reasoning about the \"state of another person's mind\" and \"causal/mechanical properties of inanimate objects\" are neurally suppressed from occurring at the same time.\n\nA recent meta-analysis of 40 fMRI studies found that affective empathy is correlated with increased activity in the insula while cognitive empathy is correlated with activity in the mid cingulate cortex and adjacent dorsomedial prefrontal cortex.\n\nIt has been suggested that mirroring-behavior in motor neurons during empathy may help duplicate feelings. Such sympathetic action may afford access to sympathetic feelings for another and, perhaps, trigger emotions of kindness, forgiveness.\n\nThe literature commonly indicates that females tend to have more cognitive empathy than males. On average, female subjects score higher than males on the Empathy Quotient (EQ), while males tend to score higher on the Systemizing Quotient (SQ). Both males and females with autistic spectrum disorders usually score lower on the EQ and higher on SQ (see below for more detail on autism and empathy). However, a series of studies, using a variety of neurophysiological measures, including MEG, spinal reflex excitability, electroencephalography and N400 paradigm have documented the presence of an overall gender difference in the human mirror neuron system, with female participants tending to exhibit stronger motor resonance than male participants. In addition, these aforementioned studies found that female participants tended to score higher on empathy self-report dispositional measures and that these measures positively correlated with the physiological response. Other studies show no significant difference, and instead suggest that gender differences are the result of motivational differences.\n\nA review published in the journal \"Neuropsychologia\" found that women tended to be better at recognizing facial effects, expression processing and emotions in general. Men only tended to be better at recognizing specific behavior which includes anger, aggression and threatening cues. A 2006 meta-analysis by researcher Rena A Kirkland in the journal \"North American Journal of Psychology\" found significant sex differences favoring females in \"Reading of the mind\" test. \"Reading of the mind\" test is an advanced ability measure of cognitive empathy in which Kirkland's analysis involved 259 studies across 10 countries. Another 2014 meta-analysis in the journal of \"Cognition and Emotion\", found overall female advantage in non-verbal emotional recognition across 215 samples.\n\nUsing fMRI, neuroscientist Tania Singer showed that empathy-related neural responses tended to be significantly lower in males when observing an \"unfair\" person experiencing pain. An analysis from the journal of \"Neuroscience & Biobehavioral Reviews\" also found that, overall, there are sex differences in empathy from birth, growing larger with age and which remains consistent and stable across lifespan. Females, on average, were found to have higher empathy than males, while children with higher empathy regardless of gender continue to be higher in empathy throughout development. Further analysis of brain tools such as event related potentials found that females who saw human suffering tended to have higher ERP waveforms than males. Another investigation with similar brain tools such as N400 amplitudes found, on average, higher N400 in females in response to social situations which positively correlated with self-reported empathy. Structural fMRI studies also found females to have larger grey matter volumes in posterior inferior frontal and anterior inferior parietal cortex areas which are correlated with mirror neurons in fMRI literature. Females also tended to have a stronger link between emotional and cognitive empathy. The researchers found that the stability of these sex differences in development are unlikely to be explained by any environment influences but rather might have some roots in human evolution and inheritance.\n\nThroughout prehistory, females were the primary nurturers and caretakers of children; so this might have led to an evolved neurological adaptation for women to be more aware and responsive to non-verbal expressions. According to the \"Primary Caretaker Hypothesis\", prehistoric males did not have the same selective pressure as primary caretakers; so therefore this might explain modern day sex differences in emotion recognition and empathy.\n\nAnother growing focus of investigation is how empathy manifests in education between teachers and learners. Although there is general agreement that empathy is essential in educational settings, research has found that it is difficult to develop empathy in trainee teachers. According to one theory, there are seven components involved in the effectiveness of intercultural communication; empathy was found to be one of the seven. This theory also states that empathy is learnable. However, research also shows that it is more difficult to empathize when there are differences between people including status, culture, religion, language, skin colour, gender, age and so on.\n\nAn important target of the method Learning by teaching (LbT) is to train systematically and, in each lesson, teach empathy. Students have to transmit new content to their classmates, so they have to reflect continuously on the mental processes of the other students in the classroom. This way it is possible to develop step-by-step the students' feeling for group reactions and networking. Carl R. Rogers pioneered research in effective psychotherapy and teaching which espoused that empathy coupled with unconditional positive regard or caring for students and authenticity or congruence were the most important traits for a therapist or teacher to have. Other research and publications by Tausch, Aspy, Roebuck. Lyon, and meta-analyses by Cornelius-White, corroborated the importance of these person-centered traits.\n\nIn order to achieve intercultural empathy, psychologists have employed empathy training. One study hypothesized that empathy training would increase the measured level of relational empathy among the individuals in the experimental group when compared to the control group. The study also hypothesized that empathy training would increase communication among the experimental group, and that perceived satisfaction with group dialogue would also increase among the experimental group. To test this, the experimenters used the Hogan Empathy Scale, the Barrett-Lennard Relationship Inventory, and questionnaires. Using these measures, the study found that empathy training was not successful in increasing relational empathy. Also, communication and satisfaction among groups did not increase as a result of the empathy training. While there didn’t seem to be a clear relationship between empathy and relational empathy training, the study did report that \"relational empathy training appeared to foster greater expectations for a deep dialogic process resulting in treatment differences in perceived depth of communication\".\n\nUS researchers William Weeks, Paul Pedersen et al. state that developing intercultural empathy enables the interpretation of experiences or perspectives from more than one worldview. Intercultural empathy can also improve self-awareness and critical awareness of one's own interaction style as conditioned by one's cultural views and promote a view of self-as-process.\n\nThe environment has been another interesting topic of study. Many theorize that environmental factors, such as parenting style and relationships, play a significant role in the development of empathy in children. Empathy promotes pro social relationships, helps mediate aggression, and allows us to relate to others, all of which make empathy an important emotion among children.\n\nA study done by Caroline Tisot looked at how a variety of environmental factors affected the development of empathy in young children. Parenting style, parent empathy, and prior social experiences were looked at. The children participating in the study were asked to complete an effective empathy measure, while the children's parents completed the Parenting Practices Questionnaire, which assesses parenting style, and the Balanced Emotional Empathy scale.\n\nThis study found that a few parenting practices – as opposed to parenting style as a whole – contributed to the development of empathy in children. These practices include encouraging the child to imagine the perspectives of others and teaching the child to reflect on his or her own feelings. The results also show that the development of empathy varied based on the gender of the child and parent. Paternal warmth was found to be significantly important, and was positively related to empathy within children, especially in boys. However, maternal warmth was negatively related to empathy within children, especially in girls.\n\nIt has also been found that empathy can be disrupted due to trauma in the brain such as a stroke. In most cases empathy is usually impaired if a lesion or stroke occurs on the right side of the brain. In addition to this it has been found that damage to the frontal lobe, which is primarily responsible for emotional regulation, can impact profoundly on a person's capacity to experience empathy toward another individual. People who have suffered from an acquired brain injury also show lower levels of empathy according to previous studies. In fact, more than 50% of people who suffer from a traumatic brain injury self-report a deficit in their empathic capacity. Again, linking this back to the early developmental stages of emotion, if emotional growth has been stunted at an early age due to various factors, empathy will struggle to infest itself in that individuals mind-set as a natural feeling, as they themselves will struggle to come to terms with their own thoughts and emotions. This is again suggestive of the fact that understanding one's own emotions is key in being able to identify with another individual’s emotional state.\n\nThe empathy-altruism relationship also has broad for whom empathy is felt at the expense of other potential pro-social goals, thus inducing a type of bias. Researchers suggest that individuals are willing to act against the greater collective good or to violate their own moral principles of fairness and justice if doing so will benefit a person for whom empathy is felt.\n\nOn a more positive note, aroused individuals in an empathetic manner may focus on the long-term welfare rather than just the short-term of those in need. Empathy-based socialization is very different from current practices directed toward inhibition of egoistic impulses through shaping, modeling and internalized guilt. Therapeutic programs built around facilitating altruistic impulses by encouraging perspective taking and empathetic feelings might enable individuals to develop more satisfactory interpersonal relations, especially in the long-term. At a societal level, experiments have indicated that empathy-induced altruism can be used to improve attitudes toward stigmatized groups, even used to improve racial attitudes, actions toward people with AIDS, the homeless and even convicts. Such resulting altruism has also been found to increase cooperation in competitive situations.\n\nEmpathy in the broadest sense refers to a reaction of one individual to another's emotional state. Recent years have seen increased movement toward the idea that empathy occurs from motor neuron imitation. But, how do we account for individual differences in empathy? It cannot be said that empathy is a single unipolar construct but rather a set of constructs. In essence, not every individual responds equally and uniformly the same to various circumstances. The Empathic Concern scale assesses \"other-oriented\" feelings of sympathy and concern and the Personal Distress scale measures \"self-oriented\" feelings of personal anxiety and unease. The combination of these scales helps reveal those that might not be classified as empathetic and expands the narrow definition of empathy. Using this approach we can enlarge the basis of what it means to possess empathetic qualities and create a multi-faceted definition.\n\nBehavioral and neuroimaging research show that two underlying facets of the personality dimensions Extraversion and Agreeableness (the Warmth-Altruistic personality profile) are associated with empathic accuracy and increased brain activity in two brain regions important for empathic processing (medial prefrontal cortex and temporoparietal junction).\n\nResearch suggests that empathy is also partly genetically determined. For instance, carriers of the deletion variant of ADRA2B show more activation of the amygdala when viewing emotionally arousing images. The gene 5-HTTLPR seems to determine sensitivity to negative emotional information and is also attenuated by the deletion variant of ADRA2b. Carriers of the double G variant of the OXTR gene were found to have better social skills and higher self-esteem. A gene located near LRRN1 on chromosome 3 then again controls the human ability to read, understand and respond to emotions in others.\n\nEmpathic anger is an emotion, a form of empathic distress. Empathic anger is felt in a situation where someone else is being hurt by another person or thing. It is possible to see this form of anger as a pro-social emotion.\n\nEmpathic anger has direct effects on both helping and punishing desires. Empathic anger can be divided into two sub-categories: trait empathic anger and state empathic anger.\n\nThe relationship between empathy and anger response towards another person has also been investigated, with two studies basically finding that the higher a person's perspective taking ability, the less angry they were in response to a provocation. Empathic concern did not, however, significantly predict anger response, and higher personal distress was associated with increased anger.\n\nEmpathic distress is feeling the perceived pain of another person. This feeling can be transformed into empathic anger, feelings of injustice, or guilt. These emotions can be perceived as pro-social, and some say they can be seen as motives for moral behavior.\n\nA difference in distribution between affective and cognitive empathy has been observed in various conditions. Psychopathy and narcissism have been associated with impairments in affective but not cognitive empathy, whereas bipolar disorder and borderline traits have been associated with deficits in cognitive but not affective empathy. Autism spectrum disorders have been associated with various combinations, including deficits in cognitive empathy as well as deficits in both cognitive and affective empathy. Schizophrenia, too, has been associated with deficits in both types of empathy.<ref name=\"10.1016/j.psychres.2007.05.017\"></ref> However, even in people without conditions such as these, the balance between affective and cognitive empathy varies.\n\nAtypical empathic responses have been associated with autism and particular personality disorders such as psychopathy, borderline, narcissistic, and schizoid personality disorders; conduct disorder; schizophrenia; bipolar disorder; and depersonalization. Lack of affective empathy has also been associated with sex offenders. It was found that offenders that had been raised in an environment where they were shown a lack of empathy and had endured the same type of abuse, felt less affective empathy for their victims.\n\nThe interaction between empathy and autism is a complex and ongoing field of research. Several different factors are proposed to be at play.\n\nA study of high-functioning adults with autistic spectrum disorders found an increased prevalence of alexithymia, a personality construct characterized by the inability to recognize and articulate emotional arousal in oneself or others. Based on fMRI studies, alexithymia is responsible for a lack of empathy. The lack of empathic attunement inherent to alexithymic states may reduce quality and satisfaction of relationships. Recently, a study has shown that high-functioning autistic adults appear to have a range of responses to music similar to that of neurotypical individuals, including the deliberate use of music for mood management. Clinical treatment of alexithymia could involve using a simple associative learning process between musically induced emotions and their cognitive correlates. A study has suggested that the empathy deficits associated with the autism spectrum may be due to significant comorbidity between alexithymia and autism spectrum conditions rather than a result of social impairment.\n\nOne study found that, relative to typically developing children, high-functioning autistic children showed reduced mirror neuron activity in the brain's inferior frontal gyrus (pars opercularis) while imitating and observing emotional expressions. EEG evidence revealed that there was significantly greater mu suppression in the sensorimotor cortex of autistic individuals. Activity in this area was inversely related to symptom severity in the social domain, suggesting that a dysfunctional mirror neuron system may underlie social and communication deficits observed in autism, including impaired theory of mind and cognitive empathy. The mirror neuron system is essential for emotional empathy.\n\nPrevious studies have suggested that autistic individuals have an impaired theory of mind. Theory of mind is the ability to understand the perspectives of others. The terms cognitive empathy and theory of mind are often used synonymously, but due to a lack of studies comparing theory of mind with types of empathy, it is unclear whether these are equivalent. Theory of mind relies on structures of the temporal lobe and the pre-frontal cortex, and empathy, i.e. the ability to share the feelings of others, relies on the sensorimotor cortices as well as limbic and para-limbic structures. The lack of clear distinctions between theory of mind and cognitive empathy may have resulted in an incomplete understanding of the empathic abilities of those with Asperger syndrome; many reports on the empathic deficits of individuals with Asperger syndrome are actually based on impairments in theory of mind.\n\nStudies have found that individuals on the autistic spectrum self-report lower levels of empathic concern, show less or absent comforting responses toward someone who is suffering, and report equal or higher levels of personal distress compared to controls. The combination in those on the autism spectrum of reduced empathic concern and increased personal distress may lead to the overall reduction of empathy. Professor Simon Baron-Cohen suggests that those with classic autism often lack both cognitive and affective empathy. However, other research has found no evidence of impairment in autistic individuals' ability to understand other people's basic intentions or goals; instead, data suggests that impairments are found in understanding more complex social emotions or in considering others' viewpoints. Research also suggests that people with Asperger syndrome may have problems understanding others' perspectives in terms of theory of mind, but the average person with the condition demonstrates equal empathic concern as, and higher personal distress, than controls. The existence of individuals with heightened personal distress on the autism spectrum has been offered as an explanation as to why at least some people with autism would appear to have heightened emotional empathy, although increased personal distress may be an effect of heightened egocentrism, emotional empathy depends on mirror neuron activity (which, as described previously, has been found to be reduced in those with autism), and empathy in people on the autism spectrum is generally reduced. The empathy deficits present in autism spectrum disorders may be more indicative of impairments in the ability to take the perspective of others, while the empathy deficits in psychopathy may be more indicative of impairments in responsiveness to others’ emotions. These “disorders of empathy” further highlight the importance of the ability to empathize by illustrating some of the consequences to disrupted empathy development.\n\nThe empathizing–systemizing theory (E-S) suggests that people may be classified on the basis of their capabilities along two independent dimensions, empathizing (E) and systemizing (S). These capabilities may be inferred through tests that measure someone's Empathy Quotient (EQ) and Systemizing Quotient (SQ). Five different \"brain types\" can be observed among the population based on the scores, which should correlate with differences at the neural level. In the E-S theory, autism and Asperger syndrome are associated with below-average empathy and average or above-average systemizing. The E-S theory has been extended into the Extreme Male Brain theory, which suggests that people with an autism spectrum condition are more likely to have an \"Extreme Type S\" brain type, corresponding with above-average systemizing but challenged empathy.\n\nIt has been shown that males are generally less empathetic than females. The Extreme Male Brain (EMB) theory proposes that individuals on the autistic spectrum are characterized by impairments in empathy due to sex differences in the brain: specifically, people with autism spectrum conditions show an exaggerated male profile. A study showed that some aspects of autistic neuroanatomy seem to be extremes of typical male neuroanatomy, which may be influenced by elevated levels of fetal testosterone rather than gender itself. Another study involving brain scans of 120 men and women suggested that autism affects male and female brains differently; females with autism had brains that appeared to be closer to those of non-autistic males than females, yet the same kind of difference was not observed in males with autism.\n\nWhile the discovery of a higher incidence of diagnosed autism in some groups of second generation immigrant children was initially explained as a result of too little vitamin D during pregnancy in dark-skinned people further removed from the equator, that explanation did not hold up for the later discovery that diagnosed autism was most frequent in children of newly immigrated parents and decreased if they immigrated many years earlier as that would further deplete the body's store of vitamin D. Nor could it explain the similar effect on diagnosed autism for some European migrants America in the 1940s that was reviewed in the 2010s as a shortage of vitamin D was never a problem for these light-skinned immigrants to America. The decrease of diagnosed autism with the number of years the parents had lived in their new country also cannot be explained by the theory that the cause is genetic no matter if it is said to be caused by actual ethnic differences in autism gene prevalence or a selective migration of individuals predisposed for autism since such genes, if present, would not go away over time. It have therefore been suggested that autism is not caused by an innate deficit in a specific social circuitry in the brain, also citing other research suggesting that specificalized social brain mechanisms may not exist even in neurotypic people, but that particular features of appearance and/or minor details in behavior are met with exclusion from socialization that shows up as apparently reduced social ability.\n\nPsychopathy is a personality disorder partly characterized by antisocial and aggressive behaviors, as well as emotional and interpersonal deficits including shallow emotions and a lack of remorse and empathy. The \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM) and \"International Classification of Diseases\" (ICD) list antisocial personality disorder (ASPD) and dissocial personality disorder, stating that these have been referred to or include what is referred to as psychopathy.\n\nA large body of research suggests that psychopathy is associated with atypical responses to distress cues (e.g. facial and vocal expressions of fear and sadness), including decreased activation of the fusiform and extrastriate cortical regions, which may partly account for impaired recognition of and reduced autonomic responsiveness to expressions of fear, and impairments of empathy. Studies on children with psychopathic tendencies have also shown such associations. The underlying biological surfaces for processing expressions of happiness are functionally intact in psychopaths, although less responsive than those of controls. The neuroimaging literature is unclear as to whether deficits are specific to particular emotions such as fear. Some recent fMRI studies have reported that emotion perception deficits in psychopathy are pervasive across emotions (positives and negatives).\n\nA recent study on psychopaths found that, under certain circumstances, they could willfully empathize with others, and that their empathic reaction initiated the same way it does for controls. Psychopathic criminals were brain-scanned while watching videos of a person harming another individual. The psychopaths' empathic reaction initiated the same way it did for controls when they were instructed to empathize with the harmed individual, and the area of the brain relating to pain was activated when the psychopaths were asked to imagine how the harmed individual felt. The research suggests how psychopaths could switch empathy on at will, which would enable them to be both callous and charming. The team who conducted the study say it is still unknown how to transform this willful empathy into the spontaneous empathy most people have, though they propose it could be possible to bring psychopaths closer to rehabilitation by helping them to activate their \"empathy switch\". Others suggested that despite the results of the study, it remained unclear whether psychopaths' experience of empathy was the same as that of controls, and also questioned the possibility of devising therapeutic interventions that would make the empathic reactions more automatic.\n\nWork conducted by Professor Jean Decety with large samples of incarcerated psychopaths offers additional insights. In one study, psychopaths were scanned while viewing video clips depicting people being intentionally hurt. They were also tested on their responses to seeing short videos of facial expressions of pain. The participants in the high-psychopathy group exhibited significantly less activation in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex, amygdala and periaqueductal gray parts of the brain, but more activity in the striatum and the insula when compared to control participants. In a second study, individuals with psychopathy exhibited a strong response in pain-affective brain regions when taking an imagine-self perspective, but failed to recruit the neural circuits that were activated in controls during an imagine-other perspective—in particular the ventromedial prefrontal cortex and amygdala—which may contribute to their lack of empathic concern.\n\nIt was predicted that people who have high levels of psychopathy would have sufficient levels of cognitive empathy but would lack in their ability to use affective empathy. People that scored highly on psychopathy measures were less likely to portray affective empathy. There was a strong negative correlation showing that psychopathy and affective empathy correspond strongly. The DANVA-2 portrayed those who scored highly on the psychopathy scale do not lack in recognising emotion in facial expressions. Therefore, individuals who have high scores on psychopathy and do not lack in perspective-talking ability but do lack in compassion and the negative incidents that happen to others.\n\nDespite studies suggesting deficits in emotion perception and imagining others in pain, professor Simon Baron-Cohen claims psychopathy is associated with intact cognitive empathy, which would imply an intact ability to read and respond to behaviors, social cues and what others are feeling. Psychopathy is, however, associated with impairment in the other major component of empathy—affective (emotional) empathy—which includes the ability to \"feel\" the suffering and emotions of others (what scientists would term as emotional contagion), and those with the condition are therefore not distressed by the suffering of their victims. Such a dissociation of affective and cognitive empathy has indeed been demonstrated for aggressive offenders. Those with autism, on the other hand, are claimed to be often impaired in both affective and cognitive empathy.\n\nOne problem with the theory that the ability to turn empathy on and off constitutes psychopathy is that such a theory would classify socially sanctioned violence and punishment as psychopathy, as it means suspending empathy towards certain individuals and/or groups. The attempt to get around this by standardizing tests of psychopathy for cultures with different norms of punishment is criticized in this context for being based on the assumption that people can be classified in discrete cultures while cultural influences are in reality mixed and every person encounters a mosaic of influences (e.g. non-shared environment having more influence than family environment). It is suggested that psychopathy may be an artefact of psychiatry's standardization along imaginary sharp lines between cultures, as opposed to an actual difference in the brain.\n\nResearch indicates atypical empathic responses are also correlated with a variety of other conditions.\n\nBorderline personality disorder is characterized by extensive behavioral and interpersonal difficulties that arise from emotional and cognitive dysfunction. Dysfunctional social and interpersonal behavior has been shown to play a crucial role in the emotionally intense way people with borderline personality disorder react. While individuals with borderline personality disorder may show their emotions too much, several authors have suggested that they might have a compromised ability to reflect upon mental states (impaired cognitive empathy), as well as an impaired theory of mind. People with borderline personality disorder have been shown to be very good at recognizing emotions in people's faces, suggesting increased empathic capacities. It is, therefore, possible that impaired cognitive empathy (the capacity for understanding another person's experience and perspective) may account for borderline personality disorder individuals' tendency for interpersonal dysfunction, while \"hyper-emotional empathy\" may account for the emotional over-reactivity observed in these individuals. One primary study confirmed that patients with borderline personality disorder were significantly impaired in cognitive empathy, yet there was no sign of impairment in affective empathy.\n\nOne diagnostic criterion of narcissistic personality disorder is a lack of empathy and an unwillingness or inability to recognize or identify with the feelings and needs of others.\n\nCharacteristics of schizoid personality disorder include emotional coldness, detachment, and impaired affect corresponding with an inability to be empathetic and sensitive towards others.\n\nA study conducted by Jean Decety and colleagues at the University of Chicago demonstrated that subjects with aggressive conduct disorder elicit atypical empathic responses to viewing others in pain. Subjects with conduct disorder were at least as responsive as controls to the pain of others but, unlike controls, subjects with conduct disorder showed strong and specific activation of the amygdala and ventral striatum (areas that enable a general arousing effect of reward), yet impaired activation of the neural regions involved in self-regulation and metacognition (including moral reasoning), in addition to diminished processing between the amygdala and the prefrontal cortex.\n\nSchizophrenia is characterized by impaired affective empathy, as well as severe cognitive and empathy impairments as measured by the Empathy Quotient (EQ). These empathy impairments are also associated with impairments in social cognitive tasks.\n\nBipolar individuals have been observed to have impaired cognitive empathy and theory of mind, but increased affective empathy.<ref name=\"10.1176/jnp.2009.21.1.59\"></ref> Despite cognitive flexibility being impaired, planning behavior is intact. It has been suggested that dysfunctions in the prefrontal cortex could result in the impaired cognitive empathy, since impaired cognitive empathy has been related with neurocognitive task performance involving cognitive flexibility.\n\nLieutenant Colonel Dave Grossman, in his book \"\", suggests that military training artificially creates depersonalization in soldiers, suppressing empathy and making it easier for them to kill other human beings.\n\nThe capacity to empathize is a revered trait in society. Empathy is considered a motivating factor for unselfish, prosocial behavior, whereas a lack of empathy is related to antisocial behavior.\n\nProper empathic engagement helps an individual understand and anticipate the behavior of another. Apart from the automatic tendency to recognize the emotions of others, one may also deliberately engage in empathic reasoning. Two general methods have been identified here. An individual may simulate fictitious versions of the beliefs, desires, character traits and context of another individual to see what emotional feelings it provokes. Or, an individual may simulate an emotional feeling and then access the environment for a suitable reason for the emotional feeling to be appropriate for that specific environment.\n\nSome research suggests that people are more able and willing to empathize with those most similar to themselves. In particular, empathy increases with similarities in culture and living conditions. Empathy is more likely to occur between individuals whose interaction is more frequent. (See Levenson and Reuf 1997 and Hoffman 2000: 62). A measure of how well a person can infer the specific content of another person's thoughts and feelings has been developed by William Ickes (1997, 2003). Paul Bloom an anti-empathy crusader claims emotional engagement of empathy leads to racism and prejudice. In 2010, team led by Grit Hein and Tania Singer gave two groups of men wristbands according to which football team they supported. Each participant received a mild electric shock, then watched another go through the same pain. When the wristbands matched, both brains flared: with pain, and empathic pain. If they supported opposing teams, the observer was found to have little empathy. Bloom calls improper use of empathy and social intelligence as a tool can lead to shortsighted actions and parochialism, he further defies conventional supportive research findings as gremlins from biased standards. He ascertains empathy as an exhaustive process that limits us in morality and if low empathy makes for bad people, bundled up in that unsavoury group would be many who have Asperger’s or autism and reveals his own brother is severely autistic.\nEarly indicators for a lack of empathy:\n\nThere are concerns that the empathizer's own emotional background may affect or distort what emotions they perceive in others (e.g. Goleman 1996: p. 104). It is evidenced that societies that promote individualism have lower ability for empathy. Empathy is not a process that is likely to deliver certain judgments about the emotional states of others. It is a skill that is gradually developed throughout life, and which improves the more contact we have with the person with whom one empathizes. Empathizers report finding it easier to take the perspective of another person when they have experienced a similar situation, as well as experience greater empathic understanding. Research regarding whether similar past experience makes the empathizer more accurate is mixed.\n\nThe extent to which a person's emotions are publicly observable, or mutually recognized as such has significant social consequences. Empathic recognition may or may not be welcomed or socially desirable. This is particularly the case where we recognize the emotions that someone has towards us during real time interactions. Based on a metaphorical affinity with touch, philosopher Edith Wyschogrod claims that the proximity entailed by empathy increases the potential vulnerability of either party. The appropriate role of empathy in our dealings with others is highly dependent on the circumstances. For instance, Tania Singer says that clinicians or caregivers must be objective to the emotions of others, to not over-invest their own emotions for the other, at the risk of draining away their own resourcefulness. Furthermore, an awareness of the limitations of empathic accuracy is prudent in a caregiving situation.\n\nIn his 2008 book, \"How to Make Good Decisions and Be Right All the Time:Solving the Riddle of Right and Wrong\", writer Iain King presents two reasons why empathy is the \"essence\" or \"DNA\" of right and wrong. First, he argues that empathy uniquely has all the characteristics we can know about an ethical viewpoint – including that it is \"partly self-standing\", and so provides a source of motivation that is partly within us and partly outside, as moral motivations seem to be. This allows empathy-based judgements to have sufficient distance from a personal opinion to count as \"moral\". His second argument is more practical: he argues, \"Empathy for others really is the route to value in life\", and so the means by which a selfish attitude can become a moral one. By using empathy as the basis for a system of ethics, King is able to reconcile ethics based on consequences with virtue-ethics and act-based accounts of right and wrong. His empathy-based system has been taken up by some Buddhists, and is used to address some practical problems, such as when to tell lies, and how to develop culturally-neutral rules for romance.\n\nIn the 2007 book \"The Ethics of Care and Empathy\", philosopher Michael Slote introduces a theory of care-based ethics that is grounded in empathy. His claim is that moral motivation does, and should, stem from a basis of empathic response. He claims that our natural reaction to situations of moral significance are explained by empathy. He explains that the limits and obligations of empathy and in turn morality are natural. These natural obligations include a greater empathic, and moral obligation to family and friends, along with an account of temporal and physical distance. In situations of close temporal and physical distance, and with family or friends, our moral obligation seems stronger to us than with strangers at a distance naturally. Slote explains that this is due to empathy and our natural empathic ties. He further adds that actions are wrong if and only if they reflect or exhibit a deficiency of fully developed empathic concern for others on the part of the agent.\n\nIn phenomenology, empathy describes the experience of something from the other's viewpoint, without confusion between self and other. This draws on the sense of agency. In the most basic sense, this is the experience of the other's body and, in this sense, it is an experience of \"my body over there\". In most other respects, however, the experience is modified so that what is experienced is experienced as being the other's experience; in experiencing empathy, what is experienced is not \"my\" experience, even though \"I\" experience it. Empathy is also considered to be the condition of intersubjectivity and, as such, the source of the constitution of objectivity.\n\nSome postmodern historians such as Keith Jenkins in recent years have debated whether or not it is possible to empathize with people from the past. Jenkins argues that empathy only enjoys such a privileged position in the present because it corresponds harmoniously with the dominant liberal discourse of modern society and can be connected to John Stuart Mill's concept of reciprocal freedom. Jenkins argues the past is a foreign country and as we do not have access to the epistemological conditions of by gone ages we are unable to empathize.\n\nIt is impossible to forecast the effect of empathy on the future. A past subject may take part in the present by the so-called historic present. If we watch from a fictitious past, can tell the present with the future tense, as it happens with the trick of the false prophecy. There is no way of telling the present with the means of the past.\n\nHeinz Kohut is the main introducer of the principle of empathy in psychoanalysis. His principle applies to the method of gathering unconscious material. The possibility of not applying the principle is granted in the cure, for instance when you must reckon with another principle, that of reality.\n\nIn evolutionary psychology, attempts at explaining pro-social behavior often mention the presence of empathy in the individual as a possible variable. While exact motives behind complex social behaviors are difficult to distinguish, the \"ability to put oneself in the shoes of another person and experience events and emotions the way that person experienced them\" is the definitive factor for truly altruistic behavior according to Batson's empathy-altruism hypothesis. If empathy is not felt, social exchange (what's in it for me?) supersedes pure altruism, but if empathy is felt, an individual will help by actions or by word, regardless of whether it is in their self-interest to do so and even if the costs outweigh potential rewards.\n\nIn the 2009 book \"Wired to Care\", strategy consultant Dev Patnaik argues that a major flaw in contemporary business practice is a lack of empathy inside large corporations. He states that lacking any sense of empathy, people inside companies struggle to make intuitive decisions and often get fooled into believing they understand their business if they have quantitative research to rely upon. Patnaik claims that the real opportunity for companies doing business in the 21st century is to create a widely held sense of empathy for customers, pointing to Nike, Harley-Davidson, and IBM as examples of \"Open Empathy Organizations\". Such institutions, he claims, see new opportunities more quickly than competitors, adapt to change more easily, and create workplaces that offer employees a greater sense of mission in their jobs. In the 2011 book \"The Empathy Factor\", organizational consultant Marie Miyashiro similarly argues the value of bringing empathy to the workplace, and offers Nonviolent Communication as an effective mechanism for achieving this. In studies by the Management Research Group, empathy was found to be the strongest predictor of ethical leadership behavior out of 22 competencies in its management model, and empathy was one of the three strongest predictors of senior executive effectiveness.\n\nResearch into the measurement of empathy has sought to answer a number of questions: who should be carrying out the measurement? What should pass for empathy and what should be discounted? What unit of measure (UOM) should be adopted and to what degree should each occurrence precisely match that UOM are also key questions that researchers have sought to investigate.\n\nResearchers have approached the measurement of empathy from a number of perspectives.\n\nBehavioral measures normally involve raters assessing the presence or absence of certain either predetermined or ad-hoc behaviors in the subjects they are monitoring. Both verbal and non-verbal behaviors have been captured on video by experimenters such as Truax (1967b). Other experimenters, including Mehrabian and Epstein (1972), have required subjects to comment upon their own feelings and behaviors, or those of other people involved in the experiment, as indirect ways of signaling their level of empathic functioning to the raters.\n\nPhysiological responses tend to be captured by elaborate electronic equipment that has been physically connected to the subject's body. Researchers then draw inferences about that person's empathic reactions from the electronic readings produced (e.g. Levenson and Ruef, 1992; Leslie et al., 2004).\n\nBodily or \"somatic\" measures can be looked upon as behavioral measures at a micro level. Their focus is upon measuring empathy through facial and other non-verbally expressed reactions in the empathizer. These changes are presumably underpinned by physiological changes brought about by some form of \"emotional contagion\" or mirroring (e.g. Levenson and Ruef, 1992*; Leslie et al., 2004*). It should be pointed out that these reactions, whilst appearing to reflect the internal emotional state of the empathizer, could also, if the stimulus incident lasted more than the briefest period, be reflecting the results of emotional reactions that are based upon more pieces of thinking through (cognitions) associated with role-taking (\"if I were him I would feel ...\").\n\nPaper-based indices involve one or more of a variety of methods of responding. In some experiments, subjects are required to watch video scenarios (either staged or authentic) and to make written responses which are then assessed for their levels of empathy (e.g. Geher, Warner and Brown, 2001); scenarios are sometimes also depicted in printed form (e.g. Mehrabian and Epstein, 1972). Measures also frequently require subjects to self-report upon their own ability or capacity for empathy, using Likert-style numerical responses to a printed questionnaire that may have been designed to tap into the affective, cognitive-affective or largely cognitive substrates of empathic functioning. Some questionnaires claim to have been able to tap into both cognitive and affective substrates (e.g. Davis, 1980). More recent paper-based tools include The Empathy Quotient (EQ) created by Baron-Cohen and Wheelwright which comprises a self-report questionnaire consisting of 60 items.\n\nFor the very young, picture or puppet-story indices for empathy have been adopted to enable even very young, pre-school subjects to respond without needing to read questions and write answers (e.g. Denham and Couchoud, 1990). Dependent variables (variables that are monitored for any change by the experimenter) for younger subjects have included self reporting on a 7-point smiley face scale and filmed facial reactions (Barnett, 1984).\n\nA certain amount of confusion exists about how to measure empathy. These may be rooted in another problem: deciding what empathy is and what it is not. In general, researchers have until now been keen to pin down a singular definition of empathy which would allow them to design a measure to assess its presence in an exchange, in someone's repertoire of behaviors or within them as a latent trait. As a result, they have been frequently forced to ignore the richness of the empathic process in favor of capturing surface, explicit self-report or third-party data about whether empathy between two people was present or not. In most cases, instruments have unfortunately only yielded information on whether someone had the potential to demonstrate empathy (Geher et al., 2001)*. Gladstein (1987) summarizes the position noting that empathy has been measured from the point of view of the empathizer, the recipient for empathy and the third-party observer. He suggests that since the multiple measures used have produced results that bear little relation to one another, researchers should refrain from making comparisons between scales that are in fact measuring different things. He suggests that researchers should instead stipulate what kind of empathy they are setting out to measure rather than simplistically stating that they are setting out to measure the unitary phenomenon \"empathy\"; a view more recently endorsed by Duan and Hill (1996).\n\nIn the field of medicine, a measurement tool for carers is the \"Jefferson Scale of Physician Empathy, Health Professional Version (JSPE-HP)\".\n\nThe Interpersonal Reactivity Index (IRI) is the only published measurement tool to date that accounts for a multi-dimensional assessment of empathy. It comprises a self-report questionnaire of 28 items, divided into four 7-item scales covering the above subdivisions of affective and cognitive empathy.\n\nResearch has shown that the ability of empathy in other species is attainable. Many instances of empathy have been recorded throughout many species, including (but not limited to) canines, felines, dolphins, primates, rats and mice . In animals, empathy-related responding could have an ulterior motive such as survival, the sharing of food, companionship and pack-oriented mentality. It is certainly difficult to understand an animal's intention behind an empathic response. Many researchers maintain that applying the term empathy in general to animal behavior is an act of anthropomorphism.\n\nResearchers Zanna Clay and Frans de Waal studied the socio-emotional development of the bonobo chimpanzee. They focused on the interplay of numerous skills such as empathy-related responding, and how different rearing backgrounds of the juvenile bonobo affected their response to stressful events, related to themselves (loss of a fight) and of stressful events of others. It was found that the bonobos sought out body contact as a coping mechanism with one another. A finding of this study was that the bonobos sought out more body contact after watching a distressing event upon the other bonobos rather than their individually experienced stressful event. Mother-reared bonobos as opposed to orphaned bonobos sought out more physical contact after a stressful event happened to another. This finding shows the importance of mother-child attachment and bonding, and how it may be crucial to successful socio-emotional development, such as empathic-like behaviors.\n\nEmpathic-like responding has been observed in chimpanzees in various different aspects of their natural behaviors. For example, chimpanzees are known to spontaneously contribute comforting behaviors to victims of aggressive behavior in natural and unnatural settings, a behavior recognized as consolation. Researchers Teresa Romero and co-workers observed these empathic and sympathetic-like behaviors in chimpanzees at two separate outdoor housed groups. The act of consolation was observed in both of the groups of chimpanzees. This behavior is found in humans, and particularly in human infants. Another similarity found between chimpanzees and humans is that empathic-like responding was disproportionately provided to individuals of kin. Although comforting towards non-family chimpanzees was also observed, as with humans, chimpanzees showed the majority of comfort and concern to close/loved ones. Another similarity between chimpanzee and human expression of empathy is that females provided more comfort than males on average. The only exception to this discovery was that high-ranking males showed as much empathy-like behavior as their female counterparts. This is believed to be because of policing-like behavior and the authoritative status of high-ranking male chimpanzees.\n\nIt is thought that species that possess a more intricate and developed prefrontal cortex have more of an ability of experiencing empathy. It has however been found that empathic and altruistic responses may also be found in sand dwelling Mediterranean ants. Researcher Hollis studied the \"Cataglyphis cursor\" sand dwelling Mediterranean ant and their rescue behaviors by ensnaring ants from a nest in nylon threads and partially buried beneath the sand. The ants not ensnared in the nylon thread proceeded to attempt to rescue their nest mates by sand digging, limb pulling, transporting sand away from the trapped ant, and when efforts remained unfruitful, began to attack the nylon thread itself; biting and pulling apart the threads. Similar rescue behavior was found in other sand-dwelling Mediterranean ants, but only \"Cataglyphis floricola\" and \"Lasius grandis\" species of ants showed the same rescue behaviors of transporting sand away from the trapped victim and directing attention towards the nylon thread. It was observed in all ant species that rescue behavior was only directed towards nest mates. Ants of the same species from different nests were treated with aggression and were continually attacked and pursued, which speaks to the depths of ants discriminative abilities. This study brings up the possibility that if ants have the capacity for empathy and/or altruism, these complex processes may be derived from primitive and simpler mechanisms.\n\nCanines have been hypothesized to share empathic-like responding towards human species. Researchers Custance and Mayer put individual dogs in an enclosure with their owner and a stranger. When the participants were talking or humming, the dog showed no behavioral changes, however when the participants were pretending to cry, the dogs oriented their behavior toward the person in distress whether it be the owner or stranger. The dogs approached the participants when crying in a submissive fashion, by sniffing, licking and nuzzling the distressed person. The dogs did not approach the participants in the usual form of excitement, tail wagging or panting. Since the dogs did not direct their empathic-like responses only towards their owner, it is hypothesized that dogs generally seek out humans showing distressing body behavior. Although this could insinuate that dogs have the cognitive capacity for empathy, this could also mean that domesticated dogs have learned to comfort distressed humans through generations of being rewarded for that specific behavior.\n\nWhen witnessing chicks in distress, domesticated hens, \"Gallus gallus domesticus\" show emotional and physiological responding. Researchers Edgar, Paul and Nicol found that in conditions where the chick was susceptible to danger, the mother hens heart rate increased, vocal alarms were sounded, personal preening decreased and body temperature increased. This responding happened whether or not the chick felt as if they were in danger. Mother hens experienced stress-induced hyperthermia only when the chick's behavior correlated with the perceived threat. Animal maternal behavior may be perceived as empathy, however, it could be guided by the evolutionary principles of survival and not emotionality.\n\n"}
{"id": "57152038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57152038", "title": "Fatima Zohra Ardjoune", "text": "Fatima Zohra Ardjoune\n\nFatima Zohra Ardjoune is an Algerian Army general. She is the first woman in the Arab world to attain this rank. A medical doctor, she pioneered research in the field of hematology in the country in the 1980s. She serves as director-general of the army's central hospital. \n\nFatima Zohra Ardjoune was born in Sétif and attended an indigenous primary school followed by a girls high school in Kouba. As a child she wanted to help others, and went on to study medicine at the University of Algiers.\n\nArdjoune joined the People's National Army of Algeria in February 1972. In the 1980s she worked with her husband Mohamed Ardjoun (now a Colonel and director of the army's Blood Transmission Centre) to research blood-borne diseases. The couple were among the first Algerians to carry out research in the field and developed the country's first screening methods at Maillot Hospital.\n\nArdjoune's doctoral thesis was accepted in 1983 and she was promoted to the rank of commandant (equivalent to major) in 1986. She was appointed a professor in 1991 and promoted to lieutenant colonel.\n\nArdjoune writes scientific papers on hematology and supervises post-graduate research students at the National School of Military Health, the University of Sciences and Technology Houari Boumediene and at the University of Algiers.\n\nArdjoune served as director-general of the Ain Naâdja Military Hospital (where she was previously head of hematology) and was promoted to general rank on 5 July 2009. She is the first Algerian woman and the first woman in the Arab world to attain this rank.\n\nThree further women were promoted to general in the Algerian Army on 13 July 2014 (along with 51 men) and the service has the highest number of female generals of any Arab country.\n"}
{"id": "3766266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3766266", "title": "Food policy", "text": "Food policy\n\nFood policy is the area of public policy concerning how food is produced, processed, distributed, and purchased. Food policies are designed to influence the operation of the food and agriculture system. This often includes decision-making around production and processing techniques, marketing, availability, utilization and consumption of food, in the interest of meeting or furthering social objectives. Food policy can be promulgated on any level, from local to global, and by a government agency, business, or organization. Food policymakers engage in activities such as regulation of food-related industries, establishing eligibility standards for food assistance programs for the poor, ensuring safety of the food supply, food labeling, and even the qualifications of a product to be considered organic.\n\nMost food policy is initiated at the domestic level for purposes of ensuring a safe and adequate food supply for the citizenry. In a developing nation, there are three main objectives for food policy: to protect the poor from crises, to develop long-run markets that enhance efficient resource use, and to increase food production that will in turn promote an increase in income.\n\nFood policy comprises the mechanisms by which food-related matters are addressed or administered by governments, including international bodies or networks, and by public institutions or private organizations. Agricultural producers often bear the burden of governments' desire to keep food prices sufficiently low for growing urban populations. Low prices for consumers can be a disincentive for farmers to produce more food, often resulting in hunger, poor trade prospects, and an increased need for food imports.\n\nIn a more developed country such as the United States, food and nutrition policy must be viewed in context with regional and national economic concerns, environmental pressures, maintenance of a social safety net, encouragement of private enterprise and innovation, and an agrarian landscape dominated by fewer, larger mechanized farms. Industrialized countries strive to ensure that farmers earn relatively stable incomes despite price and supply fluctuations and adverse weather events. The cost of subsidizing farm incomes is passed along to consumers in the form of higher food prices.\n\nThe history of food policy in the United States started in the 1880s with policies being carried out by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. In 1883, Harvey W. Wiley, M.D., was appointed chief chemist at USDA. Wiley devoted his career to raising public awareness of problems with adulterated food; developing standards for food processing; and campaigning for the Pure Food and Drug Act, also known as the \"Wiley Act\". For much of the 1880s, policymakers discussed how to deal with diseased livestock being imported into or exported out of the United States. In 1884, the USDA Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI) was created with the purpose of ensuring that diseased livestock could not be used as food. In 1890, the BAI was charged also with testing meats being exported from the U.S. and ensuring these were disease-free. In 1906, the Pure Food and Drug Act and the Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA) were both signed into law. Both prevent production and sale of adulterated or misbranded foods, the Pure Food and Drug Act focusing on general foods, and FMIA focusing on meats.\n\nThe Bureau of Chemistry, which was charged with enforcing the Pure Food and Drug Act, was reorganized in 1927, becoming the Food, Drug, and Insecticide Administration, and eventually came to be called the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 1931. In 1938, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act was passed by Congress, giving the FDA authority to set food safety standards. The FDA was reorganized to be under the direction of the Department of Health and Human Services in 1940. The Agricultural Marketing Act (AMA) was passed in 1946, allowing inspection of exotic and game animals on a pay-by-case basis, and giving the USDA the authority to inspect, certify and identify the class, quality and condition of agricultural products.\n\nIn 1953, with large-scale reorganization in the USDA, the BAI and Bureau of Dairy were abolished, among other bureaus, and their duties were transferred to the Agricultural Research Service (ARS). The Poultry Products Inspection Act was passed in 1957. This ensured that poultry products shipped in interstate commerce as well as those products being imported into the U.S. were continually inspected for diseases, and that product labels are accurate. In 1958, the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act of 1938 was amended to include the Food Additive Amendment, addressing concerns over invisible hazards from chemicals added to the foods. Also, the Humane Methods of Slaughter Act was passed in 1958. In 1978, this act was amended to ensure that all meat that was inspected by the FSIS to be used for human consumption was humanely slaughtered.\n\nIn 1965, reorganization of the ARS' Consumer and Marketing Service brought federal meat and poultry inspection into one program. In 1967, the Wholesome Meat Act amended the FMIA, and in 1968, the Wholesome Poultry Act amended the PPIA, both requiring states to conduct inspection programs at least as stringent as federal inspections. The Egg Products Inspection Act (EPIA), passed in 1970, ensured the continuous inspection of the processing of egg products. In 1995, this task was taken over by FSIS, and the FDA took responsibility for shell egg products. In 1977, following several changes in organization, the Food Safety and Quality Service, renamed the Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) in 1981, was created to perform meat and poultry grading.\n\nFollowing an \"E. coli\" outbreak in 1993, inspections began to rely more on scientific tests as opposed to the usual sensory-based inspections. FSIS pushed research of Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP). In 1996, the Pathogen Reduction/HACCP Systems were issued, ensuring that illness-causing pathogens are reduced on raw products. Now, while the industry must ensure they are using safe practices, the government is ultimately responsible for setting safety standards and enforcing those standards through inspections and regulation.\n\nWhile food safety concerns may have motivated some of the earliest food policy initiatives, public policies developed around other forms of consumer protections during the latter half of the 20th century, including food labeling and dietary guidance. The role of poverty in food insecurity as well as agricultural concerns have also contributed to the food policy landscape and debate in the United States in recent decades.\n\nThe primary international agency with a focus on food policy is the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations, established in 1945 with four express purposes: to improve nutrition and living standards in member nations, improve the efficiency of production and distribution of all food and agricultural products, better the conditions of rural populations, and expand the world economy in such a way that it would ensure humanity's freedom from hunger. In 1974, FAO hosted the first World Food Conference in Rome and adopted a \"Universal Declaration on the Eradication of Hunger and Malnutrition\". In the aftermath, numerous public and private efforts were launched to better understand the agricultural, economic, social, climatological, and geo-political contributors to hunger. Organizations such as the International Food Policy Research Institute were founded to fund research designed to lead to \"sustainable solutions for ending hunger and poverty\" and annually produces a Global Food Policy Report. Policy-makers seek to better understand how economic principles govern supply and demand and how supply and demand influence food security, first defined in the 1970s as \"the ability to meet food needs in a consistent way,\" though the definition continues to evolve.\n\nFood policies evolve as nations improve their economic condition, moving from an economy based on isolated, self-sufficient rural farming to one based on trade and the development of a wider variety of goods and services offered. Urbanization, population growth, and shifting health concerns affect the way food policy is approached. The following table adapted from Simon Maxwell and Rachel Slater succinctly describes the evolutionary shift in food policies internationally.\n\nFood policy is generally linked to the health of a population. The early literature in under-nutrition involving developing countries was concerned with the effects of food shortage practices on spreading diseases such as marasmus and kwashiorkor. With increases in food production, consumption of energy-dense foods, and the reduction of physical activity, there has been an increase in the prevalence of obesity in developed countries, especially in middle income families, and in some developing countries. Such issues are receiving greater attention from nutritionists and health economists in part because of the life-time costs of treating associated conditions such as diabetes and hypertension. Also, these policies have aided gains in life expectancy achieved in the last few decades by reducing the rate of premature deaths due to obesity and chronic diseases.\n\nFrom the standpoint of policy makers, the diets of lower income families within developing countries need to contain higher quantities of nutrients such as dietary protein, iron, calcium, vitamin A, and vitamin C, in relation to overall energy intake. By contrast, food policies for developed countries should encourage lower consumption of energy-dense foods such as those high in dietary fat and sugars, while promoting higher intakes of dietary fiber for improving health.\n\nIn the United States, food policy decisions are made by government entities at the federal, state, and local level. The primary arenas of federal involvement in food policy include agriculture, nutrition assistance, food safety, dietary guidance, and labeling. Industry initiatives and the work of advocacy organizations that affect food policy are also addressed in this section. Most food policies are developed incrementally, often in reaction to changed circumstances, political climates, or needs.\n\nAll three branches of the federal government play a role in the formulation of food policy in the United States.\n\nThe Food and Drug Administration is the federal agency that is responsible for ensuring the safety of food products, with the exception of meat, poultry, an processed eggs. The various offices within the FDA carry out the agency's unified food program that protects and promotes the public health through the following activities:\n\nThe United States Department of Agriculture has a broad range of interests involved in food policy.\n\nThe Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) is responsible for making sure that the United States' commercial supply of meat, poultry, and egg products is safe, wholesome, and correctly labeled and packaged.\n\nThe Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) focuses on helping children and needy families get proper nutrition through food assistance programs and nutrition education. Two widely known programs within FNS are the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) and the National School Lunch Program (NSLP).\n\nThe Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion (CNPP) works to improve the health and well-being of Americans by developing and promoting dietary guidance that links scientific research to the nutrition needs of consumers. The widely accepted food pyramid was used as part of this dietary guidance, but more recently MyPlate has been developed to show proper nutrition practices in reference to a place setting. The food groups of fruits, vegetables, grains, protein foods, and dairy are each allotted a certain amount of space on the plate, showing the public the proportional amounts of each food they should be eating during each meal.\n\nThe National Organic Program (NOP) regulates the standards for any farm that wants to sell an agricultural product as being organically produced. In order for the agricultural product to be labeled organic, synthetic fertilizers, sewage sludge, irradiation, and genetic engineering may not be used. Additionally, any animal product that is labeled organic must follow guidelines that the livestock living conditions, health care practice and feed follow organic specifications.\n\nWith authority over the nation's annual budget, Congress also plays a role in the formulation of food policies, particularly around issues related to farming and nutrition assistance. In the House of Representatives, the Committee on Agriculture is the lead player; in the Senate, it is the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry. The budget and appropriations committees of each house also play a role. When a program or policy is subject to mandatory spending requirements, meaning that congressional budget committees must fully fund the program for all who meet eligibility criteria, it is the authorizing agriculture committees in both houses that have the power to define the scope of eligibility for the programs. Programs that are not considered mandatory are considered discretionary spending programs, and power over the bottom line is in the hands of the appropriations committees of each house charged with setting annual spending levels.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court has been involved in numerous decisions that have affected food policy around trade and patent concerns, food safety, and labeling. A more systematic and aggressive use of the court system to challenge practices that are linked to obesity has been proposed. Examples include initiating lawsuits against real estate developers who do not include recreational facilities in their designs, school boards that allow exclusive vending rights to soft drink companies, and manufacturers of non-nutritious foods.\n\nFrom a public finance point of view, the two most costly undertakings of the federal government are spending on nutrition assistance and farm subsidy programs, both governed in an omnibus farm bill that is refashioned every five years. Nutrition assistance is by far the costliest food policy program in the nation, followed by farm subsidies. The role of agricultural concerns and nutrition assistance are described in more detail below.\n\nGovernment interventions in the agricultural economy influence the quantities produced and price of food. A number of different instruments are used to incentivize farmers to grow crops and buffer them through difficult economic or weather cycles, including price supports, supply controls, deficiency payments, direct payments, insurance, and demand expansion. Updated every five years, the United States farm bill specifies the type of policy instruments that will be funded in a given cycle and at what cost. Subsidies to farming interests, determined primarily by the farm, are expected to cost $223 billion over the 10-year period from 2013 to 2022, according to the Congressional Research Service (CRS). Crop insurance is the most expensive of the federal farm subsidies, followed by conservation policies and commodity supports. Representatives and senators from states that receive the lion's share of farm subsidies often dominate the committees on agriculture in the House and Senate. Agricultural economics plays an increasingly larger role in the understanding of both domestic and global food trade policy decisions.\n\nThe primary demand expansion program supported by the federal government through the Department of Agriculture is known as the commodity checkoff program. It is responsible for a series of familiar advertising campaigns to create higher demand for commodity products such as milk, beef, pork, and eggs. Familiar slogans from these campaigns include \"Got Milk?\"; \"Pork. The Other White Meat\"; and \"The Incredible, Edible Egg\". Checkoff programs do not exist for some of the healthier foods grown and produced in the U.S., including poultry, fish, and whole grains, and marketing support for produce is minimal.\n\nIn recent decades, policy makers have come under increased pressure to balance the interests of traditional farming in the United States and issues around organic farming, the environmental impact of agriculture, food vs. fuel, and international food security concerns.\n\nEnsuring adequate food for families and individuals living in poverty is also a centerpiece of any nation's food policy efforts. In the United States, this aid primarily takes the form of monthly benefits that are calculated based on family income, adjusted for certain deductible living expenses and household size, and can only be used for the purchase of foods. The program known for decades as \"food stamps\" was revamped and renamed Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) in 2008 to acknowledge the change from paper food stamps to electronic benefit transfer or EBT cards. SNAP is a mandatory spending program; the government must designate funds for the program sufficient to cover benefits for all who meet the eligibility requirements. The farm bill also authorizes funding for SNAP and other nutrition assistance programs, projected to cost $772 billion over the 10-year-period from 2013 to 2022.\n\nThe nutritional needs of children in poverty are an important component of nutrition assistance in the United States. In fiscal year 2011, 45.1 percent of all recipients of SNAP benefits were children. In addition, the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) is an effort to ensure the healthcare and nutrition needs of pregnant and lactating low-income women and their children under the age of five.\n\nThe National School Lunch Act created the National School Lunch Program in 1946 to ensure that low-income children received a fully or partially subsidized meal in the middle of their school day. Revisions to the program were made under President Lyndon B. Johnson with the enactment of the Child Nutrition Act, which integrated the school lunch programming with the Special Milk Program and launched a new national School Breakfast Program. Numerous studies have confirmed a link between school performance and the school breakfast program. More recently, the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010 was signed into law by President Barack Obama and serves to reauthorize expenditures on food programming for children. Nutrition standards for school breakfasts and lunches were revised for the first time in 15 years through the passage of the act to align them more closely with the Dietary Guidelines for Americans. The federal government has faced increased pressure to improve the nutritional quality of meals served in public schools over the last several decades from a wide range of advocacy groups such as the Healthy Schools Campaign and celebrity chef Jamie Oliver's \"School Food Revolution\" launched in a TED talk in February 2010.<ref name=\"12/5/2013\"></ref> Some of this pressure stemmed from federal efforts in the 1980s to broaden the definition of qualifying food groups in what became known as the \"ketchup as a vegetable\" controversy during the Reagan administration.\n\nConcerns about senior citizens living in poverty in the 1960s led to the establishment of the Elderly Nutrition Program (ENP) in 1972. This federally funded program provides grants to state and area agencies on aging to help finance the cost of congregate and home-delivered meals for older adults living independently in the community. The program is periodically re-authorized under the Older Americans Act and is administered by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Service's Administration on Aging. The primary activity funded under Title III is the preparation and serving of nutritious meals for adults over the age of 60 and their spouses. Title III-A provides funding for tribal organizations to provide similar meal services. The meals are distributed through two mechanisms: (1) delivered to the homes of seniors who are not mobile or have self-care challenges, and (2) served at a group meeting place such as a senior center, church, community hall or public school. Homebound seniors receive one meal per day (several fresh and frozen meals may be included in a single delivery), and communities that offer congregate meals are encouraged to offer a meal at least five times per week. Meals must meet Dietary Reference Intakes and USDA Dietary Guidelines for older adults. In 2011, the budget for Title III programs was $817.8 million and an estimated 2.6 million people were served. Grants are made by the Administration on Aging to state agencies and local area councils on aging that provide a variety of other services to their communities' seniors. The program relies heavily on volunteers; a savings of about 10% per meal is attributed to volunteer labor. Over the last 20 years, more funds were shifted from congregate meal support to home-delivered foods, often referred to as Meals on Wheels. While the aim of ENP is to target low-income elderly in cities as well as rural settings, there is no means test to use these services; drafters of the initial legislation wanted to limit barriers to use of the program by older adults.\n\nNutrition assistance in the U.S. takes place in a unique context given the prevalence of obesity among adults and children. More than 69 percent of American adults aged 20 and older were considered overweight or obese in 2009-2010, and 12 percent of children aged 2 to 5 were classified as obese. Studies have found some correlations between food insecurity and obesity among women, but findings regarding men and children have been inconsistent. A framework for using this information to inform policies surrounding food benefits has been proposed. The framework suggests that strategies for coping with the social, psychological and economical stresses of poverty are central to the link between poverty and unhealthy weight status.\n\nA concern about lack of access to fresh produce for many inner city recipients of SNAP benefits has led to an effort to increase the role farmers' markets can play in providing healthy fruits and vegetables to those receiving nutrition assistance. From 2005 to 2010, the number of farmers' markets authorized and equipped to manage SNAP transactions increased from 444 to 1,611. The Senior Farmers' Market Nutrition Program provides funding for coupons given to needy older adults for use in local markets and roadside produce vendors approved by each state.\n\nIn broad policy terms, food safety can be described as an attempt to limit contaminants in the food supply. Traditionally, contaminants of greatest concern were pathogens. According to 2011 estimates by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 48 million people are sickened, 128,000 are hospitalized, and 3,000 die of foodborne diseases during each year. The top five offenders were norovirus, \"salmonella\", \"Clostridium perfringens\", \"Campylobacter\" spp., and \"Staphylococcus aureus\".\n\nThe General Accounting Office has written numerous reports highlighting the dangers inherent in a fragmented approach to U.S. food safety. Federal regulation of food safety is split primarily among agencies in the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Agriculture, but some responsibilities are also delegated to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Department of Commerce, and the Department of Homeland Security. Within the Department of Health and Human Services, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is responsible for the safety of most food products with the exception of meat, poultry, and processed eggs. Animal drugs and livestock feed are also part of the FDA safety mandate, while outbreaks of foodborne illnesses are monitored and probed by the CDC. Within the USDA, the Food Safety and Inspection Service is charged with oversight of the safety, wholesomeness, and proper labeling of meat, poultry and processed eggs. Inspectors are required to be onsite at nearly every slaughterhouse in the nation when animals are being readied for human consumption. As a result, the FSIS has a larger annual budget and employs a much larger number of inspectors than the FDA, even though the FDA's mandate is much broader. Other USDA agencies with a role in food safety include the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS), which aims to prevent animal and plant diseases in domestic and imported products, and the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS), a service whose primary function is to set quality, grades and marketing standards for dairy products, fruits, vegetables and meat.\n\nIn addition to pathogens, chemical additives to food are of increasing concern to Americans. A critical concept related to chemical additives in food is known as generally recognized as safe or GRAS, a designation of the Food and Drug Administration for food substances that are exempt from safety testing. About 12,000 samples of fruits and vegetables available to U.S. consumers are collected each year and tested for residue from pesticides, and the results are published in an annual Pesticide Data Program (PDP) hosted by the USDA.\n\nThere are several types of policy instruments that can be used to try to remedy risks to health posed by the farming and processing of foods for consumption. The government can develop process rules that explicitly state which procedures are appropriate for handling particular foods. Performance standards set quality standards against which foods are measured, such as grades for meat or eggs. Food labeling rules, government-funded food safety research, and consumer education are additional tools. The potential for product liability lawsuits against manufacturers with poor safety practices offers another incentive for producers to take appropriate care when handling and processing foods.\n\nFood labeling requirements are spelled out in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (abbreviated FFDCA, FDCA, or FD&C). Nutrition labeling is required for most prepared foods, and is voluntary for raw produce and fish. The most recognizable label is the nutrition facts label found on all prepared foods. This lists the suggested serving size followed by the amount per serving of calories, fat, cholesterol, sodium, carbohydrates, protein, and a list of some micronutrients found in the food. Ingredients are also included on the label, listed from the highest quantity to the lowest quantity.\n\nThere are also requirements for allergen labeling. According to the Food Allergen Labeling and Consumer Protection Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-282, Title II), 2% of adults and 5% of infants and children have food allergies, and 90% of these allergies are related to milk, eggs, fish, crustacean shellfish, tree nuts, peanuts, wheat, and soybeans. Labeling must contain a list of these major food allergens which are contained in the product, or which may have come in contact with the food during production.\n\nAccording to the Organic Foods Production Act and the National Organic Program:\n\nSome factual labeling terms are not regulated. These terms include:\n\n\nUse of these terms on labels may be added in effort to improve marketing for the product.\n\nConsumers report skepticism about the quality of dietary advice generally, often stating confusion due to conflicting nutrition information from different sources. The Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion within the U.S. Department of Agriculture is charged with reviewing the scientific literature and forging agreement on a series of food choices and behaviors that are compiled and issued every five years as the Dietary Guidelines for Americans. The 2015 Dietary Guidelines Advisory Committee is currently meeting and expects to publish new guidelines in the fall of 2015. The general public is invited to submit comments to the advisory committee, which are published on the website of the Center for Nutrition Policy and Promotion. Comments submitted come from academic institutions, individual physicians, members of the public, and industries with a stake in the guidelines. For example, among those giving oral testimony to the committee that developed the 2010 guidelines were representatives of the sugar, fisheries, dairy, egg, pork, beef, soy foods, and produce industries. Others offering testimony included the Council for Responsible Nutrition, the University of Washington, the American Heart Association, The Cancer Project]], the Institute of Food Technologists, and the Vegetarian Union of North America. While open to public input, the development of the dietary guidelines is an example of a food policy promulgated solely within the executive branch of the federal government.\n\nFor more than a decade, dietary guidelines were illustrated with a food pyramid, but the 2010 guidelines were accompanied by a new graphic, MyPlate. This graphic attempts to show proper nutrition practices in reference to a place setting. Five food groups - fruits, vegetables, grains, protein foods, and dairy - are drawn in ideal proportions for each meal. Periodic reports from government agencies, surveys, and studies indicate that the U.S. population fails to meet the government's dietary guidelines. Americans eat insufficient quantities of fruits and vegetables and consume too many foods high in unhealthy fats, added sugars, and alcohol. As with nutritional assistance, dietary guidelines are formulated in an environment that is increasingly aware of the health risks faced by the nation due to the growing number of overweight and obese individuals. While the field of nutrition and public health works closely with a social ecological model that places individual behavior determinants and choices in the context of his or her familial, community, and societal contexts, the Dietary Guidelines for Americans are directed solely at individual behaviors around food, nutritional intake and physical activity.\n\nEvery citizen of the United States could be described as a stakeholder in food policy, but farming and food industry interests are generally the dominant players when advocating for and against legislation and regulation at the federal level; public health advocates and consumer interest groups also play a role. Action by the federal government on food policy is often more important to farmers and food manufacturers or distributors because their income is derived from these economic activities, whereas consumers in the U.S. spend only about 10 percent of their income on food. This generally makes farmers or food industry executives easier to organize around policy issues than the public at large.\n\nNon-profit organizations that accept charitable donations and are organized under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Service Code are limited in the funds they can spend on lobbying activities under the code, while profit-making businesses and trade associations do not face the same restrictions. As a result, some charitable groups with a stake in U.S. food policy decisions create a separate organization for lobbying purposes and devise a funding mechanism that does not include tax-deductible charitable contributions. Funds spent by industry and other interest groups on lobbying and political campaigns are tracked and made publicly available by the not-for-profit Center for Responsive Politics through its website, Open Secrets.\n\nMany food policy councils (FPCs) also work to educate the public, shape public policy, and even create new programs. Many states, regions, cities and other organizations have formed their own FPCs. Some of these FPCs are commissioned by the government, while others are collaborative efforts by grassroots organizations. The earliest grassroots food policy councils were the City of Hartford Advisory Commission on Food Policy established in 1991 and the Marin Food Policy Council established in 1998. Some councils are found at universities, such as the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity at Yale.\n\nState-run FPCs include:\n\n\nNot all policies involving food in the public marketplace originate within government. The food industry has also set standards for itself from time to time. Often, these voluntary efforts stem from industry concerns that they may face heavier or piecemeal regulations from federal or state regulators.\n\nFacts Up Front is an initiative by the Grocery Manufacturers Association (GMA) that is designed to simplify nutrition information on products with a front-of-package (FOP) label that highlights the calories, saturated fat, sodium, and sugars in a single serving of an item. Initially called \"Nutrition Keys\", the industry took this action at a time when federal agencies expressed concerns about the potential for consumer confusion stemming from competing attempts to simplify nutrition information on packaged goods. Congress and the Centers for Disease Control charged the Institute of Medicine with conducting a study with an eye toward recommendations to standardize these labels, and a report was issued in October 2011. The GMA initiative was launched in January 2011, and compliance is voluntary.\n\nLaunched in 2007, this voluntary effort called for food manufacturers to set nutritional criteria for food products they advertise during children's programming. Organized through the Better Business Bureau, the initiative was widely criticized by advocates for federal regulation of advertising to children. A scorecard developed by the Rudd Center for Food Policy and Obesity at Yale University to track changes in the advertising of cereal to children was issued in 2012 and covered changes during the period of 2008 to 2011. Among the findings: total media spending to advertise child-targeting cereals had increased 34 percent, cereal company spending on Spanish-language TV more than doubled in that time period, two cereal companies launched new advertising in video games or advergame websites, and the majority of cereals children see advertised on television consist of one-third or more sugar. Overall nutrition had improved for 13 of 16-targeted brands, and preschoolers' exposure the cereal advertising declined by 6 percent.\n\nAs with other actors in the public policy arena, food policy makers must account for a variety of political, social, environmental and economic agendas that affect a nation's food supply. Food politics, both domestically and internationally, play an important role in agenda setting, rule making, and implementation. Politics come into play on a variety of different fronts as the needs of the populace to have reliable, safe, affordable access to food are balanced against the desire to ensure farmers can earn a viable living.\n\nFood policy has both political and economic factors that contribute to the challenges it faces. Food policy is not completely based on politics, but politics have an impact. Countries that have more political involvement typically have more of an influence on solving issues dealing with hunger and poverty. Countries that have less political involvement may not have as much to do with food policy.\n\nThe solution to hunger and poverty can be found by increasing the amount of food intake per individual. The amount to increase by depends on how much food is needed to carry out day-to-day tasks. Some challenges that this solution faces are: having enough money to afford the cost of food, having the food supply, and having a sufficient supply of nutritional foods. Also, having the education on what foods to buy and which are nutritional can be an issue. These are all factors that can cause a food policy to fail.\n\nFood policy involves both consumers and producers. If prices are too high for consumers to afford nutritional food products, then it reduces the amount they can purchase. High food prices can cause lower-income households to have a poorer quality diet. Producers rely on food prices for income and therefore cannot make the prices so low that they are not able to survive. There is a fine line between supply and demand, which creates a challenge for food policy.\n\n"}
{"id": "17107820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17107820", "title": "Glycogen storage disease type IX", "text": "Glycogen storage disease type IX\n\nGlycogen storage disease type IX is a hereditary deficiency of glycogen phosphorylase kinase B that affects the liver and skeletal muscle tissue. It is inherited in an X-linked or autosomal recessive manner.\n\nThe signs and symptoms in glycogen storage disease type IX include:\nMost of these signs and symptoms diminish as adulthood sets in.\n\nGlycogen storage disease type IX can be inherited via:\n\nThe diagnosis of glycogen storage disease IX consists of the following:\n\nThere are two types of this inherited condition, \"glycogen storage disease IXa1\" and \"glycogen storage disease IXa2\" that affect the liver of an individual. Mutations in PHKA2 have been seen in individuals with glycogen storage disease IXa2.\n\nThe management of Glycogen storage disease IX requires treatment of symptoms by frequent intake of complex carbohydrates and protein to combat the low blood sugar. A nutritionist will advise on suitable diets. Liver function is regularly monitored and problems managed as they arise. However, liver problems have only been successfully treated by a transplant. Routine checks of metabolism are needed to ensure blood sugar (glucose) and ketones are managed. Regular moderate exercise is beneficial, although over-vigorous exercise is to be avoided, especially in those with enlarged livers.\n\n"}
{"id": "900695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=900695", "title": "Gold digging", "text": "Gold digging\n\nGold digging is a type of transactional relationship in which people, especially women, engage in relationships for money rather than love. When it turns into marriage, it is a type of marriage of convenience. \n\nPeggy Hopkins Joyce was in the 1920s considered the perfect example of a gold digger, with some claims existing that the term was even coined to describe her.\n\nA popular association between chorus girls and gold diggers was established in 1919 by \"The Gold Diggers\" play, association which was also present in the subsequent film four years later, \"The Gold Diggers\".\n\nIn 1920s and 1930s American cinema the \"gold digger\" was the type of \"femme fatale\" that gradually replaced the \"vamp\". The character type would be featured, for example, in \"How to Marry a Millionaire\", a 1953 film starring Marilyn Monroe, alongside Schatze Page and Loco Dempsey. \n\nIn the analysis of rap music it has been theorized that the \"gold digger script\" is one of a few prevalent sexual scripts present for young African American women. \n\nKanye West's \"Gold Digger\" references gold digging.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21213713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21213713", "title": "Healthcare in South Africa", "text": "Healthcare in South Africa\n\nIn South Africa, private and public health systems exist in parallel. The public system serves the vast majority of the population, but is chronically underfunded and understaffed. The wealthiest 20% of the population use the private system and are far better served. In 2005, South Africa spent 8.7% of GDP on health care, or US$437 per capita. Of that, approximately 42% was government expenditure. About 79% of doctors work in the private sector. It has the highest levels of obesity in sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nThe first hospital in South Africa, a temporary tent to care for sick sailors of the Dutch East India Company (the Company) afflicted by diseases such as typhoid and scurvy, was started at the Cape of Good Hope in 1652.\n\nA permanent hospital was completed in 1656. Initially, convalescent soldiers provided to others whatever care they could, but around 1700 the first \"Binnenmoeder\" (Dutch for matron) and \"Siekenvader\" (male nurse/supervisor) were appointed in order to ensure cleanliness in the hospital, and to supervise bedside attendants.\n\nThe Company subsequently employed Sworn Midwives from Holland, who practiced midwifery and also trained and examined local women who wished to become midwives. Some of the early trainees at the Cape were freed Malay and coloured slaves.\n\nFrom 1807, other hospitals were built in order to meet the increasing demand for healthcare. The first hospitals in the Eastern Cape were founded in Port Elizabeth, King Williamstown, Grahamstown and Queenstown.\n\nRoman Catholic Nuns of the Assumption Order were the first members of a religious order to arrive in South Africa. In 1874, two Nightingale nurses, Anglican Sisterhoods, the Community of St Michael and All Angels arrived from England.\n\nThe discovery of diamonds in Kimberley led to an explosion of immigrants, which, coupled with the \"generally squalid conditions\" around mines, encouraged the spread of diseases dysentery, typhoid, and malaria.\n\nFollowing negotiations with the Anglican Order of St Michael, Sister Henrietta Stockdale and other members were assigned to the Carnarvon hospital in 1877. Sister Stockdale had studied nursing and taught the nurses at Carnavorn what she knew; these nurses would move to other hospitals in Barbeton, Pretoria, Queenstown, and Cape Town, where they in turn trained others in nursing. This laid the foundation of professional nursing in South Africa.\n\nSister Stockdale was also responsible for the nursing clauses in the Cape of Good Hope Medical and Pharmacy Act of 1891, the world's first regulations requiring state registration of nurses.\n\nMost mission hospitals have become public hospitals in contemporary South Africa.\n\nThe Anglo-Boer war and World War 1 severely strained healthcare provision in South Africa.\n\nFormal training for black nurses began at Lovedale in 1902. In the first half of the 20th century, nursing was not considered appropriate for Indian women but some males did become registered nurses or orderlies.\n\nIn 1912, the South African military recognised the importance of military nursing in the Defence Act. In 1913, the first nursing journal, The South African Nursing Record, was published. In 1914, The South African Trained Nurses' Association, the first organisation for nurses, formed. In 1944, the first Nursing Act was promulgated.\n\nIn 1935, the first diploma courses to enable nurses to train as tutors were introduced at the University of Witwatersrand and the University of Cape Town.\n\nThe establishment of independent states and homelands in South Africa also created independent Nursing Councils, and Nursing Associations for the Transkei, Bophuthatswana, Venda, and Ciskei. Under the post-Apartheid dispensation, these were all merged to form one organisation, the Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa (DENOSA).\n\nIn 2013, it was estimated that vacancy rates for doctors were 56% and for nurses 46%. Half the population lives in rural areas, but only 3% of newly qualified doctors take jobs there. All medical training takes place in the public sector but 70% of doctors go into the private sector. 10% of medical staff are qualified in other countries. Medical student numbers increased by 34% between 2000 and 2012.\n\nThere are more than 400 public hospitals and more than 200 private hospitals. The provincial health departments manage the larger regional hospitals directly. Smaller hospitals and primary care clinics are managed at district level. The national Department of Health manages the 10 major teaching hospitals directly.\n\nThe Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital is the third largest hospital in the world and it is located in Johannesburg.\n\nThe public sector uses a Uniform Patient Fee Schedule (UPFS) as a guide to billing for services. This is being used in all the provinces of South Africa, although in Western Cape, Kwa-Zulu Natal, and Eastern Cape, it is being implemented on a phased schedule. Implemented in November 2000, the UPFS categorises the different fees for every type of patient and situation. \n\nIt groups patients into three categories defined in general terms, and includes a classification system for placing all patients into either one of these categories depending on the situation and any other relevant variables. The three categories include full paying patients—patients who are either being treated by a private practitioner, who are externally funded, or who are some types of non-South African citizens—, fully subsidised patients—patients who are referred to a hospital by Primary Healthcare Services—, and partially subsidised patients—patients whose costs are partially covered based on their income. There are also specified occasions in which services are free of cost.\n\nBecause of its abundant cases of HIV/AIDS among citizens (about 5.6 million in 2009) South Africa has been working to create a program to distribute anti-retroviral therapy treatment, which has generally been limited in poorer countries, including neighboring country Lesotho. An anti-retroviral drug aims to control the amount of virus in the patient’s body. In November 2003 the Operational Plan for Comprehensive HIV and AIDS Care, Management and Treatment for South Africa was approved, which was soon accompanied by a National Strategic Plan for 2007–2011. When South Africa freed itself of apartheid, the new health care policy has emphasised public health care, which is founded with primary health care. The National Strategic Plan therefore promotes distribution of anti-retroviral therapy through the public sector, and more specifically, primary health care. \n\nAccording to the World Health Organization, about 37% of infected individuals were receiving treatment at the end of 2009. It wasn’t until 2009 that the South African National AIDS Council urged the government to raise the treatment threshold to be within the World Health Organization guidelines. Although this is the case, the latest anti-retroviral treatment guideline, released in February 2010, continue to fall short of these recommendations. In the beginning of 2010, the government promised to treat all HIV-positive children with anti-retroviral therapy, though throughout the year, there have been studies that show the lack of treatment for children among many hospitals. In 2009, a bit over 50% of children in need of anti-retroviral therapy were receiving it. Because the World Health Organization’s 2010 guidelines suggest that HIV-positive patients need to start receiving treatment earlier than they have been, only 37% of those considered in need of anti-retroviral therapy are receiving it.\n\nA controversy within the distribution of anti-retroviral treatment is the use of generic drugs. When an effective anti-retroviral drug became in available in 1996, only economically rich countries could afford it at a price of $10,000 to $15,000 per person per year. For economically disadvantaged countries, such as South Africa, to begin using and distributing the drug, the price had to be lowered substantially. In 2000, generic anti-retroviral treatments started being produced and sold at a much cheaper cost. Needing to compete with these prices, the big-brand pharmaceutical companies were forced to lower their prices. This competition has greatly benefited low economic countries and the prices have continued decline since the generic drug was introduced. The anti-retroviral treatment can now be purchased at as low as eighty-eight dollars per person per year. While the production of generic drugs has allowed the treatment of many more people in need, pharmaceutical companies feel that the combination of a decrease in price and a decrease in customers reduces the money they can spend on researching and developing new medications and treatments for HIV/AIDS.\n\nFollowing the end of the Second World War, South Africa saw a rapid growth in the coverage of private medical provision, with this development mainly benefiting the predominantly middle class white population. From 1945 to 1960, the percentage of whites covered by health insurance grew from 48% to 80% of the population. Virtually the entire white population had shifted away from the free health services provided by the government by 1960, with 95% of non-whites remaining reliant upon the public sector for treatment.\n\nMembership of health insurance schemes became effectively compulsory for white South Africans due to membership of such schemes being a condition of employment, together with the fact that virtually all whites were formally employed. Pensioner members of many health insurance schemes received the same medical benefits as other members of these schemes, but free of costs.\n\nSince coming to power in 1994, the African National Congress (ANC) has implemented a number of measures to combat health inequalities in South Africa. These have included the introduction of free health care in 1994 for all children under the age of six together with pregnant and breastfeeding women making use of public sector health facilities (extended to all those using primary level public sector health care services in 1996) and the extension of free hospital care (in 2003) to children older than six with moderate and severe disabilities.\n\nThe current government is working to establish a national health insurance (NHI) system out of concerns for discrepancies within the national health care system, such as unequal access to healthcare amongst different socio-economic groups. Although the details and outline of the proposal have yet to be released, it seeks to find ways to make health care more available to those who currently can’t afford it or whose situation prevents them from attaining the services they need. There is a discrepancy between money spent in the private sector which serves the wealthy (about US$1500 per head per year) and that spent in the public sector (about US$150 per head per year) which serves about 84% of the population. About 16% of the population have private health insurance. The total public funding for healthcare in 2012/3 was R21 billion. The NHI scheme is expected to require expenditure of about R336 billion.\n\nThe NHI is speculated to propose that there be a single National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) for health insurance. This fund is expected to draw its revenue from general taxes and some sort of health insurance contribution. The proposed fund is supposed to work as a way to purchase and provide health care to all South African residents without detracting from other social services. Those receiving health care from both the public and private sectors will be mandated to contribute through taxes to the NHIF. The ANC hopes that the NHI plan will work to pay for health care costs for those who cannot pay for it themselves.\n\nThere are those who doubt the NHI and oppose its fundamental techniques. For example, many believe that the NHI will put a burden on the upper class to pay for all lower class health care. Currently, the vast majority of health care funds comes from individual contributions coming from upper class patients paying directly for health care in the private sector. The NHI proposes that health care fund revenues be shifted from these individual contributions to a general tax revenue. Because the NHI aims to provide free health care to all South Africans, the new system is expected to bring an end to the financial burden facing public sector patients.\n\nThe South African Constitution guarantees everyone \"access to health care services\" and states that \"no one may be refused emergency medical treatment.\" Hence, all South African residents, including refugees and asylum seekers, are entitled to access to health care services.\n\nA Department of Health directive stated that all refugees and asylum seekers – without the need for a permit or a South African identity document – should have access to free anti-retroviral treatment at all public health care providers.\n\nThe Refugee Act entitles migrants to full legal protection under the Bill of Rights as well as the same basic health care services which inhabitants of South Africa receive.\n\nAlthough infectious diseases \"as prescribed from time to time\" does bar entry, grant of temporary and permanent residence permits according to the Immigration Act, this does not include an infection with HIV and therefore migrants cannot be declined entry or medical treatment based on their HIV status.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23820600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23820600", "title": "International Beer Day", "text": "International Beer Day\n\nInternational Beer Day (IBD) is a celebration on the first Friday of every August founded in 2007 in Santa Cruz, California by Jesse Avshalomov. Since its inception, International Beer Day has grown from a small localized event in the western United States into a worldwide celebration spanning 207 cities, 80 countries and 6 continents. Specifically, International Beer Day has three declared purposes:\n\n\nParticipants are encouraged to give one another the 'gift of beer' by buying each other drinks, and to express gratitude to brewers, bartenders, and other beer technicians. In the international spirit of the holiday, it is also suggested that participants step out of their domestic/locally brewed comfort zone and sample a beer from another culture.\n\nInternational Beer Day began as a celebration at the founders’ local bar, but has since expanded to become a worldwide event. Celebrations are planned throughout the United States as well as in Argentina, Armenia, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, England, France, Greece, Honduras, Hong Kong, Hungary, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Latvia, Lebanon, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Macedonia, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Puerto Rico, Romania, Scotland, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Thailand, the Philippines, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, Uruguay, Vanuatu, and Venezuela.\n\nPopular forms of International Beer Day Events include: Tapping of new or rare beers, all-day happy hours, beer flights, trivia nights, binge drinking and other games (such as beer pong), beer/food pairings and beer gear giveaways.\n\nFrom 2007 through 2012, International Beer Day was celebrated on August 5. After International Beer Day 2012, the founders took a poll of fans and chose to move the holiday to the first Friday in August.\n\n"}
{"id": "26506143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26506143", "title": "Intra-rater reliability", "text": "Intra-rater reliability\n\nIn statistics, intra-rater reliability is the degree of agreement among repeated administrations of a diagnostic test performed by a single rater. Intra-rater reliability and inter-rater reliability are aspects of test validity.\n\n"}
{"id": "58743586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58743586", "title": "Kim Chang-ho (climber)", "text": "Kim Chang-ho (climber)\n\nKim Chang-ho () was a South Korean mountain climber. Kim began climbing after reading about Alexander the Great's exploits. \n\nIn 2012, he won the Piolets d'or Asia award with An Chi-young when they made the first ever ascent of Himjung (7,092m) in Nepal; the British Mountaineering Council noted that, \"Kim also made the first ascent of 7,762m Batura II. Together with Batura I West (7,775m), which remains virgin, Batura II was one of the highest unclimbed named summits in the Karakoram (and indeed Asia)\".\n\nIn 2013, he became the first Korean to climb all of the world's 14 mountains over 8,000 metres without using supplementary oxygen; in doing so he also set the record for completing the feat in the shortest time. His new world record of seven years, 10 months and six days was over a month quicker than the previous one, held by Jerzy Kukuczka of Poland. Unusually, Kim used an \"eco-friendly\" approach, taking 60 days to reach the Mount Everest base camp using \"kayak, bicycle and foot\" rather than flying to Lukla.\n\nHe was killed, along with several others including fellow South Korean climbers and local mountain guides, in Nepal in October, 2018, when a snowstorm destroyed the 3500m-altitude base camp beneath Mount Gurja in the Dhaulagiri.\n"}
{"id": "20055678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20055678", "title": "Kiribati Red Cross Society", "text": "Kiribati Red Cross Society\n\nKiribati Red Cross Society was founded in 1965. It has its headquarters in Bairiki, Kiribati.\n\n"}
{"id": "47042087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47042087", "title": "Lactation failure", "text": "Lactation failure\n\nIn breastfeeding, lactation failure may refer to:\n\nLactation failure can result in neonatal jaundice. \n\n"}
{"id": "21917315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21917315", "title": "Lago di Ortiglieto", "text": "Lago di Ortiglieto\n\nLago di Ortiglieto is a reservoir in northwest Italy which straddles the Metropolitan City of Genoa in Liguria, and [the [Province of Alessandria]] in Piedmont.\n\nLago di Ortiglieto reservoir was firstly designed in 1906 by ing. Zunini and was built from 1917 to 1925 by a company of Genoa named \"Officine Elettriche Genovesi\". There were two dams, the higher of 45 metres (\"bric Zerbino\" dam) and another one of 15 metres (\"Diga della Sella Zerbino\"). After a period of heavy rains of August 1935 the sella Zerbino dam crashed, generating a flood of the Orba which caused 111 dathts, mainly in the Ovada area. Nowadays Ortiglieto lake is much smaller tha in the past and there is only one dam.\n"}
{"id": "52245688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52245688", "title": "List of digital therapeutics companies", "text": "List of digital therapeutics companies\n\nThis is a list of companies in digital therapeutics, a healthcare discipline that utilizes digital and Internet-based health technologies to make behavioral and lifestyle changes in patients. Digital therapeutics is a relatively new discipline that uses digital implements like mobile devices, apps, sensors, the Internet of Things, and others to spur behavioral changes in patients. The methodology operates as both a preventative technique for at-risk patients and a treatment for patients with existing conditions. The companies in this list are organized by the health conditions or functions on which they focus.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLifestyle Management App\n\n"}
{"id": "33213330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33213330", "title": "Michigan Alcoholism Screening Test", "text": "Michigan Alcoholism Screening Test\n\nThe Michigan Alcoholism Screening Test (MAST) screening tool was developed in 1971, and is one of the oldest alcoholism-screening tests for identifying dependent drinkers. Its use is constructed for the general population. There are other versions of the MAST screening tool, all of which can be self-administered or via interview with someone who is trained in the tool being used. All MAST screening tools are scored on a point scale system.\n\nAs stated on the Project Cork website, there are 25 questions to the \"MAST\" screening tool. The length of the screening tool makes administering it inconvenient in many busy primary health care settings, along with emergency department settings. The tool also mainly focuses on the patient’s problems throughout their lifetime, rather than the problems the patient is currently showing signs of. The questions throughout the screening tool operate in the past tense, which means that it is less likely to detect any problems with alcohol in its early stages, according to Buddy, T. The extended questioning is a benefit in a sense that one accomplishes a bit of the assessment section when conducting the screening; furthermore, it allows the individual conducting the screening to achieve better communication and rapport with the client.\n\nThe MAST-G screening tool is directed towards screening geriatric clients. With the MAST-G tool, there is a set of 24 questions, rather than the previous 25 questions as in the \"MAST\" tool. There has always been an underlying question as to the sensitivity and reliability when questioning geriatric clients.\n\nAnother related screening tool is the \"brief MAST\", which is much shorter than the previous tests at 10 questions. There is also the Short-MAST tool similar to the brief test; it contains 13 questions. Which tool to use is decided on by the screener.\n"}
{"id": "18622920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18622920", "title": "National Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine", "text": "National Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine\n\nNational Administration of Traditional Chinese Medicine () is a state administration of the People's Republic of China under the jurisdiction of the National Health Commission (formerly the National Health and Family Planning Commission), responsible for the regulation of traditional Chinese medicine industry. \n\nThe current director is Wang Guoqiang. \n"}
{"id": "3931331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3931331", "title": "Nightingale Pledge", "text": "Nightingale Pledge\n\nThe Nightingale Pledge, named in honour of Florence Nightingale, is a modified version of the Hippocratic Oath. Lystra Gretter and a Committee for the Farrand Training School for Nurses in Detroit, Michigan, created the pledge in 1893. Gretter, inspired by the work of Nightingale, the founder of modern nursing, credited the pledge to the work of her committee, but was herself considered \"the moving spirit behind the idea\" for the pledge.\n\nThe Nightingale Pledge is a statement of the ethics and principles of the nursing profession in the United States, and it is not used outside of the US. It included a vow to \"abstain from whatever is deleterious and mischievous\" and to \"zealously seek to nurse those who are ill wherever they may be and whenever they are in need.\" In a 1935 revision to the pledge, Gretter widened the role of the nurse by including an oath to become a \"missioner of health\" dedicated to the advancement of \"human welfare\"—an expansion of nurses' bedside focus to an approach that encompassed public health.\n\nUS nurses have recited the pledge at pinning ceremonies for decades. In recent years, many US nursing schools have made changes to the original or 1935 versions, often removing the \"loyalty to physicians\" phrasing to promote a more independent nursing profession, with its own particular ethical standards.\n\nI solemnly pledge myself before God and in the presence of this assembly to pass my life in purity and to practise my profession faithfully.\nI shall abstain from whatever is deleterious and mischievous, and shall not take or knowingly administer any harmful drug.\nI shall do all in my power to maintain and elevate the standard of my profession and will hold in confidence all personal matters committed to my keeping and all family affairs coming to my knowledge in the practice of my calling.\nI shall be loyal to my work and devoted towards the welfare of those committed to my care.\nI solemnly pledge myself before God and in the presence of this assembly to pass my life in purity and to practise my profession faithfully.\nI \"will\" abstain from whatever is deleterious and mischievous, and \"will\" not take or knowingly administer any harmful drug.\nI \"will\" do all in my power to maintain and elevate the standard of my profession and will hold in confidence all personal matters committed to my keeping and all family affairs coming to my knowledge in the practice of my calling.\n\"With loyalty will I aid the physician in his work, and as a missioner of health, I will dedicate myself to devoted service for human welfare.\"\nBefore God and those assembled here, I solemnly pledge;\nTo adhere to the code of ethics of the nursing profession;\nTo co-operate faithfully with the other members of the nursing team and to carryout \"[sic]\" faithfully and to the best of my ability the instructions of the physician or the nurse who may be assigned to supervise my work;\nI will not do anything evil or malicious and I will not knowingly give any harmful drug or assist in malpractice.\nI will not reveal any confidential information that may come to my knowledge in the course of my work.\nAnd I pledge myself to do all in my power to raise the standards and prestige of the practical nursing;\nMay my life be devoted to service and to the high ideals of the nursing profession.\n"}
{"id": "37339927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37339927", "title": "Occupational Safety and Health Consultants Register", "text": "Occupational Safety and Health Consultants Register\n\nThe Occupational Safety and Health Consultants Register (OSHCR) is a public register of UK-based health and safety advice consultants, set up to assist UK employers and business owners with general advice on workplace health and safety issues. The register was established in response to the Government’s October 2010 report on 'Common Sense, Common Safety', which recommended that all health and safety consultants should be accredited to professional bodies and a web-based directory established.\n\nThe scheme is voluntary for individuals who provide commercial advice on general health and safety management issues. Consultants who are registered on OSHCR, have been assessed by their professional body and have achieved a set standard based on their qualifications and experience. Each consultant must maintain their continuing professional development, abide by a code of conduct and be committed to giving sensible and proportionate advice to businesses.\n\nOn launching the register Work and Pensions Minister Chris Grayling said \"We have launched an official Occupational Safety and Health Consultants Register for those health and safety practitioners who are properly accredited to one of the professional bodies in the industry.\".\n\nMany businesses develop in-house competence to manage their health and safety risks and do not need to use health and safety consultants. Other employers however, may need additional help and the consultants registered on OSHCR will have a status recognised by the participating bodies in the OSHCR scheme.\n\nThe register enables businesses to search for a consultant by geographical area, industry or topic, to enable them to find someone who will provide specific, tailored advice, relevant to their business needs.\n\nThe professional bodies and other stakeholders involved are:\n\n"}
{"id": "56167105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56167105", "title": "Oluyoro Catholic Hospital", "text": "Oluyoro Catholic Hospital\n\nOluyoro Catholic Hospital (established, 1959) is the largest private hospital in Ibadan, Nigeria.\n"}
{"id": "43153159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43153159", "title": "PAX Labs", "text": "PAX Labs\n\nPAX Labs (formerly Ploom) is an American electronic vaporizer company founded in 2007 that markets the PAX vaporizers. The company developed the JUUL (pronounced jewel) e-cigarette; JUUL was spun out as a separate company in 2017.\n\nThe company was founded by James Monsees and Adam Bowen in 2007 under the name Ploom. it has distribution in the United States and Canada and has received $46.7 million in \"series C\" funding from various sources. In August 2016, Tyler Goldman became the CEO of Pax. Monsees left Pax in July 2017. Bowen left Pax in June 2017. Goldman left Pax in 2017.\n\nThe company has been involved with Japan Tobacco International. It markets the PAX vaporizers, starting with the Pax by Ploom. As Pax Labs, Inc., the company then introduced the Pax 2, including the following changes: no moving parts to maintain, smaller and lighter, larger oven, and longer battery life. Pax 2 can be used with loose-leaf tobacco or cannabis. In November 2016, the Pax 3 was released, featuring compatibility with both extracts and plant matter, new tools and accessories, and a complementary smart phone app. The same month, Pax also introduced an extract-based vaporizer called the Era, which operates by heating a concentrated cannabis liquid held in very small containers.\n\nAri Atkins, Pax Labs' R&D engineer, said \"We don’t think a lot about addiction here because we’re not trying to design a cessation product at all.\" He added, \"anything about health is not on our mind.\"\n\nOn June 1, 2015, the company introduced JUUL, a type of e-cigarette that utilizes nicotine salts that exist in leaf-based tobacco, for its key ingredient. They were given a US patent for their nicotine salt preparation in 2015. The nicotine salts are said to create an experience more like smoking than other e-cigarettes on the market. The e-cigarette is shaped like a USB flash drive and recharges using a magnetic USB deck. Each cartridge (called a JUULpod) contains about the same amount of nicotine as one pack of cigarettes and delivers approximately 200 hits. JUUL attempts to deliver a nicotine peak in five minutes, similar to a traditional cigarette. Mango is among the five most popular flavors. A JUUL starter kit sells for about $49.99.\n\nIn 2017 JUUL was spun out of PAX Labs as an independent company. Tyler Goldman, former CEO of PAX Labs, was named CEO of JUUL after the spin-off.\n"}
{"id": "56125488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56125488", "title": "Pantai Jerudong Specialist Centre", "text": "Pantai Jerudong Specialist Centre\n\nPantai Jerudong Specialist Centre (PJSC) is a specialist hospital located in Jerudong, Brunei. It houses The Brunei Cancer Centre (TBCC), a medical centre in the country for treating cancer-related cases, and the Brunei Neuroscience Stroke and Rehabilitation Centre (BNSRC), a medical centre for stroke rehabilitation and other neurological cases.\n"}
{"id": "18632743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18632743", "title": "Polynomial conjoint measurement", "text": "Polynomial conjoint measurement\n\nPolynomial conjoint measurement is an extension of the theory of conjoint measurement to three or more attributes. It was initially developed by the mathematical psychologists David Krantz (1968) and Amos Tversky (1967). The theory was given a comprehensive mathematical exposition in the first volume of \"Foundations of Measurement\" (Krantz, Luce, Suppes & Tversky, 1971), which Krantz and Tversky wrote in collaboration with the mathematical psychologist R. Duncan Luce and philosopher Patrick Suppes. Krantz & Tversky (1971) also published a non-technical paper on polynomial conjoint measurement for behavioural scientists in the journal \"Psychological Review\".\n\nAs with the theory of conjoint measurement, the significance of polynomial conjoint measurement lies in the quantification of natural attributes in the absence of concatenation operations. Polynomial conjoint measurement differs from the two attribute case discovered by Luce & Tukey (1964) in that more complex composition rules are involved.\n\nMost scientific theories involve more than just two attributes; and thus the two variable case of conjoint measurement has rather limited scope. Moreover, contrary to the theory of \"n\" – component conjoint measurement, many attributes are non-additive compositions of other attributes (Krantz, et al., 1971). Krantz (1968) proposed a general schema to ascertain the sufficient set of cancellation axioms for a class of polynomial combination rules he called \"simple polynomials\". The formal definition of this schema given by Krantz, et al., (1971, p. 328) is as follows.\n\nLet formula_1. The set formula_2 is the smallest set of simple polynomials such that:\n\nInformally, the schema argues:\na) single attributes are simple polynomials;\nb) if \"G\" and \"G\" are simple polynomials that are disjoint (i.e. have no attributes in common), then \"G\" + \"G\" and \"G\" formula_10 \"G\" are simple polynomials; and \nc) no polynomials are simple except as given by a) and b).\n\nLet \"A\", \"P\" and \"U\" be single disjoint attributes. From Krantz’s (1968) schema it follows that four classes of simple polynomials in three variables exist which contain a total of eight simple polynomials:\n\nKrantz’s (1968) schema can be used to construct simple polynomials of greater numbers of attributes. For example, if D is a single variable disjoint to A, B, and C then three classes of simple polynomials in four variables are A + B + C + D, D + (B + AC) and D + ABC. This procedure can be employed for any finite number of variables. A simple test is that a simple polynomial can be ‘split’ into either a product or sum of two smaller, disjoint simple polynomials. These polynomials can be further ‘split’ until single variables are obtained. An expression not amenable to ‘splitting’ in this manner is not a simple polynomial (e.g. AB + BC + AC (Krantz & Tversky, 1971)).\n\nLet formula_15, formula_16 and formula_17 be non-empty and disjoint sets. Let \" formula_18 \" be a simple order. Krantz et al. (1971) argued the quadruple formula_19 is a \"polynomial conjoint system\" if and only if the following axioms hold.\n\nformula_51, formula_52, formula_53 and formula_54 implies formula_55 is true for all formula_56 and formula_57.\n\n\nThe quadruple formula_19 falls into one class of three variable simple polynomials by virtue of the joint single cancellation axiom.\n\n"}
{"id": "1204416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1204416", "title": "President's Commission on the HIV Epidemic", "text": "President's Commission on the HIV Epidemic\n\nThe President's Commission on the HIV Epidemic was a commission formed by President Ronald Reagan in 1987 to investigate the AIDS pandemic. It is also known as the Watkins Commission for James D. Watkins, its chairman when the commission issued its final report in 1988.\n\nPresident Reagan issued creating the President's Commission on the HIV Epidemic on June 24, 1987. On June 26, he appointed Dr. W. Eugene Mayberry, CEO of the Mayo Clinic, to chair the commission. Jeff Levi, executive director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force objected to the appointment of someone with no experience with the disease, but others praised Mayberry's experience in both medical research and clinical services. Administration officials said it would resist pressure from gay rights activists to include a representative of the gay community on the commission. Gary L. Bauer, the assistant to the President for policy development who would soon become head of the Family Research Council, said: \"I would be very surprised if an administration opposed to making appointments on the basis of race or sex would agree to make an appointment based on bedroom habits\". The commission was charged with producing a preliminary report in 3 months and a final report within a year.\n\nThe president named the other commission members on July 23. Saying AIDS needed to go \"the way of smallpox and polio\", President Reagan announced the appointments at the commission's first meeting. They included:\n\nAt the commission's first meeting, Lilly and O'Connor, seated side by side, \"chatted cordially\", the \"New York Times\" reported. When the meeting ended, reporters and television cameras surrounded Lilly leaving him, he said, \"shell-shocked\" and \"scared to death\". Senator Gordon Humphrey, a New Hampshire Republican, attacked Lilly's appointment, said the President \"should strive at all costs to avoid sending the message to society—especially to impressionable youth—that homosexuality is simply an alternative lifestyle\" and said the President should have named heterosexual experts to the commission.\n\nThe commission planned visits to review activities in several localities, beginning with a two-day visit to New York City by 5 commissioners in August/September. They visited hospitals and met with volunteers, health-care providers, and representatives of gay organizations. \n\nThe commission's executive director was forced to resign in September \"after a power struggle and allegations of inadequate performance,\" wrote the \"New York Times\", in which Mayberry yielded to the demands of some members of the commission for better staff support than they felt they were receiving. Lee said: \"For whatever reason, lack of staff or whatever, things just weren't happening. With Gene Mayberry out in Rochester, Minnesota, most of the time, the commission felt we had to get a really good, high-powered, full-time person\" to manage the commission staff. On October 7, Mayberry and Myers quit, as did the commission's senior staff adviser for medical and research affairs, Dr. Franklin Cockerill 3d, a Mayo Clinic physician specializing in AIDS. Lilly said he was considering resigning but would wait to see who replaced the chairman and vice-chairman. The administration immediately announced the appointment of James D. Watkins, a retired admiral who had been Chief of Naval Operations. The \"New York Times\" said Mayberry had been \"viewed as a moderating influence on the views of other members who are considered more ideological in their approach\" and that \"[b]y virtually all accounts, the commission has got off to a slow start in recruiting staff and organizing for its task.\" Myers said that \"The personalities are intense\" and that \"I don't feel the commission as currently constituted would be effective.\" Comments from those familiar with the commission and its responsibilities expressed dismay at the resignations. Richard Dunne, executive secretary of GMHC, said: \"The AIDS epidemic is out of control, and it seems, so is the Presidential Commission on AIDS.\" On October 9, DeVos said that the president needed to avoid naming commissioners who were \"emotionally\" involved in the commission's work and that, in one newspaper's account of his statement, \"some homosexuals want to 'capture the agenda'\". \n\nYears later, Watkins' wife reported that Watkins told Reagan \"I'm a sailor and a submariner, and I know nothing about medicine\", and that Regan replied: \"You're exactly who we're looking for.\" On October 11, Watkins announced plans to move quickly with reorganizing the commission staff. Noting that he was speaking to reporters on the day of a political march and rally in Washington, he said, \"We have in Washington today one of the largest gay rights activist demonstrations that we have had—we are sensitive to them as human beings and to their issues\". He continued: \"We haven't done the job to date, I am sorry to say, but I feel comfortable and the other members of the commission feel comfortable that I can take it and mold them together and bring all of our prima donnas, including me, into a nice, neat, unified package.\" He named a new executive director on October 13. \n\nWithout Bauer's approval, Watkins later added two commission members who had track records as critics of the Reagan administration: Kristine Gebbie, Oregon public health commissioner and president of the AIDS Task Force of the American Society of State and Territorial Health Officers and Dr. Benny J. Primm, director of a New York City treatment program for addicts. Primm was the only African American on the commission and the only one with expertise on the intravenous drug use. Of the challenge of heading the commission, Watkins later said: \"I really wasn't sure I could pull it out of the swamp.\"\n\nIn February 1988, the commission released an interim report focused on IV drugs that called for a $20-billion, 10-year effort to fight AIDS. Watkins described it as \"only seven-tenths of a percent of the defense budget.\" William B. Rubenstein, an attorney with the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) who earlier sued the commission anticipating that its membership would bias its findings, found Watkins' work \"a pleasant surprise\".\n\nOn June 2, 1988, Watkins described the commission's draft report and called for state and federal laws to provide anti-discrimination protection for AIDS patients. He called that discrimination \"the rule, not the exception.\" He explained that testing and the identification of sexual partners could not be successful without such protections against discrimination: \"So, once those with HIV are treated like anyone else with a disability, then we will find that what is best for the individual is also best for the public health.\" He said \"Semen, blood, and ignorance surround this epidemic, and we were in that last category\" when starting work. \n\nIn an initial review, Dr. Mathilde Krim, founder of the American Foundation for AIDS Research thought the commission's work both more expert than she expected and free of ideology. Tim Sweeney, executive director of GMHC call the draft report \"courageous, aggressive and compassionate\" and added: \"We challenge the President, Congress and presidential candidates to respond to this report by implementing its recommendations\". The American Public Health Association called it \"an aggressive first step towards developing an integrated national strategy to deal with the AIDS epidemic.\" \n\nThe commission produced its final report on June 24, 1988. The commissioners approved it by a vote of 7 to 6. Its recommendations surprised observers by arguing against every measure advocating by conservative observers, such as mandatory testing, and characterizing partner notification as an inappropriate activity for medical professionals. Its principal findings and recommendations were designed to provide a national strategy for managing the epidemic. It made more than 500 recommendations, which it summarized under these headings:\n\n\nVice President George Bush, who was running for President at the time, immediately endorsed both an executive order and legislation to meet the commission's call for the extension of Federal anti-discrimination protection to those with AIDS and those who test positive for HIV. He emphasized children in his discussions with reporters: \"My conscience has been advising me on AIDS... I'd hate it if a kid of mine got a blood transfusion and my grandson had AIDS and the community discriminated against that child, that innocent child\". Reagan said his drug policy advisor would review the report and make recommendations to him in 30 days. President Reagan later said he opposed such discrimination in principle but took no action before his term as president ended in January 1989. The administration took small steps while ignoring the commission's central points. It acted to inform recipients of blood transfusions that they were at risk, made plans to speed FDA drug approvals, and developed proposals to add facilities for the Centers for Disease Control and the National Institutes of Health.\n\nDr. Anthony Fauci later described the significance of Watkins' military background to the debate over the nation's response to AIDS: \"To have a presidential commission chairman with his background to come out so strongly against stigma and discrimination was a very, very important step\". Randy Shilts called the report \"a sweeping battle plan... AIDS was war, Watkins reasoned, and in a war \"somebody must be in charge\"; that's how you \"get things done\".\" \n\nIn response to inaction on the part of the Reagan administration, Congress passed legislation sponsored by Representative Roy Rowland, a Georgia Democrat and the only physician in Congress, that created the National Commission on AIDS. The legislation specified that commission's members must be \"individuals with experience and/or expertise pertinent to the AIDS epidemic\". It produced several reports over the next 4 years.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21251087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21251087", "title": "Richard Sprigg Steuart", "text": "Richard Sprigg Steuart\n\nRichard Sprigg Steuart (1797–1876) was a Maryland physician and an early pioneer of the treatment of mental illness. He was instrumental in the expansion and modernisation of The Maryland Hospital for the Insane, now known as the Spring Grove Hospital Center, which became his life's work. Spring Grove continues to treat mental illness today, and is the second oldest institution of its kind in the United States. Steuart was relieved of his position as superintendent of the hospital at the start of the American Civil War, because he refused to sign an oath of loyalty to the Union, but he was reinstated at the war's end, and remained superintendent almost until his death in 1876.\n\nSteuart was born in Baltimore in November 1797, younger son of the physician Dr James Steuart and his wife Rebecca. He was the fourth of eight siblings, of whom two died in infancy, of scarlet fever. He was raised at the family mansion at Maryland Square and educated at St Mary's College, Baltimore.\n\nDuring the War of 1812, at the age of seventeen, Steuart volunteered his assistance as aide-de-camp to the Washington Blues, a company of militia raised and commanded by his older brother, Captain (later Major General) George H. Steuart (1790–1867), and served at the Battle of North Point on September 12, 1814, where the Maryland Militia were able to hold off a British attack long enough to shore up the defence of Baltimore. As he later recalled in his memoirs:\n\nAfter the war, Steuart began the study of law under Brigadier General William H. Winder, who had commanded the United States forces at the Battle of Bladensberg and was court-martialled afterwards. However, Steuart abandoned law in favor of medicine, which he studied under Dr William Donaldson in 1818 at Maryland Medical University. He graduated with his M.D. in 1822, publishing in the same year a work \"On the Action of Arteries\". After graduation he went into partnership with Donaldson at his general medical practice in Baltimore for seventeen years and, after Donaldson's death, succeeded to the practice. Early on however he began to specialize in the relatively neglected field of mental illness, and in 1834 he became President of the Board of Visitors of the Maryland Hospital for the Insane.\n\nIn 1843 Steuart was elected to the Professorship of the Theory and Practice of Physic at the University of Maryland. Later, in 1848-49, and again from 1850–51, he served as president of the Medical and Chirurgical faculty of the State of Maryland.\n\nBy 1853 he was described by the American Journal of the Medical Sciences as \"well known as one of the most eminent physicians of this city [of Baltimore]\",\n\nSteuart's most notable contribution to the field of mental illness was his work for the Maryland Hospital for the Insane (founded in 1797), where he became President of the Board and Medical Superintendent, and which became his life's work. By the mid-nineteenth century The hospital's bed capacity was no longer adequate, and Steuart managed to obtain authorization and funding from the Maryland General Assembly for the construction of a new, larger facility at Spring Grove. In co-operation with the social reformer Dorothea Dix, who in 1852 gave an impassioned speech to the Maryland legislature, Steuart chaired the committee known as the Commissioners for Erecting a Hospital for the Insane, that selected the Hospital's present site in Catonsville.\n\nThe cost of purchasing of land for the hospital was $14,000, of which $12,340 was raised through private contributions, with Steuart himself personally contributing $1,000, a very large sum at the time. The purchase was completed in 1853, but construction of the new buildings was delayed by the Civil War, and the hospital was not finally completed until 1872, when it was described by one contemporary as \"one of the largest and best appointed Insane Asylums in the United States\".\n\nSteuart's brother, Major General George H. Steuart, had two sons who suffered from mental illness, and it is possible that this was one of the causes of Steuart's particular interest in Spring Grove Hospital and the treatment of mental illness.\n\nIn 1842 Steuart inherited from his uncle William Steuart a tobacco plantation comprising around of land and about 150 slaves, at Dodon, near the South River in Anne Arundel County, Maryland. Dodon had been purchased by Steuart's grandfather in around 1740, and the inheritance made Steuart a wealthy landowner and slaveholder. As a result, Steuart gave up his general medical practice, after what he described as \"23 years of hard professional life\" in order to concentrate on managing his new estate.\n\nLike many Southern slaveholders, Steuart held conflicting views on the question of slavery. Although he recognized that the South's \"peculiar institution\" could not continue indefinitely, he was hostile to abolitionist efforts to end it by force.\n\nFrom 1828 Steuart served on the Board of Managers of the Maryland State Colonization Society, of which Charles Carroll of Carrollton, one of the co-signers of the Declaration of Independence, was president. Steuart's father, James Steuart, was vice-president, and his brother George H. Steuart was also on the Board. The MSCS was a branch of the American Colonization Society, an organization dedicated to returning black Americans to lead free lives in African states such as Liberia.\n\nIn an open letter to John L. Carey, in 1845, published in Baltimore by the printer John Murphy, Steuart asked rhetorically: \n\nSteuart was envious of the greater relative prosperity of the Northern States, and especially their much greater population growth. In Maryland, he argued, slavery held back economic progress:\n\nMuch though he may have opposed the institution of slavery in principle, Steuart was strongly opposed to the radical agenda of the Abolitionists. Instead, he recommended voluntary emancipation by the slave holders, leading to the repatriation to Africa of free black settlers:\n\nThe outbreak of the Civil War in 1861 found Steuart and his family sympathetic to the Southern cause, though Maryland did not secede from the Union. Pre-war loyalties in Maryland were divided between North and South, but the Northern cause prevailed. In April, the city was shaken by the Baltimore riot of 1861, as Union soldiers travelled through the city by rail. Steuart wrote:\n\nSteuart was among those who placed pressure on Governor Hicks to summon the state Legislature to vote on secession, following Hicks to Annapolis with a number of fellow citizens:\nOn April 22 Governor Hicks finally announced that the state legislature would meet in a special session in Frederick, a strongly pro-Union town. In the end, Steuart's efforts to persuade Maryland to secede from the Union were in vain. On April 29, the Maryland Legislature voted 53–13 against secession. and the state was swiftly occupied by Union soldiers to prevent any reconsideration.\n\nThe political situation remained uncertain until May 13, 1861 when Union troops occupied the state, restoring order and preventing a vote in favour of Southern secession, and by late summer Maryland was firmly in the hands of Union soldiers. Arrests of Confederate sympathizers soon followed, and Steuart's brother, Major General Steuart, fled to Charlottesville, Virginia, after which much of his family's property was confiscated by the Federal Government. The family's Baltimore residence, Maryland Square, was seized by the Union Army and Jarvis Hospital was soon erected on the grounds of the estate, to care for Federal wounded.\n\nDodon was not confiscated by the Union but, during the course of the war, horses were raised and trained and then smuggled south for Confederate forces, as well as medical supplies such as quinine. As a result, Dodon was often raided by Union troops, frequently forcing Steuart to flee into hiding. According to a family memoir:\n\nSteuart's support for the Confederacy came at a high price. He was relieved of his duties at the Hospital after he refused to sign an oath of loyalty to the Union. Later that year, the Baltimore resident W W Glenn described Steuart as a fugitive from the authorities:\n\nAfter the war, in 1868, Steuart was eventually reinstated to the hospital as superintendent, and remained in charge when its operations moved to the newly completed hospital at Spring Grove in 1872, thereby living to see the fulfillment of his life's work and ambition. However, he was once again removed in 1875 when the board, under his leadership, mortgaged the hospital to a group of private investors, after the Maryland Legislature had failed to fully fund its operations.\n\nHe gave an address in 1876 to the Alumni Association of Maryland Medical University, but died the same year on July 13, and is buried at his family estate of Dodon in Maryland.\n\nOn January 25, 1824 Steuart married Maria Louisa Bernabeu (1800–1883). They had nine children, of whom six survived to adulthood:\n\nHis daughter, Maria Louisa Steuart (1852–1938) painted her grandfather's portrait.\n\nSteuart's building at Spring Grove (known at various times as \"The Main Building\", \"The Center Building\" or \"The Administration Building,\") remained the main hospital facility for almost 100 years, though it was eventually demolished in 1963, when it was replaced by more modern construction. Spring Grove continues to treat psychiatric illness to this day, and is the second oldest institution of its kind in the United States. However, possibly because of Steuart's enthusiastic support for the Confederate \"Lost Cause\", no building at Spring Grove Hospital Center bears his name.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28487068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28487068", "title": "Role-based assessment", "text": "Role-based assessment\n\nModern psychological testing can be traced back to 1908 with the introduction of the first successful intelligence test, the Binet-Simon Scale. From the Binet-Simon came the revised version, the Stanford-Binet, which was used in the development of the Army Alpha and Army Beta tests used by the United States military. During World War I, Robert S. Woodworth developed the Woodworth Personal Data Sheet (WPDS), to determine which soldiers were better prepared to handle the stresses of combat. The WPDS signaled a shift in the focus of psychological testing from intellect to personality.\n\nBy the 1940s, the quantitative measurement of personality traits had become a central theme in psychology, and it has remained so into the 2000s. During this time, numerous variations and versions of ‘personality tests’ have been created, including the widely used Myers-Briggs, DISC, and Cattell’s 16PF Questionnaire.\n\nRole-Based Assessment (RBA) differs significantly from personality testing. Instead of quantifying individual personality factors, RBA’s methodology was developed, from its very beginnings, to make qualitative observations of human interaction. In this sense, RBA is a form of behavioral simulation. Understanding the quality of a person’s behavior on a team can be a valuable adjunct to other forms of evaluation (such as data on experience, knowledge, skills, and personality) because the ability to successfully cooperate and collaborate with others is fundamental to organizational performance.\n\nIn TGI Role-Based Assessment, ‘Coherence’ describes a positive and constructive orientation to working with others to achieve common goals, overcome obstacles, and meet organizational needs. \n\nA person’s ‘Role’ describes their strongest affinity for, or attraction to, serving a certain type of organizational need, e.g., planning for the future vs. executing current tasks vs. preserving and sharing knowledge. \n\nEach RBA report includes a detailed section on ‘Teaming Characteristics’, which are derived, in part, from the relationship between a person’s level of Coherence and their unique Role (or Roles). As their name suggests, Teaming Characteristics can help managers and coaches to understand how well a person will ‘fit’ within a team and/or adapt to their job responsibilities.\n\nDr. Janice Presser began collaborating with Dr. Jack Gerber in 1988 to develop tools and methods for measuring the fundamental elements of human ‘teaming’ behavior, with a goal of improving individual and team performance. Their work combines decodes of research, blending Dr. Presser’s earlier work in family and social relationships with Dr. Gerber’s ‘Mosaic Figures’ test, which had been designed to produce qualitative information on how individuals view other people.\n\nThree generations of assessments were developed, tested and used in the context of actual business performance. The initial Executive Behavior Assessment was focused on the behavior of persons with broad responsibility for organizational performance. The second iteration, called the Enhanced Executive Behavior Assessment, incorporated metrics on the behavior of executives working in teams. Drs. Presser and Gerber then successfully applied their testing methodology to team contributors outside of the executive ranks, and as development and testing efforts continued, Role-Based Assessment (RBA) emerged. \n\nBy 1999, RBA was established as a paper-based assessment, and was being sold for use in pre-hire screening and organizational development. Drs Presser and Gerber formed The Gabriel Institute in 2001, with the goal of making RBA available to a greater audience via the Internet. \n\nMid-year in 2009, TGI Role-Based Assessment became generally available as an online assessment instrument. Later in 2009, the Society for Human Resource Management (SHRM) published a two-part white paper by Dr. Presser, which introduced ground- breaking ideas on the measurement and valuation of human synergy in organizations, and an approach to the creation of a strong, positively oriented human infrastructure.\n\nThe most common use of TGI Role-Based Assessment is in pre-hire screening evaluations. RBA’s focus on ‘teaming’ behavior offers a different way to allegedly predict how an individual will fit with company culture, on a given team, and how they are likely to respond to specific job requirements. While other pre-hire testing may run the \"risk of violating the ADA\" (Americans with Disabilities Act), this does not appear to be an issue with Role-Based Assessment.\nRBA is also claimed to have unique potential for strengthening a human infrastructure. Results from RBA reports can be aggregated, providing quantitative data that is used for analysis and resolution of team performance problems, and to identify and select candidates for promotion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35138137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35138137", "title": "Silver Lining Foundation", "text": "Silver Lining Foundation\n\nThe Silver Lining Foundation (,YúnCǎiXíngDòng ) was founded in Nanning, Guangxi, China, in 2007. Silver Lining started as a small shop that sold hand-crafted jewelry. Nearly all the employees were disabled orphans. In 2009, an orphanage (Gūan ài Zhōng Xīn) was instituted in Dahua, Guangxi, China, and in 2011 a rehabilitation center for kids diagnosed with cerebral palsy was built. The founders of the Silver Lining Organization are Chris and Lydia Yeung, who currently live in Nanning, China with two of their children.\n\nTo improve the lives of impoverished children and their families and to educate, care for, and show love to all individuals, equipping them with the proper tools to give back to their community.\n\nIn 2005, Chris and Lydia Yeung, along with their three children, came to China to work at an orphanage for disabled children. They returned to the United States that year, but in 2007, the Yeung family once again returned to China. Chris and Lydia started to work with the disabled orphans they met in 2005 and discovered that many of them were without jobs because of their disabilities. Lydia decided to help these young adults and started a swarovski crystal shop in a small apartment.\nIn 2008, Silver Lining started to sponsor impoverished families whose children had cerebral palsy. The next year, Silver Lining foundation signed a five-year contract to reserve a building for future use as their first orphanage. In 2010, Silver Lining started to sponsor poverty stricken children in the DaHua mountain rural areas. \nIn the same year, the Silver Lining Foundation was officially recognized as a Non-Profit Organization by the Chinese and Hong Kong government. Silver Lining created a rehabilitation center for cerebral palsy children in 2011.\n\nThe first of the Silver Lining Foundation projects, the Silver Lining Workshop, was established in 2007. Lydia said that the purpose of starting this workshop was to give hope and opportunities to individuals society had overlooked. The Silver Lining Workshop offers employees musical lessons, which have resulted in the starting of a band called \"Inspiration,\" by the handicapped orphans.\n\nIn 2009, Silver Lining started an orphanage in DaHua, Guangxi, China. The Silver Lining Care Center adopts a new dimension to the structure of the orphanage. In order to provide a healthy home environment for the children, every six kids are assigned to a married couple, who live under the same roof.\n\nAs of 2010, the Silver Lining foundation has been sponsoring a school located in the poverty stricken mountains of DaHua. Silver Lining provides vegetables, meat, blankets, clothes, and beds for the children who live at school during the school year.\n\nIn 2012, the Silver Lining Rehabilitation Center opened for children with cerebral palsy. The Silver Lining Rehabilitation Center offers free rehabilitation care for families and their children. Their goal is to both physically and psychologically heal the victims: to help them be holistically healthy.\n\n"}
{"id": "10867090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10867090", "title": "Smokers Express", "text": "Smokers Express\n\nSmokers Express (or Smokers Express Airlines) was a Cocoa Beach, Florida-based company that would have provided smoking flights to destinations within the United States. Founded in 1993 by William Walts and George \"Mickey\" Richardson, the company never received enough funding to begin operations.\n\nUpset not only by the non-smoking policy of most major airlines but also by the quality of other amenities such as food and in-flight entertainment, Walts conceived the idea of a \"smokers airline\". His company would not only allow smoking on flights, but encourage it by handing out free cigarettes and \"full-size\" ashtrays during flight. The airline also advertised free headsets (for listening to in-flight entertainment) and \"real food for real people\", which consisted of hamburgers, pizza, and steaks.\n\nBecause Federal Aviation Administration restrictions prohibit smoking on flights within the United States, Smokers Express was intended to be a membership-based airline. Customers would have been required to join and pay a $25 yearly fee, and only persons age 21 or older would have been allowed to join. A side effect to this policy was a promise that the flights would be free of \"screaming babies.\"\n\nThe company began by purchasing three McDonnell Douglas DC-9 aircraft, with the intention of leasing 27 additional DC-9s.\nThe aircraft would have been renovated with a high-volume air recirculation system, as well as improved flame-retardant carpet.\n\nThe airline originally intended to fly to 11 different destinations, adding more as additional funding enabled. The planned initial destinations were:\n\nThe first flight would have taken place on August 16, 1993.\n\nSmokers Express was designed to be an employee-owned company. It relied mostly on membership dues and ticket sales, however, no tickets were ever sold. The company did not advertise directly, but relied on word-of-mouth, various articles and TV news references. Despite what the company perceived as a positive response to their concept, it failed to raise enough funds to begin operations.\n\n"}
{"id": "56639170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56639170", "title": "Squamous-cell carcinoma of the vagina", "text": "Squamous-cell carcinoma of the vagina\n\nSquamous-cell carcinoma of the vagina is a potentially invasive type of cancer that forms in the tissues of the vagina. Though uncommon, squamous-cell cancer of the vagina (SCCV) is the most common type of vaginal cancer. It is further subdivided inot the following subtypes: keratinizing, nonkeratinizing, basaloid, and warty. It forms in squamous cells, the thin, flat cells lining the vagina. Squamous cell vaginal cancer spreads slowly and usually stays near the vagina, but may spread to the lungs, liver, or bone. This is the most common type of vaginal cancer. SCCV accounts for approximately 85% of vaginal cancer cases and initially spreads superficially within the vaginal wall. It can later invade other vaginal tissues. The carcinoma can metastasize to the lungs, and less frequently in liver, bone, or other sites. SCC of the vagina is associated with a high rate of infection with oncogenic strains of human papillomavirus (HPV) and has many risk factors in common with cervical cancer.\n\nSCCV may not cause early signs or symptoms and may be found during a routine pelvic exam and Pap test. Signs and symptoms may be caused by other types of vaginal cancer or by other conditions:\n\n\nDiagnosis includes a complete assessment of medical history and physical examination. A pelvic exam is typically performed. Other diagnostic procedures used are the pap test, colposcopy and biopsy. Other procedures are used to aid in diagnosis: chest x-ray, CT scan (CAT scan), MRI (magnetic resonance imaging), PET scan (positron emission tomography scan), and cystoscopy.\n\nThose most affected are:\n\nTreatment depends upon the following:\n\n"}
{"id": "456396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=456396", "title": "Strontium unit", "text": "Strontium unit\n\nThe strontium unit is a unit used to measure the amount of radioactivity from strontium-90, a radionuclide found in nuclear fallout, in a subject's body. Since the human body absorbs strontium as if it were calcium, incorporating it into the skeleton, its presence is very common. One strontium unit is equal to one picocurie from strontium-90 per gram of calcium (37 becquerels per kilogram) in the subject's skeleton.\n\nThe United States National Academy of Sciences holds that the maximum safe measure of strontium-90 in a person is one hundred strontium units (3700 Bq/kg). The average American is estimated to have three to four strontium units.\n\nThe strontium unit was formerly known briefly as the sunshine unit, a term promoted by the United States Department of Defense until public ridicule brought about its disuse. (Among the sources of this outcry was a George Carlin performance, released on the CD \"\", during a passage on governmental euphemisms for dangerous or unethical activities: \"The Pentagon actually measures nuclear radiation in something they call 'sunshine units'!\")\n\n"}
{"id": "42378289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42378289", "title": "Suboptimal health", "text": "Suboptimal health\n\nSuboptimal health status (SHS), or subhealth or sub-health(), can be defined as a state characterized by some disturbances in psychological behaviors or physical characteristics, or in some indices of medical examination, with no typical pathologic features. It is considered as a therapeutic working concept which defines an intermediate stage between health and disease, which is not quite either status. Human persons who are sub-healthy have any of a range of uncomfortable symptoms but without any obvious and diagnosable illnesses which can be identified through standard medical observation methods. This concept was first presented as \"the third state\" by the scholar of former Soviet Union, Berkman, in the mid-1980s. It is also interpreted as different terms like \"intermediate state\", \"grey state\" or \"a general malaise\". Sub-health is a term which is widely used by Chinese people, or in connection with traditional Chinese medicine (TCM).\n\nSome feel that the notion of SHS has been invented to sell people medical products.\n\nSigns and symptoms considered indicators of SHS include aches, chronic fatigue, indigestion, sleep disorders, congestion, nervousness, distraction, nausea, and poor mood.\n\nSHS was measured by the suboptimal health questionnaire (SHSQ-25) including 25 items. Each subject was asked to rate a specific statement on a five-point Likert-type scale, based on how often they suffered various specific complaints in the preceding 3 months: (1) never or almost never, (2) occasionally, (3) often, (4) very often, and (5) always. The raw scores of 1 to 5 on the questionnaire were recoded as 0 to 4. SHS scores were calculated for each respondent by summing the ratings for the 25 items. A high score represents a high level of SHS (poor health). The Cronbach’s α coefficient of the SHSQ-25 was 0.91, indicating good internal consistency. The final questionnaire congregated into a score (SHSQ-25) which could significantly distinguish among several abnormal conditions and could be used as a translational medicine instrument for health measuring in the general population.\n\nAnother criteria for diagnosis of subhealth was defined as the presence of ≥ 1 of the following abnormalities: body mass index ≥ 25 kg/m2 or waist circumference ≥ 102 cm in men and 88 cm in women; systolic pressure 120-139 mmHg and/or diastolic pressure 80-89 mmHg; serum triglyceride level ≥ 150 mg/dL and/or total cholesterol level ≥ 200 mg/dL and/or high-density lipoprotein cholesterol level < 40 mg/dL in men and 50 mg/dL in women; serum glucose level 110–125 mg/dL; estimated glomerular filtration rate 60-89 ml/min/1.73 m2; levels of liver enzymes in liver function tests between 41-59 U/L, or with fatty liver disease but < 33% of affected hepatocytes; levels of oxidative stress biomarkers beyond the reference range of 95%; or problems with both sleep quality and psychological state.\n\nDespite significant advances in medicine and public health, suboptimal health persists. Understanding health on a population level is an approach that seeks to improve the health of an entire population or subpopulation, to unravel variations in health outcomes, and to identify effective strategies for reducing or eliminating inequities both within and between population groups. \nAny foundation for understanding population health considers: 1) how population health is defined and measured; 2) the biological, behavioral, cultural, social, and environmental determinants of population health; 3) the role of healthcare and economic decision-making in population health; 4) and intervention and policy strategies for improving population health.\n\nThe parameters of measuring what we term 'health' and 'wellness' is a matter of ongoing health research and debate. Definition of terms is foundational, covering alternative medicine, workforce wellness, freedom from disease, and the U.N. definition of the highest achievable standard of individual and population well-being.\n\nEngineers have proposed digital, handheld methods for many of those individuals to closely monitor their own health conditions, hoping to get need demands of both SHS groups and aging populations. Such a proposed healthcare system, which can provide self-monitoring of one's health status, early warning of disease, and even an instant report of the physiological signal analysis for individuals, is becoming more and more popular among many Chinese persons for whom it could be made available, in part because its theoretical foundations are based in traditional Chinese medicine.\n\nSHS is associated with cardiovascular risk factors and contributes to the development of cardiovascular disease. SHS should be recognized in the health care system, especially in primary care. A correlation between SHS and systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, plasma glucose, total cholesterol and high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol among men, and a correlation between SHS and systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, total cholesterol, triglycerides and HDL cholesterol among women were found. The SHSQ-25 is a self-rated questionnaire of perceived health complaints, which can be used as a new instrument for predictive, preventive and personalized medicine (PPPM). An ongoing longitudinal SHS cohort survey (China Sub-optimal Health Cohort Study, COACS) consisting of 50,000 participants will provide a powerful health trial to use SHSQ-25 for its application to PPPM through patient stratification and therapy monitoring using innovative technologies of predictive diagnostics and prognosis: an effort of paradigm shift from reactive to predictive medicine. one study also confirmed the association between chronic psychosocial stress and SHS, indicating that improving the psychosocial work environment may reduce SHS and then prevent chronic diseases effectively. SHS is associated with endothelial dysfunction. Integration of suboptimal health status and endothelial dysfunction provides a novel tool to allow people to get a more holistic picture of both subjective and objective health measures, and also can be applied to routine screening for risks of cardiovascular diseases. To investigate the causative effect of SHS in non-communicable chronic diseases (NCD), China suboptimal health cohort study (COACS), a longitudinal study starting from 2013 was initiated. Phase I of the study involved a cross-sectional survey aimed at identifying the risk/protective factors associated with SHS; and Phase II: a longitudinal yearly follow-up study investigating how SHS contributes to the incidence and pattern of NCD.\n\n"}
{"id": "10988580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10988580", "title": "Tanzania Commission for AIDS", "text": "Tanzania Commission for AIDS\n\nThe Tanzania Commission for AIDS (TACAIDS) is the Tanzanian government organization assigned with the task of coordinating Tanzania's response to the HIV/AIDS.\n\nTACAIDS was established on 1 December 2000 in an announcement by President Benjamin Mkapa.\n\nReginald Mengi is a former commissioner of TACAIDS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19497189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19497189", "title": "The Gordie Foundation", "text": "The Gordie Foundation\n\nThe Gordie Center for Substance Abuse Prevention is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization that was founded in Dallas, Texas as The Gordie Foundation. The name of the non-profit changed in 2010 when The Gordie Foundation merged with the University of Virginia's Center for Alcohol and Substance Education to form the Gordie Center for Substance Abuse Prevention. The Foundation's mission is \"to provide today's young people with the skills to navigate the dangers of alcohol, binge drinking, peer pressure and hazing.\" The Gordie Foundation was created in memory of 18-year-old Gordie Bailey who died on September 17, 2004 following a hazing incident involving alcohol in the Chi Psi fraternity house at the University of Colorado campus in Boulder, Colorado. Actress Robin Wright is the Honorary Spokesperson for The Gordie Foundation.\n\nIn the summer of 2010, the Gordie Foundation and the University of Virginia Center for Alcohol and Substance Education merged to form the Gordie Center for Substance Abuse Prevention. All operations that were previously under the Gordie Foundation are currently maintained through the Gordie Center, now located in Charlottesville, Virginia.\n\nOn the evening of September 16, 2004, Lynn Gordon Bailey Jr. (\"Gordie\") and twenty-six other Chi Psi pledges dressed in coats and ties for \"bid night\" were taken blindfolded to the Arapaho Roosevelt National Forest where they were told to consume four 1.75 liter bottles of 80-proof Ten High Bourbon Whiskey and six 1.5 liter bottles of Carlo Rossi wine around a bonfire in 30 minutes. Older active fraternity men stated to the group that “no one is leaving here until these are gone.” When the group returned to the Fraternity Lodge, Gordie was visibly intoxicated and did not drink any more. He was placed on a couch to “sleep it off” at approximately 11:00pm. Later in the evening, while Gordie was unconscious, his brothers used permanent markers to scrawl demeaning sayings and pictures on all parts of his body. Gordie was left alone for 10 hours before he was found dead the next morning, face down on the floor.\n\nFollowing Gordie's death, his mother Leslie Lanahan brought legal action against the Alpha Psi Delta chapter of Chi Psi, located in Boulder, Colorado. Following four and a half years of negotiation, the two sides agreed to a settlement in March 2009. Among the terms, Chi Psi agreed that Gordie had indeed been hazed by brothers of the chapter on the evening of September 16, 2004. The national fraternity also agreed to use Gordie's story in all pledge education about hazing, as well as to require that all chapters, or \"Alphas\", recruit a live-in adult supervisor. In accordance with a request by Chi Psi, details of the financial portion of the settlement cannot be disclosed.\n\nGordie was 18 years old when he died. One month earlier, he had enrolled as a freshman at the University of Colorado Leeds School of Business. In his four weeks at the University, Gordie had been named to the club lacrosse team and had become a pledge at Chi Psi Fraternity. Gordie went to Colorado after three years at Deerfield Academy in Deerfield, Massachusetts where he participated in athletics, music and drama. In his senior year he was co-captain of the varsity football team playing both middle linebacker and offensive guard. He also started at defense on the school’s New England championship lacrosse team.\n\nWhile a senior, Gordie mentored younger students as a Proctor in an underclass dormitory. In his spare time, he and his fellow Proctors made humorous videos with their Proctees. Prior to attending Deerfield, Gordie attended St. Mark’s School of Texas in Dallas and The Lamplighter School, also in Dallas.\n\nThe Gordie Foundation focuses on public awareness of the consequences of alcohol abuse among students. For example, alcohol-related incidents claim the lives of over 1700 students annually. The Gordie Foundation encourages students to take responsibility for their friends. For example, the Foundation encourages students to \"save a life\" and \"make the call\" for help to prevent another senseless tragedy. Another of their educational phrases is, \"Friends Check Friends.\" I.e., never leave an intoxicated person alone to \"sleep off\" the effects of alcohol. The amount of alcohol it takes to pass out is dangerously close to the amount it takes to kill. Use the acronym PUBS to check for signs of alcohol poisoning: Puking while passed out, Unresponsive (to pinching or stimuli), Breathing (irregular, slow or none at all), Skin (cold, blue or clammy). Any of these should trigger a call to 911, as should a slowing in the heart rate or respiratory rate.\n\n\"Gordie's Call\" is a national campaign with a mission to prevent alcohol abuse and hazing through the use of peer intervention among young adults. The primary campaign initiative is to eliminate deaths from alcohol abuse and hazing, challenge attitudes about the true risks of these activities, and to promote healthy campus environments.\n\nThe Gordie Foundation, with director Pete Schuermann, has produced both a full-length and a shortened, content edited documentary film entitled HAZE that explores the environment on today’s college campuses that leads to alcohol-related deaths like Gordie's. Highlighting many aspects of Gordie’s story, the film illuminates the heavily veiled and largely misunderstood realm of college binge and competitive drinking and hazing, and the continually mounting risks associated with such behavior. HAZE features graphic and disturbing scenes of the real-life consequences of alcohol abuse and acts of hazing perpetrated against young men and women by their peers. Psychologists, researchers, college student affairs personnel and students themselves offer valuable insights into the environment many college students and even high school students encounter during what are intended to be formative and enlightening years. What emerges is evidence of an unsettling trend toward recklessness and overindulgence which most students regard with ambivalence.\n\nHAZE has been selected to be screened at several prestigious film festivals, including its premiere at the Hamptons International Film Festival. It has also been selected to be shown in 2009 at the Dallas International Film Festival. the Newport Beach Film Festival and the Indie Spirit Film Festival in Colorado Springs, Colorado. In 2011, it was shown at the Virginia Film Festival in Charlottesville, Virginia.\n\nNational GORDIEday is held annually in the fall, with the seventh-annual event scheduled to take place on September 25, 2014 in conjunction with National Hazing Prevention Week events center on spreading awareness about the dangers of binge and competitive drinking, the warning signs of alcohol poisoning, and the inherent risks involved with hazing. Events include handing out awareness materials, posting flyers, screening the documentary HAZE and hosting speakers.\n\n"}
{"id": "57731950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57731950", "title": "Thomas Hewson", "text": "Thomas Hewson\n\nThomas Hewson (27 September 1783 - 1831) was the president of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI) in 1819.\n\n"}
{"id": "734449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=734449", "title": "Trifocal lenses", "text": "Trifocal lenses\n\nTrifocals are eyeglasses with lenses that have three regions which correct for distance, intermediate (arm's length), and near vision. John Isaac Hawkins developed the trifocal lens in 1827.\n\nTrifocals are mostly used by people with advanced presbyopia who have been prescribed 2 diopters or more of reading addition. The intermediate addition is normally half the reading addition. So, for someone with a distance prescription of −4 diopters and a reading addition of +3, the reading portion of their trifocals would have a net power of −1, and the intermediate segment would be −2.5 diopters. \n\nTrifocal lenses are made in similar styles to bifocals, but with an additional segment for intermediate vision above the reading section. A common style is the 7×28 flat-top or D-shaped segment, 28 mm wide, with a 7 mm high intermediate segment. Larger intermediate segments are available, and are particularly useful for people who spend a lot of time using computers.\n\nTrifocals are becoming rarer as more people choose to wear progressive lenses.\n"}
{"id": "44271817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44271817", "title": "Uganda Medical and Dental Practitioners Council", "text": "Uganda Medical and Dental Practitioners Council\n\nUganda Medical and Dental Practitioners Council (UMDPC), is a quasi-government professional organisation, established by Act of Parliament, responsible for licensing, monitoring and regulating the practice of medicine and dentistry in the country. The organization's mandate includes the regulation of both the practitioners and the practices from where they practice their professions.\n\nThe UMDPC is located at Block 5, Plot number 442 Kafeero Zone road - Mulago, in Kampala, the capital of Uganda, and the largest city in that East African country. The coordinates of the UMDPC offices are:0°19'58.0\"N, 32°34'40.0\"E (Latitude:0.332778; Longitude:32.577778).\n\nThe Uganda Medical and Practitioners Council was established in 1913. The laws governing its mandate and functions have been revised from time to time, as the practice of medicine and dentistry has advanced. The current parliamentary act that governs the council was promulgated in 1996. It is known as the \"Uganda Medical and Dental Practitioners Act 11, of 1996\".\n\nThe council is mandated by the Uganda Ministry of Health to carry out the following functions:\n\n\n"}
