{"id": "1227829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1227829", "title": "1968 flu pandemic", "text": "1968 flu pandemic\n\nThe 1968 flu pandemic was a category 2 flu pandemic whose outbreak in 1968 and 1969 killed an estimated one million people worldwide. It was caused by an H3N2 strain of the influenza A virus, descended from H2N2 through antigenic shift, a genetic process in which genes from multiple subtypes reassorted to form a new virus. Because it originated in Hong Kong, the pandemic is also referred to as Hong Kong flu.\n\nThe first record of the outbreak in Hong Kong appeared on 13 July 1968. By the end of July 1968, extensive outbreaks were reported in Vietnam and Singapore. Despite the fatality of the 1957 Asian Flu in China, little improvement had been made regarding the handling of such epidemics. \"The Times\" newspaper was actually the first source to sound alarm regarding this new possible pandemic.\n\nBy September 1968, the flu reached India, the Philippines, northern Australia and Europe. That same month, the virus entered California from returning Vietnam War troops but did not become widespread in the United States until December 1968. It would reach Japan, Africa and South America by 1969. The outbreak in Hong Kong, where density is about 500 people per acre, reached maximum intensity in two weeks, lasting six months in total from July to December 1968, however worldwide deaths from this virus peaked much later, in December 1968 and January 1969. By that time, public health warnings and virus descriptions were issued in the scientific and medical journals.\n\nIn comparison to other pandemics, the Hong Kong flu yielded a low death rate, with a case-fatality ratio below 0.5% making it a category 2 disease on the Pandemic Severity Index. The pandemic infected an estimated 500,000 Hong Kong residents, 15% of the population. In the United States, approximately 33,800 people died, including conjoined twins Daisy and Violet Hilton in January 1969.\n\nThe same virus returned the following years: a year later, in late 1969 and early 1970, and in 1972.\n\nFewer people died during this pandemic than the two previous pandemics for various reasons:\n\nFlu symptoms lasted four to five days (some symptoms lasted up to two weeks).\nThose over the age of 65 were most likely to die.\n\nThe Hong Kong flu was the first known outbreak of the H3N2 strain, though there is serologic evidence of H3N1 infections in the late 19th century.\nThe virus was isolated in Queen Mary Hospital.\n\nIn the 1968 pandemic vaccine became available one month after the outbreaks peaked in the US.\n\nBoth the H2N2 and H3N2 pandemic flu strains contained genes from avian influenza viruses. The new subtypes arose in pigs coinfected with avian and human viruses and were soon transferred to humans. Swine were considered the original \"intermediate host\" for influenza, because they supported reassortment of divergent subtypes. However, other hosts appear capable of similar coinfection (e.g., many poultry species), and direct transmission of avian viruses to humans is possible. H1N1 may have been transmitted directly from birds to humans (Belshe 2005).\n\nThe Hong Kong flu strain shared internal genes and the neuraminidase with the 1957 Asian Flu (H2N2). Accumulated antibodies to the neuraminidase or internal proteins may have resulted in much fewer casualties than most pandemics. However, cross-immunity within and between subtypes of influenza is poorly understood.\n\n\"Three strains of Hong Kong influenza virus isolated from humans were compared with a strain isolated from a calf for their ability to cause disease in calves. One of the human strains. A/Aichi/2/68, was detected for five days in a calf, but all three failed to cause signs of disease. Strain A/cal/Duschanbe/55/71 could be detected for seven days and caused an influenza-like illness in calves.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13780630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13780630", "title": "Abortion in Italy", "text": "Abortion in Italy\n\nAbortion in Italy became legal in May 1978, when Italian women were allowed to terminate a pregnancy on request during the first 90 days. A proposal to repeal the law was considered in a 1981 national referendum, but was rejected by nearly 68% of voters; another referendum aimed at eliminating the restrictions was rejected by 88.4%.\nItalian women are eligible to request an abortion for health, economic or social reasons, including the circumstances under which conception occurred. Abortions are performed free-of-charge in public hospitals or in private structures authorized by the regional health authorities. The law also allows termination in the second trimester of the pregnancy only when the life of the woman would be at risk if the pregnancy is carried to term or the fetus carries genetic or other serious malformations which would put the mother at risk of serious psychological or physical consequences.\n\nThe law states that, unless a state of emergency requires immediate intervention, a period of seven days, not compulsory, has to occur between the medical authorization and the effective date of the termination. Although the law only permits pregnancy termination to women at least eighteen years old, it also includes provisions for women younger than eighteen, who can request the intervention of a judge when the legal tutor refuses the intervention, or there are reasons to exclude the legal tutor from the process. The judge has to make a decision within five days of the request. Women younger than eighteen don't need parental consent in case of urgent situation or after 90 days.\n\nSince 1980, the Laboratory of Epidemiology and Biostatistics at the High Institute of Health (Istituto Superiore di Sanità, ISS) in Rome has maintained a surveillance system for legal induced abortions. This system is based on quarterly reporting by the regional health authorities. A standardized form is compiled that contains aggregate data on major social-demographic characteristics of the woman (age, residency status, marital status, reproductive history) as well as details about the procedure (weeks of gestation, whether the procedure is elective or performed on an emergency basis, where certification was issued, type of procedure and location where it was performed, duration of stay, and immediate complications). This information is then sent to the ISS, which examines data quality and performs data analysis of trends, geographic distribution, and characteristics of women undergoing abortion. These analyses are performed annually by the ISS and the Ministry of Health (MH) and presented by the Minister of Health to the Parliament; results are also published in ISTISAN reports, an official publication of the ISS. Italy is considered to have one of the most accurate and timely abortion surveillance systems in the world.\n\nIn 1993, the abortion ratio in Italy was 9.8 per 1,000 live births, less than 1% (Table 2). However, this measure also varies regionally. The central and northern regions (in particular Emilia-Romagna, Liguria and Tuscany) are characterized by relatively low TFRs (one lifetime birth per woman), high abortion rates and elevated abortion ratios. While low levels of fertility can also be found in some of the northwestern regions, abortion rates are moderate in these regions (9-12 abortions per 1,000); therefore, abortion ratios in a few of these areas are closer to the national level.\n\nSubsequent to the legalization of abortion in Italy in 1978, abortion rates among Italian women first rose and then declined steadily, from a peak of 16.9 abortions per 1,000 women of reproductive age in 1983 to 9.8 per 1,000 in 1993. Abortion rates vary considerably by geographic region, with rates typically highest in the more secular regions and lowest in regions where traditional values predominate. Data from 1981 and 1991 indicate that age-specific abortion rates decreased during the 1980s for all age-groups, with the largest declines occurring in regions with the highest levels of abortion. Moreover, a shift in the age distribution of abortion rates occurred during the 1980s, with women aged 30–34 registering the highest abortion rate in 1991, whereas in 1981 the highest level of abortion occurred among those aged 25–29. The abortion rate among adolescent women was low at both times (7.6 per 1,000 in 1981 and 4.6 per 1,000 in 1991). These data are based only on reported legal abortions; the number of clandestine abortions remains unknown.\n\nA phenomenon to emerge in recent years has been an increase in the number of abortions requested by immigrant women. Among the 138,357 abortions performed in 1993, 13,826 (10%) involved foreign residents, an increase from 9,850 in 1996. This increase is most likely due to the rising number of immigrant women in Italy; the resident permits, for example, according to the data of the National Statistics Institute (ISTAT), have increased from 678,000 in 1995 to 1,100,000 in 1999. Based on estimates of the population of immigrant women 18–49 years of age, Istat has calculated that the AR for immigrant women was 28.7/1000 in 1998, approximately three times higher than that observed in Italian citizens. Indeed, the increase in the numbers of immigrant women may be the main cause of the leveling-off of the abortion rate in Italy. If the analysis of trends is limited to 1996-1998, years for which information is most complete on residency status, the number of abortions in Italian women declined from 127,700 in 1996 to 123,728 in 1998.\n\nIn 1993, approximately 140,000 induced abortions were performed in Italy. In comparison, the average annual number during the period 1982-1984 was more than 230,000. Similar patterns can also be seen in abortion rates. After legalization, abortion rates rose modestly, increasing from 13.7 abortions per 1,000 women aged 15–44 in 1979 to a peak of 16.9 per 1,000 in 1982 and 1983. During the period 1982-1984, Italian abortion rates stabilized, and this period was followed by a steady decline: By 1986, the rate had dropped to 14.0 abortions per 1,000 women, and by 1990 it had reached 11.1 per 1,000; by 1993, the abortion rate had decreased to 9.8 per 1,000.\n\n, the abortion rate was 10.0 abortions per 1000 women aged 15–44 years.\n\nBefore the approval of the law, in 1978, abortion was considered to be a crime against the integrity and the bloodline, as stated in the Criminal Code book 2 Title X.\n\nIn particular, the article 546 prohibited all different type of abortions, in case of it the punishment could have been from 2 to 5 years in prison. The only exception was so called, state of necessity which entails a current and imminent danger to the woman.\n\nThe turning point for the abortion debate was the decision number 27 of the Italian Constitutional Court on 18 February 1975 the hat stated that article 546 is unconstitutional. Indeed, the Court ruled that against article 546 was against article 31 of the Italian Constitution, which said that: \"It protects maternity, infancy and youth, promoting the institutions necessary thereto\". Moreover, article 546 is against article 32 of the Constitution, which specified that the Republic safeguards health as a fundamental right of the individual.\n\nThe Italian magazine \"Panorama\", in 1974, found out that a significant number of illegal abortions was performed every year, and it suggests that all women had either an abortion or knew a friend who had it.\n\nIn the early seventies with the presentation of two bills originating from the radical left which aimed to legalize therapeutic abortion. These bills did not reach the discussion state before the dissolution of parliament and the calling of new elections. In 1973 the fight to legalize abortion was begun with the Fortuna first bill. Fortuna’s law provided for the possibility of therapeutic abortions but is required the agreement of 3 doctors and precludes abortion unless the woman was seriously ill or mad. It also demanded the consent of parents for girls under 18. After the election in 1976, the pro-abortion majority was committed to legalization and nine different bills were presented from June 1976 till April 1978. Finally, the bill was passed and published on 22 May 1978.\n\nFrom the end of the 1960s, feminism played a leading role in reorganizing the terms of the debate about women and their condition. Abortion has united feminist groups which have fought to demand abortion right. The peak was reached between 1974 and 1976 with the mass mobilization. This coincides with the political struggle for abortion, but, by the time the abortion law was passed in 1978, the major moment of activity had passed.\n\nThe power and strength of the Vatican and the organized church is exerted in economic and political terms, but it is also exercised at a more local level through its strength in the provision of social services and neighborhood organization. The church statement on sexuality and the family represent the most significant proportion of its public statement to the faithful. It is a central doctrinal area and one through which the church is intent on reinforcing and extending its control. For the church, abortion involves the destruction of human life and can never be accepted regardless of the difficulties this position imposes. This meant that the church could not admit the possibility of legal abortions. The political party Christian Democracy, was the party which has governed Italy since 1948, together with the Italian Communist Party’s interpretation of the importance of Catholicism for any analysis of the balance of forces. The council of Italian bishops issued a statement confirming the church’s position on abortion and arguing against the legalization.\n\nThe law 194 on the adoption of social protection of motherhood and the voluntary termination of pregnancy.\n\nArt. 1 stated that the State guarantees the right to responsible and planned parenthood, recognizes the social value of motherhood, and shall protect human life from the beginning.\n\nMoreover, the voluntary termination of pregnancy as covered by this law shall not be a means of birth control.\n\nArt. 2 regards the function of family counseling center (\"consultori familiari\") and what it is their role in relation to the law. Family counselling centers shall assist any pregnant woman:\n\n\nThe law presents two different scenarios:\n\n1) Pregnancy during the first 90 days (Art. 4) \n\nIn order to practice the termination of pregnancy during the first 90 days, women whose situation is such that continuation of the pregnancy, childbirth, or motherhood would seriously compromise their physical or mental health, in view of their state of health, their economic, social, or family circumstances, the circumstances in which conception occurred, or the chance that the child would be born with abnormalities or malformations, shall apply to a public counselling center or to a fully authorized medical-social agency in the region, or to a physician of her choice.\n\nArt. 5 extend the explanation of family counselling centre when economic, social or family circumstances motivate the reasons to interrupt the pregnancy.\n\n2) Pregnancy after the first 90 days (Art.6) \n\nVoluntary termination of pregnancy may be performed after the first 90 days when the pregnancy or childbirth is a serious threat to the woman’s life or when the pathological processes constitute a serious threat to the woman's physical or mental health, such as those associated with serious abnormalities or malformations of the fetus, have been diagnosed.\n\nFurthermore, there is the need for guardian's approval if a girl that is under 18 years old or the woman that is interdicted in order to carry out abortion (Art. 12 and Art. 14). Articles 18 and 19 cover the consequences for any person inducing a termination without the consent of the woman.\n\nThe law gives the option for health professionals to claim the right to refuse to perform abortion. If the health personnel demands to be conscientious objector, they have to declare it in advance (Art.9). However, conscientious objection may not be invoked by health professionals if the personal intervention is essential in order to save the life of a woman in imminent danger.\n\nItaly keeps a record of the objecting doctors. According to data from the Ministry of Health, between 1997 and 2016 there was a 12.9% increase in the number of gynecologists who refuse to perform abortions on moral grounds, from 62.8% to 70.9%, the highest percentage ever recorded. As of 2016 the percentage is higher than the national average in Southern Italy (83.5%) and Sicily and Sardinia (77.7%), and lower in Central (70.1%) and Northern Italy (63.9%). The percentage is growing in all the macroregions except the North. As a result, voluntary abortion is performed only in 60% of the hospitals of the country. Also, non-objecting doctors suffers discrimination, and -in some provinces- needs to perform record-numbers of abortions, up to 15.8 per week in the province of Taranto (Apulia) or 12.2 in the province of Catania (Sicily). \n\nA resolution by the Council of Europe has found several violations of the European Social Charter in the situation:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5413166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5413166", "title": "Ainslie Meares", "text": "Ainslie Meares\n\nAinslie Dixon Meares (3 March 191019 September 1986) was an Australian psychiatrist, scholar of hypnotism, psychotherapist, authority on stress and a prolific author who lived and practised in Melbourne.\n\nAinslie Meares was born in Malvern, Victoria, on 3 March 1910, the eldest son of medical practitioner Albert George Meares, (1875-1928), and Eva Gertrude Meares (1875-1926) (née Ham), who were married on 14 July 1903. He married Bonnie Sylvia Byrne on 18 June 1934.\n\nMeares was educated at Melbourne Grammar School, where he boxed and played tennis, at Trinity College, and at the University of Melbourne, from which he graduated with a Bachelor of Agricultural Science degree in 1934, and a Bachelor of Medicine and Surgery degree in 1940.\n\nMeares received his Diploma in Psychological Medicine from the University of Melbourne in September 1947, and, on the basis of his presentation of a collection of 17 published papers relating to medical hypnotism (with each paper being independent of the others), he was awarded the higher degree of Doctor of Medicine by the University of Melbourne in 1958.\n\nMeares also served as a captain in the Royal Australian Army Medical Corps (1941–1945).\n\nMeares was a founding fellow of the Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists and, for a time, the president of the International Society for Clinical and Experimental Hypnosis.\n\nMeares was an internationally recognised expert in the medical uses of hypnotism and wrote a number of books describing his approach. His work may be divided into 3 periods: the hypnosis period, relief without drugs period and the stillness meditation period. These categories reflect the simplification and fine tuning of his method that occurred over time.\n\nMeares died suddenly, of pneumonia, in a Melbourne hospital on 19 September 1986. He was cremated. His wife, Bonnie, died on 27 December 1978. He was survived by their three children, Russell Meares (also a psychiatrist), Garda Meares Langley and Sylvia Meares Black.\n\nMeares was a prolific author, mainly on psychiatry, hypnotism, the treatment of cancer, and meditation. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "24399217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24399217", "title": "Alcohol consumption in Russia", "text": "Alcohol consumption in Russia\n\nAlcohol consumption in Russia remains among the highest in the world. According to a 2011 report by the World Health Organization, annual per capita consumption of alcohol in Russia was about 15.76 litres, the fourth-highest volume in Europe. Another dangerous trait of Russian alcohol consumption pattern was the high volume of spirits compared with other alcoholic drinks (such as beer or red wine).\n\nRussia currently implements a variety of anti-alcoholism measures (banning spirits and beer trade at night, raising taxes, and others). According to medical officials, these policies have resulted in a considerable fall of alcohol consumption volumes, to 13.5 litres by 2013, with wine and beer overtaking spirits as the main source of beverage alcohol. These levels are comparable with European Union averages. Alcohol producers claim that falling legal consumption is accompanied by growth in sales of illegally produced drink.\n\nHigh volumes of alcohol consumption have serious negative effects on Russia's social fabric and bring political, economic and public health ramifications. Alcoholism has been a problem throughout the country's history because drinking is a pervasive, socially acceptable behaviour in Russian society and alcohol has also been a major source of government revenue for centuries. It has repeatedly been targeted as a major national problem, with mixed results. Alcoholism in Russia has according to some authors acquired a character of a national disaster and has the scale of a humanitarian catastrophe.\n\nLegend holds that the tenth-century Russian prince Vladimir the Great rejected Islam as a state religion for the country because of its prohibition of alcohol. Historically, alcohol has been tolerated or even encouraged as a source of revenue.\n\nIn the 1540s, Ivan IV began setting up kabaks (\"кабак\") or taverns in his major cities to help fill his coffers; a third of Russian men were in debt to the kabaks by 1648. By 1860, vodka, the national drink, was the source of 40% of the government's revenue. At the beginning of World War I, prohibition was introduced in the Russian Empire, limiting the sale of hard liquor to restaurants.\n\nIn 1909 average alcohol consumption was said to be 11 bottles per capita per year. An estimated 4% of the population of St.Petersburg were estimated to be alcoholics in 1913.\n\nAfter the Bolshevik Party came to power, they made repeated attempts to reduce consumption in the Soviet Union. However, by 1925, vodka had reappeared in state-run stores. Joseph Stalin reestablished a state monopoly to generate revenue.\n\nSoviet leaders Nikita Khrushchev, Leonid Brezhnev, Yuri Andropov, and Konstantin Chernenko all tried to stem alcoholism. Mikhail Gorbachev increased controls on alcohol in 1985; he attempted to impose a partial prohibition, which involved a massive anti-alcohol campaign, severe penalties against public drunkenness and alcohol consumption, and restrictions on sales of liquor. The campaign was temporarily successful in reducing per capita alcohol consumption and improving quality-of-life measures such as life expectancies and crime rates, but it was deeply unpopular among the population and it ultimately failed.\n\nIn 2006, a new alcohol excise stamp known as the EGAIS system was introduced, allowing to identify every bottle sold in Russia through a centralized data system.\n\nIn 2010, Russian President Dmitry Medvedev nearly doubled the minimum price of a bottle of vodka in an effort to combat the problem.\n\nIn 2012, a national ban on sales of all types of alcoholic beverages from 11 p.m. to 8 a.m. was introduced to complement regional bans .\n\nThe Russian government has proposed reducing the state minimum price of vodka in reaction to the 2014–15 Russian financial crisis.\n\nIn December 2016, 49 people in Irkutsk died in a mass methanol poisoning. Medvedev reacted by calling for a ban on non-traditional alcoholic liquids like the bath lotion involved in this case, stating that \"it's an outrage, and we need to put an end to this\".\n\nIn recent years, alcohol related deaths in Russia have dropped dramatically year over year falling to 6,789 in 2017 from 28,386 in 2006 and continuing to decline into 2018. \n\nA study by Russian, British and French researchers published in \"The Lancet\" scrutinized deaths between 1990 and 2001 of residents of three Siberian industrial towns with typical mortality rates and determined that 52% of deaths of people between the ages of 15 and 54 were the result of alcohol abuse. Lead researcher Professor David Zaridze estimated that the increase in alcohol consumption since 1987 has caused an additional three million deaths nationwide.\n\nIn 2007, Gennadi Onishenko, the country's chief public health official, voiced his concern over the nearly threefold rise in alcohol consumption over the past 16 years; one in eight deaths was attributed to alcohol-related diseases, playing a major role in Russia's population decline. Men are particularly hit hard: according to a U.N. National Human Development Report, Russian males born in 2006 had a life expectancy of just over 60 years, or 17 years fewer than western Europeans, while Russian females could expect to live 13 years longer than their male counterparts.\n\nIn June 2009, the Public Chamber of Russia reported over 500,000 alcohol-related deaths annually, noting that Russians consume about of spirits a year, more than double the that World Health Organization experts consider dangerous.\n\nIn 1985, at the time of Gorbachev's campaign to reduce drinking, it was estimated that alcoholism resulted in $8 billion in lost production.\n\nIn the early 1980s, an estimated \"two-thirds of murders and violent crimes were committed by intoxicated persons; and drunk drivers were responsible for 14,000 traffic deaths and 60,000 serious traffic injuries\". In 1995, about three quarters of those arrested for homicide were under the influence of alcohol, and 29% of respondents reported that children beaten within families were the victims of drunks and alcoholics.\n\nA 1997 report published in the \"Journal of Family Violence\" found that among male perpetrators of spousal homicide, 60–75% of offenders had been drinking prior to the incident.\n\nIn 2008, suicide claimed 38,406 lives in Russia. With a rate of 27.1 suicides per 100,000 people, Russia has one of the highest suicide rates in the world, although it has been steadily decreasing since it peaked at around 40 per 100,000 in the mid-late 1990s, including a 30% drop from 2001 to 2006.\n\nHeavy alcohol use is a significant factor in the suicide rate, with an estimated half of all suicides a result of alcohol abuse. This is evident by the fact that Russia's suicide rate since the mid-90s has declined alongside per capita alcohol consumption, despite the economic crises since then; alcohol consumption is more of a factor than economic conditions.\n\nProphylactoriums, medical treatment centres, were established in 1925 to treat alcoholics and prostitutes. By 1929 there were five in Moscow. Chronic alcoholics evading treatment were detained for up to two years.\n\nFrom the 1930s and 1940s until the mid-1980s, the main treatment for alcoholism in Russia was conditioned response therapy. This treatment has since fallen out of favour, and the modern mainstream treatment has become pharmacotherapy, which involves detailed analyses of each patient, medicinal treatment, psychotherapy, sociotherapy, and other support. Although Alcoholics Anonymous exists in Russia, it lacks support from the government and so is generally dismissed by the Russian population.\n\nOne alternative therapy for alcoholism that has been used in Russia is the practice of \"coding\", in which therapists pretend to insert a \"code\" into patients' brains with the ostensible effect that drinking even small amounts of alcohol will be extremely harmful or even lethal. Despite not being recommended in Russian clinical guidelines, it has enjoyed considerable popularity. In recent years its use has lessened, due to the spread of information about its ineffectiveness.\n\n"}
{"id": "40754984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40754984", "title": "Antecedent (behavioral psychology)", "text": "Antecedent (behavioral psychology)\n\nAn antecedent is a stimulus that cues an organism to perform a learned behavior. When an organism perceives an antecedent stimulus, it behaves in a way that maximizes reinforcing consequences and minimizes punishing consequences. This might be part of complex, interpersonal communication.\n\nAntecedent stimuli (paired with reinforcing consequences) activate centers of the brain involved in motivation, while antecedent stimuli that have been paired with punishing consequences activate brain centers involved in fear.\n"}
{"id": "7991941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7991941", "title": "Aristides Agramonte", "text": "Aristides Agramonte\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37900494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37900494", "title": "Blood donation in Bangladesh", "text": "Blood donation in Bangladesh\n\nBlood donation in Bangladesh is an activity conducted by several different organisations. As of 2011, about 25% of the nation's blood supply came from voluntary donation, 20–25% from paid donors, and 50–55% from one-time donation for a specific patient.\n\nBlood transfusion service became available in Bangladesh at the Dhaka Medical College Hospital in 1950. Professional blood donors were the mainstay of blood donation in Bangladesh, with 47% of donated blood coming from professional donors as late as the year 2000. The potential for contamination in the supply, and the need for volunteer donors was well recognised. An estimate from 2011 is that of the 500,000 units of blood required annually, only 25% come from voluntary donation, 20–25% from paid donors, and 50–55% from one-time donation for a specific patient.\n\nThe first volunteer blood donation program in Bangladesh was begun in 1977 at Dhaka Medical College, and was organized by SANDHANI..\nSANDHANI has now 24 units in different medical and dental colleges.\nSANDHANI is a voluntary institution run by the medical and dental students of BANGLADESH. It is mainly working on motivation on voluntary blood donation and posthumous eye donation in Bangladesh.\nSANDHANI is also working for the helpless patient in the community by serving them with drug from the drug bank, donating blood to the thalassaemia patient, giving relief to the flooded and disaster affected people etc.\n\nMedicine Club is also a Non-profit Humanitarian Organization in Bangladesh volunteered by Medical & Dental students. The organization was founded on January 31, 1981 at Mymensingh Medical College with the intention of helping the helpless and serving humanity. Now it has 21 Units in different Medical & dental colleges. It has since broadened its scope to include voluntary blood donating, prevent Thalassaemia throughout Bangladesh & rise awareness about this. It contributes a large amount of donated blood throughout Bangladesh. It also helps poor patients by donating money and drugs. This organization also distributes vaccines & warm cloths and arranges \"Health Check Up Campaigns\".\n\nThe International Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement began a blood program in Bangladesh in 1981. Today they operate several centres, using both whole blood and fractionated blood components.\n\nA 1997 survey of students at the University of Dhaka had found a generally favourable attitude towards voluntary blood donation, and an overwhelmingly unfavourable attitude to paid blood donation, and recommended that a campaign should be started immediately to increase awareness and participation in voluntary blood donation among the student population.\n\nBadhan is a non-political voluntary blood donors' organisation in Bangladesh that was established in 1997. Badhan's first activity was a free blood-group testing program that took place on 24 October 1997 at Shahidullah Hall of the University of Dhaka. Shahidullah Hall is very close to Dhaka Medical College and Hospital, and before that time people needing blood for patients would gather regularly in or near the hall gate, seeking help. Mohammad Shahidul Islam Ripon was the principal originator of the program, along with other students.\n\nThe blood provided is fresh rather than stored, using a database of people whose blood type has been previously established. The graduate- and postgraduate-level students of Bangladeshi universities and postgraduate colleges are the main participants of the organisation. The organisation is active in 14 universities and 29 university colleges.\n\nOther activities include raising awareness about donating fresh blood, donating blood voluntarily for patients and helping poor people in time of natural disasters.\n\nFinancing comes primarily from individual members and ex-members, as well as from the universities and colleges administration, from donations. The California non-profit organisation SpaandanB has been a significant contributor from outside Bangladesh.\nBadhan wants to make blood donation as a social movement. It's ultimate goals are (a) none should die from lack of blood, (b) every person knows his/her blood group. Head office of Badhan is located at ground floor of TSC, Dhaka University.\n\nThe Bangladesh Blood Services is organized volunteer blood donation program in Bangladesh was begun in 2017. Bangladesh Blood Services operates Bangladesh’s blood supply in a manner that gains the trust, commitment and confidence of all Bangladeshi by providing a safe, secure, cost-effective, affordable and accessible supply of quality blood, blood products and their alternatives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47304512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47304512", "title": "Center for Medical Progress", "text": "Center for Medical Progress\n\nThe Center for Medical Progress (CMP) is an anti-abortion organization founded by David Daleiden in 2013. The CMP is best known for producing undercover recordings that prompted a controversy over Planned Parenthood in 2015; CMP established a fake company to pose as buyers of fetal tissue and secretly recording Planned Parenthood officials during meetings.\n\nThe CMP released edited videos of the discussions which made it appear as if Planned Parenthood intended to profit from fetal tissue, although the full unedited videos instead showed that Planned Parenthood requested only a fee to cover costs without any profit. A grand jury in Harris County, Texas took no action against Planned Parenthood, but instead indicted Daleiden and a second CMP employee on felony charges of tampering with governmental records and attempting to purchase human organs. The charges were dropped six months later, but in March 2017 Daleiden and the second CMP employee were charged with 15 felonies in California—one for each of the people whom they had filmed without consent, and one for criminal conspiracy to invade privacy.\n\nThe videos led conservative politicians to request a criminal investigation of Planned Parenthood for selling fetal tissue, and in December 2017 the US Department of Justice revealed that it was investigating Planned Parenthood.\n\nDavid Daleiden formed the Center for Medical Progress in 2013 after working for Live Action for five years. He was that organization’s director of research \"during the early stages\" of the project to make secret recordings of Planned Parenthood clinics. The CMP's board members include Daleiden, Troy Newman, and Albin Rhomberg, and they receive advice, consulting and funds from Operation Rescue. Their website initially described the organization as \"dedicated to informing and educating both the lay public and the scientific community about the latest advances in regenerative medicine, cell-based therapies, and related disciplines.\" It was initially registered by Daleiden as a tax-exempt biomedicine charity, but after questions about the group's tax exempt status the organization's stated mission was changed to \"a group of citizen journalists dedicated to monitoring and reporting on medical ethics and advances.\"\n\nDaleiden's organization set up a fake biomedical research company, called Biomax Procurement Services. Under this guise, they posed as potential buyers of aborted fetal tissue and organs, and secretly recorded Planned Parenthood officials during meetings. CMP released edited versions of these videos, which it promoted as showing Planned Parenthood officials \"price haggling over ‘baby parts'\". When the full, unedited, videos became available, they instead showed \"a Planned Parenthood executive repeatedly saying its clinics want to cover their costs, not make money, when donating fetal tissue from abortions for scientific research.\" According to the lawyer for Planned Parenthood, Roger K. Evans, Biomax proposed “sham procurement contracts,” offering 1,600 for liver and thymus fetal tissues.\n\nThe videos and allegations attracted widespread media coverage, and re-invigorated the long-term American political abortion debate. Five separate congressional investigations of Planned Parenthood were launched as a result of the videos. A bill to defund Planned Parenthood was proposed, but failed to pass in the Senate on August 3, 2015. Several states cut contracts and funding for Planned Parenthood following the videos, regardless of whether Planned Parenthood provided abortion services in those states. An editorial in \"The New England Journal of Medicine\" was highly critical of the Center for Medical Progress, describing the videos as part of a \"campaign of misinformation\" by an organization that \"twist(s) the facts.\"\n\nTeleSUR television network listed The Center for Medical Progress as one of \"The 7 Biggest Bigots of 2015\" for \"attacking women's rights in the United States.\"\n\nMedia Matters for America named The Center for Medical Progress their \"Misinformer Of The Year\" for 2015.\n\nIn the aftermath of the videos being released, the National Abortion Federation sued the Center for Medical Progress. In September 2015, two courts ruled that Daleiden and the Center for Medical Progress must turn over private documents and submit to depositions about how they orchestrated their video sting, and could require Daleiden to turn over paperwork and details of the operation, and provide the full raw footage he collected while posing as an executive of the fictitious tissue procurement firm Biomax. On December 4, 2015, U.S. Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy denied an emergency appeal from the Center for Medical Progress to block the lower courts' order that would require CMP to release the names of its donors.\n\nOn January 15, 2016, Planned Parenthood commenced a lawsuit in federal district court in San Francisco against the CMP, alleging that the group and its members, in setting up a fake tissue procurement company and using fake identities to set up private meetings engaged in wire and mail fraud in violation of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO Act), unlawfully invaded privacy, and engaged in illegal secret recording, and trespassing.\n\nOn January 25, 2016, the findings of a Harris County, Texas, grand jury investigating the affair were made public. The grand jury cleared Planned Parenthood of any wrongdoing, and indicted two CMP employees. David Daleiden was indicted on one felony charge of tampering with a governmental record by making a fake driver's license and one misdemeanor count related to purchasing human organs; another center employee, Sandra Merritt, was indicted on one charge of tampering with a governmental record. The Texas charges against Daleiden and Merritt, however, were eventually dropped due to questions surrounding the authority of the grand jury to indict Daleiden and Merritt, due to the extension of the grand jury's term, with District Attorney Devon Anderson stating \"The grand jury took the investigation where the facts led it; however, Texas law limits what can be investigated after a grand jury extension order is issued. In light of this and after careful research and review, this office dismissed the indictments.\"\n\nOn June 13, 2016, a Texas judge dismissed the misdemeanor charge of purchase and sale of human organs due to a technicality in the Harris County prosecutor's indictment. The next day, the Harris County District Attorney's Office said it would not fight the decision. The prosecution failed to provide proof that any fees offered or paid for aborted fetal parts were not covered by exceptions like physician or transport fees. The hearing for the felony charge was July 26, 2016.\n\nOn March 28, 2017, Daleiden and Merritt were charged with 15 felonies in the State of California - one for each of the people whom they had filmed without consent, and one for criminal conspiracy to invade privacy. None of the felony charges include fraud. Daleiden's attorney, Steve Cooley, has sought the dismissal of all charges, based on the fact that the accusers are not named in the indictment, which would prevent Daleiden and Merritt from confronting their accusers, in violation of their Sixth Amendment rights.\n\nOn 21 June 2017, fourteen of the charges were dismissed, with leave to amend, on the grounds that they were legally insufficient. \"Leave to amend\" means that the prosecutors were allowed the option to re-file the charges with more details; the prosecutors did so some time during the week of July 3, and all fifteen felony charges against Daleiden and Merritt are active again.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35197211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35197211", "title": "Community integration", "text": "Community integration\n\nCommunity integration, while diversely defined, is a term encompassing the full participation of all people in community life. It has specifically referred to the integration of people with disabilities into US society from the local to the national level and for decades was a defining agenda in countries such as Great Britain.\n\nIn the US, the Consortium of Citizens for Disabilities advocates for a national public policy which \"ensures the self-determination, independence, empowerment, integration and inclusion of children and adults with disabilities in all parts of society\". Other countries (such as Canada) with different roots often spoke of inclusion: the unifying, global agenda in \"disability and community life\".\n\nTheorists have differentiated types and levels of integration in special education as physical, functional, social, community and organizational. In disability circles, community integration meant opportunities for participation in schools, careers, homes, relationships, leisure, and a variety of interests and lifestyles. Bengt Nirje and the late Wolf Wolfensberger of the US are internationally known for their concept of normalization and social role valorization, with a particular emphasis on physical and social integration. Anders Gustavsson (ca. 1990) of Sweden has indicated that physical integration best describes the common use of the term \"integration\", with social integration the struggle for \"equality and quality in life.\"\n\nThe intent of community integration was the participation of people with disabilities in regular environments, the antithesis of exclusionary practices (such as the minority-group model). As the field moved toward community support, theories related to community living began to require applicability beyond a minority-group model with a new emphasis on self-determination. As described by Racino, these theories include ecological theory, community-support theories, systems theory, feminist theories, family theories, sociocultural theories, critical theories in education, psychosocial theories, the generic human-concept theory and universal theories.\n\nTaylor, in his analysis of community systems in the US, proposed the principle of non-restrictive environment as a counterpoint to the federal government's least-restrictive-environment principle. In 2014, the governing principle in the US is that of the most integrated setting based upon the Supreme Court Olmstead Decision.\n\nPrior to the Olmstead decision, the Supreme Court addressed the community integration issues multiple times in the case, Halderman v. Pennhurst State School and Hospital, a class action filed in Pennsylvania by attorney David Ferleger. Although the Olmstead decision explicitly did not reach the constitutional issues decided in the Pennhurst and other cases, limitations in Olmstead have been critiqued and it has been argued that there is a constitutional right to community services.\n\nThe analysis of large-scale systems change in community integration has involved challenges by local public agencies, key elements of these strategies (e.g., enabling leadership, putting people first, values and vision, learning for quality) and its implications for national policy. Disability-agency, state-level disability-system, community and societal change are essential (but insufficient) elements of the process and outcomes of community integration.\n\nCommunity integration also has strong community roots which places it in community practice fields from community psychology, to sociologists studying community, to inclusive education in local school systems, competitive businesses (with rehabilitation), rural independent living, urban sociology, local parks and recreation programs, community development and housing, neighbourhoods and communities, among others. \n\nEducational integration has a long history of debate described as \"more comprehensive than academic mainstreaming.\" Community integration in this context (schools) refers to opportunities \"to learn practical social and community living skills (and job training) in a wide variety of community settings\" (p. 13). Based in part on the civil-rights movement as represented by Brown v. Board of Education, school integration was based on the right to a free, appropriate education in regular schools and classrooms. \n\nEducational integration (now often equated with inclusion) remains controversial in the US (although it is supported by law) due, in part, to special-education systems. School integration also involves children with more significant disabilities, such as those with technology-assisted needs. Progress has been made in education at the post-secondary level (in almost all population groups) due, in part, to disability-services departments at colleges. Today, instead of educational integration, the goal is for continued school reform through inclusion (education) and for education with accommodations as required by the law.\n\nIn the US disability field a major shift has occurred from group and facility-based models to homes with support services, emphasizing a change from \"home-like\" housing to community homes, neighborhoods and relationships. The most-recent initiatives were in homeownership, an important form of community integration which also involves a feeling of ownership. Housing integration builds on a long history of support for good quality, affordable housing which often include analyses of social exclusion which may concentrate on US protected classes.\n\nHousing integration is of great importance, in part, because of the history of residential segregation (usually by race and class) in the US. Residential segregation due to inequality and disparity continues to be studied in ethnic, social and economic frameworks, including the process of desegregation, gentrification and hypersegregation. In addition, redlining, as a bridge issue across lower and middle classes, affects housing and neighborhood integration from as early as the 1970s with germandering districts for community development funds more common in the 2000s. A discussion of residential segregation in US and Europe and a \"critique of the ideal of integration\" can be found in \"Inclusion and Democracy\".\n\nIn the US, mixed-income and scattered-site housing was reported in a case study of a housing association supporting people with disabilities in Madison, Wisconsin (the Madison Mutual Housing Association and Cooperative). In Canada, the Prairie Housing Cooperative (as reported by David Wetherow) integrates persons with disabilities into the community via housing. An early review on nonprofit housing in the US and Canada, with increasing governmental funds in the US today, indicates that mixed-income housing was used primarily in \"troubled neighborhoods\" with efforts to seek higher-income tenants to move into those neighborhoods as opposed to raising the entire group's living standards. In 2013, the emphasis is on inclusive and sustainable housing, while other groups support equitable and sustainable housing in the US (Policy Link). The status of housing and disability in America was reported by the National Council on Disability in the US, and compared to Harvard University's report on the nation's housing.\n\nBeing in the community has meant being part of activities and events on the local level in towns, cities and suburbs. Recreational integration is a facet of inclusion and community access. School and recreation integration was promoted in the US and in countries such as Canada and Australia. On the local level concerns have generally concerned acceptance and friendships, support services, site accessibility, group size and \"truly integrated\" (in contrast to \"side-by-side\") activities. For example, in Great Britain community opportunities were sought so people could belong, contribute and make friends. In addition, recreational funding has often been tied to facilities; community integration involves changes in staffing of regular community environments such as the YMCA. By 2013, at least one academic recreation and tourism department had an inclusion, adaptive educator as its Departmental Chair supporting integration and inclusion.\n\nRecreational inclusion may entail a camp, a neighborhood center, a girls' softball league, school sports or technology clubs, a community choir or a public-speaking course as participation in a social world and integration. Car-related examples include an amusement-park car track; car shows, bike nights and car cruise-ins, and model car racing.\n\nEmployment integration was advocated during the 1970s for women, people with disabilities and racial groups, who were seen as discriminated against in employment (Racino for the Urban League of Onondaga County, Inc., 1978); for example, occupations and professions were constructed based upon gender: women's professions (nurses, teachers, secretaries) and men's professions (scientists, managers, administrators, police, firemen and construction). Progress has been made at the leadership level with the first African American president (Barack Obama), disability leadership in the United States Department of Education (Judith Heumann) and the rise of prominent women in the state department State Department (Madeleine Albright and Hillary Clinton).\n\nFor those with severe disabilities employment-integration initiatives were often framed as supported employment, which allowed jobs at regular businesses and employment sites. Similar initiatives in the mental health field were often called transitional employment, and other forms of integration included competitive placements in businesses and industry, targeted positions, and even affirmative businesses in the hearts of business districts. A major success was the passage of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, amended in 2008 (following the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, amended in 1978), which provided protection for men and women with disabilities in obtaining jobs, careers and positions with necessary workplace accommodations. A key service for employment integration is often considered to be personal assistance services, or in other fields a job coach prior to more \"natural\" models of supervision and support.\n\nIn this context employment integration has been conceptualized, including social aspects of promotion, discriminatory hiring and termination practices, performance standards, job-sharing and modification, educational attainment, internships and volunteer experiences, workplace relationships, team-building, supervisory roles, workers' compensation, accommodations and supports (Urban League of Onondaga County, 1978). Competitive employment integration at the US workplace is expected by law, and categorical services have tended to be developed as segregated bases (e.g., sheltered facilities to supported employment). Employment integration is a worldwide issue, modified by approaches to multicultural groups (e.g. the growing Latino population in the US), the changing economy (e.g. from manufacturing to service) and increasing unemployment.\n\nCommunity integration has been most criticized for its inattention to gender, ethnic, cultural, racial, class and economic factors (\"double discrimination\", pp. 60–61). At the university level multiculturalism, including disability, was proposed as the solution to these complex issues. Community integration, in practice, involves diverse approaches and models (age, team, agency, area and gender integration or segregation) and has been integral to de-institutionalization and community development for over two decades. Community integration is a policy, concept and practice to address systemic stigma and discrimination related to disability. It competes with other policy models (such as multiculturalism), and changes its practices over time.\n\nIn the sub-field of brain injury, community integration included areas ranging from supported employment to daily living skills, family interventions (versus support) and memory training, school reintegration and transition to post secondary education. Community integration was being diversely defined by researchers, including those in fields such as brain injury, sensory impairments (e.g., hearing, visual), developmental and physical disabilities. News and professional-journal articles will often read, \"integration into the community\" (from institutions and facilities), integrated care (health services integration), or \"community reintegration\" (after hospital care) worldwide.\n\nIn the field of mental health Paul Carling promoted community integration in the 1980s and 1990s in opposition to the predominant medical model,while psychiatric rehabilitation also linked to the medical, often allied health, professions. Carling's approach to community integration in mental health was congruent with intellectual disabilities, particularly in areas of community living (e.g., supportive living in intellectual disabilities, supported housing in mental health, and housing and support). In 2008, \"Disability and Society\", a popular disability policy journal discussed community reintegration for people with psychiatric disabilities and their relationship to centers for independent living. \n\nComprehensive medical systems were proposed to support the family in community integration, including new roles for specialized personnel from neuropsychologists to physiatrists.In the field of traumatic brain injury, community integration was framed by both the social and medical models of disability in an effort to transition people from hospitals and rehabilitation centers.Today, the Brain Injury Association of America recommends the educational needs of children with traumatic brain injuries and the health care required.\n\nIn 1985, the US government funded a national community-integration project identifying best community practices for people with the \"most severe disabilities\". Technical assistance was funded through the Rehabilitation Research and Training Center on Community Integration (of the National Institute on Disability Rehabilitation Research and Training Center, US Department of Education) to all states. The Rehabilitation Research and Training Center on Community Integration (Syracuse University, headed by Steve Taylor) also had subcontracts with the University of Illinois (David Braddock), the University of Minnesota Institute on Community Integration (K. Charlie Lakin) The federal departments subsequently offered contracts to evaluate the status of these new community services in the US. and others.\n\nThe principles of community integration through the national flagship centers (the Rehabilitation Research and Training Centers on Family and Community Living, facilitated by Lakin and J.A. Racino of Syracuse University) were:\n\nThe 1988 Leadership Institute on Community Integration (From Being in the Community to Being Part of the Community, Steve J. Taylor, director; Julie Ann Racino, deputy director and B. Shoultz, information coordinator), held in Washington, D.C., was sponsored by the Research and Training Center on Community Integration in cooperation with the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research, the Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, US Department of Education, Beach Center on Families and Disability (University of Kansas), California Research Institute (University of Connecticut), Rehabilitation Research and Training Center (Virginia Commonwealth University), Research and Training Center Consortium on Aging and Developmental Disabilities (an eight-university consortium coordinated by the University of Cincinnati), Research and Training Center on Community Living (University of Minnesota) and the University-Affiliated Program in Developmental Disabilities (University of Illinois at Chicago). Work groups were facilitated in community living, families, school and employment with papers prepared, respectively, by K. Charlie Lakin, Ann P. Turnbull and H. Rud Turnbull, Douglas Biklen and Paul Wehman.\n\nBy the late 2000s, the Centers were renamed to Community Participation, one aspect of community integration, or to Employment, or other priority areas, such as Health, with many of the above centers still federally funded through the NIDRR program (National Institute on Rehabilitation Research and Rehabilitation), US Department of Education and new academic centers at universities such as Temple University in Pennsylvania.\n\nIn particular, community integration in intellectual, \"severe\" disabilities and developmental disabilities means families for all children. For adults, it means \"ordinary\" or \"regular\" homes with support services. In addition, community integration means recreation, employment, transportation and education with the personal assistance and support(s) necessary to participate fully in the community.\n\nHowever, community support (e.g., consumer-directed services) as part of community-agency change and deinstitutionalization, self-determination, community participation, individual planning, social relationships and personal-assistance services became the leading directions in US community integration. Community integration has also been described as comparative to normalisation, a widely known value-based system of human services (See, Wolfensberger, Nirje & Bank-Mikkelsen). \n\nCommunity integration has been tied to quality assurance in the community and an improved quality of life. It has involved evaluations and studies over at least two decades in areas ranging from service costs to personnel studies, service typologies, best practices and innovations, community and integration studies. Internationally, quality of life has been explored in Finland, Australia, the US, Germany, Hungary, Denmark and Canada.\n\nResearchers in the US (Julie Ann Racino, Syracuse University) and Great Britain (David Towell, King's Fund College) collaborated on community integration, including a 1990 series of international seminars on community integration in the US held at the University of Manchester (Hester Adrian Research Center), Manchester Polytechnic and Manchester Health Authority, the King's Fund College (with Lyn Rucker), Campaign for the Mentally Handicapped (London), University of Wales at Bangor (Center for Social Policy Research), and the University of Wales (Mental Handicap Research Unit). Internationally, research began on the \"first integrated generation\" in countries such as Sweden and integration was confirmed as a legal principle in the US.\n\nCommunity services, supports, integration and inclusion are changing in countries such as Czechoslovakia (now the Czech Republic and Slovakia), Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Israel, Austria, Great Britain, Iceland and Sweden. Since the 1990s the European Union has formed, populations in the Middle East have been emancipated, community self-advocacy has developed in South America and Africa and financial ownership of US debt has been undertaken (in part) by China. The United Nations offers guidance and leadership through its Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (particularly Article 19, which addresses independent living and community inclusion). New book based on these principles is \"Public Administration and Disability: Community Services Administration in the US\" (Racino, in press, 2014). which links to the diverse nation-states and rationales for continuing educational, employment and housing segregation Segregation in Northern Ireland.\n"}
{"id": "37191218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37191218", "title": "Emergency Hospital Service", "text": "Emergency Hospital Service\n\nDuring World War II, a centralised state-run Emergency Hospital Service was established in the United Kingdom. It employed doctors and nurses to care for those injured by enemy action and arrange for their treatment across the range of local and charity hospitals that existed at that time. It was also known as the Emergency Medical Service, although this was strictly speaking the medical staff of the service.\n\nAccording to David Stark Murray \"Until war became imminent it was only with the greatest difficulty that anyone could be persuaded to regard the chaotic and anachronistic structure of medical practice and hospital services as of any real importance to the nation.\" In 1938 London County Council seconded staff to the Ministry of Health to assist planning of medical and ambulance services. The London Voluntary Hospitals Committee negotiated with the Ministry. One of the first tasks was to survey the assortment of mental asylums, public assistance institutions and other hospitals which had been put at the disposal of the service. A Cabinet paper in March 1939 showed that there were only about 80,000 beds in England and Wales which could be used for the prolonged treatment of casualties. After the surveys in 1937 and 1938 the government had provided nearly 1,000 new operating theatres, 48,000,000 bandages and dressings and 250,000 bedsteads in \"hutted annexes\".\n\nInitially John Harry Hebb was appointed Director General. The position was later occupied by Sir Francis Richard Fraser.\n\nThe Ministry of Health formulated, and at the outbreak of war put into operation, the Emergency Hospitals Scheme. 2,378 hospitals were included in the scheme at the outbreak of war. They planned for very much larger numbers of air-raid casualties than actually materialised. Up to 67,000 nurses were thought to be needed to care for the expected air-raid casualties. 35,000 beds were requisitioned from mental health and mental deficiency hospitals, some of which were provided with X-ray apparatus, laboratories and operating theatres. There were also newly built hutted hospitals which, by the end of 1941, were expected to provide forty-five thousand beds. Many hospitals were removed from cities into the country, so the scheme included provision of an ambulance service for moving patients from one place to another. Hospital blocks of 300 or more beds were allotted for military purposes.\n\nA network of Emergency Medical Service Control Centres was established, but the service did not include general practitioners or all specialists. Air Raid Precautions casualty services remained under separate control. The Emergency Hospital Service co-ordinated all the hospitals under the Ministry of Health; the hospitals themselves were still administered as in peace time but the Ministry dictated the type of work they did, and the cost of performing it was paid in full to the voluntary hospitals and at 60% to the municipal hospitals. There was a system of area management, co-ordinated by group officers who controlled personnel and equipment which were pooled and allocated to different hospitals as required. London, where there were 68,000 EHS beds, was divided into nine triangular sectors, each with a large teaching hospital at its apex stretching out to base hospitals up to fifty miles away. Doctors, initially employed full-time were later paid a retainer fee of £500 a year to carry out part-time duties during the whole of the war and additional duties as needed. Similar arrangements were made for dentists, pharmacists and opticians.\n\nBy 1942 the hospital service had expanded to include:\n\nA 62-page booklet was issued showing who was eligible.\n\nA number of special treatment centres, were established in particular dealing with plastic surgery and war neurosis, together with staff and laboratory facilities for a national blood transfusion service. Laboratories were established both for routine pathology and public health laboratories to diagnose epidemic disease, and to distribute serological products. The neurosis centres were set up first because of fears that public morale might crack under the strain of air bombardment.\n\nIt was estimated in 1943 that 3,000 beds had been lost in the general hospitals within the London County Council area due to bombing, and more were lost in the flying bomb and rocket attacks of 1944.\n\n"}
{"id": "1573805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1573805", "title": "Eugenio Espejo", "text": "Eugenio Espejo\n\nFrancisco Javier Eugenio de Santa Cruz y Espejo (Royal Audiencia of Quito, 1747–95) was a medical pioneer, writer and lawyer of mestizo origin in colonial Ecuador. Although he was a notable scientist and writer, he stands out as a polemicist who inspired the separatist movement in Quito. He is regarded as one of the most important figures in colonial Ecuador. He was Quito's first journalist and hygienist. \n\nAs a journalist he spread enlightened ideas in the Royal Audiencia, and as a hygienist he composed an important treatise about sanitary conditions in colonial Ecuador that included interesting remarks about microorganisms and the spreading of disease.\n\nEspejo was noted in his time for being a satirist. His satirical works, inspired by the philosophy of the Age of Enlightenment, were critical of the lack of education of the Audiencia of Quito, the way the economy was being handled in the Audiencia, the corruption of its authorities, and aspects of its culture in general. Because of these works he was persecuted and finally imprisoned shortly before his death.\n\nThe Royal Audiencia of Quito (or Presidency of Quito) was established as part of the Spanish State by Philip II of Spain on August 29, 1563. It was a court of the Spanish Crown with jurisdiction over certain territories of the Viceroyalty of Peru (and later the Viceroyalty of New Granada) that now constitute Ecuador and parts of Peru, Colombia and Brazil. The Royal Audiencia was created to strengthen administrative control over those territories and to rule the relations between whites and the natives. Its capital was the city of Quito.\n\nBy the 18th century, the Royal Audiencia of Quito began to have economic problems; a lack of roads led to limited communications. \"Obrajes\"—a type of textile factory—had provided jobs, but now found themselves in decline, mainly due to a crackdown on smuggled European cloths and a series of natural disasters. \"Obrajes\" were replaced by \"haciendas\", and the dominant groups continued to exploit the indigenous population.\n\nIn the Royal Audiencia, the education situation worsened after of the expulsion of the Jesuit priests; too few learned people lived in Quito to be able to fill the void. The majority of the population neither read nor wrote well. On the other hand, the few who could enter the university were given an education which was heavily theoretical and used memorization as the primary learning technique. Scholasticism, which was in decline in these times, was still taught; and the students spent their time in metaphysical discussions. As a result, the intellectual people in Quito—most of whom were clerical—had affected manners when expressing themselves, while having no new ideas. Furthermore, in 1793 only two medical doctors were available in Quito, of which one was Espejo; the majority of people who fell ill were helped by curanderos. In Quito at the time, ethnic prejudice was common, and therefore most people considered society to be divided into estates of the realm, which differed by racial origin. Because of this, a person's dignity and honor could be damaged by racial prejudices.\n\nA slackening of social customs occurred on all social levels; extramarital relationships and illegitimate children were common. Because poverty was on the rise—especially in the lower classes—many women were forced to find lodgings quickly, for example in convents, o. This explained the abundance of the clergy in a small city like Quito; often men were ordained not because of a vocation but because it solved their economic problems and improved their community standing.\n\nHe was baptized Francisco Javier Eugenio de Santa Cruz y Espejo in the \"El Sagrario\" parish on February 21, 1747. According to most historians, his father was Luis de la Cruz Chuzhig, a Quichua Indian from Cajamarca, who arrived in Quito as an assistant to the priest and physician José del Rosario, and his mother was Maria Catalina Aldás, a mulatta native to Quito. However, some historians, especially Carlos Freile Granizo, argue that contemporary documents imply that Espejo's mother was white; for instance, his parents' marriage was recorded in the book for white marriages (as they were deemed as criollos), and the birth certificates of Espejo and his siblings were entered in the same book.\n\nEspejo had two younger siblings, Juan Pablo and María Manuela. Juan Pablo was born in 1752; he studied with the Dominicans and served as a priest in various parts of the Audiencia of Quito. María Manuela was born in 1753, and after the death of her parents she came to be cared for by her brother Eugenio. Despite his family's somewhat unstable economic situation, Espejo had a good education. He instructed himself in medicine by working alongside his father at the \"Hospital de la Misericordia\". According to Espejo, he learned \"by experience, which cannot be known without studying with pen in hand.\"\n\nOvercoming racial discrimination, he graduated from medical school on July 10, 1767, and shortly afterwards graduated in jurisprudence and canon law (having studied law under Dr. Ramón Yépez from 1780 to 1793). On August 14, 1772, he asked for permission to practice medicine in Quito, and it was granted on November 28, 1772. After that, no information exists about Espejo's whereabouts until 1778, when he wrote a somewhat polemical sermon.\n\nBetween 1772 and 1779, Espejo provoked the colonial authorities, who regarded him as responsible for several satirical and mocking posters. These posters were attached to the doors of churches and other buildings, and their anonymous author tended to attack the colonial authorities, the clergy or any other subject he deemed convenient. Although no surviving posters have been found, evidence from comments Espejo made in his writings suggests that he wrote them.\n\nIn 1779, a reproachful and satirical manuscript was circulated, the \"El nuevo Luciano de Quito\" (The New Lucian of Quito), signed by \"don Javier de Cía, Apéstegui y Perochena,\" a pseudonym for Espejo. This work imitated the satire of Lucian, and was especially unsympathetic to the Jesuits. It showed the culture of its author, who lived in the isolated and intellectually backward city of Quito. \"El Nuevo Luciano de Quito\" was written in dialogues, in order to present his ideas to the common people in an easy way, instead of using tedious explanations meant for scholars. It satirized the many defects of the society of Quito, especially the corruption of the colonial authorities and the people's lack of education. The use of a pseudonym, a common practice in Europe and the Americas during the Age of Enlightenment, was important to Espejo. Not only did it provide anonymity, it attempted to remove any hint of his crossbreeding in a culture which granted any white person importance and prestige. His pseudonym implied that he had white or European relatives in his mother's lineage.\n\nBeginning in 1779, Espejo continued writing satires against the government of the Audiencia, stirred by the condition of society. In June 1780, Espejo wrote \"Marco Porcio Catón\" (Marcus Porcius Cato), Once again, Espejo used a pseudonym, \"Moisés Blancardo.\" In this work, a parodied censor's response to the \"Nuevo Luciano\", he scorned the notions and ideas of its critics. In 1781 he wrote \"La ciencia blancardina\", which he referred to as the second part of \"Nuevo Luciano\", as an answer to the criticism of a Mercedarian priest from Quito. Because of his works, by 1783 he was labeled as \"restive and subversive.\" To get rid of him, the authorities named him head physician for the scientific expedition of Francisco de Requena to the Pará and Marañon rivers to set the limits of the Audiencia. Espejo tried to decline the appointment, and after that failed, he tried unsuccessfully to flee. His arrest order details one of the few remaining physical descriptions of him. Captured, he was sent back as a \"criminal of serious offense,\" but he was not prosecuted and suffered no significant consequences.\n\nIn 1785, he was asked by the \"cabildo\" (town council) to write about smallpox, the worst medical problem the Audiencia faced. Espejo used the opportunity to write his most complete and best-written work, \"Reflexiones acerca de un método para preservar a los pueblos de las viruelas\" (Reflections about a method to preserve the people from smallpox), denouncing the way the Audiencia handled sanitation. This work is a valuable historical source as a description of the hygienic and sanitary conditions of colonial America.\n\n\"Reflexiones\" was sent to Madrid, where it was added as an appendix to the second edition of the medical treatise \"Disertación médica\" (1786) by Francisco Gil, a member of the \"Real Academia Médica de España\". Instead of recognition, Espejo acquired enemies because his work criticized the physicians and priests in charge of public health in the Royal Audiencia for their negligence, and he was forced to leave Quito.\n\nOn his way to Lima, he stopped in Riobamba, where a group of priests asked him to write a reply to a report written by Ignacio Barreto, chief tax collector. The report accused the priests of Riobamba of various abuses against the Indians in order to take their money. Espejo gladly accepted the task because he wanted to settle accounts with Barreto and other citizens of Riobamba, among them José Miguel Vallejo, who had turned him in to the authorities when he tried to flee Requena's expedition to the Marañón river. He wrote \"Defensa de los curas de Riobamba\" (Defense of the clergy of Riobamba), a detailed study of the way of life of the Indians from Riobamba and a powerful attack on Barreto's report.\n\nIn March 1787, he continued his attack against his enemies from Riobamba with a series of eight satirical letters which he called \"Cartas riobambenses\". In response, his enemies denounced Espejo before the President of the Royal Audiencia, Juan José De Villalengua. On August 24, 1787, Villalengua requested that Espejo either to go to Lima or return to Quito to occupy a post in the government, and subsequently arrested him. Espejo was accused of writing \"El Retrato de Golilla\", a satire against King Charles III and the Marquis de la Sonora, colonial minister of the Indies. He was taken to Quito, and from prison he sent three petitions to the Court in Madrid, which decreed, on Charles III's behalf, that the case was to be taken to the Viceroy of Bogotá. President Villalengua feigned ignorance of the matter and sent Espejo to Bogotá to defend his own cause.\n\nThere he met Antonio Nariño and Francisco Antonio Zea and began to develop his ideas on liberty. In 1789, one of his followers, Juan Pio Montufar, arrived in Bogotá, and both men got the approval of important members of the government for the creation of the \"Escuela de la Concordia\", called later the \"Sociedad Patriótica de Amigos del País de Quito\" (Patriotic Society of Friends of the Country of Quito). The Sociedad Económica de los Amigos del País (Economic Society of Friends of the Country) was a private association established in various cities throughout Enlightenment Spain and, to a lesser degree, in some of her colonies. Espejo successfully defended himself on the charges against him, and on October 2, 1789, he was set free. On December 2 he was notified he could return to Quito.\n\nIn 1790, Espejo returned to Quito to promote the \"Sociedad Patriótica\" (Patriotic Society), and on November 30, 1791, a branch was established in the \"Colegio de los Jesuitas\"; he was elected director and formed four commissions. In the same year, he became director of the first public library, the National Library, originally established with the forty thousand volumes left by the Jesuits after their expulsion from Ecuador.\n\nThe main duty of the Society was improving the city of Quito. Its 24 members came together weekly to discuss agricultural, educational, political and social problems and to promote the physical and natural sciences. The Society founded Quito's first newspaper, \"Primicias de la Cultura de Quito\", published by Espejo starting on January 5, 1792. Through this newspaper liberal ideas, already somewhat known in other parts of Hispanic America, were spread among the people of Quito.\n\nOn November 11, 1793, Charles IV dissolved the society. Soon the newspaper disappeared as well. Espejo had no choice but to work as a librarian in the National Library. Because of his liberal ideas, he was imprisoned on January 30, 1795, being allowed to leave his cell only to treat his patients as a doctor and, on December 23, to die at his home from the dysentery he acquired during his imprisonment. Eugenio Espejo died on December 28. His death certificate was registered in the book for Indians, mestizos, blacks and mulattoes.\n\nEugenio Espejo was an autodidact, and he claimed with pride that he never left any book in his hands unread, and if he did, he would make up for it by observing nature. However, his desire to read everything indiscriminately sometimes led him to hasty judgments, which appear in his manuscripts. Through his own written work, it can be inferred that Espejo considered education as the main means for popular development. He understood that reading was basic in the formation of the self, and his conscience drove him to critiques of the establishment, based on observation and in the application of the law of his time.\n\nBy his writing, Espejo wanted to educate the people and to awaken a rebellious spirit in them. He embraced equality between Indians and criollos, an ideal that was ignored during the future processes of independence. He also favored women's rights but did not really develop these ideas. He had an advanced understanding of science, considering the circumstances in which he lived. He never traveled abroad but nonetheless understood the relation between microorganisms and the spreading of disease.\n\nWhen he was arrested, it was rumored that his detention resulted from his support of the \"impieties\" of the French Revolution. However, Espejo was one of the few people at the time who distinguished between the actual deeds of the French Revolution and the irreligious spirit connected to it, while his contemporaries in Spain and the colonies erroneously identified the emancipation of the Americas with loss of the Catholic faith. The accusation of impiety was calculated to incite popular hatred against him. Espejo never lost his faith in Catholicism throughout his lifetime. He condemned the decadence of the clergy, but he never criticized the Church itself. Eugenio Espejo had a restless desire for knowledge and was anxious to reform by his works a state that seemed to him, influenced as he was by the Enlightenment, to be barbarian in every way.\n\nThe goal of Espejo's first three works was the intellectual improvement of Quito. \"El Nuevo Luciano de Quito\" ridiculed the outdated educational system maintained by the clergy. Espejo argued that the people of Quito were accustomed to adulation and that they admired any preacher who could quote the Bible in a pompous and insubstantial way. \"Marco Porcio Catón\" exposed the ignorance of the pseudointellectuals of Quito. \"La ciencia blancardina\", in which Espejo claimed to be the author of the previous two works, condemned the results of the clergy's educational system: ignorance and affectation. All three works caused polemic.\nThrough these three books, Espejo advanced the ideas of European and American scholars such as Feijoo and the Jesuits Verney and Guevara, among others. As a result, many religious orders modified their educational programs. Espejo resented the pseudointellectuals who misled the thought of the city of Quito, disregarding people who were actually knowledgeable.\n\nEspejo particularly criticized the Jesuits for, among other things, teaching ethics not as a science but as a guide to good manners and for their adoption of Probabilism as a moral guide. He complained about the lax system for educating priests in Quito and said it instilled slothful habits in students. As a result, the priests had no real idea of their duties towards society and God and had little inclination to study. In \"El Nuevo Luciano de Quito\", he lamented the large number of quacks who pretended to be doctors. In \"La ciencia blancardina\" he continued his attack on these quacks while attacking clerics who worked as physicians without adequate medical education.\n\nIn 1780, in his first discussion of purely religious matters, Espejo wrote a theological letter, \"Carta al Padre la Graña sobre indulgencias\" (Letter to Father la Graña about indulgences). In this work, he looked at indulgences in the Catholic Church. The letter showed a profound knowledge of theology and dogma. It analyzed the historical beginnings of indulgences and their development and cited decrees and bulls written about abuses of indulgences. In this work, Espejo staunchly supported the authority of the Pope.\n\nOn July 19, 1792, Espejo wrote another letter, \"Segunda carta teológica sobre la Inmaculada Concepción de María\" (Second theological letter about Mary's Immaculate Conception), in response to a request by the inspector of the Holy Office. This letter dealt with the Immaculate Conception of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Once more, this work showed its author's deep knowledge of this religious subject and his appreciation of its standing in the 18th century. (The Immaculate Conception was not formally decreed as dogma until 1950.)\n\nEspejo also wrote a series of sermons, which were notable in their simplicity. Ecuadorian historian and cleric Federico González Suárez considered these sermons worthy of study, even though he mentioned that they lacked an \"evangelic spirit.\" Espejo can be considered a deeply religious man.\n\nStarting in 1785, Espejo took an interest in the welfare of his community and the prosperity of Quito. His works between that year and 1792 clearly show the influence of Enlightenment philosophers, whose ideas Espejo adapted to local conditions. As many thinkers realized the power of economics as a social force, Espejo, influenced by Feijoo and Adam Smith among others, showed his desire for commercial and agricultural reforms, especially conservation and proper use of land. To advance these ideas, he founded the \"Escuela de la Concordia\" (School of Concord).\n\nHis \"Voto de un ministro togado de la Audiencia de Quito\" and \"Memorias sobre el corte de quinas\" rejected a proposed monopoly of quinine production by the Crown intended to prevent the destruction of the cinchona tree and to expand the Royal Treasury's income. \"Memorias\" was dedicated to Fernando Cuadrado, who opposed the monopoly.\n\nEspejo divided his cinchona study into four parts. In the first, he argued that the monopoly would leave workers without jobs and that it would mean the loss of capital invested in cinchona trees. In the second part, he made a number of suggestions, such as developing certain \"natural\" products of a region with the aim of exporting them. For instance, in Chile the production of wines should be prioritized, in Argentina the production of leather, and so forth. In the third part he showed that many workers benefited from the quinine industry, that without it there would be unemployment and unrest, and that the Crown should designate officials to regulate the proper cultivation of the cinchona tree, including reforestation. In the fourth part he made recommendations, such as the need to repress indigenous hostility in the cinchona tree region.\n\nHis \"Defensa de los curas de Riobamba\" was written in response to a report from Ignacio Barreto that accused the clergy in Riobamba of various unethical practices. Among other things, the report said that the large number of religious celebrations in Riobamba (frequented by Indians) were prejudicial to Catholic faith, agriculture, industry and the interests of the Crown; also, that priests demanded money from the Indians for entrance into churches and for certain ceremonies, that priests in Riobamba were immoral and finally that most sermons were incomprehensible to the Indians.\nEspejo attacked Barreto's report in three ways. First, he claimed that Barreto, supposed author of the report, was not capable of writing it. Then he argued that the allegations were exaggerated semi-truths or outright lies. And finally he claimed that the economic problems of Quito could not be solved by exploiting its human resources (the Indians) but by planning and taking advantage of the natural resources of the region.\n\nEspejo realized that the charges against the clergy were so serious that he had to focus on destroying Barreto's credibility. Therefore, he implied that Barreto's own conduct was outrageous because of his excesses in collecting taxes and his habit of paying public funds to licentious women. Additionally, he stated that the real author of the report was José Miguel Vallejo, whom he called an immoral man who despised the clergy. Thus, Espejo claimed the report should not be believed.\n\nIt appears that Espejo was motivated more by the opportunity to attack his personal enemies in this work than to analyze the case and defend the clergy of Riobamba. Still, his talent as a lawyer can be seen in his \"Representaciones\" (Representations), which caused him to be freed after his arrest in 1787 for his supposed authorship of \"El Retrato de Golilla\". In these documents, he defended his loyalty to the Crown, commented on the unfairness of his captivity by mentioning the indignation that many distinguished men felt about his arrest, and clarified his writing goals. This served him as a prelude to his main subject: denying being the author of \"El Retrato de Golilla\"\n\nThe Spanish Crown was deeply concerned with public health. Diseases had always troubled the colonies, and town councils spent money to bring physicians or sanitary equipment from other parts of the Americas. Reports by doctors about the sanitary and hygienic conditions of various neighborhoods of the cities were frequent. As a man of science, Eugenio Espejo demonstrated his knowledge of the latest scientific advances in Europe and the Americas. Most of the arguments and recommendations he made in his medical works can be found in contemporary sources, such as the \"Mémoires\" of the French Academy of Sciences.\nThe Presidency of Quito was especially concerned with prevention of smallpox. Villalengua, President of the Audiencia, gathered all of Quito's physicians to discuss the application of methods suggested by the Spanish scientist Francisco Gil, and Espejo was asked to write his \"Reflexiones acerca de un método para preservar a los pueblos de las viruelas\".\" \"Reflexiones\", completed on November 11, 1785, was divided in two parts: the first dealt with prevention of smallpox in Quito, while the second dealt with obstacles on the path to its eradication. Espejo's knowledge of inoculations and the quarantine of smallpox victims was remarkably advanced for his day.\n\n\"Reflexiones\" recommended using proven methods supported by Spanish and foreign doctors. It refuted the common belief that the separation and destruction of contaminated clothes was impractical, and it promoted personal hygiene among the people of Quito. Espejo tried to convince people of the dangers of smallpox. He understood the current European medical theories about contagious diseases and warned against the incorrect belief that smallpox was transmitted by polluted air. Citing the English doctor Thomas Sydenham, he suggested the construction of an isolated country house as a hospital.\n\nDealing with sanitation, Espejo observed that the hospital (\"Hospital de la Misericordia\") of the city, the monasteries and the places of worship were filthy and that this would certainly contribute to future epidemics. He disapproved of the custom of burying the dead inside churches; instead, he suggested burying the dead outside the city limits in a graveyard chosen by the Church and owned by the town council. Finally, he condemned the management of the hospital by the Bethlehemites. He said their methods were outdated and that they provided poor service. The staff of the hospital reacted badly to this, and Espejo lost the friendship of his mentor, José del Rosario.\n\nEspejo is considered the precursor of the independence movement in Quito. He died in 1795, but his ideas had a powerful influence on three of his close friends: Juan Pío Montúfar, Juan de Dios Morales and Juan de Salinas. They, along with Manuel Rodriguez Quiroga, founded the revolutionary movement of August 10, 1809, in Quito, when the city declared independence from Spain.\n\nEspejo published Quito's first newspaper, and therefore he is regarded as the founder of Ecuadorian journalism. He is considered Ecuador's first literary critic; according to Spanish scholar Marcelino Menéndez y Pelayo, Espejo's \"Nuevo Luciano\" is the oldest critical work written in South America.\n\nHis influence can as well be seen in Ecuadorian thought in general, as his work has been one of its principal influences; Ecuadorian education, as he promoted new pedagogical ideas, such as the creation of good citizens instead of merely imparting knowledge, and finally Ecuadorian science, as he was, along with Pedro Vicente Maldonado, one of the two most important scientists of colonial Ecuador. Espejo analyzed the reality of colonial Quito, the poverty of its people and their lack of good education, and he denounced the corruption of the colonial authorities.\n\nSince 2000, Espejo has been depicted on the obverse of Ecuador's 10 centavo coin.\n\n\na. There are discrepancies about the origin of the surnames \"Santa Cruz y Espejo;\" José del Rosario declared that his father, Luis Espejo, was first named Benítez, changed his surname to Chusig and finally to Espejo. Ecuadorian researcher Alberto Muñoz Vernaza claimed that his real surname was Espejo and that the name Chusig (owl) was a nickname Espejo had in Cajamarca. According to José del Rosario, the surname \"Santa Cruz\" was added \"because of devotion\" (Astuto, Philip L., \"Eugenio Espejo (1747–1795). Reformador ecuatoriano de la Ilustración\", p. 73).\n\nb. Freile maintains that the notion of Espejo's indigenous origins sustained by most modern historians comes from their interpretation of the claims made against him by his contemporary enemies, who called him \"indio\" (Indian) in order to slander him in a racist society.\n\nc. Its full name is \"El nuevo Luciano de Quito o Despertador de los ingenios quiteños en nueve conversaciones eruditas para el estímulo de la literatura\".\n\nd. Aware of the prejudices of the society of his time, Espejo requested a dossier that proved his Spanish lineage. The dossier mentioned that Espejo's mother was born from a noble Navarran family. When he asked for the post of librarian in 1781, he showed that certificate (Astuto, 78–79).\n\ne. Its full name is \"Marco Porcio Catón o Memorias para la impugnación del nuevo Luciano de Quito\".\n\nf. \"He has average height, long face, long nose, tanned skin, and a visible hole on the left side of his face\" (Herrera, Pablo, \"Ensayo sobre la historia de la literatura ecuatoriana\", pp. 125, 145).\n\ng. The authorities finally found evidence against Espejo when his brother, Juan Pablo, told his lover, Francisca Navarrete, about the plans of Eugenio. He was charged with treachery to the Crown (Astuto, 94).\n\nh. One of his characters thought it paradoxical to live in what he called \"the era of idiocy and . . . the century of ignorance\" and yet refer to it as the Age of Enlightenment. (Weber, David J., \"Spaniards and Their Savages in the Age of Enlightenment\", p. 5).\n\ni. \"Los miserables indios, en tanto que no tengan, por patrimonio y bienes de fortuna, más que sólo sus brazos, no han de tener nada que perder. Mientras no los traten mejor; no les paguen con más puntualidad, su cortísimo salario; no les aumenten el que deben llevar por su trabajo; no les introduzcan el gusto de vestir, de comer, y de la policía en general; no les hagan sentir que son hermanos, nuestros estimables y nobilísimos siervos, nada han de tener que ganar, y por consiguiente la pérdida ha de ser ninguna\" (Biblioteca de Autores Ecuatorianos de Clásicos Ariel, 24).\n\nj. According to Philip Astuto, \"He thought that the solution to such plain ignorance was the construction of schools and the education of youth without excluding women\" (Astuto, 93).\n\nk. \"Si se pudieran apurar más las observaciones microscópicas, aún más allá a lo que las adelantaron Malpigio, Reaumur, Buffon y Needham, quizá encontraríamos en la incubación, desarrollamiento, situación, figura, movimiento y duración de estos corpúsculos móvibles, la regla que podría servir a explicar toda la naturaleza, grados, propiedades y síntomas de todas las fiebres epidémicas, y en particular de la Viruela\" (Biblioteca de Autores Ecuatorianos de Clásicos Ariel, 22).\n\nl. Its full name is \"Carta del padre La Graña del orden de San Francisco, sobre indulgencias escrita por el mismo doctor Espejo, tomando el nombre de este padre que fue sabio y de gran erudición\".\n\nm. In 1792, the Dominicans of the Convento Máximo de Quito published a series of theological theses. One of them stated that original sin was transmitted to every single descendant of Adam, without exception. As it never mentioned the subject of the Virgin Mary, it was rumoured that the Dominicans took the view that Mary was born with original sin. The Inspector denounced the thesis, and in face of the protest of the Dominicans, entrusted Espejo with replying to the Dominican thesis and rebutting their ideas (Astuto, 138).\n\nn. Its full name is \"Reflexiones sobre la virtud, importancia y conveniencias que propone don Francisco Gil, cirujano del Real Monasterio de San Lorenzo y su sitio, e individuo de la Real Academia Médica de Madrid, en su Disertación físico-médica, acerca de un método seguro para preservar a los pueblos de las viruelas\".\nNote: \"There is no available bibliography in English about Eugenio Espejo\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47878019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47878019", "title": "European Health Examination Survey", "text": "European Health Examination Survey\n\nThe European Health Examination Survey (EHES) is an ongoing series of large-scale clinical epidemiological studies. It is a cooperative effort among multiple European nations, in concert with the European Union (EU), the European Economic Area (EEA) and the European Free Trade Area (EFTA). While actual data collection is carried out through the health ministries of each participating nation, the coordination of these efforts across borders is under the jurisdiction of the European Commission's Directorate-General for Health and Food Safety.\n\nA health examination survey consists of the collection of both interview data (in the form of a self-guided questionnaire, an interview with a medical professional, or both) and physical examination data such as blood testing and weight measurement.\n\nThe EHES is officially a project of the European Commission's \"Directorate-General Santé et Consommateurs\" (Directorate-General for Health and Consumers, DG SANCO). It is a goal of the EHES project to include HES participation from all EU, EEA and EFTA countries.\n\nThe importance of medical examination data that can be correlated across populations, and EHES's contributions in that regard, have been noted by a number of healthcare researchers and policymakers.\n\nEHES data have furthermore been used as the basis for more specific studies, such as examination of issues in participation rates in healthcare surveys and identification of groups with risk factors for metabolic syndrome.\n\nNational-level Health Examination Surveys (HES) had been carried out by multiple European countries beginning in the late 1950s, with increased interest in conducting HESs by national governments beginning around the year 2000, but there was no standardisation of parameters between countries prior to 2009. With nearly 20 European countries planning to conduct their own HESs within a five-year window, it was decided that standardization of survey protocols was a priority.\n\nFrom 2006–2008, the feasibility of creating a single standardized HES for all European Union (EU) member nations and all members of the European Free Trade Association/European Economic Area (EFTA/EEA) was evaluated by the Feasibility of the European Health Examination Survey (FEHES) Project. This project concluded that such a standardized HES was indeed feasible, and proposed a two-phase approach to the EHES project. Phase one would involve establishing centralized coordination for the project, conducting pilot surveys for an initial 8–12 nations, and designing and preparing full-scale surveys for those initial HESs. Phase two would involve carrying out the full-scale surveys in the initial 8–12 nations, and coordinating the design and preparation of full-scale surveys in the other European countries.\n\nFEHES also made recommendations regarding data management; documentation and reporting; establishing and maintaining international collaboration; ethical and legal issues; measurements to be included in the pilot HESs; models for the organization of national HES infrastructure; recruitment or study participants; sampling issues; and standardization of measurement protocols.\n\nThe countries expected to be part of an eventual Europe-wide Health Examination Survey as of 2008 were Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the former Yugoslavian Republic of Macedonia, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe pilot project for the European HES, funded by the European Commission, was carried out from 2009–2012. Coordination for the pilot project was administered by the EHES Pilot Reference Centre (EHES RC), a collaboration between Finland's National Institute for Health and Welfare (THL), Italy's Istituto Superiore di Sanità (ISS), and Norway's Statistics Norway (SSB).\nEHES RC created a centralised system for data management and reporting of survey data, designed and produced training seminars for participating countries, provided logistical support to countries participating in the pilot studies, published standardized HES protocols in an \"EHES Manual\", and supervised both internal and external quality control for the EHES. The \"EHES Manual\" defined protocols for health measurements, described organization of the fieldwork, discussed ethical issues, established definitions of data-reporting indicators, included information on sampling, and provided \"other details relating to the planning and conducting of a national HES.\" The final version of the \"EHES Manual\" incorporated revisions based on discoveries made during the pilot program.\n\nPilot project preliminary surveys were carried out in 12 countries: the Czech Republic, Finland, Germany, Greece, Italy, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, and the UK. (In Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and the UK, HESs were already under way when the pilot program began, thus the primary focus of the pilot program in those countries was evaluating the feasibility of converting the existing programs to match the EHES standards.) Initially, Hungary and Spain were going to be included in the pilot project as well, but logistical problems prevented their participation. The countries included were chosen based on their either already having begun a national HES, or being in the early planning stages for such a survey. These pilot studies established standardised protocols for the measurement of key risk factors for chronic disease, such as blood lipids, blood glucose, blood pressure, height, waist circumference and weight. Standardised questions for the questionnaire portion of the EHES were also developed, covering such topics as current health status, smoking history, socio-economic status, and use of health care services; as much as possible, questions conformed to the European Health Interview Survey.\n\nPlans for training of personnel were developed, as were plans for external quality assessment. The minimum sample size in each pilot project country was 200 individuals between 25 and 64 years of age. The pilot survey project succeeded at standardizing HES measurements across populations despite participant countries having differing cultural settings, economic statuses, infrastructures and levels of previous experience conducting an HES.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24468959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24468959", "title": "Euthanasia in Mexico", "text": "Euthanasia in Mexico\n\nLegislation on euthanasia in Mexico distinguishes between passive and active euthanasia. Since 7 January 2008 the law allows the terminally ill —or closest relatives, if unconscious— to refuse medication or further medical treatment that may extend life (known as passive euthanasia) in Mexico City, in the state of Aguascalientes (since 6 April 2009) and, since 1 September 2009, in the state of Michoacán. \n\nWhile the exact procedure may vary, the regional laws dealing with living wills —usually called — generally require a notary public to witness the instructions left by the patient.\n\nAs for active euthanasia, the Party of the Democratic Revolution (PRD) and the Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI) have introduced bills to decriminalize it in both the Senate (2007) and the Legislative Assembly of the Federal District (2009), but have failed to change the Article 166 bis 21 of the General Health Law, which still defines euthanasia as mercy homicide. In addition, , 18 out of 31 states have modified their constitution under pressure from the dominant Catholic Church to protect the right to life \"from the moment of conception until natural death\", effectively discarding any initiative contemplating active euthanasia within state borders.\n\nOfficial statistics are scarce but bioethicist Horacio García Romero claims that up to 45% of the terminally-ill patients in the country demand some form of passive euthanasia. On October 2010 the secretary of health for Mexico City announced that, since the legalization of passive euthanasia, 497 patients have formalized the process, including at least 41 out-of-state residents and 2 citizens of the United States. \n\nAccording to a Parametría poll conducted in February 2008, 59% of Mexicans think doctors should have the legal right to end the life of a person suffering from an incurable illness upon a request by the patient and his or her relatives, while 35% disagree. \n\nIts main opponents, pro-life activists and Christian churches —particularly the dominant Roman Catholic Church— have strongly lobbied against active euthanasia and promote different bills protecting the right to life \"from the moment of conception until natural death.\" However, regional bills supporting passive euthanasia have been endorsed by several Catholic clergymen, including the archbishops of León and Morelia.\n\nA drug known as liquid pentobarbital is used by owners to euthanize pets. When given to humans, the drug can give them a painless death in under one hour. The pet shops across Mexico have such drugs. As a result, elderly tourists from across the globe seeking to terminate their own lives were reported to be flying out to Mexico. \n\n"}
{"id": "19438634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19438634", "title": "Forensic Medicine Division", "text": "Forensic Medicine Division\n\nThe Forensic Medicine Division of the Applied Sciences Group of the Health Sciences Authority is a forensic medical consultancy service of the government of Singapore. The Centre provides professional consultancy services in the field of forensic medicine, primarily to law enforcement in support of the coronial death investigation system in Singapore as well as criminal investigations into homicidal deaths. The Division operates a mortuary facility in Block 9, a Singapore General Hospital building along Outram Road.\n\nIn the 1960s to 1980s, the Department of Forensic Medicine (DFM) was a section within the Department of Pathology under the Ministry of Health. In 1989, it was known as the Department of Forensic Medicine within the Institute of Science and Forensic Medicine (ISFM). When the Health Sciences Authority (HSA) of Singapore came into being in April 2001, DFM was renamed the Centre for Forensic Medicine and became one of seven centres within the Health Sciences Authority. With effect from 1 August 2008, it is renamed the Forensic Medicine Division, a part of the Applied Sciences Group, Health Sciences Authority.\n\nFrom the 1960s, the section and then Department of Forensic Medicine was led by the late Professor Chao Tzee Cheng, who is deemed by many to be the \"Father of Forensic Medicine\" in Singapore. Prof Chao had been involved in many high-profile homicides and had documented some of them in his book \"Murder is my Business\". The current Divisional Director is Dr. Paul Chui.\n\nFMD provides medical consultancy services to the State Coroner in support of death investigation in Singapore. It also provides forensic medical consultancy on request in clinical forensic cases. It also provides technical support to the Singapore Police Force in the handling of sexual assault kits. Autopsy services for non-Coroner's cases are also available on request.\n\nThe Division is staffed by Forensic Pathologists, Technical support officers, Mortuary technicians and administrative staff. It has been accredited by the National Association of Medical Examiners (NAME), successfully in 2005, the first centre to achieve accreditation outside of North America. The late Professor Chao Tzee Cheng, generally acknowledged as the Father of Forensic Medicine in Singapore, was the first professional head. Dr Wee Keng Poh took over the helm in the late 1990s. The team is now headed by Dr Paul Chui since April 2001.\n\nThe mortuary facility resides on the ground floor of Block 9 along Outram Road. Prior to this location, the mortuary was located at the present junction of Second Hospital Avenue and Outram Road. Presently, the facility houses a main autopsy suite as well as an adjoining x-ray facility and an isolation autopsy suite. Originally built in the early 1980s, it was extensively renovated and upgraded in March to June 2003, during the SARS outbreak in Singapore. Part of the upgrading in 2003 included a larger public waiting area, incorporation of biosafety systems and practices; and re-orientation of the internal layout with sequestration of claiming areas. Transformational change to the grounds meant that trees and shrubs that once hid the building from view for decades were pruned to introduce more natural lighting to the compound as well as the waiting area; to alleviate the sense of gloom and doom and the sense of fear and trepidation to passers-by as well as leading to overall improvement of security in the compound.\n\n"}
{"id": "37020201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37020201", "title": "Gary B. Mesibov", "text": "Gary B. Mesibov\n\nGary B. Mesibov is a Licensed Psychologist, Psychology professor, editor and an author.\n\nMesibov received his Bachelor of Arts degree from Stanford University and his Master of Arts degree from the University of Michigan. He received his doctorate from Brandeis University and completed his postdoctoral fellowship at the University of North Carolina.\n\nMesibov was a professor of psychology at the University of North Carolina (UNC) at Chapel Hill for 35 years. All but 4 of those 35 years Mesibov was on the UNC Treatment and Education of Autistic and Related Communication Handicapped Children (TEACCH) faculty. From 1992 to 2012 he was the TEACCH director. TEACCH, founded by UNC psychiatry and psychology professor Eric Schopler, is a \"pioneering\" program for assisting with autism spectrum disorder education, research and service delivery for children and adults. As a result of his work, he is an \"internationally recognized leader in autism research and practice.\"\n\nBy 1984, Mesibov noted pediatric psychologists worked frequently with developmental disorders in children. Specifically, children with \"mental retardation, learning disabilities, cerebral palsy, autism, and related developmental problems. When not working directly with children, pediatric psychologists role included had a few other components. The demand and importance of parent training for children with developmental problems made it the subject of the Society of Pediatric Psychology (SPP) programming at the American Psychological Association (APA) convention for 1983. The collaboration with other professionals on site (e.g., speech and language therapists) provided education in outside domains and in working as a member of an interdisciplinary team. Furthermore, pediatric psychologists helped to create programs in the community addressing children's needs.\n\nIn a brief article following his reception of the 1990 Distinguished Service Award from the SPP, Mesibov reflected on three unique, or \"special\" characteristics he identified within the field of pediatric psychology. Specifically, he applauded the field's practical application to tackle difficult human needs, multidisciplinary approach, and character of pediatric psychologists he has worked with throughout his career.\n\nBy 1976, Mesibov was serving as Associate Editor and Don Routh began serving as Editor on the \"Journal of Pediatric Psychology\" (JPP). Common topics of the JPP included chronic pain and hyperactivity. He was an editorial board member for the \"Journal of Pediatric Psychology\" and the \"Journal of Clinical Child Psychology\".\n\nFrom 1997 to 2007, Mesibov served as Editor for the \"Journal of Autism and Developmental Disorders\". The journal, which publishes 10 issues per year, is a scholarly journal that focuses on all aspects of autism spectrum disorders and related developmental disabilities.\n\nIn the field of developmental disorders and autism spectrum disorders, Mesibov has published articles, books, editorials, research papers and contributed to published books.\n\n\nFor his work, Mesibov has received numerous awards within the United States and internationally, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "11032443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11032443", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Botswana", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Botswana\n\nBotswana is experiencing one of the most severe HIV/AIDS epidemics in the world. The national HIV prevalence rate among adults ages 15 to 49 is 24.8 percent, which is the third highest in the world, behind Lesotho and Swaziland. HIV/AIDS threatens the many developmental gains Botswana has achieved since its independence in 1966, including economic growth, political stability, a rise in life expectancy, and the establishment of functioning public educational and health care systems.\n\nThe prevalence and impact of HIV/AIDS in Botswana is notoriously hard to estimate. For example, it was in 2006 calculated that high HIV infection rates should cause slight annual population decline. However the 2011 census showed robust population growth averaging 1.9% per year since the previous census in 2001.\n\nBotswana is in general well-equipped and with strong infrastructure to test the population for HIV, meaning the level of contamination may in fact be on par with other African nations, whilst being reported as being the nation with the second highest HIV prevalence rates in the world. The primary mode of transmission is heterosexual contact, with the military and young women at higher risk of HIV infection than other sectors of the population. Young women (ages 15–24) who have HIV in Botswana outnumber young men with HIV by more than two-to-one. The national incidence rate is 1.5 per cent, or more than 15,000 new infections per year. HIV infection rates vary by geographical region: They are highest in cities, lower in towns, and lowest in villages. Extended families and communities have exhibited resourcefulness and generosity in their willingness to absorb and care for orphaned children, but this capacity is being exhausted, especially as the current generation of grandparents begins to die. Although the country has been somewhat effective in fighting HIV, it remains particularly prevalent in eastern regions such as Bobirwa and Selebi Phikwe, where the prevalence remains as high as 40%.\n\nFollowing the first reported case of HIV in Botswana in 1985, the country's response was mainly focused on screening blood to eliminate the risk of transmission through transfusion. Public spending on tackling HIV/AIDS was minimal by today's standards and remained so until 1997. Consequently, while life expectancy in Botswana stood at 65 years in 1990, it was estimated to have fallen to 57 by 1997 and to just 35 in 2005. However, after the 2011 census life expectancy was revised upwards to 54.5 years. In 1997, the government of Quett Masire outlined a 'national vision' (Vision 2016) to outline the country's long-term aims. It stated that \"By the year 2016, the spread of the HIV virus that causes AIDS will have stopped, so that there will be no new infections by the virus in that year.\"\n\nSince 1997, the government has been significantly more proactive in combating the epidemic. Under the governments of Festus Mogae, a programme was introduced in 1999 for the Prevention of Mother-to-Child Transmission (PMTCT). In August 2000, the Gates Foundation, with the Harvard AIDS Initiative and the pharmaceutical companies Merck and Bristol-Myers Squibb, started an HIV/AIDS treatment program, working with the government. The program's target was to treat every citizen of Botswana infected with HIV/AIDS. In addition, anti-retrovirals (ARVs) would be given out to those who were at an advanced stage of the disease. However, Botswana lacked adequate health-care workers and a stable medical infrastructure to implement the program. In 2003, the government introduced the first National Strategic Framework against AIDS. In 2004, with adult HIV prevalence at nearly 40 percent nationwide, the government introduced routine HIV testing for citizens. By 2008, spending on Botswana's response to HIV/AIDS had risen to US$340 million, of which approximately two-thirds was provided by Botswana's central government (a significantly higher proportion than in other sub-Saharan nations).\n\nIn 2011, the Ministry of Education introduced new HIV/AIDS education technology for schools. The TeachAIDS prevention software, developed at Stanford University, was distributed to every primary, secondary, and tertiary educational institution in the country, reaching all learners from 6 to 24 years of age. There is evidence that these policies are having some impact, for example HIV prevalence among 15- to 19-year-olds fell from 24.7 percent in 2001 to 13.2 percent in 2009. However, at the household level, families face increasing health expenditures to meet the needs of family members with HIV/AIDS. At the same time, they are experiencing loss of income as productive family members become sick and die.\n\nBotswana's workforce is being depleted as many productive adults develop AIDS and are no longer able to work. According to the US State Department, between 1999 and 2005 Botswana lost approximately 17 percent of its health care workforce due to AIDS. By 2020, it has been projected that the loss in agricultural labour force due to AIDS could be more than 23 percent.\n\n"}
{"id": "49486090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49486090", "title": "Hadiyah-Nicole Green", "text": "Hadiyah-Nicole Green\n\nHadiyah-Nicole Green is an African-American medical physicist known for her part in the development of a process that has the potential to help in the evolution of a novel cancer treatment using laser-activated nanoparticles. She is one of 66 black women to earn a Ph.D. in physics in the United States between 1973 and 2012, and is the second black woman and the fourth black person ever to earn a doctoral degree in physics from the University of Alabama Birmingham.\n\nGreen was orphaned at a young age and raised by her aunt and uncle in St. Louis, Missouri. She was the first in her family to attend college.\n\nAfter her high school graduation, Green attended a summer program in computer science at Xavier University of Louisiana. She then attended Alabama A&M University with a full scholarship, where she studied physics and earned her bachelor's degree in physics and optics in 2003. Her experiences at Xavier and Alabama A&M led her to become a strong advocate for HBCUs because it gave herself a chance to get to know herself and develop as her own person.\n\nGreen continued her education at the University of Alabama Birmingham with another full scholarship, where she earned her Master of Science in physics in 2009 and her Ph.D. in physics in 2012. She spent five years at Comprehensive Cancer Center, and one year at the Department of Pathology. \n\nBetween her undergraduate and graduate work, Green's aunt, Ora Lee, was diagnosed with cancer, but refused to go through treatment. Green spent about three months taking care of her aunt until she died. However, her uncle, General Lee Smith, was also diagnosed with cancer three months after her aunt's death. While tending to her uncle, Green watched as her uncle suffered from the side-effects of chemotherapy and radiation, which, to her, seemed little better than what her aunt went through. These experiences led to Green's interest in developing new cancer treatments. She realized the impact of chemotherapy on the body and wanted to find a better treatment for it. \n\nIt was after an internship at NASA that Green realized that lasers were capable of so much more and significant to cancer research. She wanted to use her background in lasers to target cancerous cells without hurting healthy cells. Specifically, lasers are used to \"illuminate\" the nanoparticles so that they luminesce in order to create an image of cancerous cells and decrease the amount of time it takes to target these cells. \n\nWhile conducting her doctoral research, Green was a member of a team that developed a laboratory method to insert nanoparticles into cancer cells while avoiding surrounding healthy cells. The tissue incorporating the nanoparticles heats up due to directed laser radiation, which then destroys the cancer cells. She first tested her ideas with cancer cells in a petri dish, then moved on to small animal models using mice. However much more research is needed to be able to extend this nanoparticle treatment to whole animals and then humans. \n\nGreen founded the Ora Lee foundation after her aunt Ora Lee who died from cervical/ovarian cancer. The goal of the foundation is to change essentially the pain associated with chemotherapy and radiation as a result of cancer. Additionally, she wanted to make sure that cancer treatments were affordable to the average person and that works. She understood the financial strain by having cancer after going through it with her aunt and uncle.\n\nFollowing graduate school, Green became an assistant professor at Tuskegee University in the Department of Material Science and Engineering. In 2016 she became an assistant professor at Morehouse School of Medicine in the Physiology department. She received a $1.1 million grant from the Veterans Affairs’ Office of Research & Development to begin clinical trials. Green has reservations about her laser-nanoparticle treatment because it has not gone through immunotherapy or the clinical trial process. She believes that she will need over 20 million dollars to advance the research and get it through the clinical trial process. Green dedicates much of her spare time to speaking to and mentoring young black students.\n"}
{"id": "16540901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16540901", "title": "Health care in Turkey", "text": "Health care in Turkey\n\nHealth care in Turkey consists of a mix of public and private health services. Turkey has universal health care under its Universal Health Insurance (\"Genel Sağlık Sigortası\") system. Under this system, all residents registered with the Social Security Institution (SGK) can receive medical treatment free of charge in hospitals contracted to the SGK.\n\nDue to major health reforms in the 2000s and 2010s, universal health insurance coverage for the population was achieved, and the general quality of health services improved greatly, with patient satisfaction rising from 39.5% in 2003 to 75.9% in 2011.\n\nThe following medical treatments are covered by the SGK:\n\n\nWhile some SGK-contracted hospitals offer dental care, in most cases, patients must rely on private dental services and are responsible for covering the costs. In addition, patients must partially cover the cost of some prescription drugs and outpatient services.\n\nThere is also a large private healthcare sector. Private health services often offer shorter waiting lists and higher quality services. Most banks and insurance companies offer health plans, and contract with certain hospitals and doctors.\n\nThe Turkish healthcare system used to be dominated by a centralized state system run by the Ministry of Health. In 2003 the governing Justice and Development Party introduced a sweeping health reform program aimed at increasing the ratio of private to state health provision and making health care available to a larger share of the population. Information from the Turkish Statistical Institute states that 76.3 billion liras are being spent on healthcare annually, with 79.6% of funding coming from the Social Security Institute and most of the remainder (15.4%) coming from out-of-pocket payments. There are 27.954 medical institutions, 1.7 doctor for every 1000 people and 2.54 beds for 1000 people.\n\nPrivate healthcare has increased in Turkey in the last decade due to the long queues and personal service in state-run hospitals. Most private hospitals have contracts with various insurance companies so it is now possible to receive treatment that varies from the state. After rising competition from private hospitals, there has been an increase in the quality of state hospitals. At 7.6% of gross domestic product (GDP) in 2005, Turkey’s public expenditure on national health was below average than that of the developed countries, although the percentage has increased steadily since 2000. In the early 2000s, about 63 percent of health expenditures came from public sources. In 2006 there was one doctor for every 700 people, one nurse for every 580 people, and one hospital bed for every 380 people. The rural population is poorly served by the health care system, which is much more developed in the western half of the country. Between 80 and 90 percent of the population, including self-employed workers, have health care provided by the national pension system, but are often drawn to private health providers in urban areas due to the higher-quality care. Although the private health industry has grown rapidly since the 1990s, only about 2% of the population, mainly in urban areas, has private health insurance. In 2005 about 75 percent of private health expenditures were out-of-pocket rather than being covered by insurance.\n\nTurkey had a scheme called green card (Yeşil Kart), which was developed in order to help low-income social group to get medical help. Spending on this system were equal to 40 billion TL in 2010. Due to this fact, the system was reformed in 2011 and the number of people who could benefit from this system was reduced. Following the 2012 Universal Health Insurance Law, the Green Card system was abolished.\n\nTurkey had the lowest expenditure on healthcare in Europe in 2015 - 6.4% of Gross domestic product.\n\n"}
{"id": "24210413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24210413", "title": "Heroin-assisted treatment", "text": "Heroin-assisted treatment\n\nHeroin-assisted treatment, or diamorphine assisted treatment, refers to the prescribing of synthetic, injectable heroin to opiate addicts who do not benefit from or cannot tolerate treatment with one of the established drugs used in opiate replacement therapy like methadone or buprenorphine (brand name Subutex). For this group of patients, heroin assisted treatment has proven superior in improving their social and health situation. It has also been shown to save money, as it significantly reduces costs incurred by trials, incarceration, health interventions and delinquency. It has also drastically reduced overdose deaths in the countries utilizing it, as patients take their dose in a controlled, professionally supervised setting, and Narcan (naloxone) is on hand in the case of an accidental overdose. Opiate related overdoses in the U.S. kill around 20,000 people per year.\n\nHeroin assisted treatment is fully a part of the national health system in Switzerland, Germany, the Netherlands, Canada, and Denmark. Additional trials are being carried out in the United Kingdom, Norway, and Belgium.\n\nThe British have had system of heroin maintenance since the 1920s. For decades it supplied a few hundred addicts nationwide, most of whom were doctors themselves. It was de-emphasized considerably during the 1960s-1980s as a result of the U.S. led \"war on drugs\". Because of the lack of large-scale trials, only anecdotal evidence existed as to the efficacy of the treatment. This changed in 1994 when Switzerland, faced with one of the largest open drug scenes in Europe at the time, started large-scale trials on the potential use of diamorphine as a maintenance drug. They proved diamorphine to be a viable maintenance drug which has shown equal or better rates of success than methadone in terms of assisting long-term users establish stable, crime-free lives. These results encouraged countries like Germany and the Netherlands to conduct their own trials and finally to include heroin assisted treatment fully as a part of the national health system in 2009. In recent years the British have begun moving towards the inclusion of heroin maintenance programs as a legitimate component of their National Health Service. In 2013 European Union's European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction issued guidelines for the years 2013-2020; for the first time since the EMCDDA's 1995 inception, the group advocated \"reducing the health and social risks and harms caused by drugs\" in addition to longstanding policies of lessening demand and supply. Both the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime and the Transnational Institute have released documents advocating harm-reduction strategies, though only the latter mentions heroin-assisted therapy.\n\nIn 2008, the right-wing Swiss People's Party initiated a national referendum on heroin-assisted treatment. A significant majority (approximately 68%) voted in favor of continuing Swiss HAT programs.\n\nIn the Netherlands, both injectable Diamorphine HCl as injectable salt in dry ampoules as well as Heroin base with 5-10% caffeine for vaporization are available, both are to be taken twice daily in a supervised setting and will be accompanied with a daily take home dosage of methadone for the evening.\n\nIn Switzerland patients may be allowed to appear only once a day and receive part of their diamorphine in pill form for oral consumption. This is possible only after a six-month period and is usually granted only if necessary to hold down a job.\n\nCritics, such as the Drug Free America Foundation, have criticized heroin assisted treatment along with other harm reduction strategies for allegedly creating the perception that certain behaviors can be partaken safely, such as illicit drug use, claiming that this may lead to an increase in that behavior by people who would otherwise be deterred.\n\nSuch shortcomings arguably exist with some \"harm reduction\" measures, such as supervised injection facilities. These facilities provide users with the information and equipment necessary to avoid infection with diseases such as HIV, but leave them dependent on the black market. So users still face the health risk associated with the injection of impure street drugs and they still face the enormous financial strain of financing their addiction.\n\nIn the case of heroin-assisted treatment however, users are provided with a form of pharmaceutical-grade heroin injection solution which doctors consider fit for injection. And as doctors refrain from drastic changes in dose and provide post-injection monitoring, overdoses are rare and can be quickly treated with opioid antagonists like naloxone. Thus, patients in heroin-assisted treatment are relieved from the major complex of problems that defines illicit heroin use. Synthetic heroin taken under the aforementioned conditions is not neurotoxic and has few long-term side effects beside constipation and dependency. And while it had been speculated that the availability of such treatment options might change public perception of the risks associated with drug use and might lead to an increase in illicit drug use, the incidence of heroin abuse in Switzerland has declined sharply since the introduction of heroin assisted treatment. As a study published in The Lancet concluded:\n\nAlso, the notion that patients in heroin assisted treatment are enabled to maintain \"destructive behavior\" contradicts the findings that patients significantly recover in terms of both their social and health situation. A clinical follow-up report on the German \"Heroin studie\" found that 40% of all patients and 68% of those able to work had found employment after four years of treatment. Some even started a family after years of homelessness and delinquency.\n\n"}
{"id": "46328497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46328497", "title": "Home health care software", "text": "Home health care software\n\nHome health care software sometimes referred to as home care software or home health software falls under the broad category of health care information technology (HIT). HIT is “the application of information processing involving both computer hardware and software that deals with the storage, retrieval, sharing, and use of health care information, data, and knowledge for communication and decision making” Home health software is designed specifically for companies employing home health providers, as well as government entities who track payments to home health care providers.\n\nThe first use of home health care software was in the 1990s, with companies making software based on the Omaha system of software. The first software was made available for public health departments, nurse-managed centers, and community clinics. The use of home health care software increased with the technologies of cloud computing, telehealth and business analytical tools. Implementing these technologies with home health software is attributed to the enhancement of quality care at home, and reduction of fraud. During the early stages of 2000s, the home health care software industry expanded from simple databases to agencies being able to transmit electronic health records. There was also an increase in the available types of software as a result of software vendors working directly with health care providers.\n\nThere are clinical and non-clinical applications of home health care software. Including types such as agency software, hospice solutions, clinical management systems, telehealth solutions, and electronic visit verification. Depending on the type of software used, companies can track health care employee visits to patients, verify payroll, and document patient care. Governments can also use home health care software to verify visits from providers who bill them for services. Use of some software is mandated by government agencies such as OASIS assessment information that must be transmitted electronically by home health care providers.\n\nAgency software is used by home health care providers for office use and is a subset of medical practice management software used by inpatient clinics and doctors offices. Agency software is used for billing, paying vendors, staff scheduling, and maintaining records associated with the business. Agency software can be standalone or part of software packages, that include electronic visit verification to track hours of employees and time spent on home visits and patient care. Agency software can be purchased or leased through various vendors.\n\nElectronic visit verification (often referred to as EVV) is a method used to verify home healthcare visits to ensure patients are not neglected and to cut down on fraudulently documented home visits. EVV monitors locations of caregivers, and is mandated by certain states, including Texas and Illinois. Other states do not mandate it, but use it as part of its Medicaid fraud oversight, created by the passing of the Affordable Care Act in 2010. It is also widely used by employers of home healthcare providers to verify employee's locations and hours of work as well as document patient care.\n\nHome health care providers that participate in Medicaid are required to report specific data about patient care known as Outcome and Assessment Information Set-C (OASIS-C). Data includes health status, functional status, and support system information. The data is used to establish a measurement of patient home health care options. Home health care software allows health care providers to obtain and transmit such data while on location with a patient. Data collection is mandated by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, a division of the United States Department of Health and Human Services. Software for collecting and transmitting data is free through CMM and can also be purchased through private vendors as an add-on to other home health care software.\n\nThe software is hosted on servers located and maintained on-site at the agency. The localization of the data provides the agency direct access to the computers hosting their software and may also require the agency to maintain the technology that hosts the software.\n\nThe software is deployed on a cloud system maintained by the software vendor. The off-site maintenance of the cloud system results in a lower cost to the home health agency and provides access to the agency's data from off-site locations.\n\n"}
{"id": "25812466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25812466", "title": "Hughes–Stovin syndrome", "text": "Hughes–Stovin syndrome\n\nHughes–Stovin syndrome is a rare autoimmune disorder of unknown cause that is characterized by the combination of multiple pulmonary artery aneurysms and deep vein thrombosis. It is named after the two British physicians, John Patterson Hughes and Peter George Ingle Stovin, who first described it in 1959. It is a rare variant of Behçet's disease, which entails more general problems with the circulatory system. Most patients are young adult males between the age of 20–40.\nCommon clinical presentations include fever, cough, dyspnea and hemoptysis. Radiological features are similar to those of Behçet's disease. There is no satisfactory treatment for this disease.\n"}
{"id": "55379019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55379019", "title": "Jay Belsky", "text": "Jay Belsky\n\nJay Belsky (born July 7, 1952) is an American child psychologist and the Robert M. and Natalie Reid Dorn Professor of Human Development at the University of California, Davis. He is noted for his research in the fields of child development and family studies. He was a founding investigator of the NICHD Study of Early Child Care and Youth Development in the United States, and of the National Evaluation of Sure Start in the United Kingdom. He has been an ISI Highly Cited Researcher since 2002.\n\nAfter receiving his Ph.D. from Cornell University in 1978, Belsky joined the faculty of Penn State University, where he became a distinguished professor of human development before leaving the faculty there in 1999. From 1999 to 2010, he was a professor of psychology at Birkbeck University of London, where he was also the founding director of the Institute for the Study of Children, Families and Social Issues. He became the Robert M. and Natalie Reid Dorn Professor of Human Development at the University of California, Davis in 2011. Since 2010, he has been a member of the Academy of Europe.\n\nBelsky has published multiple studies reporting that child care is associated with an increased risk of psychological and behavioral problems for children. These studies have been covered extensively by the media, though they have been criticized by some other researchers. One such critic, Kathleen McCartney of the University of New Hampshire, said in 1987 that \"None of the studies Jay [Belsky] talks about look at the quality of child-care arrangements or the family backgrounds\". Partly as a result of the controversy provoked by a study he published in 1986, he later left the United States to work in the United Kingdom.\n"}
{"id": "19025616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19025616", "title": "John E. Fogarty International Center", "text": "John E. Fogarty International Center\n\nThe John E. Fogarty International Center was founded in 1968 by US President Lyndon Johnson at the National Institutes of Health to support international medical and behavioral research and to train international researchers.\n\nOn July 1, 1968 President Lyndon Johnson issued an Executive Order establishing the John E. Fogarty International Center for Advanced Study in the Health Sciences at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) in order to support international medical and behavioral research and to train international researchers..\n\nIn March 2017, the Trump Administration proposed cuts to the NIH budget, including elimination of the Fogarty Center, saving $69 million.\n"}
{"id": "39837667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39837667", "title": "Kuwait Cancer Control Center", "text": "Kuwait Cancer Control Center\n\nThe Kuwait Cancer Control Center or KCCC (Arabic: مركز الكويت لمكافحة السرطان) is a comprehensive center dedicated to the purpose of providing Cancer Care across the State of Kuwait. KCCC has been serving the Kuwaiti cancer population since 1968. With over 600 highly qualified oncology staff, KCCC is a 200 bed hospital complex located in Shuwaikh. The center is made up of seven buildings, each specialized in a treatment area of cancer:\n\n"}
{"id": "52456015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52456015", "title": "Levonorgestrel butanoate", "text": "Levonorgestrel butanoate\n\nLevonorgestrel butanoate (LNG-B) (developmental code name HRP-002), or levonorgestrel 17β-butanoate, is a steroidal progestin of the 19-nortestosterone group which was developed by the World Health Organization (WHO) in collaboration with the Contraceptive Development Branch (CDB) of the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development as a long-acting injectable contraceptive. It is the C17β butanoate ester of levonorgestrel, and acts as a prodrug of levonorgestrel in the body. The drug is at or beyond the phase III stage of clinical development, but has not been marketed at this time. It was first described in the literature, by the WHO, in 1983, and has been under investigation for potential clinical use since then.\n\nLNG-B has been under investigation as a long-lasting injectable contraceptive for women. A single intramuscular injection of an aqueous suspension of 5 or 10 mg LNG-B has a duration of 3 months, whereas an injection of 50 mg has a duration of 6 months. The drug was also previously tested successfully as a combined injectable contraceptive with estradiol hexahydrobenzoate, but this formulation was never marketed. LNG-B has been tested successfully in combination with testosterone buciclate as a long-lasting injectable contraceptive for men as well.\n\nLNG-B may have several advantages over depot medroxyprogesterone acetate, including the use of much lower comparative dosages, reduced progestogenic side effects like hypogonadism and amenorrhea, and a more rapid return in fertility following discontinuation. The drug has a well-established safety record owing to the use of levonorgestrel as an oral contraceptive since the 1960s.\n\n"}
{"id": "18247885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18247885", "title": "Lourdes effect", "text": "Lourdes effect\n\nThe term Lourdes effect has been coined by the Belgian philosopher and skeptic Etienne Vermeersch to account for the observation that some supernatural powers seem to have a sort of resistance to manifesting themselves in a completely unambiguous fashion. According to Vermeersch, should the miraculous power of Lourdes actually exist there would be no reason to think that it would be more difficult for the Virgin Mary or God to reattach a severed arm than to cure paralysis or blindness. According to Vermeersch, the visions and photos of, for instance, the Loch Ness Monster and the Yeti lack reliability and clarity due to a similar effect.\n\nVermeersch uses this term to mock what he calls the selective and uncritical approach to miracles, or the frivolous attribution of supernatural gifts to human beings. Skeptics note that the number of fatal accidents that occur on the way to and from Lourdes may well be considerably higher than the 67 alleged miracles due to faith healing recognized in 2005 by the Vatican. \n\n \n"}
{"id": "26127533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26127533", "title": "Marginal abatement cost", "text": "Marginal abatement cost\n\nAbatement cost is the cost of reducing environmental negatives such as pollution. Marginal cost is an economic concept that measures the cost of an additional unit. The marginal abatement cost (MAC), in general, measures the cost of reducing one more unit of pollution.\n\nAlthough marginal abatement costs can be negative, such as when the low carbon option is cheaper than the business-as-usual option, MACs often rise steeply as more pollution is reduced.\n\nMarginal abatement costs are typically used on a marginal abatement cost curve (MACC) or MAC curve, which shows the marginal cost of additional reductions in pollution.\n\nCarbon traders use MAC curves to derive the supply function for modelling carbon price fundamentals. Power companies may employ MAC curves to guide their decisions about long-term capital investment strategies to select among a variety of efficiency and generation options. Economists have used MAC curves to explain the economics of interregional carbon trading. Policy-makers use MAC curves as merit order curves, to analyze how much abatement can be done in an economy at what cost, and where policy should be directed to achieve the emission reductions.\n\nHowever, MAC curves should not be used as abatement supply curves (or merit order curves) to decide which measures to implement in order to achieve a given emission-reduction target. Indeed, the options they list would take decades to implement, and it may be optimal to implement expensive but high-potential measures before introducing cheaper measures.\n\nThe way that MAC curves are usually built has been criticized for lack of transparency and the poor treatment it makes of uncertainty, inter-temporal dynamics, interactions between sectors and ancillary benefits. There is also concern regarding the biased ranking that occurs if some included options have negative costs. \n\nVarious economists, research organizations, and consultancies have produced MAC curves. Bloomberg New Energy Finance and McKinsey & Company have produced economy wide analyses on greenhouse gas emissions reductions for the United States. ICF International produced a California specific curve following AB-32 legislation as have Sweeney and Weyant.\n\nThe Wuppertal Institute for Climate, Environment and Energy produced several marginal abatement cost curves for Germany (also called Cost Potential Curves), depending on the perspective (end-user, utilities, society).\n\nThe US Environmental Protection Agency has done work on a MAC curve for non carbon dioxide emissions such as methane, NO, and HFCs. Enerdata and LEPII-CNRS (France) produce MAC curves with the Prospective Outlook on Long-term Energy Systems (POLES) model for the 6 Kyoto Protocol gases. These curves have been used for various public and private actors either to assess carbon policies or through the use of a carbon market analysis tool.\n\nThe World Bank 2013 low-carbon energy development plan for Nigeria, prepared jointly with the World Bank, ulitizes MAC curves created in Analytica.\n\n"}
{"id": "9486415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9486415", "title": "Max Brödel", "text": "Max Brödel\n\nMax Brödel (June 8, 1870 – October 26, 1941) was a medical illustrator. Born in Leipzig, Germany, he began his artistic career after graduating from the Leipzig Academy of Fine Arts, working for Dr. Carl Ludwig. Under Dr. Carl Ludwig's instruction, he gained a basic knowledge of medicine and became recognized for his detailed medical illustrations. In the late 1890s, he was brought to the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine in Baltimore to illustrate for Harvey Cushing, William Halsted, Howard Kelly, and other notable clinicians. In addition to being an prolific medical illustrator, he developed new artistic techniques such as the carbon dust technique that helped the advancement of the quality and accuracy of medical illustrations for physicians. In 1911, he presided over the creation of the first Department of Art as Applied to Medicine; located at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, it continues to train medical illustrators to this day. His graduates spread out across the world, and have founded a number of other academic programs.\n\nMax Brödel was born on June 8, 1870 in Leipzig, Germany, to Louis Brödel and Henrietta Frenzel Brödel. From the early age of 6, he took piano lessons and by 12, he was playing Beethoven. Not only was he musically inclined, he was also artistically inclined. At age 15, Brödel began to develop his artistic abilities at the Leipzig Academy of Fine Arts. The artistic techniques he learned there reflected the 19th century arts education emphasis on the development of fine, precise drawings. This meticulous attention to detail and accuracy was one of the skills that Brödel was later praised for in his medical illustrations. Over the summers, he put his artistic skills to use with part-time jobs drawing landscapes and figures. Brödel was 18 when he had his first experience with medical illustrations, which he would make his lifelong career.\n\nMax Brödel was introduced to fellow artist, medical illustrator, and future wife, Ruth Huntington, by Dr. Howard Kelly. An artist as well, Ruth also received Franklin P. Malls' invitation and had begun illustrating for Dr. Charles Bardeen as part of the Hopkins Anatomy Department in 1900. The pair realized their similar musical and artistic interests and married shortly afterwards on December 31, 1902. They had four children together: Elizabeth (born October 9, 1903), Ruth (born April 23, 1905), Carl (born June 7, 1908), and Elsa (born February 8, 1911). Ruth suffered from scarlet fever as a child and died on June 1, 1908. Elizabeth later followed her father's foosteps and became a medical illustrator.\n\nHe was known for his jovial, fun-loving personality, he was a close friend of H.L. Mencken and regular at the Saturday Night Club, where he frequented to drink and enjoy himself. In his free time, he enjoyed fishing and playing the piano. Outside of his profession, he also occasionally made drawings from nature.\n\nDespite his minimal scientific background and lack of medical knowledge, Brödel and his artistic potential were well received by esteemed German physician and physiologist, Carl Ludwig. Under Ludwig’s mentorship and guidance at the Anatomical Institute at the Institute of Physiology at the University of Leipzig, Brödel was employed with drawing detailed gross anatomical and histological diagrams. Honing his observational skills with detailed notes of the numerous surgeries and autopsies he observed, Brödel’s work was credited for topographical accuracy, tissue realism, and attention to the cross-sectional anatomy. Another noticeable feature of his illustrations was the aerial perspective that showed the anatomy as seen through a surgeon's eyes. Some of his early illustrations were also for physicians Spalteholz, His and Braune. His network of medical professionals increased when he met Dr. Franklin P. Mall of Johns Hopkins Hospital in 1888.\n\nBrödel's artistic career was briefly suspended when he was drafted to serve two years on November 8, 1890. Through the auspices of Geheimrat Carl Ludwig, Prince George of Saxony, Brödel served his first year with arms, and the second year with artistic pursuits for the regiment. Upon return to Leipzig after his service, Brödel continued his work as a free-lance artist, specializing in anatomical and scientific illustrations. During this time, Brödel accepted Mall's invitation to illustrate at Johns Hopkins Hospital.\n\nBrödel arrived at Johns Hopkins in the winter of January 18, 1894. Highly sought after by anatomist Franklin P. Mall and other physicians for his meticulous attention to detail and realism in his medical illustrations, Brödel's skills were a valuable asset to the Johns Hopkins Hospital. Shortly after his employment, Brödel was joined by fellow medical illustrators, Hermann Becker and August Horn, both of whom had also attended the Leipzig Academy of Fine Arts. Working in conjunction with these two artists, Brödel created an extensive catalog of gross and histological diagrams for the medical staff.\n\nThe majority of Brödel's illustrations were for Dr. Howard A. Kelly (1858-1943), the Chief of Gynecology, during his employment at Johns Hopkins Hospital. Brödel illustrated for Kelly's two-volume textbook, \"Operative Gynecology,\" which was published in 1898. Its release garnered widespread praise and recognition, cemented Kelly's preeminent status in the field of gynecology, and established Brödel's role as a pioneering medical illustrator. Brödel then went on to work on other books authored or co-authored by Kelly, including those on diseases of the kidneys, ureters and bladder, as well as Kelly’s journal articles and monographs. Throughout the illustrative process, Brödel worked closely with Kelly, conferring with each other before the first sketch was drawn. After debriefing, with Kelly, Brödel painstakingly conducted independent medical research and experimented to find the best method to communicate information about complex structures to medical professionals.\n\nBrödel's underlying artistic philosophy is best described in his own words: “The artist must first fully comprehend the subject matter from every standpoint: anatomical, topographical, histological, pathological, medical, and surgical. From this accumulated knowledge grows a mental picture from which again crystallizes the plan for the future drawing. A clear and vivid mental picture must always precede the actual picture on paper.The planning of the picture, therefore, is the all important thing, not the execution.” His emphasis on anatomically accurate visualization prior to artistic actualization was manifested in his incredibly lifelike renderings.\n\nThe seamless translation of medical knowledge into his illustrations is credited with his strong investigative drive. Brödel understood the essential role medical illustrations played in teaching medical students the complexities and functions of anatomical structures, and was therefore keen on educating himself by poring over medical texts, attending lectures, and disseecting cadavers.\n\nOther medical fields he worked extensively in are Otolaryngology and Urology.\nOn March 24, 1899, Max Brödel was diagnosed with a streptococcus infection on his hand and arm, caused by improper practice of handling anatomical dissections without gloves. He required several operations on his left arm, including one to separate nerve fibers from the scar tissue. These operations were performed by Dr. William S. Halsted, Chief of Surgery at Johns Hopkins Hospital. Capitalizing on this experience, Brödel illustrated and detailed his medical condition and the resulting numbness of his nondominant left hand. Despite encouragement by Halsted, these drawings remained unpublished.\n\nIn December 1904, Brödel sustained severe injuries to the middle finger of his right hand. Another Johns Hopkins physician, Dr. John Miller Turpin Finney, was able to help recover normal functioning, allowing Brödel to continue his artistic and musical pursuits.\n\nWith the onset of World War I, Brödel experienced alienation and disillusion living amongst anti-German sentiment in the United States along with his mother’s declining health back in Germany. Henriette Brödel would end up dying November 2, 1915 and Max would become more introverted as the years went on, realizing he had overestimated the amount of importance and growth his medical illustration training program was to receive, expecting it to grow in stature in ways it never did.\n\nMax’s program was to be plagued by low student enrollment during the war years and the persistent troubles of meager compensation in the profession of medical illustration, with two of his pupils turning down offers to work with Brödel’s former colleague Harvey Cushing, now at Harvard Medical School, over the issue of salary.\n\nMax Brödel is credited with the development of the carbon dust technique for medical and scientific illustrations. He had been looking for an acceptable medium able to show the vividness and detail characteristic of living tissue, and made the breakthrough using clay-surfaced lithographic transfer paper. Using a wide variety of media, realistic multi-dimensional representations of complex anatomical structures are able to be constructed. The dust is made by shaving carbon pencils against abrasive surfaces, and then applying this fine dust onto textured, calcium-coated paper with dry brushes. Increasing the depth and dimension of the image, the carbon dust technique was able to add highlights, shadows, and texture to Brödel's work. Due to the limitations of the black and white printing era, the relative ease of reprinting artwork created with carbon dust made this a highly suitable technique for a wide variety of scientific illustrations. Popularized in the 1900s, this method is still used today because of its ability to capture a remarkable amount of fine visual detail.\n\nIn 1910, Brödel received an inviting offer for a position at the Mayo Clinic. Gynecologist and close friend of Brödel, Dr. Thomas S. Cullen, began raising funds for a department where Brödel could remain content at Johns Hopkins and train the next generation of medical illustrators with the necessary skills and background.\n\nHenry Walters, a Baltimore financier, philanthropist and art collector, agreed to fund the creation of this endeavor. In 1911, Brödel became the inaugural director for the Department of Art as Applied to Medicine at Johns Hopkins. His goal was to train medical illustrators to work in conjunction with physicians to increase understanding of how the body works. The program was the first of its kind, and attracted both medical and art students from all around the world.\n\nIn an article published in the September 1911 edition of The Johns Hopkins Hospital Bulletin, Brödel laid out his case for the creation of the department. “Its purpose,” he wrote, “is to bridge over the gap existing between art and medicine, and to train a new generation of artists to illustrate medical journals and books in the future and\n\nto spare them the years of trial and disappointment of their self-taught predecessors.”\n\nBrödel headed the department until 1939.\n\nMax Brödel died on October 26, 1941 of pancreatic cancer in Baltimore, Maryland. Approximately two months before he passed away, Brödel published a paper in \"the Journal of the American Medical Association\" titled \"Medical Illustration.\" This provided a first-hand account and insight into his long illustrative career.\n\n\nBrödel not only leaves behind a massive collection of medical illustrations, his carbon dust technique is still employed today, and the Department of Art as Applied to Medicine is still recognized for their excellence in visual communication in science and medicine. Many former students at the Department of Art as Applied to Medicine would later make up a large percentage of the founding members of the Association of Medical Illustrators, which began in 1945. Several notable artists who were heavily influenced by Brödel include the following.\nInstitutions that have been influenced by Brödel’s work in medical illustrations include the Wilmer, Brady, Mayo and Lahey clinics, the American Museum of Natural History, and Yale, Minnesota, Rochester, Toronto and Tulane Universities.\n\nIn 1938, a portrait of Max Brödel by artist Thomas C. Corner, was presented and displayed in the halls of the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine alongside portraits of medical pioneers, William Osler, Wiliam Stewart Halsted, Howard Atwood Kelly, and William H. Welch. This display of recognition was initiated by the vice president of the W.B. Saunders medical publishing company, Mr. R.W. Greene.\n\nThe majority of Brödel's illustrations and his uncompleted manuscript are housed in the Brödel archives located at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine. Visitors and researchers are allowed to reproduce a selection of his works with special permission. All of Brödel's work for Dr. Kelly and Dr. Thomas S. Cullen are numbered from 1 to 989.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44129881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44129881", "title": "National Irrigation Commission", "text": "National Irrigation Commission\n\nThe National Irrigation Commission Limited (NIC), was established in 1986 and became operational in May 1987. The NIC obtains its authority from the Irrigation Amendment Act (1999). The chief role of the NIC is to provide irrigation services to the agricultural sector. NIC’s mission is ‘to develop potential sources of irrigation water, and to manage these together with existing resources, by the provision of effective and efficient delivery systems up to farm-gate, geared towards the enhancement of Jamaica’s agricultural development’. Under the Irrigation Act, the Commission will furnish and maintain efficient irrigation systems throughout the declared irrigation areas in accordance with reasonable standards of dependability as required in irrigation operations.The NIC is also responsible for keeping the Black River navigable and other selected watercourses clear in order to minimise flooding in that area. The NIC also takes necessary precautions to avoid flooding at all times.\n\nThe NIC is mandated to maintain the water courses under its control at a standard to ensure that its clients obtain their supplies at an acceptable quality. The following are the main requirements for the NIC to adequately maintain its irrigation systems:\n\nKeep watercourses clean and clear or remove from such water courses inclusive of the banks,any vegetation including trees,logs, refuse, soil or any obstacle which may obstruct or impede the natural flow of water and possibly cause flooding of adjacent areas.\nRefuse removed from the canals by the NIC must be placed on land adjacent to the watercourse but not beyond a distance of one chain measured from the top of the banks thereof.\nKeep clean and free from obstruction such drains as may be deemed necessary for the proper drainage of such land.\nTrim trees or shrubbery which may overhang, endanger or interfere with any irrigation works.\nFrom time to time, the NIC may construct, lay and maintain road or open spaces within the irrigation districts.\n\nThe following standards are observed:\n\nProcess duly completed applications within four (4) weeks of receipt at the District Office.\nOffer simultaneous readings (i.e. joint reading) of measuring devices. Customers who do not participate must recognize that the Commission’s readings will prevail.\nMake customers’ bills available within eight (8) days after billing period.\nReconnect customers for the non-payment of bills within seventy- two (72) hours of payment of both the bill and the re-connection fee.\nAddress requests for adjustments to water supply (i.e.turn on/off of supplies) by contracted customers within twenty-four (24) hours.\nMaintain standards of operational efficiency which will help to keep irrigation rate charges to a minimum.\n\nOut of the approximately 90,000 that are considered irrigable in Jamaica, almost 36,000 have some sort of irrigation infrastructure installed, but only some 25,000 ha are currently irrigated. Almost 55% of the irrigated area is in public irrigation systems, administered by the National Irrigation Commission (NIC). Irrigation is mainly supplementary and most of the Island’s agricultural lands are cultivated under rain fed conditions. However, some specific areas with good soils and topographical conditions for intensive agriculture are highly dependent upon irrigation. According to the Land and Water Atlas of Jamaica produced by the National Irrigation Development Master Plan, rainfall regimes make irrigation a necessity for intensive agriculture in the South/Central Region of the Island (mainly covering some parts of the Parishes of St Elizabeth, Manchester, Clarendon, St. Catherine, St. Andrew and an isolated part of St. Thomas). Indeed, it is there, where most of the current irrigation infrastructure of the Island is located and where most of the proposed projects to be developed by the Master Plan were identified.\n\nIn view of the progressive establishment of WUAs, NIC will shift gradually towards planning, monitoring and some regulating functions, during NIDP implementation. These functions will concern technical and organizational issues and the regulatory ones related to tariffs will follow the process described in paragraph 1.15. National Irrigation Development Plan\n\nHead Office\nNational Irrigation Commission Limited,\n191 Old Hope Road, Kingston 6, Jamaica\nTelephone: (876) 977- 6624,977-6727, \nFax: (876) 927-2696\nE-mail: nic@cwjamaica.com\nWeb-site: www.nicjamaica.com\n\nDistrict Offices\nSt.Catherine Irrigation District Rio Cobre Office\n17 Barrett Street,Spanish Town\nTel: (876) 984-2334/4022\nFax: (876) 984-8401\n\nMid-Clarendon Irrigation District Osbourne Store,May Pen\nTelephone: (876) 987-3259/3667\nFax: (876) 987-3139\n\nSt.Elizabeth Irrigation District & Drainage\nDistrict Watchwell P.A St.Elizabeth\nTelephone: (876) 965-0714\nFax: (876) 965-0232\n\nSt.Dorothy Office Bodles,Old Harbour\nTelephone: (876) 983-2712\nFax: (876) 983-2712\n\nYallahs District Yallahs,St.Thomas\nTelephone: (876) 706-3159\n\nBraco Irrigation District Duncans,Trelawny\nTelephone: (876) 954-2147\nFax: (876) 983-2712\n\n\n\nInter-American Development Bank. (n.d.). Jamaica National Irrigation Development Program. Retrieved from http://www.nicjamaica.com/NIDP/NIC%20nidp%20Master%20Plan.pdf\nIrrigation Services. (2007). Retrieved from National Environment and Planning Agency Jamaica website: http://www.nepa.gov.jm/.../Section%205%20-%20Irrigation%20Services.pdf\nJamaica Information Service. (2014). National Irrigation Commission Ltd. (N.I.C.) - Jamaica Information Service. Retrieved from http://jis.gov.jm/agencies/national-irrigation-commission-ltd-n-i-c/\nMinistry of Water and Housing. (2003). Jamaica Water Sector Policy Strategies and Action Plans. Retrieved from http://www.wra.gov.jm/pdf/water_policy_2004.pdf\n"}
{"id": "33883422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33883422", "title": "Nature reserves in the North Norfolk Coast Site of Special Scientific Interest", "text": "Nature reserves in the North Norfolk Coast Site of Special Scientific Interest\n\nThe North Norfolk Coast Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI) is an internationally important protected area in Norfolk, England. The SSSI is a long, narrow strip of coastal land that starts between Old Hunstanton and Holme-next-the-Sea, and runs east for about 43 km (27 mi) to Kelling. The southern boundary runs roughly west to east except where it detours around towns and villages, and never crosses the A149 coast road. It has an area of 7,700 ha (19,027 acres), and is additionally protected through Natura 2000, Special Protection Area (SPA) and Ramsar listings; it is also part of the Norfolk Coast Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty (AONB). Scolt Head Island and the coast from the Holkham National Nature Reserve to Salthouse are a Biosphere Reserve.\n\nThe North Norfolk Coast SSSI contains a variety of habitats including foreshore, shingle, salt marshes, reed bed and pasture, and is important primarily for the breeding populations of nationally and internationally scarce bird species, and also the large numbers of wildfowl it supports in winter. More than three-quarters of the SSSI has been acquired as nature reserves by conservation organisations, whose properties also hold several rare or endangered invertebrates and plants. The mixed pattern of ownership of the ten reserves existing in 2012 reflects the availability of land for purchase or management over the preceding century, and the differing priorities of the various bodies.\n\nThe North Norfolk Coast SSSI was created in 1986 from prexisting SSSIs at Blakeney Point, Holme Dunes, Cley Marshes, Salthouse Marshes (all designated in 1954), Morston Saltmarshes, Brancaster Manor (1968), Stiffkey Saltmarshes (1969), Thornham Marshes (1972) and Titchwell Marsh (1973), together with the national nature reserves (NNRs) at Scolt Head Island and Holkham, and substantial formerly undesignated areas. It has a wide variety of habitats. Bare mud, sand and shingle characterise the intertidal zone along the whole of the coast, although higher areas may have algae or eelgrass that are grazed by ducks and geese in winter. The salt marshes which form on sheltered parts of the coast, in the lee of islands, or behind spits are described in the SSSI notification document as \"among the best in Europe ... flora is exceptionally diverse\". Sand dunes occur at several places along the coast, but the best examples are at Holme Dunes, Holkham, Blakeney Point, and Scolt Head Island. The latter two sites are also important for geomorphology research purposes as structures consisting mainly of shingle ridges. Reed beds are fairly localised, but substantial areas occur at Titchwell Marsh, Brancaster and Cley Marshes. Grassland is represented by livestock grazing pasture reclaimed from former salt marsh, with wetter areas at Cley and Salthouse marshes. Woodland is limited in the SSSI, although a belt of Corsican pine planted at Holkham has provided shelter to allow other trees and shrubs to become established.\n\nThe SSSI is designated as a Special Protection Area for birds because its variety of coastal habitats give it year-round importance for a number of species. The breeding colonies of Sandwich terns and little terns, especially those at Blakeney and Scolt Head Island, are of European importance, and the coast is of national significance for common terns, pied avocets and reed bed specialists like western marsh harriers, Eurasian bitterns and bearded reedlings. The SSSI also holds large numbers of wintering ducks and geese, the endangered water vole, and scarce species like natterjack toad, starlet sea anemone, lesser centaury, sea barley and bee orchid.\n\nBecause of the wildlife importance of the area, much of what is now the SSSI has been protected in nature reserves, starting in 1912 when Charles Rothschild bought Blakeney Point and donated it to the National Trust, which has managed it since. A 2005 survey at six North Norfolk coastal sites (Snettisham, Titchwell, Holkham, Morston Quay, Blakeney and Cley) found that 39 per cent of visitors gave birdwatching as the main purpose of their visit. The 7.7 million day visitors and 5.5 million who made overnight stays in the area in 1999 are estimated to have spent £122 million, and created the equivalent of 2,325 full-time jobs. Titchwell Marsh (Royal Society for the Protection of Birds), Cley Marshes (Norfolk Wildlife Trust) and Holkham National Nature Reserve each attract 100,000 or more visitors annually. The SSSI ownership outside the listed areas is a mixture of private land and areas owned by the National Trust or wildfowling associations which are not actively managed as nature reserves.\n\nThe ten reserves existing in 2012 had a combined area of 6,016 ha (14,863 acres), 78 percent of the SSSI. Although they have no legal protection beyond that of privately owned land, they may have more active management or provide visitor facilities. The mixed ownership reflects land becoming available for purchase or management at various times, and the differing priorities of the conservation bodies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1946161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1946161", "title": "Nicorette", "text": "Nicorette\n\nNicorette is the brand name of a number of products for nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) that contain nicotine. Developed in the late 1970s in Sweden by in the form of a chewing gum, Nicorette was the first nicotine replacement product on the market.\n\nThe product range encompasses chewing gum, lozenges, patches of two kinds (transparent and non-transparent), oral spray (Nicorette QuickMist), inhalator, sublingual tablets (Nicorette Microtab) and nasal spray.\n\nThe products are manufactured by McNeil Consumer Healthcare company, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson. GlaxoSmithKline is the licence holder of Nicorette gum in the United States while Johnson & Johnson markets Nicorette globally.\n\nNicotine replacement products including gum and transdermal patches are on the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines.\n\nThe brand name \"Nicorette\" comes from \"nicotine\" and , \"right way\".\n\nNicorette products are indicated for the relief of withdrawal symptoms associated with nicotine withdrawal and to aid in smoking cessation. It is suggested that Nicorette products should be used in \"conjunction with a behavioural support programme\".\n\nPrior to 2005 nicotine products in Britain were only licensed to \"assist smokers who were making an immediate and complete quit attempt\". Following advice from a working group set up by the Committee on Safety of Medicines (since 2005 the Commission on Human Medicines) the MHRA concluded that NRT products should be used also by those who are unable to stop abruptly.\n\nCurrently Nicorette products in the UK are indicated to:\n\nThe products are intended for adults and children over 12 years of age as well as pregnant and lactating women (it has been concluded that \"the use of NRT in pregnancy does not give undue concern and any harm caused by nicotine replacement must be compared with that caused by continued smoking – which is extremely harmful to both the woman and her child\".) \n\nNicorette, like all other NRT products, are most beneficial for heavy smokers (more than 15 cigarettes per day). There are not enough studies to show that NRT helps those who smoke fewer than 10 cigarettes per day.\n\nThe typical contraindication (reason to not use) for Nicorette products is hypersensitivity to nicotine.\n\nUp until recently cardiovascular disease was considered to be a contraindication to nicotine replacement therapy products. However, in 2003 the French Agency for the Safety of Health Products (AFSSAPS) removed all cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease contraindications. In 2005 the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency followed suit. The rationale is that the benefit of nicotine replacement therapy outweighs the risks of nicotine medication, even in smokers with cardiovascular disease.\n\nIn 2013 the US FDA stated that the contraindication concerning usage of NRT products while smoking is no longer valid.\n\nThe FDA approved labeling for Nicorette products with a warning concerning pregnancy and breastfeeding: \"This medicine is believed to be safer than smoking. However, the risks to your child from this medicine are not fully known\". The FDA suggests not using Nicorette products if the patient continues to smoke, or use chewing tobacco, snuff or other nicotine-containing products.\n\nThe FDA advises consulting a doctor before using the product if the patient previously had:\nSpecific contraindications listed by the FDA for various formats include sodium-restricted diet, stomach ulcer of diabetes (for gums and lozenges), or an allergy to adhesive tape or skin problems (for patches).\n\nThe FDA suggests stopping use of Nicorette products in cases of irregular heartbeat or palpitations, symptoms of nicotine overdose (nausea, vomiting, dizziness, weakness, and rapid heartbeat) or skin redness caused by the patch.\n\nNicorette chewing gum releases nicotine while chewing. Nicotine then is absorbed across the oral mucosa into the systemic circulation. Patients are advised to chew the gum slowly and intermittently to avoid the risk of releasing too much nicotine. It is also suggested not to eat or drink while chewing since foods and beverages can reduce nicotine absorption.\n\nNicorette chewing gum is available in two strengths: 2 mg/piece and 4 mg/piece. Dosing would depend on the degree of nicotine dependence: light smokers should use 2 mg gum, heavy smokers (more than 25 cigarettes a day) should use 4 mg gum.\nPatients should chew gum once they feel the craving. The average adult dosage is 9 to 12 pieces per day. FDA limits maximum daily amount of 2 mg gums to 24 pieces.\n\nIt is suggested to use gum following a 12-week schedule, reducing the amount of gums consumed by the end of the therapy.\n\nThe patches provide slow absorption of nicotine into blood within the day and work for 16 hours. They are usually applied in the morning and removed at bedtime.\n\nThe patch supports smoking cessation within 12 week programme: 25 mg patch (25 mg nicotine over 16 hours) for eight weeks (Step 1), 15 mg patch for two weeks (Step 2), 10 mg patch for the last two weeks (Step 3). Light smokers (less than 10 cigarettes per day) were recommended to start at Step 2 (15 mg) for eight weeks and reduce the dose to 10 mg for the last four weeks.\n\nMicrotab supplies nicotine to the body by mouth. It is different from the chewing gum because instead of chewing the patient should allow the tablet to dissolve slowly under the tongue (the tablet dissolves in about 20-30 minutes). The action is similar to 2 mg nicotine gum.\n\nMicrotabs are used either for smoking cessation or smoking reduction. For smoking cessation the standard dose is one tablet (2 mg) per hour for patients who smoke less than 20 cigarettes per day. When the craving is strong two tablets can be taken instead of one. Most patients require between 8 and 24 tablets per day. British Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency recommends not to exceed 40 tablets per day limit. Treatment should be stopped when daily consumption is around 1-2 tablets per day.\n\nA spray of nicotine is available. Tentative evidence supports that it is better than a placebo. MHRA suggests not to use more than 2 sprays at a time, up to 4 sprays per hour and no more than 64 sprays per 24 hours period.\n\nThe Nicorette brand started with a nicotine chewing gum developed in Helsingborg (Sweden) by the company Leo AB, later part of Pharmacia & Upjohn. It was the first product for nicotine replacement therapy and gained its inventor, Ove Fernö, titles like \"the founding father of modern pharmacotherapy for smoking\".\n\nOn December 12, 1967, Fernö, Vice President of Research and Development at AB Leo, received a mail from his friend Dr. Claes Lundgren at the Department of Aviation Medicine at the Physiological Institute of Lund University, suggesting he develop an orally consumed substitute for tobacco. He and his colleague Stefan Lichtneckert noted how submariners and aviation crews switched from cigarettes to chewing tobacco and snus when smoking was not possible. They also suggested the product name \"Nicorette\". Fernö began experimenting with nicotine gum in 1969 and quit smoking himself after one year of use.\n\nThe first nicotine chewing gum was produced at AB Leo in 1971. The innovation was in the use of ion-exchange resin (polacrilex) in order to control the rate of release of nicotine during chewing. Fernö explained, \"Putting nicotine into chewing gum is not an invention. Fixing the nicotine to an ion exchange resin and putting that in a chewing gum to enable the chewer to control the rate of release—that is an invention\". The same year Håkan Westling, Professor of Clinical Physiology at Lund University, started the first clinical trials of the gum as an aid to smoking cessation at the university hospital. His findings were presented at the Second World Conference on Smoking and Health in London and were published in 1973 in the journal \"Psychopharmacologia\" together with an article by Fernö.\n\nNicotine chewing gum was presented at the Third World Conference on Smoking and Health in New York in 1975 by Fernö in partnership with the British researcher Michael Russell from the Institute of Psychiatry, who pioneered the measurement of blood nicotine levels. Russell and his colleagues at the Addiction Research Unit at the Institute of Psychiatry became involved in further research into nicotine gum through randomised controlled trials funded by the British Medical Research Council and the UK Department of Health and Social Security.\n\nNicorette was registered as a drug in Switzerland in 1978, in Canada in 1979, and in the UK in 1980. It was registered in Sweden in 1981. Initially the Swedish Medical Products Agency declined to approve Nicorette as a medicine because it considered smoking not an addiction, but a lifestyle choice; and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare regarded orally consumed nicotine products not as medicine but as foodstuffs.\n\nOn January 13, 1984 Nicorette chewing gum was approved by the US Food and Drug Administration after a 34-month review. It was brought to the US market by Marion Merrell Dow under licence from AB Leo.\n\nIn 2016 it was the third biggest selling branded over-the-counter medication sold in Great Britain, with sales of £66.0 million.\n\nThe Nicorette Patch was introduced to the market in 1991 and the nasal spray in 1994.\n\nIn 1996 the FDA approved the switch of Nicorette gum and the NicoDerm CQ transdermal nicotine patch to over-the-counter status in the US. \n\nThe Nicorette inhaler was launched in 1996 and Nicorette Microtab (sublingual tablets) in 1999.\n\nIn 2002 the FDA changed the status of Commit lozenges to over the counter in the US.\n\nIn 2004 Nicorette launched Peppermint, the first coated nicotine gum. A shell coating containing a sugar substitute (xylitol) and flavouring masks the nicotine taste. In 2005 Nicorette introduced Fresh Mint chewing gum.\n\nIn December 2008 Nicorette introduced a new semi-transparent nicotine patch under the trade name \"Invisipatch\". As stated by the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, in addition to this more discreet patch to encourage better customer compliance, new Nicorette transdermal patches have been developed to: reduce patch size; add a higher dosage strength of 25 mg of nicotine to the previously available 5, 10 and 15 mg; and increase the proportion of bioavailable nicotine).\n\nIn 2009 Nicorette introduced \"Icy White\" chewing gum with teeth whitening and Nicorette Mentolmint, a chewing gum with softer menthol taste.\n\nAt the end of November 2010 Nicorette introduced QuickMist 1 mg mouthspray, which provides more rapid absorption of nicotine than lozenges or gum.\n\nIn January 2011 Nicorette UK launched the ActiveStop mobile app for iOS featuring target setting, a wish list, distractions, achievement sharing, information and games.\n\nNicorette has been sponsoring yacht racing since 1993 when it partnered with Ludde Ingvall, a Finnish-born Swede who started a non-smoking team in 1991.\n\nIn 1995 the Nicorette team was banned from the Cape to Rio Race, sponsored by the tobacco company Rothmans. The captain of “Nicorette” protested against the decision, saying that “Rothmans is scared of the boat and the healthy lifestyle it seeks to promote”. A spokesperson for the organizing committee of the race later admitted that the yacht was barred because they considered the product to be in competition with the sponsor's product. In the same year the yacht won the Fastnet Race.\n\nIn 1997 the yacht broke the Transatlantic mono-hull record, covering the route from New York City to Lizard Point (Great Britain) in 11 days 13:22.58. Second and third generations of the yacht won the Sydney to Hobart Yacht Race in 2000 and 2004.\n\nDuring the 90s Nicorette (GlaxoSmithKline) has been sponsoring Dennis Vitolo (ex-smoker) in Payton Coyne Racing and The Grand Prix of Miami. In 2005 the brand entered NASCAR race sponsorship with Casey Mears. Since 2006 Nicorette is sponsoring Hendrick Motorsports with Jeff Gordon's car. The brand also runs the Nicorette's Quit Crew program to help racers quit smoking.\n\nIt has been reported that apparently the brand is supporting car races because NASCAR fans are heavy smokers.\n"}
{"id": "34817385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34817385", "title": "Oncofertility", "text": "Oncofertility\n\nOncofertility is a subfield that bridges oncology and reproductive research to explore and expand options for the reproductive future of cancer survivors. The name was coined in 2006 by Teresa K. Woodruff at the Oncofertility Consortium. \n\nCancer treatments, such as chemotherapy, radiation, and surgery, may destroy a person's ability to have children later in life, and oncofertility research focuses on increasing fertility preservation options. With 10% of cancer patients being younger than age 40, this issue affects more than 135,000 people in the United States each year. As cancer survivorship increases, the preservation of fertility in women, men, and children becomes a critically important topic to patients and their families. The ability to easily preserve fertility prior to cancer treatment can provide hope at the time of diagnosis for families later in life. Oncofertility also incorporates reproductive issues after cancer treatment, such as family planning, complex contraception, hormonal management throughout survivorship, surrogacy, and adoption.\n\nEstablished fertility preservation options for men include sperm banking, in which a semen sample is produced, frozen, and stored for future use, and testicular sperm extraction, during which sperm is retrieved directly from the testes through a short surgical procedure and frozen. \n\nExperimental options include testicular tissue banking when testicular tissue is surgically removed and frozen. Scientists are developing methods to use this tissue for fertility preservation in males. \n\nMen who do not preserve their fertility prior to cancer treatment may have children through donor sperm using sperm from a known or anonymous donor to achieve a pregnancy with a female partner using assisted reproductive technologies or Adoption by permanently assuming all rights and responsibilities of a child through a legal process.\n\nOptions for women to have children after cancer have increased significantly in recent years. Women should be counseled on established options such as embryo banking in which hormonal stimulation causes the production of multiple eggs, which are removed, fertilized by sperm, and frozen for future use, and egg banking in which hormonal stimulation causes the production of multiple eggs, which are removed and frozen for storage and future use, and ovarian transposition (surgically moving the ovaries to a different part of the body) and ovarian shielding (physically shielding the ovaries from the area receiving radiation). \n\nExperimental techniques include ovarian tissue banking in which an ovary is surgically removed and frozen to be transplanted back into the woman when she is ready to have children. Scientists are also working on ways to mature undeveloped eggs from this ovarian tissue. \n\nAfter sterilizing cancer treatment, a woman can also choose surrogacy (when a woman carries a pregnancy for another woman or couple) or adoption. \n\nRecent efforts also investigate the implications of a cancer diagnosis during pregnancy.\n\nPrepubescent children have fewer options to preserve fertility than adults. These include testicular sperm extraction for males and ovarian tissue banking for females.\n\nFertility preservation costs may be prohibitive for young patients and multiple organizations now provide methods to reduce costs for patients. These include Fertile Hope and Fertile Action. \n\nThe Supreme Court of the United States addressed the Social Security implications of oncofertility in March 2012 with \"Astrue v. Capato\".\n\nResearch also investigates ethical issues in oncofertility, such as the decision-making process for adolescent children and their families.\n"}
{"id": "22501640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22501640", "title": "Paraneoplastic acrokeratosis", "text": "Paraneoplastic acrokeratosis\n\nParaneoplastic acrokeratosis, Bazex syndrome (also known as acrokeratosis paraneoplastica of Bazex and acrokeratosis neoplastica) is a cutaneous condition characterized by psoriasiform changes of hands, feet, ears, and nose, with involvement of the nails and periungual tissues being characteristic and indistinguishable from psoriatic nails. The condition is associated with carcinomas of the upper aerodigestive tract.\n\nThis condition should not be confused with the other unrelated disease called Bazex syndrome, otherwise referred to as Bazex-Dupre-Christol syndrome.\n\nThis was first reported by the French Dermatologist, Andre Bazex (1911–1988), in 1945. Contrary to some publications, he did not die in 1944, as a victim of the Battle for France, but instead, was alive and well and continued his research on skin diseases up until his retirement in 1980.\n\n"}
{"id": "10147095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10147095", "title": "Pharmaceutical publication planning", "text": "Pharmaceutical publication planning\n\nPharmaceutical publication planning is the activity of planning the dissemination of scientific and clinical data on a drug to healthcare professionals at scientific congresses and medical society meetings and in peer reviewed medical journals.\n\nPharmaceutical publication planning involves developing a detailed plan that outlines the timely presentation of verified scientific and clinical data to appropriate types of healthcare professionals such as physicians, pharmacists, nurses, as a drug undergoes clinical trials and after it is marketed. Because of scientific and therapeutic advances, pharmaceutical publication planning has become a well-established and important function by pharmaceutical companies in order to educate healthcare professionals accordingly about new drugs and marketed drugs with new clinical uses or safety information. \n\nWithin pharmaceutical companies, publication planning is usually overseen by medical or clinical affairs professionals. In this effort, pharmaceutical companies frequently use the assistance of medical communication agencies with publication planning expertise and professional medical writers.\n\nMedical communication agencies include a broad range of organizations, including those that focus largely or exclusively on publication planning. When developing and executing a publication plan on behalf of a pharmaceutical or biotechnology client, medical communication agencies employ professional publication strategists, scientific medical directors, medical writers and project managers. Working as a team, this group of individuals delves deep into their client's scientific discoveries, and propose the most effective and efficient ways to spread the word about new potential therapies to physicians and other healthcare providers. \n\nThere has been some discussion in the media regarding disclosure as it pertains to the use of professional medical writers in this endeavor. Some agencies and professional organizations focused on publication planning have been and continue to develop and refine ethical guidelines and standards for disclosure and transparency.\n\nProfessional organizations for individuals involved in pharmaceutical publication planning include the International Society of Medical Publication Professionals (ISMPP) and The International Publication Planning Association (TIPPA). The purpose of these organizations is to create a forum where individuals involved with pharmaceutical publication planning and biomedical publications can meet and share knowledge and experience. They serve to promote career opportunities and professional development of individuals involved with pharmaceutical publication planning, as well as to promote standards of excellence in ethical professional medical writing and the biomedical publication process in disseminating scientific and clinical data on pharmaceutical products. \n\nIn 2009, ISMPP began a certification program for publication planning professionals.\n\n"}
{"id": "23091152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23091152", "title": "Private Health Insurance Ombudsman", "text": "Private Health Insurance Ombudsman\n\nThe Private Health Insurance Ombudsman is an Australian Government agency but acts independently of the government in investigating complaints involving private health insurance and reporting. The role and functions of the office are contained in Sections 230- 256 of the \"Private Health Insurance Act 2007\".\n\nThe office protects the interests of people who are covered by private health insurance by investigating complaints and assisting in the resolution of complaints. It also publishes independent information about private health insurance and the performance of health funds. According to the Australian Government's website, the ombudsman \"provides private health insurance members with an independent service for health insurance problems and enquiries.\"\n\nThe office has stated that it expects to fulfill this role by handling complaints in a high quality manner; by providing information and advice to consumers; and by providing information, advice, and recommendations to the Government.\n\nOriginally, the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman was established on 4 March 1996 as the Private Health Insurance Complaints Commission (PHICC). The name was changed in 1998.\n\nOn 1 July 2015, the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman merged with the Commonwealth Ombudsman, as part of the smaller government measures in the 2014 federal budget.\n\nSamantha Gavel was appointed Ombudsman on 1 April 2008 for a three-year term. Gavel held the position until she was appointed National Health Practitioner Ombudsman and Privacy Commissioner in January 2015. David McGregor was appointed acting Private Health Insurance Ombudsman until 30 June 2015, when the Private Health Insurance Ombudsman was merged with the Commonwealth Ombudsman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "191738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=191738", "title": "Refusal skills", "text": "Refusal skills\n\nRefusal skills are a set of skills designed to help children avoid participating in high-risk behaviors. Programs designed to discourage crime, drug use, violence, and/or sexual activity frequently include refusal skills in their curricula to help students resist peer pressure while maintaining self-respect. One such program is Drug Abuse Resistance Education. Programs may focus on: offering alternative activities, saying \"no\", being honest, and using humor.\n\n"}
{"id": "41873018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41873018", "title": "Sanctuary of Oropa", "text": "Sanctuary of Oropa\n\nThe Sanctuary of Oropa (), is a group of Roman Catholic buildings and structures in the municipality of Biella, Italy. It is located at a height of 1,159 metres in a small valley of the Alpi Biellesi.\n\nAccording to legend, a black wooden statue of the Virgin Mary carved by Saint Luke was found in Jerusalem by Saint Eusebius of Vercelli and carried to Oropa in the 4th century AD and placed into a small niche in a big boulder. Around that niche housing the statue in the Middle Ages was built first a church, which during the early 17th century was replaced with what is known today as the Ancient Basilica. In the following two centuries several other buildings were added to the complex, including the royal apartments of the House of Savoy, a big library and the Royal Gate, a masterpiece designed by the architect Filippo Juvarra in the 18th century.\n\nThe last building added to the sanctuary was the Upper Basilica, a monumental church built between 1885 and 1960 due the large number of pilgrims visiting Oropa. Its dome is 80 metres high and the church can hold 3000 people.\n\nIn 1617, the construction of the Sacro Monte di Oropa (literally Sacred Mount of Oropa) was built not far from the sanctuary. It is a devotional path now composed of twelve chapels (plus another seven nearby) containing groups of statues representing scenes from the story of the Virgin Mary's life.\n\nNear the Sacro Monte in the 19th century was built a new graveyard, where the noble families of the Biellese territory built their family tombs. Some graves have free masons symbols, such as Quintino Sella's one.\n\nThe statue of the black Madonna has always been venerated and to the Virgin of Oropa are attributed miracles and protections. The town of Biella made a vow during the 17th-century plague and it wasn't infected. Following this grace, the town does a pilgrimage every year to the sanctuary in order to thank the Virgin Mary.\n\nPeople during the centuries made ex-voto (for grace) pictures to thank the Virgin Mary. All of these pictures are still preserved in the sanctuary in the 'ex voto gallery'. The oldest picture dates back to 1522 and was made by painter Bernardino Lanino.\n\nThe popular belief says that the wooden statue has some peculiar characteristics:\n\nAround 800,000 pilgrims and one-hundred pilgrimages visit the sanctuary each year.\n\nThe evocative and ancient pilgrimage from Fontainemore to Oropa takes place every five years.\n\nThe mountain area surrounding the sanctuary is included in a regional park of 1,518.28 ha (code: EUAP0882) named \"Riserva Naturale Speciale del Sacro Monte di Oropa\".\n\nThe Sanctuary has been the end of a stage of the Giro d'Italia six times.\n\n"}
{"id": "11039734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11039734", "title": "Smiles for Diversity", "text": "Smiles for Diversity\n\nThe Diversity Foundation, also known as Smiles for Diversity, is a nonprofit organization started by Dr. Dan Fischer, who was raised in the polygamous community of the Fundamentalist Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints and who is a former member of the FLDS church.\n\nThe Diversity Foundation is a registered 501(c)(3) organization. The Foundation's mission is to strengthen and align global communities. This is accomplished by empowering vulnerable and underprivileged children with access to quality education. Through educational tools Diversity supports and encourages mindful awareness of the value of diversity and a respect of ethnic and cultural heritage.\n\nAfter the attack on a Jewish day-care center in California and the murder of gay University of Wyoming student Matthew Shepard, Dan Fischer set up The Diversity Foundation to encourage dentists to promote respect for human diversity.\n\nThe Diversity Foundations three-fold aim is to:\n\n\nSmiles for Diversity's primary method for encouraging acceptance of diversity is through the distribution of comic books and coloring books. Part of The Diversity Foundation's charitable mission is to provide educational materials without charge to teachers and librarians. The comic book is Scrapyard Detectives, created by Bill Galvan and Chad Denton, and was originally created as \"a way for kids to get the message that being different is great, and diversity should be appreciated and celebrated.\".\n\nThe Diversity Foundation attempts to help the Lost Boys of Polygamy by helping the boys get schooling and even college educations. They try to \"\"We try to find these kids, find them a place to live and help them with school.\" However The Diversity Foundation isn't familiar with all lost boys, because there are many who \"slip through the cracks and do not get help once they leave Hildale or Colorado City. Some of them simply don't know what help is available.\" Fischer also wants to raise awareness about the Lost Boys.\n\n"}
{"id": "18234877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18234877", "title": "Step therapy", "text": "Step therapy\n\nIn managed medical care step therapy is an approach to prescription intended to control the costs and risks posed by prescription drugs. The practice begins medication for a medical condition with the most cost-effective drug therapy and progresses to other more costly or risky therapies only if necessary. Also called step protocol or a fail first requirement, and is a type of prior authorization requirement. \n\nRecent trends in prescription drug prices in the United States has led to an increased pressure on health care providers to keep down the cost of prescription medication while maintaining high levels of availability to the patient. The use of generic drugs when possible allows health care plans to pursue both of these goals effectively. Physicians and managed care providers may disagree on the proper step therapy and patients are encouraged to become knowledgeable in managing their own care. \n\nOpponents of step therapy, such as Fail First Hurts, have detailed the pitfalls of step therapy. \"Fail First is used by health insurers to control costs. It is time-consuming from a physician and patient standpoint, is more expensive from a direct and indirect out-of-pocket cost perspective, denies patients the drugs they need when they need them, and allows payers to practice medicine without a license.\"\n\n\nThe Academy of Managed Care Pharmacy’s Concepts in Managed Care Pharmacy: Prior Authorization\n"}
{"id": "4329257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4329257", "title": "Stock tank", "text": "Stock tank\n\nA stock tank is used to provide drinking water for animals such as cattle or horses. Stock tanks can range in size from 100 L to over 5500 L (30 to 1500 gallons) and typically are made of galvanized steel. These tanks are filled either by a pump, windpump, creek, spring, or even rely on runoff water from rain or melting snow.\n\nThere are thousands of water ponds in Texas rangelands that locals call a \"tank\". When the weather is hot some people use them for swimming.\n\nAnother use of a metal (or plastic) stock tank is at a fair or other event where they are filled with ice to keep canned and bottled beverages, or even perishables such as watermelons cold. Tackle shops are known to store minnows for fishing in them. A cowboy church commonly uses a stock tank for water baptisms.\n\nMetal stock tanks have also been used as a cheap alternative for a hot tub. Various heating methods are possible, including a submersible wood stove such as the one made by Snorkel Stoves. Another innovative heating solution (using a salvaged drip coffee maker) can be seen here\n\nStock tanks can also make perfect indoor habitats for aquatic pets, such as turtles, frogs, etc. For example, red eared sliders are a species of aquatic turtles that require at least 40 L of water per 25 mm of shell length (10 gallons per inch). Considering that these turtles can grow up to in length, stock tanks are the perfect alternative for those who might not be able to afford a 340 - 450 L (90-120 gallon) tank to house their pet(s).\n"}
{"id": "26875658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26875658", "title": "Studies on intercessory prayer", "text": "Studies on intercessory prayer\n\nSome religions claim that praying for somebody who is sick can have positive effects on the health of the person being prayed for.\n\nMeta-studies of the literature in the field have been performed showing evidence only for no effect or a potentially small effect. For instance, a 2006 meta analysis on 14 studies concluded that there is \"no discernible effect\" while a 2007 systemic review of intercessory prayer reported inconclusive results, noting that 7 of 17 studies had \"small, but significant, effect sizes\" but the review noted that the most methodologically rigorous studies failed to produce significant findings.\n\nIn comparison to other fields that have been scientifically studied, carefully monitored studies of prayer are relatively few. The field remains tiny, with about $5 million spent worldwide on such research. If and when more studies of prayer are done, the issue of prayer's efficacy may be further clarified.\n\nThe third party studies discussed here have all been performed using Christian prayers. Some have reported null results, some have reported correlations between prayer and health, and some have reported contradictory results in which beneficiaries of prayer had worsened health outcomes. The parameters used within the study designs have varied, for instance, daily or weekly prayers, whether to provide patient photographs, with full or partial names, measuring levels of belief in prayer, and whether patients underwent surgery.\n\nIn 1872, the Victorian scientist Francis Galton made the first statistical analysis of third-party prayer. He hypothesized, partly as satire, that if prayer were effective, members of the British Royal Family would live longer than average, given that thousands prayed for their well-being every Sunday, and he prayed over randomized plots of land to see whether the plants would grow any faster, and found no correlation in either case.\n\nA 1988 study by Randolph C. Byrd used 393 patients at the San Francisco General Hospital coronary care unit (CCU). Measuring 29 health outcomes using three-level (good, intermediate, or bad) scoring, the prayer group suffered fewer newly diagnosed ailments on only six of them. Byrd concluded that \"Based on these data there seemed to be an effect, and that effect was presumed to be beneficial\", and that \"intercessory prayer to the Judeo-Christian God has a beneficial therapeutic effect in patients admitted to a CCU.\" The reaction from the scientific community concerning this study was mixed. Several reviewers considered Byrd’s study to be well-designed and well-executed, while others remained skeptical. A criticism of Byrd's study, which also applies to most other studies, is the fact that he did not limit prayers by the friends and family of patients, hence it is unclear which prayers, if any, may have been measured.\n\nThe Byrd study had an inconsistent pattern of only six positive outcomes amongst 26 specific problem conditions. A systematic review suggested this indicates possible Type I errors.\n\nA 1999 follow-up by William S. Harris et al. attempted to replicate Byrd's findings under stricter experimental conditions, noting that the original research was not completely blinded and was limited to only \"prayer-receptive\" individuals (57 of the 450 patients invited to participate in the study refused to give consent \"for personal reasons or religious convictions\"). Using a different, continuous weighted scoring system – which admittedly was, like Byrd's scoring, \"an unvalidated measure of CCU outcomes\" – Harris et al. concluded that \"supplementary, remote, blinded, intercessory prayer produced a measurable improvement in the medical outcomes of critically ill patients\", and suggested that \"prayer be an\neffective adjunct to standard medical care.\" However, when they applied Byrd’s scores to their data, they could not document an effect of prayer using his scoring method. Critics have suggested that both Byrd's and Harris's results can be explained by chance. Richard P. Sloan compared the Byrd and Harris studies with the sharpshooter fallacy, \"searching through the data until a significant effect is found, then drawing the bull's-eye.\"\n\nA 1997 study by O'Laoire measured the effects on the agents performing daily prayers and reported benefits not only for the beneficiaries, but also for the agents, and the benefit levels correlated with the belief levels of agents and beneficiaries in some cases. The study measured anxiety and depression. This study used beneficiary names as well as photographs.\n\nIn 1998 Fred Sicher et al. performed a small scale double-blind randomized study of 40 patients with advanced AIDS. The patients were in category C-3 with CD4 cell counts below 200 and each had at least one case of AIDS-defining illness. The patients were randomly assigned to receive distant intercessory healing or none at all. The intercession took place by people in different parts of the United States who never had any contact with the patients. Both patients and physicians were blind to who received or did not receive intercession. Six months later the prayer group had significantly fewer AIDS illnesses, less frequent doctor visits, and fewer days in the hospital. However, CD4 counts and scores on other physiological tests had no significant variation between the two groups of patients.\n\nA 2001 double-blind study at the Mayo Clinic randomized 799 discharged coronary surgery patients into a control group and an intercessory prayer group, which received prayers at least once a week from 5 intercessors per patient. Analyzing \"primary end points\" (death, cardiac arrest, rehospitalization, etc.) after 26 weeks, the researchers concluded \"intercessory prayer had no significant effect on medical outcomes after hospitalization in a coronary care unit.\"\n\nIn 2001 the \"Journal of Reproductive Medicine\" published an experimental study by three Columbia University researchers indicating that prayer for women undergoing \"in vitro\" fertilization-embryo transfer (IVF-ET) resulted in a success rate (50%) of pregnancy double that of women who did not receive prayer. Columbia University issued a news release saying that the study had been carefully designed to eliminate bias. The most vocal skeptic was Bruce Flamm, a clinical professor of gynecology and obstetrics at the University of California at Irvine, who found that the experimental procedures were flawed. One of the study's authors, Cha, responded to criticism of the study in the November 2004 issue of JRM. In December 2001, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services' (DHHS) office for Human Research Protections (OHRP) confirmed a report by the Columbia University Health Sciences Division that one of the study’s authors, Rogerio Lobo, only learned of the study six to twelve months after the study was completed, and that he had only provided editorial assistance. The name of Columbia University and Lobo were retracted from the study.\n\nA 2001 study by Leonard Leibovici used records of 3,393 patients who had developed blood infections at the Rabin Medical Center between 1990 and 1996 to study \"retroactive\" intercessory prayer. To compound the alleged miraculous power of prayer itself, the prayers were performed \"after\" the patients had already left the hospital. All 3,393 patients were those in the hospital between 1990 and 1996, and the prayers were conducted in 2000. Two of the outcomes, length of stay in the hospital and duration of fever, were found to be significantly improved in the intervention group, implying that prayer can even change events \"in the past.\" However, the \"mortality rate was lower in the intervention group, but the difference between the groups was not significant.\" Leibovici concluded that \"Remote, retroactive intercessory prayer was associated with a shorter stay in hospital and a shorter duration of fever in patients with a bloodstream infection.\" Leibovici goes on to note that in the past, people knew the way to prevent diseases (he cites scurvy) without understanding why it worked. In saying so, he suggests that if prayer truly does have a positive effect on patients in hospital, then there may be a naturalist explanation for it that we do not yet understand. After many scientists and scholars criticized this retroactive study, Leibovici stated in 2002 that the \"article has nothing to do with religion. I believe that prayer is a real comfort and help to a believer. I do not believe it should be tested in controlled trials.\" The study has been summarised as being \"intended lightheartedly to illustrate the importance of asking research questions that fit with scientific models.\"\n\nIn 2003, Larry Dossey, the executive editor of the journal \"\" and an advocate of faith healing co-authored a paper responding to Leibovici which discussed possible mechanisms to explain the results reported. Olshansky and Dossey invoked quantum mechanics to explain not only the benefits of intercessory prayer, but also how it might operate retroactively, drawing strong criticisms from physicist Victor Stenger and physician Jeffrey Bishop. The observer effect is regularly used to suggest that conscious control of physical reality is predicted by quantum mechanics, but this misconception \"can be traced to a misinterpretation of wave-particle duality.\" In relation to backwards causality, Stenger noted that \"the results of some quantum experiments may be interpreted as evidence for events in the future affecting events in the past at the quantum level, [but] no theoretical basis exists for applying this notion on the macroscopic scale of human experience.\" He concluded that while \"the atoms in biological systems are quantum in nature ... their collective behaviour does not exhibit any quantum effects. ... What is more, even if the brain were a quantum system, that would not imply that it can break the laws of physics any more than electrons or photons, which are inarguably quanta.\" One further point which illustrates that Dossey and Olshansky do not understand the physics they are using is seen in their invocation of quantum nonlocality in explaining backward causation, stating that \"[r]etroactive prayer may be less absurd than [Leibovici] supposes, in the light of the discovery of non-local phenomena.\" Unfortunately, the two are mutually incompatible: in allowing reverse causality in a model, the phenomenon of nonlocality ceases. Dossey has written in \"Explore\" about coining the term \"nonlocal mind\" in 1987, though quantum nonlocality goes back to a 1935 paper by Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen. Olshansky and Dossey defended their work from various critics in the \"British Medical Journal's rapid response section\n\nOlensky and Dossey are not alone amongst alternative medicine proponents in having missed the point which Leibovici was making. In 2004, Stephen Wright described the Olshansky and Dossey contribution as a \"thoughtful essay,\" and it was praised by an editorial in the \"Journal of Alternative and Complementary Medicine\" the same year. In 2005, Olshansky and Dossey's work was included in a critical review published in \"Explore\" which concluded that \"Religious activity may improve health outcomes.\" Their work was also defended in the \"British Medical Journal\" itself in 2004. Dossey authored an \"Explore\" paper defending experiments on the medical effects of prayer in 2005.\n\nA 2005 MANTRA (Monitoring and Actualisation of Noetic Trainings) II study conducted a three-year clinical trial led by Duke University comparing intercessory prayer and MIT (Music, Imagery, and Touch) therapies for 748 cardiology patients. The study is regarded as the first time rigorous scientific protocols were applied on a large scale to assess the feasibility of intercessory prayer and other healing practices. The study produced null results and the authors concluded, \"Neither masked prayer nor MIT therapy significantly improved clinical outcome after elective catheterization or percutaneous coronary intervention.\" Neither study specified whether photographs were used or whether belief levels were measured in the agents or those performing the prayers.\n\nHarvard professor Herbert Benson performed a \"Study of the Therapeutic Effects of Intercessory Prayer (STEP)\" in 2006. The STEP, commonly called the \"Templeton Foundation prayer study\" or \"Great Prayer Experiment\", used 1,802 coronary artery bypass surgery patients at six hospitals. Using double-blind protocols, patients were randomized into three groups, individual prayer receptiveness was not measured. The members of the experimental and control Groups 1 and 2 were informed they might or might not receive prayers, and only Group 1 received prayers. Group 3, which served as a test for possible psychosomatic effects, was informed they would receive prayers and subsequently did. Unlike some other studies, STEP attempted to standardize the prayer method. Only first names and last initial for patients were provided and no photographs were supplied. The congregations of three Christian churches who prayed for the patients \"were allowed to pray in their own manner, but they were instructed to include the following phrase in their prayers: \"for a successful surgery with a quick, healthy recovery and no complications\". Some participants complained that this mechanical way they were told to pray as part of the experiment was unusual for them. Complications of surgery occurred in 52 percent of those who received prayer (Group 1), 51 percent of those who did not receive it (Group 2), and 59 percent of patients who knew they would receive prayers (Group 3). There were no statistically significant differences in major complications or thirty-day mortality. In \"The God Delusion,\" evolutionary biologist Richard Dawkins wrote, \"It seems more probable that those patients who knew they were being prayed for suffered additional stress in consequence: performance anxiety', as the experimenters put it. Dr Charles Bethea, one of the researchers, said, \"It may have made them uncertain, wondering am I so sick they had to call in their prayer team?'\" Study co-author Jeffery Dusek stated that: \"Each study builds on others, and STEP advanced the design beyond what had been previously done. The findings, however, could well be due to the study limitations.\" Team leader Benson stated that STEP was not the last word on the effects of intercessory prayer and that questions raised by the study will require additional answers.\n\nA meta-analysis of several studies related to distant intercessory healing was published in the \"Annals of Internal Medicine\" in 2000. The authors analyzed 23 trials of 2,774 patients. Five of the trials were for prayer as the distant healing method, 11 were with noncontact touch, and 7 were other forms. Of these trials, 13 showed statistically significant beneficial treatment results, 9 showed no effect, and 1 showed a negative result. The authors concluded that it is difficult to draw conclusions regarding distant healing and suggested further studies.\n\nA 2003 levels of evidence review found \"some\" evidence for the hypothesis that \"Being prayed for improves physical recovery from acute illness\". It concluded that although \"a number of studies\" have tested this hypothesis, \"only three have sufficient rigor for review here\" (Byrd 1988, Harris et al. 1999, and Sicher et al. 1998). In all three, \"the strongest findings were for the variables that were evaluated most subjectively. This raises concerns about the possible inadvertent unmasking of the outcomes assessors. Moreover, the absence of a clearly plausible biological mechanism by which such a treatment could influence hard medical outcome results in the inclination to be skeptical of results.\" This 2003 review was performed before the 2005 MANTRA study and the 2006 STEP project, neither of which were conclusive in establishing the efficacy of prayer.\n\nVarious broader meta-studies of the literature in the field have been performed showing evidence only for no effect or a potentially small effect. For instance, a 2006 meta analysis on 14 studies concluded that \"There is no scientifically discernable effect for intercessory prayer as assessed in controlled studies\". However, a 2007 systemic review of 17 intercessory prayer studies found \"small, but significant, effect sizes for the use of intercessory prayer\" in 7 studies, but \"prayer was unassociated with positive improvement in the condition of client\" in the other 10, concluding that based upon the American Psychology Association's Division 12 (clinical psychology) criteria for evidence-based practice, intercessory prayer \"must be classified as an experimental intervention.\" The review noted that the most methodologically rigorous studies had failed to produce significant findings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "774446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=774446", "title": "Telemedicine", "text": "Telemedicine\n\nTelemedicine is the use of telecommunication and information technology to provide clinical health care from a distance. It has been used to overcome distance barriers and to improve access to medical services that would often not be consistently available in distant rural communities. It is also used to save lives in critical care and emergency situations.\n\nAlthough there were distant precursors to telemedicine, it is essentially a product of 20th century telecommunication and information technologies. These technologies permit communications between patient and medical staff with both convenience and fidelity, as well as the transmission of medical, imaging and health informatics data from one site to another.\n\nEarly forms of telemedicine achieved with telephone and radio have been supplemented with videotelephony, advanced diagnostic methods supported by distributed client/server applications, and additionally with telemedical devices to support in-home care.\n\nThe definition of \"telemedicine\" is somewhat controversial. Some definitions (such as the definition given by the World Health Organization) include all aspects of healthcare including preventive care. The American Telemedicine Association uses the terms telemedicine and telehealth interchangeably, although it acknowledges that telehealth is sometimes used more broadly for remote health not involving active clinical treatments.\n\neHealth is another related term, used particularly in the U.K. and Europe, as an umbrella term that includes telehealth, electronic medical records, and other components of health information technology.\n\nTelemedicine can be beneficial to patients in isolated communities and remote regions, who can receive care from doctors or specialists far away without the patient having to travel to visit them. Recent developments in mobile collaboration technology can allow healthcare professionals in multiple locations to share information and discuss patient issues as if they were in the same place. Remote patient monitoring through mobile technology can reduce the need for outpatient visits and enable remote prescription verification and drug administration oversight, potentially significantly reducing the overall cost of medical care. Telemedicine can also facilitate medical education by allowing workers to observe experts in their fields and share best practices more easily.\n\nTelemedicine also can eliminate the possible transmission of infectious diseases or parasites between patients and medical staff. This is particularly an issue where MRSA is a concern. Additionally, some patients who feel uncomfortable in a doctors office may do better remotely. For example, white coat syndrome may be avoided. Patients who are home-bound and would otherwise require an ambulance to move them to a clinic are also a consideration.\n\nThe downsides of telemedicine include the cost of telecommunication and data management equipment and of technical training for medical personnel who will employ it. Virtual medical treatment also entails potentially decreased human interaction between medical professionals and patients, an increased risk of error when medical services are delivered in the absence of a registered professional, and an increased risk that protected health information may be compromised through electronic storage and transmission. There is also a concern that telemedicine may actually decrease time efficiency due to the difficulties of assessing and treating patients through virtual interactions; for example, it has been estimated that a teledermatology consultation can take up to thirty minutes, whereas fifteen minutes is typical for a traditional consultation. Additionally, potentially poor quality of transmitted records, such as images or patient progress reports, and decreased access to relevant clinical information are quality assurance risks that can compromise the quality and continuity of patient care for the reporting doctor. Other obstacles to the implementation of telemedicine include unclear legal regulation for some telemedical practices and difficulty claiming reimbursement from insurers or government programs in some fields.\n\nAnother disadvantage of telemedicine is the inability to start treatment immediately. For example, a patient suffering from a bacterial infection might be given an antibiotic hypodermic injection in the clinic, and observed for any reaction, before that antibiotic is prescribed in pill form.\n\nIn the early 1900s, people living in remote areas of Australia used two-way radios, powered by a dynamo driven by a set of bicycle pedals, to communicate with the Royal Flying Doctor Service of Australia.\n\nIn 1925 the inventor Hugo Gernsback wrote an article for the magazine Science and Invention which included a prediction of a future where patients could be treated remotely by doctors through a device he called a \"teledactyl\". His descriptions of the device are similar to what would later become possible with new technology. \nIn 1967 one of the first telemedicine clinics was founded by Kenneth Bird at Massachusetts General Hospital. The clinic addressed the fundamental problem of delivering occupational and emergency health services to employees and travellers at Boston's Logan International Airport, located three congested miles from the hospital. Over 1,000 patients are documented as having received remote treatment from doctors at MGH using the clinic's two-way audiovisual microwave circuit. The timing of Bird's clinic more or less coincided with NASA's foray into telemedicine through the use of physiologic monitors for astronauts. \nOther pioneering programs in telemedicine were designed to deliver healthcare services to people in rural settings.\nThe first interactive telemedicine system, operating over standard telephone lines, designed to remotely diagnose and treat patients requiring cardiac resuscitation (defibrillation) was developed and launched by an American company, MedPhone Corporation, in 1989. A year later under the leadership of its President/CEO S Eric Wachtel, MedPhone introduced a mobile cellular version, the MDPhone. Twelve hospitals in the U.S. served as receiving and treatment centers.\n\nTelemedicine can be broken into three main categories: store-and-forward, remote patient monitoring and (real-time) interactive services.\n\nStore-and-forward telemedicine involves acquiring medical data (like medical images, biosignals etc.) and then transmitting this data to a doctor or medical specialist at a convenient time for assessment offline. It does not require the presence of both parties at the same time. Dermatology (cf: teledermatology), radiology, and pathology are common specialties that are conducive to asynchronous telemedicine. A properly structured medical record preferably in electronic form should be a component of this transfer. A key difference between traditional in-person patient meetings and telemedicine encounters is the omission of an actual physical examination and history. The 'store-and-forward' process requires the clinician to rely on a history report and audio/video information in lieu of a physical examination.\n\nRemote monitoring, also known as self-monitoring or testing, enables medical professionals to monitor a patient remotely using various technological devices. This method is primarily used for managing chronic diseases or specific conditions, such as heart disease, diabetes mellitus, or asthma. These services can provide comparable health outcomes to traditional in-person patient encounters, supply greater satisfaction to patients, and may be cost-effective. Examples include home-based nocturnal dialysis and improved joint management.\n\nElectronic consultations are possible through interactive telemedicine services which provide real-time interactions between patient and provider. Videoconferencing has been used in a wide range of clinical disciplines and settings for various purposes including management, diagnosis, counselling and monitoring of patients.\n\nCommon daily emergency telemedicine is performed by SAMU Regulator Physicians in France, Spain, Chile and Brazil. Aircraft and maritime emergencies are also handled by SAMU centres in Paris, Lisbon and Toulouse.\n\nA recent study identified three major barriers to adoption of telemedicine in emergency and critical care units. They include:\nTelenursing refers to the use of telecommunications and information technology in order to provide nursing services in health care whenever a large physical distance exists between patient and nurse, or between any number of nurses. As a field it is part of telehealth, and has many points of contacts with other medical and non-medical applications, such as telediagnosis, teleconsultation, telemonitoring, etc.\n\nTelenursing is achieving significant growth rates in many countries due to several factors: the preoccupation in reducing the costs of health care, an increase in the number of aging and chronically ill population, and the increase in coverage of health care to distant, rural, small or sparsely populated regions. Among its benefits, telenursing may help solve increasing shortages of nurses; to reduce distances and save travel time, and to keep patients out of hospital. A greater degree of job satisfaction has been registered among telenurses.\nIn Australia, during January 2014, Melbourne tech startup Small World Social collaborated with the Australian Breastfeeding Association to create the first hands-free breastfeeding Google Glass application for new mothers. The application, named Google Glass Breastfeeding app trial, allows mothers to nurse their baby while viewing instructions about common breastfeeding issues (latching on, posture etc.) or call a lactation consultant via a secure Google Hangout, who can view the issue through the mother's Google Glass camera. The trial was successfully concluded in Melbourne in April 2014, and 100% of participants were breastfeeding confidently. Small World Social Breasfteeding Support Project.\n\nTelepharmacy is the delivery of pharmaceutical care via telecommunications to patients in locations where they may not have direct contact with a pharmacist. It is an instance of the wider phenomenon of telemedicine, as implemented in the field of pharmacy. Telepharmacy services include drug therapy monitoring, patient counseling, prior authorization and refill authorization for prescription drugs, and monitoring of formulary compliance with the aid of teleconferencing or videoconferencing. Remote dispensing of medications by automated packaging and labeling systems can also be thought of as an instance of telepharmacy. Telepharmacy services can be delivered at retail pharmacy sites or through hospitals, nursing homes, or other medical care facilities.\n\nThe term can also refer to the use of videoconferencing in pharmacy for other purposes, such as providing education, training, and management services to pharmacists and pharmacy staff remotely.\n\nTeleneuropsychology (Cullum et al., 2014) is the use of telehealth/videoconference technology for the remote administration of neuropsychological tests. Neuropsychological tests are used to evaluate the cognitive status of individuals with known or suspected brain disorders and provide a profile of cognitive strengths and weaknesses. Through a series of studies, there is growing support in the literature showing that remote videoconference-based administration of many standard neuropsychological tests results in test findings that are similar to traditional in-person evaluations, thereby establishing the basis for the reliability and validity of teleneuropsychological assessment.\n\nTelerehabilitation (or \"e-rehabilitation\") is the delivery of rehabilitation services over telecommunication networks and the Internet. Most types of services fall into two categories: clinical assessment (the patient's functional abilities in his or her environment), and clinical therapy. Some fields of rehabilitation practice that have explored telerehabilitation are: neuropsychology, speech-language pathology, audiology, occupational therapy, and physical therapy. Telerehabilitation can deliver therapy to people who cannot travel to a clinic because the patient has a disability or because of travel time. Telerehabilitation also allows experts in rehabilitation to engage in a clinical consultation at a distance.\n\nMost telerehabilitation is highly visual. As of 2014, the most commonly used mediums are webcams, videoconferencing, phone lines, videophones and webpages containing rich Internet applications. The visual nature of telerehabilitation technology limits the types of rehabilitation services that can be provided. It is most widely used for neuropsychological rehabilitation; fitting of rehabilitation equipment such as wheelchairs, braces or artificial limbs; and in speech-language pathology. Rich internet applications for neuropsychological rehabilitation (aka cognitive rehabilitation) of cognitive impairment (from many etiologies) were first introduced in 2001. This endeavor has expanded as a teletherapy application for cognitive skills enhancement programs for school children. Tele-audiology (hearing assessments) is a growing application. Currently, telerehabilitation in the practice of occupational therapy and physical therapy is limited, perhaps because these two disciplines are more \"hands on\".\n\nTwo important areas of telerehabilitation research are (1) demonstrating equivalence of assessment and therapy to in-person assessment and therapy, and (2) building new data collection systems to digitize information that a therapist can use in practice. Ground-breaking research in telehaptics (the sense of touch) and virtual reality may broaden the scope of telerehabilitation practice, in the future.\n\nIn the United States, the National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research's (NIDRR) supports research and the development of telerehabilitation. NIDRR's grantees include the \"Rehabilitation Engineering and Research Center\" (RERC) at the University of Pittsburgh, the Rehabilitation Institute of Chicago, the State University of New York at Buffalo, and the National Rehabilitation Hospital in Washington DC. Other federal funders of research are the Veterans Health Administration, the Health Services Research Administration in the US Department of Health and Human Services, and the Department of Defense. Outside the United States, excellent research is conducted in Australia and Europe.\n\nOnly a few health insurers in the United States, and about half of Medicaid programs, reimburse for telerehabilitation services. If the research shows that teleassessments and teletherapy are equivalent to clinical encounters, it is more likely that insurers and Medicare will cover telerehabilitation services.\n\nTelemedicine can be utilized to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the delivery of care in a trauma environment. Examples include:\n\nTelemedicine for trauma triage: using telemedicine, trauma specialists can interact with personnel on the scene of a mass casualty or disaster situation, via the internet using mobile devices, to determine the severity of injuries. They can provide clinical assessments and determine whether those injured must be evacuated for necessary care. Remote trauma specialists can provide the same quality of clinical assessment and plan of care as a trauma specialist located physically with the patient.\n\nTelemedicine for intensive care unit (ICU) rounds: Telemedicine is also being used in some trauma ICUs to reduce the spread of infections. Rounds are usually conducted at hospitals across the country by a team of approximately ten or more people to include attending physicians, fellows, residents and other clinicians. This group usually moves from bed to bed in a unit discussing each patient. This aids in the transition of care for patients from the night shift to the morning shift, but also serves as an educational experience for new residents to the team. A new approach features the team conducting rounds from a conference room using a video-conferencing system. The trauma attending, residents, fellows, nurses, nurse practitioners, and pharmacists are able to watch a live video stream from the patient's bedside. They can see the vital signs on the monitor, view the settings on the respiratory ventilator, and/or view the patient's wounds. Video-conferencing allows the remote viewers two-way communication with clinicians at the bedside.\n\nTelemedicine for trauma education: some trauma centers are delivering trauma education lectures to hospitals and health care providers worldwide using video conferencing technology. Each lecture provides fundamental principles, firsthand knowledge and evidenced-based methods for critical analysis of established clinical practice standards, and comparisons to newer advanced alternatives. The various sites collaborate and share their perspective based on location, available staff, and available resources.\n\nTelemedicine in the trauma operating room: trauma surgeons are able to observe and consult on cases from a remote location using video conferencing. This capability allows the attending to view the residents in real time. The remote surgeon has the capability to control the camera (pan, tilt and zoom) to get the best angle of the procedure while at the same time providing expertise in order to provide the best possible care to the patient.\n\nTelemedicine can facilitate specialty care delivered by primary care physicians according to a controlled study of the treatment of hepatitis C. Various specialties are contributing to telemedicine, in varying degrees.\n\nECGs, or electrocardiographs, can be transmitted using telephone and wireless. Willem Einthoven, the inventor of the ECG, actually did tests with transmission of ECG via telephone lines. This was because the hospital did not allow him to move patients outside the hospital to his laboratory for testing of his new device. In 1906 Einthoven came up with a way to transmit the data from the hospital directly to his lab.\nSee above reference-General health care delivery. Remotely treating ventricular fibrillation Medphone Corporation, 1989\n\nOne of the oldest known telecardiology systems for teletransmissions of ECGs was established in Gwalior, India in 1975 at GR Medical college by Ajai Shanker, S. Makhija, P.K. Mantri using an indigenous technique for the first time in India.\n\nThis system enabled wireless transmission of ECG from the moving ICU van or the patients home to the central station in ICU of the department of Medicine. Transmission using wireless was done using frequency modulation which eliminated noise. Transmission was also done through telephone lines. The ECG output was connected to the telephone input using a modulator which converted ECG into high frequency sound. At the other end a demodulator reconverted the sound into ECG with a good gain accuracy. The ECG was converted to sound waves with a frequency varying from 500 Hz to 2500 Hz with 1500 Hz at baseline.\n\nThis system was also used to monitor patients with pacemakers in remote areas. The central control unit at the ICU was able to correctly interpret arrhythmia. This technique helped medical aid reach in remote areas.\n\nIn addition, electronic stethoscopes can be used as recording devices, which is helpful for purposes of telecardiology. There are many examples of successful telecardiology services worldwide.\n\nIn Pakistan three pilot projects in telemedicine was initiated by the Ministry of IT & Telecom, Government of Pakistan (MoIT) through the Electronic Government Directorate in collaboration with Oratier Technologies (a pioneer company within Pakistan dealing with healthcare and HMIS) and PakDataCom (a bandwidth provider). Three hub stations through were linked via the Pak Sat-I communications satellite, and four districts were linked with another hub. A 312 Kb link was also established with remote sites and 1 Mbit/s bandwidth was provided at each hub. Three hubs were established: the Mayo Hospital (the largest hospital in Asia), JPMC Karachi and Holy Family Rawalpindi. These 12 remote sites were connected and on average of 1,500 patients being treated per month per hub. The project was still running smoothly after two years.\n\nTelepsychiatry, another aspect of telemedicine, also utilizes videoconferencing for patients residing in underserved areas to access psychiatric services. It offers wide range of services to the patients and providers, such as consultation between the psychiatrists, educational clinical programs, diagnosis and assessment, medication therapy management, and routine follow-up meetings. Most telepsychiatry is undertaken in real time (synchronous) although in recent years research at UC Davis has developed and validated the process of asynchronous telepsychiatry. Recent reviews of the literature by Hilty et al. in 2013, and by Yellowlees et al. in 2015 confirmed that telepsychiatry is as effective as in-person psychiatric consultations for diagnostic assessment, is at least as good for the treatment of disorders such as depression and post traumatic stress disorder, and may be better than in-person treatment in some groups of patients, notably children, veterans and individuals with agoraphobia.\n\nAs of 2011, the following are some of the model programs and projects which are deploying telepsychiatry in rural areas in the United States:\n\nThere are a growing number of HIPAA compliant technologies for performing telepsychiatry. There is an independent comparison site of current technologies.\n\nLinks for several sites related to telemedicine, telepsychiatry policy, guidelines, and networking are available at the website for the American Psychiatric Association.\n\nThere has also been a recent trend towards Video CBT sites with the recent endorsement and support of CBT by the National Health Service (NHS) in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn April 2012, a Manchester-based Video CBT pilot project was launched to provide live video therapy sessions for those with depression, anxiety, and stress related conditions called InstantCBT The site supported at launch a variety of video platforms (including Skype, GChat, Yahoo, MSN as well as bespoke) and was aimed at lowering the waiting times for mental health patients. This is a Commercial, For-Profit business.\n\nIn the United States, the American Telemedicine Association and the Center of Telehealth and eHealth are the most respectable places to go for information about telemedicine.\n\nThe Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), is a United States Federal Law that applies to all modes of electronic information exchange such as video-conferencing mental health services. In the United States, Skype, Gchat, Yahoo, and MSN are not permitted to conduct video-conferencing services unless these companies sign a Business Associate Agreement stating that their employees are HIPAA trained. For this reason, most companies provide their own specialized videotelephony services. Violating HIPAA in the United States can result in penalties of hundreds of thousands of dollars.\n\nThe momentum of telemental health and telepsychiatry is growing. In June 2012 the U.S. Veterans Administration announced expansion of the successful telemental health pilot. Their target was for 200,000 cases in 2012.\n\nA growing number of HIPAA compliant technologies are now available. There is an independent comparison site that provides a criteria-based comparison of telemental health technologies.\n\nThe SATHI Telemental Health Support project cited above is another example of successful Telemental health support. - Also see SCARF India.\n\nTeleradiology is the ability to send radiographic images (x-rays, CT, MR, PET/CT, SPECT/CT, MG, US...) from one location to another. For this process to be implemented, three essential components are required, an image sending station, a transmission network, and a receiving-image review station. The most typical implementation are two computers connected via the Internet. The computer at the receiving end will need to have a high-quality display screen that has been tested and cleared for clinical purposes. Sometimes the receiving computer will have a printer so that images can be printed for convenience.\n\nThe teleradiology process begins at the image sending station. The radiographic image and a modem or other connection are required for this first step. The image is scanned and then sent via the network connection to the receiving computer.\n\nToday's high-speed broadband based Internet enables the use of new technologies for teleradiology: the image reviewer can now have access to distant servers in order to view an exam. Therefore, they do not need particular workstations to view the images; a standard personal computer (PC) and digital subscriber line (DSL) connection is enough to reach keosys central server. No particular software is necessary on the PC and the images can be reached from wherever in the world.\n\nTeleradiology is the most popular use for telemedicine and accounts for at least 50% of all telemedicine usage.\n\nTelepathology is the practice of pathology at a distance. It uses telecommunications technology to facilitate the transfer of image-rich pathology data between distant locations for the purposes of diagnosis, education, and research. Performance of telepathology requires that a pathologist selects the video images for analysis and the rendering diagnoses. The use of \"television microscopy\", the forerunner of telepathology, did not require that a pathologist have physical or virtual \"hands-on\" involvement is the selection of microscopic fields-of-view for analysis and diagnosis.\n\nA pathologist, Ronald S. Weinstein, M.D., coined the term \"telepathology\" in 1986. In an editorial in a medical journal, Weinstein outlined the actions that would be needed to create remote pathology diagnostic services. He, and his collaborators, published the first scientific paper on robotic telepathology. Weinstein was also granted the first U.S. patents for robotic telepathology systems and telepathology diagnostic networks. Weinstein is known to many as the \"father of telepathology\". In Norway, Eide and Nordrum implemented the first sustainable clinical telepathology service in 1989. This is still in operation, decades later. A number of clinical telepathology services have benefited many thousands of patients in North America, Europe, and Asia.\n\nTelepathology has been successfully used for many applications including the rendering histopathology tissue diagnoses, at a distance, for education, and for research. Although digital pathology imaging, including virtual microscopy, is the mode of choice for telepathology services in developed countries, analog telepathology imaging is still used for patient services in some developing countries.\n\nTeledermatology allows dermatology consultations over a distance using audio, visual and data communication, and has been found to improve efficiency. Applications comprise health care management such as diagnoses, consultation and treatment as well as (continuing medical) education. The dermatologists Perednia and Brown were the first to coin the term \"teledermatology\" in 1995. In a scientific publication, they described the value of a teledermatologic service in a rural area underserved by dermatologists.\n\nTeledentistry is the use of information technology and telecommunications for dental care, consultation, education, and public awareness in the same manner as telehealth and telemedicine.\n\nTele-audiology is the utilization of telehealth to provide audiological services and may include the full scope of audiological practice. This term was first used by Dr Gregg Givens in 1999 in reference to a system being developed at East Carolina University in North Carolina, USA.\n\nTeleophthalmology is a branch of telemedicine that delivers eye care through digital medical equipment and telecommunications technology. Today, applications of teleophthalmology encompass access to eye specialists for patients in remote areas, ophthalmic disease screening, diagnosis and monitoring; as well as distant learning. Teleophthalmology may help reduce disparities by providing remote, low-cost screening tests such as diabetic retinopathy screening to low-income and uninsured patients. In Mizoram, India, a hilly area with poor roads, between 2011 till 2015, Tele-ophthalmology has provided care to over 10000 patients. These patients were examined by ophthalmic assistants locally but surgery was done on appointment after viewing the patient images online by Eye Surgeons in the hospital 6–12 hours away. Instead of an average 5 trips for say, a cataract procedure, only one was required for surgery alone as even post op care like stitch removal and glasses was done locally. There were huge cost savings in travel etc.\n\nRestrictive licensure laws in the United States require a practitioner to obtain a full license to deliver telemedicine care across state lines. Typically, states with restrictive licensure laws also have several exceptions (varying from state to state) that may release an out-of-state practitioner from the additional burden of obtaining such a license. A number of states require practitioners who seek compensation to frequently deliver interstate care to acquire a full license.\n\nIf a practitioner serves several states, obtaining this license in each state could be an expensive and time-consuming proposition. Even if the practitioner never practices medicine face-to-face with a patient in another state, he/she still must meet a variety of other individual state requirements, including paying substantial licensure fees, passing additional oral and written examinations, and traveling for interviews.\n\nIn 2008, the U.S. passed the Ryan Haight Act which required face-to-face or valid telemedicine consultations prior to receiving a prescription.\n\nIn 2015, Teladoc filed suit against the Texas Medical Board over a rule that required in-person consultations initially; the judge refused to dismiss the case, noting that antitrust laws apply to state medical boards.\n\nIn the United States, the major companies offering primary care for non-acute illnesses include Teladoc, American Well, and PlushCare. Companies such as Grand Rounds offer remote access to specialty care. Additionally, telemedicine companies are collaborating with health insurers and other telemedicine providers to expand marketshare and patient access to telemedicine consultations. For example, In 2015, UnitedHealthcare announced that it would cover a range of video visits from Doctor On Demand, American Well's AmWell, and its own Optum's NowClinic, which is a white-labeled American Well offering. On November 30, 2017, PlushCare launched in some U.S. states, the Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP) therapy for prevention of HIV. In this PrEP initiative, PlushCare does not require an initial check-up and provides consistent online doctor visits, regular local laboratory testing and prescriptions filled at partner pharmacies.\n\nRemote surgery (also known as telesurgery) is the ability for a doctor to perform surgery on a patient even though they are not physically in the same location. It is a form of telepresence. Remote surgery combines elements of robotics, cutting edge communication technology such as high-speed data connections, haptics and elements of management information systems. While the field of robotic surgery is fairly well established, most of these robots are controlled by surgeons at the location of the surgery.\n\nRemote surgery is essentially advanced telecommuting for surgeons, where the physical distance between the surgeon and the patient is immaterial. It promises to allow the expertise of specialized surgeons to be available to patients worldwide, without the need for patients to travel beyond their local hospital.\n\nRemote surgery or telesurgery is performance of surgical procedures where the surgeon is not physically in the same location as the patient, using a robotic teleoperator system controlled by the surgeon. The remote operator may give tactile feedback to the user. Remote surgery combines elements of robotics and high-speed data connections. A critical limiting factor is the speed, latency and reliability of the communication system between the surgeon and the patient, though trans-Atlantic surgeries have been demonstrated.\n\nVideotelephony comprises the technologies for the reception and transmission of audio-video signals by users at different locations, for communication between people in real-time.\n\nAt the dawn of the technology, videotelephony also included \"image phones\" which would exchange still images between units every few seconds over conventional POTS-type telephone lines, essentially the same as slow scan TV systems.\n\nCurrently videotelephony is particularly useful to the deaf and speech-impaired who can use them with sign language and also with a video relay service, and well as to those with mobility issues or those who are located in distant places and are in need of telemedical or tele-educational services.\n\nFor developing countries, telemedicine and eHealth can be the only means of healthcare provision in remote areas. For example, the difficult financial situation in many African states and lack of trained health professionals has meant that the majority of the people in sub-Saharan Africa are badly disadvantaged in medical care, and in remote areas with low population density, direct healthcare provision is often very poor However, provision of telemedicine and eHealth from urban centres or from other countries is hampered by the lack of communications infrastructure, with no landline phone or broadband internet connection, little or no mobile connectivity, and often not even a reliable electricity supply.\n\nThe Satellite African eHEalth vaLidation (SAHEL) demonstration project has shown how satellite broadband technology can be used to establish telemedicine in such areas. SAHEL was started in 2010 in Kenya and Senegal, providing self-contained, solar-powered internet terminals to rural villages for use by community nurses for collaboration with distant health centres for training, diagnosis and advice on local health issues\n\nIn 2014, the government of Luxembourg, along with satellite operator, SES and NGOs, Archemed, Fondation Follereau, Friendship Luxembourg, German Doctors and Médecins Sans Frontières, established SATMED, a multilayer eHealth platform to improve public health in remote areas of emerging and developing countries, using the Emergency.lu disaster relief satellite platform and the Astra 2G TV satellite. SATMED was first deployed in response to a report in 2014 by German Doctors of poor communications in Sierra Leone hampering the fight against Ebola, and SATMED equipment arrived in the Serabu clinic in Sierra Leone in December 2014. In June 2015 SATMED was deployed at Maternité Hospital in Ahozonnoude, Benin to provide remote consultation and monitoring, and is the only effective communication link between Ahozonnoude, the capital and a third hospital in Allada, since land routes are often inaccessible due to flooding during the rainy season.\n"}
{"id": "82502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=82502", "title": "Telesphorus (mythology)", "text": "Telesphorus (mythology)\n\nIn ancient Greek religion, Telesphorus ( \"Telesphoros\") was a son of Asclepius. He frequently accompanied his sister, Hygieia. He was a dwarf whose head was always covered with a cowl hood or cap. \n\nHe symbolized recovery from illness, as his name means \"the accomplisher\" or \"bringer of completion\" in Greek. Representations of him are found mainly in Anatolia and along the Danube.\n\nTelesphorus is assumed to have been a Celtic god in origin, who was taken to Anatolia by the Galatians in the 3rd century BC, where he would have become associated with the Greek god of medicine, Asclepius, perhaps in Pergamon (an Asclepian cult center) and spread again to the West due to the rise of the Roman Empire, in particular during the 2nd century AD, from the reign of Hadrian.\n"}
{"id": "47929605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47929605", "title": "The Cabin Sydney", "text": "The Cabin Sydney\n\nThe Cabin Sydney is an outpatient addiction treatment clinic. The facility has been recognized as the first multinational addiction treatment provider in Australia. The Cabin Sydney is an affiliate of The Cabin Addiction Services Group. The Cabin Addiction Services Group also owns The Cabin Chiang Mai inpatient rehab. The Cabin Sydney opened in July 2015 and is located in Sydney, Australia. In July 2016, The Cabin Sydney completed a study which found that 70% of crystal methamphetamine addicts required rehabilitation rather than jail. The Cabin Addiction Services Group also operates the Cabin Melbourne.\n"}
{"id": "30580658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30580658", "title": "The Control of Noise at Work regulations 2005", "text": "The Control of Noise at Work regulations 2005\n\nThe Control of Noise at Work Regulations 2005 place a duty on employers within Great Britain to reduce the risk to their employees health by controlling the noise they are exposed to whilst at work. The regulations were established under the Health and Safety at Work etc. Act 1974 and implement European Council directive 2003/10/EC. The regulations replaced the 'Noise at work regulations 1989' which previously covered noise in the workplace. The regulations came into force for most industries on 6 April 2006 with the music and entertainment sectors coming into line two years later on 21 April 2008. In Northern Ireland the legislation is dealt with in 'The Control of Noise at Work Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2006.\n\nEveryone in the engineering environment is exposed to noise and could suffer temporary or permanent hearing loss, the control of noise at work regulations require employers to eliminate or reduce noise levels.\n\nThe regulations replaced the Noise at Work regulations 1989 which had been introduced as a response to the 1986 European directive 86/188/EEC. In 2001 the Swedish presidency of the EU put forward a proposal which would seek to replace the existing directive with a new one, 2003/10/EC. This directive replaced the previous and in the UK became the Control of Noise at Work regulations 2005. Differences between the pieces of legislation included a reduction in the threshold for hearing and protection and the introduction of noise control. It introduced the daily exposure limit value as well as a permitted weekly value. It also introduced requirements for health surveillance and hearing testing. 8-\n\nThe regulations introduced a number of exposure limits in relation to noise in the workplace. They defined the average level of noise that an employee could be exposed to during an average day or week as well as what the peak pressure would be within that period. The exposure levels were set in decibels (dB) and given either an 'A' weighting, representing the average exposure or a 'C' rating, representing the peak exposure. The lower exposure level of 80 dB(A) meant that should an employee's average exposure be over that amount then the employer would be required to assess the risk to workers health and provide employees with information and training. The upper exposure level of 85 dB(A) represented the limit at which employers needed to provide hearing protection and hearing zones. The exposure limit value of 87 dB(A) represented the limit at which employees should not be exposed.\n\nThe regulations are one of a number of Health and Safety pieces of legislation that require the 'suitable and sufficient' assessment of risks to employees as a result of work activities. By law the employer has to assess the 'noise problem' at work then a risk assessment would need to be carried out and plan put in place for how to deal with it:\n\n\nIn October 2011 a factory in Burnley which manufactured flooring surfaces for horse riding centers was fined £16,000 after it failed to put practical measures in place to comply with an improvement notice from a specialist Health and Safety Executive (HSE) inspector. The staff at the factory worked several hours a day near a granulator machine, which shredded material into tiny pieces and which was \"as loud as a chainsaw\". Although the court heard that some changes had been made, the daily exposure to employees working in the factory remained high. HSE inspector Matthew Lea said \"The Control of Noise at Work Regulations require employers to put measures in place to ensure that their employees can work safely, without putting their hearing at risk.\" Speaking on the dangers of exposure to noise he said \"Noise-induced hearing loss is a degenerative condition and the ear cannot repair itself. It's therefore important that employers take these dangers seriously as there is no going back once hearing is damaged.\"\n"}
{"id": "32675594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32675594", "title": "The Doctors Company", "text": "The Doctors Company\n\nThe Doctors Company is a medical malpractice insurance company headquartered outside Napa, California, USA.\n\nThe Doctors Company claims to be the largest physician-owned medical malpractice insurer in the U.S, with 79,000 insureds nationwide, $4 billion in assets, $1.9 billion in member surplus, and a financial strength rating of A from A. M. Best and Fitch Ratings in fiscal year 2016. \n\nFounded in 1976, The Doctors Company operates as a member-owned interinsurance exchange, with a number of wholly owned subsidiaries, and is led by a 14-member Board of Governors.\n\nIn 2008, The Doctors Company merged with Los Angeles-based SCPIE Holdings, Inc.\nIn October 2010, the company completed a $386 million purchase of American Physicians Capital, Inc. On October 19, 2011, The Doctors Company acquired FPIC Insurance Group, Inc., and its subsidiaries First Professionals Insurance Company, Inc.; Advocate, MD Insurance of the Southwest, Inc.; Anesthesiologists Professional Assurance Company; and Intermed Insurance Company.\n\nIn 2007, The Doctors Company launched a retirement benefit for members called the Tribute Plan. The plan’s purpose is to reward members for loyalty to the company and for providing outstanding patient care. The company sets aside funds for eligible members, and those members receive a financial award when they meet plan criteria upon retirement from the practice of medicine.\n\n"}
{"id": "9018783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9018783", "title": "The International Network of Cholesterol Skeptics", "text": "The International Network of Cholesterol Skeptics\n\nThe International Network of Cholesterol Skeptics (or THINCS) is a group of scientists, physicians, and other academicians from around the world who dispute the widely accepted lipid hypothesis of atherosclerosis. THINCS was founded in January 2003, and its founder and current spokesman is Uffe Ravnskov.\n\nSince the 1950s, the lipid hypothesis (also known as the \"Diet-Heart Idea\"), which posits that saturated fat and high cholesterol play a role in the causation of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease, has gained general acceptance in the medical and scientific communities. Currently, there is scientific consensus that the lipid hypothesis has been validated.\n\nFor example, in 1984, a National Institutes of Health consensus development conference found that:\nThe success of cholesterol-lowering medication such as statins in preventing heart attacks has been seen as further validation of the lipid hypothesis.\n\nTHINCS members dispute this consensus and assert that the lipid hypothesis is not adequately proven by the evidence. They point to a number of studies which, in their view, either contradict the lipid hypothesis or show it to be inconclusive.\n\nThe THINCS website front page stated in June 2008:\nThe members of THINCS have various differing hypotheses on the actual causes of heart disease, but all agree however in rejecting the lipid hypothesis, which they claim has repeatedly failed to be validated by scientific testing and research.\n\nHarriet Hall in the \"Skeptical Inquirer\" has noted:\n\nThere is the International Network of Cholesterol Skeptics (THINCS), a group that disputes the role of cholesterol in cardiovascular disease. They are led by Uffe Ravnskov, author of \"The Cholesterol Myths\", and Malcolm Kendrick, author of \"The Great Cholesterol Con\". They cherry-pick the scientific literature to find studies that support their theses, ignore the flaws in those studies, and ignore the vast body of literature that contradicts them.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55736161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55736161", "title": "The Office of Health Economics", "text": "The Office of Health Economics\n\nThe Office of Health Economics (OHE) is a research and consultancy company and registered charity based in London.\n\nThe OHE was founded in 1962, making it one of the oldest institutions in the field of health economics. It was established by the Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry to:\n\nIn 2016, the OHE became a charity.\n\nThe OHE conducts work for clients across different sectors, including the UK's Department of Health.\n"}
{"id": "5634651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5634651", "title": "Vapor-compression evaporation", "text": "Vapor-compression evaporation\n\nVapor-compression evaporation is the evaporation method by which a blower, compressor or jet ejector is used to compress, and thus, increase the pressure of the vapor produced. Since the pressure increase of the vapor also generates an increase in the condensation temperature, the same vapor can serve as the heating medium for its \"mother\" liquid or solution being concentrated, from which the vapor was generated to begin with. If no compression was provided, the vapor would be at the same temperature as the boiling liquid/solution, and no heat transfer could take place.\n\nIt is also sometimes called \"vapor compression distillation (VCD)\". If compression is performed by a mechanically driven compressor or blower, this evaporation process is usually referred to as MVR (mechanical vapor recompression). In case of compression performed by high pressure motive steam ejectors, the process is usually called thermocompression or steam compression.\n\nIn this case the energy input to the system lies in the pumping energy of the compressor. The theoretical energy consumption will be equal to\nformula_1, where\nIn SI units, these are respectively measured in kJ, kg and kJ/kg.\n\nThe actual energy input will be greater than the theoretical value and will depend on the efficiency of the system, which is usually between 30% and 60%. For example, suppose the theoretical energy input is 300 kJ and the efficiency is 30%. The actual energy input would be 300 x 100/30 = 1,000 kJ.\n\nIn a large unit, the compression power is between 35 and 45 kW per metric ton of compressed vapors.\n\nThe compressor is necessarily the core of the unit. Compressors used for this application are usually of the centrifugal type, or positive displacement units such as the Roots blowers, similar to the (much smaller) Roots type supercharger. Very large units (evaporation capacity 100 metric tons per hour or more) sometimes use Axial-flow compressors. The compression work will deliver the steam superheated if compared to the theoretical pressure/temperature equilibrium. For this reason, the vast majority of MVR units feature a desuperheater between the compressor and the main heat exchanger. \n\nThe energy input is here given by the energy of a quantity of steam (motive steam), at a pressure higher than those of both the inlet and the outlet vapors.\nThe quantity of compressed vapors is therefore higher than the inlet :\nformula_2<br>\nWhere Q is the steam quantity at ejector delivery, Q at ejector suction and Q is the motive steam quantity. For this reason, a thermocompression evaporator often features a vapor condenser, due to the possible excess of steam necessary for the compression if compared with the steam required to evaporate the solution.\nThe quantity Q of motive steam per unit suction quantity is a function of both the \"motive ratio\" of motive steam pressure vs. suction pressure and the compression ratio of delivery pressure vs. suction pressure. In principle, the higher the compression ratio and the lower the motive ratio the higher will be the specific motive steam consumption, i. e. the less efficient the energy balance.\n\nThe heart of any thermocompression evaporator is clearly the steam ejector, exhaustively described in the relevant page. The size of the other pieces of equipment, such as the main heat exchanger, the vapor head, etc. (see evaporator for details), is governed by the evaporation process.\n\nThese two compression-type evaporators have different fields of application, although they do sometimes overlap.\nAs a conclusion, MVR machines are used in large, energy-efficient units, while thermocompression units tend to limit their use to small units, where energy consumption is not a big issue.\n\nThe efficiency and feasibility of this process depends on the efficiency of the compressing device (e.g., blower, compressor or steam ejector) and the heat transfer coefficient attained in the heat exchanger contacting the condensing vapor and the boiling \"mother\" solution/liquid. Theoretically, if the resulting condensate is subcooled, this process could allow full recovery of the latent heat of vaporization that would otherwise be lost if the vapor, rather than the condensate, was the final product; therefore, this method of evaporation is very energy efficient. The evaporation process may be solely driven by the mechanical work provided by the compressing device.\n\nA vapor-compression evaporator, like most evaporators, can make reasonably clean water from any water source. In a salt crystallizer, for example, a typical analysis of the resulting condensate shows a typical content of residual salt not higher than 50 ppm or, in terms of electrical conductance, not higher than 10 μS/cm. This results in a drinkable water, if the other sanitary requirements are fulfilled. While this cannot compete in the marketplace with reverse osmosis or demineralization, vapor compression chiefly differs from these thanks to its ability to make clean water from saturated or even crystallizing brines with total dissolved solids (TDS) up to 650 g/L. The other two technologies can make clean water from sources no higher in TDS than approximately 35 g/L.\n\nFor economic reasons evaporators are seldom operated on low-TDS water sources. Those applications are filled by reverse osmosis. The already brackish water which enters a typical evaporator is concentrated further. The increased dissolved solids act to increase the boiling point well beyond that of pure water. Seawater with a TDS of approximately 30 g/L exhibits a boiling point elevation of less than 1 K but saturated sodium chloride solution at 360 g/L has a boiling point elevation of about 7 K. This boiling point elevation represents a challenge for vapor-compression evaporation in that it increases the pressure ratio that the steam compressor must attain to effect vaporization. Since boiling point elevation determines the pressure ratio in the compressor, it is the main overall factor in operating costs.\n\nThe technology used today to extract bitumen from the Athabasca oil sands is the water-intensive steam-assisted gravity drainage (SAGD) method. In the late 1990s former nuclear engineer Bill Heins of General Electric Company's RCC Thermal Products conceived an evaporator technology called falling film or mechanical vapor compression evaporation. In 1999 and 2002 Petro-Canada’s MacKay River facility was the first to install 1999 and 2002 GE SAGD zero-liquid discharge (ZLD) systems using a combination of the new evaporative technology and crystallizer system in which all the water was recycled and only solids were discharged off site. This new evaporative technology began to replace older water treatment techniques employed by SAGD facilities which involved the use of warm lime softening to remove silica and magnesium and weak acid cation ion exchange used to remove calcium. The vapor-compression evaporation process replaced the once-through steam generators (OTSG) traditionally used for steam production. OTSG generally ran on natural gas which in 2008 had become increasingly valuable. The water quality of evaporators is four times better which is needed for the drum boilers. The evaporators, when coupled with standard drum boilers, produce steam which is more \"reliable, less costly to operate, and less water-intensive.\" By 2008 about 85 per cent of SAGD facilities in the Alberta oil sands had adopted evaporative technology. \"SAGD, unlike other thermal processes such as cyclic steam stimulation (CSS), requires 100 per cent quality steam.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "14088001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14088001", "title": "War on Cancer", "text": "War on Cancer\n\nThe War on Cancer refers to the effort to find a cure for cancer by increased research to improve the understanding of cancer biology and the development of more effective cancer treatments, such as targeted drug therapies. The aim of such efforts is to eradicate cancer as a major cause of death. The signing of the National Cancer Act of 1971 by United States president Richard Nixon is generally viewed as the beginning of this effort, though it was not described as a \"war\" in the legislation itself.\n\nDespite significant progress in the treatment of certain forms of cancer (such as childhood leukemia), cancer in general remains a major cause of death 40+ years after this war on cancer began, leading to a perceived lack of progress and to new legislation aimed at augmenting the original National Cancer Act of 1971.\nNew research directions, in part based on the results of the Human Genome Project, hold promise for a better understanding of the genetic factors underlying cancer, and the development of new diagnostics, therapies, preventive measures, and early detection ability. However, targeting cancer proteins can be difficult, as a protein can be undruggable.\n\nThe war on cancer began with the National Cancer Act of 1971, a United States federal law.\nThe act was intended \"to amend the Public Health Service Act so as to strengthen the National Cancer Institute in order to more effectively carry out the national effort against cancer\".\nIt was signed into law by President Nixon on December 23, 1971.\n\nHealth activist and philanthropist Mary Lasker was instrumental in persuading the United States Congress to pass the National Cancer Act. She and her husband Albert Lasker were strong supporters of medical research. They established the Lasker Foundation which awarded people for their research. In the year of 1943, Mary Lasker began changing the American Cancer Society to get more funding for research. Five years later she contributed to getting federal funding for the National Cancer Institute and the National Heart Institute. In 1946 the funding was around $2.8 million and had grown to over $1.4 billion by 1972. In addition to all of these accomplishments, Mary became the president of the Lasker Foundation due to the death of her husband in 1952. Lasker's devotion to medical research and experience in the field eventually contributed to the passing of the National Cancer Act.\n\nThe improved funding for cancer research has been quite beneficial over the last 40 years. In 1971, the number of survivors in the U.S. was 3 million and as of 2007 has increased to more than 12 million.\n\nIn 2003, Andrew von Eschenbach, the director of the National Cancer Institute (who served as FDA Commissioner from 2006-2009 and is now a Director at biotechnology company BioTime) issued a challenge \"to eliminate the suffering and death from cancer, and to do so by 2015\".\nThis was supported by the American Association for Cancer Research in 2005\nthough some scientists felt this goal was impossible to reach and undermined von Eschenbach's credibility.\n\nJohn E. Niederhuber, who succeeded Andrew von Eschenbach as NCI director, noted that cancer is a global health crisis, with 12.9 million new cases diagnosed in 2009 worldwide and that by 2030, this number could rise to 27 million including 17 million deaths \"unless we take more pressing action.\"\n\nHarold Varmus, former director of the NIH and current director of the NCI,\nheld a town hall meeting in 2010\nin which he outlined his priorities for improving the cancer research program, including the following: \n\nRecent years have seen an increased perception of a lack of progress in the war on cancer, and renewed motivation to confront the disease.\nOn July 15, 2008, the United States Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions convened a panel discussion titled, \"Cancer: Challenges and Opportunities in the 21st Century\".\nIt included interviews with noted cancer survivors such as Arlen Specter, Elizabeth Edwards and Lance Armstrong, who came out of retirement in 2008, returning to competitive cycling \"to raise awareness of the global cancer burden.\"\n\nThe Livestrong Foundation created the Livestrong Global Cancer Campaign to address the burden of cancer worldwide and encourage nations to make commitments to battle the disease and provide better access to care.\nIn April 2009, the foundation announced that the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan pledged $300 million to fund three important cancer control initiatives – building a cutting-edge cancer treatment and research facility, developing a national cancer control plan and creating an Office of Advocacy and Survivorship.\nThe Livestrong Foundation encourages similar commitments from other nations to combat the disease.\n\nLivestrong Day is an annual event established by the LAF to serve as \"a global day of action to raise awareness about the fight against cancer.\" Individuals from around the world are encouraged to host cancer-oriented events in their local communities and then register their events with the Livestrong website.\n\nThe US Senate on 26 March 2009 issued a new bill (S. 717), the 21st Century Cancer Access to Life-Saving Early detection, Research and Treatment (ALERT) Act\nintended to \"overhaul the 1971 National Cancer Act.\"\nThe bill aims to improve patient access to prevention and early detection by:\n\nDuring their 2008 U.S. presidential campaign then Senators Barack Obama and Joe Biden published a plan to combat cancer that entailed doubling \"federal funding for cancer research within 5 years, focusing on NIH and NCI\" as well as working \"with Congress to increase funding for the \nFood and Drug Administration.\"\nTheir plan would provide additional funding for:\n\nPresident Obama's 2009 economic stimulus package includes $10 billion for the NIH, which funds much of the cancer research in the U.S., and he has pledged to increase federal funding for cancer research by a third for the next two years as part of a drive to find \"a cure for cancer in our time.\"\nIn a message published in the July 2009 issue of Harper's Bazaar, President Obama described his mother's battle with ovarian cancer and, noting the additional funding his administration has slated for cancer research, stated: \"Now is the time to commit ourselves to waging a war against cancer as aggressive as the war cancer wages against us.\"\nOn 30 September 2009, Obama announced that $1 billion of a $5 billion medical research spending plan would be earmarked for research into the genetic causes of cancer and targeted cancer treatments.\n\nCancer-related federal spending of money from the 2009 Recovery Act can be tracked online.\n\nThe International Union Against Cancer (UICC) has organized a World Cancer campaign in 2009 with the theme, \"I love my healthy active childhood,\" to promote healthy habits in children and thereby reduce their lifestyle-based cancer risk as adults.\nThe World Health Organization is also promoting this campaign\nand joins with the UICC in annually promoting World Cancer Day on 4 February.\n\nThough there has been significant progress in the understanding of cancer biology, risk factors, treatments, and prognosis of some types of cancer (such as childhood leukemia) since the inception of the National Cancer Act of 1971, progress in reducing the overall cancer mortality rate has been disappointing. Many types of cancer remain largely incurable (such as pancreatic cancer)\nand the overall death rate from cancer has not decreased appreciably since the 1970s.\nThe death rate for cancer in the U.S., adjusted for population size and age, dropped only 5 percent from 1950 to 2005.\nCancer was expected to surpass cardiovascular disease as the leading cause of death in the world by 2010, according to the World Health Organization's \"World Cancer Report 2008\". As of 2012, WHO reported 8.2 million annual deaths from cancer\nHeart disease (including both Ischaemic and hypertensive) accounted for 8.5 million annual deaths. Stroke accounted for 6.7 million annual deaths.\nThere is evidence for progress in reducing cancer mortality. Age-specific analysis of cancer mortality rates has had progress in reducing cancer mortality in the United States since 1955. An August 2009 study found that age-specific cancer mortality rates have been steadily declining since the early 1950s for individuals born since 1925, with the youngest age groups experiencing the steepest decline in mortality rate at 25.9 percent per decade, and the oldest age groups experiencing a 6.8 percent per decade decline.\nDr. Eric Kort, the lead author of this study, claims that public reports often focus on cancer incidence rates and underappreciate the progress that has been achieved in reduced cancer mortality rates.\n\nThe effectiveness and expansion of available therapies has seen significant improvements since the 1970s. For example, lumpectomy replaced more invasive mastectomy surgery for the treatment of breast cancer.\nTreatment of childhood leukemia and chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) have undergone major advances since the war on cancer began. The drug Gleevec now cures most CML patients, compared to previous therapy with interferon, which extended life for approximately 1 year in only 20-30 percent of patients.\n\nDr. Steven Rosenberg, chief of surgery at the NCI has said that as of the year 2000, 50% of all diagnosed cases of cancer are curable\nthrough a combination of surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy. Cancer surveillance experts have reported a 15.8 percent decrease in the age-standardized death rate from all cancers combined between 1991 and 2006 along with an approximately 1 percent annual decrease in the rate of new diagnoses between 1999 and 2006. A large portion of this decreased mortality for men was attributable to smoking cessation efforts in the United States.\n\nA 2010 report from the American Cancer Society found that death rates for all cancers combined decreased 1.3% per year from 2001 to 2006 in males and 0.5% per year from 1998 to 2006 in females, largely due to decreases in the 3 major cancer sites in men (lung, prostate, and colorectum) and 2 major cancer sites in women (breast and colorectum). Cancer death rates between 1990 and 2006 for all races combined decreased by 21.0% among men and by 12.3% among women. This reduction in the overall cancer death rates translates to the avoidance of approximately 767,000 deaths from cancer over the 16-year period. Despite these reductions, the report noted, cancer still accounts for more deaths than heart disease in persons younger than 85 years.\n\nAn improvement in the number of cancer survivors living in the U.S. was indicated in a 2011 report by the CDC and the NCI, which noted that the number of cancer survivors in 2007 (11.7 million) increased by 19% from 2001 (9.8 million survivors). The number of cancer survivors in 1971 was 3 million. Breast, prostate, and colorectal cancers were the most common types of cancer among survivors, accounting for 51% of diagnoses. As of January 1, 2007, an estimated 64.8% of cancer survivors had lived ≥5 years after their diagnosis of cancer, and 59.5% of survivors were aged ≥65 years. A continued decline in cancer rates in the U.S. among both women and men, across most major racial groups, and in the most common cancer sites (lung, colon and rectum), was indicated in a 2013 report by the National Cancer Institute. However, the same report indicated an increase from 2000 to 2009 in cancers of the liver, pancreas and uterus.\n\nA multitude of factors have been cited as impeding progress in finding a cure for cancer and key areas have been identified and suggested as important to accelerate progress in cancer research.\nSince there are many different forms of cancer with distinct causes, each form requires different treatment approaches. However, this research could still lead to therapies and cures for many forms of cancer. Some of the factors that have posed challenges for the development of preventive measures and anti-cancer drugs and therapies include the following:\n\n\nThe rise of a new class of molecular technologies developed during the Human Genome Project opens up new ways to study cancer and holds the promise for the discovery of new aspects of cancer biology that could eventually lead to novel, more effective diagnostics and therapies for cancer patients. \n\nThese new technologies are capable of screening many biomolecules and genetic variations such as SNPs\nand copy number variations in a single experiment and are employed within functional genomics and personalized medicine studies.\n\nSpeaking on the occasion of the announcement of $1 billion in new funding for genome-based cancer research, Dr. Francis Collins, director of the NIH claimed, \"We are about to see a quantum leap in our understanding of cancer.\" Harold Varmus, after his appointment to be the director of the NCI, said we are in a \"golden era for cancer research,\" poised to profit from advances in our understanding of the cancer genome.\n\nHigh-throughput DNA sequencing has been used to study the whole genome sequence of two different cancer tissues: a small-cell lung cancer metastasis and a malignant melanoma cell line.\nThe sequence information provides a comprehensive catalog of approximately 90% of the somatic mutations in the cancerous tissue, providing a more detailed molecular and genetic understanding of cancer biology than was previously possible, and offering hope for the development of new therapeutic strategies gleaned from these insights.\n\nThe Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), a collaborative effort between the National Cancer Institute and the National Human Genome Research Institute, is an example of a basic research project that is employing some of these new molecular approaches.\nOne TCGA publication notes the following:\n\n\"Here we report the interim integrative analysis of DNA copy number, gene expression and DNA methylation aberrations in 206 glioblastomas...Together, these findings establish the feasibility and power of TCGA, demonstrating that it can rapidly expand knowledge of the molecular basis of cancer.\"\nIn a cancer research funding announcement made by president Obama in September 2009, TCGA project is slated to receive $175 million in funding to collect comprehensive gene sequence data on 20,000 tissue samples from people with more than 20 different types of cancer, in order to help researchers understand the genetic changes underlying cancer. New, targeted therapeutic approaches are expected to arise from the insights resulting from such studies.\n\nThe Cancer Genome Project at the Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute aims to identify sequence variants/mutations critical in the development of human cancers. The Cancer Genome Project combines knowledge of the human genome sequence with high throughput mutation detection techniques.\n\nAdvances in information technology supporting cancer research, such as the NCI's caBIG project, promise to improve data sharing among cancer researchers and accelerate \"the discovery of new approaches for the detection, diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of cancer, ultimately improving patient outcomes.\"\n\nResearchers are considering ways to improve the efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and overall success rate of cancer clinical trials.\n\nIncreased participation in rigorously designed clinical trials would increase the pace of research. Currently, about 3% of people with cancer participate in clinical trials; more than half of them are patients for whom no other options are left, patients who are participating in \"exploratory\" trials designed to burnish the researchers' résumés or promote a drug rather than to produce meaningful information, or in trials that will not enroll enough patients to produce a statistically significant result.\n\nA major challenge in cancer treatment is to find better ways to specifically target tumors with drugs and chemotherapeutic agents in order to provide a more effective, localized dose and to minimize exposure of healthy tissue in other parts of the body to the potentially adverse effects of the treatments. The accessibility of different tissues and organs to anti-tumor drugs contributes to this challenge. For example, the blood–brain barrier blocks many drugs that may otherwise be effective against brain tumors. In November 2009, a new, experimental therapeutic approach for treating glioblastoma was published in which the anti-tumor drug Avastin was delivered to turmor site within the brain through the use of microcatheters, along with mannitol to temporarily open the blood–brain barrier permitting delivery of the chemotherapy into the brain.\n\nAn important aspect to the war on cancer is improving public access to educational and supportive resources, to provide individuals with the latest information about cancer prevention and treatment, as well as access to support communities. Resources have been created by governmental and other organizations to provide support for cancer patients, their families and caregivers, to help them share information and find advice to guide decision making.\n\n"}
