{"id": "47003076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47003076", "title": "Anne-Marie Huby", "text": "Anne-Marie Huby\n\nAnne-Marie Paule Monique Huby (born November 1966) is a Belgian businesswoman, the co-founder, with Zarine Kharas, of Justgiving, a global online giving platform.\n\nHuby started her career as a radio journalist in Belgium, before becoming head of the UK arm of the charity Médecins Sans Frontières.\n\nHuby and Kharas founded Justgiving in 2000.\n"}
{"id": "932862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=932862", "title": "Area codes 213 and 323", "text": "Area codes 213 and 323\n\nArea codes 213 and 323 are California telephone area codes in the North American Numbering Plan. They contain, roughly, the area of central Los Angeles. 213/323 also includes several gateway cities of the region, including Bell and Huntington Park. Before being reunited in an overlay in 2017, they had been separate area codes since 1998, with 213 containing downtown Los Angeles and its immediately adjoining neighborhoods, with 323 containing the rest of the area.\n\nArea code 213 was one of the three original area codes assigned to California in 1947. It initially covered the southern third of the state from the Central Coast to the Mexican border. The numbering plan area was extended to the north in 1950, requiring the southern portion of the Central Valley, including Bakersfield, to change over from area code 415.\n\nAs a result of southern California's rapid expansion during the second half of the 20th century, 213 has been split on numerous occasions. The first area split became necessary in 1951, when most of the southern and eastern portion, including Orange County and San Diego, was assigned area code 714. In 1957, 213 was restricted to Los Angeles County, with most of the old 213's northern and western portion becoming area code 805. In 1984, the San Fernando Valley and the San Gabriel Valley became area code 818, thus making Los Angeles one of the first major cities in the US to be split between two area codes (New York City was split between 212 and 718 the same year). In 1991, West Los Angeles and the South Bay became area code 310. \n\nThe 323 area code was created in 1998 as yet another split of 213. When 213 was divided, it kept Los Angeles exchanges 1, 7 and 10, while exchanges 2 through 6, 8, 9, and 11 through 14 went to 323. This split made 213 one of the smallest area codes in the nation, covering only Downtown Los Angeles and its immediately adjoining neighborhoods, such as Chinatown. Completely surrounding 213, 323 covered most of the remainder of central Los Angeles, including Hollywood, as well as several neighboring cities, including Bell, Huntington Park and Montebello.\n\nDespite Southern California's continued rapid growth and the proliferation of cell phones and pagers, 213 was not projected to exhaust until 2050. In contrast, 323 was projected to exhaust in 2017. Since 213 still had an abundance of numbers available, and rather than add yet another area code to California's 30+ area codes already in service, the California Public Utilities Commission approved a plan that \"erased\" the 213-323 boundary, converting them into overlay area codes for all of central Los Angeles. Since this change went into full effect on July 8, 2017, telephone companies have been able to assign any available 213 numbers in the former 323 area and vice versa, and customers with 213 or 323 phone numbers have been required to dial the area code even to call other 213 or 323 numbers (10/11-digit dialing), even for a number next door. This change returned 213 to some areas that had used it for more than half a century prior to 1998.\n\nAn American hip-hop supergroup from Long Beach, California consisting of Snoop Dogg, Warren G, and Nate Dogg was called 213, based on the area code.\n\nArea code 213 is referenced in Warren G and Nate Dogg's song \"Regulate\", Dr. Dre's \"Still D.R.E.\", the Electric Six song \"I'm the Bomb\", LL Cool J's song \"Going Back to Cali\", Whitney Houston's song \"It's Not Right but It's Okay\", and Eminem's \"Shake That\". It is also referenced in \"Area Codes\" by Ludacris featuring Nate Dogg.\n\nThe Los Angeles Clippers mascot, Chuck the Condor, has the jersey number 213.\n\nCities in the 213 and 323 area codes:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16336916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16336916", "title": "Automotive Executive of the Year Award", "text": "Automotive Executive of the Year Award\n\nThe DNV GL - Automotive Executive of the Year Award recognizes excellence in leadership and innovation within the automotive industry. Since being launched in 1964, the award has been given to top auto executives, including: Alan Mulally (2011), Elon Musk (2010), James O'Sullivan (2009), Carroll Shelby (2008), Jim Press (2007), Bill Ford (2006), Dieter Zetsche (2003), Rick Wagoner (2001), Jac Nasser (1999), Robert Eaton (1997), Thomas Stallkamp (1996), Roger Smith (1984), Lee Iacocca (1983), Bob Lund (1980), Henry Ford II (1973) and John DeLorean (1972).\n\nEach honoree is nominated by an Advisory Committee of automotive journalists, representatives from the supplier community and industry analysts. Automotive Executive of the Year nomination criteria include entrepreneurial and creative thinking, exemplary leadership and professional integrity. Nominations are not directly linked to company performance or individual popularity. In some cases, the Advisory Committee may elect to give a Lifetime Achievement Award, honoring cumulative innovation and leadership.\n\nThe Automotive Executive of the Year Award is presented to an annual honoree during an invitation-only luncheon held at the Detroit Athletic Club in downtown Detroit, Mich. The historic DAC has served as the event venue since 1964.\n\nEach honoree is presented with the DNV Navigator Award, an authentic working brass nautical compass (approximately 10 x 10 inches) enclosed in a teak wood box. The compass symbolizes the significance of navigation throughout the challenges of industry leadership. In addition, honorees are presented with an original watercolor portrait created by Michigan artist, Werner Claussen.\n\nThe award has been owned by DNV GL since its purchase in 2006. DNV GL - Business Assurance is a global services provider for management system certification to TS 16949, ISO 9001 and ISO 14001, and other national and international standards. Other services include training, hospital accreditation, food safety certification, product certification and climate change services.\n\nClick here for a complete list of winners Automotive of the Year Award Past Winners\n\nThe \"Detroit Free Press\", February 17, 2008, 2E\n\n"}
{"id": "22254751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22254751", "title": "Business Intelligence Competency Center", "text": "Business Intelligence Competency Center\n\nA Business Intelligence Competency Center (BICC) is a cross-functional organizational team that has defined tasks, roles, responsibilities and processes for supporting and promoting the effective use of Business Intelligence (BI) across an organization.\n\nGartner started advocating that companies need a BICC to develop and focus resources to be successful using business intelligence in 2001. Since then, the BICC concept has been further refined through practical implementations in organizations that have implemented BI and analytical software.\n\nIn practice, the term \"BICC\" is not well integrated into the nomenclature of business or public sector organizations and there are a large degree of variances in the organizational design for BICCs. Nevertheless, the popularity of the BICC concept has caused the creation of units that focus on ensuring the use of the information for decision-making from BI software and increasing the return on investment (ROI) of BI.\n\nA BICC coordinates the activities and resources to ensure that a fact-based approach to decision making is systematically implemented throughout an organization. It has responsibility for the governance structure for BI and analytical programs, projects, practices, software, and architecture. It is responsible for building the plans, priorities, infrastructure, and competencies that the organization needs to take forward-looking strategic decisions by using the BI and analytical software capabilities.\n\nA BICC’s influence transcends that of a typical business unit, playing a crucial central role in the organizational change and strategic process. Accordingly, the BICC’s purpose is to empower the entire organization to coordinate BI from all units. Through centralization, it \"…ensures that information and best practices are communicated and shared through the entire organization so that everyone can benefit from successes and lessons learned.\"\n\nThe BICC also plays an important organizational role facilitating interaction among the various cultures and units within the organization. Knowledge transfer, enhancement of analytic skills, coaching and training are central to the mandate of the BICC. A BICC should be pivotal in ensuring a high degree of information consumption and a ROI for BI.\n\nBusiness Intelligence Competency Centers in U.S. Healthcare\n\nNext to the U.S. government, the American healthcare industry generates the second largest amount of information every year. However, despite having complex information management needs, a KLAS report revealed that one-third of healthcare organizations do not have the appropriate business intelligence tools.\n\nSince finance and energy industries have successfully implemented business intelligence competency centers (BICCs) and have produced financial returns on their investment and accelerated decision-making speed, the healthcare industry is initiating use of BICCs. Creating a business intelligence competency center in healthcare involves prioritizing information needs, creating data governance structures, identifying data stewards to provide data quality assurance, establishing ongoing education programs, and defining predictive modeling, analytics, data warehouse, and cloud storage tools.\n\nSkills Needed\n\nInformation technology specialists in SQL design, relational databases, programming, reporting software, and analytics can provide the necessary technical information management skills. Data stewards, such as data analysts and scientists, understand the creation, capture, storage, and access processes needed to ensure high quality data.\n\nIn recent years knowledge-oriented shared service centres with primary focus on offering analytics and data mining as an internal service across the organization have emerged. These centres are often referred to as Analytics Competency Center (ACC), Analytics Center of Excellence, Analytics Service Center, Big Data CoC or Big Data Lab. It is predicated, that by the end of 2017 already a quarter of all large firms will have such a dedicated unit for data and analytics . In contrast to classic BICC these centres do not place emphasis on reporting, historical analysis and dashboards. While BICC usually create enterprise-wide data marts and warehouses to establish a foundation for trusted information, an ACC follows a more strategic objective. ACCs follow the strategic objective to transform the company towards a data driven company, build analytics expertise, formulate a data strategy, identify use cases for data mining, establish a manage a platform and drive the general adoption of analytics across the Organization. Usually, historically grown BICCs are transformed into an ACC, but also new formations of ACC can be found in practise.\n\n"}
{"id": "20998686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20998686", "title": "CBS Studio Building", "text": "CBS Studio Building\n\nThe CBS Studio Building is a seven-story office building at 49 East 52nd Street in Midtown Manhattan, New York City. It has had various uses at different times, including serving as a Vanderbilt family guest house, the first graduate school of the Juilliard School, CBS Radio studios, and Columbia Records studio.\n\nIt is currently owned by the Fisher Brothers, who converted it to an office building in conjunction with construction of the 45-story Park Avenue Plaza to its east.\n\nIt was built in 1908 as a guest house for the Vanderbilts who had a home a block away at Fifth Avenue (Manhattan) and 52nd. It was designed by Warren & Wetmore.\n\nIn 1924 the Vanderbilts sold it to the Juilliard Musical Foundation where it became Juilliard's first graduate school.\n\nIn 1939, CBS, which had its corporate headquarters around the corner at 485 Madison Avenue, bought the building at 49 East 52nd Street, to move its radio operations, except for the main network newsroom.\n\nArchitects Fellheimer & Wagner extensively renovated the building—including eliminating the earlier Vanderbilt ornate external features and eliminating windows for soundproofing—and carved up the building into seven studios, including one which could accommodate audiences of 300 as well as symphony orchestras that could broadcast. Arthur Godfrey broadcast from Studio 21 in the building and had his main office there. From 1974 until 1982, \"CBS Radio Mystery Theatre\" originated in Studio 27, renamed Studio G in honor of Arthur Godfrey.\n\nWith the advent of television, large radio studios that could accommodate audiences were no longer needed. The facility became recording studios for Columbia Records. Frank Sinatra, Barbra Streisand, Leonard Cohen, Laura Nyro, Bob Dylan (in spring 1970 for part of his New Morning album), Paul Simon and Paul McCartney recorded music there.\n\nThe facility contained Columbia's \"Studio B\" on the second floor and \"Studio E\" on the sixth floor.\n\nIn 1965 CBS sold its 485 Madison Avenue headquarters building as well as the 49 East 52nd Street studios and moved to a new office tower two blocks west at 51 West 52nd Street in the\nCBS Headquarters Building. Radio operations moved to the CBS Broadcast Center at 524 West 57th Street.\n\nIn 1979 the Fisher Brothers acquired the building in conjunction with construction of the Park Avenue Plaza building to its east. In 1988 the building was leased to Sony. A Duane Reade store opened on the ground level and second floor. For several years CBS used studio space as offices. In 1995 Fisher undid the 1930s Art Moderne style, replacing the windows and restoring the building to its original Vanderbilt appearance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10115122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10115122", "title": "Community of practice", "text": "Community of practice\n\nA community of practice (CoP) is a group of people who share a craft or a profession. The concept was first proposed by cognitive anthropologist Jean Lave and educational theorist Etienne Wenger in their 1991 book \"Situated Learning\" . Wenger then significantly expanded on the concept in his 1998 book \"Communities of Practice\" .\n\nA CoP can evolve naturally because of the members' common interest in a particular domain or area, or it can be created deliberately with the goal of gaining knowledge related to a specific field. It is through the process of sharing information and experiences with the group that members learn from each other, and have an opportunity to develop personally and professionally .\n\nCoPs can exist in physical settings, for example, a lunch room at work, a field setting, a factory floor, or elsewhere in the environment, but members of CoPs do not have to be co-located. They form a \"virtual community of practice\" (VCoP) when they collaborate online, such as within discussion boards and newsgroups, or a \"mobile community of practice\" (MCoP) when members communicate with one another via mobile phones and participate in community work on the go.\n\nCommunities of practice are not new phenomena: this type of learning has existed for as long as people have been learning and sharing their experiences through storytelling. The idea is rooted in American pragmatism, especially C. S. Peirce's concept of the \"community of inquiry\" , but also John Dewey's principle of learning through occupation .\n\nSince the publication of \"Situated Learning: Legitimate Peripheral Participation\" , communities of practice have been the focus of attention, first as a theory of learning and later as part of the field of knowledge management. See for a review of how the concept has changed over the years. offers a more critical view of the different ways in which the term communities of practice can be interpreted.\n\nTo understand how learning occurs outside the classroom while at the Institute for Research on Learning, Lave and Wenger studied how newcomers or novices to informal groups become established members of those groups . Lave and Wenger first used the term communities of practice to describe learning through practice and participation, which they named situated learning.\n\nThe structure of the community was created over time through a process of legitimate peripheral participation. Legitimation and participation together define the characteristic ways of belonging to a community whereas peripherality and participation are concerned with location and identity in the social world .\n\nLave and Wenger's research looked at how apprenticeships help people learn. They found that when newcomers join an established group or community, they spend some time initially observing and perhaps performing simple tasks in basic roles as they learn how the group works and how they can participate (an apprentice electrician, for example would watch and learn before actually doing any electrical work; initially taking on small simple jobs and eventually more complicated ones). Lave and Wenger described this socialization process as legitimate peripheral participation. The term \"community of practice\" is that group that Lave and Wenger referred to, who share a common interest and a desire to learn from and contribute to the community with their variety of experiences .\n\nIn his later work, abandoned the concept of legitimate peripheral participation and used the idea of an inherent tension in a duality instead. He identifies four dualities that exist in communities of practice, participation-reification, designed-emergent, identification-negotiability and local-global, although the participation-reification duality has been the focus of particular interest because of its links to knowledge management.\n\nHe describes the structure of a CoP as consisting of three interrelated terms: 'mutual engagement', 'joint enterprise' and 'shared repertoire' .\n\n\nFor Etienne Wenger, learning is central to human identity. A primary focus of Wenger’s more recent work is on learning as social participation – the individual as an active participant in the practices of social communities, and in the construction of his/her identity through these communities . In this context, a community of practice is a group of individuals participating in communal activity, and experiencing/continuously creating their shared identity through engaging in and contributing to the practices of their communities.\n\nThe structural characteristics of a community of practice are again redefined to a domain of knowledge, a notion of community and a practice.\n\n\n\n\nIn many organizations, communities of practice have become an integral part of the organization structure . These communities take on knowledge stewarding tasks that were formerly covered by more formal organizational structures. In some organizations there are both formal and informal communities of practice. There is a great deal of interest within organizations to encourage, support, and sponsor communities of practice in order to benefit from shared knowledge that may lead to higher productivity . Communities of practice are now viewed by many in the business setting as a means to capturing the tacit knowledge, or the know-how that is not so easily articulated.\n\nAn important aspect and function of communities of practice is increasing organization performance. identify four areas of organizational performance that can be affected by communities of practice: \n\nThe communities Lave and Wenger studied were naturally forming as practitioners of craft and skill-based activities met to share experiences and insights .\n\nLave and Wenger observed situated learning within a community of practice among Yucatán midwives, Liberian tailors, navy quartermasters and meat cutters as well as insurance claims processors. . Other fields have made use of the concept of CoPs. Examples include education , sociolinguistics, material anthropology, medical education, second language acquisition , Parliamentary Budget Offices , health care and business sectors, and child mental health practice (AMBIT).\n\nA famous example of a community of practice within an organization is that which developed around the Xerox customer service representatives who repaired the machines in the field . The Xerox reps began exchanging tips and tricks over informal meetings over breakfast or lunch and eventually Xerox saw the value of these interactions and created the Eureka project to allow these interactions to be shared across the global network of representatives. The Eureka database has been estimated to have saved the corporation $100 million.\n\nCollaboration constellations differ in various ways. Some are under organizational control (e.g., teams, see below) others, like CoPs, are self-organized or under the control of individuals. For examples of how these and other collaboration types vary in terms of their temporal or boundary focus and the basis of their members' relationships, see .\n\nA project team differs from a community of practice in several significant ways . \n\nBy contrast,\n\nIn addition to the distinction between CoP and other types of organizational groupings found in the workplace, in some cases it is useful to differentiate CoP from community of interest (CoI).\n\nCommunity of interest\n\nCommunity of practice\n\nSocial capital is said to be a multi-dimensional concept, with both public and private facets (Bourdieu 1991). That is, social capital may provide value to both the individual and the group as a whole. Through informal connections that participants build in their community of practice, and in the process of sharing their expertise, learning from others, and participating in the group, members are said to be acquiring social capital – especially those members who demonstrate expertise and experience.\n\n describe three kinds of knowledge: \"knowledge as object\", \"knowledge embedded within individuals\", and \"knowledge embedded in a community\". Communities of Practice have become associated with finding, sharing, transferring, and archiving knowledge, as well as making explicit \"expertise\", or tacit knowledge. Tacit knowledge is considered to be those valuable context-based experiences that cannot easily be captured, codified and stored , also .\n\nBecause knowledge management is seen \"primarily as a problem of capturing, organizing, and retrieving information, evoking notions of databases, documents, query languages, and data mining\" , the community of practice, collectively and individually, is considered a rich potential source of helpful information in the form of actual experiences; in other words, best practices.\n\nThus, for knowledge management, a community of practice is one source of content and context that if codified, documented and archived can be accessed for later use.\n\nMembers of communities of practice are thought to be more efficient and effective conduits of information and experiences. While organizations tend to provide manuals to meet the training needs of their employees, CoPs help foster the process of storytelling among colleagues which, in turn, helps them strengthen their skills on the job .\n\nStudies have shown that workers spend a third of their time looking for information and are five times more likely to turn to a co-worker rather than an explicit source of information (book, manual, or database) . Time is saved by conferring with members of a CoP. Members of the community have tacit knowledge, which can be difficult to store and retrieve outside. For example, one person can share the best way to handle a situation based on his experiences, which may enable the other person to avoid mistakes and shorten the learning curve. In a CoP, members can openly discuss and brainstorm about a project, which can lead to new capabilities. The type of information that is shared and learned in a CoP is boundless . clarifies the difference between tacit knowledge, or knowing \"how\", and explicit knowledge, or knowing \"what\". Performing optimally in a job requires being able to convert theory into practice. Communities of practice help the individual bridge the gap between knowing \"what\" and knowing \"how\" .\n\nAs members of communities of practice, individuals report increased communication with people (professionals, interested parties, hobbyists), less dependence on geographic proximity, and the generation of new knowledge .\n\nCommunicating with others in a community of practice involves creating \"social presence\". defines social presence as \"the degree of salience of another person in an interaction and the consequent salience of an interpersonal relationship\" (p. 38). It is believed that social presence affects how likely an individual is of participating in a CoP (especially in online environments) . Management of a community of practice often faces many barriers that inhibit individuals from engaging in knowledge exchange. Some of the reasons for these barriers are egos and personal attacks, large overwhelming CoPs, and time constraints .\n\nMotivation to share knowledge is critical to success in communities of practice. Studies show that members are motivated to become active participants in a CoP when they view knowledge as meant for the public good, a moral obligation and/or as a community interest . Members of a community of practice can also be motivated to participate by using methods such as tangible returns (promotion, raises or bonuses), intangible returns (reputation, self-esteem) and community interest (exchange of practice related knowledge, interaction).\n\nCollaboration is essential to ensuring that communities of practice thrive. Research has found that certain factors can indicate a higher level of collaboration in knowledge exchange in a business network . Sveiby and Simons found that more seasoned colleagues tend to foster a more collaborative culture. Additionally they noted that a higher educational level also predicts a tendency to favor collaboration.\n\nWhat makes a community of practice succeed depends on the purpose and objective of the community as well as the interests and resources of the members of that community. Wenger identified seven actions that could be taken in order to cultivate communities of practice:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "912407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=912407", "title": "Corporate tax", "text": "Corporate tax\n\nA corporate tax, also called corporation tax or company tax, is a direct tax* imposed by a jurisdiction on the income or capital of corporations or analogous legal entities. Many countries impose such taxes at the national level, and a similar tax may be imposed at state or local levels. The taxes may also be referred to as income tax or capital tax. Partnerships are generally not taxed at the entity level. A country's corporate tax may apply to:\n\nCompany income subject to tax is often determined much like taxable income for individual taxpayers. Generally, the tax is imposed on net profits. In some jurisdictions, rules for taxing companies may differ significantly from rules for taxing individuals. Certain corporate acts, like reorganizations, may not be taxed. Some types of entities may be exempt from tax.\n\nCountries may tax corporations on its net profit and may also tax shareholders when the corporation pays a dividend. Where dividends are taxed, a corporation may be required to withhold tax before the dividend is distributed.\n\nEconomists disagree as to how much of the burden of the corporate tax falls on owners, workers consumers and landowners, and how the corporate tax affects economic growth and economic inequality.\n\nNote:*Considered indirect because the cost of the tax can transferred to the consumer.\n\nA corporate tax is a tax imposed on the net profit of a corporation that are taxed at the entity level in a particular jurisdiction. Net profit for corporate tax is generally the financial statement net profit with modifications, and may be defined in great detail within each country's tax system. Such taxes may include income or other taxes. The tax systems of most countries impose an income tax at the entity level on certain type(s) of entities (company or corporation). The rate of tax varies by jurisdiction. The tax may have an alternative base, such as assets, payroll, or income computed in an alternative manner.\n\nMost countries exempt certain types of corporate events or transactions from income tax. For example, events related to formation or reorganization of the corporation, which are treated as capital costs. In addition, most systems provide specific rules for taxation of the entity and/or its members upon winding up or dissolution of the entity.\n\nIn systems where financing costs are allowed as reductions of the tax base (tax deductions), rules may apply that differentiate between classes of member-provided financing. In such systems, items characterized as interest may be deductible, perhaps subject to limitations, while items characterized as dividends are not. Some systems limit deductions based on simple formulas, such as a debt-to-equity ratio, while other systems have more complex rules.\n\nSome systems provide a mechanism whereby groups of related corporations may obtain benefit from losses, credits, or other items of all members within the group. Mechanisms include combined or consolidated returns as well as group relief (direct benefit from items of another member).\n\nMany systems additionally tax shareholders of those entities on dividends or other distributions by the corporation. A few systems provide for partial integration of entity and member taxation. This may be accomplished by \"imputation systems\" or franking credits. In the past, mechanisms have existed for advance payment of member tax by corporations, with such payment offsetting entity level tax.\n\nMany systems (particularly sub-country level systems) impose a tax on particular corporate attributes. Such non-income taxes may be based on capital stock issued or authorized (either by number of shares or value), total equity, net capital, or other measures unique to corporations.\n\nCorporations, like other entities, may be subject to withholding tax obligations upon making certain varieties of payments to others. These obligations are generally not the tax of the corporation, but the system may impose penalties on the corporation or its officers or employees for failing to withhold and pay over such taxes. A company has been defined as a juristic person having an independent and separate existence from its shareholders. Income of the company is computed and assessed separately in the hands of the company. In certain cases, distributions from the company to its shareholders as dividends are taxed as income to the shareholders.\n\nCorporations property tax, payroll tax, withholding tax, excise tax, customs duties, value added tax, and other common taxes, are generally not referred to as “corporate tax.”\n\nCharacterization as a corporation for tax purposes is based on the form of organization, with the exception of United States Federal and most states income taxes, under which an entity may elect to be treated as a corporation and taxed at the entity level or taxed only at the member level. See Limited liability company, Partnership taxation, S corporation, Sole proprietorship.\n\nMost jurisdictions tax corporations on their income, like the United Kingdom or the United States. The United States taxes all types of corporate income for a given company at the same rate, but provide different rates of tax depending on income levels or size of the company.\n\nThe United States taxes corporations under the same framework of tax law as individuals, with differences related to the inherent natures of corporations and individuals or unincorporated entities. Individuals are not formed, amalgamated, or acquired; and corporations do not incur medical expenses except by way of compensating individuals.\n\nMost systems tax both domestic and foreign corporations. Often, domestic corporations are taxed on worldwide income while foreign corporations are taxed only on income from sources within the jurisdiction. \n\nThe United States defines taxable income for a corporation as all gross income, i.e. sales plus other income minus cost of goods sold and tax exempt income less allowable tax deductions, without the allowance of the standard deduction applicable to individuals.\n\nThe United States' system requires that differences in principles for recognizing income and deductions differing from financial accounting principles like the timing of income or deduction, tax exemption for certain income, and disallowance or limitation of certain tax deductions be disclosed in considerable detail for non-small corporations on Schedule M-3 to Form 1120.\n\nThe United States taxes resident corporations, i.e. those organized within the country, on their worldwide income, and nonresident, foreign corporations only on their income from sources within the country. Hong Kong taxes resident and nonresident corporations only on income from sources within the country.\n\nCorporate tax rates generally are the same for differing types of income, yet the US graduated its tax rate system where corporations with lower levels of income pay a lower rate of tax, with rates varying from 15% on the first $50,000 of income to 35% on incomes over $10,000,000, with phase-outs.\n\nThe Canadian system imposes tax at different rates for different types of corporations, allowing lower rates for some smaller corporations.\n\nTax rates vary by jurisdiction and some countries have sub-country level jurisdictions like provinces, cantons, prefectures, cities, or other that also impose corporate income tax like Canada, Germany, Japan, Switzerland, and the United States. Some jurisdictions impose tax at a different rate on an alternative tax base.\n\nExamples of corporate tax rates for a few English-speaking countries include:\n\nCorporate tax rates vary widely by country, leading some corporations to shield earnings within offshore subsidiaries or to redomicile within countries with lower tax rates. \n\nIn comparing national corporate tax rates one should also take into account the taxes on dividends paid to shareholders. For example, the overall U.S. tax on corporate profits of 35% is less than or similar to that of European countries such as Germany, Ireland, Switzerland and the United Kingdom, which have lower corporate tax rates but higher taxes on dividends paid to shareholders. \n\nCorporate tax rates across the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) are shown in the table. Rates within the OECD vary from a low of 8.5% in Switzerland to a high of 34.43% in France, since the United States had recently decreased corporation tax to 22%. The OECD average is 22%. The first column in the table below represents corporate income tax rates mandated by the central government. The second column lists total combined tax rates which, in addition to the government tax rate, may also include various provincial, state and local taxes. For example, the 2015 provincial corporate tax rates in Canada range from 11.5% to 16% in addition to the federal tax rate of 15%, unless taxable profits of small corporations are low enough to qualify for a lower tax rate.\n\nThe corporate tax rates in other jurisdictions include:\n\nMost systems that tax corporations also impose income tax on shareholders of corporations when earnings are distributed. Such distribution of earnings is generally referred to as a dividend. The tax may be at reduced rates. For example, the United States provides for reduced amounts of tax on dividends received by individuals and by corporations. \n\nThe company law of some jurisdictions prevents corporations from distributing amounts to shareholders except as distribution of earnings. Such earnings may be determined under company law principles or tax principles. In such jurisdictions, exceptions are usually provided with respect to distribution of shares of the company, for winding up, and in limited other situations.\n\nOther jurisdictions treat distributions as distributions of earnings taxable to shareholders if earnings are available to be distributed, but do not prohibit distributions in excess of earnings. For example, under the United States system each corporation must maintain a calculation of its earnings and profits (a tax concept similar to retained earnings). A distribution to a shareholder is considered to be from earnings and profits to the extent thereof unless an exception applies. Note that the United States provides reduced tax on dividend income of both corporations and individuals.\n\nOther jurisdictions provide corporations a means of designating, within limits, whether a distribution is a distribution of earnings taxable to the shareholder or a return of capital.\n\nThe following illustrates the dual level of tax concept:\n\nC Corp earns 100 of profits before tax in each of years 1 and 2. It distributes all the earnings in year 3, when it has no profits. Jim owns all of C Corp. The tax rate in the residence jurisdiction of Jim and C Corp is 30%.\nMany systems provide that certain corporate events are not taxable to corporations or shareholders. Significant restrictions and special rules often apply. The rules related to such transactions are often quite complex.\n\nMost systems treat the formation of a corporation by a controlling corporate shareholder as a nontaxable event. Many systems, including the United States and Canada, extend this tax free treatment to the formation of a corporation by any group of shareholders in control of the corporation. Generally, in tax free formations the tax attributes of assets and liabilities are transferred to the new corporation along with such assets and liabilities.\n\nExample: John and Mary are United States residents who operate a business. They decide to incorporate for business reasons. They transfer the assets of the business to Newco, a newly formed Delaware corporation of which they are the sole shareholders, subject to accrued liabilities of the business in exchange solely for common shares of Newco. Under United States principles, this transfer does not cause tax to John, Mary, or Newco. If on the other hand Newco also assumes a bank loan in excess of the basis of the assets transferred less the accrued liabilities, John and Mary will recognize taxable gain for such excess.\n\nCorporations may merge or acquire other corporations in a manner a particular tax system treats as nontaxable to either of the corporations and/or to their shareholders. Generally, significant restrictions apply if tax free treatment is to be obtained. For example, Bigco acquires all of the shares of Smallco from Smallco shareholders in exchange solely for Bigco shares. This acquisition is not taxable to Smallco or its shareholders under U.S. or Canadian tax law if certain requirements are met, even if Smallco is then liquidated into or merged or amalgamated with Bigco.\n\nIn addition, corporations may change key aspects of their legal identity, capitalization, or structure in a tax free manner under most systems. Examples of reorganizations that may be tax free include mergers, amalgamations, liquidations of subsidiaries, share for share exchanges, exchanges of shares for assets, changes in form or place of organization, and recapitalizations.\n\nMost jurisdictions allow a tax deduction for interest expense incurred by a corporation in carrying out its trading activities. Where such interest is paid to related parties, such deduction may be limited. Without such limitation, owners could structure financing of the corporation in a manner that would provide for a tax deduction for much of the profits, potentially without changing the tax on shareholders. For example, assume a corporation earns profits of 100 before interest expense and would normally distribute 50 to shareholders. If the corporation is structured so that deductible interest of 50 is payable to the shareholders, it will cut its tax to half the amount due if it merely paid a dividend.\n\nA common form of limitation is to limit the deduction for interest paid to related parties to interest charged at arm's length rates on debt not exceeding a certain portion of the equity of the paying corporation. For example, interest paid on related party debt in excess of three times equity may not be deductible in computing taxable income.\n\nThe United States, United Kingdom, and French tax systems apply a more complex set of tests to limit deductions. Under the U.S. system, related party interest expense in excess of 50% of cash flow is generally not currently deductible, with the excess potentially deductible in future years.\n\nThe classification of instruments as debt on which interest is deductible or as equity with respect to which distributions are not deductible can be complex in some systems.\n\nMost jurisdictions tax foreign corporations differently from domestic corporations. No international laws limit the ability of a country to tax its nationals and residents (individuals and entities). However, treaties and practicality impose limits on taxation of those outside its borders, even on income from sources within the country.\n\nMost jurisdictions tax foreign corporations on business income within the jurisdiction when earned through a branch or permanent establishment in the jurisdiction. This tax may be imposed at the same rate as the tax on business income of a resident corporation or at a different rate.\n\nUpon payment of dividends, corporations are generally subject to withholding tax only by their country of incorporation. Many countries impose a branch profits tax on foreign corporations to prevent the advantage the absence of dividend withholding tax would otherwise provide to foreign corporations. This tax may be imposed at the time profits are earned by the branch or at the time they are remitted or deemed remitted outside the country.\n\nBranches of foreign corporations may not be entitled to all of the same deductions as domestic corporations. Some jurisdictions do not recognize inter-branch payments as actual payments, and income or deductions arising from such inter-branch payments are disregarded. Some jurisdictions impose express limits on tax deductions of branches. Commonly limited deductions include management fees and interest.\n\nNathan M. Jenson argues that low corporate tax rates are a minor determinate of a multinational company when setting up their headquarters in a country. Nathan M. Jenson: Sinha, S.S. 2008, \"Can India Adopt Strategic Flexibility Like China Did?\", Global Journal of Flexible Systems Management, vol. 9, no. 2/3, pp. 1.\n\nMost jurisdictions allow interperiod allocation or deduction of losses in some manner for corporations, even where such deduction is not allowed for individuals. A few jurisdictions allow losses (usually defined as negative taxable income) to be deducted by revising or amending prior year taxable income. Most jurisdictions allow such deductions only in subsequent periods. Some jurisdictions impose time limitations as to when loss deductions may be utilized.\n\nSeveral jurisdictions provide a mechanism whereby losses or tax credits of one corporation may be used by another corporation where both corporations are commonly controlled (together, a group). In the United States and Netherlands, among others, this is accomplished by filing a single tax return including the income and loss of each group member. This is referred to as a consolidated return in the United States and as a fiscal unity in the Netherlands. In the United Kingdom, this is accomplished directly on a pairwise basis called group relief. Losses of one group member company may be “surrendered” to another group member company, and the latter company may deduct the loss against profits.\n\nThe United States has extensive regulations dealing with consolidated returns. One such rule requires matching of income and deductions on intercompany transactions within the group by use of “deferred intercompany transaction” rules.\n\nIn addition, a few systems provide a tax exemption for dividend income received by corporations. The Netherlands system provides a “participation exception” to taxation for corporations owning more than 25% of the dividend paying corporation.\n\nA key issue in corporate tax is the setting of prices charged by related parties for goods, services or the use of property. Many jurisdictions have guidelines on transfer pricing which allow tax authorities to adjust transfer prices used. Such adjustments may apply in both an international and a domestic context.\n\nMost income tax systems levy tax on the corporation and, upon distribution of earnings (dividends), on the shareholder. This results in a dual level of tax. Most systems require that income tax be withheld on distribution of dividends to foreign shareholders, and some also require withholding of tax on distributions to domestic shareholders. The rate of such withholding tax may be reduced for a shareholder under a tax treaty.\n\nSome systems tax some or all dividend income at lower rates than other income. The United States has historically provided a dividends received deduction to corporations with respect to dividends from other corporations in which the recipient owns more than 10% of the shares. For tax years 2004–2010, the United States also has imposed a reduced rate of taxation on dividends received by individuals.\n\nSome systems currently attempt or in the past have attempted to integrate taxation of the corporation with taxation of shareholders to mitigate the dual level of taxation. As a current example, Australia provides for a “franking credit” as a benefit to shareholders. When an Australian company pays a dividend to a domestic shareholder, it reports the dividend as well as a notional tax credit amount. The shareholder utilizes this notional credit to offset shareholder level income tax.\n\nA previous system was utilised in the United Kingdom, called the Advance Corporation Tax (ACT). When a company paid a dividend, it was required to pay an amount of ACT, which it then used to offset its own taxes. The ACT was included in income by the shareholder resident in the United Kingdom or certain treaty countries, and treated as a payment of tax by the shareholder. To the extent that deemed tax payment exceeded taxes otherwise due, it was refundable to the shareholder.\n\nMany jurisdictions incorporate some sort of alternative tax computation. These computations may be based on assets, capital, wages, or some alternative measure of taxable income. Often the alternative tax functions as a minimum tax.\n\nUnited States federal income tax incorporates an alternative minimum tax. This tax is computed at a lower tax rate (20% for corporations), and imposed based on a modified version of taxable income. Modifications include longer depreciation lives assets under MACRS, adjustments related to costs of developing natural resources, and an addback of certain tax exempt interest. The U. S. state of Michigan previously taxed businesses on an alternative base that did not allow compensation of employees as a tax deduction and allowed full deduction of the cost of production assets upon acquisition.\n\nSome jurisdictions, such as Swiss cantons and certain states within the United States, impose taxes based on capital. These may be based on total equity per audited financial statements, a computed amount of assets less liabilities or quantity of shares outstanding. In some jurisdictions, capital based taxes are imposed in addition to the income tax. In other jurisdictions, the capital taxes function as alternative taxes.\n\nMexico imposes an alternative tax on corporations, the IETU. The tax rate is lower than the regular rate, and there are adjustments for salaries and wages, interest and royalties, and depreciable assets.\n\nMost systems require that corporations file an annual income tax return. Some systems (such as the Canadian and United States systems) require that taxpayers self assess tax on the tax return. Other systems provide that the government must make an assessment for tax to be due. Some systems require certification of tax returns in some manner by accountants licensed to practice in the jurisdiction, often the company's auditors.\n\nTax returns can be fairly simple or quite complex. The systems requiring simple returns often base taxable income on financial statement profits with few adjustments, and may require that audited financial statements be attached to the return. Returns for such systems generally require that the relevant financial statements be attached to a simple adjustment schedule. By contrast, United States corporate tax returns require both computation of taxable income from components thereof and reconciliation of taxable income to financial statement income.\n\nMany systems require forms or schedules supporting particular items on the main form. Some of these schedules may be incorporated into the main form. For example, the Canadian corporate return, Form T-2, an 8-page form, incorporates some detail schedules but has nearly 50 additional schedules that may be required.\n\nSome systems have different returns for different types of corporations or corporations engaged in specialized businesses. The United States has 13 variations on the basic Form 1120 for S corporations, insurance companies, Domestic international sales corporations, foreign corporations, and other entities. The structure of the forms and imbedded schedules vary by type of form.\n\nPreparation of non-simple corporate tax returns can be time consuming. For example, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service states in the instructions for Form 1120 that the average time needed to complete form is over 56 hours, not including record keeping time and required attachments.\n\nTax return due dates vary by jurisdiction, fiscal or tax year, and type of entity. In self-assessment systems, payment of taxes is generally due no later than the normal due date, though advance tax payments may be required. Canadian corporations must pay estimated taxes monthly. In each case, final payment is due with the corporation tax return.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15905434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15905434", "title": "Credit card hijacking", "text": "Credit card hijacking\n\nCredit card hijacking is a form of credit card fraud and the term is used when a person’s credit card is used by an unauthorized person (e.g. a thief or overaggressive vendor) to buy goods or services. The credit card owner usually has trouble reasserting control over the card, because usually he or she doesn't find out immediately, and the owner must distinguish legitimate purchases from illegitimate in a credible manner.\n\nThe first form of credit card hijacking is basically identity theft, which is the deliberate use of another person's identity. Identity theft is usually the result of serious breaches of privacy and often involves the victim compromising a great deal of financial and personal information allowing the thief to charge an existing credit card account or open up new credit card accounts in the name of the victim. Methods of identity theft for credit card hijacking have involved mail interception or skimming of credit card data. The growth of online subscriptions and transactions have also brought along a variety of different phishing and the use of spyware and botnets.\n\nRadio-frequency identification RFID uses electromagnetic fields to automatically identify and track tags attached to objects. There have been several demonstrations on how credit card fraud can committed through RFID scanners. Although the possibility of credit fraud using an RFID scanner is rare, it is possible for it to happen. There are more occurrences with credit card fraud that happen through PoS or point of sale that has been compromised with malware. The malware is typically installed by someone who hacks into the system from another location if not always, installed through hacking by. Another well known tactic for credit card fraud is the placement of skimmers on an ATM by the person or persons committing the credit fraud. \n\nAnother form of credit card hijacking is the continued charging of a person’s credit card for a subscription to goods or services no longer desired by the credit card owner. This type of credit card hijacking was pioneered by major ISPs, credit monitoring services and online dating services, are perfectly legal, and are still common today in a wide range of subscription based goods and services. Credit card hijacking of this type came about as online subscription based marketers realized that traditional subscription systems, such as the annual subscriptions that paper magazines use, were an impediment to enrolling customers. For instance, a subscription that is US$24.95 per month, is US$299.40 annually. By breaking the subscription period into small units like months or quarters, and allowing direct monthly charging of the subscriber’s credit card, the psychological and economic conflicts subscribers see are greatly reduced. \n\nThe issue which makes one subscription system a hijacking of the credit card is not how often it's billed, but the organization creating barriers that make it more difficult for subscriptions to be cancelled. Organizations which use credit card hijacking as part of their marketing strategy make online registration for the subscription easy, enforce default automatic renewal policies. In comparison to traditional subscription based system such as paper magazines where the subscriber has to periodically proactively reauthorize the subscription. Instead of an automatic renewal. The most common subscription exit barrier is to not provide any online subscription cancellation mechanism at all, but to instead require the user to cancel by telephone or by \"on-line chats\". Such organizations often add the additional barrier of making any subscription cancellation information difficult for the user to even find, thus creating an additional delay in the subscription cancellation. This is very common with internet service providers, who know the psychological barrier to making the call, which the subscriber anticipates will be unpleasant, is very high. It also allows the marketing organization to talk the subscriber into changing their minds and not cancelling the subscription. Another common subscription cancellation barrier is to have a relatively long subscription period, a no refund policy, and to require the user upon cancellation to forfeit all money covering the present subscription period. This is very common with online dating services. \n\nThis second form of credit card hijacking was created by marketers who recognized that subscription based services generally have relatively low periodic billing amounts which will generally go unnoticed on any given credit card statement. So what happens is that long after the user loses interest in the subscription, they forget to cancel the subscription and because the periodic billing is so low, they don’t tend to notice it on their credit card statement.\n\nA simple solution to this problem is to call the credit card company, request a new card with a different account number, and cancel the previous account. They will transfer the debt amount from the old account to the new account. This makes companies that have the credit card information unable to continue charging the credit card of the person. \n\nNegative option billing is the practice of sending goods automatically and billing the recipient unless the recipient is proactive in declining the goods before they are sent. Negative option billing reverses the usual direction of sales transactions. It assumes that unless you say 'no', you've agreed to have bought the goods. This is the common practice used in book clubs, record clubs, and magazine subscriptions with automatic renewal. Some practitioners of negative option billing prefer to call it \"advance consent marketing\".\n\nIf a customer cancels services provided by a vendor, the vender would be committing fraud if they bill for services not provided (for example internet access). Some venders avoid this problem by billing monthly for a \"membership\", even though no services are used by the former customer. By retaining the membership number in an active status, the vendor makes it difficult for the customer to prove that the membership was cancelled. This is a form of credit card fraud that is not often regarded as such. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "19985131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19985131", "title": "Detroit Cornice and Slate Company Building", "text": "Detroit Cornice and Slate Company Building\n\nThe Detroit Cornice and Slate Company Building is a Beaux-Arts style industrial office building located at 733 St. Antoine Street (at East Lafayette Street) in Downtown Detroit, Michigan. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places and designated a Michigan State Historic Site in 1974.\n\nThe Detroit Cornice and Slate Company was started by Frank Hesse in 1888. In 1897, the company hired Harry J. Rill to design a Beaux-Arts three-story building for their use. The building was used by the company until 1972, when lack of storage and parking space forced the company to relocate in Ferndale. In 1974, the building was renovated for office and commercial use by architect Bill Kessler. In the 1990s, the \"Metro Times\" newspaper moved into the building; a wraparound addition was constructed to increase room for the newspaper. In 1999 William Kessler and Associates restored and made an addition to the building.\n\nIn July 2013 Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan was finalizing the purchase of the Cornice and Slate Company Building, which had the \"Metro Times\" and Paxahau, an event production and management company that produces the Movement Electronic Music Festival. The Cornice and Slate building is adjacent to the BCBS Bricktown customer service facility. The acquisition of the Cornice and Slate building would add additional space to BCBS's Greektown facility. The ground floor lease to the Flood's Bar & Grille would be maintained while the Cornice and Slate second and third floors would be used as office space for about 100 BCBS employees. This means that the other tenants would be expected to move out of the building. Helen Stojic, director of corporate communications for BCBS, did not state the sale price of the building. BCBS was expected to close on the purchase in August 2013.\n\nBy July 16, 2013 Chris Sexson of the \"Metro Times\" stated that the publication had not yet made definitive plans for its new headquarters but was already looking for a new headquarters location. The acquisition forced the \"Metro Times\" to move. The newspaper leased space in a facility in Ferndale, Michigan.\n\nThe facade of this building is constructed from finely crafted galvanized steel. These metal facades permitted elegant ornamentation to be constructed quickly and cheaply, particularly in locations like Detroit where stone was not easily obtainable. The Detroit Cornice and Slate Company itself fashioned many of the building's simulated carvings from sheet metal.\n\n"}
{"id": "40381894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40381894", "title": "Felicia Mabuza-Suttle", "text": "Felicia Mabuza-Suttle\n\nFelicia Mabuza-Suttle is a South African talk show hostess and entrepreneur. In the TV show Great South Africans, she was voted as the 70th greatest South African of all time in an informal public poll.\n\nMabuza-Suttle was born in Sophiatown, a black neighbourhood in Johannesburg, South Africa, during the apartheid era. Her grandfather, Ben Mabuza, raised her and was a major inspiration for her later success. Meanwhile, her father, who owned one of the first driving schools in the nation, provided a steady income for the family. During her childhood she became interested in dance, which became a lifelong pursuit.\n\nIn the 1960s and 70s, a large number of black South Africans went overseas to study to evade the apartheid regime. Mabuza-Suttle was amongst them, studying at Marquette University in the United States. In the 80s, she became the first member of her family to achieve a college degree when she earned a BA in Journalism, followed by an MA in Mass Communication.\n\nAs well as studying, Mabuza-Suttle also wrote for the \"World Newspaper\", where she met prominent anti-apartheid activists, including Steve Biko, the leader of the Black Consciousness Movement. This would lead to her becoming politically involved when she returned to South Africa.\n\nMabuza-Suttle returned for a short time to South Africa in 1982 to work for Radio Bophutatswana, where she was criticised for being politically incorrect.\n\nIn 1990, Mabuza-Suttle returned permanently to South Africa, accepting a position at the South African Airways. In 1992, she began her television career after being offered a job as a talk show host at the South African Broadcasting Corporation. Talk shows were a fairly new concept in South Africa at the time, and her show rapidly became successful. Originally known as \"Top Level\", its name was changed to \"The Felicia Show\" in 1995, and was again renamed simply \"Felicia\" in 2000 (accompanying a move to ETV, the largest South African English-language channel). The show focused mainly on social topics, but also ventured into entertainment.\n\nHowever, amidst criticisms that her show was too similar to The Oprah Winfrey Show, \"Felicia\" closed down in 2004. Mabuza-Suttle moved her show to the United States, where it was broadcast as \"Conversations with Felicia\" on The Africa Channel. It still focused mainly on South African personalities.\n\nPropelled by her success on television, Mabuza-Suttle founded several business ventures, including the \"Felicia\" brand of clothing and accessories, Pamodzi Investments, FMS Productions, and Back of the Moon, a restaurant. She has been involved in philanthropic activities, including donating a portion of her eyewear profits to an anti-drug and anti-crime campaign.\n\nHowever, in 2012, she liquidated Back of the Moon for various reasons, including economic and legal difficulties, and disagreements with her business partner and landlord.\n\nMabuza-Suttle married Earl Suttle in 1976. She lives in Johannesburg, while Earl Suttle lives in Atlanta, Georgia. They have two children, Lindiwe and Zanele.\n\n"}
{"id": "57880084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57880084", "title": "Focal Point Data Risk", "text": "Focal Point Data Risk\n\nFocal Point Data Risk, LLC (commonly known as Focal Point) is an IT risk management consulting firm based in Tampa, FL. Focal Point was formed in January 2017 as the result of a merger between Sunera, APTEC, LLC, and ANRC LLC.\n\nThe company provides a range of cybersecurity, risk management, cybersecurity workforce development, and enterprise technology implementation services.\n\nIn 2017, Focal Point named former Cisco executive Brian Marlier as Chief Executive Officer.\n\nFocal Point publishes the annual Cyber Balance Sheet Report, covering Board-level cyber issues.\n\nFocal Point was originally founded as Sunera in April 2005 by former KPMG partners and executives. Sunera focused its original service offerings on IT controls testing, vulnerability assessments, internal audit, and Sarbanes-Oxley compliance.\n\nIn 2014, Sunera was acquired by Cyber Risk Management, a company formed by Norwest Equity Partners, Halyard Capital, and partners of Sunera.\n\nCyber Risk Management acquired ANRC, a cyber security training provider, in 2014, and APTEC, LLC, an identity and access management solutions integrator in 2015.\n\nOn February 6, 2015, Florida Governor Rick Scott announced the expansion of the company’s Tampa headquarters. The expansion brought 41 new jobs between 2015 and 2018.\n"}
{"id": "594233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=594233", "title": "Free lunch", "text": "Free lunch\n\nA free lunch is a sales enticement that offers a meal at no cost in order to attract customers and increase revenues from other offerings. It was a tradition once common in saloons in many places in the United States, with the phrase appearing in U.S. literature from about 1870 to the 1920s. These establishments included a \"free\" lunch, varying from rudimentary to quite elaborate, with the purchase of at least one drink. These free lunches were typically worth far more than the price of a single drink. The saloon-keeper relied on the expectation that most customers would buy more than one drink, and that the practice would build patronage for other times of day.\n\nFree food or drink is sometimes supplied in contemporary times, often by gambling establishments such as casinos.\n\nThe saying \"there ain't no such thing as a free lunch\" refers to this custom, meaning that things which appear to be free are always paid for in some way.\n\nIn 1875, \"The New York Times \"wrote of elaborate free lunches as a \"custom peculiar to the Crescent City\" (New Orleans), saying, \"In every one of the drinking saloons which fill the city a meal of some sort is served free every day. The custom appears to have prevailed long before the war... I am informed that there are thousands of men in this city who live entirely on the meals obtained in this way.\" As described by this reporter,\nA free lunch-counter is a great leveler of classes, and when a man takes up a position before one of them he must give up all hope of appearing either dignified or consequential. In New-Orleans all classes of the people can be seen partaking of these free meals and pushing and scrambling to be helped a second time. [At one saloon] six men were engaged in preparing drinks for the crowd that stood in front of the counter. I noticed that the price charged for every kind of liquor was fifteen cents, punches and cobblers costing no more than a glass of ale.\n\nThe repast included \"immense dishes of butter,\" large baskets of bread, \"a monster silver boiler filled with a most excellent oyster soup,\" \"a round of beef that must have weighed at least forty pounds,\" vessels filled with potatoes, stewed mutton, stewed tomatoes, and macaroni \"à la Français.\" The proprietor said that the patrons included \"at least a dozen old fellows who come here every day, take one fifteen cent drink, eat a dinner which would have cost them $1 in a restaurant, and then complain that the beef is tough or the potatoes watery.\" ($0.15 in 1875 is ; $1 in 1875 is )\n\nThe nearly indigent \"free-lunch fiend\" was a recognized social type. An 1872 \"New York Times\" story about \"loafers and free-lunch men\" who \", yet they 'get along,'\" visiting saloons, trying to bum drinks from strangers; \"should this inexplicable lunch-fiend not happen to be called to drink, he devours whatever he can, and, while the bartender is occupied, tries to escape unnoticed.\"\n\nIn American saloon bars from the late 19th century until Prohibition, bouncers had, in addition to their role of removing drunks who were too intoxicated to keep buying drinks, fighters, and troublemakers, the unusual role of protecting the saloon's free buffet. To attract business, \"...many saloons lured customers with offers of a \"free lunch\"—usually well salted to inspire drinking, and the saloon \"bouncer\" was generally on hand to discourage [those with too] hearty appetites\".\n\nThe custom was well-developed in San Francisco. An 1886 story on the fading of the days of the 1849 California Gold Rush calls \"the free lunch fiend the only landmark of the past.\" It asks \"How do all these idle people live\" and asserts, \"It is the free lunch system that keeps them alive. Take away that peculiarly California institution and they would all starve.\" Rudyard Kipling, writing in 1891, noted how he\n\ncame upon a barroom full of bad Salon pictures in which men with hats on the backs of their heads were wolfing food from a counter. It was the institution of the \"free lunch\" I had struck. You paid for a drink and got as much as you wanted to eat. For something less than a rupee a day a man can feed himself sumptuously in San Francisco, even though he be a bankrupt. Remember this if ever you are stranded in these parts.\n\nA 1919 novel compared a war zone to the free lunch experience by saying \"the shells and shrapnels was flyin round and over our heads thicker than hungry bums around a free lunch counter.\"\n\nThe temperance movement opposed the free lunch as promoting the consumption of alcohol. An 1874 history of the movement writes:\nIn the cities, there are prominent rooms on fashionable streets that hold out the sign \"Free Lunch.\" Does it mean that some [philanthropist]... has gone systematically to work setting out tables... placing about them a score of the most beautiful and winning young ladies... hiring a band of music? Ah, no!... there are men who do all this in order to hide the main feature of their peculiar institution. Out of sight is a well-filled bar, which is the centre about which all these other things are made to revolve. All the gathered fascinations and attractions are as so many baits to allure men into the net that is spread for them. Thus consummate art plies the work of death, and virtue, reputation, and every good are sacrificed at these worse than Moloch shrines.\n\nA number of writers, however, suggest that the free lunch actually performed a social relief function. Reformer William T. Stead commented that in winter in 1894 the suffering of the poor in need of food\nwould have been very much greater had it not been for the help given by the labor unions to their members and for an agency which, without pretending to be of much account from a charitable point of view, nevertheless fed more hungry people in Chicago than all the other agencies, religious, charitable, and municipal, put together. I refer to the Free Lunch of the saloons. There are from six to seven thousand saloons in Chicago. In one half of these a free lunch is provided every day of the week.\" \nHe states that \"in many cases the free lunch is really a free lunch,\" citing an example of a saloon which did not insist on a drink purchase, although commenting that this saloon was \"better than its neighbors.\" Stead cites a newspaper's estimate that the saloon keepers fed 60,000 people a day and that this represented a contribution of about $18,000 a week toward the relief of the destitute in Chicago.\n\nIn 1896, the New York State legislature passed the Raines law which was intended to regulate liquor traffic. Among its many provisions, one forbade the sale of liquor unless accompanied by food; another outlawed the free lunch. In 1897, however, it was amended to allow free lunches again.\n"}
{"id": "33756110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33756110", "title": "George Arthur Forrest", "text": "George Arthur Forrest\n\nGeorge Arthur Forrest (born 1940) is a Belgian entrepreneur, owner of the Forrest Group (\"Groupe Forrest\"), a group of companies founded in the Belgian Congo in 1922 and active in wind power and hydroelectric energy, construction, mines and metallurgy, biological food and aviation.\nHe has been described as a philanthropic employer. Forrest is reported to be one of the richest men in Congo.\n\nGeorge Arthur Forrest was born in 1940 in Lubumbashi in what is now the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).\nHe was the son of an Irish immigrant.\nHis father, Malta Forrest, had founded l'Entreprise Générale Malta Forrest (EGMF) in 1922 in Katanga Province in the south of the Belgian Congo. The company started as a transport company, then moved into mining and then into civil engineering. In 1968 it became a limited liability company, with George Forrest and his adoptive brother Victor Eskenazi-Forrest as Managing Directors. In 1986, after his brother died, George Forrest took full control. He created the George Forrest International Group in 1995.\n\nIn the early 2000s his company acquired several major cement production facilities, which should benefit from construction demand with the end of the Second Congo War in 2003.\nForrest's DRC operations grew to include 9,500 direct employees and 15,000 subcontractors.\nForrest is a sponsor of \"Dialogues\", a non-profit association that promotes the visual arts in Lubumbashi and supports the city’s museum. He also owns the Grelka Biano Ranch, with 30,000 head of cattle and 800 local employees.\n\nIn December 2001 the United Nations asked a panel of experts to investigate the illegal exploitation of natural resources and other forms of wealth of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The panel's report was issued in October 2002. In it they said George Forrest had long-standing ties to the establishment in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and described him as a member of the elite network of Congolese interests. \n"}
{"id": "54698863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54698863", "title": "Ghana Union of Traders", "text": "Ghana Union of Traders\n\nGhana Union of Traders is the umbrella body that regulates the activities of trades in Ghana. The body also lobbies the Government of Ghana on issues that affect traders in the country.\n"}
{"id": "27548093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27548093", "title": "Gita Wirjawan", "text": "Gita Wirjawan\n\nGita Irawan Wirjawan (born September 21, 1965) is an Indonesian entrepreneur, investment banker and philanthropist. Previously he served as Minister of Trade of the Republic of Indonesia during President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono’s Kabinet Indonesia Bersatu II (Second United Indonesia Cabinet). He is the founder of Ancora Group and Ancora Foundation. He is the current head of Badminton Association of Indonesia.\n\nGita Wirjawan was born in Jakarta to Paula Warokka and Wirjawan Djojosugito. He has Minahasan and Javanese ancestry. The youngest of five children, Wirjawan attended Budi Waluyo Elementary School and Pangudi Luhur Junior High School in Jakarta before moving to Bangladesh, and later to India, at the age of thirteen as his father was serving as a WHO officer in Bangladesh.\n\nWirjawan earned a bachelor's degree in Business Administration from the University of Texas, Austin in 1988, a master's degree in Business Administration from Baylor University in 1989, and a master's degree in Public Administration from Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government, as a Mason Fellow, in 2000. He also qualified as a Certified Public Accountant in the State of Texas, U.S.A., and holds a Chartered Financial Analyst designation.\n\nAn avid musician, Wirjawan met his wife, Yasmin Stamboel, while teaching piano lessons during his college summer break. The couple got married in 1993 and have three children.\n\nWirjawan began his career as an auditor at the firm of Morrison Brown & Argiz in Miami, Florida in 1989. He joined Citibank in Indonesia in 1992 in the Consumer Banking department, becoming a vice president in 1997. From July 1997 to May 1999 Wirjawan was a Director of Corporate Finance at Bahana Securities, Indonesia. He joined Goldman Sachs, Singapore in July 2000 as a Vice President in the Investment Banking Division, followed by a stint at Singapore Technologies Telemedia as a Senior Vice President, International Business Development from 2003 until 2004. From 2004 to 2008 Wirjawan served as a Senior Country Officer and President Director JP Morgan Indonesia.\n\nAfter leaving JP Morgan in April 2008, Wirjawan established the Ancora Group, focusing on investments in Indonesia. Ancora Capital, a private equity arm of the Group, invests primarily in growth companies in the middle market segment across the consumer and natural resources sectors.\n\nWirjawan left the Ancora Group in October 2009 to begin his public service until the early part of 2014.\n\nPresident Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono appointed Wirjawan as Chairman of Indonesia’s Investment Coordinating Board (BKPM) in October 2009. Under his leadership, foreign direct investments in Indonesia almost doubled from US$11bn in 2009 to $19bn in 2011.\n\nWirjawan was appointed as Minister of Trade of Indonesia in October 2011. One of his biggest accomplishments in this role was, as Chairman of the Ninth World Trade Organization Ministerial Conference of 2013 held in Bali Dec. 3-7, 2013, leading the 159 members of the WTO to agree to a package to ease international trade barriers. Also notable was that under his leadership, Trade Law was finally passed by the House of Representatives on Feb. 11, a new milestone for the country after 80 years of using the previous Dutch-era law.\n\nIn February 2014, Wirjawan resigned from his position as Minister of Trade to participate in the Democratic Party Convention as a Presidential Candidate.\n\nIn July 2014, Wirjawan decided to return to Ancora Group.\n\nWirjawan currently sits on the international advisory board of ACE Group and at Singapore Management University (SMU). Previously, he served as a Commissioner of state-owned oil and gas company Pertamina, an Independent Board Director of Axiata Group Berhad, and Independent Commissioner of Axiata Excelcomindo.\n\nWirjawan is a senior fellow at the Zbigniew Brzezinski Institute on Geostrategy at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington D.C. He is also a member of the Dean's Leadership Council for the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies at Nanyang Technological University.\n\nWirjawan has keen interest in education and the important role it could play to propel Indonesia into the ranks of developed nations. He established Ancora Foundation with the mission of helping both early stage education and graduate studies for talented Indonesians. Ancora Foundation has sponsored the training of teachers at 450 kindergartens serving underprivileged children throughout Indonesia, the beneficiaries of which are called “Sekolah Rakyat Ancora”. Wirjawan has endowed scholarships for Indonesians to attend top universities around the world, including Harvard University, University of Oxford, Stanford University, University of Cambridge, Universiti Malaya, Nanyang Technological University, and Sciences Po. Since its establishment, the scholarship program has sent 42 Indonesians to these leading universities .\nAn avid golfer since he was ten years old, Wirjawan set up Ancora Golf Institute and Ancora Sports to groom future Indonesian golfers. Through its programs, Ancora Sports has scouted and sponsored young talents such as George Gandranata, Rory Hie, and Jordan Irawan to become top golfers in Indonesia.\n\nLearning piano since the age of 6, Wirjawan is an ardent jazz musician. He has performed in concerts (such as Java Jazz and Bob James Concert) and written songs for several albums. His musical passion prompted Wirjawan to establish Omega Pacific Production/Ancora Music to help young talented musicians. He has produced, composed, distributed, and/or played on fourteen albums, with different musical genres including jazz, pop, lounge, boy band and world music (Cherokee, Bali Lounge, Nial Djuliarso at Juilliard, Tompi, Asia Beat, Bali Lounge 2, Ken, Nial - New Day New Hope, Miss Kadaluarsa, Elvyn Masassya - Titik Balik, Smash and Dewi Lestari - RectoVerso).\n\nOn December 14, 2012, Wirjawan was elected as the Chairman of Indonesian Badminton Association (Persatuan Bulutangkis Seluruh Indonesia, “PBSI”) for the 2012-2016 period. Wirjawan set the goal of returning Indonesia to the top ranks of badminton, as the country was in the 1970s and 1980s. To ensure the athletes can still get formal education while in training, Wirjawan set up a ‘home-school’ for athletes inside the training camp. Under his chairmanship, Indonesia has so far won three gold medals at the World Championships, 4 titles at the All England Championships, overall champion at the Southeast Asian Games in 2013 and 2015, 2 titles at the 2014 Asian Games in Incheon, South Korea and 1 titles Summer Olympic 2016 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.\n\nIn July 2013, Wirjawan was awarded an honorary designation of 'Sangaji Gam Ma Lamo' from the Sultan of Ternate, North Molucca, Indonesia, for his role in preserving Indonesia’s local customs and heritage. In December 2013, he received an honorary doctorate in business administration from Naresuan University in Phitsanulok, Thailand in recognition of his role in developing the economy and supporting the future of youth in Indonesia. He was awarded a knighthood of ‘KRT Djojonegoro’ from Pakualaman Palace, Surakarta, in January 2014 for his active contribution in maintaining the Pakualaman cultural heritage. In October 2014, President Soesilo Bambang Yudhoyono awarded him Bintang Mahaputra Adipradana in recognition of his extraordinary contribution, as a cabinet member, to his respective field that benefits the country and the nation.\n"}
{"id": "14781853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14781853", "title": "Government of Nova Scotia", "text": "Government of Nova Scotia\n\nThe Government of Nova Scotia refers to the provincial government of the Canadian province of Nova Scotia. Nova Scotia is one of Canada’s four Atlantic Provinces, and the second-smallest province in Canada. The capital of the province, Halifax, is Nova Scotia's largest city and its political capital. Halifax is where the Province House, Canada’s oldest legislative building, is located. \n\nThe Government of Nova Scotia consists of three branches: legislative, executive and judicial. Its powers and structure are set out in the Constitution Act, 1867. In modern Canadian use, the term \"government\" refers broadly to the cabinet of the day (formally the Executive Council of Nova Scotia), elected from the Nova Scotia House of Assembly and the non-political staff within each provincial department or agency – that is, the civil service. \n\nThe Province of Nova Scotia is governed by a unicameral legislature, the Nova Scotia House of Assembly, which operates in the Westminster system of government. In total 52 representatives are elected to serve the interests of the province. The political party that wins the largest number of seats in the legislature normally forms the government, and the party's leader becomes premier of the province (the head of the government). The current government of the province is led by the Nova Scotia Liberal Party, headed by Premier Stephen McNeil who was sworn into office in October of 2013. \n\nThe history of Canadian parliamentary institutions begins in Nova Scotia. In 1758, it was granted an elected assembly, becoming the first Canadian colony to enjoy a representative political institution. The representatives of Nova Scotia's House of Assembly were elected by a limited number of individuals who were required to own property and swear on certain oaths. This changed in 1836 when political reformer Joseph Howe started the movement for Responsible Government. Responsible Government is described as a government that is dependent on the support of an elected assembly instead of a monarch.Under the guidance of Joseph Howe, who lead the Reformers (Liberals), the first genuine political party appeared in the election of 1836. \n\nThe Premier, or First Minister, of Nova Scotia is the head of the Executive Council of Nova Scotia. Being the head of government in Nova Scotia, the premier exercises a substantial amount of power. Hon. James B. was the first Premier of Nova Scotia and led the government from 1848 to 1854.\n\nThe current Premier, Stephen McNeil, was sworn in as premier on October 22, 2013, Hon. Stephen McNeil became the 28th Premier of the Province of Nova Scotia since Confederation. Premier McNeil was elected Leader of the Nova Scotia Liberal Party in 2007.\n\nThe functions of the Sovereign, Elizabeth II, Queen of Canada, and known in Nova Scotia as the Queen in Right of Nova Scotia, are exercised by the Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia. The Lieutenant Governor is appointed by the Governor General of Canada on the recommendation of the Prime Minister of Canada, in consultation with the Premier of Nova Scotia. In the case of unconstitutional actions, the Lieutenant Governor has the power to dismiss a government by refusing a decision of the Executive Council. This power is rarely used as it would disrupt the affairs of the elected government. \n\nThe Executive branch is referred to as the government. The Executive Council, also called the Cabinet, makes the final decision for the Government of Nova Scotia. It is responsible for the operations and management of government as well as for making key policy decisions. The Executive Council is made up of Ministers, also called MLAs (Members in the Legislative Assembly). They are chosen by the Premier and appointed by the Lieutenant Governor.\n\nThe Nova Scotia government ended 2010-2011 with a surplus of $569 million and reduced its debt to $12.8 billion, down $217.8 million. The Nova Scotia government projects total revenues for 2018-2019 to be $10.810 billion. Expenses for fiscal year 2018-2019 are budgeted at $10.781 billion. The government budget for 2018–2019 projects a surplus of $29.4 million\n\n\nIn 2012 Nova Scotia signed a 10-year contract starting at $Cdn 8.4 million per year, with multinational information technology firm, IBM Canada to outsource the government's SAP information management system, which includes \"payroll, procurement, human resources and other information from government departments, district health authorities, school boards, housing authorities and some municipal bodies.\nOne hundred public sector jobs will be privatized in the first stage. Workers whose jobs were privatized would \"earn 30 per cent less, with many fewer benefits\" than in the public sector. The deal is worth approximately $100 million. There is a concern that IT outsourcing will spread throughout the government. Kevin Quigley, the director of Dalhousie University's School of Public Administration, argued that while outsourcing may cut costs but it also leads to a dependency on an external source and a loss of control over software, capacity-building and human resource development.\nIBM Canada will make Halifax a global delivery centre, with a potential for 500 employees by 2021.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12563713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12563713", "title": "High production volume chemicals", "text": "High production volume chemicals\n\nHigh production volume chemicals, also referred to as HPV chemicals, are produced or imported into the United States in quantities of 1 million pounds or 500 tons per year. In OECD countries, HPV chemicals are defined as being produced at levels greater than 1,000 metric tons per producer/importer per year in at least one member country/region. A list of HPV chemicals serves as an overall priority list, from which chemicals are selected to gather data for a screening information dataset (SIDS), for testing and for initial hazard assessment.\n\nIn 1987, member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development decided to investigate existing chemicals. In 1991, they agreed to begin by focusing on High production volume (HPV) chemicals, where production volume was used as a surrogate for data on occupational, consumer, and environmental exposure. Each country agreed to \"sponsor\" the assessment of a proportion of the HPV chemicals. Countries also agreed on a minimum set of required information, the screening information dataset (SIDS). Six tests are: acute toxicity, chronic toxicity, developmental toxicity/reproductive toxicity, mutagenicity, ecotoxicity and environmental fate. Using SIDS and detailed exposure data OECD's High Production Volume Chemicals Programme conducted initial risk assessments to screen and to identify any need for further work.\n\nDuring the late 1990s, OECD member countries began to assess chemical categories and to use quantitative structure–activity relationship (QSAR) results to create OECD guidance documents, as well as a computerized QSAR toolbox. In 1998, the global chemical industry, organized in the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) initiative, offered to join OECD efforts. The ICCA promised to sponsor by 2013 about 1,000 substances from the OECD's HPV chemicals list \"to establish as priorities for investigation\", based on \"presumed wide dispersive use, production in two or more global regions or similarity to another chemical, which met either of these criteria\". OECD in turn agreed to refocus and to \"increase transparency, efficiency and productivity and allow longer-term planning for governments and industry\". The OECD refocus was on initial hazard assessments of HPV chemicals only, and no longer extensive exposure information gathering and evaluation. Detailed exposure assessments within national (or regional) programmes and priority setting activities were postponed as post-SIDS work.\n\nOn October 9, 1998, EPA Administrator Carol Browner sent letters to the CEOs of more than 900 chemical companies that manufacture HPV chemicals, asking them to participate in EPA's voluntary testing initiative, the so-called \"HPV Challenge Program\". The Environmental Defense Fund, the American Petroleum Institute, and American Chemistry Council joined in the effort.\n\nThe OECD list of HPV chemicals keeps changing. A 2004 list of 143 pages contained 4,842 entries. A 2007 list was published in 2009.\n\nThe EPA has published an online list of HPV chemicals since 2010. The list is not numerated and without footnotes.\n\nThe \"Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management\" (SAICM) is a policy for achieving safe production and use of chemicals worldwide by 2020, developed with stakeholders from more than 140 countries, signed by 100 governments, adopted by the UNEP Governing Council in February 2006. \nThe Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) proposal and the European Chemicals Agency will help the EU to fulfill objectives of SAICM.\nThe Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants has aimed to control production, use, trade, disposal and release of twelve Persistent organic pollutants (POPs); the European Community has proposed five additional chemicals. The Convention bans deliberate production and use of POPs, bans the development of new POPs, and aims at minimizing releases of unintentionally produced POPs. The Convention has so far been ratified by the European Community, 18 member states and the two accession countries.\n\nThe 1976 Toxic Substances Control Act requires the EPA to \"compile, keep current, and publish a list of each chemical substance that is manufactured or processed in the United States\". In 1998, the EPA reported the most heavily used HPV chemicals in commerce were largely untested: 43% of 2,800 HPV chemicals had no basic toxicity data or screening level data at all, 50% had incomplete screening data, and only 7% of the HPV chemicals had a complete set of screening level toxicity data. However, screening level data, even if they indicated a problem, were not sufficient to restrict the use of a compound. \nIn 1986, 2003, 2005, and in 2011 EPA issued regulations to amend and update the TSCA inventory.\n\nAs of April 2010, about 84,000 chemicals were on the TSCA inventory, per a GAO report. TSCA Section 4 gives EPA the authority to demand chemical testing.\n\nIn 1982, U.S. manufacturers, processors, and importers of 75 chemicals that the International Agency for Research on Cancer had found to cause cancers in animals, but the carcinogenicity of which in humans was uncertain, were surveyed. Only for 13 of the 75 chemicals had epidemiologic studies on human health been completed or were in progress. Eighteen of the 75 were HPV chemicals and only for eight HPV chemicals had epidemiologic studies been completed or were in progress. The largest number of chemicals (19) were drugs, and none of them had been epidemiologically studied. Seven chemicals that had been studied were used as pesticides.\n\nIn 1997 the Environmental Defense Fund reported in “Toxic Ignorance” results of its analysis of the availability of basic health test data on HPV chemicals that only 29% of the HPV chemicals in the US met minimum data requirements.\nIn 1998 the EPA published a report CHEMICAL HAZARD DATA AVAILABILITY STUDY showing \"55% of TRI chemicals have had full SIDS testing, while only 7% of other chemicals have full test data\". They wrote \n\"...of the 830 companies making HPV chemicals in the US, 148 companies have NO SIDS data available on their chemicals; an additional 459 companies sell products for which, on average, half or less of SIDS tests are available. Only 21 companies (or 3% of the 830 companies) have all SIDS tests available for their chemicals. The basic set of test data costs about $200,000 per chemical.\"\nIn 1999, the European Union (EU) published a study about how many EU-HPV chemicals were publicly available in a comprehensive chemical data base called IUCLID: Only 14% of the EU-HPV chemicals had data at the level of the base-set, 65% had less than base-set, and 21% had no data available. The authors concluded, \"more data [were] publicly available than most previous studies\" had shown.\n\nIn 2004, one of the partners in EPA's HPV Challenge Program assessed 532 up to then unsponsored chemicals, whether they were \"orphaned\" or not, and found:\nSince 2009, the EPA required companies to perform toxicity testing on merely 34 chemicals. In 2011, the EPA announced, but as of 2013 had yet to finalize, plans to require testing for 23 additional chemicals, so altogether 57 chemicals. The EPA has prioritized 83 chemicals for risk assessment, and initiated seven assessments in 2012, with plans to start 18 additional assessments in 2013 and 2014.\nIn 2007, EPA began Toxcast which uses \"automated chemical screening technologies (called \"high-throughput screening assays\") to expose living cells or isolated proteins to chemicals\"., \n\nIn 2009, EPA reported that it developed a system called ACToR (Aggregated Computational Toxicology Resource) to expose living cells or isolated proteins to chemicals. It pooled chemical research, data and screening tools from multiple federal agencies including the National Toxicology Program/ National Institute of Environmental Health Science, National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences and the Food and Drug Administration. \n\n"}
{"id": "3765471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3765471", "title": "Hot runner", "text": "Hot runner\n\nA hot runner system is an assembly of heated components used in plastic injection molds that inject molten plastic into the cavities of the mold. (The cavities are the part of the mold shaped like the parts to be produced.)\n\nBy contrast, a cold runner is simply a channel formed between the two halves of the mold, for the purpose of carrying plastic from the injection molding machine nozzle to the cavities. Each time the mold opens to eject the newly formed plastic parts, the material in the runner is ejected as well, resulting in waste. A hot runner system usually includes a heated manifold and a number of heated nozzles. The main task of the manifold is to distribute the plastic entering the mold to the various nozzles which then meter it precisely to the injection points in the cavities.\n\nHot runner systems were first developed and came into sporadic use in the early 60s with generally negative results. They gained popularity in the 80s and 90s as technological advancements allowed improved reliability and the escalation of plastic materials prices made hot runner systems more desirable and cost effective. Hot runners are fairly complicated systems, they have to maintain the plastic material within them heated uniformly, while the rest of the injection mold is being cooled in order to solidify the product quickly. For this reason they are usually assembled from components pre manufactured by specialized companies. \n\nA hot runner controller is a temperature controller used to control the temperature in the hot runner. This helps create the most consistent part(s).\n\nHot runners usually make the mold more expensive to manufacture and run, but allow savings by reducing plastic waste and by reducing the cycle time. (do not have to wait until the conventional runners freeze).\n\n"}
{"id": "52171258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52171258", "title": "ISO 22715", "text": "ISO 22715\n\nThe ISO 22715 standard provides guidelines for manufacturers in the best practices for cosmetic packaging and labelling of all cosmetic products. This standard applies to products that fall under the category of cosmetics that are sold or given away as free samples. ISO 22715 was initially published in April 2006.\n\nThe intent of Standard ISO 22715 is to specify how cosmetic products should be packaged and labeled to maintain a certain level of standards within the cosmetic industry. This standard applies to cosmetic products whether the product is sold or given away. It is one of 26 published standards that are devoted to the cosmetic industry sector.\n\nISO 22715 does not regulate what products are to be considered cosmetic. This determination is left to the national regulations of those countries that follow the ISO 22715 and use it as a guide to best practices for packaging and labeling cosmetic products. Often, these national regulations are stricter than those provided in the standard are.\n\nISO 22715 supports the need for consumers to know what is in the cosmetic products they purchase, how those products should be used and who has manufactured the products. To accomplish this, 22715 specifies that a product’s packaging should show certain information such as the ingredients used in the product listed in descending order according to the percentage of each ingredient in the product. A list of coloring agents used in the product then follows the list of ingredients.\n\nFor safety purposes, ISO recommends including an explanation of what the product function is on the package, along with instructions for its use. Any precautionary or warning statements should also be printed on the package to caution consumers in the use of said product. Additional information that should appear on the packaging of cosmetic products includes:\n\n\nThe International Organization for Standardization (ISO) was formed in 1947. It is a non-governmental organization (NGO) that is based in Geneva, Switzerland. The ISO has 162 members and the organization represents the interest of international standards of 196 countries. This represents almost 97 percent of the world’s population.\n\nThe ISO’s purpose is to create standards that are used to help form public policies and business objectives that benefit people throughout the world. Since May 2016, there has been over 21,500 ISO standards published. The ISO develops new standards when industry sectors and their stakeholders determine that a need exists. The standards are developed under the oversight of the ISO through cooperative efforts between other NGOs, consumer organizations, representatives from government agencies, academics and testing laboratories.\n\nISO 22715 is not legally binding, but it is the common denominator used for developing national regulations that address the labeling and packaging of cosmetic products. Regulators in individual countries often look to ISO standards as the benchmark for best practices for the different industry sectors in which they apply. Many regulators require businesses and manufacturers to comply with applicable ISO standards, in addition to local regulations.\n\nCurrently, there are 26 published ISO standards devoted to the cosmetic sector, including ISO 22715. These standards are overseen by the ISO’s cosmetic product technical committee that was established in 1998. This committee is composed of standardization bodies from major markets, such as leading ASEAN countries, most European counties and the United States via ANSI. Thirty-nine countries participate in the creation of standards for cosmetic products, with 27 observing countries within the committee.\n\nTo better distribute and update standards as needed, the ISO maintains the copyright on its standards. Most standards are reviewed and updated every five to seven years to remain relevant to the latest technologies within industry sectors.\n\nOften, local regulations may exceed the requirements specified in ISO 22715. In the United States, the Food & Drug Administration (FDA) regulates the cosmetic industry with standards that are provided by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), in which the FDA is member.\n\nIn the European Union, cosmetic manufacturers must abide by Regulation (EC) No. 1223/2009 Article 19 for the labeling of cosmetic products.\n\n"}
{"id": "39985122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39985122", "title": "Irina Schrotter", "text": "Irina Schrotter\n\nIrina Schrotter (born 1965 in Iași) is a Romanian fashion designer and businessperson.\n\nShe studied to become a physician, but in 1990, one year after graduating, she decided to go into the fashion business. In 2008 her company employed 1,000 people. In the same year, her main brand had revenues of 3.5 million euros, but dropped to 2.5 million euros after the financial crisis hit Romania in 2009. According to a 2013 article in \"Der Tagesspiegel\", she is \"Romania's most successful fashion designer\". She participated in the Berlin Fashion Week in 2012 and 2013.\n\nIn 2008 she ran as an independent to become mayor of Iași, but withdrew her candidacy before the election.\n\n"}
{"id": "30793200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30793200", "title": "Issamar Ginzberg", "text": "Issamar Ginzberg\n\nIssamar Ginzberg is a business strategy and marketing consultant. He is the founder and CEO of Monetized Intellect Consulting, a business and marketing firm with offices in New York City and Jerusalem. Ginzberg also founded English Speaking Entrepreneurs Israel (ESEI), an organization that assists English-speaking businessmen in adjusting to the Israeli business market. \n\nGinzberg, a rabbi, has conducted seminars on marketing in the U.S. and Israel,\n\nHe has written for \"The Jerusalem Post\", \"Hamodia\", and \"The English Update\". He has written several books, including \"How Marketers Mess With Your,\" \"Marketing Secrets that Are Used to Get Your Attention\" and \"How To Use Them To Your Advantage\". Ginzberg wrote the foreword to \"Everything You Need to Know About Buying Real Estate in Israel by Shia Getter\".\n"}
{"id": "36989824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36989824", "title": "Jefferson Riverport International", "text": "Jefferson Riverport International\n\nJefferson Riverport International (commonly called Riverport) is a planned industrial community on the Ohio River, home to companies engaged in manufacturing or distribution. It is one of the few inland industrial/port sites in the nation with single-line haul by three railroads: CSX, Norfolk Southern and Paducah & Louisville. It was established in the mid-1970s.\nCompanies in Riverport are in fields such as plastics molding and fabrication; steel processing; manufacturing liquid filtration systems and specialty pipe; acrylic resin and polymer emulsion production; stamping and assembly for the appliance industry; manufacturing custom fiberglass products for industry; clothing manufacturing; steel stamping and slitting; tool and die manufacturing and repair; design, production and installation of fiber optic cable support systems. A number of companies are also related to distribution or are international.\n\nForeign Trade Zone #29, with Customs clearance in Louisville, is for manufacturing or distribution firms to develop internationally.\n\nThe FTZ encompasses the intermodal port site and the industrial park. The zone includes buildings for manufacturing and warehousing. Breakbulk and containerized shipments are both handled. Companies can use the zone's general purpose zone warehouses or use all or some of their own building. Companies in the park have used over one million square feet of FTZ space.\nThis list of current companies is incomplete.\n"}
{"id": "798685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=798685", "title": "Joel Spolsky", "text": "Joel Spolsky\n\nAvram Joel Spolsky (born 1965) is a software engineer and writer. He is the author of \"Joel on Software\", a blog on software development, and the creator of the project management software Trello. He was a Program Manager on the Microsoft Excel team between 1991 and 1994. He later founded Fog Creek Software in 2000 and launched the \"Joel on Software\" blog. In 2008, he launched the Stack Overflow programmer Q&A site in collaboration with Jeff Atwood. Using the Stack Exchange software product which powers Stack Overflow, the Stack Exchange Network now hosts over 170 Q&A sites.\n\nSpolsky was born to Jewish parents and grew up in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and lived there until he was 15. He then moved with his family to Israel, where he attended high school and completed his military service in the Paratroopers Brigade. He was one of the founders of the kibbutz Hanaton in Lower Galilee. In 1987, he returned to the United States to attend college. He studied at the University of Pennsylvania for a year before transferring to Yale University, where he was a member of Pierson College and graduated in 1991 with a BS \"summa cum laude\" in Computer Science.\n\nSpolsky started working at Microsoft in 1991 as a Program Manager on the Microsoft Excel team, where he designed Excel Basic and drove Microsoft's Visual Basic for Applications strategy. He moved to New York City in 1995 where he worked for Viacom and Juno Online Services. In 2000, he founded Fog Creek Software and created the \"Joel on Software\" blog. \"Joel on Software\" was \"one of the first blogs set up by a business owner\".\n\nIn 2005, Spolsky co-produced and appeared in \"\", a documentary documenting Fog Creek's development of Project Aardvark, a remote assistance tool.\n\nSpolsky also co-founded Stack Overflow, a question and answer community website for software developers, with Jeff Atwood. He is now CEO of the resulting Stack Overflow and the Stack Exchange Network.\n\nIn 2011, Spolsky launched Trello, an online project management tool inspired by Kanban methodology.\n\nIn 2016, Spolsky announced the appointment of Anil Dash as Fog Creek Software's new CEO, with Spolsky continuing as Stack Overflow's CEO and as a Fog Creek Software board member.\n\nHe is the author of five books, including \"User Interface Design for Programmers\" and \"Smart and Gets Things Done\". He is also the creator of \"The Joel Test\".\n\nSpolsky coined the term \"fix it twice\" for a process improvement method. It implies a quick, immediate solution for fixing an incident and a second, slower fix for preventing the same problem from occurring again by targeting the root cause. His use of the term \"Shlemiel the painter's algorithm\", referring to an algorithm that is not scalable due to performing too many redundant actions, was described by \"salon.com\"'s Scott Rosenberg as an example of good writing \"about their insular world in a way that wins the respect of their colleagues and the attention of outsiders.\"\n\nSpolsky recently made an appearance at the WeAreDevelopers Conference 2017, stating how developers are writing the script for the future. In his speech, Spolsky talks about how software is eating the world, how it is becoming more evident in everyday life as people interact with more software on a day-to-day basis, and how developers are helping to shape how the world will work as technology keeps evolving. He uses the metaphor \"we are just little vegetables floating in software soup\", referring to our constant use of software for the most mundane activities, including work, social networking, and even taking a cab.\n\nSpolsky announced his marriage to his husband, Jared, on social media and his blog. He lives on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.\n\nIn software development, a \"Shlemiel the painter's algorithm\" (sometimes, \"Shlemiel the painter algorithm\", not to be confused with \"[[Painter's algorithm]]\") is a method that is inefficient because the programmer has overlooked some fundamental issues at the very [[High and low level|lowest levels]] of [[software design]]. The term was coined in 2001 by Spolsky, who used a [[Yiddish]] joke to illustrate a certain poor programming practice: Schlemiel (also rendered Shlemiel) is to paint the dotted lines down the middle of a road. Each day, Schlemiel paints less than he painted the day before, and complains that it is because each day he gets farther away from the paint can, and it takes him longer to go back and put paint on his brush.\n\nThe inefficiency to which Spolsky was drawing an analogy was the poor programming practice of repeated [[concatenation]] of [[C (programming language)|C]]-style [[null-terminated string]]s. The first step in every implementation of the [[C standard library]] function for concatenating strings is determining the length of the first string by checking each character to see if it is the terminating [[null character]]. Next, the second string is copied to the end of the first.\n\nIn Spolsky's example, the \"Schlemiels\" occur when multiple strings are concatenated together:\n\nAfter \"Paul\" has been appended to \"John\", the length of \"JohnPaul\" (or, more precisely, the position of the terminating null character) is known within the [[Scope (programming)|scope]] of codice_1 but is discarded upon the end of function. Afterwards, when codice_2 is told to append \"George\" to \"JohnPaul\", codice_2 starts at the very first character of \"JohnPaul\" (which is \"J\") all over again just to find the terminating null character. Each subsequent call to codice_2 has to compute the length again before concatenating another name to the codice_5. Analogous to Schlemiel not carrying the paint bucket (or the string's length) with him, all the subsequent codice_2s have to \"walk\" the length of the string again to determine where the second string should be copied. As more data is added to codice_5 with each call to codice_2, that terminating null character also gets farther away from the beginning, meaning subsequent calls are increasingly slower.\n\nThe problems illustrated by Spolsky's example are not noticed by a programmer who is using a high-level language and has little or no understanding of how the language implementation works, including some basic knowledge of its underlying principles and functions. \"Some of the biggest mistakes people make even at the highest architectural levels come from having a weak or broken understanding of a few simple things at the very lowest levels.\"\n\n\n\n\n[[Category:1965 births]]\n[[Category:American emigrants to Israel]]\n[[Category:Israeli bloggers]]\n[[Category:American bloggers]]\n[[Category:Living people]]\n[[Category:People from Albuquerque, New Mexico]]\n[[Category:American computer programmers]]\n[[Category:American technology writers]]\n[[Category:American computer businesspeople]]\n[[Category:Israeli businesspeople]]\n[[Category:Microsoft employees]]\n[[Category:University of Pennsylvania alumni]]\n[[Category:Yale University alumni]]\n[[Category:Jewish American writers]]\n[[Category:Jewish bloggers]]\n[[Category:American Jews]]\n[[Category:LGBT businesspeople from the United States]]\n[[Category:LGBT people from New Mexico]]\n[[Category:LGBT Jews]]\n[[Category:21st-century American non-fiction writers]]"}
{"id": "420107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=420107", "title": "John D. Rockefeller III", "text": "John D. Rockefeller III\n\nJohn Davison Rockefeller III (March 21, 1906 – July 10, 1978) was a philanthropist and third-generation member of the prominent Rockefeller family. He was the eldest son of the philanthropists John D. Rockefeller Jr. and Abby Aldrich Rockefeller. His siblings were Abby, Nelson, Laurance, Winthrop and David.\n\nLike his sister Abby, John III eventually settled on philanthropy as his major interest. His brothers Nelson and Winthrop devoted themselves to politics while Laurance went into conservation and David went into banking. He was a major force behind the establishment of the Council on Foundations, the Foundation Center and Independent Sector. He took a leading role in organizing the Commission on Foundations and Private Philanthropy (better known as the Peterson Commission) and the Commission on Private Philanthropy and Public Needs (better known as the Filer Commission). He also made the initial donation to support Yale University's Program on Non-Profit Organizations, the first academic research center to focus on nonprofits.\n\nIn addition to his interest in philanthropy, Rockefeller made major commitments to supporting organizations related to East Asian affairs, including the Institute of Pacific Relations, the Asia Society, and the Japan Society. He was also a major supporter of the Population Council.\n\nJohn Davison Rockefeller III was born in New York City on March 21, 1906, to the philanthropists John Davison Rockefeller Jr. (1874–1960) and Abigail Greene \"Abby\" Aldrich (1874–1948). He had four younger brothers, Nelson, Winthrop, Laurance and David, and an elder sister, Abby. Through his father, he was a grandson of Standard Oil co-founder John Davison Rockefeller Sr. and schoolteacher Laura Celestia \"Cettie\" Spelman. Through his mother, he was a grandson of Senator Nelson Wilmarth Aldrich and Abigail Pearce Truman \"Abby\" Chapman. He received his preparatory education at the Browning School in New York City and the Loomis Chaffee School, Windsor, Connecticut, in 1925. He went to Princeton University where he received high honors in economics and graduated in 1929 with the degree of Bachelor of Science, choosing industrial relations as the subject of his senior thesis. His interest in industrial relations stemmed from the family's role in the Ludlow Massacre, in which strikebreakers and security guards killed women and children of miners striking against the Rockefeller-controlled Colorado Fuel and Iron Company. Rockefeller's father worked to restore the family's public reputation by championing industrial relations and the work of William Lyon Mackenzie King, a pioneer in the field.\n\nCommencing a lifelong commitment to international relations, he undertook a world tour after graduating from college, which concluded with assignments for the Institute of Pacific Relations conference in Japan.\n\nJohn III was the next Rockefeller manager for all family undertakings of social relevance. Since 1929, in total he sat on twenty boards of various institutions, most of which were family-related. The more notable of these were:\n\nJohn III was at one time a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, the Foreign Policy Association and the Institute of Pacific Relations, as well as being on the board of directors of Princeton University. In late 1950, he accompanied secretary of state John Foster Dulles and Douglas MacArthur on a trip to Japan to conclude a peace treaty, during which time he consulted with many Japanese leaders in practically every important sphere of that country's life.\n\nHe was a prominent third-generation family philanthropist in his own right and founder of the Asia Society, the major institution he established in 1956 to foster greater cooperation between Asia and the United States. He also founded the Population Council in 1952, and a reconstituted Japan Society. In addition, he set up the United Negro College Fund for the ongoing education of African Americans, carrying on the family tradition in this area with his grandfather's funding of the education of black women at Spelman College in Atlanta.\n\nHe was on his father's Advisory Committee in the family office, Room 5600. He was also president of the family's principal philanthropy run by family members, the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, from its inception in 1940 to 1956. In 1929, he joined the family's renowned Rockefeller Foundation; elected to the board in 1931 he subsequently became chairman of this major philanthropic organization for twenty years and was responsible for changing the focus of the institution.\n\nThe principal philanthropic institution he created was the JDR III Fund in 1963, its major program being the Asian Cultural Program, created in 1967 to encourage East-West cultural exchange. The Fund was wound-up upon his death in 1979, but the Cultural Program continued as the Asian Cultural Council, which has provided grant assistance to more than 4,000 Asians and Americans in the area of the arts. Funding for its programs is derived from a combination of endowment income and contributions from individuals, foundations and corporations in the United States and Asia. \n\nIn the mid-1950s, John III assumed the leadership of a committee of civic leaders who were working to create Lincoln Center. He became the key figure in the fund-raising efforts and in forging a consensus among the civic leaders and others who were essential to its success. The Center itself was built over a period from 1959 to 1966. He was its first president, commencing in 1956, and he became its chairman in 1961. He was chairman until 1970 when he was duly elected honorary chairman.\n\nIn the late 1960s, Rockefeller III was responsible for the creation of the Commission on Foundations and Private Philanthropy (usually known as the Peterson Commission, headed by Peter G. Peterson) and the Commission on Private Philanthropy and Public Needs (usually known as the Filer Commission). He established the Rockefeller Public Service Awards in 1958. In 1959, he received The Hundred Year Association of New York's Gold Medal Award \"in recognition of outstanding contributions to the City of New York\". In 1976, he received the S. Roger Horchow Award for Greatest Public Service by a Private Citizen, an award given out annually by Jefferson Awards. Rockefeller College at Princeton University was named in his honor in 1982.\n\nOn November 11, 1932, he married the socially connected Blanchette Ferry Hooker (1909–1992), who was to serve as chairman of the Asian Cultural Council from 1980 to 1990, and who established the Blanchette H. Rockefeller Fellowship Fund, in Japan. They had one son and three daughters:\n\n\nJohn Davison Rockefeller III was killed in an automobile accident in Mount Pleasant, New York, (near the Rockefeller family estate in Pocantico), on July 10, 1978, at the age of 72. He was buried at the Rockefeller Family Cemetery in Sleepy Hollow, New York.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1251113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1251113", "title": "John Franklyn Mars", "text": "John Franklyn Mars\n\nJohn Franklyn Mars, KBE (born October 15, 1935) is an American businessman. As of January 2018, Mars had a net worth of $28.1 billion, making him the 32nd-richest person in the world (tied with his sister Jacqueline).\n\nJohn Franklyn Mars was born on October 15, 1935. He is the son of Audrey Ruth (Meyer) and Forrest Mars, Sr., and grandson of Frank C. Mars, founders of the American candy company Mars, Incorporated. Mars graduated from the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Connecticut in 1953 and Yale University.\n\nAs a member of the Mars family, his share of the company and other assets were worth US$10 billion in September 2010, making him the 52nd richest person in the world and the 26th richest person in America, according to \"Forbes\". As of October 2012, Mars is listed as the 30th richest person in the world with an estimated net worth of 20.1 billion.\nAccording to Hurun Global Rich List 2015 he is 28th richest person in the world with a net worth of US$26 billion.\nIn 2016 his net worth went up to 29 billion and is listed the 19th richest person in the world.\nIn January 2017, he reportedly paid $7.7 billion for VCA, Inc, a pet care company.\n\nHe married Adrienne Bevis in June 1958. They have three children: Linda Anne Mars born , Frank Edward Mars born , and Michael John Mars born .\n\nHe formerly lived in Fairfax County, Virginia but now resides in Jackson, Wyoming. In the 2010 to 2014 Forbes ranking of personal wealth, Mars is the highest ranked person whose photograph was unavailable to the magazine.\n\nIn March 2015, Queen Elizabeth II awarded him an honorary knighthood at Windsor Castle.\n\n"}
{"id": "11055061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11055061", "title": "Journal of International Business Studies", "text": "Journal of International Business Studies\n\nThe Journal of International Business Studies is a double blind peer-reviewed academic journal and the official publication of the Academy of International Business. It is published by Palgrave Macmillan and covers research on international business. The journal was established in 1970 and is edited by Alain Verbeke (University of Calgary). According to the Journal Citation Reports its 2016 impact factor is 5.869.\n\n\nAs of January 2011, the top 5 most cited articles were:\n\nThe \"JIBS Decade Award\" was established in 1996 to recognize the most influential paper published in the volume a decade prior. The award is sponsored by Palgrave Macmillan. A selection committee evaluates the five most cited papers published in the volume of the year concerned and decides on the most influential paper. A special session is held at the Academy of International Business annual conference including a retrospective presentation from the award winner in addition to additional commentary. In 2009, the Decade Award was extended to include the 1970-1985 volumes of the journal, which had not previously been included.\n\n"}
{"id": "37125397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37125397", "title": "Judaeus Bohemus Abraham", "text": "Judaeus Bohemus Abraham\n\nJudaeus Bohemus Abraham (died 1533 ) was a Czech/Polish tax collector, banker and royal factor. In 1512 King Sigismund I the Old entrusted him with the Jewish tax collection in Wielkopolska and Mazovia. In 1514 he agreed to do it throughout the Crown, and in 1518 was given the privilege to settle in any place and conduct business. After the withdrawal from the service of the royals he settled in Lviv, where he worked in the trade and credit.\n"}
{"id": "45004008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45004008", "title": "Kwee family", "text": "Kwee family\n\nThe Kwee family is a Singaporean family that owns the Pontiac Land Group, a privately held luxury real estate developer and hotel owner based in Singapore. The Kwee brothers Kwee Liong Keng, Kwee Liong Tek, Kwee Liong Seen and Kwee Liong Phing collectively run the group.\n\nHenry Kwee Hian Liong, father of the Kwee brothers, was an Indonesian textile trader and real estate developer who emigrated to Singapore in 1958. He founded Kwee Inc. Pte Ltd in 1959 and the Pontiac Land Group (PLG) in 1961. Henry Kwee passed away in 1988.\n\nKwee Liong Keng is the eldest of the Kwee brothers and serves as the managing director of PLG. Kwee Liong Keng is married to Chua Lee Eng, from the Chua family that founded Cycle and Carriage.He also served as Singapore's Non-Resident Ambassador to the Republic of Poland, among other public service positions. Kwee Liong Tek is the chairman of the Group. Brothers Kwee Liong Seen and Kwee Liong Phing are both directors on the board.\n\nThe Kwee brothers via Pontiac Land Group own several luxury hotels in Singapore including Regent Singapore, Ritz-Carlton Millenia, the Conrad Centennial Singapore, and The Capella Singapore, as well as office blocks and malls, such as Capitol Piazza, the Millenia Tower and the Centennial Tower. PLG also developed and manage the Camden Medical Centre.\n\nIn October 2013, the Kwee brothers agreed to provide $300 million in equity, supported by an $860 million loan from a consortium of Asian banks to enable the Tower Verre development in New York City. This is PLG's first major foray outside of Singapore amidst the tightening property market on the island state. The Kwees are also redeveloping 2 of Sydney's historic sandstone buildings into a 240-room luxury hotel.\n\nThird generation of Kwees are represented by Evan Kwee, son of Kwee Liong Tek and maternal grandson of George Aratani. Evan Kwee is a director of Pontiac Land Group and the executive director of Capella Hotel Group Asia, and is married to Claudia Sondakh. His older sister Melissa Kwee is a social activist and chief executive officer of the National Volunteer & Philanthropy Centre in Singapore. She is also a director on Pontiac Land Group. One of their cousins, Leland Kwee, is a director of Patina Hotels and Resorts, and investor.\n\nKwee Liong Keng's daughters Kwee Wei Lin and Kwee Su-Lin both hold senior positions at PLG.\n\nAccording to \"Forbes\", the Kwee family have a net worth of $5.3 billion, as of July 2017. The Kwee brothers reside in Singapore. The family support educational causes, arts and cultural causes, social causes and humanitarian causes.\n"}
{"id": "33777964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33777964", "title": "Liquid Roofing and Waterproofing Association", "text": "Liquid Roofing and Waterproofing Association\n\nThe Liquid Roofing and Waterproofing Association (LRWA) is a UK member organisation of manufacturers of liquid applied coatings for buildings. The association's aim is to educate and inform specifiers, contractors, and the industry as to the properties, correct applications, installation methods, and aftercare of liquid waterproofing systems.\n\nThe association was formed in the 1970s and was originally known as the BRCMA (Bituminous Roof Coating Manufacturers Association). The primary purpose of the association was to promote good practice in all areas of the UK bituminous roof coatings industry.\n\nThe late 1980s and early 1990s saw the rise in popularity of non-bituminous products and in particular liquid roofing.\n\nRecognising this trend, the association reinvented itself as ELRA (European Liquid Roofing Association), now focusing solely on liquid roofing systems. The 'European' tag reflected the associations involvement in the drafting of European standards for all areas of liquid roofing.\n\nIn 2005 a second reinvention took place as ELRA became ELWA (European Liquid Waterproofing Association) in recognition of the wider applications for liquid waterproofing products, for example the protection and waterproofing of car park decks.\n\nIn 2010 the association identified a need for an industry voice for liquid roofing, which was and remains the fastest growing sector of the roofing market in the UK. The 'European' label was dropped as the association re-launched as LRWA (Liquid Roofing and Waterproofing Association).\n\nLRWA members fall into one of three categories:\n\nMembrane manufacturers\n\nUK manufacturers (and wholly owned subsidiaries) of liquid applied waterproofing products. LRWA's membrane manufacturers membership includes 90% of the UK Liquid Roofing market.\n\nAssociates\n\nUK manufacturers of ancillary materials and components used in conjunction with LRWA's membrane manufacturer members' liquid waterproofing systems. LRWA's Associate members' specialisms include the manufacture of thermal and acoustic insulation, vapour control layers, drainage, plant and safety equipment.\n\nContractors\n\nLRWA's Contractor membership is made up of UK roofing contractors approved or licensed to receive and install the products of LRWA's manufacturer members.\n\n\n\nSpecialist Apprentice Programme- LRWA's specialist course designed to train roofing contractors / future roofers in the installation of liquid waterproofing systems.\n\nRIBA-Approved-Online-CPD - Online educational seminar - approved by RIBA - aimed at specifiers, architects, and surveyors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46474949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46474949", "title": "Marketfield Street", "text": "Marketfield Street\n\nMarketfield Street is a short one-way, one-block-long alleyway in the Financial District of Manhattan, New York City. The street begins as a southern branch of Beaver Street, then veers east and north, ending at Broad Street. Alternative past names include Exchange Street, Field Street, Fieldmarket Street, Oblique Road, and Petticoat Lane.\n\nThe name Marketfield Street is a translation from the Dutch. The street originally ran to the Dutch livestock market, \"Marcktveldt\", located near where Battery Park is now, which was then outside the walls of the city. The market operated from 1638 to 1647. In 1641, the Governor-General of New Netherland, Willem Kieft, opened the colony's first cattle market there. \n\nBy 1680, mainly poor people were living on Marketfield Street. In 1688, the city's first French Huguenot church was built there.\n\nIn September 1776, Marketfield Street was part of the area devastated by the Great Fire of New York, which engulfed the southwestern tip of Manhattan. In 1821, a hurricane hit the East Coast, destroying the street's dock. In 1821, Marketfield Street, which overlooked the Hudson River, had a single name throughout its length, but by the 1830s, the street was renamed \"Battery Place\" from Bowling Green to the Hudson River. The 1882 construction of the New York City Produce Exchange demolished the block of the street that contained the French church. \n\nIn the 20th century, 70 Broad Street, between Marketfield and Beaver Street, became the headquarters of the American Bank Note Company.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "9104757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9104757", "title": "Melchor Concha y Toro", "text": "Melchor Concha y Toro\n\nMelchor de Concha y Toro (October 10, 1833 – July 21, 1892) was a Chilean businessman, lawyer, and politician, and the Marquis of Casa Concha by the Spanish Crown.\n\nSon of Melchor Santiago de Concha y Cerda and of Damiana de Toro Guzmán. Studied at the Instituto Nacional (\"National Institute\") and at the faculty of law of the University of Chile, receiving his law degree on January 17, 1857. When he entered the University of Chile Faculty of Law, he presented a historical book commended by the university titled \"Chile during the years 1824 through 1828\".\n\nHis passion being business, he became the manager of Banco Garantizador. In 1869 he was nominated Minister of Finance by Chilean President José Joaquín Pérez, until August 2, 1870.\n\nBetween 1861 and 1871 he belonged to the Conservative Party, but soon became a moderate liberal. He entered politics in 1864 after being elected representative of Melipilla. He was reelected as representative until 1886, when he was elected to the Senate representing Santiago. In 1879 he was president of the \"Bolivian Huanchaca Company\". In 1891 he resigned his post in support of the congressional side of the 1891 Chilean Civil War against then president José Manuel Balmaceda.\n\nHe died in Santiago on July 21, 1892.\n\nIn 1883, the Marquis Melchor de Concha y Toro entered the wine-making industry by deciding to plant grapevines in the Maipo River valley. He brought seeds to Chilé from the Bordeaux region of France and hired a French ethnologist Monsieur Labouchere. From this personal project, the Concha y Toro winery was born.\n\nHe constructed a mansion in 1875 in Pirque to live with his wife, Emiliana Subercaseaux. The mansion stands out by its extensive gardens and its rural Chilean style as well as some French touches.\n\n"}
{"id": "31413946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31413946", "title": "Michael Grace Phipps", "text": "Michael Grace Phipps\n\nMichael Grace Phipps (January 10, 1910 – March 13, 1973) was an American businessman, champion polo player, owner/breeder of racehorses, and a philanthropist.\n\nMichael Phipps was the son of John Shaffer Phipps and Margarita Celia Grace. He was a member of the Yale University intercollegiate championship team in both 1930 and 1932. He participated in the 1936 and 1939 International Polo Cup. A member of the Meadowbrook Polo Club on Long Island, New York, in 1938 he was elevated to a Ten Goal ranking, the highest level achievable in polo. In March 17, 1994 he was posthumously elected to the Museum of Polo and Hall of Fame.\n\nMichael Phipps studied at St. Bernard's School and St. Paul's School before going on to Yale University. Phipps became a successful investor and would serve as a vice president of his family's Bessemer Securities Corporation and sit on the board of directors of W. R. Grace and Company, a company owned by his maternal grandfather.\n\nSeveral members of the Phipps family were involved in horse racing. Most notably from the same era as Michael Phipps was his brother Hubert, a cousin Ogden, as well as his uncle Henry Carnegie Phipps whose wife was a partner in the renowned Wheatley Stable. Some of the successful Thoroughbreds owned and raced by Michael Phipps were Raja Baba and Gentleman James.\n\nMichael Phipps served on the board of directors of Hialeah Park Race Track.\n"}
{"id": "46577077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46577077", "title": "Mirta de Perales", "text": "Mirta de Perales\n\nMirta De Perales (September 2, 1922 – May 3, 2011), born Mirta Raya Casanova in Rancho Veloz, Las Villas Province, Cuba was a hairdresser, cosmetologist and businesswoman. She owned an eponymous brand, Mirta de Perales beauty care products.\n\nMirta grew up impoverished in Cuba, her parents could not even afford to buy her shoes. When she was 12 years old her mother left to work in Havana and left Mirta in charge of her brothers and sister. Having always been interested in women’s beauty and appearances, it was at that moment she discovered she could make a few cents cutting and styling her neighbors’ hair to help her family. After a few days of styling hair around her neighborhood she had earned a few dollars and called her mother to come home because they “were now rich”. \n\nShe then met Benito Perales, a pharmacist whom she’d marry. Benito helped her create the products that would eventually make her famous. She later opened her beauty salon in Havana, which grew to be one of the biggest beauty salons of Latin America.\n\nIn 1962 the Cuban government intervened and took possession of her beauty salon and took Mirta as a prisoner. She spent nine days in El Morro, a prison for those they considered anti-revolutionaries. That experience was what motivated her to leave Cuba. \n\nMirta left Cuba with her two children and only five dollars in her pocket. About one week after arriving in Miami, Florida she was already cutting and styling hair again, slowly rebuilding her clientele. After a couple of years she was able to open her beauty salon in Coral Gables, Florida. During that time she also began to redevelop her hair products. Thanks to her savvy business sense and her undeniable charisma she was able to rebuild her business and begin distributing her products in Puerto Rico. Shortly thereafter Mirta quickly began distributing her products nationwide, beginning in New York, where she was able to showcase her products in Macy’s located in Herald Square. \n\nAlways looking for a new way to connect with her audience, Mirta started her TV show “Cinco Minutos Con Mirta de Perales” (Five Minutes with Mirta de Perales). This TV show allowed Mirta to establish a relationship with her clients, explain how to use her products, and discuss day-to-day issues. At this time Mirta also created beauty contest giving children the opportunity to travel to Miami and Orlando for a week long competition to become a “Chico Mirta”. The winner of the competition would appear on Mirta’s TV show and would also have an appearance on one of Mirta’s TV commercials. \n\nMirta de Perales’ legacy was recognized by President Ronald Reagan in a ceremony at the White House wherein he claimed she was “The American Dream”. \n\nToday, Mirta’s legacy continues through her daughter, Mirta C. Perales, “Mirtica”, who as a child worked alongside her mother with everything concerning the company. Mirtica, following her mother’s footsteps, is always looking for new products and information to help fulfill women’s hair care and skincare needs, specifically focusing on the Latin woman. \n\nShe died on May 3, 2011.\n"}
{"id": "18161070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18161070", "title": "Niall McGarry", "text": "Niall McGarry\n\nNiall McGarry is an entrepreneur and the owner and founder of Joe.ie and Her.ie, male and female-focused websites in Ireland. Both websites fall under the banner of Maximum Media, the umbrella company founded by McGarry, who owns and runs both sites.\n\nMcGarry attended St. Gerald's College in Castlebar, Mayo. He then studied at Limerick Institute of Technology with rugby union player Jerry Flannery who owns 18 percent of Maximum Media.\nAfter graduating in 2002 with a degree in Marketing Management, McGarry worked for just over a year in advertising sales for a newspaper in Galway City. There, he established Impact Media in 2003. The company grew and represented clients including Supermacs, Eircom and Radisson Hotels. \nHaving grown the company to a 20-strong workforce, McGarry sold this business to Cork company H+A Marketing+PR in 2011. McGarry originally created JOE.ie in 2010, providing an online outlet for Irish males with an interest in areas like sport, tech, entertainment, motors and fashion. The site now attracts 3.1 million unique visitors a month. McGarry created Her.ie, a site that caters for Irish women in July 2012 and has achieved almost instant success, already attracting an audience of over 2.2 million unique visitors each month.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1157103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1157103", "title": "Per Georg Scheutz", "text": "Per Georg Scheutz\n\nPehr (Per) Georg Scheutz (23 September 1785 – 22 May 1873) was a 19th-century Swedish lawyer, translator, and inventor, who is now best known for his pioneering work in computer technology.\n\nScheutz studied law at Lund University, graduating in 1805. He then worked as a legal expert and translator (he translated several works of William Shakespeare and Sir Walter Scott) before turning predominantly to liberal politics and mechanical engineering.\n\nHe is most known for his inventions; the best known of these is the Scheutzian calculation engine, invented in 1837 and finalized in 1843. This machine, which he constructed with his son Edvard Scheutz, was based on Charles Babbage's difference engine. In 1851 they obtained funds from government to build an improved model, which was created in 1853 (was roughly the size of a piano), and subsequently demonstrated at the World's Fair in Paris, 1855. The machine was then sold in 1856 to the Dudley Observatory in Albany, New York. In 1857 British government ordered another model, which was built by Donkin's company in 1859.\n\nThe devices were used for creating logarithmic tables.\n\nWhile the machine was not perfect and could not produce complete tables, Martin Wiberg reworked the construction from the ground up and in 1875 created a compact device which would print complete tables.\n\nScheutz was elected a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences in 1856.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43272706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43272706", "title": "Product ecosystem theory", "text": "Product ecosystem theory\n\nProduct ecosystem theory is an emerging theory that describes how the design of manufactured products evolves over time and draws parallels with how species evolve within a natural ecosystem. Fundamental to this theory is that manufactured product lines respond to external threats and opportunities in much the same way that species respond to threats and opportunities. Competition and other environmental pressures may cause a species to become extinct. An example of the parallel in consumer products is the way in which the typewriter became displaced (or extinct) due to pressures from the personal computer. \nProducts lines can be seen to incrementally change and branch over time following the principle of phyletic gradualism. Or they can be seen to have periods of stasis followed by disruptive innovation. This follows the principle of punctuated equilibrium\n\nEcosystem Theory provides a conceptual framework that helps designers and others understand the mechanisms underpinning product innovation in a tangible and visual way. \nTechnology change is one of the environmental variables that provide both opportunity and threat for products in much the same way that environmental variables such as climate provide opportunity and threat for species.\nEvaluating designed products from this perspective is useful as it shows that the value of a product is not contained entirely within the product itself. Value is also obtained from the rest of the ecosystem.\n\nThe term was first used in this context by Tim Williams in 2013 in a paper he wrote with Marianella Chamorro-Koc. This paper proposed a methodology for understanding the difficulties of implementation for disruptive innovation based on a case study of the MIT City Car. The term has been used non-specifically prior to this on a number of occasions.\n"}
{"id": "47368919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47368919", "title": "Rahim Fazal", "text": "Rahim Fazal\n\nRahim Fazal is a Canadian-born technology entrepreneur. He is notable for co-founding Involver, a provider of social media management software. Involver was co-founded by Fazal and Noah Horton in San Francisco in 2007 and was acquired by Oracle on July 10, 2012.\n\nInvolver was the technology platform that powered the first sponsorship of a Facebook Page. Facebook partnered with Involver to build applications for large events like Election Day, the FIFA World Cup, and the Super Bowl.\n\nFazal and co-founder Horton were named to Inc. Magazine’s Top 30 Entrepreneurs Under 30 list in 2008. He received an Empact Award from Startup America and the Kauffman Foundation at the White House in 2011. He was named one of the Top 40 Under 40 by the San Francisco Business Times in 2013 and one of the Top 25 Digital Thought Leaders by iMedia.\n\nFazal is the holder of an MBA from the Ivey Business School. He was the youngest person to be accepted to the program without a pre-requisite undergraduate degree.\n"}
{"id": "3498555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3498555", "title": "Richard Pratt (Australian businessman)", "text": "Richard Pratt (Australian businessman)\n\nRichard J. Pratt (born Ryszard Przecicki; 10 December 193428 April 2009) was a prominent Australian businessman, chairman of the privately owned company Visy Industries, and a leading figure of Melbourne society. In the year before his death Pratt was Australia's fourth-richest person, with a personal fortune valued at  billion.\n\nRyszard Przecicki was born in the Free City of Danzig (present-day Gdańsk, Poland) to Jewish parents Leon and Paula on 10 December 1934. His family immigrated to Australia in 1938 seeking safe refuge from the Nazis and settled in Shepparton, Victoria, changing their surname from Przecicki to Pratt. Pratt had a rough journey travelling to Australia without getting caught by the Nazis. The family faced food shortages en route. Pratt was educated at Grahamvale Primary School, Shepparton High School and University High School and enrolled in a Bachelor of Commerce degree at the University of Melbourne in 1953. He played Australian rules football, as a ruckman. After starting his career at Lemnos (now the Shepparton Swans), Pratt played for Carlton in the Victorian Football League's (VFL) under-19s competition. He was awarded the Morrish Medal in 1953 for being deemed the \"best and fairest\" U-19 player that year. Pratt did not continue his footballing career to senior VFL level, instead focusing on other interests.\n\nPratt combined study with acting with the Union Theatre Repertory Company and working as salesman for the family business, Visy Board. After touring London and New York in 1957 with a production of Ray Lawler's \"Summer of the Seventeenth Doll\", playing the role of Johnnie Dowd, he returned to Melbourne and Visy. Following the death of his father Leon in February 1969 Pratt took over his father's business, which at that time had several hundred employees and an annual turnover of A$5 million.\n\nUnder Pratt's direction, Visy expanded from two factories in Melbourne to more than 55 plants across Australia, United States, New Zealand, and Papua New Guinea. From cardboard boxes and packaging, Visy moved into waste paper recycling. Later in the 1990s Pratt expanded his operations considerably into the New York waste paper business.\n\nIn 1993 the National Crime Authority (NCA) raided Pratt's offices in connection with an investigation into businessman John Elliott's foreign exchange dealings and Elliott's spoiling domestic stake in Broken Hill Proprietary Company (BHP, now BHP Billiton) while Elliott's company, Elders IXL, was insolvent. The following year, NCA paid costs and returned documents seized.\n\nAlso in the 1990s, Visy was ordered by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) to pay a half million dollar fine for illegal anti-competitive behaviour.\n\nAs well as his business interests, Pratt was known for his involvement in public service, having held posts including: foundation chancellor of Swinburne University of Technology, president of the Victorian Arts Centre Trust, and Chairman of the Board of Management of the Mental Health Research Institute of Victoria.\n\nThrough the Pratt Foundation, the Pratt family are among Australia's leading philanthropists donating up to A$10 million a year. Pratt was named Environmental Visionary of the Year in 1998 by the Keep Australia Beautiful Campaign.\n\nOn 8 February 2007 he was appointed president of the Carlton Football Club. On 20 June 2008, the Carlton Football Club announced that Richard Pratt would stand aside from the club until the charges of giving false and misleading evidence to Australian Competition and Consumer Commission hearing were resolved.\n\nPratt also donated considerable funds to both major political parties (for example A$300,000 in Financial Year 2004-5), as well as to former Australian Prime Minister John Howard's Liberal government.\n\nIn 1996 an investigation by \"The Australian\" newspaper documented from internal company documents that Pratt maintained a multimillion-dollar network of advisors. This included an $8,333.33 a month fee to Bob Hawke for consultation on \"Asian and government matters\", $27,220.03 for travel to the US for Gough Whitlam as business advisor on overseas markets, and other sums for former state premiers Nick Greiner and Rupert Hamer.\n\nIn 1959, Richard Pratt married Jeanne (née Lasker), a journalist, who was also a Jewish immigrant from Poland and was born in the town of lowich in Poland 1936, and before their marriage lived in Sydney. After the success of Visy Industries, they enjoyed a lavish lifestyle, with a private jet and a range of apartments, including a penthouse at the Sherry-Netherland Hotel in New York City; their main home was the historic mansion Raheen, in the Melbourne suburb of Kew, the former residence of Roman Catholic Archbishop Daniel Mannix. The Pratts have had three children, Anthony, Heloise Waislitz, who was married to businessman and Collingwood Football club Vice President Alex Waislitz, and Fiona Geminder.\n\nAnother daughter, Paula, was born in 1997 to his longtime mistress, socialite Shari-Lea Hitchcock. In 2000 this affair became the subject of widespread media attention owing to a court case involving Ms Hitchcock and a nanny hired to look after her daughter. At the time, Pratt was accused of trying to pay hush money to the nanny who had launched legal action against Ms Hitchcock.\n\nPratt was the godfather of Deborah Beale, who is the former wife of Bill Shorten and daughter of Julian Beale.\n\nAfter a well-publicised battle with prostate cancer, Richard Pratt died at his Kew residence on 28 April 2009, the day after all charges against him had been dropped due to his ill-health.\n\nHe donated A$10 million every year through the Pratt Foundation to refugees, artists and others. The Foundation was established in 1978 by Jeanne and Richard Pratt as a vehicle for their philanthropy. During the 1980s and 1990s, the Pratts became known in Australia for funding the arts, medical research and higher education. Since then the Pratt family has donated about A$200 million to worthy causes.\n\nIn December 2005 the ACCC commenced a civil penalty proceeding against Visy companies, Pratt, and others, for alleged involvement in a cartel in the packaging industry.\n\nOn 10 October 2007, Pratt was formally accused of price fixing, cheating customers and companies out of approximately A$700 million in the nation's biggest-ever cartel case.\n\nThe ACCC alleged \"very serious contraventions\" of the law and that these had been \"carefully and deliberately concealed\" by Visy senior executives. The ACCC counsel further stated:\"\"There can be no suggestion that Visy acted in ignorance of its obligations under the act\"\"\nand further added that the deliberate use of pre-paid mobile phones that could not be traced and the holding of meetings in private homes, motel rooms and suburban parks\n\"\"...provides a strong indication that Visy was fully aware that the conduct was illegal\".\"\n\nAfter more than a year of denials Pratt subsequently admitted his guilt, acknowledging he and his company, and \"rival\" company Amcor deliberately broke the law. Pratt was aggrieved by the criminal prosecution and its effect on his reputation, stating:\n\"\"I feel very angry—Visy is seen as Richard Pratt's company—there is a certain amount of character assassination for me personally because I am a tall poppy in the community; it's a big scalp (for the ACCC). My reputation is something I have been building for 50 years and so I am worried that the general public will now see me as a rich person who has made his money doing something that is wrong in the eyes of the law.\"\"\n\nOn 2 November 2007, Pratt and the Visy group received an A$36 million fine, representing both the largest fine in Australian history and an estimated 0.75% of the Pratt fortune. Federal Court judge Justice Heerey said Pratt and his senior executives were knowingly concerned in the cartel, which involved price fixing and market sharing. \"This is the worst cartel to come before the courts in 30-plus years\", Justice Heerey said. Additionally, customers of Visy initiated claims against Visy and Amcor, including a $120 million suit by Cadbury Schweppes against Amcor.\n\nOn 19 June 2008, Pratt was charged with lying about his knowledge of a price-fixing scandal. Pratt had been facing four separate charges under Section 5 of the Act, the penalty for each charge ranges from a fine of $2,200 to 12 months' jail.\n\nOn 27 April 2009, this criminal prosecution of Pratt for charges of impropriety (lying to the ACCC during its successful investigation into the Visy/Amcor price fixing scandal) were abandoned on account of his poor health and impending death. However, Commonwealth Prosecutor Mark Dean SC told the Federal Court the Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions (CDPP) believed the prosecution would have succeeded. Pratt died the following day.\n\nPratt was appointed an Officer of the Order of Australia (AO) in 1985, and a Companion of the Order (AC) in 1998. Jeanne Pratt is also an AC recipient. However, he returned his awards in February 2008 after he was fined $36 million for price fixing.\n\nOn 16 May 2007, he was awarded the Woodrow Wilson Medal for Corporate Citizenship. This is given to executives who \"by their examples and their business practices, have shown a deep concern for the common good beyond the bottom line. They are at the forefront of the idea that private firms should be good citizens in their own neighborhoods and in the world at large\".\n\nIn April 2010, to mark the first anniversary of his death, the inaugural Richard Pratt Memorial Oration was delivered at the University of Melbourne by the president of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Professor Menahem Ben-Sasson. During the oration, Pratt was posthumously awarded an honorary Doctorate of Philosophy from Hebrew University.\n\n"}
{"id": "52623750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52623750", "title": "Rubana Huq", "text": "Rubana Huq\n\nRubana Huq is a Bangladeshi businesswoman and poet. She is a managing director of Mohammadi Group. The Group began with exporting readymade garments and then diversified into software, digital distribution, real estate, power generation and the group’s latest are has been the launch of a television channel called Nagorik. Huq was featured in BBC 100 Women in 2013 and 2014.\n\nHuq served as the CEO of TV Southasia from 2006 to 2010.\n\nHuq won the SAARC Literary Award for her poems in 2006. She wrote a book of poems \"Time of My Life\".\n\nHuq is a member of board of trustees in Asian University for Women.\n\nOn 13 August 2018, Huq was awarded PhD from Jadavpur University.\n\nHuq was married to Annisul Huq, the late mayor of Dhaka North City Corporation. Together they have three children.\n"}
{"id": "20864743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20864743", "title": "Sani Bello", "text": "Sani Bello\n\nSani Bello (born 27 November 1942) is a Nigerian businessman and retired Nigerian Army colonel and founder of the Sani Bello Foundation.\n\nSani Bello was born in 1942 at Kontagora, Niger State, the only child of Bello Mustapha and Hajiya Abu. He attended Central Primary School, Kotangora in 1950 and Government College, Bida {Niger State} in 1957, before joining the Nigerian Army in December 1962 as an officer Cadet at the Nigerian Military Training College, Kaduna. He attended Royal Military Academy Sandhurst in England and graduated as a 2nd Lieutenant in July 1965.\n\nFollowing commission he returned to Nigeria and was posted to 1st Battalion, Enugu as a Platoon Commander. He then held various posts in the Army as he progressed in ranks, including ADC to Major General Johnson Aguiyi-Ironsi, Nigeria’s first military head of state. During the Nigerian Civil War, he was a training officer at the 6th Battalion, Ikeja before he was posted to Bonny as the Sector Commander. During the war, Bello was wounded at Bonny and evacuated to Lagos for treatment, in Lagos, he served as a staff officer at the Lagos Garrison division. He was later posted to various commands including serving as Commander of the Oshodi Resettlement Center and Rear Commander of defunct Third Marine Commando division. He was also General Staff Officer and Assistant Quartermaster General of the 3rd Division. From 1971 to 1974, he was Deputy Adjutant General of the Nigerian army before becoming the Commanding Officer of the 81 Battalion, Kaduna. He retired from the Nigerian army as a Principal Staff Officer.\n\nSani Bello was also a Military Governor of the old Kano State from 1975 – 1978. During his tenure, he focused on commerce, rural roads, electrification and primary and secondary education. In 1976, he developed a Science Secondary School Management Board establishing science colleges to train Kano State residents and give them the opportunity to qualify for science courses at the university level also to climb to middle and top level grades in the government. Notable schools established during the period are Dawakin Kudu and Dawakin Tofa Science schools. His administration was also tasked to implement two key Federal programmes: local government reform and universal primary education. Local government reform led to the creation of 20 local government areas in Kano.\n\nAlfa Wali, Balarabe Ismail were SMGs in the administration, Abdu Sambo and Abdullahi Aliyu Sumaila served as the scribes (Secretary to the Executive Council) to his government.Umaru Abdulwahab was the Principal Secretary to the Governor\n\nAfter retirement in 1979, Colonel Bello held various part-time appointments as a chairman of Niger State Green Revolution, Niger State NYSC, Niger State Polytechnic and Niger State Science and Technical School Board. He also served as Nigerian High Commissioner (Ambassador) to Zimbabwe from 1984- 1986.\n\nOn his return home from Zimbabwe Bello became involved with various companies as chairman or director, including former Broadbank Nigeria Ltd, Globe Re Nigeria Ltd, Law Union and Rock Insurance Company Plc, Dantata and Sawoe Construction Company Ltd, MTN Communications Ltd, Equatel Communication Ltd, President of National Association of Indigenous Petroleum Explorers in Nigeria and Mainstream Energy Solutions ltd Nigeria. He is also a farmer and Proprietor of Mustafa Comprehensive School, Kontagora. He is a co-founder of Amni International Petroleum Development Company Ltd that has interest in Ketu and Okoro oilfields.\n\nHe is a passionate lover of sports, especially table tennis in which he once served as the Chairman of Nigerian Table Tennis Federation and led the national team to the Commonwealth and World Championships in 1983.\n"}
{"id": "53507375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53507375", "title": "Stears Business", "text": "Stears Business\n\nStears Business is a Nigerian business publication based between Lagos and London with a focus on business, economic and political news. \"Stears Business\" is published by Stears and its journalists are predominantly based in Lagos. As of September 2017, the Editor-in-Chief was Michael Famoroti.\n\nThe publication takes a neutral editorial stance in its analysis of government, free trade and globalisation as it believes in 'the value of permitting all inoffensive ideologies in informing debate'. The editorial board is composed of alumni of the London School of Economics and is particularly focused on Africa.\n"}
{"id": "30884613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30884613", "title": "The 2.0 Adoption Council", "text": "The 2.0 Adoption Council\n\nThe 2.0 Adoption Council is a free-to-join peer group of corporate leaders focused on the adoption and utilization of Enterprise 2.0 collaboration tools. The organization's stated objective is \"to gain practical insights on innovative business practices using 2.0 tools, processes and strategies for cost efficiencies in tough economic times, as well as leveraging agility for competitive advantage\". The group was founded in 2009 by industry analyst Susan Scrupski. The Council began as an independent entity and was acquired in 2010 by the Enterprise 2.0 consultancy Dachis Group.\n\nThe Council produces original research in the form of white papers and regular surveys of its members. This research is used by industry analysts to identify and interpret technology trends. Some influential Council members have taken professional positions at enterprise collaboration vendors (ex: Yammer, Moxie), which necessitated their departure from the Council due to its ongoing \"no vendors allowed\" policy.\n\nThe Council is unique in its position as a no-fee peer group focused on Enterprise 2.0. In recent years, council members have been heavily involved in the Enterprise 2.0 Conference series, leading workshops and panel discussions on enterprise collaboration and other topics of interest to practitioners. The Council has publicly presented an \"Internal Evangelist of the Year\" award yearly to a member nominated by his or her coworkers.\n\n"}
{"id": "22333304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22333304", "title": "The Committee of 200", "text": "The Committee of 200\n\nThe Committee of 200 is an invitation only membership organization of the world's most successful women entrepreneurs and corporate leaders. The Committee of 200's more than 450 members represent over 100 industries in the U.S., Europe, Asia, Canada and Latin America and its members generate more than $200 billion in annual revenues.\n\nIn 1982, a handful of the most powerful women in business gathered in Los Angeles. Their immediate goal was to raise funds for The National Association of Women Business Owners, a network dedicated to women entrepreneurs. Beyond raising $200,000 for NAWBO, the small group of women ultimately conceived a larger agenda: to create a national network that would capitalize on the experience of women at the top echelons of business.\n\nThe primary mission of C200 is success shared: to foster, celebrate and advance women's leadership in business. C200 members are uniquely connected to each other through the organization by the commonality of their careers. C200 offers current leaders access to unique programming plus a professional and personal network of their peers.\n\nThe committee takes part in reach out programs across the United States and in other select areas to MBA and college students as well as high school students. In the past they've visited colleges such as Stanford University, Tel Aviv University, University of California Los Angeles, Duke University, University of Chicago, and London Business School. C200 has also visited with high schools such as The Ann Richards School and The Young Women's Leadership School of East Harlem.\n\nIn 1987, C200 launched the C200 Foundation to provide women with tools to become successful entrepreneurs and corporate leaders. C200 co-sponsors one-day Reachouts for women MBA students. Seminars rotate among the nation’s top business schools, and at the seminar they award C200 Scholar Awards to enterprising first year women MBAs enrolled at the hosting school.\n\n"}
{"id": "1795394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1795394", "title": "The Solid Gold Cadillac", "text": "The Solid Gold Cadillac\n\nThe Solid Gold Cadillac is a 1956 film directed by Richard Quine and written by Abe Burrows, Howard Teichmann and George S. Kaufman. It was adapted from the hit Broadway play of the same name by Teichmann and Kaufman, in which they pillory big business and corrupt businessmen. The film stars Judy Holliday and Paul Douglas. The film is in black-and-white except for the very last scene, which is in Technicolor.\n\nAt a shareholders meeting for International Projects, a billion dollar corporation, John T. Blessington (John Williams) announces that he is replacing Edward L. McKeever (Paul Douglas), the company's founder, President and Chairman of the Board, who is resigning to work for the federal government in Washington D.C. Laura Partridge (Judy Holliday), a minority stockholder with just ten shares of stock, drives its arrogant, self-serving executives to distraction with her incessant questioning during this and subsequent meetings.\n\nBlessington comes up with the idea of hiring the struggling actress as Director of Shareholder Relations to keep her occupied answering letters from small shareholders. He assigns her a secretary, Amelia Shotgraven (Neva Patterson), with secret instructions to obstruct her as much as possible. The conscientious Miss Partridge, discovering there is nothing for her to do, decides to write the stockholders herself. She gains Amelia's friendship and wholehearted assistance by helping her develop a romantic relationship with office manager Mark Jenkins (Arthur O'Connell).\n\nWhen the directors find out, they fire Amelia. However, Laura discovers that Blessington's thoroughly unqualified brother-in-law, Harry Harkness (Hiram Sherman), has driven a competitor into bankruptcy, unaware that International Projects actually owns the unfortunate company. With that as leverage, she gets Amelia rehired.\n\nStill determined to neutralize Laura, the Board decides to send her to Washington to persuade McKeever to give them some government contracts. She agrees to go, with the secret intention of trying to convince him to return and take back control from his crooked cronies. However, the company Directors recall that he has divested himself of all his shares and is thus powerless, so they brush him off.\n\nMcKeever takes them to court, arguing that Laura was an unlicensed, illegal lobbyist; but, when she is forced to admit on the stand that she had another, romantic, reason for seeing him, the case is dropped. However, Laura has forged a warm relationship with many of the smaller investors while working at the company; they responded and sent in their proxies, giving her the right to vote their shares. McKeever uses these votes to replace the entire Board. He marries Laura. As a gift to \"The Girl Who Has Everything,\" her husband presents her a Solid Gold Cadillac for her birthday.\n\n\nBosley Crowther of \"The New York Times\" praised Holliday highly, stating, \"the invincible Miss Holliday has dared to project her youthful figure and personality into the character shaped by Miss Hull\" (Josephine Hull, then in her seventies, played the role in the Broadway play) and is \"knocking the role completely dead.\" However, he felt that the villains of the piece were neither particularly convincing (\"not precisely representatives of the workaday financial world\"), original (\"cut from a fairly familiar stencil of Kaufmanesque farce\"), or formidable enough (\"The problems set up by the play-wrights are little barriers of cardboard farce\"). He concluded, \"it will give you an entertaining ride, but don't expect it to take you or your intelligence very far.\" The Film4 reviewer agreed that the story was not particularly convincing (\"Yeah – like global capitalism gets overthrown that easily\"), but \"even so, it's undemanding and amusing.\"\n\nJean Louis won the Academy Award for Best Costume Design Black and White. Ross Bellah, William Kiernan, and Louis Diage were nominated for the Academy Award for Best Art Direction Black and White.\n\nHolliday was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy, while the film was nominated for Best Motion Picture – Musical or Comedy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21550613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21550613", "title": "Thomson Mason", "text": "Thomson Mason\n\nThomson Mason (14 August 173326 February 1785) was a prominent Virginia lawyer, jurist, and Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Virginia. Mason was a younger brother of George Mason IV, United States patriot, statesman, and delegate from Virginia to the U.S. Constitutional Convention, father of Stevens Thomson Mason, a Colonel in the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War, a member of the Virginia state legislature, and a U.S. Senator from Virginia, and great-grandfather of Stevens T. Mason, first Governor of Michigan.\n\nMason was born at Chopawamsic in Stafford County, Virginia on 14 August 1733. He was the third and youngest child of George Mason III and his wife Ann Stevens Thomson.\n\nMason was educated at the College of William & Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia and then studied law at the Middle Temple in London. Afterwards, he returned to Virginia and was a burgess in the House of Burgesses representing Stafford and Loudoun counties from 1766 to 1775. In 1778, Mason was appointed Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Virginia and served only briefly before serving as one of five judges in the General Court. From 1779 to 1783, Mason was elected a member of the Virginia House of Delegates and served as chairman of the Committee on Courts of Justice.\n\nIn 1760, Mason purchased Raspberry Plain in Loudoun County, Virginia In 1771, Thomson built the mansion at Raspberry Plain. Upon Thomson's death, the Raspberry Plain estate was deeded to his eldest son Stevens Thomson Mason.\n\nMason married Mary King Barnes, the only daughter of Colonel Abraham Barnes and his wife Mary King, in 1758. He and Mary had four children:\n\n\nMary died on 21 October 1771 in Prince William County, Virginia and was interred in the Mason family graveyard at Gunston Hall and later moved to Raspberry Plain. Six years later on 23 November 1777, Mason married for a second time to Elizabeth Westwood Wallace. He and Elizabeth had four children:\n\n\nMason died on 26 February 1785 at Chopawamsic at the age of 51.\n"}
{"id": "39510415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39510415", "title": "Thor Philip Axel Jensen", "text": "Thor Philip Axel Jensen\n\nThor Philip Axel Jensen (3 December 1863 – 12 September 1947) was a Danish entrepreneur who moved to Iceland at an early age and became famous there for his business activities during the first half of the twentieth century: he all but introduced big business, and even modern capitalism, to the country. His company Kveldúlfur hf. was the biggest in Iceland during the inter-war years. His descendants include some of Iceland's most powerful and well known figures.\n\nThor's father, Jens Chr. Jensen, was a master builder. Thor had eleven siblings and four half-sisters. Thor did well in his studies but lost his father at the age of eight. Two years later, he was sent to a free boarding school for orphans in Copenhagen. In 1878, at the end of his studies and after reaching confirmation age, Thor was sent to Borðeyri, a small trading settlement in the north-west of Iceland, because his headmaster knew an Icelandic merchant there.\n\nThor adapted quickly to Iceland, learning Icelandic and reading medieval Icelandic sagas. A certain widow moved to Borðeyri with two children in tow—a boy and a girl. The girl was called Margrét Þorbjörg Kristjánsdóttir; she and Thor fell in love, and remained together for over sixty years, having twelve children.\n\nThor and Margrét moved to Akranes where Thor started a shop. Business went well at first, but around 1900 Thor was bankrupted when a ship carrying his goods was lost. Thor moved with his family to Hafnarfjörður where they lived until Thor got back on his feet and established a new shop in Reykjavík. Fishing at this time in Iceland was in transition from being 'a secondary occupation for farmers' to being 'an industry in its own right'. Thor was known for his energy and 'two of the most powerful fishing businessmen in Seltjarnarnes, Guðmundur Einarsson í Nesi and Þórður Jónasson í Ráðagerði, said that they would buy fishing equipment from him if he offered it at a competitive price'. Guðmundur gave Thor the use of his premises on the corner of Austurstræti and Veltusund in Reykjavík, and both he and Þórður invested 500 krónur to start the company. Thor called the company Godthaab-verzlunin after the street Godthaabsvej in Frederiksberg in Copenhagen. The company did well and Thor was soon the richest person in Iceland. In 1908 he built himself a splendid house at Fríkirkjuvegur 11, by Tjörnin, now in the Hallargarður sculpture park.\n\nWith Pétur J. Thorsteinsson, Thor was a founder member of the fishing and fish-processing company PJ Thorsteinsson & Co, otherwise known as the Milljónarfélagið, in 1907. The company's name came about because it aimed to achieve a share capital of ISK1m, which would have equalled Iceland's state budget---though that goal was never quite achieved. Through it, Thor took a role in the design of the Jóni forseti, Iceland's first trawler; established a harbour at Viðey; and built Iceland's only railway line. Pétur and Thor got on badly; Pétur left, and four years later, the company was bankrupt; both partners lost money, but Pétur the more. 'At the time, there was an investigation into the affair, where Jensen famously couldn’t remember a thing about the whole debacle.' Later, in his autobiography, Jensen argued, implausibly, that the bankruptcy was in no way his fault. He was also a founder member of Eimskip but was not elected to the board on account of his origins, and took no further role in the company.\n\nIn later years Thor focused on making Korpúlfsstaður the largest dairy in Iceland. He put considerable resources behind this and achieved his goal. Thor died one night after a stroke. Out of respect, his numerous businesses closed the day of his funeral, which took place on 18 September 1947.\n\nThor became noted for buying up large tracts of land. According to his autobiography, he aspired to own all the lands supposedly claimed on Snæfellsnes by the ninth-century settler Bjǫrn the Easterner, so as to follow in the footsteps of the \"landnámsmenn\". Thus in 1914, he bought Bjarnarhöfn, along with various uninhabited plots and islands: Guðnýjarstaðir, Efrakot, Neðrakot, Hrútey, Hafnareyjar, and the inhabited Ármýrar, for 18,000 krónur. In the following years, he bought the neighbouring Fjarðarhorn, Árnabotn, Hraunsfjörð, Selvelli, Seljahraun and Kothraun. He used these lands for sheep farming. Thor also bought lands at Borgarnes.\n\nFrom 1909, Thor began buying up land and fishing rights along the Haffjarðará, one of Iceland's most famed salmon rivers, until he owned all the fishing on the river. The river became the focus of his family's summer holidays, and for line-fishing by paying visitors.\n\nThor and Margrét had twelve children, and together the parents and children are known in Icelandic as the \"Thorsararnir\"; they and their descendents include some of Iceland's most prominent figures, chronicled by Guðmundur Magnússon. The children were: Camilla Therese (20 April 1887 – 1968), Richard (29 April 1888 – 1970), Kjartan (26 April 1890 – 1971), Ólafur (Tryggvason) (19 January 1892 – 1964), Haukur (21 March 1896 – 1970), Kristín (16 February 1899 – 1972), Kristjana (23 July 1900 – 1989), Margrét Þorbjörg (22 April 1902 – 1996), Thor (Harald) (26 November 1903 – 1965), Lorentz (4 July 1904 – 1970), Louise Andrea (24 August 1906 – 1907), and (Louis) Hilmar (7 July 1908 – 1939).\n\nThor's son Ólafur Thors was Iceland's prime minister five times; Ólafur's daughter Margrét Þorbjörg Thors was married to the pilot Tony Jonsson; another son, Thor Thors, was Iceland's first Permanent Representative to the United Nations. His grandchildren include Elina Hallgrímsdottir, Margrét Þóra Hallgrímsson, wife of Björgólfur Guðmundsson and mother of Björgólfur Thor Björgólfsson; and the author Thor Vilhjálmsson, whose son Guðmundur Andri Thorsson is also a noted author.\n\nFor the most part, the period of the greatest power, wealth, and influence of the Thorsararnir had run its course by the 1970s, though the descendants of Thor and Margrét now number several hundred.\n\nThor Jensen and his great-grandson Björgólfur Thor Björgólfsson are the subject of the 2011 documentary film \"Thor's Saga\" by Ulla Boje Rasmussen.\n\n"}
{"id": "12785720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12785720", "title": "Toy advertising", "text": "Toy advertising\n\nToy advertising is the promotion of toys through a variety of media. Advertising campaigns for toys have been criticised for trading on children's naivete and for turning children into premature consumers. Advertising to children is usually regulated to ensure that it meets defined standards of honesty and decency. These rules vary from country to country, with some going as far as banning all advertisements that would be directed to children.\n\nThe commercial sale and marketing of children's toys only became popular in the mid-18th century. Prior to this, children had access to relatively few toys, and of those toys in use, most were hand-made, either by the child or a close relative. Toys that were in common use from at least medieval times were very basic items such as hoops, tops, balls and dolls which could be turned out by local carpenters or coopers. A scattering of toy shops traded in 17th-century London, but were virtually unknown outside the capital. A small quantity of mechanical toys were imported from France and Germany, but these were expensive and beyond the reach of all but the wealthiest families. \n\nA broader interest in children's toys and games coincided with the emergence of a middle class when fewer children were expected to work. The 18th-century attitude to toys was that they should educational. Accordingly toymakers designed their products to prepare children for adult life. For example, a rocking-horse taught children to balance and prepared them for horse-riding. A doll prepared girls for motherhood and child-rearing while toy soldiers taught young boys about the military. Virtually, from the outset, commercially produced toys were remarkably gendered. \n\nBy the mid-nineteenth century, technological developments such as the invention of sheet metal stamping machines facilitated the mass production of inexpensive toys, notably tin toys or penny toys. Other technological developments included the advent of papier mache and \"India\" rubber moulding machines which effectively lowered the costs of manufacturing dolls. To stimulate demand for toys, it was necessary to encourage parents to purchase toys for their children. However, to do that, it was necessary to change attitudes to toys; to promulgate the idea that children were children rather than 'adults in training' and that toys were developmentally useful. \n\nToy manufacturers were late-comers to modern marketing and advertising techniques. The earliest commercial toymakers relied on standardised mass production manufacturing techniques, with its emphasis on achieving economies through long production. Designs and models were changed rarely. Toy design was conservative; and always aimed at securing parent approval. Toymakers rarely attended the international exhibitions. Early advertising appeared in wholesale and retail catalogs where advertisements appeared alongside mousetraps and match holders. Advertising messages were targeted at parents and spoke of the educational value as well as the toy's durability. Toy advertising rarely showed children using the toys. The tenor of toy advertising and marketing was that adults decided what toys were appropriate for children. \n\nDemographic and social changes were beginning to affect attitudes to toys and children's play throughout the 19th-century. The decreasing size of families meant that children had fewer siblings and that toys became an important diversion and source of entertainment. Rising living standards and wages meant that parents had more disposable income. Middle-class children remained in education for longer periods, with the implication that they had less time to make their own toys, and were more reliant on commercially manufactured toys. By the late 19th-century, parents were beginning to appreciate the special needs of childhood and that toys were more than just the preparation for the real world, but that they could also offer a retreat from mundane realities. \n\nIn the 1890s and early 1900s, a toy trade press emerged on both sides of the Atlantic. In England, the \"Toy Trades Journal\" first appeared in March, 1891; the \"Sports Trader\" appeared in 1907 and the short-lived \"Games, Toys and Amusements\" journal appeared in 1908. In America, \"Playthings\" magazine was launched in 1902. These trade-oriented journals began to publish articles advising toymakers and toy retailers on methods for optimising sales of children's toys. \n\nBy the late 19th century, toymakers were beginning to adopt modern marketing practices. Manufacturers and distributors began using mail-order catalogues to reach consumers directly. Montgomery Ward, for example, produced a catalog listing 23,000 items including toys. The new department stores began to include toys in window displays in which goods were featured as part of an artistic fantasy. Toymakers began to develop a unique style or personality that could be linked to a company name or brand. Advertising for toys began to appear in consumer magazines. Advertising messages encouraged mothers to take their children shopping with them, and to watch how the child interacted with toys in order to identify the child's preferences. \n\nBy the mid-20th century, the traditional approach of marketing through mothers (also known as the \"gatekeeper model\") was waning. Children, who by this time, were the recipients of pocket-money, made individual purchasing decisions, as part of their education in the world of consumption. Television broadcasting in the mid-20th century provided toymakers with the ability to reach national children's audiences. In the late 20th century, the merchandising of film and TV characters in the form of dolls or figurines, gave toy marketers access to international audiences. \n\nToy advertisements are aimed at three target audiences: children, adults (especially close relatives such as parents or grandparents), and toy retailers. Different message and media strategies are used for each target group. To gain the attention of children, advertising messages might focus on products are often brightly coloured, fast moving designs; or associations with heroic characters from film, TV, or books. Packaging can enhance the attractiveness of a toy. When advertising toys to adults, the educational benefits to the child are often promoted. When promoting toys to retailers, the ability of a product range to generate store traffic and profits is likely to be mentioned.\n\nChildren up to the age of five can find it difficult to distinguish between the main program and commercial breaks. This is particularly so when a toy range is linked to a television series they are watching. Many children do not understand the intentions of marketing and commercials until the age of eight. Media literacy programmes such as Media Smart are being used to help children understand and think critically about advertising.\n\nChildren are not easily persuaded to want something. Advertising is only part of the picture. Children's interests in a particular toy are likely to arise from word of mouth and peer pressure. Two-year-olds spend about 10% of their time with other children. This rises to 40% between ages 7 to 11. The term \"pester power\" refers to children nagging their parents to buy a product. Some children will repeatedly ask them to buy a toy they want, and such insistence often leads to a purchase. There is regulation in place that bans advertisements from directly exhorting children to buy advertised products or persuade their parents to buy the products.\nAdvertisers sometimes try to stimulate word of mouth promotion of products.\n\nMany toys are directed towards one specific sex and advertising is tailored to meet their particular needs. There are biological as well as social and cultural reasons for boys' and girls' different toy preferences.\n\nLike other consumer products, toys may also be offered as sets. While each one may be affordable, it may be an investment to \"collect them all\".\n\nIntentions\n\nThe natural credulity of young children means that advertising to children is almost always a sensitive issue. The average child is exposed to approximately 40,000 commercials a year. These messages are channelled through television, the internet, bill board campaigns and print media. Toy marketers are also known for more direct approaches, targeting schools. Doing so by producing toys that are advertised with ‘educational benefits’ throughout primary school catalogues and news letters. A study on child advertising during Dec 2007 examined the relationship between television commercials and children’s requests to Father Christmas. Throughout the findings there was a significant correlation between the items requested and the commercials viewed. Proportionally there was a greater number of brands requested when associated with higher television viewing time. These findings reflect the impact marketers have on children. Through the use of advertising, brands are shaping the opinions and beliefs of young children every day thus generating an unrelenting appetite for branded merchandise. The intentions of toy manufactures are to influence children while they are young to gain brand loyalty, devolving premature consumers. The consumers of the future. Marketing strategies towards child advertising are paid high attention to as the market is generating approximately 21 billion dollars into the United States economy each year. This is possible due to the influential amount of purchasing power children have when pressuring their parents, through what marketers refer to as ‘pester power’.\n\nConsequence\n\nPersuasive commercials achieve such proportionate amounts of revenue, as children under the age of twelve have less cognitive ability to recognise the purpose of the advertisement. Brands sell a life style, presenting to children the idea of happiness. Children at a vulnerable age believe that the life style being sold to them is the truth, and by obtaining the products viewed they will mirror these impressions. The mind set that purchase equals an acquired identity can be dangerous. It can present low self-esteem amongst youth because their reality is not compromised by their materialistic gain. The journal of Social and Clinical Psychology conducts a model proving the relationship between materialistic values, compulsive buying tendencies, self discrepancies and low self-esteem that acts in a spiralling effect. This is due to the fundamentals of human nature which involves an endless amount of wants which contrasts with a disappointing reality. An example of this is Barbie, who is globally advertised as a best friend for young woman. In commercials Barbie comes to life portraying personality. Marketers use idealistic settings to falsely advertise the lifestyle that comes with Barbie; either on the beach or in a night club. Settings are designed to convince children of this idealistic reality and an experience that they too can share with her. Yet, in reality Barbie's potential relies on a child’s imagination. The setting is not included. Mainly she has no relatable characteristics for children to look up to, establishing the argument of social pressures and self-esteem. For toy companies however this is parallel to revenue. \nStrategies\n\nMarketers adopt certain strategies to create demand behind their products. Physically, toy packaging is generally bright attractive colours and interactive textures. They have recognisable logos and slogans which children can familiarise themselves with easily. They also have convenient shelf access in stores. Many companies also target children based on their genders. \n\nProduct placement\n\nEffective advertising strategies also heavily involve product placement; The marketing practice in which a business pays for its brand or products inclusion throughout a film or television programs. Theory suggests that the limited cognitive process which occurs when a child engages in television inflicts a feeling of familiarity to stimulate preference. Toy Story, a famous all time Disney movie worked in association with toy makers, basing the movie characters off real life toys. Mr Potato Head, Slinky Dog and Etch a Sketch original sales needing refreshing. After the release of the film in 1995 the sales of the toys that featured in the Toy Story movie skyrocketed. In correlation, the Disney Movie Frozen is a franchise within itself generating a net worth of $2.25 billion. Disney has capitalised on the films wide audience by constructing a profitable franchise supplying Frozen Character dolls, teddies, lunch boxes, clothing, duvet covers and more. According to Dave Hollis, executive vice president for distribution at Walt Disney Studios, Disney had troubling marketing to males. To over come this Disney found that boys respond more to humor therefore Olaf, the comedic Snowman was advertised as much as the two female lead characters were. The success of this strategic marketing was reflected in the exit polls which read that 43% of the audience during opening weekend were in fact male. Using this particular advertising strategy Disney in theory doubled their targeted audience.\n\nCelebrity and character endorsement\n\nThe influence of famous characters in commercials haze the lines between programmes and advertisements. An example throughout the journal \"Children as Consumers\" explains how celebrity endorsements in commercials have positive effects on a child’s response throughout the sales of toy cars. Cross-promotions of businesses heavily involve celebrity and character endorsements. For ten years Disney worked in collaborating with McDonald's, promoting the latest Disney films throughout the McDonald's Happy Meals. The connection between toys and fast food for young children creates a fun experience. Evident in the \"American Academy of Paediatrics\" journal, 20% of fast food restaurants advertisements now mention a complementary toy in their ads. The consequence of this illusion, that fast food is fun, holds businesses accountable for exploiting children and contributing to the global epidemic of child obesity. Where one in three children are classed as obese throughout New Zealand alone \n\nToy premiums, games and collectibles\n\nContest and give away prizes are effective practices marketers use to entice children and increase the sales. Cereal companies are renowned for contest and giveaway prizes, directly targeted at children. Similar to fast food, cereal companies generate excitement around their brand through the use of toys and games. Competition based advertisement can increase sales traffic as consumers believe the more they buy the higher their chances of winning are. This is also effective when the prized toy is a mystery and children have to buy the product to find out what it is. An example of this is the Weetbix All Black campaign, where Weetbix released All Black collector cards. Weetbix was able to engage their targeted audience, young boys, to want to purchase Weetbix so they can get the nationally loved rugby team's trading cards. By collecting and trading the cards also enhances social benefits for young children. By using rewards schemes Weetbix has encouraged children to choose a healthier cereal for breakfast. This is counteractive towards competitive sugar based cereal brands thus benefiting both Weetbix and children. \n\nExclusive kids only\n\nMarketers have been known to entice children through the use of exclusion. By directly advertising products as ‘kids only’ builds the experience feel special. This type of advertising is common throughout food companies, promoting that this drink or snack is just for kids making it immediately more engaging. The company Trix, an all-time favourite American cereal slogan reads \"Silly rabbit, Trix are for kids.\" Promoting the impression of exclusion and importance. For toy company’s exclusion is established through gender. Toys are specially designed for boys and girls and are exclusively showcased in separate aisles. Children begin to develop stereotypical, gender based knowledge during preschool and by the age of seven they have strong, established views on toy gender. Research found that when children aged seven to eleven were asked to choose a toy, most selected traditional gendered based occupational toys, reflecting role play. Children throughout this age group were also more likely to create rivalry with the opposite sex. Self-identity makes toy’s distinctly gender bias progressing sale transactions.\n\nToys are advertised in shops and on product packaging.\nThe colour on the packaging of a children's toy is often carefully selected in order to appeal to a certain demographic.\nThe educational benefits of toys are also explained on packaging for the benefit of parents. Skills which a child will gain, such as hand–eye coordination, exploration and problem solving are made explicit.\n\nCommon methods of advertising include:\n\nThe first televised toy commercial to be shown in the United States was for Hasbro's Mr. Potato Head in 1955. Since then television has been one of the most important media for marketing toys.\n\nThe Internet has created new opportunities for advertisers and new strategies have been developed to take advantage of the new media technology. Now a significant part of youth culture, new technologies enable marketing campaigns to reach children in a different way. Interactive games are a new medium which can be used to advertise toys to children.\n\nIn response to the perceived dangers of advertising to children some countries and districts have highly regulated or even banned these marketing avenues. In Sweden all advertisements aimed at children under the age of 12 have been banned and they are lobbying the European Union to do the same. Similarly Quebec's Consumer Protection Act includes provisions to ban print and broadcast advertising aimed at children under the age of 13.\n\nAdvertising impact can be lessened if parents and teachers talk to children about the purpose and nature of advertising.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13896863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13896863", "title": "TradeWinds (newspaper)", "text": "TradeWinds (newspaper)\n\nTradeWinds is the world's biggest shipping news service, publishing both online news and a printed weekly newspaper, that covers shipping as a global industry. TradeWinds is owned by NHST Media Group and is headquartered in Oslo.\n\nTradeWinds has been setting the maritime agenda for over 25 years and covers all aspects of shipping, focusing especially on news related to owners and the commercial side of the industry. The coverage includes new buildings, sale and purchase activities, chartering, recycling, but also marine insurance casualties and piracy. \n\nTradeWinds has full-time reporters based in Shanghai, Singapore, New Delhi, Athens, Oslo, Stamford, Connecticut and London.\n\nIn 2000, TradeWinds added an online edition which is continuously updated from Singapore, London and Stamford. The TradeWinds App was launched in 2012 and is available on both iOS and Android. And in 2013, these platforms were joined by TW+, a quarterly glossy magazine that has continued the TradeWinds tradition of shaking up the way shipping is covered.\n\n"}
{"id": "14666962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14666962", "title": "Work permit", "text": "Work permit\n\nA work permit is the permission to take a job within a foreign country. It may also be a permit given to minors allowing them to work legally under child labor laws. Within an industry, a work permit may be required to execute certain functions within a factory outside normal operational tasks (such as maintenance tasks) — in some places they might be called Permit to Work (PTW).\n\nCurrently, every EU country has a different process for granting work permits to nationals of non-EU countries. To address this issue, the European Commission began work in 1999 on developing an EU-wide process for the entry of non-EU nationals into the work force. In October 2007, they adopted a proposal to introduce a work permit similar to the United States' \"Green Card\" program, called the \"Blue Card\". It is similar to the UK's Highly Skilled Migrant Programme, with the exception that it will require an employment contract in place prior to migration. After two years in the first country, the migrant will be allowed to move and work in another EU country, and can sum the number of years spent in the EU for purposes of residency. This new card will abolish work permits across the EU and centralize the issuing from Brussels.\nThe procedure to get a work permit is quite elaborate since the applicant should prove that no French jobseeker fitted the position.\n\nThere are seven standard ways to apply for a work permit in the United Kingdom: the Business and Commercial Arrangements, the Training and Work Experience Arrangements, the Sports people and Entertainers Arrangements, Student Internships, GATS, Ancestry Visa and the Sectors Based Scheme. All applications require the work permit holder to leave the country where the work permit was issued every three months under the Work Permit Arrangements. Costs for leaving the airport are £64, per person and you must return to the airport after 24 hours or one working day to leave the country. If you remain in the airport the cost is £35 per person and you must leave the country after 24 hours or one working day in the airport. Each of these involves its own application process, and generally requires a job offer from a UK employer.\n\nUK Work visas allow for extended visa options which may lead to permanent residence. With Europe at its doorstep and a large domestic market, the various UK work visa categories offer a gateway for thousands of applicants seeking the experience of European life.\n\nThe UK work permit system is currently being replaced by a new points-based immigration system.\n\nAccording to the Federal Migration Service of Russia estimates, Russia's 5 million foreign nationals work today.\n\nIn order to work in Russia, foreign citizen must have a work visa (visa for arriving at the order), to obtain a work permit and get on migration registration in the Russian Federal Migration Service bodies.\n\nFor foreign citizens arriving without visas (CIS countries except Turkmenistan and Georgia) there is a simplified procedure. The period of temporary stay for them is 90 days but can be extended up to one year from the date of entry into the Russian Federation on presentation of the migration service of the employment contract or a contract of civil-legal nature. That is, a foreigner can obtain a work permit for up to 90 days, and then to extend it after the job. However, it is recommended to immediately impose labor or civil contract and to issue a work permit for the duration of its validity.\n\nIssuance of work permits is carried out taking into account the established quota. The quota is divided by region, Russia and the integrated vocational qualification groups.\n\nA work permit is divided to some categories:\nThe work permit is valid within the subject of the Russian Federation, in which it was issued.\n\nForeigners and stateless persons can be employed in Ukraine after obtaining an appropriate permit. These requirements are established by article 42 of the Law of Ukraine \"On Employment\". State Employment Service of Ukraine is the main authority to issue work permit. \n\nDoes not require obtaining a work permit for:\n\nIn general, the United States does not require work permits for adult citizens. However, certain aliens are required to have an Employment Authorization Document from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) of the Department of Homeland Security (DHS).\n\nThe federal government of the United States does not require work permits or proof-of-age certificates for a minor to be employed. However, the possession of an age certificate constitutes a good faith effort to comply with minimum age requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938. The United States Department of Labor will issue a \"certificate of age\" if the minor employee's state does not issue them, or if the minor is requested by his or her employer to provide one. Several states are not listed in (a), such as Alaska, Arizona, Idaho, Kansas, Mississippi, South Carolina, Texas, and Utah, and thus their certificates may not meet the requirements of (b) as being evidence of compliance with the Fair Labor Standards Act.\n\nMany states also require them for workers of certain ages. In some states, for example New Jersey, permits are only required for minors 14 and 15 years old, while others such as Massachusetts require, at least in theory, work permits for all minors until they turn 18 years of age. In some states, enforcement is strict. Permits are usually issued through the school system the minor attends, and typically at a minimum is conditioned on enrollment in high school with regular attendance (no chronic absenteeism, tardiness, or truancy). Some states such as New York and Indiana require high school students with part-time jobs to maintain a certain grade point average. Minors who are working are usually restricted in the number of hours each day or week they are permitted to work as well as the types of jobs they may hold.\n\nThe immigration in Turkey is regulated by the (Göç İdaresi Genel Müdürlüğü) under the supervision of the Ministry of Interior while work permits are delivered by the (Uluslararası İşgücü Genel Müdürlüğü) under the supervision of the Ministry of Labour and Social Security (Türkiye Cumhuriyeti Çalışma ve Sosyal Güvenlik Bakanlığı). All applications for both residence permit and work permit are made through online government portals. The residence permit application is made through \" \"e-Residence\" (e-İkamet) while application are made through e-Government (Turkey) (e-Devlet).\n\nThere are three categories of South African work visa or permit available to a foreigner each with its own set of specific requirements all assisting in immigration to South Africa or working in South Africa. These are the \"General Work Visa/Permit\", the \"Critical Skills Work Visa/Permit\" and the \"Intra-Company Transfer Work Visa/Permit\". Due to recent immigration law changes (May, 2014), the obtaining of work visas or permits in South Africa has become much more arduous. Furthermore, these work permits are now referred to as visas.\n\nGeneral Work Visa/Permit - \nThe basis of a general work visa/permit is that a firm offer of employment has been made by a prospective employer to a foreigner after such employer has unsuccessfully exploited the local labour market in attempting to procure the needed skills, experiences or qualifications equivalent of such foreigner.\n\nCritical Skills Work Visa/Permit - \nA critical skills work permit may be issued to a foreigner who possesses critical skills or qualifications and is able to demonstrate with supporting documentation in the form of testimonials, publications. This is based on a list published by the Department of Home Affairs in South Africa called the Critical Skills List A letter of motivation from an authoritative body to substantiate the benefits that those skills will bring to South Africa. This critical skills work permit is granted for up to five years and may be renewed for a further period, if required. This visa type replaces the previously issued Quota Work Permit and the Exceptional Skills Work Permit.\n\nIntra-Company Transfer Work Visa/Permit - \nAn intra company transfer work permit is issued to a foreigner who is normally deployed or seconded to South African branch, subsidiary or associate office of a corporate entity aboard.\nThere are strict controls to ensure that the foreigner remains employed in his or her specific position during the tour of duty. This type of visa is only valid for two years, and often no extension is possible. Also, any applicant must have first worked for a minimum of 6 months in the employ of the company’s foreign office before applying to relocate and immigrate to the South African branch.\n\nCanada work permits are issued under the Temporary Foreign Worker Program (TFWP) by Canada immigration and Citizenship.\n\nThe TFWP has four streams: high-skilled workers, low-skilled workers, the Seasonal Agricultural Worker Program, and the Live-In Caregiver Program.\n\nIn Singapore, the work permit process is managed by the Ministry of Manpower. There are several kinds of work permits, and the type accorded generally depends on the salary range of the position, as well as on skills (including education), work experience, and the type of job being applied for. These work permit types include the Employment Pass (monthly salary of at least S$4,000), S Pass (monthly salary of at least S$2,800), and \"Work Permit\" (generally for unskilled workers).\n\nFor skilled personnel such as confinement nannies from Malaysia, the work permit is short-term. Employers or appointed agencies are able to hire Malaysian confinement nanny by applying the work permit either online or manually. The validity period can be up to 16 weeks with reference to the birth time of the child. There are two situations which the pass can be extended. It is either when the required employment period is longer than the issued permit or when the confinement nanny leaves Singapore during her employment period.\n\nAnother kind of work permit available in Singapore commonly known as the EntrePass and is especially geared towards entrepreneurs who might not pass the stringent requirements regarding education and salary. The EntrePass is for foreign entrepreneurs who are planning to start up a business in Singapore. The entrepreneur must be actively involved in operations of the business. Candidates can apply for this anytime up until 6 months after they registered the business. Generally EntrePass are awarded to individuals who have either have a proven track record of running successful businesses or who have an innovative idea.\nThe Singapore Personalised Employment Pass, also known as PEP is a special type of Singapore work visa issued to individuals based on their own merits. The issuance of the PEP is managed by Singapore’s Ministry of Manpower. The PEP is independent of any employer, rendering a PEP holder the flexibility and freedom to switch employers without having the pass revoked. The PEP holder is also entitled to stay in Singapore for up to 6 months in between jobs and to evaluate career opportunities. It is issued for a period of 5 years, and non renewable thereafter. But, since December 2011, PEP has been discontinued by the Singaporean Authority.\n\nA work permit system is a formal written system to control certain types of work identified as potentially hazardous. The terms \"P.T.W.\", \"permit\" or \"work permit\" refer to the form used by a company to meet its needs. These systems aim to ensure proper planning and consideration of the risks involved in a particular job, at a specific time and place, with designated precautions.\n\nIt is usually categorized in \"hot\" work permits and \"cold\" work permits. Hot works are those where there is a potential of generating fire or extreme heat, cold ones are all the others.\n\nSeveral different types of visas are available for immigrants. \n\nForeigners holding a \"B\" visa and wishing to work or start a business in Thailand are required to obtain a work permit. The issuance of work permits is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Labor of Thailand. Work without permission in the Kingdom is criminally punishable. It takes 7 working days to process the application for a permit. If the applicant is qualified and able to use \"One Stop Service Center\", the work permit will only take one day.\n\nThai government fees for a work permit:\nThai government fees for amendments:\nAccording to the Emergency Decree on Non-Thais' Working Management No. 2, 2018, foreigners can work anywhere in the country without having to record these changes in the permit, but each employer must be listed in the book. If the employee is transferred to another office in another part of the country, the employer should notify the office of the Employment Department.\n\nThe Thai Ministry of Labor has developed a list of professions that foreigners are prohibited from working in the Kingdom. This is done so that the local population does not suffer from unemployment due to the influx of immigrants.<br>\nList of prohibited professions:\n\n"}
{"id": "51865793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51865793", "title": "Yvonne Mhango", "text": "Yvonne Mhango\n\nYvonne Mhango is a Malawian economist. She is the economist for Sub-Saharan Africa at Renaissance Capital.\n\nShe attended Saint Andrews International High School in Blantyre, Malawi, where she studied Mathematics, Geography and Economics at A-Level, from 1996 until 1998. She was then admitted to the University of Cape Town in 1999, graduating with a Bachelor of Business Science in 2002. From 2003 until 2004, she studied at the same university, graduating with a Master of Business Science.\n\nFrom 2005 until 2008, Mhango was an economist at Standard Bank of South Africa. In June 2008, she became the head of economic research for Africa at Standard Bank, serving in that capacity until November 2010. Since November 2010, she has been the economist for sub-Saharan Africa at Renaissance Capital.\n\nIn June 2016, following the Central Bank of Nigeria's decision to allow the niara to freely float against other currencies, Mhango said that floating the naira freely would “release a pressure valve for the economy”, which would in turn “see the economy beginning to thaw and green shoots emerge possibly as soon as a year from now”. Mhango, with others had correctly predicted such a devaluation in the naira, following the flotation of the Kazakhstan currency in August 2015. \n\nIn October 2016, Mhango and other economists at Renaissance Capital said that the Kenya Shilling was about 20 percent overvalued and that this was hurting Kenya's exports to other countries in the region.\n\nYvonne Mhango is a co-author of the book The Fastest Billion, about Africa's economic revolution.\n\n\n\n \n"}
