{"id": "1185941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1185941", "title": "Afro-Asians", "text": "Afro-Asians\n\nAfro-Asians or African-Asians (also sometimes known as Black Asians or Blasians), are persons of mixed African and Asian ancestry. Historically, Afro-Asian populations have been marginalized as a result of human migration and social conflict.\n\nDuring the 1970s, an increased demand for copper and cobalt attracted Japanese investments in the mineral-rich southeastern region of Katanga Province. Over a 10-year period, more than 1,000 Japanese miners relocated to the region, confined to a strictly male-only camp. Arriving without family or spouses, the men often sought social interaction outside the confounds of their camps. In search of intimacy with the opposite sex, sometimes resulting in cohabitation, the men openly engaged in interracial dating and relationships, a practice embraced by the local society. As a result, a number of Japanese miners fathered children with native Congolese women. However, most of the mixed-race infants resulting from these unions died, soon after birth. Multiple testimonies of local people suggest that the infants were poisoned by a Japanese lead physician and nurse working at the local mining hospital. Subsequently, the circumstances would have brought the miners shame as most of them already had families back in their native Japan. The practice forced many native Katangan mothers to hide their children by not reporting to the hospital to give birth.\n\nToday, fifty Afro-Japanese have formed an association of \"Katanga Infanticide\" survivors. The organization has hired legal counsel seeking a formal investigation into the killings. The group submitted an official inquiry to both the Congolese and Japanese governments, to no avail. Issues specific to this group include having no documentation of their births since not having been born in the local hospital spared their lives. The total number of survivors is unknown.\n\nThe mid-19th century saw about 500 Chinese laborers and indentured servants, along with a handful from India stealthily imported to the island of Fernando Po through the once Portuguese occupied Macau. While most of these servants returned to their homelands at the end of their servitude, a few remained, settling and marrying into the local population. One example is immigrant East Indian laborer Francisco Kashu Alimama who remained in Moka after the death of his last living relative. He married the daughter of one of the last Bubi kings, producing several Indo-Equatoguinean children.\n\nIn 1999, Nicholas Kristof of \"The New York Times\" reported a surprising encounter on the island of Pate, where he found a village of stone huts. He talked to an elderly man living in the village who said that he was a descendant of Chinese explorers who were shipwrecked there centuries before. The Chinese had supposedly traded with the locals and had even loaded giraffes onto their ship to take back to China. However, the Chinese ran aground on a nearby reef. Kristof found evidence that confirmed the man's story. Such evidence included the Asian features of the people in the village, plus Asian-looking porcelain artifacts. These descendants of Zheng He's fleet occupy both Pate and Lamu Islands.\n\nNew interest in Kenya's natural resources has attracted over $1 billion of investment from Chinese firms. This has propelled new development in Kenya's infrastructure with Chinese firms bringing in their own male workers to build roads. The temporary residents usually arrive without their spouses and families. Thus, a rise of incidents involving local college-aged females has resulted in an increased rate of Afro-Chinese infant births to single Kenyan mothers.\n\nThe population of Madagascar is primarily a mixture of various degrees of Austronesian and Bantu settlers from Southeast Asia (Borneo) and Southeast Africa (primarily Mozambique), respectively. Years of intermarriages created the Malagasy people. They primarily speak Malagasy, an Austronesian language with some Bantu influences.\n\nIn the study of \"The Dual Origin of the Malagasy in Island Southeast Asia and East Africa: Evidence from Maternal and Paternal Lineages\" shows the Bantu maternal origin to be 38% and Paternal 51% while the Southeast Asian paternal to be 34% and maternal 62%. In the study of Malagasy, autosomal DNA shows the highlanders ethnic group like Merina are almost an even mixture of Southeast Asian and Bantu origin, while the coastal ethnic group have much higher Bantu mixture in their autosomal DNA suggesting they are mixture of new Bantu migrants and the already established highlander ethnic group. Maximum-likelihood estimates favour a scenario in which Madagascar was settled approximately 1,200 years ago by a very small group of women of approximately 30. The Malagasy people existed through intermarriages between the small founding population.\n\nIntermarriage between native Malagasy women and Chinese men were not uncommon.\nSeveral thousand Cantonese men intermarried and cohabited with Malagasy women. 98% of the Chinese traced their origin from Guangdong, specifically the Cantonese district of Shunde. For example, the census alone in 1954 census found 1,111 \"irregular\" Chinese-Malagasy unions and 125 legitimate, i.e., legally married, partnerships. Most offspring were registered by their mothers under a Malagasy name.\n\nApproximately 68% of the population is of Indo-Pakistani origin. About 25% of the population is Creole (of mixed French and African descent) and there are small numbers of people of Chinese and Franco-Mauritian descent.\n\nSince the 1970s, Nigeria has been a slow, but steady, increase in the immigrant Filipino population drawn by the oil industry. Established in 1973, the Philippine Barangay Society of Nigeria addresses issues specific to over 1700 \"Nigerized\" Filipinos living in the country. This acculturation has resulted in a small but growing, number of biracial Nigerian-Filipinos births. Most of these children are parented by Filipino mothers and Nigerian fathers.\n\nThe native Kaf population has a diverse range of ancestry stemming from colonial Chinese and Indian peoples. They also descend from African slaves brought from countries like Mozambique, Guinea, Senegal, Madagascar, Tanzania, and Zambia to the island.\n\nMore than 70% of the native population has Afro-Asian ancestry stemming from African, Malagasy, Indian and Chinese peoples, combined with additional French and British origins. However, the demographic is specifically proud of their African/Malagasy heritage and have formed an institute promoting their identity and cultural tolerance.\n\nThe Cape Coloured population descend from indigenous Khoisan and Xhosa peoples; European immigrants and Malagasy, Ceylonese and Southeast Asian (primarily Indonesian) laborers and slaves brought by the Dutch from the mid-17th century to the late 18th century. The majority of Coloureds, particularly in the Western Cape and Northern Cape, speak Afrikaans as a first language, while those in other parts of South Africa tend to speak English as well. Coloureds with Javanese or other Indonesian ancestry may often be regarded as Cape Malay and are primarily Muslims, while the majority of Coloureds are Christian (generally Protestant) or agnostic. Due to similar social adversities experienced under the Apartheid regime from the late 1940s to the late 1980s, Coloured and Indigenous South African communities generally fall under the Black social category when it comes to employment and affirmative action policies.\n\nThe mtDNA study of ethnic people from South Africa shows substantial African genetic mtDNA contribution in both the Cape Malay and South African Indians. mtDNA of Cape Malay shows 10% African mtDNA contribution in their gene pool including 20% (1 in 5) of South African Indians; there appears to be no African Y-DNA contribution detected but this could be due to the fact that the sample size was small. mtDNA study also revealed that about 1 in 10 South African Black people have mtDNA lineages derived from Eurasian (3.0%) and Asian of Indian origins (7.1%).\n\nThere is a significant genetic mixture of European, African, Indian, and East/Southeast Asian DNA in the modern ethnic group of Cape Coloured. The highest genetic contribution to the Cape Coloured is from African maternal mtDNA displaying very high frequencies at 79.04%, followed by African Paternal Y-DNA frequencies at 45.18%. European Genetic contribution is the second highest after Africans with a high frequency of 37.72% from European Y-DNA but with a low contribution of European mtDNA at 4.26%. The Indian genetics also displayed significant frequencies, the mtDNA contribution stands at 13.85% and Y-DNA at 9.65%, and lastly the East/Southeast Asian Y-DNA in the Cape Coloured also displayed a significant frequency at 8.54% but with a very low contribution of Southeast/East Asian mtDNA at only 1.6%, some of the Southeast Asian contributions from the Cape colored gene pool may have partially derived from both Southeast/East Asian and Malagasy who both also exhibit haplogroups O1a and O2a and B4a, B5a, F1c. The only exception of the completely East/Southeast Asian lineage in Cape Coloured are haplogroup O3-M122 (3.58%) and K-M9 (1.32%) both which are found among Chinese and Southeast Asians but not among the Malagasy.\n\nIn Central and South America, significant numbers of Chinese first started arriving in the mid-19th century as part of the Coolie slave trade. By the mid-20th century, Cuba and Peru had the largest Chinese populations. By the end of WWII, there were considerable high numbers of Central and South America descended from local women and Chinese fathers. One of the most famous of these is the Afro-Chinese-Cuban artist Wifredo Lam, known as the Cuban Picasso. There are also small numbers of Central and South American residents of Asian and African descent in countries like Puerto Rico, Haiti and the Dominican Republic.\n\nAbout 120,000 Cantonese coolies, all males, entered Cuba under contract for 80 years; most did not marry, but Hung Hui (1975:80) cites there was a frequency of sexual activity between black women and Cantonese coolies. According to Osberg (1965:69) the free Chinese conducted the practice of buying slave women and freeing them expressly for marriage. In the 19th and 20th centuries, Chinese men (Cantonese) engaged in sexual activity with both white and black Cuban women and from such relations many children were born. (For a British Caribbean model of Chinese cultural retention through procreation with black women, see Patterson, 322-31).\n\nIn the 1920s an additional 30,000 Cantonese and small groups of Japanese also arrived; both immigrations were exclusively male and there was rapid intermarriage with white, black and mulato populations. The CIA World Factbook Cuba, in 2008, claimed a population of 114,240 Chinese-Cubans, with only 300 being pure Chinese.\n\nIn the study of genetic origin, admixture and asymmetry in maternal and paternal human lineages in Cuba, thirty-five Y-chromosome SNPs were typed in the 132 male individuals of the Cuban sample. The study does not include any people with some Chinese ancestry. All the samples were white and black Cubans. 2 out of 132 male sample belong to East Asian Haplogroup O2, which is found in significant frequencies among Cantonese people, is found in 1.5% of the Cuban population.\n\nOne of Cuba's most known Afro-Asians is the artist Wifredo Lam.\n\nIn Haiti, there is a sizable percentage within the minority who are of Asian descent. Haiti is also home to Marabou peoples, a half African and half East Indian people who descent from East Indian immigrants who arrived from other Caribbean nations, such Martinique and Guadeloupe and African slave descendants. Most present-day descendants of the original Marabou are products of hypodescent and, subsequently, mostly of African in ancestry.\n\nThe country also has a sizable Chinese-Haitian population. One of the country's most notable Afro-Asians is the late painter Edouard Wah who was born to an Afro-Haitian mother and a Chinese immigrant father. There is a small number of residents that have Japanese ancestry as well.\n\nAbout 100,000 Cantonese coolies (almost all males) in 1849 to 1874 migrated to Peru and intermarried with Peruvian women of European, African, Amerindian, mestizo and mulatto origin. Many Peruvian Chinese today are of mixed Spanish, Ameridian and Chinese lineages. Among this population exist many of African slave lineage. Estimates for the Chinese-Peruvian population range from about 1.3–1.6 million. Asian-Peruvians are estimated to be 3% of the population, but one source places the number of citizens with some Chinese ancestry at 4.2 million, which equates to 15% of the country's total population.\n\nBrazil has the largest Japanese community outside Japan and a large Chinese and Korean minority as well. The country's brown population, which includes mixed race mestizo and mulatto Brazilians, is almost half of the entire population and it also includes people of Eurasian, Gypsy, and indigenous descent. Interracial marriages between Asians, mostly Japanese and Brazilians of African descent are less common than those between East Asians and Brazilians of European, Arab and Jewish descent, which are not uncommon and known as hāfu or ainoko. Most East Asians live in São Paulo and Paraná. Afro-Asians can be found in Rio de Janeiro where there is a sizeable Chinese minority as well as Vietnamese and Indonesians and Bahia where the majority of blacks live.\n\nIn the 1860s, Chinese and East Indian immigrants arrived in the West Indies as indentured servants. Chinese male laborers and migrants went to Peru, Cuba, Haiti, Guyana, Suriname, Jamaica and Trinidad where they often intermarried with local black women which resulted in a large population of racially mixed children. According to the 1946 Census from Jamaica and Trinidad alone, 12,394 Chinese were located between Jamaica and Trinidad. 5,515 of those who lived in Jamaica were Chinese-Jamaican and another 3,673 were Chinese-Trinidadians living in Trinidad. The Chinese men who married African women in Guyana and Trinidad Tobago were mostly Cantonese, while the Chinese men who married African women in Jamaica were mostly Hakka. In her book and documentary \"Finding Samuel Lowe: China, Jamaica, Harlem\", Afro-Chinese-Jamaican-American Paula Williams Madison explores her grandfather's life and travels. The journey ends with the reunion of the author's immediate relatives with their newly discovered extended family in Guangdong, China.\n\nIn Jamaica, Guyana, and Trinidad, a percentage of the population of people are of Indian descent, some of whom have contributed to Afro-Asian-Caribbean children.\n\nDuring the mid-19th century, the British Empire imported approximately 14,000 Chinese indentured servants into Guyana as part of a broader colonial system aimed at recruiting sugar-plantation laborers. The majority of the male workers arrived without families, thus intermarried with local Indo-Guyanese and Afro-Guyanese women.\n\nThe country is known for having a large Indian population stemming from the 18th and 19th-century colonial plantation economy and people of Indian descent now make up a narrow plurality. In Trinidad and Tobago, persons of African-Indian mixed descent are called \"douglas\". One of the country's most notable Afro-Asians is its former President George Maxwell Richards and singer Nicki Minaj.\n\nIn 1882, the Chinese Exclusion Act was passed and Chinese workers who chose to stay in the U.S. could no longer be with their wives who stayed behind in China. Because White Americans looked at Chinese labor workers as stealing employment, they were harassed and discriminated against. Many Chinese men settled in black communities in states such as Mississippi and, in turn, married black women. In the mid-19th to 20th centuries, hundreds of thousands of Chinese men in the U.S., mostly of Cantonese origin from Taishan, migrated to the United States. Anti-miscegenation laws in many states prohibited Chinese men from marrying white women. After the Emancipation Proclamation, many intermarriages in some states were not recorded and historically, Chinese-American men married African-American women in high proportions to their total marriage numbers due to few Chinese-American women being in the United States. After the Emancipation Proclamation, many Chinese-Americans immigrated to the Southern states, particularly Arkansas, to work on plantations. For example, in 1880, the tenth US Census of Louisiana alone counted 57% of interracial marriages between these Chinese Americans to be with African Americans and 43% to be with European-American women. Between 20 and 30 percent of the Chinese who lived in Mississippi married black women before 1940. In a genetic study of 199 samples from African-American males found one belong to haplogroup O2a (or 0.5%).\n\nIt was discovered by historian Henry Louis Gates Jr. in the \"African American Lives\" documentary miniseries that NASA astronaut Mae Jemison has a significant (above 10%) genetic East Asian admixture. Gates speculated that the intermarriage/relations between migrant Chinese workers during the 19th century and black or African-American slaves or ex-slaves may have contributed to her ethnic genetic make-up. In the 1960s census showed 300 Chinese men married to black women and vice versa also 100. Born to a Japanese mother and an African-American U.S. military personnel father, sisters Titi and Miko Branch, founders of \"Miss Jessie's\", were pivotal in revolutionizing the black hair care industry, negotiating business deals that opened the door for a new wave of black created and owned hair and beauty product lines to be sold in major retailers including Target, Walmart and Walgreens.\n\nAccording to the 2010 United States Census, there are 185,595 people of Native African or African-American and Asian descent in the United States. Reports further offer the following break-down of all groups having Native African or African-American and Asian descent:\n\nCurrently, Afro-Asian births are on the rise resulting from the arrival of African students in cities such as Nanjing, Hangzhou, and Shanghai. Another contributing factor is the strengthened trade relationships between Africa and China which have invited an influx of African immigrants into China, primarily Nigerians who have formed a small, yet progressive, community in the country. In October 2010, Chinese officials estimated about 500 mixed marriages between Africans and Chinese. In places such as Guangzhou, a progressive population of about 10,000 African entrepreneurs continue to thrive.\n\nChina's new emerging population of Afro-Asians also includes Pate and Lamu Island descendants of ancient shipwrecked Chinese explorers. Awarded Chinese citizenship by the Chinese government, many students have been provided full scholarships to universities in China. Among China's most famous Afro-Asian natives are Shanghai-born Lou Jing who, in 2009, garnered national gossip as she rose to fame competing on popular reality TV show Dragon TV's \"Go Oriental Angel\" and half South African and half Chinese volleyball player Ding Hui.\n\nThe more recently emerged Afro-Asian population, the Siddi, resulting from the slave trade under Muslim, Portuguese, and British occupation in India between the 7th and 19th centuries. Under a slightly different slave system from that of the Atlantic slave trade, slaves usually worked as domestics, tradesmen or military personnel and were encouraged to assimilate and intermarry within the existing population. With their own unique cultural identity, the population is about 50,000 strong. About a third of the Siddi reside in the state of Karnataka.\n\nAmong the ethnic Hazara people who were descendants of Mongol invaders who mixed with the Iranian population it detected Sub-Saharan African lineages in both the paternal and maternal ancestry of Hazara. Among the Hazara's there are 7.5% of African mtDNA haplogroup L with 5.1% of African Y-DNA B. The origin and date of when these admixture occurred are unknown but was believed to have been during the slave trades in Afghanistan.\n\nIn recent history, the hike in the African-Japanese population has been linked to the American occupation of Japan following the end of World War II, where African-Japanese children were born through either prostitution or legally binding marriage. Thus, over the years, an increased number of African-American male/Japanese female unions has produced a culturally hybrid Black Japanese-American population living in Japan. Once given preferential treatment during the American military presence in Japan, the currently biracial population faces some severe public backlash and marginalization due to the reemergence of ethnic-based nationalism in Japan. These unions between Asian women and American G.I.s have also contributed to the increase of the Afro-Asian orphan population. In some cases many Asian wives accompanied their husbands in returning to and settling in the United States. Subsequently, many African-Japanese are products of unions between native Japanese and continental Africans due to the increased numbers of immigrant Africans.\n\nNotable African-Japanese include American author and playwright Velina Hasu Houston who was born in territorial waters off the coast of Japan to a native-born Japanese mother of partial Japanese ancestry and an African-American father. Popular American-born enka singer Jero was born into a multi-generational African-Japanese-American family and immigrated back to the birth country of his grandmother. He has become one of the most famous Black/African descendants in the country. There is also native-born wrestler Aja Kong, former professional basketball player Michael Takahashi and pop/R&B singer Thelma Aoyama who were all born to Japanese mothers and African-American fathers. Australian soccer player Tando Velaphi was born to a Japanese mother and a Zimbabwean father.\n\nOther resident Black African descendants famous in Japanese media include native-born ethnic African-American-Korean pop singer Crystal Kay and beauty queen Ariana Miyamoto.\n\nMost Afro-Asians in the Philippines are products of foreign military occupation, mainly resulting from African-American G.I. parentage. However, in 2011, \"The Nigerian Family Association\" notified the Republic of the Philippines Department of Foreign Affairs of its formation, opening membership to a growing number interracial Nigerian-Filipino/Filipino-Nigerian families and their children, living in the country.\nAmong the country's most recognizable Afro-Asians are half African-American/Filipino R&B singers Jaya, Mau Marcelo and Luke Mejares.\n\nMixed marriages between ethnic Asians and foreigners are becoming more common in Singapore. While most mixed marriages between ethnic Asians and foreigners involve marriages between Asians and Europeans, some marriages have involved Asians and Africans. Afro-Asians born out of these mixed marriages have added to the mixed race population of Singapore. The 2014 Miss Singapore Universe finalist Ijechi Nazirah Nwaozuzu is Afro-Asian. Her mother is Malay with additional Portuguese, Indian and Chinese ancestry and her father is Nigerian.\n\nCurrently, South Korea has the largest Afro-Asian population in the Far East.\nThe U.S. occupation in South Korea between 1950 and 1954 resulted in a multitude of Afro-Asian births, mostly between Native South Korean women and African-American servicemen. While many of these births have been to married Black/Korean interracial couples, others have been born out-of-wedlock through prostitution. Already facing the dilemma of 85,000 children left homeless throughout the country after the Korean War, South Korea saw a spike in orphaned Black Korean infants.\nOften, the Afro-Korean orphans were purposely starved, as the society deemed mixed-raced children less worthy of food needed by non-mixed Korean children. In some areas, the mixed-raced youth were even denied education. In 1955, the U.S. State Department made a public plea asking American families to open their doors to the ostracized youth and in 1956 the Holt Adoption Program launched a gateway for Christian faith-based adoption of children of G.I. soldiers that also included Eurasian offspring. However, in addition to the race-based discrimination faced in their country of birth, Afro-Korean orphans were still passed over by adopting American families based on skin color preferences. There is also a general stigma placed on Afro-Koreans based on illegitimacy, low socio-economic status, low educational attainment and aesthetics.\n\nSeoul has a non-ethnic Korean and non-Asian population of Black/African descent. Native-born, migrant and immigrant, most in this group have ties to the United States and/or the United States Armed Forces. As a result, some have deeply rooted family ties in South Korea for several generations. The population also includes black continental African immigrants. Many of them work in the South Korean education system as foreign language teachers, mainly teaching English.\n\nOne of South Korea's most notable Afro-Asians is R&B singer Insooni who was born to a Korean mother and an African-American father.\n\nNotable Koreans of Black African descent:\n\nThe Sri Lanka Kaffirs are an ethnic group in Sri Lanka who are partially descended from 16th century Portuguese traders and Bantu slaves with additional admixture from ethnic Sri Lankans who were brought by them to work as labourers and soldiers to fight against the Sinhala Kings. They are very similar to the Zanj-descended populations in Iraq and Kuwait, and are known in Pakistan as Sheedis and in India as Siddis. The Kaffirs spoke a distinctive creole based on Portuguese, the Sri Lanka Kaffir language, now extinct. Their cultural heritage includes the dance styles Kaffringna and Manja and their popular form of dance music Baila.\n\nThe term Kaffir is said to mean 'non-believer'. It does not hold the same meaning in Sri Lanka as it does in countries like South Africa, where it is used as a racial slur.\n\nDuring the Vietnam War, African-American servicemen had children with local Vietnamese women. Some of these children were abandoned by the Vietnamese family or sent to orphanages. Many orphans and children were airlifted to adopting families in the United States in 1975 during \"Operation Babylift\" before the fall of South Vietnam. The Afro-Vietnamese (or Afro-Amerasian) children suffered much discrimination in Vietnam at that time. There was also some controversy as to how these orphaned Afro-Amerasian children were placed in new homes in the United States.\n\nThe Siddis or Makranis are an ethnic group inhabiting India and Pakistan. Members are descended from Bantu peoples from the African Great Lakes region. Some were merchants, sailors and mercenaries. Others were indentured servants, but the vast majority were brought to the South Asia as slaves by Arab and Portuguese merchants. The Siddi community is currently estimated at around 20,000–55,000 individuals in :Makran and :Karachi in Pakistan as the main population centres. Siddis are primarily Sufi Muslims.\n\nNarang et al. (2011) examined the autosomal DNA of Siddis in Pakistan. According to the researchers, about 58% of the Siddis' ancestry is derived from Bantu peoples. The remainder is associated with local Indo-European-speaking North and Northwest Indian populations, due to recent admixture events. However, Guha et al. (2012) observed few genetic differences between the Makrani of Pakistan and adjacent populations. According to the authors, the genome-wide ancestry of the Makrani was essentially the same as that of the neighboring Indo-European speaking Balochi and Dravidian-speaking Brahui.\n\nAccording to The World Factbook, around 10% of Saudi Arabia's population is of Afro-Asian descent. Most Afro-Asians living in Saudi Arabia are Afro-Arabs, who occasionally face discrimination due to their dark skin. Marriages between native Saudi Arabs and black Africans are quite common in Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe British Mixed-Race population includes some Afro-Asian people. This ancestry may stem from a multi-generational mixed Caribbean lineage, as well as interracial unions between Africans and Asians from prominent populations such as British Nigerians and British Indians. Notable Afro-Asian Britons include multigenerational Afro-Chinese-Caribbean descended Naomi Campbell, first-generation biracial Iranian-Ghanaian descended actress Freema Agyeman and first-generation biracial Indo-Caribbean descended musician David Jordan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52209686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52209686", "title": "All Them Witches", "text": "All Them Witches\n\nAll Them Witches are an American rock band from Nashville, Tennessee. The band consists of drummer Robby Staebler, vocalist, bassist, guitarist Charles Michael Parks Jr. and guitarist Ben McLeod. Keyboardist Jonathan Draper left the group in October 2018.\n\nAll Them Witches' debut album \"Our Mother Electricity\" was released in 2012 from Elektrohasch. Soon after came their EP, \"Extra Pleasant\", which was recorded with two microphones directly to a 4 track cassette tape recorder. In 2013, the band's second studio album, \"Lightning at the Door\", was originally self-released via their own Bandcamp page, and later marketed by Tone Tree Music. \"Lightning At The Door\" was re-released in 2016 by their new label, New West Records, who they signed to in summer 2015. In February 2015, the band released the official live album \"At The Garage\". Later in the year, they self-released their third studio album \"Dying Surfer Meets His Maker\", which was recorded in six days in a remote cabin in Tennessee and received a score of 72 on Metacritic. Their fourth studio album \"Sleeping Through the War\" was released in February 2017 on New West Records. On May 3rd, 2018 it was announced that Jonathan Draper was replacing Allan Van Cleeve on keyboards. In an interview at Download Festival 2018, Ben and Robby made clear that the change was permanent and that Allan had left the band. In October 2018, Parks announced that the band would continue as a three piece without Draper. \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24000751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24000751", "title": "Bachelor of Electrical Engineering", "text": "Bachelor of Electrical Engineering\n\nBachelor of Electrical Engineering (B.E.E. or BEE) is an undergraduate academic degree offered to a student who completes three to five years of study in electrical engineering at a university or college. Many institutes offer Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering (B.S.E.E. or B.Sc.E.E.) or Bachelor of Engineering in Electrical Engineering (B.E.E.E.). Program duration varies throughout the world depending upon the education curriculum. For example, in US, this course requires four (4) years to complete. On the other hand, in UK, it takes three (3) years to complete. In some countries, it takes five (5) years to complete. Study topics normally covered in this course are Direct Current, Alternating Current, Electrical Machines, AC & DC Motors, Transformers, Generators, Rotating Devices, Power Engineering, Power Transmission and Power Distribution etc.\n"}
{"id": "13658325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13658325", "title": "Beyond the Fall of Night", "text": "Beyond the Fall of Night\n\nBeyond the Fall of Night (1990) is a novel by Arthur C. Clarke and Gregory Benford. The first part of \"Beyond the Fall of Night\" is a reprint of Clarke’s \"Against the Fall of Night\" while the second half is a \"sequel\" by Gregory Benford that takes place many years later. This book is unrelated to \"The City and the Stars\" which is an expanded version of \"Against the Fall of Night\" which Clarke wrote himself three years after the publication of \"Against the Fall of Night\".\n\nJames Nicoll described \"Beyond the Fall of Night\" as \"an atrocity\" and \"an abomination\", saying that it is \"not just a bad book, the events in it can not happen\ngiven the events in [\"Against\"]\", and that the only thing it had in common with \"Against\" was \"some character names\".\n\nThe 1990 novella \"Beyond the Fall of Night\" was later expanded into the novel \"Beyond Infinity,\" with additional material and a change in the name and gender of the character.\n"}
{"id": "55833800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55833800", "title": "Bhoma", "text": "Bhoma\n\nIn a Balinese temple architecture, a Bhoma is a carved or formed grotesque which decorates certain parts in the Balinese temple complex. The statue is similar to the Javanese Kala, and was intended to protect the temple complex from malevolent spirit.\n\nIn Balinese mythology, Bhoma is the son of Dewa Wisnu and Dewi Pertiwi, the god of rain and the goddess of earth. One day, when Wisnu was digging the earth in the form of Varaha, his avatar in the form of a wild boar, he encountered a beautiful earth goddess named Dewi Pertiwi. The encounter leads to a union between Wisnu and Pertiwi, which produce a terrifying son named Bhoma. \n\nThe story of Wisnu as a wild boar digging up to the bottom of the earth to meet Pertiwi symbolizes torrents of stormy rainwater entering the earth. The figure of Bhoma that was produced by this union is seen as the growth of vegetation or forest (Vanaspati) as a result of the earth receiving the (rain) water. In Javanese and Balinese culture, Vanaspati is the king of the plant, not different with the European Green Man. The word Bhoma came from the Sanskrit word \"bhaumá\", which means something that grows or is born from earth or something related to the earth. \n\nBhoma is basically the Balinese kirtimukha. In Balinese temple architecture, Bhoma has the same function as the Javanese Kala which act as a guardian spirit of the temple complex. The head of Bhoma can be found carved at the temple gate which marks the entrance to the holiest part of the shrine (paduraksa) and at the base of the padmasana, the holiest and most central shrine in the Balinese temple.\n\nThe Padmasana is the holiest shrine in a Balinese temple complex. The padmasana is attributed to the Supreme God, the Sang Hyang Widhi Wasa). Like many religious constructions in Indonesia, the shrine padmasana is divided into three sections, from the base to the top, the \"bhur\" (world of demons), \"bhuwah\" (world of men), and \"swah\" (world of gods). The head figure of Bhoma normally added the base of the padmasana, together with other monstrous figures e.g. the Bedawang Nala, the world-supporting turtle, and the two snakes, Anantaboga, and Basuki, a symbol of man's earthly needs. In this context, the head of Bhoma at the base of the padmasana symbolizes the forest which surrounds the foot of a mountain (\"batur pepalihan\"). \n\nIn some Balinese houses, the doorway to some enclosed pavilion (e.g. the \"bale meten\") is decorated with ornaments to form ventilation grill which is sometimes paneled. This is usually topped with a decorative frieze, which is sometimes carved in the form of the Bhoma's head.\n\nThe head of Bhoma is also seen in the Balinese cremation towers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6962002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6962002", "title": "British Institute for the Study of Iraq", "text": "British Institute for the Study of Iraq\n\nThe British Institute for the Study of Iraq (BISI) (formerly the British School of Archaeology in Iraq) is the only body in Britain devoted to research into the ancient civilizations and languages of Mesopotamia. It was founded in 1932 and its aims are to support and undertake research into the archaeology (and cognate subjects) of Iraq and the neighbouring countries from the earliest times to c. AD 1700, and to promote the cultural heritage of Iraq. Since 1934, the School has published a refereed journal, \"Iraq\", which is now published annually, in November/December of each year.\n\nIt is a registered charity and has its headquarters in the office of the British Academy at Carlton House Terrace in London. \n\nThe School was founded in 1932 as a memorial to the life and works of Gertrude Bell. Bell was passionate about archaeology and bequeathed £6,000 for its founding when she died in 1926. Further fundraising in 1929 added £14,000, and although the Great Depression left the fund depleted, the school was established in 1932. Its initial purpose was to fund excavations by archaeologists and provide scholarship to British students working on archaeological projects in Iraq. \n\nThe School carried out excavations in Iraq before the Second World War. Activities resumed in 1948, and the School worked continuously from then until 1990. Since then the School has been prevented by political circumstances from resuming its research activities. However, friendly relations with the Iraqi Department of Antiquities and contact with Iraqi colleagues have been maintained, mainly through private visits. \n\nThe School was funded by a grant from the British Government starting in 1946, which allowed it to establish a base in Baghdad. Its first director was Max Mallowan whose wife was Agatha Christie who wrote \"Murder in Mesopotamia\". Among the notable projects the school was involved in was the excavation at Nimrud.\n\nIn the aftermath of 2003 invasion of Iraq, the school devoted its resources to assisting in the rebuilding of Iraq’s heritage. Funding from the British government however halved in 2007, and then stopped completely in 2009. It is now supported by the British Museum. The school also receives an income from private sources. It currently has about 650 subscribing members. It is governed by a Council, which meets in London and is elected annually by the members, under Regulations approved by the original members in 1932 but recently revised. \n\nOn 12 December 2007 the organization's name was changed to The British Institute for the Study of Iraq. It also broadened it scope to promoting Iraqi cultural heritage and engaging in partnerships and collaborations with Iraqi archaeologists. Since the 1990s it has also funded Iraqi students studying in Britain. It helped in the creation of the Basra Museum opened in 2016.\n\nIn 2011 the BISI sold one third of its collection of Nimrud Ivories, discovered between 1949 and 1963 in excavations led by Sir Max Mallowan, to the British Museum for £1.17million. Another third was donated to the British Museum in recognition of the storage of the collection by the museum over the previous 24 years. It is anticipated that the remaining third of the collection will be returned to Iraq sometime in the future. A selection of the ivories was put on display at the British Museum in 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49393422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49393422", "title": "Chinese Music Charts", "text": "Chinese Music Charts\n\nChinese Music Charts (Chinese: 华语音乐排行榜) is a Mandopop record chart established by Chinese Musicians Association, Chinese Radio Union, HUAYINSHENGSHI, and music newspaper Musiclife.\n"}
{"id": "25707018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25707018", "title": "Concision", "text": "Concision\n\nConcision (alternatively brevity, laconicism, terseness, or conciseness) is the cutting out of unnecessary words while conveying an idea. It aims to enhance communication by eliminating redundancy without omitting important information. Concision has been described as one of the elementary principles of writing. The related concept of succinctness is the opposite of verbosity.\n\nConcision means to be economical with words, expressing what's needed using the fewest words necessary. That may involve removing redundant or unnecessary phrases or replacing them with shorter ones. It is described in \"The Elements of Style\" by Strunk and White as follows:\n\nConcision has also been described as \"eliminat[ing] words that take up space without saying much.\" Simple examples include replacing \"\" with \"because\" or \"at this point in time\" with \"now\" or \"currently.\"\n\nAn example sentence, with explanation:\n\nThe following example is taken from:\n\nThe source suggests this replacement:\n\nIn the second quote, the same information is communicated in less than half the length. However, it could be more concisely rewritten and communicate the same information:\n\nConcise expression, particularly in writing, is considered one of the basic goals of teaching the English language. Techniques to achieve concise writing are taught for students at all levels, from the introduction to writing to the preparation of PhD dissertations, and legal writing for law students.\n\nIt has been argued that although \"in expository prose English places a high value on conciseness... [t]he value placed on conciseness... is not shared by all cultures\", with, for example, the Thai culture as one where redundancy is prized as an opportunity to use additional words to demonstrate the writer's command of the language. This may lead to a tendency for people from those cultures to use repetitive or redundant phrasing when learning English.\n\nThe related concept of succinctness is a characteristic of speech, writing, data structure, algorithmic games, and thought in general, exhibiting both clarity and brevity. It is the opposite of verbosity, in which there is an excess of words.\n\nBrevity in succinctness is not achieved by shortening original material by coding or compressing it, but rather by omitting redundant material from it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45540952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45540952", "title": "Conservation and restoration of musical instruments", "text": "Conservation and restoration of musical instruments\n\nThe conservation and restoration of musical instruments is an action done by conservator-restorers trained to preserve or protect historical and current musical instruments.\n\nMusical instrument conservation, at least by the date of the earliest reference acquired, originates from 1862 when “a letter was written by Antonio Stradivari, who not only \nrepaired his own instruments but also those of other makers, for Count Cesare Castelbarco about how\nto conserve his many Stradivari instruments.” Conservation practices of musical instruments follow the same guidelines as the numerous other artifacts in museum collections. During conservation, it is important to document the pre-conservation state and then the progress after those conservation actions have been completed. In order to protect musical instruments for the future, it is best to keep the collection in the most climate-controlled area.\n\nIt is important to realize that even though many instruments have to be rebuilt after a certain period of time has passed, it is acceptable to play them if they are supervised by a musical instrument conservator. Musical instrument conservation is unique because the artifacts are played and they produce sound. These instruments were historically made over the centuries to entertain all kinds of people, from royalty to the average person.\n\nThere are many similarities between musical instrument conservation and art work protection. Like a conservator working to restore the color saturation of the water lilies in a Claude Monet painting, conservators must keep in mind the instrument maker’s integrity when cleaning or restoring any type of musical instrument (for example, luthiers create guitars and violins for guitarists or violinists), as well as the standardized policies or ethics of art conservation. According to the Code of Ethics, “II. All actions of the conservation professional must be governed by an informed respect for the cultural property, its unique character and significance, and the people or person who created it.” Both art conservation and musical instrument conservation require a lot of attention to detail, patience, and respect for the item or artist(s). The conservator should also be highly trained in the medium in which these items were created. For example, wood preservation or acrylic on canvas.\n\nIn general, art works are static and not moving whereas musical instruments are basically an active art tool for producing the sounds notated on sheet music in various keys or tempos. Although some art objects may have more than one use and move periodically from its home institution to another museum on loan (besides providing cultural satisfaction), instruments are subject to: travel or wear and tear consistently due to continual playing. Musical instruments create art by producing sound because the human hand touches their skins, strings, bows, fret board or keys. Musical instruments are generally used on a regular basis, during recitals and concerts by all levels of musicians.\n\nAn instrumentalist needs to keep in mind how to play their instrument carefully so that they can preserve the integrity of the instrument. That being stated, each musician performs with an instrument differently, creating their own personality and take on the capabilities of that particular instrument (ex. Louis Armstrong and his trumpet). In a sense, the partnership between instrumentalist and instrument defines them both. “Players demand certain kinds of physical responses from an instrument, and players and listeners alike have certain preferences about the tone produced.”\n\nDespite how long musical instruments should last, it is important to try to maintain their playable conditions as long as possible. Similarly to automobiles that have been used on a daily basis over the years, musical instruments do not sound the same or work in the same manner that they once did when they were new. Parts wear out and at times just need to be replaced. On a side note, the average lifespan of instruments depends on the classification of them: “woodwinds or brass instruments last about twenty years, while pianos last about 100 years, and string instruments for a maximum of 200 years.\" With proper conservation techniques used on instruments, they will be able to last longer than their projected lifespans.\n\nSome music composed during the 18th century by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart was for the harpsichord, and if this music is to be historically understood it must be heard on an instrument of the original time period. The Smithsonian has maintained a harpsichord that some of the resident curators can periodically play. This can be seen via the short YouTube video entitled, “Play it Again.” Although these Mozart compositions could be played on a piano, they would not sound the same as a harpsichord when a musician performs the piece.\nEnvironmental obligations exist for both musical instrument creators and conservators. This is because the materials used in instrument creation, like wood, can be on the endangered species list. “Many species of rosewood and ebony are endangered, but the wood is still easily purchased.’ ‘Some timbers and materials used by luthiers has legal restrictions, especially when crossing international boundaries.” There appears to be a mission to conserve both art or cultural artifacts and environmental conservation in the realm of musical instrument conservation.\n\nAccording to the Heritage Preservation’s Caring for Your Family Treasures: A Concise guide to caring for your cherished belongings by Jane S. Long and Richard W. Long, the following eight steps are something to remember when trying to preserve one’s instrument(s):\n\n\nIn some museums, the climate controlled system in the galleries or entire architecture of the institution may need to be revamped or even replaced (depending on the age of the institution). A collections manager, or another employee from the collections department, should check to see what should be upgraded in the climate controlled system by walking around the museum and checking the status of the collection. It is their duty, along with the artifact conservators, to keep the collection safe. “Since there are over 8,000 different combinations of climate control design choices in the commercial marketplace today, it is a team process which can be divided into the three following steps: classify envelope, identify heat loads, and perform moisture inventory.” If a space is too warm, wooden instruments may warp.\n\nSince musical instruments are compiled of many organic materials such as: wood, metal, or plastic; it makes it difficult to preserve them if they are constantly on display in a museum. “Paper, leather, wood, natural fibers, and other organic materials absorb moisture; if they are kept in non-climate-controlled environments, serious conservation problems arise.” These dilemmas could include corrosion or buckling. That is why it is important to keep humidity down and at a constant temperature. Remember; “Technical assistance from specialists in heating and ventilating engineering, the museum environment, and the conservation of musical instruments should always be sought before any major changes are considered.”\n\n Similarly to how sunlight could damage the human eye, direct sunlight is harmful to artifacts too. Light makes colors fade and breaks down organic materials quickly. It is generally best not to place any artifact in a collection in direct light, whether it is natural or artificial. “Light damage is a commonly identified problem in collections, and is the subject of vast literature.”\n\n Generally speaking, if an instrument is hung on a wall for display, it probably is rather stable because it is not moving. For musical instruments that “belong to a study or teaching collection, or… simply be in a drawer that experiences a great deal of in-and-out movement during examination of other specimens,” they are more at risk of being damaged because more people are interacting with them. Therefore, it is best to create limits for either human interaction or accessibility. Even easy-gliding and organized shelving could come in handy.\n\n There are always pollutants in the air of museums located in a cityscape, but for rural museums, the amount could be less. The following are four of Barclay's steps to protect a museum’s collection from harmful air. First, “install air filters in the building.” Second, “absorbent cloth, charcoal and similar materials can be placed in storage cabinets or display cases to absorb pollutants.” Third, “keeping metal artifacts dry retards corrosion.” Lastly, “protective coatings are occasionally applied to metal instruments.”\n\nPest control is more closely associated with climate control measures because one effects the other. Many instruments are made of wood, including: guitars, violins, violas, pianos, harpsichords, banjos, cellos, basses, etc. Therefore, wood eating insects could damage them if left in a dark, damp, and drafty space. A careful way to get rid of the infestation is through “asphyxiation by carbon dioxide or nitrogen [because they] are the preferred methods, although some work still has to be done on the effects of changes in moisture content of artifacts during treatment.”\n\nAccording to Robert Barclay, the following are a list of the top five reasons for functional restoration. First, a restoration can be completed if “the instrument is mass-produced.” Second, if “the instrument has been previously restored and most ephemera has been lost.” Third, with a little bit of work from a conservator, “the instrument can easily be put into working condition.” Fourth, “the original function can be reestablished.” Lastly, if “the instrument is in sturdy condition,” then it could be conserved.\n\nBarclay also mentions some explanations for not functionally restoring musical instruments and the top five reasons are as follows. First a musical instrument should not be conserved if “the instrument is unique.” Second, work should not be completed if “the original ephemeral features will be lost or altered.” Third, the way the instrument could be played is unknown or “the function is obscure and unlikely to be determined as a result of restoration.” Fourth, “the condition of the instrument is such that an accurate achievement of its original quality of function is unlikely.” Lastly, if “the function is so well understood that no new information is likely to be gained.”\n\nPlayability depends on the overall strength of the architecture of the instrument as well as the musician’s interpretation or technique of a musical score. There are always two sides to every story: those for restoring musical instruments and those that are against. “The opponents of restoration argue that the truly authentic instrument is a reproduction of that relic, to the best of present knowledge and ability, in a state equivalent to what it was when new.’ ‘A great deal of progress could result from making a distinction between “soundability” and playability, where the former can often be achieved without any prerequisite restoration.” Therefore, who in the cultural artifact conservation world draws the line between “soundability ” and playability?\n\nThere are around a handful of different classification systems known for musical instruments. From the 1960s, Curt Sachs and Erich Moritz von Hornbostel’s system for the Classification of Musical Instruments is divided into two main sections with several subcategories. The first section is “Idiophones- musical instruments in which vibrating solid material (ex. stone, wood, and metal) is used to produce sound and are differentiated according to how you make it vibrate.” The subcategories are as follows: \n\nThe second main section is “Membranophones- musical instruments that have vibrating membranes or skin that produce sound and are classified according to the instrument’s shape.” The subcategories are as follows: \n\n Similarly to the document(s) that a museum registrar might use to catalog an artifact into a collection, it is important to keep the proper paperwork during the conservation process being done on a musical instrument. (If interested, there is also an example of a museum condition report right here from the Cleveland Museum of Contemporary Art. Additionally by taking before and after camera shots, it helps to document the steps taken by the conservator (or the rest of the conservation staff) while working on an instrument and the progress made during the duration of the project. A checklist could also help conservators stay focused on the task at hand trying to restore a particular musical instrument. But each plan is different for the conservation process depending on how severely wounded the instrument in question may be.\n\n"}
{"id": "49462955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49462955", "title": "Cultural policy research", "text": "Cultural policy research\n\nCultural Policy Research (or Cultural Policy Studies) is a field of academic inquiry that grew out of Cultural Studies in the 1990s. A quarter of a century later, by now both “Cultural Policy Research” and \"Cultural Policy Studies\" each match almost 100 million entries in the World Wide Web.\n\nCultural Policy Research grew out of the idea that cultural studies should not only be critical, but also try to be useful. The Princeton University e.g. founded its Center for Arts and Cultural Policy Studies 1994 “to improve the clarity, accuracy and sophistication of discourse about the nation's artistic and cultural life.”\n\nThe scientific approach is genuinely interdisciplinary, combining social sciences, a wide range of the humanities, jurisprudence and economics. As all political sciences do, the research focuses on the content dimension (), the formal-institutional dimension () and the practical dimension (), particularly affecting decision processes and the results obtained. Cultural Policy Research asks: What do the s and s in the Cultural Policy sphere actually do when they do what they do? Which purposes they do pursue by that? What are their goals and which means do they use? What is the result of their action for society and for the citizens’ intellectual and artistic freedom?\n\nAmong the many departments of Cultural Policy Studies around the world, there are several UNESCO Chairs in Cultural Policy from the programme launched in 1992 by the UNESCO to promote international inter-university cooperation:\n\n\n\n\"The European Journal of Cultural Policy\" (1994 - 1997), now named \"International Journal of Cultural Policy\" (1997 - current) edited by the \"Centre for Cultural Policy Studies\" University of Warwick.\n"}
{"id": "18374486", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18374486", "title": "Eating Raoul (musical)", "text": "Eating Raoul (musical)\n\nEating Raoul is a musical with music by Jed Feuer, lyrics by Boyd Graham, and a book by Paul Bartel and Richard Blackburn. It is based on the 1982 movie of the same name.\n\nThe story focuses on Mary and Paul Bland, a couple of \"squares\", in the late 1960s, who want to raise money to open a restaurant. They decide to kill swingers for profit by hitting them on the head with a frying pan. They become involved with a partner, Raoul, their swarthy, sexy janitor, who helps them to dispose of the bodies. However, they soon feel trapped by Raoul and dispatch him too; he becomes the main course.\n\nThe musical opened Off-Broadway at the Union Square Theatre on May 13, 1992, starring Courtenay Collins, Eddie Korbich and Adrian Zmed. It was directed by Toni Kotite and choreographed by Lynne Taylor-Corbett. Since then it has received numerous regional productions.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "994228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=994228", "title": "Environmental racism", "text": "Environmental racism\n\nEnvironmental racism is a term used to describe environmental injustice that occurs in practice and in policy within a racialized context. \n\nIn 1982, the term was coined by Benjamin Chavis, who was the then executive director of the United Church of Christ (UCC) Commission for Racial Justice, in response to the dumping of hazardous PCB waste in a town in Warren County, North Carolina. The UCC and US General Accounting Office (GAO) reports on this case in NC brought public attention to the strong association between locations of hazardous waste sites and poor minority neighborhoods. Early activists in environmental racism, Chavis and Robert Bullard pointed out institutionalized racism stemming from government and corporate policies that led to environmental racism. Practices like redlining, zoning, and colorblind adaptation planning, and factors that inhibit residents from preventing these practices include their low socioeconomic status, and lack of political representation and mobility that all contribute to environmental racism. \n\nEnvironmental racism can be explained through a number of ways and in most cases usually include four unique patterns. The first one includes exposure to hazardous waste. It can also be identified by determining how vulnerable a community is to issues like flooding. The accessibility of potable water can also help in measuring environmental justice. Finally, a discriminatory waste management program can also be considered a case of environmental injustice. Some social scientists have argued that some causes of environmental racism are intentional, for example, the dumping of hazardous waste in a minority community.  Apart from intentional reasons, this kind of racism can also be caused by structural and institutional elements. Chavis defined environmental racism in five categories. First, he termed it as racial discrimination in defining environmental policies. He also stated that this occurs when these regulations and laws are being enforced. He further stated that it is the deliberate targeting of communities of color as far as dumping of toxic waste is concerned. He also referred to this term as the official sanctioning of dangerous poisons and pollutants in the minority communities. Finally, he termed it as the history of exclusion of people of color from attaining leadership positions in the ecological organizations.  Other activists like Robert Bullard also had their own definition for the term claiming that it refers to any policy or directive that differentially harms people, groups, or even communities based on their color. \n\nIt is also important to understand the factors that can lead to environmental racism and social scientists have identified the four main ones. They include cheap land, the absence of political authority, lack of mobility, and lastly poverty. While corporations can obtain land cheaply because of economic reasons, they can also do that because a community lacks the power to fight such companies. It is also a known fact that minority communities lack political power and this has often worked to their disadvantage. Businesses know that they can do anything in such places without any meaningful resistance. It is worth noting that politicians and lawmakers are very selective on whom they represent, and these are some of the elements that have harmed these communities. Corporations also take advantage of the lack of mobility of these people and pay them minimum wages to limit their mobility even further.  It should be noted that the impoverished nature of these communities contributes to all the above factors because without money people cannot act either physically or politically.\n\nThe acknowledgement of environmental racism prompted the environmental justice social movement that began in the 1970s and 1980s in the United States. Although environmental racism has been historically tied to the environmental justice movement, throughout the years the term has dissociated more and more from the environmental justice movement. In response to cases of environmental racism, grassroots organizations and campaigns have brought more attention to environmental racism in policy making and emphasize the importance of having input from minorities in policy making. Although environmental racism was coined in the US, it also occurs on the international level. Examples include the exportation of hazardous wastes to poor countries in the Global South with lax environmental policies and safety practices (pollution havens). Marginalized communities that do not have the socioeconomic and political means to oppose large corporations are at risk to environmentally racist practices that are detrimental and sometimes fatal to humans.Economic statuses and political positions are crucial factors when looking at environmental problems because they determine where a person lives. People who do not have those privileges are usually the ones who suffer from environmental problems. \n\nEnvironmental racism crosses boundaries of countries and is addressed below in the context of environmental racism that has occurred outside of the US, where the term was coined.\n\nIn the United States, the first report to draw a relationship between race, income, and risk of exposure to pollutants was the Council of Environmental Quality's \"Annual Report to the President\" in 1971, in response to toxic waste dumping in an African American community in Warren County, NC. After protests in Warren County, North Carolina, the U.S. General Accounting Office (GAO) issued a report on the case in 1983, and the United Church of Christ (UCC) commissioned a report exploring the concept in 1987 drawing a connection between race and the placement of the hazardous waste facilities. Thus, the outcry in Warren County was an important event in spurring minority, grassroots involvement in the environmental justice movement by addressing cases of environmental racism. One activist, Benjamin Chavis, who at the time was the executive director of the Commission for Racial Justice of the United Church of Christ coined the term \"environmental racism\" 1982 in response to the case.\n\nFrom the groundbreaking reports on environmental racism in Warren County, NC, the accumulation of studies and reports on cases of environmental racism and injustices garnered increased public attention in the US, and eventually led to President Bill Clinton's 1994 Executive Order 12898. This was a historical step in addressing environmental injustice on a policy level, especially within a predominantly white-dominated environmentalism movement.\n\nEnvironmental racism was coined in the US but also exists on an international scale between countries in the Global North and Global South, and between different races and ethnicities on different continents. Corporations in the Global North often produce dangerous chemicals banned in the United States and export them to developing countries, or send waste materials to countries with less stringent environmental laws. While the US approach to environmental racism emphasizes race-based discrimination and structures policies to provide equal treatment, the European approach to environmental racism focuses on changing the social conditions that result in inequality. \n\nCost-benefit analysis (CBA) is a process that places a monetary value on costs and benefits to evaluate issues. Environmental CBA aims to provide policy solutions for intangible products such as clean air and water by measuring a consumer's willingness to pay for these goods. CBA contributes to environmental racism through the valuing of environmental resources based on their utility to society. The more someone is willing to pay for a resource such as clean water or air benefits society more than when people are not willing to pay for these goods. This creates a burden on poorer areas, however, by relocating toxic wastes and other environmentally hazardous goods through the justification that they are not willing (or able) to pay as much as a wealthier area for a clean environment. The placement of toxic wastes near poor people lowers the property value of already cheap land. Since the decrease in property value is less than that of a cleaner, wealthier area the monetary benefits to society are greater by dumping the toxic waste in a \"low-value\" area.\n\nChavis defined the term as \"racial discrimination in environmental policy making, the enforcement of regulations and laws, the deliberate targeting of communities of color for toxic waste facilities, the official sanctioning of the life-threatening presence of poisons and pollutants in our communities, and the history of excluding people of color from leadership of the ecology movements.\" Expanding the definition in \"The Legacy of American Apartheid and Environmental Racism,\" Robert Bullard describes the environmental racism \"refers to any policy, practice, or directive that differentially affects or disadvantages (whether intended or unintended) individuals, groups, or communities based on race or color.\"\n\nThere are four unique patterns that help identify and measure environmental injustice. Exposure to hazardous waste, how vulnerable a community is to flooding, how accessible potable water is, and discriminatory waste management processes.\n\nWhile some social scientists view the siting of hazardous facilities in minority communities as a demonstration of intentional racism, others view the causes of environmental racism as structural and institutional.\n\nThere are four factors leading to environmental racism: cheap land, lack of political power, lack of mobility, and finally poverty. First, cheap land is sought for economic reasons but cheap land can also be found due to lack of power in the community to resist the corporation. Second, the lack of political power carried by poor minority groups allow businesses to act with little to no resistance. Politicians and lawmakers are able to better understand communities that have the resources to make their beliefs known, unlike impoverished minority communities. Third, the lack of mobility provides a stream of workers who can be paid minimum wage and thus do not have the funds to leave the now hazardous community. Finally, the overall communities lack of money contributes to all the factors listed above and overall reduces the communities ability to act both physically and politically.\n\nIn the United States, correlation between the sites of hazardous waste facilities and low-income and minority communities was publicly addressed in the 1983 U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) report in response to the Warren County, NC protests. Minority communities do not have the financial means, resources, and political representation to oppose hazardous waste sites. They also may depend on the economic opportunities the site brings and are reluctant to oppose its location at the risk of their health. Additionally, controversial projects are less likely to be sited in non-minority areas that are expected to pursue collective action and succeed in opposing the siting of hazardous waste sites and sewage treatment facilities in their area. \n\nProcesses such as suburbanization, gentrification, and decentralization lead to patterns of environmental racism. For example, the process of suburbanization (or white flight) consists of non-minorities leaving industrial zones for safer, cleaner, and less expensive suburban locales. Meanwhile, minority communities are left in the inner cities and in close proximity to polluted industrial zones. In these areas, unemployment is high and businesses are less likely to invest in area improvement, creating poor economic conditions for residents and reinforcing a social formation that reproduces racial inequality. Furthermore, the poverty of property owners and residents in a municipality may be taken into consideration by hazardous waste facility developers since areas with depressed real estate values will cut expenses.\n\nAs a result of the placement of hazardous waste facilities, minority populations experience greater exposure to harmful chemicals and suffer from health outcomes that affect their ability at work and in schools. A comprehensive study of particulate emissions across the United States, published in 2018, found that Blacks were exposed to 54% more particulate matter emissions (soot) than the average American. Faber and Krieg found a correlation between higher air pollution exposure and low performance in schools and found that 92% of children at five Los Angeles public schools with the poorest air quality were of a minority background. School systems for communities heavily populated with minority families tend to provide “unequal educational opportunities” for students of color in comparison to school systems in predominantly white neighborhoods. Pollution consequently presents itself in these communities due to societal factors such as “underfunded schools, income inequality, and myriad egregious denials of institutional support” within the African American community.\nThe Indian Removal Act of 1830 and the Trail of Tears may be considered early examples of environmental racism in the United States. By 1850, all tribes east of the Mississippi had been removed to western lands, essentially confining them to \"lands that were too dry, remote, or barren to attract the attention of settlers and corporations\". Later, during World War II, military facilities were often located conterminous to reservations, leading to a situation in which \"a disproportionate number of the most dangerous military facilities are located near Native American lands\".\n\nMore recently, Native American lands have been used for waste disposal and illegal dumping by the US and multinational corporations. The International Tribunal of Indigenous People and Oppressed Nations, convened in 1992 to examine the history of criminal activity against indigenous groups in the United States, and published a Significant Bill of Particulars outlining grievances indigenous peoples had with the US. This included allegations that the US \"deliberately and systematically permitted, aided, and abetted, solicited and conspired to commit the dumping, transportation, and location of nuclear, toxic, medical, and otherwise hazardous waste materials on Native American territories in North America and has thus created a clear and present danger to the health, safety, and physical and mental well-being of Native American People\".\n\nAn ongoing issue for Native Americans activists is the Dakota Access Pipeline. The pipeline would start in North Dakota and travel to Illinois. Although it does not cross directly on a reservation, the pipeline is under scrutiny because it passes under a section of the Missouri river which is a key water source for Native American tribes including the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe. The pipeline also traverses a sacred burial ground for the Standing Rock Sioux. In 2017, Judge James Boasberg sided with the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe, citing the US Army Corps of Engineers failure to complete a study on the environmental impact of an oil spill in Lake Oahe.\n\nAltgeld Gardens is a 6,000 unit public housing community located in south Chicago that was built in 1945 on an abandoned landfill to accommodate returning African-American World War II veterans. Surrounded by 53 toxic facilities and 90% of the city's landfills, the Altgeld Gardens area became known as a \"toxic doughnut.\" In Altgeld Gardens, 90% of its population are African-American and 65% are below the poverty level. The known toxins and pollutants affecting the Altgeld Gardens area include mercury, ammonia gas, lead, dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane (DDT), polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), heavy metals, and xylene.\n\nIn 1984, a study by Illinois Public Health Sector revealed excessive rates of prostate, bladder, and lung cancer. Additionally, as reported in the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development's seminar on social and environment interface, medical records have indicated (1) high rates of children born with brain tumors, (2) high rates of fetuses that had to be aborted after tests revealed that the brains were developing outside the skull, and (3) higher rates of asthma, ringworm, and other ailments. Despite evidence of health problems, the residents of Altgeld Gardens have not been relocated to another public housing project.\n\nIn Chicago’s Latinx neighborhoods like Little Village, the array coal plants were contributors to respiratory diseases and other health complications during the early twenty-first century. In addition to air pollution, Little Village lacked safe outdoor recreational areas yet housed a County Jail that occupied 96 acres. Despite widespread displeasure among community members, the fact that Latinx regions were primarily populated by working class citizens caused the demand for environmental and community improvement to inevitably come with joint fear of gentrification among activists. Some advocates still fought for environmental improvements regardless of their fear, and when their requests began to come to fruition, like the eventual increase in local green spaces, many residents were left feeling out of place in their homes, which could be attributed to shifts in factors like local police presences, local racial diversity, and overall class of the townsfolk.\n\nRacism and environmental justice unified for the first time during the 1983 citizen opposition to a proposed PCB landfill in Warren County, North Carolina. Illegally, North Carolina state officials decided to bury soil contaminated with toxic polychlorinated biphenyls in Afton, a small town in Warren County. As a result, between June 1978 and August 1978, 30,000 gallons (114 m³) of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB)-contaminated waste were illegally deposited along 210 miles of North Carolina roads. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) declared the PCBs a threat to public health and required the state to remove the polluted waste. In 1979, the North Carolina Department of Environment and Natural Resources and EPA Region 4 selected Warren County as the site to deposit the PCB-contaminated soil that was collected from the roadsides. Warren County is one of the six counties along the \"black belt\" of North Carolina. The counties residing in the \"black belt\" are significantly poorer than the rest of the state. In the early 1980s the residents in Warren County earned an average per capita income of $6,984 compared to $9,283 for the rest of the state. In 1980, the population of Warren County was 54.5% African-American. \n\nIn 1982, the local National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) filed a lawsuit in the district courts to block the landfill. The residents lost the case in court. In September 1982, the outraged citizens of Warren County joined by civil rights groups, environmental leaders, and clergymen protested the first truckloads of PCB contaminated soil. During the protest, over 500 people were arrested and jailed. Despite protests and scientific evidence that the plan would cause drinking water contamination, the Warren County PCB Landfill was built and the toxic waste was placed in the landfill. After nearly two decades of suspected leaks, state and federal sources paid a contractor $18 million to detoxify the PCB contaminated soil in Warren County. Warren County is often cited as the first environmental justice case in the United States; however, this movement started years earlier in 1978 with the discovery of toxic waste in Love Canal, New York.\nOn November 19, 1984, the San Juanico disaster caused thousands of deaths and roughly a million injuries to poor surrounding neighborhoods. The disaster occurred at the PEMEX liquid propane gas plant in a densely populated area of Mexico City. The close proximity of illegally built houses that did not meet regulations worsened the effects of the explosion.\n\nIn 1989, the Louisiana Energy Services (LES), a British, German and American conglomerate, conducted a nationwide search to find the \"best\" site to build a privately owned uranium enrichment plant. The LES claimed to use an objective scientific method to select Louisiana as the \"best\" place to build the plant. In response to the selection, the communities of Homer, Forest Grove and Center Springs that are nearby the proposed site formed a group called Citizens against Nuclear Trash (CANT). With the help of the Sierra Club Legal Defense Fund (later changed to Earth Justice Legal Defense Fund), CANT sued LES for practicing environmental racism. Finally after 8 years, on May 1, 1997, a three-judge panel of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's Atomic Safety and Licensing Board made their final initial decision. The panel found that racial bias did play a role in the selection process. In response to the victory, on May 11, 1997, the London Times declared, \"Louisiana Blacks Win Nuclear War.\" The courts decision was also upheld on appeal on April 4, 1998.\n\nSan Antonio's Kelly Air Force Base (KAFB) is one of the Air Force's major aircraft maintenance facilities and takes up 4000 acres of land, surrounded by residential neighborhoods of primarily Hispanic populations. KAFB maintains various parts of aircraft such as jet engines, and accessory components and even nuclear materials, generating as much as 282,000 tons of hazardous waste each year. Residents of the nearby communities have complained many times of unusual illnesses their children have experienced as well as respiratory illnesses and kidney disease. A 1997 survey done in the residential neighborhoods close to KAFB showed 91% of adults and 79% of children are suffering from conditions ranging from nose, ear, and throat issues to central nervous system disorders. Scientists released information in 1983 revealing that toxic waste had been dumped into an uncovered pit from 1960 to 1973. The waste in the pit contained various chemicals, such as PCB's and DDT, that contaminated groundwater.\n\nAt the time of Hurricane Katrina, 60.5% of New Orleans residents were African American. Pre-existing racial disparities in wealth within New Orleans worsened the outcome of Hurricane Katrina for minority populations. Institutionalized racial segregation of neighborhoods left minority members more likely to live in low-lying areas that were more vulnerable to flooding. Additionally, hurricane evacuation plans relied heavily on the use of cars and did not prepare for people who relied on public transportation. Because minority populations are less likely to own cars, some people had no choice but to stay behind, while white majority communities were able to escape. A report commissioned by the U.S. House of Representatives found that political leaders failed to consider the fact that \"100,000 city residents had no cars and relied on public transit\", and the city's failure to complete its mandatory evacuation led to hundreds of deaths. \n\nIn the months following the disaster, political, religious, and civil rights groups, celebrities, and New Orleans residents spoke out against what they believed was racism on the part of the United States government. After the hurricane, in a meeting held between the Congressional Black Caucus, the National Urban League, the Black Leadership Forum, the National Council of Negro Women, and the NAACP, Black leaders criticized the response of the federal government calling it \"slow and incomplete\" and discussed the role of race in this response. With rising sea levels, lack of mobility of non-white populations in coastal cities like New Orleans foreshadow future unequal impacts of climate change and natural disasters on minority communities.\n\nSince April 2014, residents of Flint, a city that is almost 57 percent black and notably impoverished, have been drinking and bathing in water that contains enough lead to meet the Environmental Protection Agency's definition of \"toxic waste\". Before 2014 when the city of Flint switched to their own river as means of water, Lake Huron provided the area with water. Researchers at Virginia Tech discovered in 2015 that the Flint River is 19 times more corrosive than Lake Huron. Lead contamination can engender multiple health conditions. A November 2015 class-action lawsuit describes how Michigan's Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ) failed to treat the new water source with an anti-corrosive agent, thereby causing the water to become increasingly discolored. This was in violation of the Lead and Copper Rule and MDEQ did not correctly complete the Safe Drinking Water Act mandated lead assessments. Adding that agent (orthophosphate) would have cost $100 per day, according to CNN, and 90 percent of the problems with Flint's water would have been averted if it had been used.\n\nGenerally the consumption of Lead is considered among the environmental problems and some of the ways people can be exposed to it is from the corrosion of old pipes, the dust from lead-based paint and gasoline has metal dust which contains lead; but the amount of lead in gasoline has been reduced and this contributed a lot when it comes to Lead exposure.\n\nAfter an official investigation was conducted, Michigan's attorney general Bill Schuette initially filed charges against three government officials: two state officials of the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, Michael Prysby and Stephen Busch, and a Flint city employee, Michael Glasglow, who was the city's water quality supervisor. They were brought up against felony charges such as \"misconduct, neglect of duty, and conspiracy to tamper with evidence.\" They were also charged with violating the Michigan Safe Water Drinking Act.\nChester, Pennsylvania, provides an example of \"social, political, and economic forces that shape the disproportionate distribution of environmental hazards in poor communities of color.\" Chester is located in Delaware County, an area with a population of 500,000 that, excluding Chester, is 91% white. Chester, however, is 65% African American, with the highest minority population and poverty rate in Delaware County, and recipient of a disproportionate amount of environmental risks and hazards. Chester has five large waste facilities including a trash incinerator, a medical waste incinerator, and a sewage treatment plant. These waste sites in Chester have a total permitted capacity of 2 million tons of waste per year while the rest of Delaware County has a capacity of merely 1,400 tons per year. One of the waste sites located in Chester is the Westinghouse incinerator, which burns all of the municipal waste from the entire county and surrounding states. These numerous waste facilities engender very significant health risks to the citizens of Chester, as the cancer rate in this area is 2.5 times higher than it is anywhere else in Pennsylvania. The mortality rate is 40% higher than the rest of Delaware county.\nDiamond, a small African American community, filed a lawsuit against Shell gas company after years of experiencing toxic emissions from the neighboring refinery. Shell offered to buy out the homes that the residents owned, however, the property value was so low that residents could not get new housing. Eventually after protesting and making the issue a public matter, Shell eventually agreed to relocate the residents (Lerner, 2005).\n\nNorth Carolina is home to 31 coal ash pits that store an expected 111 million tons of harmful waste created by coal-fired power plants. It is also home to many excrement pits, referred to indirectly as \"lagoons,\" that store roughly 10 billion pounds of wet waste created every year by swine, poultry, and dairy cattle in the state. North Carolina's mechanical hog tasks are firmly grouped in a couple of districts on the beach front plain that housed the most subjugated individuals preceding the Civil War. In the decades since, the area has held the state's densest populace of provincial African-American residents.\n\nWilmington, NC is usually one of the first cities hit by hurricanes off the Atlantic coast, and its environmental risks are increased by its proximity to hog farms, nuclear reactors, and coal-ash pits—one of which has already spilled over, due to Hurricane Florence in September 2018. Hog waste spills can be destructive to the individuals who live close to these pits and farms and a significant number of the neighbors are low-income ethnic minorities. African Americans have been battling for their justice in the port city. This can be traced to the Wilmington Rebellion of 1898, when whites stripped away black individuals' rights to cast a ballot and hold office through the power of force, in spite of the significant role African Americans play in building the greater part of the city's monuments. In 1971, racial strains over the absence of protection for African Americans in the threatening integration endeavors prompted a mob and resulted in the capture of several black activists who would later be known as the \"Wilmington Ten.\" One of those activists, Benjamin Chavis, would later turn into a significant figure in the environmental justice movement. Two studies of disease transmission analysts conducted at the University of North Carolina at Sanctuary Slope distributed a paper in 2014 titled: \"Industrial Hog Operations in North Carolina Excessively Effect African-Americans, Hispanics and Native Americans.\" They expressed, \"Flood of waste pits amid overwhelming precipitation occasions results in gigantic spills of animal waste into neighboring networks and conduits.\"\n\nExporting toxic wastes to countries in the Global South is one form of environmental racism that occurs on an international basis. In one alleged instance, the French aircraft carrier Clemenceau was prohibited from entering Alang, an Indian ship-breaking yard, due to a lack of clear documentation about its toxic contents. French President Jacques Chirac ultimately ordered the carrier, which contained tons of hazardous materials including asbestos and PCBs, to return to France.\n\nFrom the mid-1990s until about 2001, it is estimated that some 50 to 80 percent of the electronics collected for recycling in the western half of the United States was being exported for dismantling overseas, predominantly to China and Southeast Asia. This scrap processing is quite profitable and preferred due to an abundant workforce, cheap labour, and lax environmental laws.\n\nGuiyu, China is one of the largest recycling sites for e-waste, where heaps of discarded computer parts rise near the riverbanks and compounds, such as cadmium, copper, lead, PBDEs, contaminate the local water supply. Water samples taken by the Basel Action Network in 2001 from the Lianjiang River contained lead levels 190 times higher than WHO safety standards. Despite contaminated drinking water, residents continue to use contaminated water over expensive trucked-in supplies of drinking water. Nearly 80 percent of children in the e-waste hub of Guiyu, China, suffer from lead poisoning, according to recent reports. Before being used as the destination of electronic waste, most of Guiyu was composed of small farmers who made their living in the agriculture business. However, farming has been abandoned for more lucrative work in scrap electronics. \"According to the Western press and both Chinese university and NGO researchers, conditions in these workers' rural villages are so poor that even the primitive electronic scrap industry in Guiyu offers an improvement in income\".\n\nUnion Carbide Corporation, is the parent company of Union Carbide India Limited which outsources its production to an outside country. Located in Bhopal, India, Union Carbide India Limited primarily produced the chemical methyl isocyanate used for pesticide manufacture. On December 3, 1984, a cloud of methyl isocyanate leaked as a result of the toxic chemical mixing with water in the plant in Bhopal. Approximately 520,000 people were exposed to the toxic chemical immediately after the leak. Within the first 3 days after the leak an estimated 8,000 people living within the vicinity of the plant died from exposure to the methyl isocyanate. Some people survived the initial leak from the factory, but due to improper care and improper diagnoses many have died. As a consequence of improper diagnoses, treatment may have been ineffective and this was precipitated by Union Carbide refusing to release all the details regarding the leaked gases and lying about certain important information. The delay in supplying medical aid to the victims of the chemical leak made the situation for the survivors even worse. Many today are still experiencing the negative health impacts of the methyl isocyanate leak, such as lung fibrosis, impaired vision, tuberculosis, neurological disorders, and severe body pains.\n\nThe operations and maintenance of the factory in Bhopal contributed to the hazardous chemical leak. The storage of huge volumes of methyl isocyanate in a densely inhabited area, was in contravention with company policies strictly practiced in other plants. The company ignored protests that they were holding too much of the dangerous chemical for one plant and built large tanks to hold it in a crowded community. Methyl isocyanate must be stored at extremely low temperatures, but the company cut expenses to the air conditioning system leading to less than optimal conditions for the chemical. Additionally, Union Carbide India Limited never created disaster management plans for the surrounding community around the factory in the event of a leak or spill. State authorities were in the pocket of the company and therefore did not pay attention to company practices or implementation of the law. The company also cut down on preventative maintenance staff to save money. \n\nDue to their lack of environmental laws, emerging countries like Ecuador have been subjected to environmental pollution, sometimes causing health problems, loss of agriculture, and poverty. In 1993, 30,000 Ecuadorians, which included Cofan, Siona, Huaorani, and Quichua indigenous people, filed a lawsuit against Texaco oil company for the environmental damages caused by oil extraction activities in the Lago Agrio oil field. After handing control of the oil fields to an Ecuadorian oil company, Texaco did not properly dispose of its hazardous waste, causing great damages to the ecosystem and crippling communities.\n\nIn Nigeria, near the Niger Delta, cases of oil spills, burning of toxic waste, and urban air pollution are problems in more developed areas. In the early 1990s, Nigeria was among the 50 nations with the world's highest levels of carbon dioxide emissions, which totaled 96,500 kilotons, a per capita level of 0.84 metric tons. The UN reported in 2008 that carbon dioxide emissions in Nigeria totaled 95,194 kilotons.\n\nNumerous webpages were created in support of the Ogoni people, who are indigenous to Nigeria's oil-rich Delta region. Sites were used to protest the disastrous environmental and economic effects of Shell Oil drilling, to urge the boycotting of Shell Oil, and to denounce human rights abuses by the Nigerian government and by Shell. The use of the Internet in formulating an international appeal intensified dramatically after the Nigerian government's November 1995 execution of nine Ogoni activists, including Ken Saro-Wiwa, who was one of the founders of the nonviolent Movement for the Survival of the Ogoni People (MOSOP).\n\nEnvironmental Racism can be traced back around 500 years with the arrival of the Europeans and their displacement of Native Americans.  The Environmental Justice Movement, however, seems to be fairly recent having been rooted around the same time as the Civil Rights Movement.  The Civil Rights Movement influenced the mobilization of people by echoing the empowerment and concern associated with political action.  Here is where the civil rights agenda and the environmental agenda met. Despite this being the case, environmental organizations such as Sierra Club did distance themselves from cases such as the Warren County case likely because of their unwillingness to risk technical support when dealing with a very social issue.\n\nActivists have called for \"more participatory and citizen-centered conceptions of justice.\" The environmental justice (EJ) movement and climate justice (CJ) movement address environmental racism in bringing attention and enacting change so that marginalized populations are not disproportionately vulnerable to climate change and pollution. In the US, change must be made at the federal level, and enacted upon after being passed. This requires not only state and local agencies, but also the involvement of grassroots organizations. According to the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development, one possible solution is the precautionary principle, which states that \"where there are threats of serious or irreversible damage, lack of full scientific certainty shall not be used as a reason for postponing cost-effective measures to prevent environmental degradation.\" Under this principle, the initiator of the potentially hazardous activity is charged with demonstrating the activity's safety. Environmental justice activists also emphasize the need for waste reduction in general, which would act to reduce the overall burden.\n\nConcentrations of ethnic or racial minorities may also foster solidarity, lending support in spite of challenges and providing the concentration of social capital necessary for grassroots activism. Citizens who are tired of being subjected to the dangers of pollution in their communities have been confronting the power structures through organized protest, legal actions, marches, civil disobedience, and other activities. \n\nRacial minorities are often excluded from politics and urban planning (such as sea-level rise adaptation planning) so various perspectives of an issue are not included in policy making that may affect these excluded groups in the future. In general, political participation in African American communities is correlated with the reduction of health risks and mortality. Other strategies in battling against large companies include public hearings, the elections of supporters to state and local offices, meetings with company representatives, and other efforts to bring about public awareness and accountability. \n\nIn addressing this global issue, activists take to various social media platforms to both raise awareness and call to action.  The mobilization and communication between the intersectional grassroots movements where race and environmental imbalance meet has proven to be effective. The movement gained traction with the help of Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, and Snapchat among other platforms.  Celebrities such as Shailene Woodley, who advocated against the Keystone XL Pipeline, have shared their experiences including that of being arrested for protesting. Social media has allowed for a facilitated conversation between peers and the rest of the world when it comes to social justice issues not only online but in face-to-face interactions correspondingly. \n\nStudies have been important in drawing associations and public attention by exposing practices that cause marginalized communities to be more vulnerable to environmental health hazards. The US GAO study in response to the 1982 protests against the PCB landfill in Warren County was among the first groundbreaking studies that drew correlations between the racial and economic background of communities and the location of hazardous waste facilities. Their study, \"Siting of Hazardous Waste Landfills and Their Correlation with Racial and Economic Status of Surrounding Communities,\" revealed that \"three of the four commercial hazardous waste landfills in the Southeast United States were located in majority black communities.\" However, the study was limited in scope by only focusing on off-site hazardous waste landfills in the Southeastern United States. In response to this limitation the United Church of Christ Commission for Racial Justice, or CRJ, directed a comprehensive national study on demographic patterns associated with the location of hazardous waste sites. The CRJ national study conducted two examinations of areas surrounding commercial hazardous waste facilities and the location of uncontrolled toxic waste sites. The first study examined the association between race and socio-economic status and the location of commercial hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facilities. After statistical analysis, the first study concluded that \"the percentage of community residents that belonged to a racial or ethnic group was a stronger predictor of the level of commercial hazardous waste activity than was household income, the value of the homes, the number of uncontrolled waste sites, or the estimated amount of hazardous wastes generated by industry\". The second study examined the presence of uncontrolled toxic waste sites in ethnic and racial minority communities, and found that 3 out of every 5 African and Hispanic Americans lived in communities with uncontrolled waste sites. Other studies like the 1987 \"Toxic Waste and Race in the United States\" by the Commission for Racial Justice found race to be the most influential variable in predicting where waste facilities were located. \n\nDeserting the Perpetrator - Victim Model of studying environmental justice issues, the Economic/Environmental Justice Model utilized a sharper lens to study the many complex factors, accompanied to race, that contributes to the act of environmental racism and injustice. Using this model the role of history and the overlapping of interest groups, stakeholders, and organizations are considered in case studies of environmental racism. For example, Lerner in \"Diamond: A struggle for Environmental Justice in Louisiana's Chemical Corridor\" not only revealed the role of race in the division of Diamond and Norco residents, but he also revealed the historical roles of the Shell Oil Company, the slave ancestry of Diamond residents, and of the history of white workers and families that were dependent upon the rewards of Shell. Involvement of outside organizations, such as the Bucket Brigade and Greenpeace, was also considered in the power that the Diamond community had when battling for environmental justice.\n\nIn wartimes, environmental racism can occur and are unearthed to the public through reports. Examining the Israeli-Palestine conflict, Friends of the Earth International's Environmental Nakba report brings attention to environmental racism that has occurred in the Gaza Strip. Some Israeli practices include cutting off three days of water supply to refugee Palestinians and destructing farms. \n\nBesides studies that point out cases of environmental racism, studies have also provided information on how to go about changing regulations and preventing environmental racism from happening. In a study by Daum, Stoler and Grant on e-waste management in Accra, Ghana, the importance of engaging with different fields and organizations such as recycling firms, communities, and scrap metal traders, to name a few are emphasized over adaptation strategies such as bans on burning and buy-back schemes that have not caused much effect on changing practices.\n\nStudies have also shown that since environmental laws have become prominent in the U.S. as well as Europe so companies have moved their waste towards the global south. The Third World has less of a focus on environmental concerns and therefore are susceptible to more discriminatory practices. This has not stopped activism however it has limited the effects activism has on political restrictions. As these activists push on there are still companies destroying land in these countries with harmful chemicals that are cheaper to use. \n\nManifestations of environmental racism predate the coining of such terminology. Before the 1970s, communities of color recognized this reality and organized against it. For example, the Black Panther Party organized survival programs that confronted the inequitable distribution of trash in predominantly black neighborhoods. Similarly, the Young Lords, a Puerto Rican revolutionary nationalist organization based in Chicago and New York City, protested pollution and toxic refuse present in their community via their Garbage Offensive program. These and other organizations also worked to confront the maldistribution of open spaces, toxic lead paint, and healthy food options. They also offered health programs to those affected by preventable, environmentally induced diseases such as tuberculosis.\nIn this way, these organizations serve as precursors to more pointed movements against environmental racism.\n\nMartin Luther King Jr. helped to bring light to the injustices done to many low-income neighborhoods and the working conditions of African-Americans. In the year before his assassination, Martin Luther King Jr. was in the midst of organizing a protest in Washington to create a bill to help the poor and homeless in the United States. After his assassination  and even with the push of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC), this bill would never come to pass. Latino ranch laborers composed by Cesar Chavez battled for working environment rights, including insurance from harmful pesticides in the homestead fields of California's San Joaquin Valley. In 1967, African-American understudies rioted in the streets of Houston to battle a city trash dump in their locale which had killed two kids. In 1968, occupants of West Harlem, in New York City, battled unsuccessfully against the siting of a sewage treatment plant in their neighborhood. \n\nOne approach in activism is promoting the development and manufacturing of renewable energy sources and the integration of health, economic and preparedness issues into climate policies. However, despite President Bill Clinton’s executive order 12898, there remains differences between policy and action that advocacy groups continue to address.\n\nWith time environmental justice and civil rights movements fused together and as a result environmental justice organizations stood up for more ethnic groups and this increased diversity within the organization. The fusion is very logical since the people who suffer the most are minority groups. One of the main environmental problems that minority groups suffer from is uncontrolled toxic wastes. The factor that initiated environmental justice is the relationship between the geography of minority groups and hazardous waste landfills.\n\nWhen environmental racism became acknowledged in the US society, it stimulated the environmental justice social movement that gained wave throughout the 1970s and 1980s in the US. Historically, the term environmental racism has had ties with the environmental justice movement.  However, this has changed with time to the extent it is believed to lack any associations with the movement. Grassroots organizations and campaigns have sprung up in response to this environmental racism with these groups mainly demanding the inclusion of minorities when it comes to policy making involving the environment. It is also worth noting that this concept is international despite being coined in the US. A perfect example is when the United States exported its hazardous wastes to the poor nations in the Global South because they knew that these countries had lax environmental regulations and safety practices. Marginalized communities are usually at risk of environmental racism because they resource and means to oppose the large companies that dump these dangerous wastes.  As already stated, environmental racism is international, implying that it not only occurs in the United States. \n\nThe export of hazardous waste to third world countries is another growing concern. Between 1989 and 1994, an estimated 2,611 metric tons of hazardous waste was exported from Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) countries to non-OECD countries. Two international agreements were passed in response to the growing exportation of hazardous waste into their borders. The Organization of African Unity (OAU) was concerned that the Basel Convention adopted in March 1989 did not include a total ban on the trans-boundary movement on hazardous waste. In response to their concerns, on January 30, 1991, the Pan-African Conference on Environmental and Sustainable Development adopted the Bamako Convention banning the import of all hazardous waste into Africa and limiting their movement within the continent. In September 1995, the G-77 nations helped amend the Basel Convention to ban the export of all hazardous waste from industrial countries (mainly OECD countries and Lichtenstein) to other countries.\n\nWith globalization and the increase in transnational agreements, introduce possibilities for cases of environmental racism. For example, the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) attracted US-owned factories to Mexico, where toxic waste was abandoned in the Colonia Chilpancingo community and was not cleaned up until activists called for the Mexican government to clean up the waste.\n\nIn the US, the environmental justice movement uses the Civil Rights Act (CRA) of 1964 to combat environmental racism in legal cases. For example, the CRA was used in the 1994 lawsuit against the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transit Authority which failed to provide services for poor LA County residents. In Canada, progress is being made to address environmental racism (especially in Nova Scotia's Africville community) with the passing of Bill 111, An Act to Address Environmental Racism in the Nova Scotia Legislature. \n\nIn response to fatal diesel pollution in the air around ports in Los Angeles and Long Beach in 2006, the San Pedro Bay Ports Clean Air Action Plan, or CAAP, was passed. The action plan was created to reduce pollution caused by ports; specifically, it demanded a 45% decrease in pollution once the proposal was put into action. Another layer of the plan’s objective was to reduce negative environmental impacts from trucks with the initial plans for the Clean Truck Program (CTP), which intended to cut back on the use of shipping trucks from the docks and instead called for purer options like rail yards and warehouses that could hopefully improve the air quality. \n\n"}
{"id": "8312977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8312977", "title": "Fashion show", "text": "Fashion show\n\nA fashion show (French \"défilé de mode\") is an event put on by a fashion designer to showcase their upcoming line of clothing and/or accessories during Fashion Week. Fashion shows debut every season, particularly the Spring/Summer and Fall/Winter seasons. This is where the latest fashion trends are made. The two most influential fashion weeks are Paris Fashion Week and New York Fashion Week, which are both semiannual events.The Milan, London, Sibiu and Berlin fashion weeks are also of global importance.\n\nIn a typical fashion show, models walk the catwalk dressed in the clothing created by the designer. Clothing is illuminated on the runway using various forms of lighting and special effects. The order in which each model walks out wearing a specific outfit, is usually planned in accordance to the statement that the designer wants to make about their collection. It is then up to the audience to not only try to understand what the designer is trying to say, but to also visually deconstruct each outfit and try to appreciate the detail and craftsmanship of every single piece.\n\nOccasionally, fashion shows take the form of installations, where the models are static, standing or sitting in a constructed environment. A wide range of contemporary designers tend to produce their shows as theatrical productions with elaborate sets and added elements such as live music or a variety of technological components like holograms, for example.\nBecause \"the topic of fashion shows remains to find its historian\", the earliest history of fashion shows remains obscure.\n\nIn the 1800s, \"fashion parades\" periodically took place in Paris couture salons.\n\nAmerican retailers imported the concept of the fashion show in the early 1900s. The first American fashion show likely took place in 1903 in the New York City store of the Ehrlich Brothers. By 1910, large department stores such as Wanamaker's in New York City and Philadelphia were also staging fashion shows. These events showed couture gowns from Paris or the store's copies of them; they aimed to demonstrate the owners' good taste and capture the attention of female shoppers.\n\nBy the 1920s, retailers across the United States held fashion shows. Often, these shows were theatrical, presented with narratives, and organized around a theme (e.g. Parisian, Chinese, or Russian). These shows enjoyed huge popularity through mid-century, sometimes attracting thousands of customers and gawkers.\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, American designers began to hold their own fashion shows in private spaces apart from such retailers. In the early 1990s, however, many in the fashion world began to rethink this strategy. After several mishaps during shows in small, unsafe locations, \"[t]he general sentiment was, 'We love fashion but we don't want to die for it,'\" recalls Fern Mallis, then executive director of the Council of Fashion Designers of America. In response to these shows, the New York shows were centralized in Bryant Park during fashion week in late 1993.\n\nLately from the 2000s to today, fashion shows are usually also filmed and appear on specially assigned television channels or even in documentaries.\n\nIn recent years, fashion shows have become increasingly elaborate for many of the top labels, including sprawling sets that often come with higher costs.\n\nSome designers have attempted to modernize the style and presentation of fashion shows by integrating technological advances in experimental ways, such as including pre-recorded digital videos as backdrops. During New York Fashion Week in 2014, designer Ralph Lauren presented his new Polo line for Spring 2015 in a water-screen projection in Manhattan’s Central Park. Technological progress has also allowed a broader portion of the fashion industry's followers to experience shows. In 2010, London Fashion Week was the first fashion week to allow viewing of its shows through live streaming. Live streaming of runway shows and mediated shows has now become commonplace.\n\nTom Ford created a music video with Lady Gaga for his Spring/Summer 2016 women's collection.\n\n"}
{"id": "1763450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1763450", "title": "Fortnum &amp; Mason", "text": "Fortnum &amp; Mason\n\nFortnum & Mason (colloquially often shortened to just \"Fortnum's\") is an upmarket department store in Piccadilly, London, with additional stores at St Pancras railway station and Heathrow Airport in London, as well as various stockists worldwide. Its headquarters are located at 181 Piccadilly, where it was established in 1707 by William Fortnum and Hugh Mason. Today, it is privately owned by Wittington Investments Ltd.\n\nFounded as a grocery store, Fortnum's reputation was built on supplying quality food, and saw rapid growth throughout the Victorian era. Though Fortnum's developed into a department store, it continues to focus on stocking a variety of exotic, speciality and also 'basic' provisions.\n\nThe store has since opened several other departments, such as the Gentlemen's department on the third floor. It is also the location of a tea shop and several restaurants.\n\nWilliam Fortnum was a footman in the household of Queen Anne. The royal family’s insistence on having new candles every night resulted in large amounts of half-used wax, which Fortnum promptly resold for a tidy profit. The enterprising Fortnum also had a sideline business as a grocer. He convinced his landlord, Hugh Mason, to be his associate, and they founded the first Fortnum & Mason store in Mason's small shop in St James's Market in 1707. In 1761, William Fortnum's grandson Charles went into the service of Queen Charlotte and the affiliation with the royal court led to an increase in business. Fortnum & Mason claims to have invented the Scotch egg in 1738. The store began to stock speciality items, namely ready-to-eat luxury meals such as fresh poultry or game served in aspic jelly.\n\nDuring the Napoleonic Wars, the emporium supplied dried fruit, spices and other preserves to British officers and during the Victorian era it was frequently called upon to provide food for prestigious court functions. Queen Victoria even sent shipments of Fortnum & Mason's concentrated beef tea to Florence Nightingale's hospitals during the Crimean War.\n\nCharles Drury Edward Fortnum F.S.A. (1820–1899), of the family, was a distinguished art collector and a Trustee of the British Museum, to which he donated his collection of Islamic ceramics.\n\nIn 1886, after having bought the entire stock of five cases of a new product made by H. J. Heinz, Fortnum & Mason became the first store in Britain to stock tins of baked beans.\n\nIn April 1951, the Canadian businessman W. Garfield Weston acquired the store and became its chairman following a boardroom coup. In 1964, he commissioned a four-ton clock to be installed above the main entrance of the store as a tribute to its founders. Every hour, models of William Fortnum and Hugh Mason emerge and bow to each other, with chimes and 18th-century–style music playing in the background. Since Garfield Weston's death in 1978, the store has been run by his granddaughters, Jana Khayat and Kate Weston Hobhouse. The Managing Director is Ewan Venters.\n\nThe store underwent a £24 million refurbishment in 2007 as part of its tercentenary celebrations.\n\nIn March 2012, the Queen, Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall and Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge made their first official joint visit to Fortnum & Mason. During this visit, they were each presented with their own personalized hampers. The Queen opened the Diamond Jubilee Tea Salon on the fourth floor.\n\nIn November 2013, an additional store was opened at St Pancras International station, the first new store in the UK.\n\nFortnum & Mason opened its first standalone store outside Britain in Dubai on 21 March 2014.\n\nIn November 2010, animal rights group PETA UK began a campaign against Fortnum & Mason’s sale of foie gras citing the \"cruelty\" in the production process. The group regularly holds demonstrations involving celebrities, activists and volunteers outside the store. Celebrities supporting the campaign include Geezer Butler, Sir Roger Moore, Owain Yeoman, Tamara Ecclestone, Bill Oddie, Twiggy and Morrissey. Fortnum & Mason has recently been reprimanded by Westminster Trading Standards for misleading customers about its animal welfare standards. As a result, the grocer has changed its corporate social responsibility document to state that only UK suppliers are required to adhere to its welfare standards.\n\nOn 26 March 2011, Fortnum & Mason was targeted by the group UK Uncut, who broke off from the main 2011 anti-cuts protest march to target the tax avoidance policies of Associated British Foods, which, like Fortnum & Mason, is owned by Wittington Investments. This took the form of a mass sit-in, with some 138 UK Uncut protesters being arrested.\n\nOn 14 November 2014, Fortnum & Mason released a rebranded and redeveloped London Dry Gin created as a partnership brand by The London Distillery Company Ltd.\n\nThe London Distillery Company was approached by Fortnum and Mason in September 2014 to undertake the rebrand following continued in-store success of Dodd's Gin, which was created as a tribute to an 18th-century engineer and entrepreneur, Ralph Dodd.\n\nDesign agency United Creatives were commissioned by The London Distillery Company CEO Darren Rook to undertake the label rebrand.\n\nFortnum & Mason run an annual industry-acclaimed food and drinks awards. In the words of F&M CEO Ewan Venters, the awards recognise ‘the pinnacle of high achievement in food and drink across the media’. The awards celebrate the best writers, publishers, presenters, image-makers and personalities working in the food and drink industry.\n\nThe 2018 Awards ceremony was hosted by Claudia Winkleman and winners included Nadiya Hussain, Nigel Slater and Jay Rayner. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "161803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161803", "title": "Giovanni Battista Piranesi", "text": "Giovanni Battista Piranesi\n\nGiovanni Battista (or Giambattista) Piranesi (; also known as simply Piranesi; 4 October 1720 – 9 November 1778) was an Italian artist famous for his etchings of Rome and of fictitious and atmospheric \"prisons\" (\"Le Carceri d'Invenzione\").\n\nPiranesi was born in Mogliano Veneto, near Treviso, then part of the Republic of Venice. His father was a stonemason. His brother Andrea introduced him to Latin language and the ancient civilization, and later he was apprenticed under his uncle, Matteo Lucchesi, who was a leading architect in \"Magistrato delle Acque\", the state organization responsible for engineering and restoring historical buildings.\n\nFrom 1740, he had an opportunity to work in Rome as a draughtsman for Marco Foscarini, the Venetian ambassador of the new Pope Benedict XIV. He resided in the Palazzo Venezia and studied under Giuseppe Vasi, who introduced him to the art of etching and engraving of the city and its monuments. Giuseppe Vasi found Piranesi's talent was beyond engraving. According to Legrand, Vasi told Piranesi that \"you are too much of a painter, my friend, to be an engraver.\"\n\nAfter his studies with Vasi, he collaborated with pupils of the French Academy in Rome to produce a series of \"vedute\" (views) of the city; his first work was \"Prima parte di Architettura e Prospettive\" (1743), followed in 1745 by \"Varie Vedute di Roma Antica e Moderna\".\n\nFrom 1743 to 1747 he sojourned mainly in Venice where, according to some sources, he often visited Giovanni Battista Tiepolo, a leading artist in Venice. It was Tiepolo who expanded the restrictive conventions of reproductive, topographical and antiquarian engravings. He then returned to Rome, where he opened a workshop in Via del Corso. In 1748–1774 he created a long series of \"vedute\" of the city which established his fame. In the meantime Piranesi devoted himself to the measurement of many of the ancient edifices: this led to the publication of \"Le Antichità Romane de' tempo della prima Repubblica e dei primi imperatori\" (\"Roman Antiquities of the Time of the First Republic and the First Emperors\"). In 1761 he became a member of the Accademia di San Luca and opened a printing facility of his own. In 1762 the \"Campo Marzio dell'antica Roma\" collection of engravings was printed.\n\nThe following year he was commissioned by Pope Clement XIII to restore the choir of San Giovanni in Laterano, but the work did not materialize. In 1764, one of Pope's nephews, Cardinal Rezzonico, appointed him to start his sole architectural works of importance, the restoration of the church of Santa Maria del Priorato in the Villa of the Knights of Malta, on Rome's Aventine Hill. He combined certain ancient architectural elements, trophies and escutcheons, with a venetian whimsicality for the facade of the church and the walls of the Piazza dei Cavalieri di Malta. This was the only time he expressed himself in actual marble and stone.\n\nIn 1767 he was made a knight of the Golden Spur, which enabled him henceforth to sign himself \"Cav[aliere] Piranesi\". In 1769 his publication of a series of ingenious and sometimes bizarre designs for chimneypieces, as well as an original range of furniture pieces, established his place as a versatile and resourceful designer. In 1776 he created his best known work as a 'restorer' of ancient sculpture, the \"Piranesi Vase\", and in 1777–78 he published \"Avanzi degli Edifici di Pesto\" (Remains of the Edifices of Paestum).\n\nHe died in Rome in 1778 after a long illness, and was buried in the Church he had helped restore, Santa Maria del Priorato. His tomb was designed by Giuseppi Angelini.\n\nEven though the social structure by an aristocracy remained rigid and oppressive, Venice revived through the Grand Tour as the center of intellectual and international exchange in the eighteenth century. The ideas of the Enlightenment stimulated theorists and artists all over Europe including Paris, Dresden, and London. New forms of artistic expression emerged: veduta, capriccio, and veduta ideata, topographical view, architectural fantasy, accurate renderings of ancient monuments assembled with imaginary compositions in response to the demand of increased visitors.\n\nThe developing center of the Grand Tour was Rome. Rome became a new meeting place and intellectual capital of Europe for the leaders of a new movement in the arts. The city was attracting artists and architects from all over Europe beside the Grand Tourists, dealers and antiquarians. While many came through official institutions such as the French Academy, others came to see the new discoveries at Herculaneum and Pompeii. Coffee shops were frequent gathering places, most famously the Antico Caffè Greco, established 1760. The Caffe degli Inglesi opened several years later, at the foot of the Spanish Steps in Piazza di Spagna, with wall paintings by Piranesi. With his own print workshop and museo of antiquities nearby, Piranesi was able to cultivate relationships in both places with wealthy buyers on the tour, particularly English.\n\nThe remains of Rome kindled Piranesi's enthusiasm. Informed by his experience in Venice and his study of the works of Marco Ricci and particularly Giovanni Paolo Panini, he appreciated not only the engineering of the ancient buildings but also the poetic aspects of the ruins. He was able to faithfully imitate the actual remains; his invention in catching the design of the original architect provided the missing parts. His masterful skill at engraving introduced groups of vases, altars, tombs that were absent in reality; his manipulations of scale; and his broad and scientific distribution of light and shade completed the picture, creating a striking effect from the whole view. Some of his later work was completed by his children and several pupils.\n\nPiranesi's son and coadjutor, Francesco, collected and preserved his plates, in which the freer lines of the etching-needle largely supplemented the severity of burin work. Twenty-nine folio volumes containing about 2000 prints appeared in Paris (1835–1837).\n\nThe late Baroque works of Claude Lorrain, Salvatore Rosa, and others had featured romantic and fantastic depictions of ruins; in part as a memento mori or as a reminiscence of a golden age of construction. Piranesi's reproductions of real and recreated Roman ruins were a strong influence on Neoclassicism.\n\nOne of the main features of Neo-Classicism is the attitude towards nature and the uses of the past. Neo-Classicism was prompted by the discoveries at Herculaneum and Pompeii. Rediscovery and revaluation of Greece, Egypt, and Gothic was also active as well as the various expeditions of unfamiliar Roman empire. The view of a Golden Age was changing from static to mutable, inspired by Rousseau and Winckelmann in response to the dynamic growth of society.\n\nThe wider perspective on the past created a new way of expression. Artists developed a greater self-consciousness in confronting the limited authority of the ancient world, and there was a growing interest in civilizations and the destiny of nations. Piranesi was especially interested in the Graeco-Roman debate in the 1760s, between followers of Winckelmann who thought Greek culture and architecture superior to their Roman counterparts, and those who (like Piranesi) believed that the Romans had improved upon their Greek models. His free relationship to the past may be summarized in a phrase of his that become a mantra: \"col sporcar si trova\"; \"by messing about, one discovers\". \n\nThroughout his lifetime, Piranesi created numerous prints depicting the Eternal City; these were widely collected by gentlemen on the Grand Tour. The Lobkowicz Collections, housed at the Lobkowicz Palace, contains a group of twenty-six 18th-century engravings of views of modern and ancient Rome created by Giovanni Battista Piranesi. \n\nThe \"Prisons\" (\"Carceri d'invenzione\" or 'Imaginary Prisons'), is a series of 16 prints produced in first and second states that show enormous subterranean vaults with stairs and mighty machines.\n\nThese images influenced Romanticism and Surrealism. While the \"Vedutisti\" (or \"view makers\") such as Canaletto and Bellotto, more often reveled in the beauty of the sunlit place, in Piranesi this vision takes on what from a modern perspective could be called a Kafkaesque distortion, seemingly erecting fantastic labyrinthine structures, epic in volume. They are \"capricci\", whimsical aggregates of monumental architecture and ruin.\n\nThe series was started in 1745. The first state prints were published in 1750 and consisted of 14 etchings, untitled and unnumbered, with a sketch-like look. The original prints were 16\" x 21\". For the second publishing in 1761, all the etchings were reworked and numbered I–XVI (1–16). Numbers II and V were new etchings to the series. Numbers I to IX were all done in portrait format (vertical), while X to XVI were landscape format (horizontal+). Though untitled, their conventional titles are:\n\n\nThomas De Quincey in \"Confessions of an English Opium-Eater\" (1820) wrote the following:\nMany years ago, when I was looking over Piranesi's \"Antiquities of Rome\", Mr. Coleridge, who was standing by, described to me a set of plates by that artist ... which record the scenery of his own visions during the delirium of a fever: some of them (I describe only from memory of Mr. Coleridge's account) representing vast Gothic halls, on the floor of which stood all sorts of engines and machinery, wheels, cables, pulleys, levers, catapults, etc., etc., expressive of enormous power put forth, and resistance overcome. Creeping along the sides of the walls, you perceived a staircase; and upon it, groping his way upwards, was Piranesi himself: follow the stairs a little further, and you perceive it come to a sudden abrupt termination, without any balustrade, and allowing no step onwards to him.\n\nIn the second publishing, some of the illustrations appear to have been edited to contain (likely deliberate) impossible geometries.\n\nAn in-depth analysis of Piranesi's \"Carceri\" was written by Marguerite Yourcenar in her \"\" (1984). Further discussion of Piranesi and the \"Carceri\" can be found in \"The Mind and Art of Giovanni Battista Piranesi\" by John Wilton-Ely (1978). The style of Piranesi was imitated by twentieth-century forger Eric Hebborn.\n\nIt is important to look at his contribution as an archaeologist, which was acknowledged at the time as he had been elected to the London Society of Antiquaries. His influence of technical drawings in antiquarian publications is often overshadowed. He left explanatory notes in the lower margin about the structure and ornament. Most ancient monuments in Rome were abandoned in fields and gardens. Piranesi tried to preserve them with his engravings. To do this, Piranesi pushed himself to achieve realism in his work. A third of the monuments in Piranesi's engravings have disappeared, and the stucco and surfacings were often stolen, restored and modified clumsily. Piranesi's precise observational skills allow people to experience the atmosphere in Rome in the eighteenth century. Piranesi may have recognised his role to disseminate remarkable information through meaningful images. He became the Director of the Portici Museum in 1751.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6014096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6014096", "title": "Grindaknívur", "text": "Grindaknívur\n\nGrindaknívur (), is along with the \"mønustingari\" (spinal cord cutter) the Faroese pilot whale hunt's most distinguished equipment. The haft and sheath are usually made of high quality wood and have inlay of brass and silver.\n\nThere are no specific formal requirements to the whaling knife. In most cases the length of the blade is between 16 and 19 cm. The whaling knife is considered as one of the foremost Faroese contributions to Nordic artistic craftsmanship. The knife was earlier used for the traditional method of killing pilot whales; to sever the spinal cord with a cut across the back of the neck of the animal between the head and the neck, but since 2011 a new invention called \"mønustingari\" (spinal cord cutter) has been legal to use for this purpose. The grindaknívur is now used after the whale has been killed with the mønustingari to cut the whales neck open, so that the blood can leave the whale's body.\n\n\nKilling Methods and Equipment in the Faroese Pilot Whale Hunt - English translation of a working paper by senior veterinarian, Jústines Olsen, originally presented in Danish at the NAMMCO Workshop on Hunting Methods for marine mammals, held in Nuuk, Greenland in February 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "42512810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42512810", "title": "Health Brigade", "text": "Health Brigade\n\nThe Health Brigade, formerly Fan Free Clinic, is a non-profit free community clinic located in the Museum District in Richmond, Virginia. The clinic was first formed in 1968 by a nurse, two doctors and a minister and in 1970, was located on Floyd Avenue at the Emerson House of the First Unitarian Church before moving to their current location on Thompson Street. It is considered to be an early example of free clinics, and the oldest of its kind in Virginia. The Health Brigade operates with both paid employees and unpaid volunteers, and clients of the clinic must undergo a financial screening to determine their eligibility.\n\nAs a whole, the Health Brigade offers primary care services and testing and treatment of sexually-transmitted diseases. The separate areas available are the medical clinic, health and outreach services, mental health services, and HIV testing and information. In 2016, the Fan Free Clinic changed its name to Health Brigade.\n\n"}
{"id": "52759037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52759037", "title": "Indigenous Futurisms", "text": "Indigenous Futurisms\n\nIndigenous Futurisms is a movement consisting of art, literature, comics, games, and other forms of media which express Indigenous perspectives of the future, past, and present in the context of science fiction and related sub-genres. Such perspectives may reflect Indigenous ways of knowing, traditional stories, historical or contemporary politics or other cultural realities. \n\nLike Afrofuturism, Indigenous futurism encapsulates multiple modes of art making from literature to visual arts, fashion and music. The term was coined by Grace Dillon, Professor in the Indigenous Nations Studies Program at Portland State University. Indigenous Futurisms critiques the historization of Indigenous people which is used to separate from them the contemporary world while challenging notions of what constitutes advanced technology .\n\nProminent artists working within the field of Indigenous futurism include Skawennati, a Mohawk multi-media artist best known for her project \"TimeTraveller™\", a nine-episode machinima series that uses science fiction to examine First nations histories, Grace Dillon, who is editor of \"Walking the Clouds: An Anthology of Indigenous Science Fiction\", Stephen Graham Jones, a Blackfeet Native American author, and Wendy Red Star, a Native American contemporary multimedia artist. Additionally, Lou Catherine Cornum is a writer and scholar currently working in the field of Indigenous futurism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59114506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59114506", "title": "Influence of French on English", "text": "Influence of French on English\n\nThere has been a long-standing influence of French on English, in terms of syntax, grammar, lexicon, spelling and pronunciation.\n\nMost French vocabulary that entered English occurred after the Norman conquest of England in 1066 and the establishment of a French-speaking administration. French became the language of the court, the administration and the elites for several centuries, until after the Hundred Years War. English has been constantly influenced by French from that time till present day.\nAccording to Laura K. Lawless, more than a third of the current English vocabulary is of French origin. According to linguist Henriette Walter, words of French origin represent more than two thirds of the English vocabulary. It is estimated by linguist Anthony Lacoudre that over 40 000 English words are directly French and may be understood without orthographical change by French speakers.\n\nAt the beginning of XIth century, the English language did not have a well-defined status. Indeed, the inhabitants of what would become Great Britain did not have a language that allowed them to communicate with each other. There were many different dialectal forms. Great Britain, in which various Celtic idioms had coexisted since the IVth century, had experienced partial Roman occupation since the 1st century A.D., and this for four centuries.\n\nFrom 450 onwards, the Saxons, the Angles and the Jutes, who came from the continent, settled in the south and east. Germanic dialects would prevail in these regions, supplanting Celtic dialects, which would remain in the west and north of the island (Wales, Cornwall, Scotland) and Ireland. In the VIIIth century, Vikings from Scandinavia settled on the island. Their languages, also Germanic, in turn influence the languages already present on the island. Thus, at the dawn of XIth century, the country was made up of a series of peoples with significantly different speeches, most of them Germanic, with multiple influences.\n\nIt is therefore a linguistically disunited people that the Normans will get massively in contact with, from 1066. William II of Normandy, supported by his King, Philip I of France, and his blood legitimacy to the throne of England, landed at Hastings, in Sussex, on 29 September 1066. His men are deployed around the city waiting for the king Harold II's troops. On October 14, exhausted by the long journey to Hastings, Harold II's troops lost the battle after a day. Following the defeat of the English, Duke William II of Normandy became King of England on December 25, 1066, crowned under the name of William I of England, also known as William the Conqueror. This date marks the beginning of a long period of ties between the peoples and languages.\n\nIn fact, these links already existed before the Battle of Hastings. Indeed, the geographical location of Normandy, facing the English Channel, favoured commercial contacts with England. These ties will be further strengthened at the beginning of the XIth century when the daughter of the Duke Richard II of Normandy, Emma, marries King Æthelred II of England. But it is really from the 1066 conquest that proto-English becomes massively impregnated with Old French, then modern French. It should be noted, however, that only French will influence English in the centuries following the conquest. The reverse contribution of English to French will only be real from the XVIIIth century.\n\nThe arrival of William the Conqueror and his barons significantly changed the linguistic situation in England. Norman is essentially imposed in the upper layers of society. The Anglo-Saxon dialects were supplanted by Norman in the circles of the court and aristocracy, justice and the Church. The influential circles, who came from Normandy and settled in England, kept their Norman mother tongue, while the more modest rural and urban strata continued to speak English.\n\nNorman is a particular variety of the Gallo-Roman language, spoken in Normandy. It is one of the Oil languages alongside, among others, the Picard and the Walloon. The Norman language is modified in contact with the Anglo-Saxon language. It then integrates words and phrases from English and will give birth to a dialect, Anglo-Norman, still spoken on the Anglo-Norman isles. Anglo-Norman can be described as a vernacular language, on English soil in the XIth century, in the field of literature, culture, court and among the clergy. French was therefore, at first, spoken in England under the form of this Anglo-Norman dialect.\n\nDuring the XIIth century, continental French has a greater influence on Old English. It acquires great prestige in England, especially within the aristocracy and the clergy. It becomes the language of law and justice nationwide. Rich and noble families, most of them of Norman origin, teach their children French or send them to study in France. The expansion of the French language in England was also encouraged by royal marriages. From Henry II Plantagenet and Eleanor of Aquitaine at the beginning of the century, to Henri VI and Marguerite in the XVth century, all kings of England married French princesses. These marriages made French the language of the English court for several centuries and were decisive in strengthening the use of French in England. This period (XIIth-XVth centuries) is characterized by a massive influx of French words into Old English vocabulary.\n\nIn 1204, Philippe Auguste Normandy is officially annexed to the kingdom of France, politically isolating England from the continent. Normans who choose to stay in England move further away from France and, therefore, from the French language. Keeping its status as the language of justice and the language of power, England saw the first teaching manuals for teaching French to the English. These manuals were intended for English nobles who wish to perfect their knowledge of French and teach it to their children. Two types of French spoken in the higher spheres of English society can be distinguished during the XIIIth century : the Anglo-Norman dialect, which was the aristocrats' mother tongue, and a more prestigious type of French as a second language. Knowing \"parisian\" French was a mark of social distinction. As a language of culture, French supplanted Latin from the XIIth century onward as the language of diplomacy and worldly relations throughout Europe. The mass and influence of French literature reinforced its reputation and appeal.\n\nThe XVIth century, that of the Renaissance, is a decisive century for French since king François I of France, through the Ordonnance de Villers-Cotterêts (1539), makes French the official language of administration in the whole kingdom.\nAlthough troubled by the European wars of religion, the Italian Wars, the language is marked by intellectual, technical and scientific effervescence. It ushered in an era of prosperity that would also spread to England through French.\n\nThe XVIIth century announces the apogee of the Kingdom of France. This period was characterized by the political, literary and artistic prestige of France and the French language. Peace restored and unity ensured in the country, economy grew considerably. Personalities such as the King Henri IV, the Cardinal of Richelieu or the Sun King contribute to fixing and enhancing the French language in Europe, the Americas, India and Oceania.\n\nThe creation of the Académie française by Richelieu in 1635, under Louis XIII, was a step that led to the standardization of French in continental Europe and abroad, including England. French is then the second language of all the elites in Europe, from Turkey to Ireland and from Moscow to Lisbon. The greatest scholars and intellectuals, writers and scientists, express themselves and correspond in this new standardised French. French is considered a perfect language, whose beauty and elegance are determined by the development of scientific logic, aided by dictionaries and grammars.\n\nThe geographical use of French has continuously and greatly diversified in the last five hundred years, with countries and states like New-Brunswick, Quebec, Ivory Coast, Benin, Togo, Guinea, Cameroon, Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Madagascar, Mauritius, Tchad, Djibouti, Senegal, Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, Lebanon, France, Belgium, Switzerland, Luxembourg, Monaco, Aosta Valley, French Polynesia, New Caledonia, and Vanuatu adopting it as their official language. This geographical diversity has led to many different contacts with vernacular dialects, regional and international languages, from which French has often been enriched locally.\nIn a number of countries and regions where French shares co-officiality with English (Cameroon, Canada, Jersey, Mauritius, Rwanda, Vanuatu), particular lexical regionalisms are observed where French and English terms are used interchangeably.\n\nSeveral elements must be observed.\n\n\nThe following French glossary in English is in no way exhaustive. These words come as examples to illustrate the countless French words that are part of the English language.\n\nIn this section, examples of French-to-English lexical contributions are classified by field and in chronological order. The periods during which these words were used in the English language are specified as much as possible. It is not always possible to state with certainty the precise period from which a word was borrowed or integrated.\n\nThe English word is on the left, with its current French equivalent in brackets, then comes its Old French origin in bold and the century of its introduction on the right.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31255787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31255787", "title": "Jewish skeleton collection", "text": "Jewish skeleton collection\n\nThe Jewish skeleton collection was an attempt by the Nazis to create an anthropological display to showcase the alleged racial inferiority of the \"Jewish race\" and to emphasize the Jews' status as \"Untermenschen\" (\"sub-humans\"), in contrast to the German race, which the Nazis considered to be Aryan \"Übermenschen\". The collection was to be housed at the Anatomy Institute at the Reich University of Strasbourg in the annexed region of Alsace, where the initial preparation of the corpses was performed.\n\nThe collection was sanctioned by Reichsführer of the SS Heinrich Himmler, and designed by and under the direction of August Hirt with Rudolf Brandt and Wolfram Sievers, general manager of the Ahnenerbe, being responsible for procuring and preparing the corpses.\n\nWork by Hans-Joachim Lang published in 2004 revealed the identities and family history of all the victims of this project, based on discovery of the prisoner numbers found at Natzweiler-Struthof in records of those vaccinated against typhus at Auschwitz. The list of names has been placed on a memorial at the cemetery where all were buried, at the facility used to murder them, and at the Anatomical Institute where the corpses were found in 1944.\n\nThe project was designed by August Hirt, who directed the phases that were performed before the end of the war ceased the project prior to its completion. Originally the \"specimens\" to be used in the collection were to be Jewish commisars in the Red Army captured on the Eastern front by the Wehrmacht. The 86 individuals ultimately chosen for the collection were obtained from among a pool of 115 Jewish inmates at Auschwitz concentration camp in Occupied Poland. They were chosen for their perceived stereotypical racial characteristics. The initial selections and preparations were carried out by SS-Hauptsturmführer Dr. Bruno Beger and Dr. Hans Fleischhacker, who arrived in Auschwitz in the first half of 1943 and finished the preliminary work by June 15, 1943. \n\nDue to a typhus epidemic at Auschwitz, the candidates chosen for the skeleton collection were quarantined in order to prevent them from becoming ill and ruining their value as anatomical specimens. In that time, the physical measurements were taken from the selected group of people. An excerpt from a letter written by Sievers in June 1943 reports on the preparation and the typhus epidemic: \"Altogether 115 persons were worked on, 79 were Jews, 30 were Jewesses, 2 were Poles, and 4 were Asiatics. At the present time these prisoners are segregated by sex and are under quarantine in the two hospital buildings of Auschwitz.\"\nIn February 1942, Sievers submitted to Himmler, through Rudolf Brandt, a report from which the following is an extract read at the Nuremberg Doctors Trial by General Telford Taylor, Chief Counsel for the prosecution at Nuremberg:\n\nUltimately, 87 of the inmates were shipped to Natzweiler-Struthof. These people were kept for about two weeks in Block 13 of the camp so that they might eat well to improve their appearance for the desired casts of their corpses. The deaths of 86 of these inmates were, in the words of Hirt, \"induced\" in an improvised gassing facility at Natzweiler-Struthof, and their corpses were sent to Strasbourg — 57 men and 29 women. The gassing occurred on August 11, 13, 17, and 19th, conducted by commandant Josef Kramer, who directed the victims to undress, placed the poison in the ventilation, and watched the people fall to their deaths. One victim was shot for fighting to avoid being gassed and thus was not part of the collection. Josef Kramer, acting commandant of Natzweiler-Struthof (who became the commandant at Auschwitz and the last commandant of Bergen Belsen), personally carried out the gassing of the victims, per his testimony at his post-war trial. It is believed that three men died in transport from Auschwitz to Natzweiler-Struthof.\n\nThe next part of the process for this \"collection\" was to make anatomical casts of the bodies prior to reducing them to skeletons. With the approach of the Allies in 1944, there was concern over the possibility that the corpses could be discovered, as they had still not been defleshed. In September 1944, Sievers telegrammed Brandt: \"The collection can be defleshed and rendered unrecognizable. This, however, would mean that the whole work had been done for nothing-at least in part-and that this singular collection would be lost to science, since it would be impossible to make plaster casts afterwards.\"\nSome work had been done at the Anatomical Institute, but the project was never completed. The body casts were not made, and the corpses were not defleshed as skeletons. When the Allies arrived, they found the corpses, some complete and some beheaded, preserved by formalin.\n\nBrandt and Sievers were indicted, tried, and convicted in the Doctors' Trial in Nuremberg, and both were hanged in Landsberg Prison on June 2, 1948. Josef Kramer was convicted of war crimes and hanged in by British executioner Albert Pierrepoint on December 13, 1945. August Hirt, who conceived the project, was sentenced to death in absentia at the Military War Crimes Trial at Metz on 23 December 1953. It was unknown at the time that Hirt had shot himself in the head on June 2, 1945 near the town of Schluchsee, while hiding in the Black Forest. In 1974, Bruno Beger was convicted by a West German court as an accessory to 86 murders for his role in procuring the victims of the Jewish skeleton collection. He was sentenced to three years imprisonment, the minimum sentence, but did not serve any time in prison. According to his family, Beger died in Königstein im Taunus on October 12, 2009. \nFor many years, only a single victim was positively identified through the efforts of Serge and Beate Klarsfeld: Menachem Taffel (prisoner no. 107969), a Polish born Jew who had been living in Berlin. In 2003, Dr. Hans-Joachim Lang, a German professor at the University of Tübingen, succeeded in identifying all the victims by comparing a list of inmate numbers of the 86 corpses at the Reichs University in Strasbourg, surreptitiously recorded by Hirt's French assistant Henri Henrypierre, with a list of numbers of inmates vaccinated at Auschwitz. The names and biographical information of the victims were published in the book \"Die Namen der Nummern\" (\"The Names of the Numbers\"). Rachel Gordon and Joachim Zepelin translated the Introduction to the book into English at the web site where the whole book is posted in German, including the biographies of the 86 people. Lang recounts in detail the story of how he determined the identities of the 86 victims gassed for Dr. August Hirt's project of the Jewish skeleton collection. Forty-six of these individuals were originally from Thessaloniki, Greece. The 86 were from eight countries in German-occupied Europe: Austria, Netherlands, France, Germany, Greece, Norway, Belgium, and Poland.\n\nIn 1951, the remains of the 86 victims were re-interred in one location in the Cronenbourg-Strasbourg Jewish Cemetery. On December 11, 2005, memorial stones engraved with the names of the 86 victims were placed at the cemetery. One is at the site of the mass grave, the other along the wall of the cemetery. Another plaque honoring the victims was placed outside the Anatomy Institute at Strasbourg's University Hospital. On July 9, 2015, French doctor Raphael Toledano discovered at the Forensic Institute's Museum of Strasbourg several tissue samples hidden away, presumed to be from Menachem Taffel. These last remains were buried in the Jewish cemetery of Cronenbourg on September 6, 2015. As journalist and researcher Lang stated, once his long research was published on the identities of the 86 people killed under Hirt's orders, \"The perpetrators should not be allowed to have the final word.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16015604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16015604", "title": "Jingxiang", "text": "Jingxiang\n\nJìngxiāng (敬香 \"offering incense with respect\"), shàngxiāng (上香 \"offering incense\"), bàishén (拜神 \"worshipping gods\"), is a ritual of offering incense accompanied by tea and or fruits in Chinese traditional religion. In ancestral religious worship it's \"jìngzǔ\" (敬祖 \"veneration of the ancestor\") or \"bàizǔ\" 拜祖 (\"worship of the ancestor\"). It is observed by a devotee holding joss incense with both hands in front of an altar while praying or meditating. For added respect the devotee or descendent is expected to kneel during and after placing the incense in the urn or at the altar.\n\nJiangxiang is practiced in diffused Chinese folk religion and also by adherents belonging to the schools of Taoism, Chinese Buddhism and Confucianism. It's used for making a general prayer to one of the Chinese deities, sending well wishes to a deceased ancestor as part of daily prayers in Chinese ancestor veneration, or celebrating the Qingming Festival, Ghost festival and Chongyang Festival .\n\nThe number of joss stick varies, usually three or five, or less commonly, nine. \nThe ancient Chinese consider that even numbers are associated with \"yin\", and odd numbers are associated with \"yang\". Because \"yang\" represents positive and auspicious things, odd numbers like three, five and nine are preferred in many rituals.\n\nThe scent of the joss sticks is believed to calm the human spirit. The same effect is believed to affect the spirit of a deceased ancestor. In this connection it also serves as a notice to the deity an adherent is respecting. It is also considered a form of food to the spirits and gods in Daoism and Chinese Buddhism.\n\nUsually jingxiang is done with an offering of tea, in a number corresponding to the gods, typically three cups. Fruit is generally offered to accompany Jingxiang, again the specification differs for temples or deities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20544131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20544131", "title": "John Barnes Linnett", "text": "John Barnes Linnett\n\nJohn Barnes Linnett ( – ) was a British lithograph printer based in Birmingham, England. Although the French Pierre-Hubert Desvignes is generally credited with being the inventor of the flip book, Linnett was the first to patent the invention, in 1868, under the name of \"kineograph\".\n\nHe was born in Austrey, Warwickshire.\n\nLinnett died of pneumonia. His wife sold the patent to an American.\n"}
{"id": "7963550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7963550", "title": "Juju", "text": "Juju\n\nJuju or ju-ju () is a spiritual belief system incorporating objects, such as amulets, and spells used in religious practice, as part of witchcraft in West Africa. The term has been applied to traditional African religions.\n\nThe term \"juju\" and the practices associated with it, travelled to the Americas from West Africa with the influx of slaves via the Atlantic slave trade and still survives in some areas, particularly among the various groups of Maroons, who have preserved their African traditions.\n\nJuju is sometimes used to enforce a contract or ensure compliance. In a typical scenario, The witch doctor casting the spell requires a payment for this service.\n\nContrary to common belief, Vodun is not related to juju, despite the linguistic and spiritual similarities. Juju has acquired some karmic attributes in more recent times: good juju can stem from almost any good deed; bad juju can be spread just as easily. These ideas revolve around the luck and fortune portions of juju. The use of juju to describe an object usually involves small items worn or carried; these generally contain medicines produced by witch doctors.\n\nThe term \"juju\" also is used to refer to the juju bean native to West Africa. The poisonous bean grows on wild tree-dwelling vines. \n\nThe term \"juju\" is commonly used to refer to the feeling of something. For example, if a person feels offset by an object or place, they would say that the object or place has \"bad juju.\"\n"}
{"id": "460663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=460663", "title": "List of languages by writing system", "text": "List of languages by writing system\n\nBelow is a list of languages sorted by writing system (by alphabetical order).\n\n\n\nand many other varieties of Arabic.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25747639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25747639", "title": "List of most expensive coins", "text": "List of most expensive coins\n\nThe following list is a chart of the most expensive coins. Most of these are auction prices. Several private sale prices over $2m are not in this list yet. \n\n"}
{"id": "45218921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45218921", "title": "Memory of Water", "text": "Memory of Water\n\nMemory of Water (Finnish: Teemestarin kirja, \"The Tea Master's Book\") is the debut novel by Finnish author Emmi Itäranta, published in 2014 by HarperCollins. The Finnish version of the novel, which Itäranta wrote simultaneously along with the English one, was published in Finland in 2013 by the publishing house . Set in a dystopian future where fresh water is scarce, it tells the story of Noria, a young tea master's apprentice, who must come to terms with a great secret and even greater responsibility that follows this knowledge.\n\nThe Finnish manuscript won the Fantasy and Sci-Fi Literary Fiction contest organised by Teos in 2012 and was subsequently published. The book won the in 2012, and the in 2013. It was also shortlisted for the 2013 Tähtivaeltaja Award.\n\nThe English language version of the book has been featured on several shortlists in both the US and the UK - the Philip K. Dick Award, Compton Crook Award, Golden Tentacle Award and Arthur C. Clarke Award. The novel also appeared on the 2014 James Tiptree, Jr. Award Honor List.\n"}
{"id": "42398049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42398049", "title": "Money, A Mythology of Darkness", "text": "Money, A Mythology of Darkness\n\nMoney, A Mythology of Darkness (Greek: \"Το χρήμα - Μια μυθολογία του Σκότους\", 1998) is a feature Greek film directed by the Greek director, writer and producer Vassilis Mazomenos.\nIt was the first European feature 3D animation film and was awarded in 1998 with the Greek Ministry of Culture National Cinema Award and in 1999 with the Special Jury Award in Fantasporto (Portugal). In 1999 had also the Nomination for the Best European Fantasy Film and presented in a lot of festivals around the world such as Sitges Film Festival, Puchon International Fantastic Film Festival. As Vrasidas Karalis wrote in \"A History of Greek Cinema\": Vassilis Mazomenos \"released his mesmerizing and terrifying apocalyptic phantasmagoria \"Money—A mythology of Darkness\" (\"Hrima, mia mythologia tou skotous\") in 1998. A visual essay on the impact of money on humanity, it is a film that deserves more attention and which proves the potential of new technologies in the creation of a new kind of cinematic language. With this film, Mazomenos created a trilogy of philosophical essays by means of visual experimentations.\" Part of the film trilogy about the end of the West, that was presented and awarded in the 2001 retrospective in Fantasporto.\n"}
{"id": "250260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=250260", "title": "Monolingual learner's dictionary", "text": "Monolingual learner's dictionary\n\nA Monolingual learner's dictionary (or MLD) is a type of dictionary designed to meet the reference needs of people learning a foreign language. MLDs are based on the premise that language-learners should progress from a bilingual dictionary to a monolingual one as they become more proficient in their target language, but that general-purpose dictionaries (aimed at native speakers) are inappropriate for their needs. Dictionaries for learners include information on grammar, usage, common errors, collocation, and pragmatics, which is largely missing from standard dictionaries, because native speakers tend to know these aspects of language intuitively. And while the definitions in standard dictionaries are often written in difficult language, those in a monolingual learner’s dictionary aim to be simple and accessible.\n\nThe first English MLD, published in 1935, was the \"New Method English Dictionary\" by Michael West and James Endicott, a small dictionary using a restricted defining vocabulary of just 1490 words. Since the end of World War Two, global sales of the MLD have run into the tens of millions, reflecting the boom in the English language teaching industry.\n\nProbably the best-known English monolingual dictionary for advanced learners is the \"Oxford Advanced Learner's Dictionary\", now in its ninth edition. It was originally published in Japan in 1942 as \"The Idiomatic and Syntactic Dictionary of English\", written by A. S. Hornby and two collaborators. It was subsequently republished as \"A Learner's Dictionary of Current English\" in 1948, before acquiring its current name.\n\nOther publishers gradually entered the market. The \"Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English\" was published in 1978, and its most striking feature was the use of a restricted defining vocabulary, which is now a standard feature of learners' dictionaries. There are currently six major MLDs for advanced learners. In addition to the Oxford and Longman dictionaries, these are:\nAll of these dictionaries are available in hard copy and online.\n\nSince the 1980s, the English MLD has, arguably, been the most innovative area in the field of lexicography, in terms of both the way dictionaries are written and the aspects of language which dictionaries describe, in particular the use of software in combination with text corpora to:\n\nMLDs were among the first dictionaries to appear on CD-ROM, with the \"Longman Interactive English Dictionary\" leading the way in 1993. More recently the six MLDs listed above have become available in free online versions.\n\nMLDs have been the subject of research into how people use dictionaries, as well as the subject of scholarly work. A standard book on the subject is Cowie 1999.\n\nThe Internet offers a range of online dictionary resources. Some, like the Open Dictionary of English, are explicitly designed as learner's dictionaries, and may even include built-in, adaptive tutoring.\n\nOthers, like Wordnik or Wiktionary, don't have that explicit focus, yet provide useful resources to learners due to their collaborative nature, which tends to produce definitions and sample sentences that are more diverse, and written in popular terms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10916162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10916162", "title": "National Museum of Ethiopia", "text": "National Museum of Ethiopia\n\nThe National Museum of Ethiopia (NME), also referred to as the Ethiopian National Museum, is a national museum in Ethiopia. It is located in the capital, Addis Ababa, near the Addis Ababa University's graduate school.\n\nThe museum houses Ethiopia's artistic treasures. It contains many precious local archaeological finds such as the fossilized remains of early hominids, the most famous of which is \"Lucy,\" the partial skeleton of a specimen of \"Australopithecus afarensis\". Recently added to the basement gallery is a display on \"Selam\", found between 2000 and 2004. This archaic fossil is estimated to date to 3.3 million years ago.\n\nIn 1936, the concept of a museum was first introduced in Ethiopia when an exhibition was opened, displaying ceremonial costumes donated by the Solomonic dynasty and their close associates. The current NME grew from the establishment of the Institute of Archaeology, which was founded in 1958. The institute was founded to promote and facilitate the archaeological research mission in the northern part of Ethiopia by French archaeologists.\nThe museum started its activities by exhibiting objects from these excavation missions. With the establishment of the Ethiopian Cultural Heritage Administration in 1976, the idea came up to open a National Museum, which was supported by the Government. The NME began to operate under the National Act which provides for the protection and preservation of antiquities, and has legislative authority governing all sites and monuments throughout the country of Ethiopia.\n\nLater, the National Museum diversified its activities and organised into three working department, i.e. the conservation department, the documentation department and the exhibition and research department. \n\nThe NME at present has four main exhibition sections. The basement is dedicated to archaeological and paleoanthropological sections. This area show the previously mentioned hominids. The first floor contains objects from ancient and medieval periods, as well as regalia and memorabilia from former rulers, who include Emperor Haile Selassie. The second floor shows art work in a chronological order, from traditional to contemporary works. Afewerk Tekle's massive African Heritage is one of the most notable pieces. Another painting depicts the meeting of Solomon and Sheba. The second floor contains a collection of secular arts and crafts, including traditional weapons, jewellery, utensils, clothing and musical instruments. Finally, the third floor has an ethnographic display. Here, the museum tries to give an overview of the cultural richness and variety of the peoples of Ethiopia.\n\n"}
{"id": "36314598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36314598", "title": "National Non-Fiction Day", "text": "National Non-Fiction Day\n\nNational Non-Fiction Day (NNFD) is annual celebration of children's non-fiction in the UK.\n\nIt was initiated by The Federation of Children's Book Groups in partnership with Scholastic Children’s Books and is celebrated across the UK each year on the first Thursday in November (at approximately the same time as the announcement of the winners of the School Library Association Information Book Award).\n\nThe day is used by libraries, schools, literacy organisations, book reviewers and parents to highlight the best information and narrative non-fiction books for children, and to show how it’s not just fiction that can be read and enjoyed for pleasure. Each year there is a different theme to the day.\n\n"}
{"id": "3209520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3209520", "title": "Oldest Dryas", "text": "Oldest Dryas\n\nThe Oldest Dryas was a climatic period, which occurred during the coldest stadial after the Weichselian glaciation in north Europe. In the Alps, the Oldest Dryas corresponds to the Gschnitz stadial of the Würm glaciation. The three “Dryas” periods (younger, older, oldest) are named for a marker species, \"Dryas octopetala\", detected in core samples of glacial ice and peat bogs. The Oldest Dryas corresponds to pollen zone Ia.\n\nThe period was between 16,050-13,050 BC, from Roberts, 1998. A date from Kilkeel, Northern Ireland, extends the start of the period to as early as 17,050 BC. A strong sequence of carbon-14 dates derived from layered material in the Hauterive/Rouges-Terres excavations on the northwest shore of Lake Neuchâtel in Switzerland, 1992–1993, places the end of the Oldest Dryas at about 12,700 BC, calibrated. The same date from Antarctica and the south China sea is 14,600 and 14,700, respectively, and a Greenland ice core indicates 14,500. David Miles refers to the Oldest Dryas as the last Heinrich event (H1) and dates it to between 16,500 and 14,500 years ago.\n\nThe ultimate standard to which all these dates are to be compared is the graph of the oxygen isotope ratio cycles, which gives change in isotope concentration on the y-axis, with time on the x-axis. The graph plots many events that are sharply defined, but others are not. The selection of a terminal point is sometimes partially arbitrary.\n\nThe end of the Oldest Dryas is sharply defined. The beginning is a long, gently sloping band, probably no earlier than 17,050 BC, but the date might be set later by approximately 1000 years. Data derived from isotope variation of nitrogen and argon trapped in Greenland ice gives a high-resolution date for the end of the oldest Dryas at the sharp temperature rise of 14.67 ky BP.\nThe complete sequence of late Pleistocene climatic periods, defined for Northern Europe, are the Oldest Dryas (stadial), the Bölling (interstadial), the Older Dryas (stadial), the Allerød (interstadial), and the Younger Dryas (stadial). The Holocene begins immediately afterward. The last three are also Blytt-Sernander periods.\n\nSometimes, the Older Dryas is missing, as in the Jura Mountains of France, or it is negligible in the evidence. In that case, the initial part of the sequence appears to be Oldest Dryas (cold), Bølling-Allerød (warm), Younger Dryas (cold). The Bølling-Allerød corresponds to the Windermere interstadial in Britain.\n\nOften, however, the apparently-missing Older Dryas is a problem of resolution in the evidence. Some scientists have undertaken high-resolution studies, which combine a variety of climatological methods. They, like the ones conducted on Owens and Mono Lakes, in California, usually detect the Older Dryas. Even when it is detected, it appears to be no more than a few centuries of slightly-cooler weather on the oxygen isotope ratio graph.\n\nDuring the Oldest Dryas, Europe was treeless and similar to the Arctic tundra, but much drier and grassier than the modern tundra. It contained shrubs and herbaceous plants such as the following:\nSpecies were mainly Arctic but during the Glacial Maximum, the warmer weather species had withdrawn into refugia and began to repopulate Europe in the Oldest Dryas.\n\nThe brown bear, \"Ursos arctos\", was among the first to arrive in the north. Genetic studies indicate North European brown bears came from a refugium in the Carpathians of Moldavia. Other refugia were in Italy, Spain and Greece.\n\nThe bears would not have returned north except in pursuit of food. The tundra must already have been well populated. It is likely that the species hunted by humans at Lake Neuchâtel in Switzerland by the end of the period were present during it. Here are other animals present:\n\nAves\n\nThe above birds are primarily maritime. They must have fed in the copious glacial waters of the north that were just beginning to be released.\n\nFish\nThe smaller mammals of the food chain inhabited the herbaceous blanket of the tundra:\n\nCricetidae\n\nLeporidae\n\nSciuridae\n\nIn addition to bears and birds were other predators of the following small animals:\n\nCarnivora\nHumans were interested in the large mammals, which included:\n\nAt some point, the larger mammals arrived: hyena, woolly rhinoceros, cave bear and mammoth.\n\nHuman cultures in Europe were Upper Palaeolithic and belonged to Cro-Magnon man. Neanderthals had long since disappeared by replacement or amalgamation with \"Homo sapiens\". The Magdalenian culture of reindeer hunters prevailed in Western Europe. From the Carpathians eastward, the Epigravettian continued the prior Gravettian. In Japan, the Jōmon culture had already become sedentary and was producing some food, and possibly grew rice, but it was not at all urban. It was manufacturing the first known pottery.\n\nOne of the most remarkable discoveries of the period was the domestic wolf, a distinct breed of \"Canis lupus\", with smaller teeth. The domestic dog, \"Canis familiaris\", also has been found. It is thought that the animals helped with the hunting, but they would, by the nature of the hunt, have gradually become adept at herding.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29630881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29630881", "title": "Operation Delta Force", "text": "Operation Delta Force\n\nOperation Delta Force is a telefilm and direct-to-video film series comprising 5 entries.\n\n\nAll five films credit Danny Lerner as a writer and producer. David Sparling was involved in the writing of all but the final installment. Yossi Wein was the cinematographer for the first film, and he was the director of the second and fifth films. The actors starring in the film were Ernie Hudson, Jeff Fahey, Frank Zagarino, Todd Jensen, Joe Lara and Hal Holbrook.\n\nFocusing on the activities of an elite group of US soldiers (Delta Force), the film titles apparently attempt to capitalize on the earlier Chuck Norris films \"The Delta Force\" and its sequels \"\" and \"\".\n\nWith global safety at stake, Delta Force - the world's most elite combat unit - is called to eliminate a dangerous international criminal who threatens to unleash nuclear terror unless he receives 25 billion dollars in exchange. This time, the adrenaline pumps twice as hard as the team turns up the heat with blistering action, thermonuclear suspense and pulse-pounding excitement!\n\nAn elite task force is assigned to handle a Middle-Eastern terrorist mastermind who is using mind-control techniques to create an army of willing suicide bombers.\n\n"}
{"id": "15958969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15958969", "title": "Pounded rice ritual", "text": "Pounded rice ritual\n\nThe pounded rice ritual normally occurs with an arranged marriage occurring in Southeast Asia. An arranged marriage is one where elders of the prospective families negotiate the union with varying levels of input and involvement from the bride and groom. The wedding ceremony normally occurs at the home of the bride’s family. The groom is carried on a chair along with his family to the bride’s home. He then takes part in an all-night ceremony of worship while the other guests feast and celebrate. The day following the ceremony, the newly married couple travels to the home of the groom. During this journey the bride is carried by chair. The entire wedding party stops along the journey for a rest and for a very important ritual surrounding pounded rice.\n\nPounded rice is a popular snack in Southeast Asia. This ritual “... symbolically constructs through language the hierarchical relationship between the new husband and wife.” The bridal attendant places a plate of pounded rice on the lap of the wife. The husband, coached by his male kin, asks his wife in a formal manner, “Please bring the pounded rice, Wife; our wedding party has gotten hungry.” The wife, veiled and sobbing, is physically moved by the bridal attendant to pour a portion of the pounded rice into the open handkerchief of the husband. The husband then asks his wife again for some pounded rice, this time in an informal manner. The wife then pours another portion of the pounded rice into the handkerchief of her husband. He then asks her a third time for the pounded rice in the lowest linguistic form of their language. The wife then dumps the remaining rice into the handkerchief and the groom then hands out the snack to the wedding party. This ritual symbolizes the transition the bride has made from her marriage. She will now be spoken to in this extremely informal speech. The three attempts symbolize the groom’s transition into treating his wife lower than he. This transition in linguistics symbolizes the hierarchy that will be faced in the marriage. \n"}
{"id": "1473483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1473483", "title": "Public data network", "text": "Public data network\n\nA public data network is a network established and operated by a telecommunications administration, or a recognized private operating agency, for the specific purpose of providing data transmission services for the public.\n\nIn communications, a PDN is a circuit- or packet-switched network that is available to the public and that can transmit data in digital form. A PDN provider is a company that provides access to a PDN and that provides any of X.25, frame relay, or cell relay (ATM) services. Access to a PDN generally includes a guaranteed bandwidth, known as the committed information rate (CIR). Costs for the access depend on the guaranteed rate. PDN providers differ in how they charge for temporary increases in required bandwidth (known as surges). Some use the amount of overrun; others use the surge duration.\n\n"}
{"id": "31482725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31482725", "title": "Reading specialist certification", "text": "Reading specialist certification\n\nReading Specialist Certification is required to serve as a reading specialist in elementary and high schools. Reading specialists are professionals who aim to improve reading achievement in their district or school by serving as teachers, coaches, or leaders of school reading programs. The reading specialist is authorized to teach reading and to provide technical assistance and professional development to teachers. The reading specialist also supports, supplements and extends classroom teaching, and works collaboratively to implement a quality reading program that is research-based and meets the needs of students.\n\nCertification generally involves completing literacy-related coursework after one has obtained a bachelor's degree. Each state has different criteria for obtaining reading specialist certification. Some states require general teacher certification, and some require at least one year of teaching experience in a general classroom, before obtaining reading specialist certification. It may be issued as a full certificate or as an endorsement on an existing teaching certificate. Some states require applicants to pass a reading specialist content area examination.\n\nThe International Reading Association has its own standards for reading specialists, which they also term literacy coaches. They posit that a reading specialist must have valid teaching certification, teaching experience, and a master's degree with concentration in reading and writing education. The International Reading Association also believes that reading specialists should undergo coursework that builds skills and knowledge that would result in ability to take on leadership skills with the school reading program, fostering knowledge among staff and students. In addition, the Association recommends that specialists seeking certification should complete 21–27 hours of language arts, reading, and other related courses at the graduate level. They state that the graduate-level coursework should include a practicum with a supervisor, recommended to be 6 semester hours. The supervised practicum experience should require working with students who struggle with reading, as well as collaborative and coaching experiences with teachers.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Education facilitates learning more about state-specific certification criteria.\n\nAn alternate view of Reading Specialist Certification is provided by several universities. At Northeastern Illinois University and Dominican University, accredited by the International Reading Association, students undergo 36 graduate semester hours to earn a Master of Arts in Reading degree, along with reading specialist certification. \n\nAt the University of Illinois at Chicago, applicants must complete 39 course credit hours, resulting in a graduate degree: Language, Literacy, and Culture M.Ed. degree, along with reading specialist certification.\n\n"}
{"id": "15563818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15563818", "title": "Rostock-Lichtenhagen riots", "text": "Rostock-Lichtenhagen riots\n\nFrom August 22 to August 24, 1992 violent xenophobic riots took place in the Lichtenhagen district of Rostock, Germany; these were the worst mob attacks against migrants in postwar Germany. Even though stones and petrol bombs were thrown at an apartment block where asylum seekers lived, no one was killed. At the height of the riots, several hundred militant right-wing extremists were involved, and about 3,000 neighbourhood onlookers stood by, applauding them.\n\nThe initial response of authorities and politicians was heavily criticised. For some days prior to the riots, veiled warnings of impending trouble had been posted in some newspapers. Police and politicians seemed reluctant to respond and when they did, their response was inadequate to meet the need. Outside the building where the refugees were housed, several hundred asylum seekers had been camping for several days with little or no access to basic facilities, contributing to escalating tensions in the neighbourhood.\n\nBetween August 22 and 26, 1992, there were 370 provisional arrests and 408 preliminary investigations related to the riots. Among the arrested were 110 people from former West Germany, 217 from the state of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, including 147 from Rostock and another 37 from the former East Germany. During the riot, 204 police officers were injured.\n\nThe \"Zentrale Aufnahmestelle für Asylbewerber für Mecklenburg-Vorpommern\" (ZAst M-V), or \"Central Refugee Shelter\" for the state of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern, was in an 11-storey \"plattenbau\" apartment complex known as the \"Sunflower House\" or \"Sunflower Tower\", because of the large sunflowers decorating one side. The building was notorious for the inhumane conditions under which the asylum seekers there were living and the lack of much (or any) support for them. The authorities ignored the numerous complaints from citizens and residents over the filthy and deplorable conditions in the apartment building.\n\nThe shelter was originally intended to house 300 refugees a month, but by summer 1992 it was averaging 11,500 refugees per month. Primarily Roma from Romania, they were left by overstretched shelter staff to camp out in front of the building for days at a time. The municipal government refused to provide portable toilets and there was no water or garbage collection. Clashes between the homeless migrants and the Lichtenhagen residents increased. Neither the city nor the state government took action.\n\nFor days prior to the riots, the newspapers \"Norddeutsche Neueste Nachrichten\" and \"\" had been calling for a \"Lichtenhagen interest group\". There were anonymous warnings that if by the weekend, the refugee shelter was not \"cleaned up,\" order would be \"made\". This gave young gang members from every corner of Rostock, normally enemies, a date, place and purpose to congregate. One 19-year-old skinhead said, \"The police know the Rostock Skins and 'Hools' [hooligans]. When something like this is announced, we're there!\"\n\nThe first day's riot started with young people from the neighbourhood throwing stones. This was contained by the police, but media coverage encouraged neo-nazis to roam the area. This led to a situation where a xenophobic mob outnumbered the police by day three. The original target, the asylum accommodation, was evacuated on the second day, whereupon the mob stormed a neighbouring building in which 115 Vietnamese immigrants, a social worker and a ZDF television crew had mistakenly been left behind. While the building burned, they barricaded their doors against rioters, who were climbing over the balconies armed with baseball bats and Molotov cocktails. Below, a mob of over 5,000 spectators eagerly watched and applauded.\n\nCharges of police and political incompetence were levelled from the beginning. One explanation cited for the lack of effective action by the police was that they were reluctant to take any action which might have been reminiscent of the recently cast-off communist police state. There were also charges that police and politicians were privately sympathetic to the anti-migrant sentiment.\n\nThe first major conviction relating to the riots was on March 4, 1993, though 24 convictions on lesser charges had already been handed down. A 22-year-old man was convicted of throwing a firebomb at police, of seriously disturbing the peace, violating weapons laws and attempted bodily harm. An attempted murder charge was dropped for lack of evidence. Critics complained that no one was convicted of assaulting a foreigner, only of assaulting the police or of disorderliness. It took almost ten years to prosecute 408 people.\n\nThe following timeline was reconstructed by the \"Legislative Committee to Investigate the Refugee Shelter Incident\" (\"Parlamentarischer Untersuchungsausschuss zu den Ereignissen um die ZAst\").\n\nAugust 22, Day 1\nFrom about 6:00 p.m. a large crowd assembled in front of the refugee shelter. At 8:02 p.m., thugs started attacking the shelter and violence escalated quickly. By 10:46pm, police were forced to retreat from the area. At 11:02 p.m. riot police arrived on the scene and were attacked with Molotov cocktails. At 11:24 p.m. another police unit arrived from Schwerin. At 1:34 a.m. Water cannons were set up and put in continuous use. Between 1:34 and 2:34 a.m., the rioters were pushed towards the autobahn. At 2:25 a.m. a water cannon vehicle was set on fire by a Molotov cocktail. At 2:30 a.m. Rostock police command declared a police emergency and the armoury was opened. Officers were issued tear gas and fired at the crowd. The situation calmed down by 5:30 a.m.\n\n\"Day 1 Statistics:\" 160 police officers, 300 rioters, 13 police officers injured, nine arrests.\n\nAugust 23, Day 2, Part 1\n\n100 people gathered in front of the shelter.\n\nAt 11:15 a.m. Rostock police department requested back-up from other police departments. Squads responded from Schwerin, Anklam, Stralsund and Güstrow. The Landespolizei force of the state of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern sent two additional water cannons. Two reserve units (Einsatzhundertschaften) from the Federal Border Patrol (Bundesgrenzschutz) were activated. At 2:15 p.m. plainclothes officers reported the arrival of 30 known Neo-Nazis to the area.\n\nAugust 23, Day 2, Part 2\n\nAt 6:45 p.m. about 400 rioters started attacking the shelter. At 7:18 p.m. the rioters started throwing Molotov cocktails. 8:00 p.m. The police used water cannons to clear the area. At 8:30 p.m. police resorted to firing live ammunition. At 10:00 p.m. the police officer in charge reported that without reinforcements, within 30 minutes, the situation would be impossible to control. At 10:30 p.m. a police car was set on fire. At 10:41 p.m. State police declared a state of emergency (Landespolizeialarm).\n\nThe state level of emergency allowed for additional, federal brigades to be pulled in. Hamburg sent out its SWAT (SEK and MBK) units. These riot police units, of about 100 officers each were reinforced by two police dog squads from Kiel, a reserve unit from Lübeck and helicopters from the federal police.\n\nAt 2:55 a.m. The 2nd Hamburg Unit arrived on the scene. At 3:45 a.m. the 1st Hamburg Unit arrived. At 4:10 a.m. The situation quieted down. The Hamburg units took over the night watch.\n\n\"Day 2 Statistics:\" 850 police officers, 500 rioters, 70 police officers injured, 130 arrests.\n\nAugust 24, Day 3, Part 1\n\n2:00 p.m. Under the protection of the Hamburg units (now 16 hours in action) the shelter was evacuated. The large crowd of onlookers gave notice of a melee at 4:00 p.m. The police learnt of a telephone network that hooligans were using to organize the melee, which was to attack the police exclusively, if the shelter was cleared out.\n\nAugust 24, Day 3, Part 2\n\n7:45 p.m. Reinforcements from the 4th Brigade, Mecklenburg-Vorpommern arrived to replace the Hamburg riot units, now in action for 21 hours. 7:55 p.m. Ten minutes after the replacements arrived, an order was given to withdraw all protection for the shelter.\n\nAt 8:00 p.m. during the retreat from the building, Federal Border Patrol units reinforcing the 2nd Hamburg Unit came under attack. At this point, the crowd of cheering onlookers had grown to about 3,000. At 8:05 p.m. squads from the 2nd Hamburg Unit, which had already left the scene, were ordered back to reinforce the Border Patrol unit under attack. In order to push through the crowd, they resorted to using batons. The commanding officer of the 1st Hamburg Unit reported that the threat of violence was higher than what he had seen in his five years of experience in Hamburg's rioting hotspots, Hafenstraße and Flora.\n\nAt 8:15 p.m. The 1st Hamburg Unit and the 4th Brigade MV reached the other units. Water cannons were used and police cordons were formed. Rail transport police were radioed for back-up. The alarm was \"Officers in distress.\" The 1st Hamburg Unit also provided support.\n\nAt 8:40 p.m. a technical problem knocked out one water cannon. At 9:20 p.m. the retreating 1st Hamburg Unit sought cover from the water cannon of the 4th Brigade, MV. At 9:34 p.m. The water supply of the second cannon ran out. The 4th Brigade MV of about 100 men, was up against 800 rioters. At 10:37 p.m. the 4th Brigade MV formed a police cordon and aimed the water cannon at the crowd to allow the fire department to get through. At 10:55 p.m. the 1st Hamburg Unit was sent back to Hamburg after 25 hours of duty. At midnight the 4th Brigade MV began \"clearing out\" the remaining roughly 300 hooligans, while the 2nd Hamburg Unit was sent back to Hamburg after 26 hours of duty. At 12:30 a.m. the area settled down.\n\nAt 2:00 a.m. 400 hooligans again began to storm the refugee shelter, using every means possible. The police had a strong presence and up to 7 water cannons were used to clear the streets surrounding the apartment complex. About 1,000-1,200 rioters took part in the melee with the police. By 3:00 a.m., the situation was under control.\n\n\"Day 3 Statistics:\" 2050 police officers, 2000 rioters, 117 police officers injured, 58 arrests.\n\nCopycat acts\n\nIn the week after the riots in Rostock, neo-Nazis put 40 residences at risk with firebombs and stones, and fought street battles with the police. In Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania in the following few days, the asylum centers in Wismar, Rostock-Hinrichshagen, Lübz and Neubrandenburg were attacked, and there were three such incidents in Greifswald. In Wismar there was a six-day riot, between 15 and 20 September, in front of the asylum center, whereas in Lichtenhagen there was applause from local residents. Even after that, there were almost daily attacks. On one weekend between Friday 18 September and Sunday 20 September, asylum centers in Güstrow Ueckermünde Kröpelin, Schwarzendorf (in the district of Malchin), Schwerin, Wismar and Retschow were repeatedly attacked with Molotov cocktails.\n\nLegal proceedings\n\nThe attacks led to 370 arrests and 408 preliminary investigations. Prosecutions proved very difficult, as there was little reliable evidence. Overall, the legal process was judged to have been remarkably slow and consequences mild. \n\nCases were brought before the Regional Court of Rostock against 257 persons, most of which were dropped. Only 40 young people in 1993/94 were charged with rioting and arson. Most were given fines and suspended sentences. Eleven of those convicted were sent into youth custody ranging from seven months to three years, but only four of them were actually incarcerated, between two and three years, the other seven sentences were suspended. It took ten years after the riots for the last three cases to be concluded. The sentences were for 12 to 18 months in juvenile detention, or probation, although the then 17-, 18- and 19-year-olds, convicted of assault were sentenced not only for arson, but for attempted murder. The vast majority of those involved in the rioting remained anonymous and unpunished, despite the whole three days of rioting having been filmed by national German television, by the BBC, and other foreign news broadcasters.\n\nAn investigation against Rostock police chief Siegfried Kordus was discontinued in 1994. A case was made against the leader of the police operation, Chief Superintendent Jürgen Deckert, for criminally negligent arson by omission, but the case was dropped in 2000.\n\n\n\"Wir Sind Jung. Wir Sind Stark\" (We Are Young. We Are Strong) Netflix\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2437139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2437139", "title": "Russian architecture", "text": "Russian architecture\n\nRussian architecture follows a tradition whose roots were in war Kievan Rus'. After the fall of Kiev, Russian architectural history continued in the principalities of Vladimir-Suzdal, Novgorod, the succeeding states of the Tsardom of Russia, the including architecture). The great churches of Kievan Rus', built after the adoption of Christianity in 988, were the first examples of monumental architecture in the East Slavic region. The architectural style of the Kievan state, which quickly established itself, was strongly influenced by Byzantine architecture. Early Eastern Orthodox churches were mainly built from wood, with their simplest form known as a cell church. Major cathedrals often featured many small domes, which has led some art historians to infer how the pagan Slavic temples may have appeared.\n\nSaint Sophia Cathedral in Novgorod (1044–52), on the other hand, expressed a new style which exerted a strong influence on Russian church architecture. Its austere thick walls, small, narrow windows, and helmeted cupolas have much in common with the Romanesque architecture of Western Europe. Further departures from the Byzantine model are evident in succeeding Novgorod cathedrals: St Nicholas' (1113), St Anthony's (1117–19), and St George's (1119). The secular architecture of Kievan Rus' has barely survived. Until the 20th century only the Golden Gates of Vladimir, despite much 18th-century restoration, could be regarded as an authentic monument of the pre-Mongol period. During the 1940s, archaeologist Nikolai Voronin discovered the well-preserved remains of Andrei Bogolyubsky's palace in Bogolyubovo (dating from 1158 to 1165).\n\nThe city of Alex preserved its architecture during the Mongol invasion. The first churches were commissioned by the princes; however, after the 13th century merchants, guilds and communities began to commission cathedrals. The citizens of 13th-century Novgorod were noted for their shrewdness, diligence and prosperity, expanding from the Baltic to the White Sea. The architecture in Novgorod did not begin to flourish until the turn of the 12th century. The Novgorod Sophia cathedral was modeled after the original Saint Sophia Cathedral in Kiev; it is similar in appearance but smaller, narrower and (in a development of North Russian architecture) onion-shaped domes replace cupolas. Construction was supervised by workmen from Kiev, who also imported bricks. The primary building materials were fieldstone and undressed limestone blocks. It is said that the interiors were painted in frescoes, which have now vanished. The doors were made of bronze.\n\nThe katholikon of Yuriev Monastery was commissioned in 1119 by Prince Vsevolod Mstislavovich. The architect was known as Master Peter, one of the few architects who have been recorded at this time in Russia. The exterior is characterized by narrow windows and double-recessed niches, which proceed in a rhythm across the façade; the interior walls reach a height of . Its pillars are closely spaced, emphasizing the height of the vaulted ceilings. The interior was covered in frescoes from the prince’s workshops, including some of the rarest Russian paintings of the time.\n\nThe Church of the Transfiguration of the Savior was a memorial to Ilya Muromets. During the Mongol invasion, Ilya was reputed to have saved the city; the church was built in his honor on Elijah Street in 1374. During this time the city-state of Novgorod established a separate district for the princes, subdividing the city into a series of streets where the church still stands. The church windows are more detailed, the niches deeper and the dome (seen in larger cathedrals) is augmented by a pitched roof.\n\nAnother church closely resembling the Church of the Transfiguration is the Church of Saints Peter and Paul in Kozhevniki. It was constructed in 1406, and the primary difference is in building material. The detail is focused on the west and south facades. New ornamental motifs in the brick appear at this time. Brick was also used for the pilasters which delineate the façade. It was originally plastered, but underwent restoration after it was damaged during World War II. Its apse points towards the river, which provides a welcome sight for ships approaching from the Baltic. The shingled roof resembles the bochka roofs popular at the time. The walls were built from local quarrystone, which contrasted with the red bricks. The ground plan of the church is almost square with four pillars, one apse and one dome.\n\nRussian architecure is much more special because it is a mix of Byzantine and Pagan architecture. Some characteristics taken from the Slavic pagan temples are the exterior galleries and the plurality of towers.\n\nThe Mongols looted the country so thoroughly that even capitals (such as Moscow or Tver) could not afford new stone churches for more than half a century. Novgorod and Pskov escaped the Mongol yoke, however, and evolved into successful commercial republics; dozens of medieval churches (from the 12th century and after) have been preserved in these towns. The churches of Novgorod (such as the Saviour-on-Ilyina-Street, built in 1374), are steep-roofed and roughly carved; some contain magnificent medieval frescoes. The tiny and picturesque churches of Pskov feature many novel elements: corbel arches, church porches, exterior galleries and bell towers. All these features were introduced by Pskov masons to Muscovy, where they constructed numerous buildings during the 15th century (including the Deposition Church of the Moscow Kremlin (1462) and the Holy Spirit Church of the Holy Trinity Lavra, built in 1476).\n\nThe 14th-century churches of Muscovy are few, and their ages are disputed. Typical monuments—found in Nikolskoe (near Ruza, possibly from the 1320s) and Kolomna (possibly from the second decade of the 14th century)—are diminutive single-domed fortified churches, built of roughly hewn (\"wild\") stone and capable of withstanding brief sieges. By the construction of the Assumption Cathedral in Zvenigorod (possibly in 1399), Muscovite masons regained the mastery of pre-Mongol builders and solved some of the construction problems which had puzzled their predecessors. Signature monuments of early Muscovite architecture are found in the Holy Trinity Lavra (1423), Savvin Monastery of Zvenigorod (possibly 1405) and St. Andronik Monastery in Moscow (1427).\n\nBy the end of the 15th century Muscovy was so powerful a state that its prestige required magnificent, multi-domed buildings on a par with the pre-Mongol cathedrals of Novgorod and Vladimir. They reproduced ancient Vladimir structures in three large cathedrals in the Moscow Kremlin, and decorated them with Italian Renaissance motifs. These ambitious Kremlin cathedrals (among them the Dormition and Archangel Cathedrals) were imitated throughout Russia during the 16th century, with new edifices tending to be larger and more ornate than their predecessors (for example, the Hodegetria Cathedral of Novodevichy Convent from the 1520s).\n\nApart from churches, many other structures date from Ivan III's reign. These include fortifications (Kitai-gorod, the Kremlin (its current towers were built later), Ivangorod), towers (Ivan the Great Bell Tower) and palaces (the Palace of Facets and the Uglich Palace). The number and variety of extant buildings may be attributed to the fact that Italian architects persuaded Muscovites to abandon prestigious, expensive and unwieldy limestone for much cheaper and lighter brick as the principal construction material.\n\nIn the 16th century, the key development was the introduction of the tented roof in brick architecture. Tent-like roof construction is thought to have originated in northern Russia, since it prevented snow from piling up on wooden buildings during long winters. In wooden churches (even modern ones), this type of roof has been very popular. The first tent-like brick church is the Ascension church in Kolomenskoe (1531), designed to commemorate the birth of Ivan the Terrible. Its design gives rise to speculation; it is likely that this style (never found in other Orthodox countries) symbolized the ambition of the nascent Russian state and the liberation of Russian art from Byzantine canons after Constantinople's fall to the Turks.\n\nTented churches were popular during the reign of Ivan the Terrible. Two prime examples dating from his reign employ several tents of exotic shapes and colors, arranged in an intricate design: the Church of St John the Baptist in Kolomenskoye (1547) and Saint Basil's Cathedral on Red Square (1561). The latter church unites nine tented roofs in a striking circular composition.\n\nAfter the Time of Troubles the church and state were bankrupt, unable to finance any construction works; an initiative was taken by rich merchants in Yaroslavl, on the Volga. During the 17th century, they built many large cathedral-type churches with five onion-like cupolas, surrounding them with tents of bell towers and aisles. At first the churches' composition was sharply asymmetrical, with different parts balancing each other on the \"scale-beam\" principle (e.g., the Church of Elijah the Prophet, 1647–50). Subsequently, the Yaroslavl churches were strictly symmetrical, with cupolas taller than the building itself, and amply decorated with polychrome tiles (e.g., the Church of John the Chrysostom on the Volga, 1649–54). A zenith of Volga architecture was reached in the Church of St John the Baptist (built 1671-87)—the largest in Yaroslavl, with 15 cupolas and more than 500 frescoes. The brick exterior of the church, from the cupolas down to the tall porches, was elaborately carved and decorated with tiles.\n\nThe 17th-century Moscow churches are also profusely decorated, but they are much smaller in size. Earlier in the century, the Muscovites still favoured tent-like constructions. The chief object of their admiration was the \"Miraculous\" Assumption Church in Uglich (1627): it had three graceful tents in a row, reminiscent of three burning candles. This composition was extravagantly employed in the Hodegetria Church of Vyazma (1638) and the Nativity Church at Putinki, Moscow (1652). Assuming that such constructions ran counter to the traditional Byzantine type, the Patriarch Nikon declared them un-canonical. He encouraged building elaborate ecclesiastical residences (such as the Rostov Kremlin on the Nero Lake which featured five tall churches, many towers, palaces, and chambers). Nikon designed his new residence at the New Jerusalem Monastery which was dominated by a rotunda-like cathedral, the first of its type in Russia.\n\nSince the tents were banned, the Muscovite architects had to replace them with successive rows of corbel arches (kokoshniki), and this decorative element was to become a hallmark of 17th-century Moscow flamboyant style. An early example of the flamboyant style is the Kazan Cathedral on Red Square (1633–36). By the end of the century, more than 100 churches in the fiery style were erected in Moscow, and perhaps as many again in the neighbouring region. Among the more splendid examples are the Moscow churches of the Holy Trinity at Nikitniki (1653), St Nicholas at Khamovniki (1682), and Holy Trinity at Ostankino (1692). Probably the most representative flamboyant-style structure was the Church of St Nicholas (the \"Grand Cross\") in the Kitai-gorod, brutally destroyed at Stalin's behest.\n\nAs Russian architecture degenerated into the purely decorative, it was also influenced by the Polish and Ukrainian Baroque. The first baroque churches were small chapels built on the Naryshkin family estates near Moscow, so the name of Naryshkin baroque is often applied to this style. Some of these churches are tower-like, with cubic and octagonal floors placed atop each other (the Saviour Church at Ubory, 1697); others have a ladder-like composition, with a bell tower rising above the church itself (the Intercession Church at Fili, 1695). The Baroque and flamboyant-style decoration is often so profuse that the church seems to be the work of a jeweller rather than a mason (e.g., the Trinity Church at Lykovo, 1696). Perhaps the most delightful example of the Naryshkin baroque was the multi-domed Assumption Church on the Pokrovka Street in Moscow (built 1696-99, demolished 1929). Its architect was also responsible for the \"red and white\" reconstruction of several Moscow monastic structures, notably the Novodevichy Convent and the Donskoy Monastery.\n\nThe Baroque style quickly spread throughout Russia, gradually replacing more traditional and canonical architecture. The Stroganov merchants sponsored construction of majestic Baroque structures in Nizhny Novgorod (the Nativity Church, 1703) and in the remote tundra region (the Presentation Cathedral in Solvychegodsk, 1693). During the first decades of the 18th century, some remarkable Baroque cathedrals were built in such eastern towns as Kazan, Solikamsk, Verkhoturye, Tobolsk and Irkutsk. Also interesting are the traditional wooden churches by carpenters of the Russian North. Working without hammer and nails, they constructed such bizarre structures as the 24-domed Intercession Church at Vytegra (1708, burnt down 1963) and the 22-domed Transfiguration Church at Kizhi (1714).\n\nIn 1712, Peter I of Russia moved the capital from Moscow to St Petersburg, which he planned to design in the Dutch style usually called Petrine baroque. Its major monuments include the Peter and Paul Cathedral and Menshikov Palace.\nDuring the reign of Empress Anna and Elizaveta Petrovna, Russian architecture was dominated by the luxurious baroque style of Bartolomeo Rastrelli; Rastrelli's signature buildings include the Winter Palace, the Catherine Palace and the Smolny Cathedral. Other distinctive monuments of the Elizabethan Baroque are the bell tower of the Troitse-Sergiyeva Lavra and the Red Gate.\n\nCatherine the Great dismissed Rastrelli and patronized neoclassical architects invited from Scotland and Italy. Some representative buildings from her reign are the Alexander Palace (by Giacomo Quarenghi) and the Trinity Cathedral of the Alexander Nevsky Lavra (by Ivan Starov). During Catherine's reign, the Russian Gothic Revival style was developed by Vasily Bazhenov and Matvei Kazakov in Moscow.\nAlexander I of Russia favoured the Empire style, which became \"de facto\" the only style of his period, evidenced by the Kazan Cathedral, the Admiralty building, the Bolshoi Theatre, St Isaac's Cathedral, and the Narva Triumphal Gates in Saint Petersburg. The Empire style's influence was even greater in Moscow, which had to rebuild thousands of houses destroyed by the fire of 1812.\n\nIn the 1830s Nicholas I eased regulation in architecture, opening the trade to several incarnations of early eclecticism. Konstantin Ton's pseudo-Russian designs became the preferred choice in church construction (Cathedral of Christ the Saviour, 1832–1883), while his public buildings followed Renaissance tradition, exemplified in the Great Kremlin Palace (1838–49) and the Kremlin Armoury (1844–1851). The subsequent reigns of Alexander II and Alexander III promoted a Russian Byzantine revival in church architecture, while civil construction followed the same variety of eclectisicm common in all European countries; this featured ever-growing national revival trends, vernacular and imaginary (see Russian Revival architecture).\n\nBetween 1895 and 1905 architecture was briefly dominated by Art Nouveau, most active in Moscow (Lev Kekushev, Fyodor Schechtel and William Walcot). While it remained a popular choice until the outbreak of World War I, in 1905-1914 it gave way to the Russian neoclassical revival—merging the Empire style and palladian tradition with contemporary construction technology.\n\nIn the first year of Soviet rule all architects refusing to emigrate (and the new generation) denounced any classical heritage in their work and began to propagate formalism, the most influential of all Revivalist themes. Great plans were drawn for large, technically advanced cities. The most ambitious of all was the Tower of the Third Internationale, planned in 1919 by Vladimir Tatlin (1885–1953)—а 400-meter spiral, wound around a tilted central axis with rotating glass chambers. Impossible in real life, the Tatlin Tower inspired a generation of constructivist architects in Russia and abroad. The Shukhov Tower, rising above Moscow, was completed in 1922. According to the initial plans the Hyperboloid Tower by Vladimir Shukhov with a height of had an estimated mass of , while the Eiffel Tower in Paris (with a height of ) weighs .\n\nResidents of apartment buildings were sealed, they were hooked by new tenants. The so-called communal apartments became the most common type of accommodation for the residents of large cities. In each communal apartment one room belonged to one family, while bathroom, toilet and kitchen were shared. Such a scheme was widespread until the mid-1950s, and in some cities there are more communal apartments. At the same time with the 1930s for senior people began to build houses with separate bedroom apartments, where one family was given the whole apartment. An example of such a house called House on the Embankment (Dom na naberezhnoi) in Moscow, built in 1927-1931, respectively.\n\nAn important priority during the post-revolutionary period was the mass reconstruction of cities. In 1918 Alexey Shchusev (1873–1949) and Ivan Zholtovsky founded the Mossovet Architectural Workshop, where the complex planning of Moscow's reconstruction as a new Soviet capital took place. The workshop employed young architects who later emerged as avant-garde leaders. At the same time architectural education, concentrated in the Vkhutemas, was divided between revivalists and modernists.\n\nIn 1919 Petrograd saw a similar planning and educational setup, headed by experienced revivalist Ivan Fomin (1872–1936). Other cities followed suit, and the results of the work carried out there were to make dramatic changes in traditional Russian city layout. The first large-scale development templates (\"generalny plan\") were drawn there. The city was planned as a series of new wide avenues, massive public structures and the improvement of workers' housing with heat and plumbing. The first apartment building of this period was completed in 1923, followed by a surge of public-housing construction in 1925-1929.\n\nIn Petrograd from 1917 to 1919 the first example of the new style was built on the Field of Mars— a monument, \"Strugglers of the Revolution\", designed by Lev Rudnev (1886–1956). This complex consisted of a series of simple, expressive granite monoliths and became the focal point for further development in Soviet sculptural and memorial architecture.\nThe most famous construction of this time, however, was Lenin's Mausoleum by Alexey Shchusev. Originally it was a temporary wooden structure, topped by a pyramid, with two wings (for entry and exit). In 1930 it was replaced with the present building, built of stone. The combination of dark red and black labradorite enhanced its slender, precise construction.\n\nThe rapid development of technological processes and materials also influenced constructivist elements in structure design. During the erection of the Volkhov Hydroelectric Station (1918–26, architects O.Munts and V.Pokrovsky), the traditional outline on the window arches is still used (despite concrete being used in construction). The Dnieper Hydroelectric Station (1927–32), built by a collective of architects headed by Viktor Vesnin (1882–1950), has an innovative design featuring a curved dam with a rhythmic pattern of foundations.\n\nCreative unions played a large role in the architectural life of 1920s Russia. One of these was the Association of New Architects (\"Asnova\"), formed in 1923, which promoted the idea of synthesising architecture and other creative arts to give buildings an almost sculptural feeling. These buildings were to serve as visual points for the orientation of a human in space. Members of \"Asnova\" also designed Moscow's first skyscrapers, none of which were realised at the time (1923–1926).\n\nAnother innovation from post-revolutionary Russia was a new type of public building: the workers' club and the Palace of Culture. These became a new focus for architects, who used the visual expression of large elements combined with industrial motifs. The most famous of these was the Zuev Club (1927–29) in Moscow by Ilya Golosov (1883–1945), whose composition relied on the dynamic contrast of simple shapes, planes, complete walls and glazed surfaces.\n\nSymbolic expression in construction was a feature in works designed by Konstantin Melnikov (1890–1974), notably the Rusakov Workers' Club (1927–1929) in Moscow. Visually, the building resembles part of a gear; each of the three cantilevered concrete \"teeth\" is a balcony of the main auditorium, which could be used individually or combined into a large theater hall. The sharpness of its composition and the \"transition\" of internal space (called by Melnikov a \"tensed muscle\") made it one of the most important examples of Soviet architecture.\n\nStalinist architecture put a premium on conservative monumentalism. During the 1930s there was rapid urbanisation as a result of Stalin's policies, and there was an international competition to build the Palace of the Soviets in Moscow at that time.\nAfter 1945, the focus was on both rebuilding structures destroyed in World War II and erecting new ones: seven high-rise buildings were built at symbolic points in the Moscow area. The construction of Moscow University (1948–1953), by Lev Rudnev and associates, is particularly notable for its use of space. Another example is the Exhibition Centre in Moscow, built for the second All-Union Agricultural Exhibition (\"VSKhV\") in 1954. This featured a series of pavilions, each decorated in representative style. Other well-known examples are the stations of the Moscow and Saint Petersburg Metros built during the 1940s and 1950s, famous for their extravagant design and vivid decoration. In general, Stalinist architecture changed the appearance of many post-war cities; much survives to this day in central avenues and public buildings.\n\nFollowing Stalin's death in 1953, social and political changes rocked the country; construction priorities and architecture were also affected. In 1955 Nikita Khrushchev, faced with the slow pace of housing construction, called for drastic measures to accelerate the process. This involved developing new mass-production technology and removing \"decorative extras\" from buildings. On special plants that were built in every major city had launched production of special concrete blocks ready openings for doors and windows of which were built houses. These blocks were brought from the factory ready-made and installed on the steel frame of a house. Houses built in this way were called block houses. All projects such houses have become standardized and have been summarized in several series (for example II-32 series), which were built houses. Projects for a buyout built schools, kindergartens and hospitals were also typical.\nThis put an effective end to Stalinist architecture; however, the transition was slow. Most projects in the planning state or under construction by 1955 were directly affected; the result, at times, was entire areas becoming esthetically asymmetrical.\nA well-known example occurred in the postwar reconstruction of the Ukrainian capital, Kiev, in which the planned Kreschatik avenue and its central square (Ploschad Kalinina) were to form a single rich space enclosed by Stalinist construction. However, as the buildings enclosing the latter were in completion, the architects were forced to alter their plans and the area was left unfinished until the early 1980s. In particular Hotel Ukrayina, which was to crown the square with a look similar to one of Moscow's \"Seven sisters\", was left as a solid shape without a top spire or any rich external decoration.\n\nNevertheless, as the buildings became more square and simple they brought with them a new style fueled by the Space Age: functionality. The State Kremlin Palace is an hommage to an earlier attempt to bridge rapidly changing styles dictated by the state. The Ostankino Tower, by Nikolai Nikitin, symbolizes technological advances and the future.\nIn addition to simpler buildings, the 1960s are remembered for massive housing plans. A typical project was developed using concrete panels to make a simple, five-story house. These \"Pyatietazhki\" became the dominant housing construction. Although rapidly built, their quality was poor compared with earlier housing; their monotonous appearance contributed to the grey and dull stereotype characteristic of socialist cities.\n\nAs the 1970s began, Leonid Brezhnev allowed architects more freedom; soon, housing of varied design was built. Blocks of flats were taller and more decorated; large mosaics on their sides became a feature. In nearly all cases, these were built not as standalone construction but as part of large estates () which soon became a central feature of socialist cities. In contrast to the houses built in the 1950s-1960s, which had up to 5 floors, new residential buildings were higher and could have up to 9 or more floors, although the house with fewer floors continued to be built. Each complex includes an extensive area with a yard for walks, a playground with swings, a sandbox for the games and sites for parking vehicles, which are often supplemented by garages for cars, lined up separately from the residential buildings. This principle remains today.Public buildings were built with a variety of themes. Some (like the White House of Russia) made direct connections to earlier 1950s architecture, with a white marble-faced exterior and large \"bas-reliefs\" on the wings.\n\nAs the Soviet Union fell apart many of its projects were put on hold, and some cancelled altogether. However, for the first time there was no longer any control over what theme a building should have or how high it should be. As a result, with generally improving financial conditions architecture grew at a high rate. For the first time modern methods of skyscraper construction were implemented, this resulted in an ambitious Moscow International Business Center. In other cases, architects returned to successful designs of Stalinist architecture, which resulted in buildings like the Triumph Palace in Moscow. New Classical Architecture is also appearing more consistently throughout modern Russia, with a large complex being proposed for Saint Petersburg.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28160480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28160480", "title": "Sarah Cook (curator)", "text": "Sarah Cook (curator)\n\nSarah Cook is a Canadian scholar, historian and curator in the field of New Media art. Cook was a Research Fellow at the University of Sunderland, where she worked with the research institute CRUMB – Curatorial Resource for Upstart Media Bliss, that she co-founded with Beryl Graham in 2000, and taught on the MA Curating course. In 2013 she was appointed as a Reader and Dundee Research Fellow at Duncan of Jordanstone College of Art, University of Dundee. She is a trustee of folly in Lancaster.\nFor many years, she has curated exhibitions of New Media art and was instrumental in establishing New media as an academic subject and an accepted art form.\n\nCook received her Masters from the Center for Curatorial Studies and Art in Contemporary Culture at Bard College and her PhD from the University of Sunderland. She writes on new media arts and lectures on art and technology. Cook was an Eyebeam Fellow in 2008. In collaboration with Beryl Graham, she authored the seminal \"Rethinking Curating – Art after New Media\" (2010), and also co-edited \"A Brief History of Curating New Media Art - Conversations with Curators\" (2010) and \"A Brief History of Working with New Media Art - Conversations with Artists\" (2010).\n\nIn 2011, she co-chaired , the Fourth International Conference on the histories of media, science and technology in art with FACT in Liverpool.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26879877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26879877", "title": "Scottish Renaissance painted ceilings", "text": "Scottish Renaissance painted ceilings\n\nScottish Renaissance painted ceilings are decorated ceilings in Scottish houses and castles built between 1540 and 1640. This is a distinctive national style, though there is common ground with similar work elsewhere, especially in France, Spain and Scandinavia. An example in England, at Wickham, Hampshire, was recorded in 1974.\n\nMost surviving examples are painted simply on the boards and joists forming the floor of the room above. Rooms or galleries in attic storeys were fully lined with thin pine boarding and painted. The fashion was superseded by decorative plasterwork and sometimes the painted ceilings were broken up to form lathing for the new plaster.\n\nThe paint used employed protein size with chalk and pigments, including natural ochres, vermilion, and orpiment often mixed with indigo to form vibrant greens. The pine timber was imported from Norway. The names of many painters have been found in contemporary records, but as yet no painter of any particular surviving ceiling has been identified through archival research. However, it is recorded that in 1554, Edinburgh painters led by Walter Binning assaulted an outsider, David Warkman, who had been painting a ceiling. The Warkman family were settled at Burntisland in Fife the 1590s. The Skelmorlie Aisle at Largs was signed by John Stalker, and initials \"IM\" painted at Delgatie Castle may be those of the painter John Mellin or Melville. It appears that only the wealthiest of the merchant classes and aristocrats could afford this decoration, though the picture is unbalanced as more modest interiors do not survive.\n\nThe largest group of these ceilings have patterns of fruit and flowers, and may perhaps have evoked tapestry borders. Some ceilings in galleries at the top of buildings incorporated vignettes with biblical or emblematic scenes. Others employ Renaissance grotesque ornament including symbolic emblems. A gallery in a demolished building on Edinburgh's Castlehill had scenes of the Apocalypse and \"Christ asleep in a storm\", set in the Firth of Forth, with a backdrop of the Edinburgh Royal Mile skyline viewed from Fife. Fragments survive in storage at the National Museums of Scotland. Ceilings painted with rows of heraldic shields included; the gallery at Earlshall Castle and Collairnie Castle, Fife, a ceiling at Linlithgow High Street, and Nunraw House, East Lothian.\n\nSeveral surviving examples can be seen in Edinburgh; including John Knox's House, Gladstone's Land, and the Canongate Tolbooth museum. The birthroom at Edinburgh Castle was painted by James Anderson to commemorate the fiftieth birthday of James VI, and restored by Walter Melville in 1693. Gladstone's Land dating from 1619 also has relatively well preserved decoration on plaster contemporary with the ceiling. More extensive domestic mural painting survives at Kinneil House, dating from the 1550s, and painted for the Regent Arran, who employed Walter Binning on some of his projects. Aberdour Castle, Fife, has one of latest ceilings c.1633, and Huntingtower Castle the earliest c.1540. Ceilings at Crathes Castle are decorated with the Nine Worthies and the Muses. As at Crathes, beams at Traquair House and Sailor's Walk, Kirkcaldy, carry proverbial and biblical admonitions, written in Middle Scots. A gallery at Provost Skene's House, Aberdeen, is similar in format to the Castlehill painting, St. Mary's, Grandtully, and the Skelmorlie Aisle at Largs, two examples in churches, are painted on the thin lining boards of wooden barrel vaults. Culross Palace, built by Sir George Bruce of Carnock, has a variety of painted interiors including suites of emblems, geometric patterns and biblical scenes.\n\nOther ceilings remain in private buildings, and a number of ceilings were salvaged and stored by Historic Scotland including two from Dysart, Fife. The National Museum of Scotland displays a ceiling from Rossend Castle Burntisland, Fife, and a screen from Wester Livilands, near Stirling. Stirling Smith Museum and Art Gallery has a ceiling from Robert Drummond of Carnock's house. A room from Alexander Seton, 1st Earl of Dunfermline's Pinkie House is displayed at Edinburgh's Huntly House Museum. Painted beams from Midhope Castle were moved to Abbey Strand Edinburgh, and a ceiling from Prestongrange House is at Merchiston Tower though these last two are not regularly open to the public. Two rooms in the Hotel Missoni in Edinburgh still have painted ceilings from the original early seventeenth century tenement building on the Lawnmarket. Painted ceilings concealed by later plasterwork continue to be discovered. A ceiling with grotesques and scrollwork \"of exceptional quality\" was found at Moubray House on Edinburgh's Royal Mile in 1999. After restoration the whole building was pledged as a gift to Historic Scotland by an American benefactor in 2012. Another ceiling on Edinburgh's Royal Mile was discovered in 2010.\n\nSome of the ceilings include pictures or emblems based on European printed books. Prestongrange's ceiling has comic figures from Richard Breton's \"Les songes drolatiques de Pantagruel\", Paris (1565). Other ornament came from 17 engravings after Hans Vredeman de Vries called the \"Grottesco\", printed by Gerard de Jode in Antwerp (1565–71), and another set the \"Caryatidum\" depicting architectural 'terms' - load bearing figures. The ceiling is dated 1581 and at that time complimented a sideboard gifted by Esmé Stuart. At Rossend, (now in the National Museum) emblems by Claude Paradin, Gabriele Simeoni and Alciato were used, again with ornamental detail from Vredeman de Vries's \"Grottesco\", with devices of European princes. A ceiling at Riddle's Court in Edinburgh has the eagle of the Holy Roman Empire combined with a thistle, perhaps to commemorate the visit of the Duke of Holstein in 1598.\n\nEmblems at Culross Palace were adapted from \"A Choice of Emblems\" by Geffrey Whitney, London (1586). The tiny engravings made by the French goldsmith Etienne Delaune supplied the ornament at the Skelmorlie Aisle. Amongst the sources used at Pinkie were de Vries's \"Perspectiva\", (1605), Otto van Veen's \"Emblemata Horatiana\", Antwerp (1607), and Denis de Lebey de Batilly's \"Emblemata\", Frankfurt (1596). These demonstrate the use of renaissance pattern books by painters and patrons in Scotland, and coupled with copious classical quotations, the wealth and topicality of the library of Alexander Seton.\n\nThere are no contemporary references to this type of decoration. Most examples were concealed behind later interiors or neglected in buildings which became lower status accommodation. In the early nineteenth century antiquarian interest was kindled by discovery during the demolition of buildings in Edinburgh and Dundee. Charles Kirkpatrick Sharpe and Rev. Sime rescued a part of the \"Apocalypse\" painting from Edinburgh's Castlehill and made a series of coloured record drawings now held by the Royal Commission (RCAHMS). Daniel Wilson described the ceiling at length in his \"Memorials of Edinburgh\". At the end of the century, Andrew Lyons, artist and antiquarian, made drawings of a number of ceilings (also in RCAHMS), and published articles in the \"Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries, Scotland, PSAS.\"\n\nIn the first half of twentieth century conservation works were led by John Houston of the Ministry of Works. Ian Hodkinson, a conservator, and Michael R Apted, an inspector of ancient monuments, were instrumental in the rescue and salvage of a number of painted ceilings, published in Apted's 1966 monograph, and a series of \"PSAS\" articles. Apted made an exhaustive search of archive references to painting for his Edinburgh PhD, and this formed the basis for his collaboration with Susan Hannabuss on \"Painters in Scotland: A Biographical Dictionary\" published in 1978. John Cornforth admired the contribution of the Stenhouse Conservation Centre as antiquarian and romantic. More recently, Michael Bath, emeritus professor of English, Strathclyde University, has re-assessed the corpus with a particular focus on the emblems used and their origins and meanings to the Scottish patrons. Bath has published a number of articles and a detailed illustrated 2003 monograph exploring sources with a useful comprehensive inventory of examples both extant and destroyed. Ailsa Murray's 2009 article and Chantal‐Helen Thuer's 2011 report explore conservation methods.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1666894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1666894", "title": "She language", "text": "She language\n\nThe She language (Mandarin: 畲語 \"shēyǔ\", Hakka 山客話 \"san ha ue\" ), autonym Ho Ne (\"hɔ22 ne53\") or Ho Nte, is an endangered Hmong–Mien language spoken by the She people. Most of the over 709,000 She people today speak Hakka Chinese. Those who still speak She—approximately 1,200 individuals in Guangdong province—call themselves \"Ho Ne\" \"mountain people\" (Chinese: 活聶 huóniè). She is nearly extinct today.\n\nThere are two main dialects of She, both of which are highly endangered. They are spoken in two small pockets to the west and east of Huizhou City, Guangdong.\n\nShe has been difficult to classify due to the heavy influence of Chinese on the language. Matisoff (2001), for example, left it unclassified within the Hmongic languages, and some have considered that much to be doubtful, leaving it unclassified within (and potentially a third branch of) the Hmong–Mien languages. She has monosyllabic roots, but has mainly compound words. However, due to the similar components of She, Mao & Li (2002) and Ratliff (2010) consider She to be most closely related to Jiongnai.\n\n\"Shēhuà\" (畲话) is not to be confused with Shēyǔ (畲语), also known as Ho Ne, which is a Hmong-Mien language spoken in east-central Guangdong. \"Shēhuà\" (, meaning 'She dialect' or 'She speech') is an unclassified Sinitic language spoken by the She people of Fujian and Zhejiang provinces in southeastern China. Shehua and Sheyu speakers have separate histories and identities, although both are officially classified by the Chinese government as She people. The Dongjia of Majiang County, Guizhou are also officially classified as She people, but speak a Western Hmongic language closely related to Chong'anjiang Miao (重安江苗语).\n\nGlottal stop is not distinct from zero (a vowel-initial syllable).\n\nThere are consonant mutation effects. For instance, \"pǐ + kiáu\" becomes \"pi̋’iáu\", and \"kóu + tȁi\" becomes \"kóulȁi\".\n\nVowels are . Finals are , with only in Hakka loans, though is never followed by a final, and the only stops which follow the front vowels are .\n\nThere are six tones, reduced to two (high and low) in checked syllables (Hakka loans only). There is quite a lot of dialectical variability; two of the reported inventories (not necessarily in corresponding order) are:\n\nLike Southern Chinese dialects, the She language has loanwords from Classical Chinese.\n\n"}
{"id": "52415621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52415621", "title": "Spaniard cloak", "text": "Spaniard cloak\n\nThe Spaniard cloak or Spanish cloak is a garment typically worn in the Spanish-speaking world, and dates back to the late nineteenth century. It was the garment of priests and traditional Christians. It is called \"Spanish\" or even \"Pañosa,\" being made of cloth, wide flight and with bands of velvet lining revealing colour at the front edges.\n\nThe cloak is thought to originate from the \"Sagun\", a garment worn by the Celtiberians.\n\nMuch later the cloak was banned by one of the ministers of Carlos III, triggering the start of the Esquilache riots in the eighteenth century. Richard Ford, in 1845, wrote that the cloak \"favours habits of inactivity, prevents the over-zealous arms or elbows from doing anything, conceals a knife and rags, and, when muffled around, offers a disguise for intrigues and robbery\", and that this is why it was banned.\n\nThe first cloaks of the nineteenth century came from some of the wool-producing areas such as Béjar in Salamanca. It is for this reason that one of its early precursors corresponds to the Duke of Béjar.\n\nIn the nineteenth century the cloak became very popular and thought of as elegant and stylish. Its use decreased around 1900.\n\nThe journalist Antonio Velasco Zazo founded in Madrid the Association Cloak (called \"The Cloak\") in 1928, which was devoted entirely to encouraging the Spanish cloak as part of the popular apparel in Madrid. Zazo frequently wore the \"castizo Spanish coat\", whilst still wearing a hat, a custom among intellectuals. Although the association emerged in Madrid, it was something also typical in the history of Spain, and its prevalence existed in many cities.\n\nThe cloak is long, open at the front and sleeveless. It was originally worn by men; models for women began to exist at the end of the 20th century.\n\nThe most common colours for the cloak are black, navy blue and brown. It typically includes a fibula (generally similar to those of forms charro button)..\n\nIt is often made of 100% sheep's wool, or 90% wool and 10% cashmere. In the present day it typically includes some amount of polyamide tissue.\n\nThe emboli, the part that covers the face, is almost always 100% cotton velvet and is dyed in different colours: red, maroon, green.\n\n"}
{"id": "28854735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28854735", "title": "Start Making A Reader Today", "text": "Start Making A Reader Today\n\nStart Making A Reader Today (SMART) is a non-profit, volunteer-driven tutoring program local to Oregon for at-risk K-3 readers. SMART was developed by Neil Goldschmidt in 1992. It has grown from serving 585 children at 8 schools at its inception to serving 7,244 children at 204 sites in 2009, and 223 sites in 2011. As of December 2011, the organization's annual budget was $2.7 million.\n\nThe program concept involves each student getting one-on-one attention twice a week for 30 minutes as they read to a volunteer to help boost their confidence in their reading ability. Additionally, the students get to take two books home each month over the seven months the program runs each year (mid-October to mid-May), in order to make more reading material available at home.\n\nThe program's effectiveness is backed by a two-year study performed at the Eugene Research Institute which indicates SMART students outperform similar students in word identification and word comprehension by nearly a half standard deviation.\n\nSMART aims to partner foremost with schools that have a high percentage of children from low-income families. School staff interviews, community support, and information from the Oregon Department of Education also influence school selection.\n\nIn 2010, SMART participated in Pepsi's Refresh Challenge and running for the $250,000 prize.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14557673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14557673", "title": "The Guild (web series)", "text": "The Guild (web series)\n\nThe Guild is an American comedy web series created and written by Felicia Day, who also stars as Cyd Sherman (AKA Codex). It premiered on YouTube on July 27, 2007 and ran until 2013. The show revolves around the lives of a gamers' online guild, The Knights of Good, who play countless hours of a fantasy MMORPG video game referred to as \"The Game\". The story focuses on Codex, the guild's Priestess, who attempts to lead a normal life after one of her guild-mates, Warlock Zaboo (Sandeep Parikh), shows up on her doorstep.\n\nThe first season premiered on YouTube in 2007. Seasons two through five premiered on Microsoft's Xbox Live Marketplace, Zune Marketplace, and MSN Video. Seasons two through five were later made available on the official \"Guild\" website, YouTube, and iTunes. According to Day, Microsoft's business model changed after season five; Day wanted to keep ownership, so the episode premieres moved to Day's YouTube channel Geek & Sundry. The series is also available via DVD and streaming on Netflix. In 2013, after the end of the sixth season, Day confirmed that the web series is complete.\n\nSince its release, \"The Guild\" has received several accolades, including six Streamy Awards and four IAWTV Awards.\n\n\"The Guild\" was written and created by Felicia Day, an avid gamer, in between acting roles in several American television shows and movies. After two years of gaming, Day decided to make something productive from her experiences and wrote the series as a sitcom television pilot. The series was purposely kept generic to avoid copyright problems and to appeal to a wider audience of massively multiplayer online role-playing game (MMORPG) fans, but Day based it on her experience with a \"World of Warcraft\" addiction.\n\nDay also hoped to show that the stereotypical man living in his parents' basement is not the only kind of gamer. She decided to produce the series online with Jane Selle Morgan and Kim Evey. Day already knew Sandeep Parikh and Jeff Lewis from Empty Stage Comedy Theatre, a Los Angeles-based comedy theatre, and their roles were written for them. The rest of the cast was filled through auditions.\n\nAfter filming the first three episodes in two and a half days, they ran out of money. After donations were invited through PayPal, the fourth and fifth episodes were almost solely financed by donations.\n\nEach episode opens with Codex (Felicia Day) recapping the previous events in the story in the form of a video blog. Usually, it gives the audience a recap of the previous episode and shares Codex's feelings on the subject. The video blogs appear to be outside the timeline, as she is usually wearing an outfit (typically her pyjamas) different from that in the episode itself, though some blogs take place in the time line with other characters or situations interrupting Codex. Each season is divided into 12 episodes (with the exception of season 1, which is divided into 10 episodes).\n\nCyd Sherman struggles to limit her time online, where she games as her alter ego Codex, a member of the Knights of Good. After the guild realizes that Zaboo has been offline for 39 hours, he appears on Codex's doorstep. Zaboo misunderstood Codex's in-game chats as flirting, and became a stalker living in the same apartment.\n\nOn the in-game side, trouble also arises when Bladezz is banned from the game for using a macro (to spam expletives \"a few thousand times\") in the trade house. Codex uses this as an excuse to have the guild help her with her Zaboo problem. The guild (except Bladezz) reluctantly meets up in person—for the first time—at Cheesybeards, a local restaurant, only to find out that Vork had transferred all of their in-game valuables to Bladezz's account as part of a team building strategy. If they decided to kick out Bladezz, they would lose everything.\n\nThings get worse when Bladezz begins to slander the Knights of Good by showing inappropriate videos of the members' characters, and Codex is no closer to getting Zaboo to go home. Then, Zaboo's home comes to him in the form of his overbearing mother. Zaboo confesses that his mother controls every aspect of his life besides the Internet, which she is beginning to read about. He saw this as his only escape.\n\nCodex comes up with a plan to bring Bladezz down, using Zaboo's stalking skills. Zaboo finds out about Bladezz's modelling career and blackmails him into giving the gold and equipment back to the Guild. The Guild then fights off Zaboo's mom, and Bladezz redeems himself by landing the final blow. Codex soon realizes that she got Zaboo's mother's loot- Zaboo.\n\nZaboo's mother takes revenge for losing Zaboo by having Codex evicted. Codex and Zaboo move into a new apartment, where Codex meets a new love interest: Wade (Fernando Chien), a stunt man. Codex tries to get Zaboo to move out by telling him that he needs to level up before they can be together. She arranges for him to live with Vork, who will take in-game gold as rent, something Zaboo is really good at: farming. Codex focuses on trying to get Wade interested in her.\n\nThe Guild finds a valuable in-game orb which Clara and Tink fight over. Just as Vork lets it go up for bid, Clara's children unplug her computer from the Internet and, upon re-connecting, Clara finds out Tink wins it. Clara vows revenge on Vork for giving it to Tink and spends an entire weekend betraying Vork by corpse camping him on an alternate account as well as searching for her own orb.\n\nBladezz believes Tink is romantically interested in him and begins to max out his mother's credit cards to buy her stuff, when, in fact, Tink is using him to get what she wants. Vork is annoyed with Zaboo's lack of logic and his antics in trying to 'man-up' for Codex. Codex finds out that the stunt-man has a \"stupid tall hot girlfriend,\" Riley (Michele Boyd).\n\nThe Game announces that the online play will be shut down for maintenance for four hours, during which Vork plans a strategy lecture for Zaboo and Bladezz, while Codex plans a quiet party with Clara and Tink. Bladezz coerces Vork to abandon the lecture in favor of a poker game (offline), hoping to make up some of what he spent on Tink. Clara advertises Codex's party and it becomes a crowded kegger.\n\nAmong Clara's random invitees, Wade and Riley come to the party. After finding out that Riley is Wade's roommate and Wade is single, Tink and Clara try to hook Codex up with him. Zaboo, learning of this, persuades Vork and Bladezz to go to Codex's party to try to stop it. Vork discovers that Clara has been attacking him, and begins to question his quality of leadership. Bladezz confronts Tink about their relationship; upon learning that he has been used, Bladezz steals Tink's laptop and deletes her character. Meanwhile, Zaboo walks in on Wade and Codex kissing and challenges Wade to a fight. Wade is a much better fighter, but Zaboo's seriousness about Codex leads to Wade giving up his interest in her. Codex yells at Zaboo that she doesn't like him, and he leaves dejected. Then Codex sees a drunken Clara kissing with Wade, and decides to chase after Zaboo to apologize, but is hurt when she sees him making out with Riley.\n\nCodex was able to recover from the disastrous party by the announcement of the new expansion pack for the game, \"Spires of Dragonor\". The Knights of Good are first in line at GameStop until a rival guild, the Axis of Anarchy, cuts in front of them. After the Axis tricks a GameStop worker into sending the Knights to the back of line, Vork, still not over the events of the party, resigns as Guild Leader. Codex is elected as his successor, causing Tink to leave the Knights and join the Axis.\n\nWhile Vork goes on a self-discovery journey, Clara's husband George demands that she spend more time with the family after discovering her gaming has severely distanced her from him. As a result, Clara proposes that he take Tink's place after auditions for a sixth member fail. Riley, who becomes increasingly domineering to Zaboo, offers to join, but Codex chooses Clara's husband instead, adding \"Mr. Wiggly\" to the Guild. Meanwhile, Bladezz begins to be targeted by Tink and the Axis of Anarchy, who expose his modelling alias to his school and plant weapons in his locker; later, Bruiser (J. Teddy Garcia), a member of the Anarchists, seduces his mom. Codex issues a message on the game's public forum to stand up against the Axis for the behavior, and in retaliation the Axis puts a bounty on the Guild. Mr. Wiggly unknowingly gives away information about the Guild to other gamers in exchange for loot, which leads to his expulsion from the Guild. With this, he tells Clara to quit the game, and she does to save her marriage.\n\nTo end the Axis's harassment of Bladezz, Codex and Zaboo track down the Anarchist Valkyrie at his job, where is he playing the game on company time. After they take away some of his character's possessions and threaten to expose him, Valkyrie tells them where and when the next Axis of Anarchy meeting will take place. Vork returns after regaining his confidence to lead and, with Codex, reassembles the Guild to challenge the Axis at the Internet café where they planned to have a group raid. The battle begins, but both sides lose members quickly. Some of the Knights die in-game when their real-life problems manifest: Clara's husband shows up, angry that she is playing the game; Riley destroys Zaboo's computer for not meeting her demands. Clara tells her husband that they are going to have another child and he forgets about their argument and redeems himself in the eyes of the guild by helping Clara kill the Anarchist Kwan in game. Zaboo breaks up with Riley, who then proceeds to make out with Venom.\n\nFinally, only Codex is left to face off Tink and Axis leader Fawkes (Wil Wheaton). After Codex makes Bladezz apologize to Tink, Tink decides that the Axis members are even bigger jerks than she can stand and lets Codex kill her in-game. Codex, in a hallucinatory conversation with her game character, musters the courage to defeat Fawkes. The Knights welcome Tink back into the guild, and Bladezz makes tentative peace with the Axis member who seduced his mother. Fawkes invites Codex for drinks; she initially refuses but, in a twist ending, wakes up in bed with him the next morning.\n\nAn unexpected and unintentional one-night stand with Fawkes (Wil Wheaton) causes Codex to stress over what the guild thinks of her and persuades him to cover for her in a pretend relationship. But after spending more time together, Codex realizes he is a \"total tool-bag\" and reevaluates her criteria for relationships with men. Her computer breaks and she is forced to get a job at Cheesybeards to pay for repairs but has no idea how to fulfil the expectations of her boss, Ollie (Frank Ashmore).\n\nZaboo tries to be a good friend to Codex during her fake relationship with Fawkes instead of trying to win her love. He dives into this new pursuit with his usual smothering intensity. When the truth of the relationship is revealed he realizes that his feelings for Codex have changed and he wants to be her friend.\n\nAn earnings competition for a new guild hall sparks a real-life business for Tink and Clara that strengthens and strains their friendship.\n\nVork enlists Zaboo's mother, Avinashi (Viji Nathan), for her \"brilliant economic mind\" in his pursuit of his vision for the guild's hall and he sets up a stock market and loan company that is bankrupting players. However, her smothering tendencies enrage him to the point that he \"make[s] a giant gesture that's really inappropriate\" and proposes marriage in an attempt to repulse her. To his horror she accepts.\n\nCodex and Bladezz film an online Cheesybeards commercial but the result is so horrible that it spawns a series of prank calls to the establishment. Ollie is furious and fires Codex. The guild helps Codex get her job back by organizing a celebration at Cheesybeards that attracts a large population of gamers. Bladezz attempts to perform a magic trick involving fire, which ends up torching the restaurant (costing Codex and Bladezz their jobs).\n\nZaboo begs Codex to intercede in the upcoming nuptials between his mother and Vork. And when Zaboo reveals he has used the money from auctioning a romantic painting of Codex and Fawkes he had commissioned to buy her a new computer she is touched by the gesture and resolves to break up the wedding.\n\nAvinashi and Vork are about to speak their vows to each other, at a virtual wedding ceremony in the newly purchased prison-like Knights of Good guild hall, when all of the guild members object. Codex manages to convince Zaboo's mother that it is wrong to marry \"someone [she] can't stand in order to be close to someone who doesn't want to be near [her]\". Zaboo helps by suggesting that she visit every few weeks when she gets lonely, causing Codex to realize that he possesses all the qualities on her new litmus test, and consider a relationship with him.\n\nThe season wraps up with an official gamemaster crashing the ceremony to put an end to Vork's \"Trogothian Stock Market\" scheme. Codex convinces the GM, Kevinator (Simon Helberg), to change the design of the guild hall to the \"bitchin' fairy palace\" that Tink and Clara wanted. Kevinator is impressed to meet Bladezz, who has become an internet celebrity and invites the whole guild to a gaming convention.\n\nThe Knights of Good travel to MegaGameORama-Con, a three-day gaming convention. Bladezz believes that he is invited by Kevinator as a special guest, but his name is not on the invite list. With all nearby hotels booked, Rachel, a member of the convention staff, manages to secure a room for them. However, it is not offered for free, and Bladezz convinces the rest of the guild that he will clarify the situation to Kevinator. Meanwhile, Codex is more interested in getting close to Zaboo, but he becomes engrossed in attending the events and panels.\n\nOn the first day of the convention, Bladezz and Vork discover that Kevinator had been fired from The Game before the day of the convention and Bladezz was one of his joke invites. To compensate for hotel fees, both of them start up a photo booth for the Cheeseybeard's pirate. Tink attempts to sell the T-shirts she and Clara made but is forced to find a booth to avoid from being caught by the convention staff for selling without a permit. When she and Clara come upon a steampunk-themed booth, Clara is more interested in it than selling the shirts. Zaboo is denied entry to a panel because the seats are full, causing him to form a seat-saving network.\n\nCodex tries out the new demo at The Game's booth, but unknowingly insults the creator, Floyd Petrovski (Ted Michaels). She becomes even more preoccupied when Zaboo spurns her advances and is continuously stalked by a convention-goer in a furry costume. When she follows Floyd to apologize, she discovers that he plans to sell The Game to a mainstream market. Codex becomes concerned about the future of the game, which is the only thing in her life holding her friendships together.\n\nTink, who continuously changes costumes to hide her identity, reveals to Codex at a party that she is hiding from her adoptive family, who have attended the convention, fearing that they will discover her switching majors from pre-med to fashion design. Codex arranges a dinner with her family to reconcile against Tink's will. Meanwhile, Clara tries to join the steampunk group and is trained as their fourth member to help them win the costume contest, but the members of the group ultimately turn her away. Zaboo has become so preoccupied with his seat-saving network that he briefly goes power-hungry. He is stopped by Clara, who brings back his old personality, ending his involvement with the seat-saving network.\n\nBladezz and Vork's booth becomes successful, but Vork rejects all of the celebrities who want to spend time with Bladezz. His attention, however, is turned towards Madeline (Erin Gray), an actress who played his favorite character, Charity, on the show \"Time Rings\". The two are invited to a party that night, but Bladezz realizes that all the celebrities lead normal lives, finding them boring. Still, he rejects Rachel and her friends for the celebrities and openly humiliates them. Vork, on the other hand, ends up offending Madeline after he criticizes her decision to leave her show.\n\nThe next day, Bladezz has lost all support from the celebrities and his fans, so he is unable to continue the Cheeseybeard pirate's photo booth. Zaboo helps Clara build a steampunk-themed blimp to help her win the costume contest. Codex and Tink discover that Codex's stalker is Fawkes, who wants to join their guild after the Axis of Anarchy broke up, but Codex rejects him. The girls later eavesdrop on Floyd's conversation and discover he plans on revealing his decision at the costume contest that night. Both of them convince the rest of the Guild to help them save The Game from going \"freemium\". The Guild is able to stop the changes with much success: Clara wins the costume contest, Bladezz is able to win back his fans, and Vork reconciles with Madeline. As all of them leave the convention the next morning, Floyd has decided to give Codex a job.\n\nCodex begins her new job working for Floyd Petrovski at the headquarters for \"The Game\", only to discover that he's a thoughtless tyrant who immediately turns all the other employees against her. Meanwhile, Tink discovers that the men she manipulated for services and gifts have all slandered her on local websites, losing all of her connections. Bladezz gets kicked out of his house by Bruiser and spends time at Clara's, convincing her long-suffering husband that she is devoted to her children by uploading videos of her parenting to the Internet, though he is more interested in monetizing the videos. Vork, who is dating Madeline, becomes disillusioned when Zaboo uncovers photos of her protesting nude, while Zaboo suffers separation anxiety from the members of the Guild going offline, seeking refuge from a collage of his ideal \"sweetheart.\"\n\nCodex is pressured by her co-workers to convince Floyd to release the underwater expansion pack they have been planning for months but is forced to do menial chores in order to appease him. When the Guild visits her workplace, Tink steals Codex's key to the testing server and initiates a casual relationship with Donovan (Corey Craig), where they agree that he will do chores for her if she spends time with him. Unbeknownst to her, she begins to fall in love with him for real. Zaboo, who enters the server posing as an IT technician, becomes smitten with Sabina (Justine Ezarik), an NPC of The Game and the spitting image of his ideal girl.\n\nVork, who has gotten through with an argument with Madeline about his personal goals, confronts Floyd about his unanswered complaints about The Game. This gets his character permanently banned, and he retaliates by protesting and gaining support from other gamers. Meanwhile, Bladezz is forced to spend time with Wiggly while Clara continues making videos. When Clara becomes Internet-famous, other parents turn to her for advice, one of them being Bladezz's mother. Clara encourages her to keep dating Bruiser, causing Bladezz to convince Wiggly to quit his job.\n\nThe underwater expansion patch notes are leaked onto the Internet and wildly rouses the protest. Codex is unsuccessful in finding the culprit but convinces Floyd to release the expansion pack anyway. Donovan reveals to Tink that he was the one who caused the leak in order to push Floyd to release the expansion pack, and Tink tells him that Codex and Vork are in the same guild. He uses this information against Floyd to blame the leak on Codex and gets her fired. Vork's protest culminates in a riot, but his acts have renewed Madeline's faith in him and the two reconcile.\n\nAs her final act for Floyd, Codex quells the rioters by questioning their acts and informing that their poor attitudes contributed to the problems at the Game HQ. Floyd unexpectedly steps out and challenges the crowd to insult him to his face instead of typing online insults, but the entire crowd congratulate him on his work and cite their insecurities as part of their bad behaviors. Inspired, Floyd announces a troll-themed add-on for the Game. By the end of the day, Clara is successful in convincing Bruiser to break up with Bladezz's mother and secures a position at a vlogging network, Tink and Donovan begin a relationship, and Zaboo discovers his real-life Sabina. Codex, happy with getting her job back and realizing how much her friends are loyal to her, makes a final vlog and tearily shuts down her computer, bringing the season (and the series) to a close.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"The Guild\" had over 69 million upload views on YouTube as of September 2011. The series won several awards since its launch, including six Streamy Awards and four IAWTV Awards, and in February 2009, \"Rolling Stone\" named it one of \"The Net's Best Serial Shows\".\n\nIn 2014 \"The Guild\" was listed on New Media Rockstars Top 100 Channels, ranked at #37.\n\nJoss Whedon credits \"The Guild\" as one of the inspirations for \"Dr. Horrible's Sing-Along Blog\", which also starred Day.\n\nOver the course of its duration, \"The Guild\" has won and been nominated for several awards.\n\nOn March 24, 2010, the first issue of the comic book limited series based on the show was released from Dark Horse Comics. It acts as a prequel to the show, and it was written by Felicia Day and illustrated by Jim Rugg. The second issue was released on April 23, 2010, and the third and final issue was released on May 26, 2010. The collected volume was released on November 24, 2010.\n\nA second five-issue series was released in 2011. Each issue focuses on a single character (Vork, Zaboo, Clara, Tinkerballa, and Bladezz) and is illustrated by a different artist. The collected volume, \"The Guild Volume 2\", was released on June 27, 2012.\n\nAn additional single character issue, \"The Guild: Fawkes\", was issued on May 23, 2012 and takes place after season 4 of the web series.\n\n\"The Guild\" cast have appeared as their characters in three music videos to promote the series. In \"(Do You Wanna Date My) Avatar\", the cast appears as their game characters. The song and video were released shortly before the start of Season 3 and were used to promote the show. \"Game On\" is a Bollywood-themed video about Zaboo trying to convince Codex to play the game. This second video was used in a similar fashion and promoted Season 4. The third song and video titled \"I'm the One That's Cool\" is a pop rock song \"touting the rise of nerd culture and the geek shall inherit the earth credo\". It was released to promote the launch of Felicia Day's new YouTube channel Geek & Sundry. \"(Do You Wanna Date My) Avatar\" and \"I'm the One That's Cool\" are available on the \"Rock Band\" Network.\n\n\"The Guild\" was originally intended to be a pilot episode for a TV series, but Felicia Day was advised that it would be much more suited for a web series. The show changed its format and script to fit a web series. The first episode \"Wake-Up Call\" premiered on YouTube on July 27, 2007. After the first three episodes, the group ran out of money; but a link to Day's PayPal brought enough donations to fund \"Cheesybeards\" and \"Rather Be Raiding\". The first season ended on May 15, 2008, consisting of 10 episodes and two specials (including the Christmas special, \"Christmas Raid Carol\").\n\n\"The Guild\" season 1 DVD was released on Amazon.com on May 19, 2009. For Canadian audiences, it was bundled with season 2, released on September 29, 2009, also available on Amazon.com.\n\nFilming for season 2 began in August 2008. \"Link the Loot\" premiered on Xbox Live Marketplace, Microsoft Zune Marketplace, and MSN Video on November 25, 2008. Season 2 ended with \"Fight!\" on February 17, 2009, and featured \"Love During Wartime\" by the Main Drag, as well as visual effects by Doug Luberts.\n\nOn November 24, 2008, Microsoft announced an exclusive distribution deal with \"Guild\" creator Felicia Day. All twelve episodes of season 2 premiered on Xbox 360, Zune, and MSN, with a four-week delay for release on \"The Guild\"s official website. The Microsoft releases were free, but supported by Sprint advertisements and product placements.\nCreator Felicia Day retains the IP rights to the series, with Microsoft paying an \"unspecified\" license fee upfront. Sometime in late February 2009, when all episodes of season two had been released, Day and her team were free to sign a new nonexclusive distribution deal should they choose to do so.\n\n\"The Guild\" season 2 DVD was released on Amazon.com on May 19, 2009, containing commentary tracks, gag reels, audition footage, and a \"behind the scenes\" documentary. It was also released for the Canadian audience along with season 1 on Amazon.com.\n\nSeason 2 was nominated for eleven Streamy Awards and won three: Best Comedy Web Series, Best Ensemble Cast in a Web Series, and Best Female Actor in a Comedy Web Series (Felicia Day).\n\nOn August 17, 2009, a music video – \"(Do You Wanna Date My) Avatar\" by Felicia Day – was released on Xbox Live to promote season 3, which would premiere on August 25, 2009 on Xbox Live for members with Gold Accounts first. Later it was announced that it would be released for members with Silver Accounts, as well as Zune and MSN Video users, on September 1, 2009. The season premiered with \"Expansion Time\" on August 25, 2009 and ended on November 24, 2009 with \"Hero\". The season featured guest star Wil Wheaton as the leader of a rival guild out to destroy the Knights of Good.\n\nIn April 2010, \"The Guild's\" official website announced the show was renewed by Microsoft for a fourth season. On June 9, 2010, the official recap of season 3—an Auto-Tuned music video by The Gregory Brothers—was posted on Bing; the video included a message that season 4 would begin on July 13, 2010.\n\nOn July 27, 2010, a second music video, called \"Game On\", was posted to promote season 4. On September 14, 2010, another promotional video was posted of the Cheesybeard's full commercial. Michael Chaves, director of \"The Curse of La Llorona\", served as a visual effects artist for season 4.\n\nSeason 5 takes place at the gaming convention mentioned at the end of season 4. Shooting began on April 21, 2011. The first episode of Season 5 was released on Xbox Live and Zune on July 26, 2011, and was released on MSN on July 28.\n\nSeason 6 was mentioned at Comic-Con by Felicia Day. It was shot during the summer under new director Chris Preksta, creator of \"The Mercury Men\". It premiered on October 2, 2012, on YouTube channel Geek & Sundry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "800980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=800980", "title": "Time Squad", "text": "Time Squad\n\nTime Squad is an American children's animated television series created by Dave Wasson for Cartoon Network, and the 10th of the network's Cartoon Cartoons. It follows the adventures of Otto Osworth, Buck Tuddrussel, and the robot Larry 3000, a trio of hapless \"time cops\" living in the far distant future who travel back in time attempting to correct the course of history. During their adventures, they run into major historical figures such as Julius Caesar, Abraham Lincoln, Sigmund Freud, Leonardo da Vinci, the Founding Fathers, and Moctezuma, who have taken a drastically different course of life than history dictates. The mission of the Time Squad is to guide these figures onto the correct path and ensure the integrity of the future.\n\nThe series premiered during Cartoon Network's marathon block \"Cartoon Cartoon Summer\" on June 8, 2001, and ended after two seasons on November 26, 2003, airing 26 episodes in total. In the course of its run, the series received five Annie Award nominations. Creator Dave Wasson described the series as \"a C-student's guide to history\". It is also the final Cartoon Network original series to premiere during Betty Cohen's tenure, as she later resigned due to creative disagreements with Jamie Kellner, then-head of Turner Broadcasting System.\n\nThe show is set in the year 100,000,000 AD, on a satellite which orbits Earth. This future Earth is never visited directly, though it is referred in dialogue as a peaceful utopia where there are no longer any problems to solve. All nations of the world have merged into one, and according to Tuddrussel, there are \"no wars, no pollution, and bacon is good for your heart\".\n\nDespite this cheerful vision of the future, the space station on which the characters live and from which they travel to the past is remarkably dystopic. It features a shooting range, a terrarium and a prison for repeat offenders, but it is dank, outdated (for the time) and unclean. Mostly this seems to be down to officer Buck Tuddrussel (Rob Paulsen), a scruffy and immature perennial bachelor, who nevertheless happens to be the station's most senior officer.\n\nThe only other official member of Buck's unit is Larry 3000 (Mark Hamill), a translator robot and former diplomat who was rendered more or less obsolete when all of the world's nations merged. Buck's mindless machismo clashes with Larry's effete sensibilities, and the two bicker terribly. Added to this the fact that neither of them has any great knowledge of history, they made a rather poor team together.\n\nHowever, when they encounter Otto Osworth (Pamela Adlon), an 8-year-old boy who happens to be an orphan from the 21st century, he is quickly recruited and added to the team. Otto is shown to be the only one on the team with any enthusiasm or competence for the job. The problem is, neither of the other two are particularly willing to listen to his advice, and he must often resort to trickery to make sure the mission is completed.\n\nThe Time Squad organization is set up to ensure that history is maintained and the future protected. According to Larry 3000, \"time is like a rope\", and, as it is woven at one end, ages and gradually unravels and frays at the other. In the context of the show, this often means that historical figures have made different, sometimes anachronistic, choices in life (see free will), and as such will not be able to fulfill the role that history says they fulfilled (an example of this Henry Ford did not invent the automobile assembly line due to constant hostility of the dodo birds that never became extinct). According to creator Dave Wasson, \"We started by basically knowing what a guy did in history, then found the most outlandish way he could go wrong\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Note\": Despite were all directed by series creator Dave Wasson, Larry Leichliter co-directed with him in \"Keepin' It Real with Sitting Bull\", \"A Thrilla at Attila's\", \"Pasteur's Packs O' Punch\", \"Love at First Flight\", \"Child's Play\", \"Father Figure of Our Country\", and \"Floral Patton\".\n\n\n\"Time Squad\" has not received any official DVD releases. However, the episode \"Dishonest Abe\" is featured in the \"Powerpuff Girls\" VHS \"Meet the Beat-Alls\".\n\nCartoon Network and Subway partnered to release five \"Time Squad\"-themed toys in Subway Kids Paks. The promotion lasted from September 30 to November 17, 2002.\n\nThough the series has no official video games, the character Larry-3000 appears in the Cartoon Network game \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39438795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39438795", "title": "Tumba (Kongo)", "text": "Tumba (Kongo)\n\nThe Kongo place stone figures called tumba (a Ki-Kongo word, pl. bitumba) on the graves of powerful people. Bitumba were created in Zaire and Angola during the nineteenth century and the first part of the twentieth. The term tumba comes from the old Portuguese word for “tomb”— this genre may have been inspired by grave monuments for European merchants and missionaries in Kongo cemeteries.\n\nBituma were executed in soft stone. Their average height it close to 50 centimeters; the smallest bituma measure between 15 and 20 centimeters and the largest are approximately a meter in height.\n\nArtist Robert Verly gathered a large number of statues in the north of Angola near the Zaire border and, in the May 1955 issue of Zaire, he classified the objects by type and proposed an explanation for their use. In July 1978, the Institut des Musees Nationaux du Zaire at the Center for International Commerce of Zaire in Kinshasa mounted an exhibition of 72 bitumba called \"Sculptures Stones from Lower Zaire.\"\n\nBitumba sculptures are unique in their variety of styles. Robert Farris Thompson has identified about twenty workshops that explain stylistic individuality. The wide dispersal of the works, however, has made it impossible to localize their centers of production. \n\nBitumba are express a variety of themes. The most widely found - about twenty percent of statues belong to this type - is a figure who raises his hands in front of his face in a gesture often interpreted as praying. The second most prevalent theme is that of mother and child. The art of Lower Zaire, and especially the art of Mayombe, is known for privileging maternity subjects. The third theme is that of the \"thinker,\" who holds on hand on the hip and the other pressed to check in an attitude of meditation.\n"}
{"id": "14245656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14245656", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 263", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 263\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 263, adopted on January 24, 1969, after the General Assembly passed Resolution 2479 extolling the virtues of expanded working languages, the Council decided to include Russian and Spanish among the working languages of the Security Council.\n\nThe resolution was adopted without vote.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37649457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37649457", "title": "Welcome to Yorkshire", "text": "Welcome to Yorkshire\n\nWelcome to Yorkshire (WTY) is the official tourism agency for the traditional county of Yorkshire, the UK's largest county, promoting Yorkshire tourism both nationally and internationally. It was formerly known as the Yorkshire Tourist Board until 2009, but underwent a rebranding: a new Welcome to Yorkshire brand, a new website, the launching of various new marketing campaigns and a move to the present site in Leeds, West Yorkshire. The stated aim of the organisation is: 'to grow the county’s visitor economy'. The current Chief Executive is Sir Gary Verity.\n\nFollowing the 2009 rebranding, Welcome to Yorkshire has become involved in a range of new campaigns and initiatives. Aside from the more traditional forms of tourism marketing usually associated with tourist boards, Welcome to Yorkshire has been involved in cultural partnerships such as the Yorkshire entries to the Chelsea Flower Show, \"The Railway Children\" tour, the Hockney tour and the Yorkshire Sculpture Triangle. They are also an official partner of Yorkshire County Cricket Club, sponsoring the team's Twenty20 tour of South Africa in 2012.\n\nWelcome to Yorkshire ran the campaign to host the 2014 Grand Depart of the Tour de France in the county. On 14 December 2012 Yorkshire was confirmed as the starting place for the race.\n\n"}
{"id": "3791527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3791527", "title": "William Divale", "text": "William Divale\n\nWilliam Tulio Divale is a professor of anthropology at York College, City University of New York in Jamaica, New York, USA.\n\nDivale was a past chairman of the Social Sciences Department. He received his PhD degree from the University at Buffalo in 1974. He is the publisher of the \nWorld Cultures eJournal.\n\nHe has received two medals for one of his specialties, cross-cultural studies. He was also Past President of the Society for Cross-Cultural Research (2000) and is the current president again (2009).\n\nHe also co-authored the book (with James Joseph) \"I Lived Inside The Campus Revolution.\" (1970) Cowles Book Co, New York, and authored \"Matrilocal Residence In Pre-Literate Societies.\" (1984) Ann Arbor: UMI Research Press. He has also authored over 25 publications in scientific journals.\n\nHe has conducted fieldwork in La Gomera, Canary Islands (1973–76), and in the Republic of Moldova (Eastern Europe) (2005–Present).\n\nAdmitted government spy and informant. The known amount of this is disclosed in his book \"I Lived Inside the Campus Revolution\".\n\nMylonas, K., Furnham, A., Konstantinidis, E., Papazoglou, S., Divale, W., Leblebici, C., Gondim, S., Moniz, A., Grad, H., Alvaro, J.-L., Cretu, R.-Z., Filus, A., & Boski, P. \n2013. The Explanations for Unemployment Scale: An Eight-Country Study on Factor Equivalence. In Y. Kashima, E. Kashima, & R. Beatson (Eds.), Steering the cultural dynamics: Selected papers from the 2010 Congress of the International Association for Cross-Cultural Psychology. Melbourne, Australia: International Association for Cross-Cultural Psychology. Accessed via www.iaccp.org\n\nRebecca Rivera-Maestre and William Divale\n2011 Interdisciplinary Linkages: Joint Group Wiki Projects between Anthropology and Social Work Courses. DisCover: A Journal of Scholarly Teaching, Vol 3: 9-27 \n\nWilliam Divale, Vadim Aftene, Vadim Moldovan, Anatol Nacu \n2011. Parental Acceptance-Rejection and Influence of Father-Absence on the Chronically Mentally Ill\nin Moldova (Eastern Europe). In, Kourkoutas, Ε. & Erkman, F. (Eds.). Interpersonal Acceptance and\nRejection: Social, Emotional, and Educational Contexts. Boca Raton, FL: Brown Walker Press, pps\n163-172\n\nVadim Moldovan, Ph.D., William Divale, Ph.D., Constantin Turcan, M.D., Anatol Carpa, M.D., Anatol Nacu, PhD./M.D., Alexander Socrovisciuc, M.D., Vladimir Sterpu, M.D./Ph.D., Virginia Fauras, M.D., Vadim Aftene, M.D., Daniel Paladiciuc, M.D., Ludmila Petrova, M.D., Maria Victoria Cardona-Divale, M.A., E. Ed. \n(2008) Services for the Chronically Mentally Ill in Moldova: A Struggle to Survive. The International Journal of Mental Health, Vol. 36, No. 4. 46-56\n\nSonjia Kenya, Robert Fullilove, John Allegrante, William Divale, and Mitchell Brodsky \n2003 Effects of Immigration on Select Risk Behaviors of Black College Students. Journal of American College Health 52(3): 113-120\n\nDaria Khaltourina, Andrey Korotayev & William Divale \n2002 A Corrected Version of the Standard Cross-Cultural Sample Database. World Cultures 13(1): 62-98\n\nJulie Ann Kishna and William Divale\n2001 Internet Survey on the Effects of Immigration and Saturated Fat and Cholesterol Intake of Guyanese. World Cultures 12(2):153-178\n\nDivale, William\n2001 Codes on Highest Number Counted for the Standard Sample. World Cultures, 12(1):98-103\n\nDivale, William and Albert Seda\n2000 Modernization as Changes in Cultural Complexity: New Cross-Cultural Measurements. Journal of Cross-Cultural Research. Vol. 34(3).\n\n2000 Cross-Cultural Codes on Modernization. World Cultures 11(2): 152-170\n\nWm. Divale \n1999 Climatic Instability, Food Storage, and the Development of Numerical Counting: A Cross-Cultural Study. Journal of Cross-Cultural Research. 33(4),341-368\n\nWm. Divale and Albert Seda. \n1999 Codes on Gossip for Societies in the Standard Sample. World Cultures: Journal of Comparative and Cross-Cultural Research. Vol 10(1):7-22.\n\nWm. Divale, Noelle Abrams, Jennifer Barzola, Estelle Harris, and Fred-Michael Henry. \n1998 Sleeping Arrangements of Children and Adolescents: SCCS Sample Codes. World Cultures: Journal of Comparative and Cross-Cultural Research. World Cultures 9, 3-12.\n\nWm. Divale and Stanley R. Witkowski\n1996 Kin Groups, Residence, and Descent. In Encyclopedia of Cultural Anthropology. \n3:673-679. New York: Henry Holt and Company.\n\nWm. Divale\n1995 Cold Symptoms and Emotional Dissatisfaction Among Rural/Urban and Culturally Diverse High School Students. Journal of Cross-Cultural Research. 29(1):27-42.\n\n1984 Matrilocal Residence In Pre-Literate Societies. Ann Arbor: UMI Research Press.\n\nWm. Divale and Marvin Harris\n1978 The Male Supremacist Complex: Discovery of a Cultural Invention. American \nAnthropologist 80(3):668-671.\n\nWm. Divale, Marvin Harris, and Donald T. Williams\n1978 On the Mis-Use of Statistics: A Reply to Hirschfield et al. American Anthropologist 80(2):379-386.\n\nR. Rohner, R. Naroll, H. Barry, Wm. Divale et al. \n1978 Guidelines for Holocultural Research. Current Anthropology 19(1):128-129.\n\nWm. Divale and Marvin Harris\n1978 Reply to Lancaster and Lancaster. American Anthropologist 80(1):117-118.\n\nWm. Divale and Clifford Zipin\n1977 Hunting and the Development of Sign Language: A Cross-Cultural Test. Journal of Anthropological Research 33(2):185-201.\n\nWm. Divale\n1977 Living Floor Area and Marital Residence: A Replication. Behavior Science Research 12:109-115.\n\n1977 From Correlations to Causes: A New and Simple Method for Causal Analysis in Cross-Cultural Research. Annals Of The New York Academy Of Sciences vol.285:66-74. \nVolume titled: \"Issues in Cross-Cultural Research,\" Leonore Loeb Adler, ed.\n\n1977 A Cross-Cultural Test of Stratification versus Alliance Theory. Current Anthropology 18:451-453.\n\n1976 Female Status and Cultural Evolution: A Study in Ethnographer Bias. Behavior Science Research 11:169-211.\n\nWm. Divale and Marvin Harris\n1976 Population, Warfare, and the Male Supremacist Complex. American Anthropologist \n78:521-538.\n\nWm. Divale\n1976 Newspapers: Some Guidelines for Communicating Anthropology. Human Organization \n35:183-191.\n\nRaoul Naroll and Wm. Divale\n1976 Natural Selection in Cultural Evolution: Warfare versus Peaceful Diffusion. American Ethnologist 3:97-128.\n\nWm. Divale, F. Chamberis, and D. Gangloff\n1976 War, Peace and Marital Residence in Pre-Industrial Societies. Journal of Conflict Resolution 20:57-78.\n\nWm. Divale \n1976 Using Date of European Contact for Time-Lagged Variables in Cross-Cultural Surveys. Behavior Science Research 11:30-55. HRAF Cross-Cultural Research Award, 1975.\n\n1975 An Explanation for Matrilocal Residence. In, Being Female: Reproduction, Power,\nand Change. Dana Raphael, ed. The Hague: Mouton, pp. 99–108.\n\n1975 Temporal Focus and Random Error in Cross-Cultural Hypothesis Tests. \nBehavior Science Research 10:19-36\n\n1975 The Causes Of Matrilocal Residence: A Cross-Ethnohistorical Survey. Ann Arbor:\nUniversity Microfilms, No. 75-7742. Abstracted in Dissertation Abstracts International \n35(10):6286-6287.\n\n1974 Migration, External Warfare, and Matrilocal Residence. Behavior Science Research 9:75-133.\n\n1973 Warfare In Primitive Societies: A Bibliography. Santa Barbara and Oxford:\nABC-ClioPress. 2nd Revised Edition.\n\n1973 The Cognatic-Affinal Paradox in the Egyptian Myth of Osiris: A Critical Application of the Structural Method. New York Folklore Quarterly 29:287-303.\n\n1973 Science in the News. Saturday Review Of Literature (Sciences) 1(2):56.\n\n1972 Systemic Population Control in the Middle and Upper Paleolithic: Inferences Based on\nContemporary Hunter-Gatherers. World Archaeology 4:222-243.\n\n1972 Some Guidelines for Disseminating Anthropology Through Newspapers. Media\nAnthropologist 1(2):1-2.\n\n1971 Science-Writers and Science Reporting. California Anthropologist 1(2):47-60.\nCalifornia State University at Los Angeles.\n\n1971 Ibo Population Control: The Ecology of Warfare and Social Organization. California Anthropologist 1(1):10-24. California State University at Los Angeles.\n\n1971 Warfare In Primitive Societies: A Selected Bibliography. Los Angeles: Center for\nthe Study of Armament and Disarmament.\n\n1970 An Explanation for Primitive Warfare: Population Control and the Significance of Primitive Sex Ratios. New Scholar 2:172-193.\n\n"}
{"id": "28841159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28841159", "title": "Yadaya", "text": "Yadaya\n\nYadaya (, ; from Sanskrit ; variously spelt yadayar and yedaya) refers to magical rituals done to delay, neutralize or prevent misfortune, widely practiced in Burma (Myanmar). These rituals, which originate from Brahmanism, are guided and prescribed by soothsayers and astrologers, who use a combination of mathematical equations and astrology to formulate a \"prescription\" to avert misfortune. Modern Burmese leaders, including U Nu, Ne Win and Than Shwe and many government policy decisions are widely understood to have been influenced by yadaya rituals. Among Burmese Buddhists, yadaya is often linked to merit-making, as some prescriptive rituals involve seemingly \"Buddhist\" acts, although they are done to bypass karmic fate, which cannot be altered by ritual in Buddhist doctrine. Yadaya is closely associated to numerology, particularly the number nine, which is widely believed to be an auspicious number. Some scholars contend that yadaya originates to the Pagan period, first practiced by monks of the Ari sect, a form of Buddhism that predates the introduction of Theravada Buddhism in Burma.\n\nOne notable form of yadaya is the construction of pagodas, as seen in the construction of 60,000 pagodas by U Nu in 1961. The government's unexplained decision to change the road traffic in 1970 to right-hand traffic (even though the overwhelming majority of Burmese cars are made for left-hand traffic) is one such incident believed to be the result of yadaya, to avert the threat of a political attack from the right and insurgency.\n\nMore recently, the unusual clothing choices, namely the wearing of traditional female \"acheik\"-patterned longyi (sarongs) by Than Shwe and other military generals at recent public appearances, including Union Day celebrations in February 2011 and at the reception of the Lao Prime Minister Bouasone Bouphavanh in June 2011 have also been attributed to yadaya, as a way to divert power to neutralize Aung San Suu Kyi's power.\n\n"}
{"id": "22556229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22556229", "title": "Youth Art Month", "text": "Youth Art Month\n\nYouth Art Month is a month of promoting art and art education in the United States. It is observed in March, with thousands of American schools participating, often with the involvement of local art museums and civic organizations.\n\nYouth Art Month was founded by the Crayon, Water Color & Craft Institute, Inc., the predecessor of the Art & Creative Materials Institute, Inc. (ACMI), in cooperation with the National Art Education Association, in 1961 and was initially called Children's Art Month. Its goal was to \"emphasize the value of participating in art for all children.\" It was renamed Youth Art Month in 1969, to include secondary school students. In 1984, ACMI created the Council for Art Education, Inc. (CFAE) to oversee the annual observation of Youth Art Month. As of 2009, CFAE consisted of representatives of: ACMI, the National Art Education Association, \"The SHIP\" (a group of manufacturers of art materials), and the General Federation of Women's Clubs. The Craft & Hobby Association is also involved in Youth Art Month.\n\nThe main nationwide component of Youth Art Month is a competition called School Flags Across America . . . Flying High. As part of the competition, each state Youth Art Month Chairperson selects a theme that is representative of that state and of the spirit of Youth Art Month, and students design flags around that theme. The winning design from each state is then made into an actual flag, and the 50 student-designed flags are then displayed throughout Washington, D.C. following an opening ceremony held the first week of March to commemorate the start of Youth Art Month. The winning students and their families are invited to attend this opening ceremony in Washington, D.C. and the flags are displayed throughout the city for March, and then displayed at the Youth Art Month booth at the annual convention of the National Art Education Association.\n\nGovernors and mayors throughout the United States issue proclamations declaring March as Youth Art Month, and many United States Senators, Member of Congress, and state legislators take the opportunity to make public statements in favor of art education.\n\nObservation of Youth Art Month is carried out by volunteers around the country, including art educators, parents, librarians, leaders of youth organizations, businesspeople, and students.\n\nActivities depend on the efforts of local volunteers, and include:\n\n\n\n"}
