{"id": "10409408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10409408", "title": "2007 Zimbabwean political crisis", "text": "2007 Zimbabwean political crisis\n\nA political crisis began in Zimbabwe on 11 March 2007 when opposition leader Morgan Tsvangirai was beaten and tortured after being arrested, prompting widespread domestic and international criticism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57128072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57128072", "title": "2018 Arab League summit", "text": "2018 Arab League summit\n\nThe 2018 Arab League Summit (also known as the Dhahran Summit or Dammam Summit) was the Arab League's 29th summit held in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia on Sunday, 15 April 2018. The Summit was initially expected to be held in Riyadh. A preparatory meeting was held in Riyadh on Thursday, 12 April 2018 which was presided over by the Saudi Minister of Foreign Affairs Adel al-Jubeir. Foreign Ministers of the 22 countries attended the meeting.\n\n\n\nThe summit was announced to be held at the King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture which was constructed by Saudi Aramco and was opened in 2016.\nAs a security measure a number of roads were closed for traffic in the Dammam-Dhahran-Khobar region. It was also declared that all educational institutions would remain closed on Sunday.\n\nDespite the blockade imposed on Qatar by Saudi Arabia and a number of other countries, an official invitation was sent to Qatar to attend the Summit. The Foreign Ministry of Qatar issued a statement that Qatar had accepted the invitation and would be attending the Summit. The Saudi Foreign Minister al-Jubeir announced that the Qatar diplomatic crisis would not be discussed at the Summit.\n"}
{"id": "1394152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1394152", "title": "Action on Hearing Loss", "text": "Action on Hearing Loss\n\nAction on Hearing Loss, known until 2011 by its official title, the Royal National Institute for Deaf People (RNID), is a charitable organization working on behalf of the UK's 9 million people who are deaf or have hearing loss. The head office is in Islington, London. Its President until April 2012 was Lord Ashley of Stoke. The Chief Executive is Paul Breckell. Its Patron is the Duke of York.\n\nThe Royal National Institute for Deaf People was founded as the National Bureau for Promoting the General Welfare of the Deaf in 1911 by Leo Bonn, a deaf merchant banker, at his home 22 Upper Brook Street, Mayfair, on 9 June 1911. The house is marked by a memorial plaque unveiled by The Duke of Edinburgh, Patron to the RNID, on 9 June 1998.\n\nThe Bureau was reorganised as the National Institute for the Deaf in 1924. Alongside its role in influencing public policy in favour of people who are hard of hearing in the UK, it also developed a role as a provider of care to deaf and hard of hearing people with additional needs during the late 1920s and early 1930s.\n\nDuring the 1940s, with the introduction of the National Health Service (NHS) to the UK, it successfully campaigned for the provision of free hearing aids through the new welfare state system. The 1950s and 1960s saw its increasing influence marked by Royal recognition: in 1958 the Duke of Edinburgh became the Patron of the Institute; and in 1961 H.M. the Queen approved the addition of the \"Royal\" prefix, creating the Royal National Institute for the Deaf (RNID).\n\nThe Institute expanded into medical and technological research during the 1960s and 1970s, being a key player in the development of NHS provided behind-the-ear hearing aids. During the 1980s it developed the Telephone Exchange for the Deaf, a pioneering relay service allowing telephone users and deaf \"textphone\" users to communicate with each other using a third-party operator to relay voice and text communication. This became the service known as Typetalk in 1991, funded by BT but operated on their behalf by RNID until 7 December 2009 when the RNID stepped down from the service. It is now solely owned, run and managed by BT alone. In March 2009 the name of the Typetalk service was changed to Text Relay.\n\nIn 1992 the Institute changed its name to the Royal National Institute for Deaf People but kept the initials RNID.\n\nJune 2011 saw Centenary Celebrations to celebrate 100 years of the RNID and a new change of name - Action on Hearing Loss.\n'Action on Hearing Loss' was chosen because it better describes the breadth of help and support they provide for people with all types of hearing loss – from people who are profoundly deaf, to people who are losing their hearing. \nThey trade under the new name 'Action on Hearing Loss', but like a lot of other charities who have changed their names, they will be keeping the legal name, Royal National Institute for Deaf People.\n\nAction on Hearing Loss' activities include:\n\n\nAction on Hearing Loss has achieved a high profile for its work in lobbying and working with the UK government on modernisation of the UK's audiology services. This has resulted in the introduction of superior digital hearing aids free of charge via the NHS.\n\nAction on Hearing Loss has also emerged as a major player in technology research and development, in particular through its work in the area of product development. The Action on Hearing Loss Product Development team won an Innovation Award for their work on a new genre of telephone - the ScreenPhone.\n\nAction on Hearing Loss have developed an online free, confidential online hearing check, and can identify potential hearing problems. The five-minute check assesses your ability to hear someone speaking when there is background noise. It can indicate whether your hearing is within the normal range or if it is perhaps below normal. The hearing check does not give a medical diagnosis, but Action on Hearing Loss hopes it will prompt people to take action and visit their GP or an audiologist for a fuller assessment. On average, it can take people living in the UK up to 15 years to deal with a hearing loss.\n\n"}
{"id": "26416746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26416746", "title": "Afro-Asian Rural Development Organization", "text": "Afro-Asian Rural Development Organization\n\nAfrican-Asian Rural Development Organization (AARDO) formed in 1962, is an autonomous inter-governmental organization comprising 33, 17 from Africa, 15 from Asia as full members and one associate member from Asia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21264110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21264110", "title": "Agrarian Party (Chile)", "text": "Agrarian Party (Chile)\n\nThe Agrarian Party was a political party in Chile, formed in 1931 and dissolved in 1945 to form the Agrarian Labor Party. \n"}
{"id": "2373718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2373718", "title": "Ali Al-Naimi", "text": "Ali Al-Naimi\n\nAli bin Ibrahim Al-Naimi () (born 2 August 1935) was the Saudi Arabian Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources from 1995 to 2016.\n\nBorn to Ibrahim, a pearl diver of the Al-Naimi tribe, and Fatima, a Bedouin of the Ajman, his parents became divorced during the pregnancy. As a consequence, Naimi was born into and lived the first eight years of his nomadic life with his mother's and stepfather's tribe. From the age of four, he tended the family's flock of lambs. His mother divorced his stepfather when Al-Naimi was eight, and Al-Naimi left the Ajmani tribe to live with his father in Al-Hasa.\n\nAli Al-Naimi's older brother Abdullah, was hired by Aramco in 1944, and attended the Jebel School run by the company. Abdullah took Ali along, where they learned English, Arabic and basic arithmetic in the mornings, then worked as office boys in the afternoon. Finally, on 6 Dec. 1947, Ali was hired as a junior clerk, but still attended school in the mornings.\n\nNaimi was born in Ar-Rakah in the Eastern Province. He joined Saudi Aramco in 1947 as a twelve-year-old office boy. Under the training programs of Aramco, he studied at International College, Beirut and the American University of Beirut, before going to Lehigh University in the United States. He obtained a Bachelor of Science degree in geology in 1962. He then earned a Master of Science degree in hydrology and economic geology at Stanford University.\n\nAli attended advanced management courses at Columbia in 1974 and Harvard in 1979.\n\nAfter graduation, Naimi joined Aramco's exploration and production department as a geologist in 1964. He presented his first research paper, The Groundwater of Northeastern Saudi Arabia, in 1965. In 1967, he spent a year in the public relations department, before being assigned as the senior supervising operator for the Abqaiq Field in 1968. There he used an innovative gas injection method to revive the Ain Dar, No. 17, well. On 1 April 1969, Ali was made superintendent, assistant manager in 1972, and then manager in 1973. \n\nHe was promoted to manager of Northern Area producing in 1974, which had responsibility for 11 of Aramco's 15 oil fields. On 1 May 1975, the Aramco board promoted Ali to be the vice president for producing and water injection. He was one of the leaders that initiated seawater injection as a replacement for well water. He was named president of Aramco Overseas Company before becoming a senior vice president in July 1978. Al Naimi was elected a member of board of directors in 1980 and was promoted to the newly created position of executive vice-president of oil and gas affairs in 1981. He was named president of Saudi Aramco in Nov. 1983, being the first Saudi to hold that position. Then in 1988, Al-Naimi assumed responsibilities as CEO.\n\nHe became the Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources on 2 August 1995 (his 60th birthday), replacing Hisham Nazer. Al-Naimi became the first oil executive to hold the office. He was succeeded by Abdullah S. Jum'ah as CEO of Aramco.\n\nAlso in 1995, Naimi received an Honorary Doctorate from Heriot-Watt University\n\nIn December 2010, the Saudi Supreme Petroleum Council, chaired by King Abdullah, asked Naimi to nominate candidates to succeed him as oil minister.\n\nIn November 2014, still serving as Saudi oil minister and therefore the de facto leader of OPEC, Naimi became the primary advocate for the export organization's controversial new strategy. He argued that the oil market should be left to rebalance itself at lower price levels, strategically rebuilding OPEC's long-term market share by ending the profitability of high-cost US shale oil production. Naimi completed his service as oil minister in May 2016, as deputy crown prince Mohammed bin Salman took on a stronger role in Saudi oil policy.\n\nNaimi is chairman of the board of the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST).\n\nAli received an honorary degree from Seoul National University and there is an A. I. Naimi Road at S-Oil's Onsan refining complex.\n\nNaimi was named one of the most influential people in the world by \"TIME magazine\" in 2008. In 2011, he was included in the inaugural 50 Most Influential ranking by \"Bloomberg Markets\" magazine. His autobiography was published in November 2016.\n\nAl-Naimi's shares the secret of his success in his autobiography:\n\n\"Hard work, good fortune, and making the boss look good.\"\nKing Salman named Al-Naimi adviser to the Royal Court.\n"}
{"id": "5727912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5727912", "title": "American System (economic plan)", "text": "American System (economic plan)\n\nThe American System was an economic plan that played an important role in American policy during the first half of the 19th century. Rooted in the \"American School\" ideas of Alexander Hamilton, the plan \"consisted of three mutually reinforcing parts: a tariff to protect and promote American industry; a national bank to foster commerce; and federal subsidies for roads, canals, and other 'internal improvements' to develop profitable markets for agriculture\". Congressman Henry Clay was the plan's foremost proponent and the first to refer to it as the \"American System\".\n\nA plan to strengthen and unify the nation, the American System, was advanced by the Whig Party and a number of leading politicians including Henry Clay, John C. Calhoun and John Quincy Adams. The System included such policies as:\n\n\nClay protested that the West, which opposed the tariff, should support it since urban factory workers would be consumers of western foods. In Clay's view, the South (which also opposed high tariffs) should support them because of the ready market for cotton in northern mills. This last argument was the weak link. The South never strongly supported the American System and had access to plenty of markets for its cotton exports.\n\nPortions of the American System were enacted by the United States Congress. The Second Bank of the United States was rechartered in 1816 for 20 years. High tariffs were first suggested by Alexander Hamilton in his 1791 Report on Manufactures but were not approved by Congress until the Tariff of 1816. Tariffs were subsequently raised until they peaked in 1828 after the so-called Tariff of Abominations. After the Nullification Crisis in 1833, tariffs remained the same rate until the Civil War. However, the national system of internal improvements was never adequately funded; the failure to do so was due in part to sectional jealousies and constitutional squabbles about such expenditures.\n\nThe American System did not enjoy overall success, however; in 1830, President Jackson rejected a bill which would allow the federal government to purchase stock in the Maysville, Washington, Paris, and Lexington Turnpike Road Company, which had been organized to construct a road linking Lexington and the Ohio River, the entirety of which would be in the state of Kentucky. Jackson's Maysville Road veto was due to both his personal conflict with Clay and his ideological objections.\n\nThe establishment of a protective tariff, a 20%–25% tax on imported goods, would protect a nation's business from foreign competition. Congress passed a tariff in 1816 which made European goods more expensive and encouraged consumers to buy relatively cheap American-made goods.\n\nThe establishment of a national bank would promote a single currency, making trade easier, and issue what was called \"sovereign credit\", i.e., credit issued by the national government, rather than borrowed from the private banking system. In 1816, Congress created the Second Bank of the United States.\n\nThe improvement of the country's infrastructure, especially transportation systems, made trade easier and faster for everyone. Poor roads made transportation slow and costly.\n\nThis program became the leading tenet of the Whig Party of Henry Clay and Daniel Webster. It was opposed by the Democratic Party of Andrew Jackson, Martin Van Buren, James K. Polk, Franklin Pierce, and James Buchanan prior to the Civil War, often on the grounds that the points of it were unconstitutional.\n\nAmong the most important internal improvements created under the American System was the Cumberland Road.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1119737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1119737", "title": "Annexation movements of Canada", "text": "Annexation movements of Canada\n\nFrom the independence of the United States until today, various movements within Canada have campaigned in favour of U.S. annexation of parts or all of Canada. Historical studies have focused on numerous small-scale movements which are helpful in comparisons of Canadian and American politics.\n\nIn the early years of the United States, many American political figures were in favour of invading and annexing Canada, and even pre-approved Canada's admission to the U.S. in the Articles of Confederation in 1777. The defeat of American attempts to achieve this goal, both in the American Revolution and the War of 1812, gradually led to the abandonment in the U.S. of any serious push toward annexation. As historian Joseph Levitt notes:\n\nSurveys have suggested that a minority of Canadians would potentially support annexation, ranging from as many as 20 percent in a survey by Léger Marketing in 2001 to as few as seven percent in another survey by the same company in 2004.\n\nNo elected member of any federal or provincial assembly in Canada, nor any mainstream politician in the United States, openly advocates annexation. Two minor provincial political parties in Canada promoted the concept in the 1980s, but neither attracted widespread support or attention.\n\nHistorical annexationist movements inside Canada were usually inspired by dissatisfaction with Britain's colonial government of Canada. Groups of Irish immigrants took the route of armed struggle, attempting to annex the peninsula between the Detroit and Niagara Rivers to the U.S. by force in the minor and short-lived Patriot War in 1837-1838.\n\nAlthough the Rebellions of 1837 were motivated in part by this type of dissatisfaction, Canadian resentment of British rule never reached the degree that led to the American Revolution in 1775. Notably, Canada's population growth in the late 18th and early 19th centuries was spurred largely by United Empire Loyalists, who left the American colonies during the Revolution because of their loyalty to Great Britain. In the period from 1790 to 1837, imperial officials repeatedly denounced American-style republicanism and tried to suppress it. The Rebellions themselves were not fought with the goal of annexation, however, but were launched in pursuit of political independence from Britain and liberal social reforms.\n\nBetween 1848 and 1854, a significant and articulate minority of conservatives in Upper Canada advocated constitutional changes modelled on the American federal-state system and the US Constitution. They critiqued Canada's imitation of British parliamentary government as both too democratic and too tyrannical. It destroyed the independence of the appointed governor and Legislative Council and further concentrated power in the Cabinet. This critique led many conservatives to argue that the American model of checks and balances offered Canada a more balanced and conservative form of democracy than did British parliamentary government. These \"republican conservatives\" debated a series of constitutional changes, including annexation to the United States, an elected governor, an elected Legislative Council, a federal union of British North America, and imperial federation, within this framework. These conservatives had accepted \"government by discussion\" as the appropriate basis for political order.\n\nAround 1850 there was a serious annexationist movement on the border region of Quebec's Eastern Townships, where the American-descended majority felt that union with the United States would end their economic isolation and stagnation as well as remove them from the growing threat of French Canadian political domination. Leading proponents of this genuinely bipartisan movement were careful not to appear disloyal to Britain, however, and they actively discouraged popular protest at the local level. Fearful of American-style democracy, the local elite also expressed revulsion toward American slavery and militaristic expansionism. Consequently, the movement died as quickly in the Eastern Townships as it did in Montreal after Britain expressed its official disapproval and trade with the United States began to increase.\n\nIn Montreal at midcentury, with little immigration and complaints that the repeal of the Corn Laws had cut the region off from its British trade links, a small but organized group supported integrating the colonies into the United States. The leading organization advocating merger was the Annexation Association, founded in 1849 by an alliance of French Canadian nationalists and Anglophone businessmen in Montreal who had a common interest in the republic. Many of its members, including Louis-Joseph Papineau, were participants in the 1837-38 rebellions.\n\nThe Montreal Annexation Manifesto was published in 1849. It was hoped a merger with the United States would give Canada markets for its goods, ensure national security, and provide the finances to develop the west. A half measure was the in 1854 Canadian-American Reciprocity Treaty that linked the two areas economically.\n\nHowever, the movement died out in 1854. Annexation was never a very popular choice. Many Canadians were loyal to the Crown and Great Britain, especially the descendants of the United Empire Loyalists. French Canadians worried about being an even smaller minority in a larger union, and were concerned about American anti-Catholicism. The American Civil War, further, convinced many Canadians that the American experiment was a failure.\n\nUnited States Secretary of State William Seward predicted in 1860 that western British North America, from Manitoba to British Columbia, would with Russian Alaska join the United States. Many in Britain, such as Goldwin Smith and the \"Times of London\", were pessimistic about the future of British North America and agreed with Seward; the \"Times\" said that Britain would only object if the United States attempted to take the territory by force. In the late 1860s, residents of British Columbia, which was not yet a Canadian province, responded to the United States' purchase of Alaska with fear of being surrounded by American territory. Some residents wanted the colony the next American purchase. Local opinion was divided, as the three Vancouver Island newspapers supported annexation to the United States, while the three mainland newspapers rejected the idea. Even opponents of the annexation scheme admitted that Great Britain had neglected the region and that grievances were justified. Nonetheless, annexation sentiment disappeared within a few months and prominent leaders moved toward confederation with Canada.\n\nPetitions circulated in favour of American annexation. The first, in 1867, was addressed to Queen Victoria, demanding that the British government assume the colony's debts and establish a steamer link, or allow the colony to join the U.S. In 1869, a second petition was addressed to President Ulysses S. Grant, asking him to negotiate American annexation of the territory from Britain. It was delivered to Grant by Vincent Colyer, Indian Commissioner for Alaska, on December 29, 1869. Both petitions were signed by only a small fraction of the colony's population, and British Columbia was ultimately admitted as a Canadian province in 1871.\n\nMost Canadians were strongly opposed to the prospect of American annexation. Reports of the Annexation Bill of 1866 — a bill that, contrary to myth, never came to a vote — might have been one of the many factors behind Canadian Confederation in 1867. Much more serious were the Fenian raids made by Irish Americans across the border in 1866, which spurred a wave of patriotic feeling that helped the cause of Confederation.\n\nNonetheless, a substantial annexation movement existed in Nova Scotia, and to a lesser degree in New Brunswick, Quebec, and Ontario, during the 1860s. Nova Scotia anti-confederationists led by Joseph Howe felt that pro-confederation premier Charles Tupper had caused the province to agree to join Canada without popular support. Howe in London unsuccessfully attempted to persuade the government to free Nova Scotia from the pending British North America Act by threatening American annexation. A significant economic downturn occurred after the end after 1866 of the Reciprocity Treaty of 1854; the colony was heavily dependent on selling fish to Americans, causing many to believe that free trade with the United States was necessary for prosperity. Anti-confederationists won all but two seats in the 1867 provincial election; as in British Columbia they did not necessarily support annexation. They again sent Howe to London to free Nova Scotia but in 1868 the British government again refused, believing that New Brunswick would likely follow Nova Scotia out of the dominion and cause the new nation to collapse.\n\nAngry Nova Scotians began talking seriously of annexation. An alarmed Howe—who wished Nova Scotia to be free of Canada but still with Britain—warned his supporters against disloyalty, dividing anti-confederationists. The provincial government, dominated by extremists who now also opposed Howe, decided that if another appeal to London failed it would seize federal offices and unilaterally declare annexation, believing that Britain would not use force to stop Nova Scotia. Believing he had no choice, Howe left the anti-confederationists. Although he narrowly won reelection to his federal parliamentary seat in March 1869 as a confederationist, support for secession and annexation grew that year; however, by 1871 the movement had mostly disappeared. The federal government promised changes to taxes and tariffs, the economy revived, and the United States agreed to free trade for Canadian fish.\n\nCanadian author Prosper Bender wrote in the \"North American Review\" in 1883 that many Canadians believed that annexation by the United States would occur \"within the present generation, if not sooner\". He believed that Irish Catholics—about one quarter of Canada's population—would prefer annexation because of the British rule of Ireland. They would be joined by the majority of those under 40, who viewed the United States as a prosperous, fast-growing neighbor providing many opportunities. (The author attributed the absence of an active annexation movement in part to many who would favor such an effort taking the \"easiest and quietest method of securing the benefits of annexation, by themselves silently migrating to the Republic\", as more than a million already had.)\n\nBender believed that Prime Minister John A. Macdonald's promise of a transcontinental railway linking eastern Canada to British Columbia to be overambitious and too expensive, and unfavourably compared the Canadian government's growing debt to the United States' rapid reduction of its Civil War debt. He stated that Canadian businesses would benefit from duty-free access to the American market, while \"wondrous American enterprise, supported by illimitable capital\" would rapidly prosper Canada, especially its vast undeveloped interior. Bender concluded with pessimism about the likelihood of success of a nation divided in two parts by 1,200 miles of \"forbidding, silent wilderness stretching from the head-waters of the Ottawa to Thunder Bay, and thence to Manitoba\".\n\nIn 1891, Goldwin Smith posited in his book \"Canada and the Canadian Question\" that Canada's eventual annexation by the United States was inevitable, and should be welcomed if Canadians genuinely believed in the ideal of democracy. His view did not receive widespread support.\n\nIn January 1893, concerned about Canada's possible annexation, a goal then being pursued by the Continental Union Association, a group of Ontario and Quebec Liberals, Prime Minister Sir John Thompson delivered a speech on tolerance, Canadian nationalism and continued loyalty to Britain. Thompson eventually learned that the desire to make Canada part of the U.S. was confined to a small minority amongst the Liberals.\n\nIn 1901 W. T. Stead, a newspaper editor in London, England, discussed in \"The Americanization of the World\" possible annexations of Canada and Newfoundland. He believed that because of its size and strength Canada would likely be the last of Britain's possessions in the Americas to join the United States. Stead cited several reasons for why he believed annexation seemed \"inevitable\", however, including rapidly growing economic ties and migration between the two countries, the French Shore, and disputes over the Alaska boundary and fishing rights in the Atlantic.\n\nAfter the discovery of gold in the Yukon, many Canadians propose to annex parts of Alaska currently controlled by the United States, by calling for a revision in the original map of the boundary line between Russia and the United States. The US offered to lease the territory but not to give it back. London and Washington agreed on arbitration, with one member of the panel from Canada. In 1903 the Chief Justice of Britain sided with the Americans to resolve the map dispute in favor of the United States. Many Canadians felt a sense of betrayal on the part of the British government, whose own national interest required close ties to the United States, regardless of the interests of Canada.\n\nWhile the Dominion of Newfoundland was still separate from Canada, during World War II, a party known as the Economic Union Party sought closer ties with the United States. However, Canada objected to the possibility, and the British government, which controlled Newfoundland as a colony, would not allow it to consider annexation with the United States in any referendum. Instead, the EUP sought an independent \"responsible government\" that would then explore American annexation. A referendum showed a plurality in support of independence, but not a majority; a runoff referendum resulted in Newfoundland instead confederating with Canada to become the tenth province.\n\nTwo modern provincial political parties have proposed that their province secede from Canada to join the United States. Neither attracted significant support.\n\nThe Unionest Party was a provincial political party in Saskatchewan in 1980 that promoted the union of the western provinces with the United States. It was the most politically successful annexationist group, but its success was both short-lived and extremely limited in scope. The party briefly had two members in the Legislative Assembly of Saskatchewan, both of whom crossed the floor from another party, but dissolved within a few weeks after failing to qualify for official party status.\n\nThe original Parti 51 was a short-lived political party in Quebec in the 1980s that advocated Quebec's admission to the United States as the 51st state. The party won just 3,846 votes, or 0.11 per cent of the popular vote in the province, in the 1989 election — fewer votes than the Marxist-Leninists or the satirical Lemon Party — and was dissolved the following year. In 2016 Hans Mercier, a pro-American lawyer from Saint-Georges, Quebec, revived the party for second time. Mercier told \"La Presse\" that the times have changed since the party's previous era, as Quebec sovereigntism has waned in popularity. Mercier argued that Americans would be welcoming of a new Quebec state, and pointed to a survey taken during the administration of George W. Bush that suggested nearly 34 per cent of Quebecers would support joining the United States.\n\nIn modern Canadian political discourse, the idea of Canada becoming the \"51st state\" of the United States is much more often used as a scare tactic \"against\" political courses of action that may be seen as too \"Americanizing\". The use of this type of rhetoric may occur even if the proponents of such a course of action have \"not\" endorsed or proposed annexation.\n\nIn the 1911 federal election, the Conservative response to the proposed reciprocity treaty negotiated by the Liberals was to denounce it as equivalent to an American economic takeover, with annexation likely to follow. The parties swapped position in the later 1988 federal election, when the Liberals used the same type of rhetoric to denounce the Progressive Conservatives' proposed Canada – United States Free Trade Agreement, although the Progressive Conservatives won that election and the agreement was implemented.\n\nAnnexation fears can be found throughout \"Canadian History for Dummies\", in which humourist Will Ferguson stated that for \"John L. O'Sullivan, it was the \"manifest destiny\" of the United States to annex and possess all of North America\". In fact, O'Sullivan's use of the term never extended beyond potential American annexation of Texas and the Oregon Territory; he explicitly wrote that he did \"not\" believe that the United States had a destiny to annex Canada.\n\nPolitical satirists, including the Rhinoceros Party of Canada, have occasionally proposed reverse annexation, whereby all or part the United States would be annexed into an expanded Canadian federation. Following the 2004 American election, some Americans distributed the satirical Jesusland map on the Internet, depicting a similar proposal under which the \"blue states\" were part of a new political entity called \"The United States of Canada\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2135841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2135841", "title": "Benefit fraud in the United Kingdom", "text": "Benefit fraud in the United Kingdom\n\nBenefit fraud is a form of welfare fraud as found within the system of government benefits paid to individuals by the welfare state in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) define benefit fraud as when someone obtains state benefit they are not entitled to or deliberately fails to report a change in their personal circumstances. The DWP claim that fraudulent benefit claims amounted to around £900 million in 2008–09.\n\nThe most common form of benefit fraud is when a person receives benefits, but continues or begins employment. Another common form of fraud is when the receivers of benefits claim that they live alone, but they are financially supported by a partner or spouse.\n\nIn 2002, the DWP launched a 'Targeting Benefit Thieves' advertising campaign to spread their message that benefit fraud carried a criminal sanction. The most recent campaign makes claims about the likelihood of getting caught and the consequences of committing benefit fraud using ‘And they thought they’d never be caught’ as the leading slogan.\n\nIn recent years the term benefit fraud has been used by the DWP to encompass a wider range of behaviours, beyond simultaneously claiming unemployment benefit whilst working in the informal labour market. Their 2007 'No ifs, No buts' campaign emphasised other activities that could lead to prosecution. This includes failing to inform the state that your partner is now living with you, or that you have moved house, or that a relative has died, leaving you some money.\n\nSince the introduction of the Welfare Reform Act 2007, councils can now independently investigate a number of Social Security benefits.\n\nThe \"State of the Nation\" report published in 2010 by the Government of David Cameron estimated the total benefit fraud in the United Kingdom in 2009/10 to be approximately £1 billion. Figures from the Department for Work and Pensions show that benefit fraud is thought to have cost taxpayers £1.2 billion during 2012–13, up 9 per cent on the year before. A poll conducted by the Trades Union Congress in 2012 found that perceptions among the British public were that benefit fraud was high – on average people thought that 27% of the British welfare budget is claimed fraudulently; however, official UK Government figures have stated that the proportion of fraud stands at 0.7% of the total welfare budget in 2011/12.\n\nThe political scientist Adam Taylor claimed that the targeting of benefit fraud was disproportionate and was evidence of \"government using strong-arm tactics on the weakest members of British society\": the disabled and the poor. Taylor argued that the amount of money lost to false benefit claims was small compared to the huge amount lost to tax fraud which he estimated as costing the UK economy £150bn (this compares to the HMRC estimate of £4.1bn), yet he believed that comparatively little and in most cases nothing at all was done to pursue corporate tax evaders who defraud the people of the UK. Taylor argued that the crucial difference between these two practices is that \"the former is committed by the weakest and most vulnerable of society, while the far more damaging crime is being committed by the richest (and the most corrupt traitors) in the UK.\"\n\nA benefit fraudster is extremely unlikely to be investigated unless some third party reports them to, and provides evidence to, the police or the Job Centre (i.e. they slip up and admit it, or if they act in a particularly suspicious manner during a routine encounter with Job Centre staff, perhaps taking work telephone calls while at a signing-on appointment). That is to say that the two key reasons for investigating someone are:\n\nWhen investigating cases, Fraud Officers will collect facts and a decision will be made on whether or not to take further action. They may gather information about the claimant and their family members, then compare it with information already given on claim forms or in interviews.\n\nOfficers can contact private and public organisations that hold information on a suspected benefit thief including banks, building societies, utility providers. If evidence is found that benefit fraud has been committed, any of the following may happen:\n\n\nSome UK benefits can not be claimed when people go abroad. Between April 2008 and March 2009 it is estimated that £55 million was lost as a result of benefit fraud overpayments to British claimants who did not tell the authorities they were living or travelling abroad.\n\nWhen someone is caught for benefit fraud there are three key 'sanctions' that DWP or the Council can apply. These are formal cautions, administrative penalties and prosecution. By section 121 of the Welfare Reform Act 2012 from 8 May 2012 cautions will no longer be offered by DWP.\n\nThe main criterion for the offering of a caution is that the person has to have admitted that they have committed an offence. Other than this criterion, there is no statutory framework regulating which sanction is used in disposal of a case. This is a matter of policy for the relevant authority. The Department for Work and Pensions has a national policy; each Local Authority will have its own Policy which will set different criteria and financial guidelines.\n\nThe Administrative Penalty is effectively a fine and is set at 30% or 50% of the total amount overpaid to them (the percentage applied is dependent upon when the overpayment period commenced - overpayments occurring wholly on or after 08.05.2012 incur a 50% fine). \nThis figure is set in section 115A(3) Security Administration Act 1992 there is no negotiation on this. In addition to this, benefit thieves also need to pay back all of the money they deliberately defrauded. The suspect does not have to admit their guilt to be offered an Administrative Penalty, however it should only be offered by the Department for Work and Pensions, or the Local Authority if they believe there is sufficient evidence for court proceedings to be considered if the offer is refused.\n\nProsecution may typically occur in England & Wales using the Social Security Administration Act 1992, or under the Theft Act 1978, or the Fraud Act 2006; in Northern Ireland under corresponding legislation; or in Scotland under Common Law Fraud. A Prosecution is brought when the value of the overpaid benefit is so great, or the period of the fraud is lengthy, or the person may have been in a position of trust, or the fraud was very blatant. Any prosecution brought by the Department for Work and Pensions or a Local Authority should have been subject to the Public Interest Test as set out in the Code of Practice for Crown Prosecutors. In Scotland cases of benefit fraud are reported to the Procurator Fiscal for prosecution.\n\nWhere cases of benefit fraud result in criminal prosecution, in England & Wales such prosecutions are generally brought either under section 112 Social Security Administration Act 1992 (where no dishonesty is alleged) or under s111A of the same Act (where dishonesty is alleged). There are a number of legal cases relevant to prosecutions under these sections. Key points are dealt with in more detail in technical articles on benefit fraud.\n\nThe penalties for benefit fraud may be mitigated where it can be shown that the defendant would have been entitled to other forms of financial benefit, such as UK Tax Credits, had an appropriate claim on the true facts been lodged at the time.\n\nA person convicted of benefit fraud may be held to have a 'criminal lifestyle' in confiscation proceedings under Parts 2, 3 & 4 of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "777174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=777174", "title": "Big Science", "text": "Big Science\n\nBig science is a term used by scientists and historians of science to describe a series of changes in science which occurred in industrial nations during and after World War II, as scientific progress increasingly came to rely on large-scale projects usually funded by national governments or groups of governments. Individual or small group efforts, or Small Science, are still relevant today as theoretical results by individual authors may have a significant impact, but very often the empirical verification requires experiments using constructions, such as the Large Hadron Collider, costing between $5 and $10 billion.\n\nWhile science and technology have always been important to and driven by warfare, the increase in military funding of science following the second World War was on a scale wholly unprecedented. James Conant, in a 1941 letter to \"Chemical Engineering News\", said that World War II \"is a physicist's war rather than a chemist's,\" a phrase that was cemented in the vernacular in post-war discussion of the role that those scientists played in the development of new weapons and tools, notably the proximity fuze, radar, and the atomic bomb. The bulk of these last two activities took place in a new form of research facility: the government-sponsored laboratory, employing thousands of technicians and scientists, managed by universities (in this case, the University of California and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology).\n\nIn the shadow of the first atomic weapons, the importance of a strong scientific research establishment was apparent to any country wishing to play a major role in international politics. After the success of the Manhattan Project, governments became the chief patron of science, and the character of the scientific establishment underwent several key changes. This was especially marked in the United States and the Soviet Union during the Cold War, but also to a lesser extent in many other countries.\n\n\"Big science\" usually implies one or more of these specific characteristics:\n\n\nTowards the end of the 20th century, not only projects in basic physics and astronomy, but also in life sciences became big sciences, such as the massive Human Genome Project. The heavy investment of government and industrial interests into academic science has also blurred the line between public and private research, where entire academic departments, even at public universities, are often financed by private companies. Not all Big Science is related to the military concerns which were at its origins.\n\nThe era of Big Science has provoked criticism that it undermines the basic principles of the scientific method. Increased government funding has often meant increased military funding, which some claim subverts the Enlightenment-era ideal of science as a pure quest for knowledge. For example, historian Paul Forman has argued that during World War II and the Cold War, the massive scale of defense-related funding prompted a shift in physics from basic to applied research.\n\nMany scientists also complain that the requirement for increased funding makes a large part of the scientific activity filling out grant requests and other budgetary bureaucratic activity, and the intense connections between academic, governmental, and industrial interests have raised the question of whether scientists can be completely objective when their research contradicts the interests and intentions of their benefactors.\n\nIn addition, widespread sharing of scientific knowledge is necessary for rapid progress for both basic and applied sciences. However the sharing of data can be impeded for a number of reasons. For example, scientific findings can be classified by military interests or patented by corporate ones. Grant competitions, while they stimulate interest in a topic, can also increase secretiveness among scientists because application evaluators may value uniqueness more than incremental, collaborative inquiry.\n\nBig Science is labelled as fragile by essayist Nassim Nicholas Taleb in his books.\n\nThe popularization of the term \"Big Science\" is usually attributed to an article by Alvin M. Weinberg, then director of Oak Ridge National Laboratory, published in \"Science\" in 1961. This was a response to , in which the departing U.S. president warned against the dangers of what he called the \"military-industrial complex\" and the potential \"domination of the nation's scholars by Federal employment, project allocations, and the power of money\". Weinberg compared the large-scale enterprise of science in the 20th century to the wonders of earlier civilization (the pyramids, the palace of Versailles):\nWeinberg's article addressed criticisms of the way in which the era of Big Science could negatively affect science — such as astronomer Fred Hoyle's contention that excessive money for science would only make science fat and lazy — and encouraged, in the end, limiting Big Science only to the national laboratory system and preventing its incursion into the university system.\n\nSince Weinberg's article there have been many historical and sociological studies on the effects of Big Science both in and out of the laboratory. Soon after that article, Derek J. de Solla Price gave a series of lectures that were published in 1963 as \"Little Science, Big Science\". The book describes the historical and sociological transition from \"small science\" to \"big science\" and the qualitative differences between the two; it inspired the field of scientometrics as well as new perspectives on large-scale science in other fields.\n\nThe Harvard historian Peter Galison has written several books addressing the formation of big science. Major themes include the evolution of experimental design, from table-top experiments to today's large-scale collider projects; accompanying changes in standards of evidence; and discourse patterns across researchers whose expertise only partially overlaps. Galison introduced the notion of \"trading zones,\" borrowed from the sociolinguistic study of pidgins, to characterize how such groups learn to interact.\n\nOther historians have postulated many \"precursors\" to Big Science in earlier times: the Uraniborg of Tycho Brahe (in which massive astronomical instruments were made, often with little practical purpose) and the large cryogenics laboratory established by Heike Kamerlingh Onnes in 1904 have been cited as early examples of Big Science.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22450735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22450735", "title": "Canadian Political Science Association", "text": "Canadian Political Science Association\n\nThe Canadian Political Science Association (Association canadienne de science politique) is an organization of political scientists in Canada. It is a bilingual organization and publishes the bilingual journal \"Canadian Journal of Political Science (Revue canadienne de science politique)\". The organization is headquartered in Ottawa, Ontario and has an annual convention in conjunction with the Canadian Federation for the Humanities and Social Sciences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4352330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4352330", "title": "Crown Council of Ethiopia", "text": "Crown Council of Ethiopia\n\nThe Crown Council of Ethiopia was the constitutional body within the Ethiopian Empire, which advised the reigning Emperor of Ethiopia (Ge'ez: ንጉሠ ነገሥት, \"Nəgusä Nägäst\"). It also acted on behalf of the Crown. The council’s members were appointed by the Emperor.\n\nThe Communist Derg deposed the last Emperor, Haile Selassie I on 12 September 1974, and dissolved the Council. Most members of the Council were imprisoned and executed, including its president, Prince Asrate Medhin Kassa. The Derg announced that the monarchy had been abolished early in the following year. However, in 1993, a new Crown Council — which included several descendants of the late Haile Selassie I — asserted that the title of Emperor of Ethiopia was still in existence, and the Crown Council would act in its interests. Its justification was that the abolition of the monarchy by the Derg was extra-constitutional and carried out illegally.\n\nThe Federal Constitution of 1995 confirmed the status of the country as a republic, but Ethiopian royalists continue to operate the Crown Council. The Ethiopian government has however continued to accord members of the Imperial family their princely titles as a matter of courtesy. On 16 March 2005, Prince Ermias Sahle Selassie was reaffirmed by his second cousin Prince Zera Yacob as the President of the Crown Council of Ethiopia. Prince Zera Yacob is considered to be the Crown Prince of Ethiopia. On July 28, 2004, the Crown Council redefined its role by redirecting its mission from the political realm to a mission of cultural preservation, development and humanitarian efforts in Ethiopia.\n\n\nhttp://www.ethiopiancrown.org/\n\n"}
{"id": "20369147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20369147", "title": "David Blume", "text": "David Blume\n\nDavid Blume is an American permaculture teacher and entrepreneur. He has been an especially prolific public speaker, and is a vocal advocate for production of ethanol fuel, especially at local, small and medium scales.\n\nBlume is the author of \"Alcohol Can Be A Gas!\", a review of the history of alcohol used as a fuel, together with an extensive investigation of how to produce alcohol fuel from different crops, using a variety of tools and techniques, and with an explanation of relevant laws and industry practices. The focus of the book is on how to set up and run crops and facilities for local ethanol use, as opposed to large-scale industrial or commercial use.\n\nThe book was originally written in 1983 for release with \"Alcohol as Fuel\", a 10-episode how-to series on PBS produced by KQED in San Francisco. Copies of the original book and TV series, which was only aired on KQED, have since been nearly impossible to obtain. The book was rewritten and expanded to 640 pages over several years and re-released with the same title on November 1, 2007.\n\nBlume's primary insight follows from that of Buckminster Fuller, who wrote the foreword to the book in 1983: that alcohol (or ethanol) is a renewable variety of solar energy in liquid form, the cultivation of which can enhance soils, be used as a minimally- or non-polluting fuel, and enable farmers and individuals at large to make fuel locally.\n\nAt one time or another Blume has been involved in the following projects.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2093157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2093157", "title": "Deputy President of South Africa", "text": "Deputy President of South Africa\n\nThe Deputy President of South Africa is the deputy head of government of South Africa. They are a member of the National Assembly and the Cabinet. The Deputy President is constitutionally required to \"assist the President in the execution of the functions of government\", and may be assigned any government portfolio by presidential proclamation. The Deputy President performs the duties of the President of South Africa when the President is outside the country's borders, unable to fulfill the duties of the office, or when the Presidency is vacant.\n\nUnder the interim constitution (valid from 1994 to 1996), there was a Government of National Unity, in which a member of parliament from the largest opposition party was entitled to a position as deputy president. Along with Mbeki, the previous State President, F. W. de Klerk also served as Deputy President in his capacity as the leader of the National Party, then the second-largest party in the new Parliament. De Klerk later resigned and went into opposition with his party. A voluntary coalition government continues to exist under the new constitution (adopted in 1996), although there have been no appointments of opposition politicians to the post of deputy president.\n\nThe official living residences of the Deputy President are Oliver Tambo House in Pretoria, Highstead in Cape Town and Dr John L Dube House in Durban.\n\nThe Deputy President's term of office is not fixed by law. The Deputy President's term begins when he or she is appointed by the President from amongst members of the National Assembly and takes a prescribed oath. \n\nThe Deputy President's term is ended by one of four constitutional mechanisms: dismissal by the President, a successful 'motion of no confidence in the President' by the National Assembly, a successful 'motion of no confidence excluding the President' by the National Assembly, or a newly elected President's assumption of office. Presumably, a statement of resignation would also be sufficient to end a Deputy President's term of office.\n\nDepending on the extent of any informal roles and functions of the Deputy President depend on the specific relationship between the president and deputy president, but often the roles include tasks like:\n\n<br>\n\n"}
{"id": "57907903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57907903", "title": "Djajadiningrat family", "text": "Djajadiningrat family\n\nThe Djajadiningrat family was a high-ranking \"priyayi\" family in colonial Indonesia, whose members often served as \"Regents\" (district heads) of Serang in Banten, Dutch East Indies. Noted for their western outlook and loyalty to the Dutch authorities during the colonial period, the family nonetheless fought on both sides of the Indonesian Revolution (1945–1949).\n\nThe family is of Baduy and Bantenese extraction. According to Nina Consuelo Epton, the family's oral history recounts that in the middle of the seventeenth century, their ancestor, the renegade son of a Baduy chieftain, sought shelter at the court of the Sultan of Banten. He was subsequently admitted into the inner circle of the Sultan's court and was allowed to marry one of the Sultan's daughters, thereby becoming the founder of the Djajadiningrat family. \n\nLater marriages into the Javanese reigning dynasties further cemented the Djajadiningrat family's hold on power, as was shown by the career of R. T. A. Natadiningrat and his eldest son, R. T. Sutadiningrat, who both ruled in succession as Regents of Serang. The latter was succeeded by his younger brother, the progressive Raden Bagus Djajawinata.\n\nIn the late nineteenth century, the family benefited from the patronage of the Dutch scholar and educator Snouck Hurgronje. Hurgronje, who believed in coopting the Indonesian elite by giving their children a Dutch education, ensured the admission to the prestigious of the brothers Achmad (1877–1943) and Hossein Djajadiningrat (1886–1960), sons of Raden Bagus Djajawinata. Achmad, the elder son, went on to succeed his father as Regent of Serang (1901–1924), then of Batavia (1924–1929), and served as a member of both the \"Volksraad\" (Indonesia's colonial parliament) and the \"Raad van Indië\" (Council of the Indies). Hoessein, the younger son, completed his PhD at Leiden University in 1913, and became a distinguished scholar of Sundanese, Bantense, Malay and Islamic studies.\n\nThe family, like most other native Sundanese and Bantense families, originally had no surname; the Dutch-educated Achmad Djajadiningrat adopted the surname 'Djajadiningrat' in the late nineteenth century. Other prominent members of the family include Achmad Djajadiningrat's son, Idrus Nasir Djajadiningrat (1920–1980), and the latter's cousin Maria Ulfah Santoso (1911–1988), both of whom were important figures in the Indonesian Revolution. The media tycoons and Svida Alisjahbana are the daughter and granddaughter respectively of Hisnat Djajadiningrat.\n"}
{"id": "40628233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40628233", "title": "Eurocommunism", "text": "Eurocommunism\n\nEurocommunism was a revisionist trend in the 1970s and 1980s within various Western European communist parties. They claimed to be developing a theory and practice of social transformation more relevant for Western Europe. During the Cold War, they sought to undermine the influence of the Soviet Union and the Communist Party of the Soviet Union. It was especially prominent in Italy, Spain and France.\n\nThe origin of the term \"Eurocommunism\" was subject to great debate in the mid-1970s, being attributed to Zbigniew Brzezinski and Arrigo Levi, among others. Jean-François Revel once wrote that \"one of the favourite amusements of 'political scientists' is to search for the author of the term Eurocommunism\". In April 1977, \"Deutschland Archiv\" decided that the word was first used in the summer of 1975 by Yugoslav journalist Frane Barbieri, former editor of Belgrade's \"NIN\" newsmagazine. Outside Western Europe, it is sometimes referred to as \"neocommunism\". This theory stresses greater \"independence\".\n\nAccording to Perry Anderson, the main theoretical foundation of Eurocommunism was Antonio Gramsci's writing about Marxist theory which questioned the sectarianism of the left and encouraged communist parties to develop social alliances to win hegemonic support for social reforms. Early inspirations can also be found in Austro-Marxism and its seeking of a \"third\" democratic \"way\" to socialism.\n\nEurocommunist parties expressed their fidelity to democratic institutions more clearly than before and attempted to widen their appeal by embracing public sector middle-class workers, new social movements such as feminism and gay liberation and more publicly questioning the Soviet Union. However, Eurocommunism did not go as far as the Anglosphere-centred New Left movement, which had originally borrowed from the French \"nouvelle gauche\", but in the course of the events went past their academic theorists, largely abandoning Marxist historical materialism, class struggle and its traditional institutions such as communist parties.\n\nThe Prague Spring and particularly its crushing by the Soviet Union in 1968 became a turning point for the communist world. Romania's leader Nicolae Ceauşescu staunchly criticized the Soviet invasion in a speech, explicitly declaring his support for the Czechoslovakian leadership under Alexander Dubček, and while the communist parties of Portugal, South Africa and the United States supported the Soviet position, the Italian Communist Party (PCI) and the Communist Party of Spain (PCE) firmly denounced the occupation. Even the leadership of the Communist Party of Finland and the Communist Party of France (PCF), which had pleaded for conciliation, expressed their disapproval about the Soviet intervention, with the PCF thereby publicly criticizing a Soviet action for the first time in its history. The Communist Party of Greece (KKE) suffered a major split over the internal disputes regarding the Prague Spring, with the pro-Dubček faction breaking ties with the Soviet leadership and founding the KKE Interior. The usually very pro-Soviet Communist Party of Ireland initially condemned the invasion, but later changed their stance, resulting in the short-lived Eurocommunist split the Irish Marxist Society.\n\nSome communist parties with strong popular support, notably the Italian Communist Party (PCI) and the Communist Party of Spain (PCE) adopted Eurocommunism most enthusiastically. The Communist Party of Finland was dominated by Eurocommunists. In the 1980s, the traditional, pro-Soviet faction broke away, calling the main party revisionist. At least one mass party, the French Communist Party (PCF), as well as many smaller parties strongly opposed to Eurocommunism and stayed aligned to the positions of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union until the end of the Soviet Union (although the PCF did make a brief turn toward Eurocommunism in the mid-to-late 1970s).\n\nThe PCE and its Catalan referent, the United Socialist Party of Catalonia, had already been committed to the liberal possibilist politics of the Popular Front during the Spanish Civil War. The leader of the PCE, Santiago Carrillo, wrote Eurocommunism's defining book \"Eurocomunismo y estado\" (\"Eurocommunism and the State\") and participated in the development of the liberal democratic constitution as Spain emerged from the dictatorship of Franco. The communist parties of Great Britain, Belgium, the Netherlands and Austria also turned Eurocommunist.\n\nThe PCI in particular had been developing an independent line from Moscow for many years prior, which had already been exhibited in 1968, when the party refused to support the Soviet invasion of Prague. In 1975, the PCI and the PCE had made a declaration regarding the \"march toward socialism\" to be done in \"peace and freedom\". In 1976, Berlinguer had spoken of a \"pluralistic system\" (\"sistema pluralistico\" translated by the interpreter as \"multiform system\") in Moscow and in front of 5,000 communist delegates described PCI's intentions to build \"a socialism that we believe necessary and possible only in Italy\". The \"compromesso storico\" (\"historic compromise\") with \"Democrazia Cristiana\", stopped by the kidnapping and murder of Aldo Moro in 1978, was a consequence of this new policy.\n\nThe Communist Party of Finland changed its leadership already in 1965 with leadership post changing from the Stalinist Aimo Aaltonen, who had even a picture of Berija in his office, to a \"revisionist\", quite popular Trade Union man, Aarne Saarinen. The same happened and even more drastically when Finnish People's Democratic League changed its leadership also, with the reformist Ele Alenius leading it. In 1968 CPFI (and) FPDL were the only parties to directly oppose the actions of the Soviet militarship in Prague in 1968, thus the two organizations split \"de facto\" into two different parties, one reformist and one hard-line Soviet. What was peculiar was that the Youth was nearly completely Taistolaist. Progress was hard to make as the party accorded that the Taistolaist strongly pro-Soviet movement named after their leader, Taisto Sinisalo, had equal rights of power in the party though it was a minority and the vast majority of the CPFI/FPDL was Eurocommunist. In 1984, with a strong Eurocommunist majority the PCFI hard-line organizations were massively expelled from the already weakened party. Pro-Soviet hard-liners formed their own cover-organization, \"Democratic Movement\". In 1990, the new Left Alliance integrated the CPFI/FPDL, but FPDL:s ex secretary Alenius chose not to be member of it because they also took hard-line Taistolaists.\n\nWestern European communists came to Eurocommunism via a variety of routes. For some, it was their direct experience of feminist and similar action while for others it was a reaction to the political events of the Soviet Union at the apogee of what Mikhail Gorbachev later called the Era of Stagnation. This process was accelerated after the events of 1968, particularly the crushing of the Prague Spring. The politics of détente also played a part. With war less likely, Western communists were under less pressure to follow Soviet orthodoxy yet also wanted to engage with a rise in western proletarian militancy such as Italy's Hot Autumn and Britain's shop steward's movement.\n\nEurocommunism was in many ways only a staging ground for changes in the political structure of the European left. Some – principally the Italians – became social democrats while others like the Dutch CPN moved into green politics and the French party during the 1980s reverted to a more pro-Soviet stance.\n\nEurocommunism became a force across Europe in 1977, when Enrico Berlinguer of the Italian Communist Party (PCI), Santiago Carrillo of the Communist Party of Spain (PCE) and Georges Marchais of the French Communist Party (PCF) met in Madrid and laid out the fundamental lines of the \"new way\".\n\nEurocommunist ideas won at least partial acceptance outside of Western Europe. Prominent parties influenced by it outside of Europe were the Movement for Socialism (Venezuela), the Japanese Communist Party, the Mexican Communist Party and the Communist Party of Australia. Mikhail Gorbachev also refers to eurocommunism as a key influence on the ideas of \"glasnost\" and \"perestroika\" in his memoirs.\n\nThe breakup of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War put practically all leftist parties in Europe on the defensive and made neoliberal reforms the order of the day. Many Eurocommunist parties split, with the right factions (such as Democratici di Sinistra or Iniciativa per Catalunya) adopting social democracy more whole-heartedly, while the left strove to preserve some identifiably communist positions (Communist Refoundation Party in Italy or PSUC viu/Communist Party of Spain).\n\nTwo main criticisms have been advanced against Eurocommunism. First, it is alleged by critics that Eurocommunists showed a lack of courage in definitively breaking off from the Soviet Union (for example, the Italian Communist Party took this step only in 1981 after the repression of Solidarność in Poland). This \"timidity\" has been explained as the fear of losing old members and supporters, many of whom admired the Soviet Union, or with a \"realpolitik\" desire to keep the support of a strong and powerful country.\n\nOther critics point out the difficulties the Eurocommunist parties had in developing a clear and recognisable strategy. They observe that Eurocommunists have always claimed to be different – not only from Soviet communism, but also from social democracy – while in practice they were always very similar to at least one of these two tendencies. Critics thus argue that Eurocommunism does not have a well-defined identity and cannot be regarded as a separate movement in its own right.\n\nFrom a Trotskyist point of view, Ernest Mandel in \"From Stalinism to Eurocommunism: The Bitter Fruits of 'Socialism in One Country\"' views Eurocommunism as a subsequent development of the decision taken by the Soviet Union in 1924 to abandon the goal of world revolution and concentrate on social and economic development of the Soviet Union, the doctrine of \"socialism in one country\". According to this vision, the Eurocommunists of the Italian and French communist parties are considered to be nationalist movements, who together with the Soviet Union abandoned internationalism.\n\nFrom an anti-revisionist point of view, Enver Hoxha in \"Eurocommunism is Anti-Communism\" argues that Eurocommunism is the result of Nikita Khrushchev's policy of peaceful coexistence. Khrushchev was accused of being a revisionist who encouraged conciliation with the bourgeoisie rather than adequately calling for its overthrow by the dictatorship of the proletariat. He also stated that the Soviet Union's refusal to reject Palmiro Togliatti's theory of polycentrism encouraged the various pro-Soviet communist parties to moderate their views in order to join cabinets, which in turn forced them to abandon Marxism–Leninism as their leading ideology.\n\nMore generally, from the point of view of most revolutionary left-wing movements Eurocommunism simply meant an abandonment of basic communist principles, such as the call for a proletarian revolution, which eventually led many Eurocommunists to abandon communism or even socialism altogether (by giving up their commitment to overthrow capitalism). Such critics felt strongly vindicated when several Eurocommunist parties scrapped their communist credentials following the fall of the Soviet Union.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42683632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42683632", "title": "European Triarchy", "text": "European Triarchy\n\nEuropean Triarchy (\"Die europäische Triarchie\") was a book by Moses Hess published in Leipzig 1841.\n\n\"European Triarchy\" was originally published anonymously with the intent of giving a revolutionary impetus to Hegel's Philosophy of History. Hess claims that the three countries of the Triarchy - France Germany and England - were already striving for the emancipation of humanity.\n"}
{"id": "164956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=164956", "title": "Food coloring", "text": "Food coloring\n\nFood coloring, or color additive, is any dye, pigment or substance that imparts color when it is added to food or drink. They come in many forms consisting of liquids, powders, gels, and pastes. Food coloring is used both in commercial food production and in domestic cooking. Food colorants are also used in a variety of non-food applications including cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, home craft projects, and medical devices.\n\nPeople associate certain colors with certain flavors, and the color of food can influence the perceived flavor in anything from candy to wine. Sometimes the aim is to simulate a color that is perceived by the consumer as natural, such as adding red coloring to glacé cherries (which would otherwise be beige), but sometimes it is for effect, like the green ketchup that Heinz launched in 1999. Color additives are used in foods for many reasons including:\n\n\nThe addition of colorants to foods is thought to have occurred in Egyptian cities as early as 1500 BC, when candy makers added natural extracts and wine to improve the products' appearance. During the Middle Ages, the economy in the European countries was based on agriculture, and the peasants were accustomed to producing their own food locally or trading within the village communities. Under feudalism, aesthetic aspects were not considered, at least not by the vast majority of the generally very poor population. This situation changed with urbanization at the beginning of the Modern Age, when trade emerged—especially the import of precious spices and colors. One of the very first food laws, created in Augsburg, Germany, in 1531, concerned spices or colorants and required saffron counterfeiters to be burned.\n\nWith the onset of the industrial revolution, people became dependent on foods produced by others. These new urban dwellers demanded food at low cost. Analytical chemistry was still primitive and regulations few. The adulteration of foods flourished. Heavy metal and other inorganic element-containing compounds turned out to be cheap and suitable to \"restore\" the color of watered-down milk and other foodstuffs, some more lurid examples being:\n\nSellers at the time offered more than 80 artificial coloring agents, some invented for dyeing textiles, not foods. Many color additives had never been tested for toxicity or other adverse effects. Historical records show that injuries, even deaths, resulted from tainted colorants. In 1851, about 200 people were poisoned in England, 17 of them fatally, directly as a result of eating adulterated lozenges. In 1856, mauveine, the first synthetic color, was developed by Sir William Henry Perkin and by the turn of the century, unmonitored color additives had spread through Europe and the United States in all sorts of popular foods, including ketchup, mustard, jellies, and wine. Originally, these were dubbed 'coal-tar' colors because the starting materials were obtained from bituminous coal.\n\nMany synthesized dyes were easier and less costly to produce and were superior in coloring properties when compared to naturally derived alternatives. Some synthetic food colorants are diazo dyes. Diazo dyes are prepared by coupling of a diazonium compound with a second aromatic hydrocarbons. The resulting compounds contain conjugated systems that efficiently absorb light in the visible parts of the spectrum, i.e. they are deeply colored. The attractiveness of the synthetic dyes is that their color, lipophilicity, and other attributes can be engineered by the design of the specific dyestuff. The color of the dyes can be controlled by selecting the number of azo-groups and various substituents. Yellow shades are often achieved by using acetoacetanilide. Red colors are often azo compounds. The pair indigo and indigo carmine exhibit the same blue color, but the former is soluble in lipids, and the latter is water-soluble because it has been fitted with sulfonate functional groups.\n\nConcerns over food safety led to numerous regulations throughout the world. German food regulations released in 1882 stipulated the exclusion of dangerous minerals such as arsenic, copper, chromium, lead, mercury and zinc, which were frequently used as ingredients in colorants. In contrast to today, these first laws followed the principle of a negative listing (substances not allowed for use); they were already driven by the main principles of today's food regulations all over the world, since all of these regulations follow the same goal: the protection of consumers from toxic substances and from fraud. In the United States, the reduced the permitted list of synthetic colors from 700 down to seven. The seven dyes initially approved were Ponceau 3R (FD&C Red No. 1), amaranth (FD&C Red No. 2), erythrosine (FD&C Red No. 3), indigotine (FD&C Blue No. 2), Light Green SF (FD&C Green No. 2), Naphthol yellow 1 (FD&C Yellow No. 1), and Orange 1 (FD&C Orange No. 1). Even with updated food laws, adulteration continued for many years and this, together with more recent adverse press comments on food colors and health, has continued to contribute to consumer concern about color addition to foodstuffs.\n\nIn the 20th century, the improvement of chemical analysis and the development of trials to identify the toxic features of substances added to foods led to the replacement of the negative lists by lists of substances allowed to be used for the production and the improvement of foods. This principle is called a positive listing, and almost all recent legislations are based on it. Positive listing implies that substances meant for human consumption have been tested for their safety, and that they have to meet specified purity criteria prior to their approval by the corresponding authorities. In 1962, the first EU directive (62/2645/EEC) approved 36 colorants, of which 20 were naturally derived and 16 were synthetic. This directive did not list which food products the colorants could or could not be used in. At that time, each member state could designate where certain colors could and could not be used. In Germany, for example, quinoline yellow was allowed in puddings and desserts, but tartrazine was not. The reverse was true in France. This was updated in 1989 with 89/107/EEC, which concerned food additives authorized for use in foodstuffs.\n\nWhile naturally derived colors are not required to be certified by a number of regulatory bodies throughout the world (including the U.S. FDA), they still need to be approved for use in that country. Food colorings are tested for safety by various bodies around the world and sometimes different bodies have different views on food color safety.\n\nFDA's permitted colors are classified as subject to certification or exempt from certification in Code of Federal Regulations - Title 21 Part 73 & 74, both of which are subject to rigorous safety standards prior to their approval and listing for use in foods.\n\n\nIn the United States, FD&C numbers (which indicate that the FDA has approved the colorant for use in foods, drugs and cosmetics) are given to approved synthetic food dyes that do not exist in nature, while in the European Union, E numbers are used for all additives, both synthetic and natural, that are approved in food applications. The food colors are known by E numbers that begin with a 1, such as E100 (turmeric) or E161b (lutein). The safety of food colors and other food additives in the EU is evaluated by the European Food Safety Authority. Color Directive 94/36/EC, enacted by the European Commission in 1994, outlines permitted natural and artificial colors with their approved applications and limits in different foodstuffs. This is binding to all member countries of the EU. Any changes have to be implemented into their national laws within a given time frame. In non-EU member states, food additives are regulated by their national authorities, which usually, but not in all cases, try to harmonize with the laws adopted by the EU. Most other countries have their own regulations and list of food colors which can be used in various applications, including maximum daily intake limits.\n\nCanadian Regulations\n\nFood in Canada cannot be sold with more than:\n\n\nE numbers 102-143 cover the range of artificial colors. For an overview of currently allowed additives see here . Some artificial dyes approved for food use in the EU include:\n\nIn the US, the following seven artificial colorings are generally permitted in food (the most common in bold) . The lakes of these colorings are also permitted except the lake of Red No. 3.\n\nTwo dyes are allowed by the FDA for limited applications:\n\n\nMany dyes have been delisted for a variety of reasons, ranging from poor coloring properties to regulatory restrictions. Some of these delisted food colorants are:\n\nSince the beginning of the 1960s, JECFA has promoted the development of international standards for food additives, not only by its toxicological assessments, which are continuously published by the WHO in a \"Technical Report Series\", but furthermore by elaborating appropriate purity criteria, which are laid down in the two volumes of the \"Compendium of Food Additive Specifications\" and their supplements. These specifications are not legally binding but very often serve as a guiding principle, especially in countries where no scientific expert committees have been established.\n\nIn order to further regulate the use of these evaluated additives, in 1962 the WHO and FAO created an international commission, the Codex Alimentarius, which is composed of authorities, food industry associations and consumer groups from all over the world. Within the Codex organization, the Codex Committee for Food Additives and Contaminants is responsible for working out recommendations for the application of food additives, the General Standard for Food Additives. In the light of the World Trade Organizations General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the Codex Standard, although not legally binding, influences food color regulations all over the world.\n\nCarotenoids (E160, E161, E164), chlorophyllin (E140, E141), anthocyanins (E163), and betanin (E162) comprise four main categories of plant pigments grown to color food products. Other colorants or specialized derivatives of these core groups include:\nBlue colors are especially rare. One feasible blue dye currently in use is derived from spirulina.\n\nTo ensure reproducibility, the colored components of these substances are often provided in highly purified form. For stability and convenience, they can be formulated in suitable carrier materials (solid and liquids). Hexane, acetone, and other solvents break down cell walls in the fruit and vegetables and allow for maximum extraction of the coloring. Traces of these may still remain in the finished colorant, but they do not need to be declared on the product label. These solvents are known as carry-over ingredients.\n\nWidespread public belief that artificial food coloring causes ADHD-like hyperactivity in children originated from Benjamin Feingold, a pediatric allergist from California, who proposed in 1973 that salicylates, artificial colors, and artificial flavors cause hyperactivity in children; however, there is no evidence to support broad claims that food coloring causes food intolerance and ADHD-like behavior in children. It is possible that certain food colorings may act as a trigger in those who are genetically predisposed, but the evidence is weak.\n\nDespite concerns were expressed that food colorings may cause ADHD-like behavior in children, the collective evidence does not support this assertion. The US FDA and other food safety authorities to regularly review the scientific literature, and led the UK Food Standards Agency (FSA) to commission a study by researchers at Southampton University of the effect of a mixture of six food dyes (Tartrazine, Allura Red, Ponceau 4R, Quinoline Yellow WS, Sunset Yellow and Carmoisine (dubbed the \"Southampton 6\")) on children in the general population. These colorants are found in beverages. The study found \"a possible link between the consumption of these artificial colours and a sodium benzoate preservative and increased hyperactivity\" in the children; the advisory committee to the FSA that evaluated the study also determined that because of study limitations, the results could not be extrapolated to the general population, and further testing was recommended\". The U.S. FDA did not make changes following the publication of the Southampton study, but following a citizen petition filed by the Center for Science in the Public Interest in 2008, requesting the FDA ban several food additives, the FDA reviewed the available evidence, and still made no changes.\n\nThe European regulatory community, with an emphasis on the precautionary principle, required labelling and temporarily reduced the acceptable daily intake (ADI) for the food colorings; the UK FSA called for voluntary withdrawal of the colorings by food manufacturers. However, in 2009 the EFSA re-evaluated the data at hand and determined that \"the available scientific evidence does not substantiate a link between the color additives and behavioral effects\" for any of the dyes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37259787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37259787", "title": "Forensic speechreading", "text": "Forensic speechreading\n\nForensic speechreading (or forensic lipreading) is the use of speechreading for information or evidential purposes. Forensic speechreading can be considered a branch of forensic linguistics. In contrast to speaker recognition which is often the focus of voice analysis from an audio record, forensic speechreading usually aims to establish the \"content\" of speech, since the \"identity\" of the talker is usually apparent. Often, it involves the production of a transcript of lipread video-records of talk that lack a usable audiotrack, for example CCTV material. Occasionally, 'live' lipreading is involved, for example in the Casey Anthony case. Forensic speechreaders are usually deaf or from deaf families (CODA), and use speechreading in their daily lives to a greater extent than people with normal hearing outwith a deaf community. Some speechreading tests suggest deaf people can be better lipreaders than most hearing people.\n\nNo tests of speechreading have yet been developed in a forensic context: that is, to benchmark individual skills in speechreading from a video record, including production of a reliable transcript. For many years, UK agencies made extensive use of one particular speechreader, whose reports are now not to be used for evidential purposes. Several speechreaders and deaf professionals currently offer these services. In the UK,these include Terry Ruane, Laraine Callow MBE,Tina Lannin among others. In the US, Consuelo Gonzalez is a leading lipreading expert. Expert speechreaders may be able to advise on various issues, including whether a videorecord is or is not speechreadable, and the accent and language used by a talker. Commissioning agents need to be aware of issues inherent in the unreliability of speechreading, and be prepared to treat such advice with caution.\n\nIn the UK, a landmark case and appeal (\"R. v Luttrell\" et al., 2004) established the admissibility of lipreading evidence. However, the appeal court also required that the judge should issue a special warning as to its risks and limitations.\n\nWhile lipread speech can carry useful speech information, it is inherently less accurate than (clearly) heard speech because many distinctive features of speech are produced by actions of the tongue within the oral cavity and are not visible. This is a limitation imposed by speech itself, not the expertise of the speechreader. It is the main reason why the accuracy of a speechreader working on a purely visual record cannot be considered wholly reliable, however skilled they may be and irrespective of hearing status. The type of evidence and the utility of such evidence varies from case to case.\n\nIn the US, there is debate concerning the admissibility of speechreading evidence and its status, especially in relation to variations in state and federal evidential procedures, and with respect to the privacy implications of the Fourth Amendment to the US constitution.\n\n"}
{"id": "31672783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31672783", "title": "Glyceryl behenate", "text": "Glyceryl behenate\n\nGlyceryl behenate is a fat used in cosmetics, foods, and oral pharmaceutical formulations. In cosmetics, it is mainly used as a viscosity-increasing agent in emulsions.\n\nIn pharmaceutical formulations, glyceryl behenate is mainly used as a tablet and capsule lubricant and as a lipidic coating excipient. It has been investigated for the encapsulation of various drugs such as retinoids. It has also been investigated for use in the preparation of sustained release tablets as a matrix-forming agent for the controlled release of water-soluble drugs and as a lubricant in oral solid dosage formulations. It can also be used as a hot-melt coating agent sprayed onto a powder.\n\nIt is used widely in cosmetics as non-comedogenic (non- pimple causing substance) ingredient. It does not clog the oil pores of facial skin.\n\nIt is also used widely as ingredient for preparation of lipidic nano-particles such as solid lipid nanoparticles (SLN) and nanostructured lipid carriers (NLC). Chemically, glyceryl behenate is a mixture of various esters of behenic acid and glycerol (glycerides). The mixture predominantly contains the diester glyceryl dibehenate.\n\n"}
{"id": "450955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=450955", "title": "Gun laws in Australia", "text": "Gun laws in Australia\n\nGun laws in Australia are mainly the jurisdiction of Australian states and territories, with the importation of guns regulated by the federal government. In the last two decades of the 20th century, following several high-profile killing sprees, the federal government coordinated more restrictive firearms legislation with all state governments. Gun laws were largely aligned in 1996 by the National Firearms Agreement.\n\nA person must have a firearm licence to possess or use a firearm. Licence holders must demonstrate a \"genuine reason\" (which does not include self-defence) for holding a firearm licence and must not be a \"prohibited person\". All firearms must be registered by serial number to the owner, who also holds a firearms licence. \n\nStudies on the effects of Australia's gun laws have shown that the laws have not been effective in reducing mass shootings, although they have been somewhat effective in reducing firearm suicides.<ref name=\"LemieuxBricknell2015\"/ Polling shows strong support for gun legislation in Australia with around 85 to 90% of people wanting the same or greater level of restrictions.\n\nThe first gun law in Australia was an order in 1807 of New South Wales Governor William Bligh that:\n\nOver the next 100 years, some regulations to punish poachers and to privilege the gentry were added, following British patterns. During World War I, social changes in Europe and soldiers returning with war-weapons changed the focus from the perceived problem of guns to that of crime, social control and the government's monopoly on violence.\n\nAll Australian states and territories enacted gun control regulations between 1921 and 1931. The \"Firearms and Guns Act 1931\" (Western Australia) permitted possession of rifles and shotguns in Western Australia, while other jurisdictions allowed possession of registered handguns only. Until 1981, five out of the eight jurisdictions did not require registration of long guns. Tasmania and Queensland had no licensing or registration requirements; Victoria, New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory had licenses for uncounted long arms without single registration. Between 1984 and 1987, in Victoria, 60% of long guns were registered.\n\nFollowing the shooting incidents at Port Arthur in 1996 and Monash University in 2002 the Australian state and territory governments, through the then Australian Police Ministers' Council (APMC) and Council of Australian Governments (COAG), entered into three national agreements that were responsible for shaping contemporary Australian firearm laws. These agreements were the:\nThe ownership, possession and use of firearms in Australia is regulated by state laws.\nThe Australian state and territory laws regulating firearms are:\n\nAt the federal level, the importation of firearms is subject to the restrictions in Regulation 4F and Schedule 6 of the \"Customs (Prohibited Imports) Regulations 1956\" (Cth).\nThe National Firearm Agreement defines categories of firearms, with different levels of control for each, as follows:.\n\n\nCertain antique firearms (generally muzzle loading black powder flintlock firearms manufactured before 1 January 1901) can in some states be legally held without a licence. In other states they are subject to the same requirements as modern firearms. All single-shot muzzleloading firearms manufactured before 1 January 1901 are considered antique firearms. Four states require licences for antique percussion revolvers and cartridge repeating firearms, but in Queensland and Victoria a person may possess such a firearm without a licence, so long as the firearm is registered (percussion revolvers require a licence in Victoria).\n\nThe states issue firearms licences for a legal reason, such as hunting, sport shooting, pest control, collecting and for farmers and farm workers. Licences are prohibited for convicted offenders and those with a history of mental illness. Licences must be renewed every 3 or 5 years (or 10 years in the Northern Territory and South Australia). Full licence-holders must be 18 years of age; minor's permits allow the use of a firearm under adult supervision by those as young as 12 in most states.\n\nHandguns may be obtained by target shooters, primary producers in some states and certain security guards after serving a probationary six-month period with a shooting club. Restricted weapons include military weapons, high-capacity semi-automatic rifles and pump-action and semi-automatic shotguns holding more than 5 rounds.\n\nA 2017 study commissioned by Gun Control Australia claimed that Australian states had significantly weakened gun laws since the National Firearms Agreement was first introduced, with no jurisdiction fully compliant with the Agreement. For example, many states now allow children to fire guns under strict supervision and the mandatory 28 day cooling-off period required for gun purchases has been relaxed, with no waiting period for purchasers who already own at least one gun. New South Wales also allows the limited use of moderators via a permit even though they are supposed to be a prohibited weapon. No state or territory has outlined a timeframe for achieving full compliance with the National Firearms Agreement.\n\nFirearms were introduced to Australia with European settlement on 26 January 1788, though other seafarers that visited Australia before settlement also carried firearms. The colony of New South Wales was initially a penal settlement, with the military garrison being armed. Firearms were also used for hunting, protection of persons and crops, in crime and fighting crime, and in many military engagements. From the landing of the First Fleet there was conflict with Aborigines over game, access to fenced land, and spearing of livestock. Firearms were used to protect explorers and settlers from Aboriginal attack. A number of punitive raids and massacres of Aboriginals were carried out in a series of local conflicts.\n\nFrom the beginning, there were controls on firearms. The firearms issued to convicts (for meat hunting) and settlers (for hunting and protection) were stolen and misused, resulting in more controls. In January 1796, David Collins wrote that \"several attempts had been made to ascertain the number of arms in the possession of individuals, as many were feared to be in the hands of those who committed depredations; the crown recalled between two and three hundred stands of arms, but not 50 stands were accounted for\".\n\nAustralian colonists also used firearms in conflict with bushrangers and armed rebellions such as the 1804 Castle Hill convict rebellion and the 1854 Eureka Stockade.\n\nGun laws were the responsibility of each colony and, since Federation in 1901, of each state. The Commonwealth does not have constitutional authority over firearms, but it has jurisdiction over customs and defence matters. Federally the external affairs powers can be used to enforce internal control over matters agreed in external treaties.\n\nIn New South Wales, handguns were effectively banned after World War II but the 1956 Melbourne Olympic Games sparked a new interest in the sport of pistol shooting and laws were changed to allow the sport to develop.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, individuals may also be subject to firearm prohibition orders (FPOs), which give police additional powers to search and question the individual for firearms or ammunition without a warrant. FPOs have been available in New South Wales since 1973, and are also used in Victoria. \n\nIn October 2016, it was estimated that there were 260,000 unregistered guns in Australia, 250,000 long arms and 10,000 handguns, most of them in the hands of organised crime groups and other criminals. There are 3 million registered firearms in Australia. \n\nIn March 2017, there were 915,000 registered firearms in New South Wales, 18,967 in the ACT, 298,851 in South Australia, and 126,910 in Tasmania. The other jurisdictions did not make the information public. \n\nIn 2015, there were more private firearms in Australia than there were before the Port Arthur massacre, when 1 million firearms were destroyed.\n\nThere has been an incremental move since the 1970s for police forces in the eight jurisdictions in Australia to routinely carry exposed firearms while on duty. In the 1970s the norm was for police to carry a baton, with only NSW police carrying firearms. Since then, police have been authorised to carry a covered firearm, and then to carry an exposed firearm. The shift has taken place without public debate or a proper assessment of the vulnerability of police officers, but has taken place with public acquiescence.\nFrom 1984 to 1996, multiple killings aroused public concern. The 1984 Milperra massacre was a major incident in a series of conflicts between various \"outlaw motorcycle gangs\". In 1987, the Hoddle Street massacre and the Queen Street massacre took place in Melbourne. In response, several states required the registration of all guns, and restricted the availability of self-loading rifles and shotguns. In the Strathfield massacre in New South Wales, 1991, two were killed with a knife, and five more with a firearm. Tasmania passed a law in 1991 for firearm purchasers to obtain a licence, though enforcement was light. Firearm laws in Tasmania and Queensland remained relatively relaxed for longarms.\n\nShooting massacres in Australia and other English-speaking countries often occurred close together in time. Forensic psychiatrists attribute this to copycat behaviour, which is in many cases triggered by sensational media treatment. Mass murderers study media reports and imitate the actions and equipment that are sensationalised in them.\n\nThe Port Arthur massacre took place in 1996 when the gunman opened fire on shop owners and tourists with two semi-automatic rifles that left 35 people dead and 23 wounded. This mass killing horrified the Australian public and transformed gun control legislation in Australia.\n\nPrime Minister John Howard convinced the states to adopt the gun law proposals made in a report of the 1988 National Committee on Violence as the National Firearms Agreement. The Australian Constitution does not give the Commonwealth power to enact gun laws. In the face of some state resistance, Howard threatened to hold a nationwide referendum to alter the Australian Constitution to give the Commonwealth constitutional power over guns. The proposals included a ban on all semi-automatic rifles and all semi-automatic and pump-action shotguns, and a system of licensing and ownership controls.\n\nThe Howard Government held a series of public meetings to explain the proposed changes. In the first meeting, Howard wore a bullet-resistant vest, which was visible under his jacket. Many shooters were critical of this. Some firearm owners applied to join the Liberal Party in an attempt to influence the government, but the party barred them from membership. A court action by 500 shooters seeking admission to membership eventually failed in the Supreme Court of South Australia.\n\nThe Australian Constitution requires just compensation be given for property taken over, so the federal government introduced the \"Medicare Levy Amendment Act 1996\" to raise the predicted cost of A$500 million through a one-off increase in the Medicare levy. The gun buy-back scheme started on 1 October 1996 and concluded on 30 September 1997. The government bought back and destroyed over 1 million firearms.\n\nIn October 2002, a commerce student killed two fellow students at Monash University in Victoria with pistols he had acquired as a member of a shooting club. The gunman, Huan Yun Xiang, was acquitted of crimes related to the shootings due to mental impairment but ordered to be detained in Thomas Embling Hospital, a high-security hospital for up to 25 years.\n\nAs in 1996, the federal government urged state governments to review handgun laws, and amended legislation was adopted in all states and territories. Changes included a 10-round magazine capacity limit, a calibre limit of not more than .38 inches (9.65 mm) (since expanded under certain criteria), a barrel length limit of not less than 120 mm (4.72 inches) for semi-automatic pistols and 100 mm (3.94 inches) for revolvers, and even stricter probation and attendance requirements for sporting target shooters. Whilst handguns for sporting shooters are nominally restricted to .38 inches as a maximum calibre, it is possible to obtain an endorsement allowing calibres up to .45 inches (11.43 mm) to be used for metallic silhouette or Single Action Shooting matches. These new laws were opposed not only by sporting shooters groups but also by gun control supporters, who saw it as paying for shooters to upgrade to new guns. \n\nOne government policy was to compensate shooters for giving up the sport. Approximately 25% of pistol shooters took this offer, and relinquished their licences and their right to own pistols for sport for five years; in Victoria it is estimated 1/3 of people surrendering firearms took this option.\n\nOn 15–16 December 2014, a lone gunman, Man Haron Monis, held hostage 17 customers and employees of a Lindt chocolate café located at Martin Place in Sydney, Australia. The perpetrator was on bail at the time and had previously been convicted of a range of offences. Two of the hostages and the perpetrator died.\n\nIn August 2015, Mike Baird and Troy Grant announced a tightening of laws on bail and illegal firearms, creating a new offence for the possession of a stolen firearm, with a maximum of 14 years imprisonment and establishing an Illegal Firearms Investigation and Reward Scheme. This legislative change also introduced measures to reduce illegal firearms in NSW including a ban on the possession of digital blueprints that enable firearms to be manufactured using 3D printers and milling machines for anyone without an appropriate licence.\n\nIn New South Wales there have been three gun amnesties in 2001, 2003 and 2009. 63,000 handguns were handed in during the first two amnesties and over 4,323 handguns were handed in during the third amnesty. During the third amnesty 21,615 firearm registrations were received by the Firearms Registry. The surrendered firearms were all destroyed.\n\nOn 16 June 2017, the Minister for Justice Michael Keenan announced that a national firearms amnesty would commence on 1 July 2017 for three months until September 30, to hand in unregistered or unwanted firearms. The amnesty had been approved in March 2017 by the Firearms and Weapons Policy Working Group (FWPWG) to reduce the number of unregistered firearms in Australia following the Lindt Cafe siege in 2014, and the 2015 shooting of an unarmed police civilian finance worker outside the New South Wales Police Force headquarters in Parramatta, Sydney.\n\nThe firearms amnesty was the first national amnesty since the 1996 Port Arthur massacre. In October 2017 Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said that 51,000 unregistered firearms were surrendered during the three-month amnesty, of the previous estimate of 260,000 unregistered guns.\n\nBetween 1991 and 2001, the number of firearm-related deaths in Australia declined by 47%. Suicides committed with firearms accounted for 77% of these deaths, followed by firearms homicide (15%), firearms accidents (5%), firearms deaths resulting from legal intervention and undetermined deaths (2%). The number of firearms suicides was in decline consistently from 1991 to 1998, two years after the introduction of firearm regulation in 1996.\n\nSuicide deaths using firearms more than halved in ten years, from 389 deaths in 1995, to 147 deaths in 2005. This is equal to 7% of all suicides in 2005. Over the same period, suicides by hanging increased by over 52% from 699 in 1995 to 1068 in 2005.\n\nThe number of guns stolen fell from an average 4,195 per year from 1994 to 2000 to 1,526 in 2006–2007. Long guns are more often stolen opportunistically in home burglaries, but few homes have handguns and a substantial proportion of stolen handguns are taken from security firms and other businesses; only a small proportion, 0.06% of licensed firearms, are stolen in a given year. A small proportion of those firearms are reported to be recovered. About 3% of these stolen weapons are later connected to an actual crime or found in the possession of a person charged with a serious offence. As of 2011 and 2012, pistols and semi-automatic pistols were traded on the black market for ten to twenty thousand dollars.\n\nIn 1997, the Prime Minister appointed the Australian Institute of Criminology to monitor the effects of the gun buyback. The institute has published a number of papers reporting trends and statistics around gun ownership and gun crime.\n\nMany studies have followed, providing varying results stemming from different methodologies and areas of focus. David Hemenway and Mary Vriniotis of Harvard University, funded by the Joyce Foundation summarized the research in 2011 and concluded; “it would have been difficult to imagine more compelling future evidence of a beneficial effect.” They said that a complication in evaluating the effect of the NFA was that gun deaths were falling in the early 1990s. They added that everyone should be pleased with the \"immediate, and continuing, reduction\" in firearm suicide and firearm homicide following the NFA.\n\nSuicide reduction from firearm regulation is disputed by Richard Harding in his 1981 book \"Firearms and Violence in Australian Life\" where, after reviewing Australian statistics, he said that \"whatever arguments might be made for the limitation or regulation of the private ownership of firearms, suicide patterns do not constitute one of them\" Harding quoted a 1969 international analysis by Newton and Zimring of twenty developed countries which concluded at page 36 of their report; \"cultural factors appear to affect suicide rates far more than the availability and use of firearms. Thus, suicide rates would not seem to be readily affected by making firearms less available.\" Harding later supported 1985 laws to restrict gun ownership in New South Wales, saying that laws contributing to \"slowing down in the growth of the Australian gun inventory\" are \"to be welcomed\".\n\nIn 2002, Jenny Mouzos from the Australian Institute of Criminology examined the rate of firearm theft in Australian states in territories following the firearm regulation. She found that \"the NFA... is having the desired effect: securely stored firearms are proving less vulnerable to theft.\"\n\nIn 2003, researchers from the Monash University Accident Research Centre examined firearm deaths and mortality in the years before and after firearm regulation. They concluded that there was \"dramatic\" reduction in firearm deaths and especially suicides due to \"the implementation of strong regulatory reform\".\n\nMultiple studies have been conducted by Jeanine Baker and Samara McPhedran, researchers with the International Coalition for Women in Shooting and Hunting (WiSH). In 2006 they reported a lack of a measurable effect from the 1996 firearms legislation in the \"British Journal of Criminology\". Using ARIMA analysis, they found little evidence for an impact of the laws on homicide, but did for suicide. Subsequently, they compared the incidence of mass shootings in Australia and New Zealand. Data were standardised to a rate per 100,000 people, to control for differences in population size between the countries and mass shootings before and after 1996/1997 were compared between countries. That study found that in the period 1980–1996, both countries experienced mass shootings. The rate did not differ significantly between countries. Since 1996-1997, neither country has experienced a mass shooting event despite the continued availability of semi-automatic longarms in New Zealand. The authors conclude that \"if civilian access to certain types of firearms explained the occurrence of mass shootings in Australia then New Zealand would have continued to experience mass shooting events.\" In 2012, McPhedran and Baker found there was little evidence for any impacts of the gun laws on firearm suicide among people under 35 years of age, and suggest that the significant financial expenditure associated with Australia's firearms method restriction measures may not have had any impact on youth suicide. Head of the New South Wales Bureau of Crime Statistics and Research, Don Weatherburn described the Baker and McPhedran article as \"reputable\" and \"well-conducted\" but also stated that \"it would be wrong to infer from the study that it does not matter how many guns there are in the community.\" Simon Chapman stated this study ignored the Mass Shootings issue such as Port Arthur Massacre. Weatherburn noted the importance of actively policing illegal firearm trafficking and argued that there was little evidence that the new laws had helped in this regard. He also stated that the 1996 legislation had little to no effect on violence saying the \"laws did not result in any acceleration of the downward trend in gun homicide.\" \n\nA 2006 study coauthored by Simon Chapman concluded: \"Australia's 1996 gun law reforms were followed by more than a decade free of fatal mass shootings, and accelerated declines in firearm deaths, particularly suicides. Total homicide rates followed the same pattern. Removing large numbers of rapid-firing firearms from civilians may be an effective way of reducing mass shootings, firearm homicides and firearm suicides.\"\n\nIn 2007, a meta-analysis published in the Australian Medical Association's \"The Medical Journal of Australia\" researched nationwide firearm suicides. They said that the analysis was consistent with the hypothesis that \"measures to control the availability\nof firearms... have resulted in a decline in total suicide rates\" and recommended further reduction in the availability of lethal means.\n\nA 2008 study on the effects of the firearm buybacks by Wang-Sheng Lee and Sandy Suardi of University of Melbourne and La Trobe University studied the data and concluded \"the NFA did not have any large effects on reducing firearm homicide or suicide rates.\"\n\nIn 2009 a study published in the \"Journal of Sociology\" examined the rate of firearm suicide in Queensland. They found that \"gun suicides are continuing to decrease in Queensland\" and is \"most likely as a function of ongoing gun controls\".\n\nIn 2009 another paper from the Australian Institute for Suicide Research and Prevention at Griffith University also studied suicide in Queensland only. The said \"No significant difference was found in the rate pre/post the introduction of the NFA in Queensland; however, a significant difference was found for Australian data, the quality of which is noticeably less satisfactory.\"\n\nA 2010 study by Christine Neill and Andrew Leigh found the 1997 gun buyback scheme reduced firearm suicides by 74% while having no effect on non-firearm suicides or substitution of method.\n\nA 2014 report stated that approximately \"260,000 guns are on the Australian 'grey' or black markets\", and discussed the potential problem of people using 3D printers to create guns. NSW and Victorian police obtained plans to create 3D printed guns and tested to see if they could fire, but the guns exploded during testing.\n\nIn a 2013 report Samantha Bricknell from the Australian Institute of Criminology, Frederic Lemieux and Tim Prenzler compared mass shootings between America and Australia and found the \"1996 NFA coincided within the cessation of mass shooting events\" in Australia, and that there were reductions in America that were evident during the 1994-2004 US Federal Assault Weapon Ban.\n\nA 2015 journal article in the \"International Review of Law and Economics\" evaluated the effect of the NFA on overall crime, rather than just firearm deaths like other studies. Using the difference in differences identification approach, they found that after the NFA, \"there were significant decreases in armed robbery and attempted murder relative to sexual assault\".\n\nIn 2016 four researchers evaluated the National Firearms Agreement after 20 years in relation to mental health. They said that the \"NFA exemplifies how firearms regulation can prevent firearm mortality and injuries.\"\n\nIn 2016 a study by Adam Lankford, associate professor of criminal justice, examined the links between public mass shootings and gun availability in various countries. He found that the restrictions in Australia were effective, concluding that \"in the wake of these policies, Australia has yet to experience another public mass shooting.\"\n\nA 2017 oral presentation published in \"Injury Prevention\" examined the effect of the NFA on overall firearm mortality. They found that the NFA decreased firearm deaths by 61% and concluded that \"Australian firearm regulations indeed contributed to a decline in firearm mortality.\" After this study, these researchers were reported in the Journal of Experimental Criminology in connection with another study with Charles Branas at Columbia University which concluded; \"Current evidence showing decreases in firearm mortality after the 1996 Australian national firearm law relies on an empirical model that may have limited ability to identify the true effects of the law.\" \n\nUntil 1996, the federal government had little role in firearms law. Following the Port Arthur massacre, the Howard Government (1996–2007), with strong media and public support, introduced uniform gun laws with the cooperation of all the states, brought about through threats to Commonwealth funding arrangements. Then Prime Minister John Howard frequently referred to the United States to explain his opposition to civilian firearms ownership and use in Australia, stating that he did not want Australia to go \"down the American path\". In one interview on Sydney radio station 2GB he said, \"We will find any means we can to further restrict them because I hate guns... ordinary citizens should not have weapons. We do not want the American disease imported into Australia.\" In 1995 Howard, as opposition leader, had expressed a desire to introduce restrictive gun laws.\n\nIn Howard's autobiography \"\", Howard expressed his support for the anti-gun cause and his desire to introduce restrictive gun laws long before he became prime minister. In a television interview shortly before the 10th anniversary of the Port Arthur massacre, he reaffirmed his stance: \"I did not want Australia to go down the American path. There are some things about America I admire and there are some things I don't. And one of the things I don't admire about America is their... slavish love of guns. They're evil\". During the same television interview, Howard also stated that he saw the outpouring of grief in the aftermath of the Port Arthur massacre as \"an opportunity to grab the moment and think about a fundamental change to gun laws in this country\".\n\nHoward had strong public support in the immediate aftermath of the Port Arthur massacre, especially from those people who regularly voted against the Liberal Party. The Nationals had strong support from rural voters, some of whom were opposed to the government's moves towards gun control.\n\nThe National Firearms Agreement has had continuing support from both Labor and Coalition federal governments.\n\nThe National Coalition for Gun Control (NCGC) had a high profile in the public debate up to and immediately after the Port Arthur massacre. Rebecca Peters, Roland Browne, Simon Chapman and Reverend Tim Costello appeared in media reports and authored articles to support their aims. In the aftermath of Port Arthur a number of public health bodies added their support to the NCGC.\n\nIn 1996, the NCGC had received the Australian Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission's Community Human Rights award.\n\nIn 2003, Samantha Lee as chair of the NCGC was financed by a Churchill Fellowship to publish a paper arguing that current handgun legislation is too loose, that police officers who are shooters have a conflict of interest, and that licensed private firearm ownership \"per se\" presents a threat to women and children. In a late 2005 press release, Roland Browne as co-chair of the NCGC, advocated further restrictions on handguns.\n\nShooting clubs have existed in Australia since the mid-19th century. They are mainly concerned with protecting the viability of hunting, collecting and target shooting sports. Australian shooters regard their sport as under permanent threat from increasingly restrictive legislation. They argue that they have been made scapegoats by politicians, the media, and anti-gun activists for the acts of criminals who generally use illegal firearms. Their researchers have found scant evidence that increasing restrictions have improved public safety, despite the high costs and severe regulatory barriers imposed on shooters in Australia.\n\nThe largest organisation of firearms owners is the Sporting Shooters Association of Australia (SSAA) which was established in 1948, and as at 2015 had 175,000 members. SSAA state branches lobby on local issues, while SSAA National addresses federal legislation and international issues. SSAA National has non-government organisation (NGO) status at the United Nations and is a founding member of The World Forum on the Future of Sport Shooting Activities (WFSA), which also has NGO status. SSAA National has a number of people working in research and lobbying roles. In 2008, they appointed journalist and media manager Tim Bannister as federal parliamentary lobbyist. \nSSAA argues that there is no evidence that gun control restrictions in 1987, 1996 and 2002 had any impact on the already established trends. Also, responding to Neill and Leigh, SSAA said that 93% of people replaced their seized firearms with at least one, to replace their surrendered firearms.\n\nFor handguns, one major organisation in Australia is Pistol Australia.\n\nThere are several other national bodies, such as (SIFA) Shooting Industry Foundation of Australia, Field and Game Australia, the National Rifle Association of Australia, the International Practical Shooting Confederation (IPSC), the Australian Clay Target Association and Target Rifle Australia. These national bodies with their state counterparts concentrate on a range of sporting and political issues ranging from Olympic type competition through to conservation activities.\n\nThe Combined Firearms Council of Victoria (CFCV) was created in late 2002 and has been very active in the debate in Victoria. The CFCV ran advertisements in the 2002 Victorian state election and made voting recommendations at the 2002 and 2006 Victorian state elections, supporting specific candidates rather than political parties. Four of the six Labor MPs elevated to the front bench after the 2002 Victorian election were supported by the CFCV. A Firearms Consultative Committee, established in 2005 in Victoria, led to several changes to firearms legislation that benefited handgun users and gun collectors.\n\nThe Shooters, Fishers and Farmers Party is a political party that started in New South Wales claims to be \"the voice of hunters, shooters, fishers, rural and regional Australia and independent thinking Australians everywhere. Advocating for the politically incorrect, a voice of reason, science and conservation\". Its founder, John Tingle, served as an elected member of the upper house of New South Wales parliament, the Legislative Council, from 1995 until he retired in late 2006. the party holds two seats in the NSW Legislative Council, and one seat in the Legislative Assembly. In 2013 a Western Australian branch was formed and stood candidates in the state elections, winning a seat in the WA Legislative Council. Shooters and Fishers candidates won two upper house seats in the 2014 Victorian state election.\n\nThe Shooting Industry Foundation of Australia (SIFA) used $550,000 to launch an advertising campaign, named Flick’em, in an effort to urge voters to put both major parties last in ballot paper preferences in 2017. This campaign boosted votes for Pauline Hanson's One Nation and the Katter's Australian Party and achieved lowest major party votes in QLD history.\n\nThe Firearm Owners United is a new gun rights group which in 2017 made its first financial contribution to a campaign during the Queensland state election, donating $1,000 to Pauline Hanson's One Nation party and Katter's Australian Party.\n\nThe One Nation party in 1997–98 briefly gained national prominence and had strong support from shooters. A number of minor political parties such as the Liberal Democratic Party of Australia (who are currently represented by David Leyonhjelm in the Australian Senate), Outdoor Recreation Party, Country Alliance and Katter's Australian Party (represented by Bob Katter in the House of Representatives) have pro-shooter/pro-firearm platforms.\n\nIn 2015, Essential Research performed a poll regarding the support for Australia's gun laws. The demographic-normalised poll found that 6% of Australians thought the laws were \"too strong\", 40% thought \"about right\" and 45% thought \"not strong enough\".\n\nEssential Research repeated the poll a year later and found 6% thought the laws were too strong, 44% thought \"about right\" and 45% thought the laws were \"not strong enough\". It also found these views were consistent regardless of political party voting tendency for Labor, Coalition or Greens voters.\n\nIn March 2018, Victorian police were set to be armed with military-style semi-automatic rifles to combat terrorism and the increase in gun-related crime.\n\n"}
{"id": "42196819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42196819", "title": "History of the Workers' Party of Korea", "text": "History of the Workers' Party of Korea\n\nThe History of the Workers' Party of Korea (WPK) encompasses the period from 1949 onwards.\n\nAccording to North Korean sources, the origins of the Workers' Party of Korea can be traced to the Down-With-Imperialism Union, which was supposedly founded on October 17, 1926 and led by Kim Il-sung, then 14 years old. It is described in these sources as \"the first genuine revolutionary communist organization in Korea.\" The Workers' Party of North Korea was formed on 29 August 1946 from a merger between the Communist Party of North Korea and the New Democratic Party of Korea.\n\nOn June 30, 1949, the Workers Party of North Korea and the Workers' Party of South Korea merged, forming the Workers' Party of Korea, at a congress in Pyongyang. Both parties traced their origins to the Communist Party of Korea. Kim Il-sung of the Workers Party of North Korea became the party Chairman and Pak Hon-yong, who had been leader of the Workers Party of South Korea as well as the earlier Communist Party of Korea, and Alexei Ivanovich Hegay becoming deputy chairmen. There were a total of ten members of the first DPRK Politiburo. The other members were Yi Sung-yop, Kim Sam-yong, Kim Ch aek, Kim Tu-Bong, Pal Il-u, and Pak Chong-ae. Most were later purged by Kim Il-sung.\n\nHowever, official North Korean sources consider October 10, 1945 as the 'Party Foundation Day', citing a founding meeting of the 'North Korea Bureau of the Communist Party of Korea' founded under Soviet guidance. Foreign historians, however, dispute that date and claim that the meeting was in fact held on October 13. The party considers itself as a direct continuation of the North Korea Bureau and the Workers Party of North Korea, considering the two congresses of the Workers Party of North Korea as its own. This version of events can be seen as a move to downplay the importance of the communists from South Korea, who were purged in the 1950s.\n\nThe first five years of the WPK's rule were dominated by the Korean War. By October 1950, United Nations forces had occupied most of the DPRK and the WPK leadership had to flee to China. Many believe that if it had not been for Chinese intervention, the Korean communists would have been militarily defeated at that point. But in November, Chinese forces entered the war and threw the U.N. forces back, retaking Pyongyang in December and Seoul in January 1951. In March U.N. forces retook Seoul, and the front was stabilised along what eventually became the permanent \"Armistice Line\" of 1953. The WPK was able to re-establish its rule north of this line.\n\nIn preparing to build the party-state according to the tradition in other states of the communist bloc, Kim Il-sung quoted Joseph Stalin's statement that \"cadres decide everything\", and thrust the cadre policy into the forefont of issues needing attention. The first problem was that trained workers were in extraordinarily short supply. Kim himself realized the severity of this problem, saying in June 1946 that \"If we have about 500 trained cadres, then we can dispatch one hundred to each of the five provinces to solve the shortage problem. But, we do not have such trained cadres\". \n\nAccordingly, he started to establish schools for the educating of bureaucrats who would be appointed to the party military and cabinet. In February 1946, Pyongyang Institute opened its doors to students who would soon become relatively high-ranking military leaders, and three months later, the Training Institute for Security Officers and the Central Party School began educating military officers and party cadres respectively.\n\nAs the Workers' Party of Korea, and its two founding parties, had emerged through a series of mergers, it contained various competing factions. At the time of its foundation, the party was made up of four factions, the \"Soviet Koreans\" faction, the \"Domestic\" faction, the \"Yanan\" (or Chinese) faction and the \"Guerrilla\" faction.\n\nOnce the WPK was created there was a virtual parity between the four factions with the Yanan, Soviet and Domestic factions each having four representatives on the Politburo with the Guerrilla faction having three.\n\nIn the early years of the party, Kim Il-sung was the acknowledged leader, but he did not yet have absolute power, since it was necessary to balance off the interests of the various factions. To eliminate any threats to his position, he first moved against individual leaders who were potential rivals. He drove from power Alexei Ivanovich Hegay (also known as Hŏ Ka-i), leader of the Soviet faction, first demoting him during the Korean War in 1951 and then using him as a scapegoat for slow repairs of a water reservoir bombed by the Americans to drive him from power (and to an alleged suicide) in 1953. In part, it was possible for Kim to do this because the intervention of \"Chinese People's Volunteers\" in the war reduced the influence of both the USSR and the Soviet faction and allowed Kim Il-sung the room he needed to dispose of his main rival.\n\nKim Il-sung also attacked the leadership of the Yanan faction. When the North Koreans were driven to the Chinese border, Kim Il-sung needed a scapegoat to explain the military disaster and blamed Mu Chong, a leader of the Yanan faction and also a leader of the North Korean military. Mu Chong and a number of other military leaders were expelled from the party and Mu was forced to return to China where he spent the rest of his life. Kim Il-sung also removed Pak Il-u, the Minister of the Interior and reputedly the personal representative of Mao Zedong.\n\nThe sacking of Hegay, Mu and Pak reduced the influence of the Chinese and Soviet factions, but Kim Il-sung could not yet launch an all out assault on these factions because he would risk the intervention of Moscow and Beijing when he was still dependent on their support.\n\nAs the Korean War drew to a close, Kim Il-sung first moved against the Domestic faction. While the Soviet faction had the sponsorship of the Soviet Union, and the Yanan faction was backed by China, the Domestic faction had no external sponsor who would come to their aid, and was therefore in the weakest position. With the end of the Korean War, the usefulness of the Domestic faction in running guerilla and spy networks in South Korea came to an end. Former leaders of the Workers Party of South Korea were attacked at a December 1952 Central Committee meeting. In early 1953, rumours were spread that the \"southerners\" had been planning a coup. This led to the arrest and removal from power of Pak Hon-yong (who was foreign minister at the time) and Yi Sung Yop the minister of \"state control\" who was charged with \"spying on behalf of the United States\".\nIn August 1953, following the signing of the armistice that suspended the Korean War, Yi and eleven other leaders of the domestic faction were subjected to a show trial on charges of planning a military coup and sentenced to death. In 1955, Pak Hon-yong, the former leader of the WPSK and deputy chairman of the WPK, was put on trial on charges of having been a US agent since 1939, sabotage, assassination, and planning a coup. He was sentenced to death, although it is unclear if he was shot immediately or if his execution occurred some time in 1956.\n\nThe trials of Yi and Pak were accompanied by the arrest of other members and activists of the former SWPK, with defendants being executed or sent to forced labour in the countryside. The domestic faction was virtually wiped out, though a few individual members who had personally allied themselves to Kim Il-sung remained in positions of influence for several more years.\n\nKim Il-sung sent out preliminary signals in late 1955 and early 1956 that he was preparing to move against the Yanan and Soviet factions. The Twentieth Party Congress of the Soviet Communist Party was a bombshell with Nikita Khrushchev's Secret Speech denouncing Joseph Stalin and the inauguration of destalinisation. Throughout the Soviet bloc domestic Communist parties inaugurated campaigns against personality cults and the general secretaries who modelled themselves after Stalin were deposed throughout Eastern Europe.\n\nKim Il-sung was summoned to Moscow for six weeks in the summer of 1956 in order to receive a dressing down from Khrushchev, who wished to bring North Korea in line with the new orthodoxy. During Kim Il-sung's absence, Pak Chang Ok (the new leader of the Soviet faction after the suicide of Ho Ka Ai), Choe Chang Ik, and other leading members of the Yanan faction devised a plan to attack Kim Il-sung at the next plenum of the Central Committee and criticise him for not \"correcting\" his leadership methods, developing a personality cult, distorting the \"Leninist principle of collective leadership\" his \"distortions of socialist legality\" (i.e. using arbitrary arrest and executions) and use other Khrushchev-era criticisms of Stalinism against Kim Il-sung's leadership.\n\nKim Il-sung became aware of the plan upon his return from Moscow and responded by delaying the plenum by almost a month and using the additional time to prepare by bribing and coercing Central Committee members and planning a stage-managed response. When the plenum finally opened on August 30 Choe Chang-ik made a speech attacking Kim Il-sung for concentrating the power of the party and the state in his own hands as well as criticising the party line on industrialisation which ignored widespread starvation among the North Korean people. Yun Kong Hum attacked Kim Il-sung for creating a \"police regime\". Kim Il-sung's supporters heckled and berated the speakers rendering them almost inaudible and destroying their ability to persuade members. Kim Il-sung's supporters accused the opposition of being \"anti-Party\" and moved to expel Yun from the party. Kim Il-sung, in response, neutralised the attack on him by promising to inaugurate changes and moderate the regime, promises which were never kept. The majority in the committee voted to support Kim Il-sung and also voted in favour of repressing the opposition, expelling Choe and Pak from the Central Committee.\n\nSeveral leaders of the Yunan faction fled to China to escape the purges that followed the August plenum, while supporters of the Soviet faction and Yanan faction were rounded up. Though Kim Tu Bong, the leader of the Yanan faction and nominal President of North Korea, was not directly involved in the attempt on Kim, he was ultimately purged in 1958, accused of being the \"mastermind\" of the plot. Kim Tu Bong \"disappeared\" after his removal from power, and likely was either executed or died in prison.\n\nIn September 1956, a joint Soviet-Chinese delegation went to Pyongyang to \"instruct\" Kim Il-sung to cease any purge and reinstate the leaders of the Yanan and Soviet factions. A second plenum of the Central Committee, held on September 23, 1956, officially pardoned the leaders of the August opposition attempt and rehabilitated them, but in 1957 the purges resumed, and, by 1958, the Yanan faction had ceased to exist. Members of the Soviet faction, meanwhile, facing increased harassment, decided to return to the Soviet Union in increasing numbers. By 1961, the only faction left was Kim Il-sung's own guerrilla faction, along with members who had joined the WPK under Kim Il-sung's leadership and were loyal to him. In the 1961 Central Committee, there were only two members of the Soviet faction, three members of the Yanan faction and three members of the Domestic faction left out of a total Central Committee membership of 68. These individuals were personally loyal to Kim Il-sung and were trusted by him; however, by the late 1960s, even these individuals were almost all purged.\n\nOne likely reason for the failure of the Soviet and Yanan factions to depose Kim Il-sung was the nationalist view by younger members of the party who had joined since 1950 that the members of these factions were \"foreigners\" influenced by alien powers while Kim Il-sung was seen as a true Korean.\n\nAccording to Kim Il-sung’s biographer, Dae sook suh: \"His (Kim’s) long struggle to consolidate power was complete... There were no longer any factions to challenge his position, and, for the first time, no foreign armed forces were occupying the North\".\n\nUntil the 1960s, the regime in the DPRK was seen as an orthodox Communist one-party state, with power residing in the Communist Party. All industry was nationalised and all agriculture was collectivised on the Soviet model, and the party controlled this command economy at every level. All other political organisation was suppressed and civil society was extinguished. A pervasive political police apparatus suppressed all dissent. Even at this stage, there was a personality cult of Kim Il-sung, but it was usually assumed in the West that the DPRK was a Soviet satellite like Poland or East Germany though, in reality, this had stopped being the case after 1956.\n\nThe Sino-Soviet split helped Kim Il-sung take the Workers' Party of Korea on an independent path between Moscow and Beijing. The party and Kim Il-sung in particular were wary of de-stalinization and of Khrushchev's reforms. In the late 1950s, the DPRK began to increasingly emulate the People's Republic of China (PRC), launching its own version of the Great Leap Forward calling it the \"Chollima\" movement. The press did not mention the Sino-Soviet split at first. In 1961, Kim Il-sung signed a treaty of friendship and mutual cooperation with Zhou Enlai and then proceeded to sign a similar treaty with the Soviet Union. After 1962 and particularly after the Twenty-Second CPSU Party Congress in which Soviet leaders criticised Chinese leaders, the WPK began to side openly with the PRC not only on issues such as the personality cult and anti-revisionism but also against Khrushchev's theory of peaceful coexistence. Editorials began to appear in the press openly criticising the Soviet position and defending the Chinese and obliquely attacking Khrushchev. The WPK supported the PRC during its conflict with India in 1962 and denounced the USSR's \"capitulation\" in the Cuban missile crisis.\n\nThe Soviet Union responded by cutting off all aid to the DPRK, seriously damaging North Korea's industry and military capability. PRC did not have the resources to replace the Soviet aid and, after 1965, was embroiled in the chaos of the Cultural Revolution. Events in PRC shocked the WPK leadership and caused it to distance itself from PRC and criticise Mao's \"dogmatism\" and recklessness, even accusing the Chinese of adopting the \"Trotskyist theory of permanent revolution\", a serious heresy in the Communist world. The Chinese Red Guards began to attack Kim Il-sung and Korean domestic and foreign policy. After 1965, North Korea took a neutral stand in the Sino-Soviet conflict, backing away from its previous uncritical support of PRC.\n\nAlthough Kim Il-sung's regime emulated some of the slogans of the Mao Zedong's Cultural Revolution, Kim Il-sung remained wary of Chinese domination and never applied anything like the Cultural Revolution in North Korea. In the same year, DPRK forces captured the U.S.S. \"Pueblo\", an American spy ship, showing that Kim Il-sung was running his own version of the Cold War, independent of Soviet or Chinese tutelage.\n\nAfter 1956, Kim Il-sung was no longer a Soviet puppet and the DPRK moved away from being a Soviet satellite or \"people's democracy\". Nor did he trust the Chinese due to their suspected support of the Yanan faction's move against Kim Il-sung. Rather, he pursued an independent policy and initiated his Juche program of national self-reliance in order to diminish the influence of the USSR and China over domestic North Korean affairs. The program was officially launched in June 1966 (after the state visit of the Soviet Foreign Minister) as the \"program of national self-determination and Communist and Workers' Parties' non-interference\". By the late 1960s, the North Korean media was hailing the Juche ideology as being superior to Leninism and other foreign ideologies and \"burning loyalty\" to the \"Great Leader\" became a major ideological theme (the term \"Great Leader\" was first used in the early 1960s) and took the Stalinistic practice of the personality cult to new levels.\n\nWith the removal of the other factions, Kim Il-sung became the supreme leader of the DPRK. By 1960, Kim Il-sung had purged virtually all the members of the Yanan, Domestic, and Soviet factions through show trials, intimidation, and encouraging Soviet Koreans to return to the USSR, leaving the party to be dominated by his \"guerrilla comrades\" as well as young technocrats who had joined the party after its founding and were loyal to Kim Il-sung.\n\nIn 1972, the DPRK adopted a new constitution, under which an executive presidency was created, and Kim Il-sung became President as well as the WPK's General Secretary. Thereafter, Kim Il-sung's personality cult reached heights that made even Stalin and Mao appear modest by comparison. Kim Il-sung was credited with personal direction of every supposed achievement of the regime, his biography was rewritten to make him the founder and leader of the WPK from its inception, and a new ideology of Kim Il-sung's creation, \"Juche\" or self-reliance, replaced Marxism–Leninism as the regime's official ideology. All other WPK leaders remained completely anonymous, although Kim Il-sung's power in fact depended on the control of the Korean People's Army and the security forces by his loyal agent, Defence Minister Oh Jin-wu. Kim Jong-il explains in \"Socialism of Our Country is Socialism of Our Style as the Embodiment of the Juche Idea\", a speech made to the central committee of the WPK on December 27, 1990, the divorce with Marxism–Leninism. \"We could not literally accept the Marxist theory which had been advanced on the premises of the socio-historic conditions of the developed European capitalist countries, or the Leninist theory presented in the situation of Russia where capitalism was developed to the second grade. We had had to find a solution to every problem arising in the revolution ... from the standpoint of Juche\".\n\nThe practical effect of \"Juche\" was to seal the DPRK off from virtually all foreign trade, except to a limited extent with China and the Soviet Union. But, the economic reforms of Deng Xiaoping in China after 1978 meant that trade with the undeveloped centrally-planned economy of the DPRK held decreasing interest for China, while the fall of communism in the Soviet Union in 1991 completed the DPRK's isolation. This, added to the continuing high level of expenditure on armaments, led to a steadily mounting economic crisis from the 1980s onwards.\n\nKim Jong-il had been groomed to become his father's successor for a long time. In 1964, he was appointed Central Committee member, then promoted to Politburo member and designated successor to Kim Il-sung in 1974 by a Central Committee plenum. \n\nAfter Kim Jong-il assumed the position of party secretary in charge of organization and propaganda in September 1973, his involvement in party affairs enhanced their organizational strength and discipline. With his elevated position in the party, Kim Jong-il rigidly implemented two policies: an enhancement of the role of full-time party cadres in local and administrative units and a strengthening of party-life criticism in every unit of the workplace as well as in the party. This establishment of a strong disciplinarty tradition in the party contributed to the maintenance of social control. It has become an important foundation for the persistence of the existing authority structure centered on the father and the son. \n\nIn 1980, the WPK Congress elevated Kim Jong-il to senior positions and publicized his status as heir apparent. Until then, it seemed likely that Kim's successor would be either Oh Jin-wu or Prime Minister Kim Il (not related to Kim Il-sung). In fact, it seems that Kim Il-sung had always planned that his son would succeed him, and had been advancing him within the Army (the real source of power in the DPRK) since 1974. Kim Il was removed from office in 1976 and died in 1984, and Oh remained loyal to the Kim family. Well before Kim Il-sung's death in 1994, Kim Jong-il had become the day-to-day ruler of the country, and had promoted his own followers to key positions in the Army. Kim Jong-il's accession was followed by a round of purges in the WPK, in which some of his father's old followers were removed from office.\n\nWPK congresses and plenums became less and less frequent, and their deliberations less and less substantive. Part of the reason for the “subservience” of the delegates appears to be the significant turnover between congresses: between 41 and 72 percent of the members of Central Committees selected at each party congress were new to their positions.\n\nDespite the almighty status and power of the WPK, it has never functioned according to regulations, a fact that became even worse after Kim Il-Sung's death. A party congress has not been held since the sixth party congress in 1980. According to the Party Rules, a party congress is supposed to be held every five years. The plenum of the Central Committee has not been held since the 21st Plenum in December 1993. The plenum, which has the right to elect the General Secretary, was not held even when Kim Jong-il became the party's general secretary in October 1997. Instead Kim Jong-il was endorsed by both the Central Committee and the Central Military Commission on ground of petitions and letters from lower organizations. For the first time in the history of Workers' Party of Korea, a plenum also was not held before the first session of newly elected SPAs. It is also suspected that Secretariat has not held a meeting since Kim Il-sung's death, while the last known Politburo meeting before 2010 was held in 1994.\n\nIn the wake of the revision of the constitution in 1998, making the National Defense Commission the highest state body, there had been a dramatic reshuffling of the official leadership rankings. The elevation of the NDC to preeminent status placed Kim’s unique stamp on the North Korean regime through the creation of a quasi-wartime crisis management system.\n\nThe Party was given new prominence starting from 2007–2008: in 2007, the Administration Department was re-established with Chang Song-taek as director, and in 2009 Choe Yong-rim was appointed chief secretary of the Pyongyang Party Committee filling a 9-year vacancy.\n\nIn 2009, South Korea’s government released the latest constitution of North Korea which codified the prevailing ideology of party and government. It omitted all mention of communism. A press representative also explained to South Korean officials that communism is not considered viable \"as long as U.S. imperialism exists\".\n\nOn 26 June 2010, the Party Politburo called the 3rd Party Conference for early September; after an unexplained delay, the Conference was held on 28 September; it re-elected Kim Jong-il as Party General Secretary, renewed the Party Central Committee with Kim Jong-il's son Kim Jong-un as member, and adopted new Party Rules which eliminated the clause that a party congress must be convened every 5 years, increased the power of the Central Military Commission, and inserted a praise to Kim Jong-il in the preface.\n\nOn 28 September 2010, a Central Committee plenum (the first after 17 years) was held as well, renewing central authorities and appointing Kim Jong-un a vice-chairman of the Central Military Commission.\n\nOn 6 June 2011, North Korean press publicized a Politburo enlarged meeting, the first of this kind since the 1980s. The meeting was almost entirely focused on Kim Jong-il's recent visit to the People's Republic of China, adding further speculation on China's endorsement of Kim Jong-il's succession as well as signalling the DPRK's increasing interest for Chinese economic reforms.\n\nAfter Kim Jong-il died on 17 December 2011, North Korean elites moved to consolidate Kim Jong-un's position. He was declared to be in charge of the country as soon as the official report on Kim Jong-il's death was published on 19 December. On 26 December 2011, the official newspaper \"Rodong Sinmun\" hailed him as supreme leader of the party and the state. On 30 December, a meeting of the Politburo officially appointed him Supreme Commander of the Korean People's Army, after he was allegedly nominated for the position by Kim Jong-il himself in October 2011 (the anniversary of Kim Jong-il's assumption of general-secretaryship).\n\nDespite being not even a Politburo member, Kim Jong-un was nevertheless proclaimed to the unofficial position of supreme leader of the Workers' Party of Korea. Key posts as general secretary, chairman of the Central Military Commission, and Chairman of the National Defence Commission, as well as two seats in the five-member Politburo Presidium, remained vacant.\n\nAfter celebrations for Kim Jong-il's 70th anniversary (during which he was elevated to the rank of Taewonsu, usually translated as Grand Marshal or Generalissimo), on 18 February the Politburo announced the convening of the 4th Party Conference for mid-April 2012 (near the 100th birth anniversary of Kim Il-sung) \"to glorify the sacred revolutionary life and feats of Kim Jong Il for all ages and accomplish the Juche cause, the Songun revolutionary cause, rallied close around Kim Jong Un.\" Participants in the provincial party conferences endorsed the election of Kim Jong-un as a delegate to the 4th Party Conference. According to KCNA, provincial party conferences were held in Jagang, South Hwanghae, North Pyongan, and Kangwon and a city party conference was held in Rason (Rajin-Sonbong is one of three province-level cities). On 26 March 2012, Kim was elected a delegate to the 4th Party Conference by the party organization of the Korean People’s Army.\n\nAt the 4th Party Conference on 11 April, Kim Jong-il was declared to be the Eternal General Secretary and Kim Jong-un was elected to the newly created post of First Secretary of the Workers' Party of Korea, as well as Politburo Presidium member. The Conference also proclaimed Kimilsungism-Kimjongilism \"as the only guiding idea of the party\".\n"}
{"id": "570478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=570478", "title": "Housing cooperative", "text": "Housing cooperative\n\nA housing cooperative, co-op, or housing company (especially in Finland), is a legal entity, usually a cooperative or a corporation, which owns real estate, consisting of one or more residential buildings; it is one type of housing tenure. Housing cooperatives are a distinctive form of home ownership that have many characteristics that differ from other residential arrangements such as single family home ownership, condominiums and renting.\n\nThe corporation is membership-based, with membership granted by way of a share purchase in the cooperative. Each shareholder in the legal entity is granted the right to occupy one housing unit. A primary advantage of the housing cooperative is the pooling of the members' resources so that their buying power is leveraged, thus lowering the cost per member in all the services and products associated with home ownership.\n\nAnother key element in some forms of housing cooperatives (but not Finnish housing companies, for example) is that the members, through their elected representatives, screen and select who may live in the cooperative, unlike any other form of home ownership. \n\nHousing cooperatives fall into two general tenure categories: non-ownership (referred to as non-equity or continuing) and ownership (referred to as equity or strata). In non-equity cooperatives, occupancy rights are sometimes granted subject to an occupancy agreement, which is similar to a lease. In equity cooperatives, occupancy rights are sometimes granted by way of the purchase agreements and legal instruments registered on the title. The corporation's articles of incorporation and bylaws as well as occupancy agreement specifies the cooperative's rules.\n\nThe word \"cooperative\" is also used to describe a non-share capital co-op model in which fee-paying members obtain the right to occupy a bedroom and share the communal resources of a house that is owned by a cooperative organization. Such is the case with student cooperatives in some college and university communities across the United States.\n\nAs a legal entity, a co-op can contract with other companies or hire individuals to provide it with services, such as a maintenance contractor or a building manager. It can also hire employees, such as a manager or a caretaker, to deal with specific things that volunteers may prefer not to do or may not be good at doing, such as electrical maintenance. However, as many housing cooperatives strive to run self-sufficiently, as much work as possible is completed by its members.\n\nIn non-equity cooperatives and in limited equity cooperatives, a shareholder in a co-op does not own real estate, but a share of the legal entity that does own real estate. Co-operative ownership is quite distinct from condominiums where people own individual units and have little say in who moves into the other units. Because of this, most jurisdictions have developed separate legislation, similar to laws that regulate companies, to regulate how co-ops are operated and the rights and obligations of shareholders.\n\nEach resident or resident household has membership in the co-operative association. In non-equity cooperatives, members have occupancy rights to a specific suite within the housing co-operative as outlined in their \"occupancy agreement\", or \"proprietary lease\", which is essentially a lease. In ownership cooperatives, occupancy rights are transferred to the purchaser by way of the title transfer.\n\nSince the housing cooperative holds title to all the property and housing structures, it bears the cost of maintaining, repairing and replacing them. This relieves the member from the cost and burden of such work. In that sense, the housing cooperative is like the landlord in a rental setting. However, another hallmark of cooperative living is that it is nonprofit, so that the work is done at cost, with no profit motive involved.\n\nIn some cases, the co-op follows Rochdale Principles where each shareholder has only one vote. Most cooperatives are incorporated as limited stock companies where the number of votes an owner has is tied to the number of shares owned by the person. Whichever form of voting is employed it is necessary to conduct an election among shareholders to determine who will represent them on the board of directors (if one exists), the governing body of the co-operative. The board of directors is generally responsible for the business decisions including the financial requirements and sustainability of the co-operative. Although politics vary from co-op to co-op and depend largely on the wishes of its members, it is a general rule that a majority vote of the board is necessary to make business decisions.\n\nIn larger co-ops, members of a co-op typically elect a board of directors from amongst the shareholders at a general meeting, usually the annual general meeting. In smaller co-ops, all members sit on the board.\n\nA housing cooperative's board of directors is elected by the membership, providing a voice and representation in the governance of the property. Rules are determined by the board, providing a flexible means of addressing the issues that arise in a community to assure the members' peaceful possession of their homes.\n\nA housing cooperative is normally \"de facto\" non-profit, since usually most of its income comes from the rents paid by its residents (if in a formal corporation, then shareholders), who are invariably its members. There is no point in creating a deliberate surplus—except for operational requirements such as setting aside funds for replacement of assets—since that simply means that the rents paid by members are set higher than the expenses. (Note, however, that it's quite possible for a housing co-op to own other revenue-generating assets, such as a subsidiary business which could produce surplus income to offset the cost of the housing, but in those cases the housing rents are usually reduced to compensate for the additional revenue.)\n\nNew co-ops are often founded by the builder, who resigns from the co-op when all the shares have been sold. It is relatively difficult to start a housing co-op from scratch because if the idea is, for instance, to build a building or group of buildings to house the members, this usually takes a significant mortgage loan for which a financial institution will want assurances of responsibility. It may also take a year or more for the members to organize the design and construction, as well as time and foresight to establish even basic organizational policies. It is rare that these kinds of skills of organization are available in a random group of people who often have pressures on their existing housing. It may be somewhat easier to organize a group of closely related housing units. This opportunity may arise, for example, if an existing apartment building's owner is thinking about selling it. \n\nIn the lifecycle of buildings, the replacement of assets (capital repairs) requires significant funds which can be obtained through a variety of ways: assessments on current owners; sales of Treasury Stock (former rental units) to new shareholders; draw downs of reserves; unsecured loans; operating surpluses; fees on the sales of units between shareholders and new and increases to existing mortgages.\n\nThere are housing co-ops of the rich and famous: John Lennon, for instance, lived in The Dakota, a housing co-operative,\nand most apartments in New York City that are owned rather than rented are held through a co-operative\nrather than via a condominium arrangement.\n\nThere are two main types of housing co-operative share pricing: market rate and limited equity. With market rate, the share price is allowed to rise on the open market and shareholders may sell at whatever price the market will bear when they want to move out. In many ways market rate is thus similar financially to owning a condominium, with the difference being that often the co-op may carry a mortgage, resulting in a much higher monthly fee paid to the co-op than would be so in a condominium. The purchase price of a comparable unit in the co-op is typically much lower, however.\n\nWith limited equity, the co-op has rules regarding pricing of shares when sold. The idea behind limited equity is to maintain affordable housing. A sub-set of the limited equity model is the no-equity model, which looks very much like renting, with a very low purchase price (comparable to a rental security deposit) and a monthly fee in lieu of rent. When selling, all that is re-couped is that very low purchase price.\n\nHousing co-ops in Canada have many different organizational forms. In Ontario, there are co-ownership, equity and occupant-run co-ops. In Alberta, housing co-ops are either non-equity (also referred to as \"continuing co-ops\") and ownership (also referred to as \"strata-title co-ops\"). Given that each Province has different legislation under which co-operative housing communities are incorporated and organized, descriptions of the different ownership housing co-op forms pertain often only to the Province in which they exist.\n\nNon-equity continuing housing co-operatives exist in all provinces and territories and share common features. They can be any housing form: single detached, duplex, town-home and apartment. Their main common denominator is that once built and occupied, the co-op continues to own 100% of the units and each member/shareholder is entitled to occupy a home on the basis of some form of contract or housing agreement. Members pay a monthly fee which covers all of the co-op's costs including mortgage payments, taxes, operating costs and building replacement reserve fund allocations.\n\nIn Alberta, ownership co-ops were introduced in 1987 with the building of a twin high-rise tower development in Edmonton (Riverwind Strata Title Housing Co-operative). Subsequently ownership co-ops have been developed and built in other urban centres such as Calgary, Fort Saskatchewan, Canmore and Banff. The individual units within these co-op developments are sub-divided by using the strata title provision of the Land Titles Act, thus creating individual three-dimensional strata lots. This strata sub-division is registered at Land Titles, thus creating \"air\" lots which have the same properties as more commonly known two-dimensional land lots. In this fashion, co-op members can purchase their individual units and can register a mortgage on title. Like the continuing co-op's, ownership co-op's can be any housing form. Strata lots in Alberta are not to be confused with strata lots in British Columbia.\n\nCo-ownership co-ops are generally older apartment buildings, incorporated before the Ontario Condominium Act, 1973 came into existence, where shareholders each own one voting share in the corporation that owns the building and have a registered right to occupy individual units as described on their share certificate. Most of these types of co-ops date from the thirties, forties and fifties and are located in the City of Toronto. They are similar to condominiums, in that units may be bought and sold by private sale or on the open market. Until relatively recently, these units tended to be bought by older people with home equity who could buy the unit outright, as it was difficult to get a mortgage against these units. However, a number of Ontario credit unions are now offering limited financing, provided that that individual co-op corporations meet their fiscal standards, making these units affordable housing options for younger buyers. Incoming owners must be approved by the building's Board of Directors, and agree to abide by building by-laws and Occupancy Agreements.\n\nEquity co-ops are buildings in which individuals purchase a percentage share of the building and the land on which it is built tied to the square footage of their unit; all owners own the building collectively, with exclusive rights to occupy their own unit. More credit unions will offer financing against them than against co-ownerships. They are a relatively new form of construction, designed to encourage owner occupancy by having the building's corporation hold back a percentage of the unit's share equity to ensure owner occupancy. This legal structure is used as an alternative to condominium registration, either when the government will not allow conversion of an existing apartment building to a condominium, or to avoid the expense and difficulty of doing so.\n\nThen there are co-ops that provide all the privileges of ownership except for the right to make (or lose) money on a primary residence and are run by the people who live there.\n\nThe federal and provincial governments in Canada developed legislation in the 1970s that assisted new housing co-ops by providing start-up funding and financing through mortgages insured by the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation (CMHC), a federal government agency. The government simultaneously began to encourage the development of co-operative development resource groups to contract with fledgling boards of directors of housing co-ops to develop co-operatives in existing multi-residential properties, in turnkey buildings or buildings designed and constructed by architects and builders with which the board contracted to deliver the service. Supervised by the board, the resource groups marketed the units to suitable members, educated them about their rights and obligations as co-operators, and established a management structure which usually included co-op employees or property management companies. Resource groups helped in forming initial policies and holding the organization together as the co-operative was developed and occupied.\n\nThe federal government tied its loan assistance to requirements that these housing co-ops provide a percentage of their units, usually at least 15 to 20 per cent, for what are termed income-tested residents. These people voluntarily provide information to the co-op on a confidential basis about their gross income, and their monthly housing charge (rent)is then calculated according to a formula. If the calculated charge is less than the market rent of the units, then the federal government, through another formula, would provide funding to those units to bring their unit revenue up to the market rate. This produced mixed-income co-op housing, in which relatively well-off people lived side-by-side with relatively low-income people and worked with them on committees. This often had the ripple effect of improving the financial health of those less well-off.\n\nDepending on one's political point of view, such government payments for offsetting the housing charge could be considered a subsidy of the low-income members, or a contractual business arrangement between the government and the co-op, which helps to stabilize revenue to the co-op in exchange for accomplishing a social goal for the government for a specific period. This dichotomy is typical of the fact that a housing co-op is somewhere between a private business corporation and a social agency, and where one places it depends on one's viewpoint—and the collective viewpoint of each housing co-op. Some observers would now simply categorize these co-op as a form of social enterprise.\n\nPolitical will dissipated in Canada in the 1990s, however, as other issues occupied politicians and financial belt-tightening by the governments reduced the funds available for the mortgages. In 2004 and 2005, however, the political winds shifted back towards the idea of developing more low-income housing. However, not-for-profit housing co-operatives are committed to the mixed-income concept and have not been able to make much use of the few opportunities that have come available in recent years. Also, the term of many of the government agreements concerning funding for housing subsidies are coming to an end, provoking a debate in individual co-ops and the co-op movement on the extent to which co-ops should continue to be mixed-income forms of housing.\n\nIn Canada, there are number of secondary and tertiary associations of housing co-operatives. The major national organization is the Co-operative Housing Federation of Canada (CHF Canada). Most provinces have similar organizations for their area, but many are stand-alone members of the CHF Canada, as opposed to being branches of it. Each such organization charges its member co-operatives a fee based on the number of housing units in the co-op to pay for staff to do its work. This includes advocacy to governments, setting up self-help funding and the like. These organizations do not act for individual members, and do not give members advice when the member encounters problems with the Board of their co-op. In most jurisdictions there are no organizations for members of housing co-operatives, in contrast with tenants in a traditional landlord-and-tenant relationship, who can be assisted by various tenant advocacy groups.\n\nIn Ontario, the eviction of members of a housing co-operative is governed by special section of legislation set out in the Co-operative Corporations Act. \nPrior to a formal hearing to terminate a member's occupancy some co-operatives issue a \"Notice of Concern\" to request the member to attend a Board of Directors meeting to attempt to resolve an issue of arrears or other behaviour contravening the co-operative's Occupancy By-law.\n\nIf the Board of Directors of the co-operative cannot resolve the member issue, which is a cause for possible termination of occupancy rights, it can pass a motion to send the member a notice to appear requiring the member to attend at a Board meeting at which the termination (eviction) of that member's occupancy will be considered. If the Board votes to terminate an occupancy (evict), the member has a right of appeal to the membership as a whole. In order to enforce the eviction, the Board must bring an application to a judge of the Superior Court, on which occasion the member has the opportunity to present his/her case to the judge; the judge considers whether the eviction process was conducted fairly and in accordance with due process, and has a residual discretion to refuse the eviction should the judge consider it fair to do so, notwithstanding the decision of the Board. Sometimes this hearing is conducted like a trial, with oral evidence from both sides, while at other times it is conducted based only on written documents submitted to the court; the practice varies from judge-to-judge and courthouse to courthouse, and there is no consensus on the proper procedure or what right a member has to be heard. This process is different from evictions of rental tenants, which proceed in Ontario before a specialized tribunal and in which the tenant is always entitled to an oral hearing. The standard of deference that judges should show to the decisions of Boards is a controversial and unresolved issue in the law, with various cases taking seemingly inconsistent positions on the issue. As of 2012 new provincial legislation in Ontario will allow housing co-operatives to apply to a special tribunal to obtain a \"writ of possession\" to evict a member from their unit.\n\nA co-operative housing community can take many forms: a traditional apartment building, scattered single family homes, townhouses or it can be the basis of an intentional community or a \"living co-op\". Student housing co-operatives also can be found in many parts of Canada including Kingston, Guelph, Waterloo and Toronto, Ontario; New Westminster, British Columbia; Edmonton, Alberta; Winnipeg, Manitoba; Montreal, Quebec; and Fredericton, New Brunswick.\n\n\"Building co-operatives\" (\"self-build housing co-operatives\" in British parlance, which distinguishes them from worker co-operatives in the building trade) are formed by members who co-operate to build their homes but own their houses on completion. Some co-ops continue to own common elements such as roads, parks, water systems, etc. Building co-ops were extremely popular across Canada from the 1930s to the 1960s. Father Jimmy Tompkins helped to pioneer this concept at Tompkinsville at Reserve Mines on Cape Breton Island in Nova Scotia.\n\nIn Finland holding shares in a housing company is a common form of real estate and home ownership. Owning an apartment in Finland usually means owning shares in a housing company; ownership of a certain set of shares in turn confers the right to use a certain part of the building owned by the company.\n\nExcept for a very limited number of co-ops that follow the strict Rochdale Principles of one vote, all Finnish housing cooperatives are incorporated as (non-profit) limited-liability companies (, ), where one share usually represents one square meter of the apartment, but may represent the whole apartment. Housing companies are regulated by Finnish law as a particular type of corporation.\n\nHousing company shares typically trade on the open market, most often through real estate agents. No board approval is needed to buy shares. In some older companies existing share holders have the right of pre-emption, i.e. the right to buy the shares at the set market price.\n\nThere is usually no requirement for share holders to live in the co-operative. Owning apartments for rent is a common form of saving and private investment. There may be provisions against owning shares for more than one apartment in the same co-op.\n\nThe first housing cooperatives were built around 1900, many of them in the Helsinki neighborhood of Katajanokka, in the national romantic Jugend style. Initially many co-ops were set up by the future members themselves, often workers or artisans in the same trade. By the 1920s co-op founding was the business of professional real estate developers. After World War II nationwide non-profit developer organizations were formed and a system of government provided loans (ARAVA) was introduced. Sale of shares in housing companies with state loans were restricted by limited equity rules for 50 years, the price of the shares was limited by an index.\n\nThe Finnish model of the housing company was also the basis of the modern U.S. co-ops, as the first cooperative, the Finnish Home Building Association in Finntown (Brooklyn, New York), was started in 1918 by Finnish immigrants.\n\nIn 2013, the opening of \"La Maison des Babayagas\", an innovative housing co-op in Paris, gained world-wide attention. It was formed as a self-help community and built with financial assistance from the municipal government, specifically for female senior citizens. Located in the Paris suburb of Montreuil after many years of planning, it looks like any other apartment building. The senior citizens stay out of nursing homes, by staying active, alert, and assisting one another.\n\nThe purpose of the Baba Yaga Association is to create and develop an innovative lay residence for aging women that is: (1) self-managed, without hierarchy and without supervision; (2) united collective, with regard to finances as well as daily life; (3) citizen civic-minded, through openness to the community /city and through mutual interaction, engaging in its political, cultural and social life in a spirit of participatory democracy; (4) ecological in all aspects of life, in conformity with the values and actions expressed in the Charter of Living of the House of Babayagas.\n\nGenerally, the association's activities are tied to the purpose above, in particular the development of a popular entity called the University of Knowledge of the Elderly (UNISAVIE: Université du savoir des vieux), and the initiation of a movement to promote other living places that are organized into similar networks.\n\nThe community charter sets out expectations for privacy. Each apartment is self-contained. Monthly meetings assure the optimal routines of the building and ensures that each person may participate fully and with complete liberty of expression. Plans set out the routine intervention of a mediator who could help get to the bottom of the causes of eventual conflicts in order to allow for their resolution.\n\nThe success of the Paris co-op inspired several Canadian grassroots groups to adopt similar values in senior housing initiatives; these values include autonomy and self-management, solidarity and mutual aid, civic engagement, and ecological responsibility.\n\nIn the Industrialisation in the 19th century there were many housing cooperatives founded in Germany. Presently, there are over 2,000 housing cooperatives with over two million apartments and over three million members in Germany. The public housing cooperatives are organised in the GdW Bundesverband deutscher Wohnungs- und Immobilienunternehmen (The Federal association of German housing and real estate enterprise registered associations).\n\nIn India most 'flats' are owned outright. i.e. the title to each individual flat is separate. There is usually a governing body/society/association to administer maintenance and other building needs. These are comparable to the Condominium Buildings in the USA. The laws governing the building, its governing body and how flats within the building are transferred differ from state to state.\n\nCertain buildings are organized as \"Cooperative Housing Societies\" where one actually owns a share in the Cooperative rather than the flat itself. This structure was very popular in the past but has become less common in recent times. Most states have separate laws governing Cooperative Housing Societies.\n\nIn the Netherlands there are two very different types of organization that could be considered a housing cooperative:\n\nA \"housing corporation\" (\"woningcorporatie\") is a nonprofit organization dedicated to building and maintaining housing for rent for people with lower income. The first housing corporations started in the second half of the 19th century as small cooperative associations. The first such association in the world, \"VAK\" (\"association for the working class\") was founded in 1852 in Amsterdam. Between 2.4 and 2.5 million apartments in the Netherlands are rented by the housing corporations, i.e. more than 30% of the total of household dwellings (apartments and houses).\n\nA \"(house) owners' association\" (\"Vereniging van Eigenaren\", VvE) is by Dutch law established wherever there are separately owned apartments in one building. The members are legally owners of their own apartment, but have to cooperate in the association for the maintenance of the building as a whole.\n\nIn the Philippines, a \"tenant-owner's association\" is often used as a means to buy new flats. When the cooperative is created, it takes the major part of the loan needed to buy the property. These loans will then be paid off during a fixed periods of years (typically 20-30), and once this is done, the cooperative is dispersed and the flats are transformed into condominiums.\n\nA \"tenant-owner's association\" (Swedish: \"bostadsrättsförening\", Norwegian: \"borettslag\", Danish: \"andelsboligforening\") is a legal term used in the Scandinavian countries (Sweden, Denmark, and Norway) for a type of joint ownership of property in which the whole property is owned by a co-operative association, which in its turn is owned by its members. Each member holds a share in the association that is proportional to the area of his apartment. Members are required to have a tenant-ownership, which represents the apartment, and in most cases live permanently at the address. There are some legal differences between the countries, mainly concerning the conditions of ownership.\n\nTenant-owner's associations were established during the 19th century and were originally a United Kingdom-based concept (building societies). The market price of existing tenant-ownership shares is often very high, normally much higher than the original stake price.\n\nIn Sweden, 16% of the population lives in apartments in housing cooperatives, while 25% live in rented apartments (more common among young adults and immigrants) and 50% live in private one-family houses (more common among families with children), the remainder living in other forms such as student dormitories or elderly homes.\n\nMembership in a housing cooperative (\"bostadsrättsförening\") is granted to owners of shares in the association, and gives right (\"bostadsrätt\") to inhabit the apartment corresponding to the share for an unlimited time. Shares can be bought and sold on the open real estate market. This is one of the main forms of home ownership in the country, and a membership in a housing cooperative is generally held to be the same thing as owning (as opposed to renting) an apartment. The most usual physical/legal form is a block of flats owned freehold by a cooperative.\n\nEach housing cooperative has their own bylaws. The members hold annual meetings in the housing cooperative, in which they elect a board of directors that take on the responsibility of managing the cooperation during the upcoming year. In most normal-sized cooperatives the board members are recruited among the inhabitants. The board sets the monthly fee, secures proper administrative procedures, keeps the property in good condition, and may initiate large renovation projects when necessary. The board is also involved when a member sells his share of the co-op to someone else, as the board has to make decisions on allowing the exit of old members and the entry of new members, according to the bylaws (with some exceptions, e.g., the applicant’s nationality, income, or wealth are not valid grounds to refuse entry). The board is also involved when individual members want to initiate large renovation projects, or rent out their apartment to a non-member.\n\nThe housing cooperative is a special legal entity, regulated in Swedish law. It has the same obligations of bookkeeping and issuing annual reports as companies and it can take mortgages in the property if needed. In addition, each member may also take mortgages in his \"bostadsrätt\" in order to finance his acquisition of it. The monthly fee paid by the members to the cooperative is intended to cover the operational and financial expenditures of the cooperative. The financial situation of the Swedish cooperatives vary a lot, and on rare occasions cooperatives may go bankrupt. If bankruptcy occurs, the property is sold and the remaining assets are shifted out to the members (who may stay on as tenants or try to form a new cooperative).\n\nIn existing properties, tenants may form a housing cooperative together, and then make an offer to the owner to buy the property. When such a cooperative has been formed, it automatically becomes the first prospective buyer should the owner desire to sell. The acquisition is financed by a combination of equity (i.e. the 'stakes' paid by the members) and bank loans.\n\nIn properties intended to be owned by housing cooperatives from the start, the construction company (which is either a non-profit association such as HSB, Riksbyggen, or SBC; or a for-profit developer such as PEAB, Veidekke, or Skanska) normally forms a cooperative when the building is erected, and then sells the different apartments (i.e., their shares in the co-op) at fixed prices. When all apartments are sold, the new members take over the responsibility for the property and elect their own board of directors.\n\nIn Switzerland 5.1% of all housing units are in cooperatives. The Schweizerischer Verband für das Wohnungswesen (Swiss cooperative housing federation) represents around 1,500 housing cooperatives with about 160,000 housing units.\n\nHousing co-operatives are uncommon in the UK, making up about 0.1% of housing stock.\n\nMost are based in urban areas and consist of affordable shared accommodation where the members look after the property themselves. Waiting lists can be very long due to the rarity of housing co-operatives. In some areas the application procedure is integrated into the council housing application system. The laws differ between England and Scotland. The Confederation of Co-operative Housing provides information on housing cooperatives in the United Kingdom and has published a guide on setting them up. The Shelter website provides information on housing and has information specific to England and Scotland.\n\nThe Catalyst Collective provides information about starting co-operatives in the UK and explains the legal structure of a housing coop. Radical Routes offers a guide on how to set up a housing co-operative.\n\nFactors of raising cost of living for students and quality of accommodation have led to a drive for Student Housing Co-operatives within the UK inspired by the existing North American Student Housing Cooperatives and their work through North American Students of Cooperation. Edinburgh Student Housing Co-operative and Birmingham Student Housing Co-operative opened in 2014 and Sheffield Student Housing Co-operative in 2015. All existing Student Housing Co-operatives are members of Students for Cooperation.\n\nIn the United States, housing co-ops are usually categorized as corporations or LLCs and are found in abundance from Madison, Wisconsin to the Greater New York metropolitan area. There are also a number of cooperative and mutual housing projects still in operation across the US that were the result of the purchase of federal defense housing developments by their tenants or groups of returning war veterans and their families. These developments include seven of the eight middle-class housing projects built by the US Government between 1940-42 under the auspices of the Mutual Ownership Defense Housing Division of the Federal Works Agency. There are many regional housing cooperative associations, such as the Midwest Association of Housing Cooperatives, which is based in Michigan and serves the Midwest region, covering Ohio, Michigan, Indiana, Illinois, Wisconsin, Minnesota, and more.\n\nThe National Association of Housing Cooperatives (NAHC) represents all cooperatives within the United States who are members of the organization. This organization is a nonprofit, national federation of housing cooperatives, mutual housing associations, other resident-owned or controlled housing, professionals, organizations, and individuals interested in promoting the interests of cooperative housing communities. NAHC is the only national cooperative housing organization, and aims to support and educate existing and new cooperative housing communities as the best and most economical form of homeownership.\n\nNASCO, or North American Students of Cooperation, is an organization founded in 1968 that has helped organized cooperative living for students. With a presence in over 100 towns and cities across North America, NASCO has provided tens of thousands of students with sustainable housing.\n\nCooperatives have a long history in Metropolitan New York – in November 1882, \"Harper's Magazine\" describes several cooperative apartment buildings already in existence, with plans to build more – and can be found throughout New York City, Westchester County, which borders the city to the north, and towns in New Jersey that are immediately across the Hudson River from Manhattan, such as Fort Lee, Edgewater, or Weehawken.\n\nApartment buildings and multiple-family housing make up a more significant share of the housing stock in the New York City area than in most other U.S. cities, and the cooperative form of ownership has dominated over the condominium form. Reasons suggested to explain why cooperatives are relatively more common than condominiums in the New York City area are:\n\n\nMost of the housing cooperatives in the Greater New York area were converted to that status during the 1980s; generally they were large buildings built between the 1920s and 1950s that a single landlord or corporation owned and rented out that became unprofitable as rental properties. To encourage individual ownership of units, the initial buyers of units (buying from the owner of the entire building) did not have to be approved by a board. Also, the rental tenants living in the building at the time of the conversion were usually given an option to buy at a discount. If the tenants were rent controlled, the law usually protects them by allowing them to stay as renters and the unit may not be occupied by a purchaser until said tenant dies or moves out. Many of these buildings, especially in Manhattan, are actually quite luxurious and exclusive; many celebrities live in them and some famous people are even rejected by co-op boards. In the 1990s and 2000s some rental buildings in the Chicago, Washington, D.C., and Miami-Fort Lauderdale-West Palm Beach areas went through a similar conversion process, though not to the degree of New York. \n\nMany of the cooperatives originally built as co-ops were sponsored by trade unions, such as the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America. One of the largest projects was Cooperative Village in Lower East Side of Manhattan. The United Housing Foundation was set up in 1951 and built Co-op City in The Bronx, designed by architect Herman Jessor. One of the first subsidized, fixed-value cooperatives was Morningside Gardens in Manhattan's Morningside Heights.\n\nAnother dynamic also contributed to the large number of cooperatives established in the 1980s and 1990s in New York City – in this case by low- and moderate-income tenant groups. In the 1970s, many New York City private landlords were struggling to maintain their aging properties in the face of high interest rates, redlining, white flight and rising fuel costs. The period also saw some landlord-induced arson to obtain insurance proceeds and widespread non-payment of real estate taxes – over 20% of multi-family residential properties were in arrears in the mid-1970s. In 1977, the city passed Local Law #45, which allowed the city to begin foreclosure proceedings after just one year of non-payment of taxes, not three, resulting in the takeover of thousands of buildings, many of them occupied, by the city of New York through a legal action known as an in rem foreclosure. In September 1978, the city's housing agency, the New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development (HPD), created a series of new housing programs designed to give building residents and community groups control and eventual ownership of in rem buildings.\n\nThe Urban Homesteading Assistance Board (UHAB), established in 1974, began to assist residents of these buildings to manage, rehabilitate and acquire their buildings, and form limited-equity housing co-operatives. Working with the city's housing agency, its existing loan programs and the power to dispose of abandoned property to non-profit organizations, as well as the state laws governing the establishment of co-operatives, UHAB was able to provide low-income people with the tools – seed money, legal advice, architectural plans, bookkeeping training – to build and run limited-equity housing co-operatives. Through a long-standing contract with the city to provide training and technical assistance to residents of buildings in the Tenant Interim Lease (TIL) Program, UHAB has worked with more than 1,600 coops, preserving over 30,000 units of affordable housing.\n\nSome cooperatives in New York City do not own the land upon which their building is situated. These are known as \"Land Lease Buildings\" and often have significant drawbacks for cooperative owners.\n\nStudent cooperatives provide housing and dining services to those who attend specific educational institutions. Some notable groups include Berkeley Student Cooperative, Santa Barbara Housing Cooperative and the Oberlin Student Cooperative Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "50974856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50974856", "title": "Housing voucher", "text": "Housing voucher\n\nA housing voucher is a voucher that can be spent on rented housing, such as Section 8 public housing in the United States, along with universal housing vouchers. The book \"Evicted\" advocates that the U.S. government issue housing vouchers to families below a certain income threshold so that they pay no more than 30 percent of their income on housing.\n"}
{"id": "40277919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40277919", "title": "How to Lose Your Virginity", "text": "How to Lose Your Virginity\n\nHow to Lose Your Virginity is an American documentary film directed by Therese Shechter and distributed by Women Make Movies. The film examines how the concept of virginity shapes the sexual lives of young women and men through the intersecting forces of history, politics, religion and popular culture. It premiered at DOC NYC, a New York City documentary festival, on November 17, 2013.\n\n\"How to Lose Your Virginity\" explores the concept of virginity from historical origins of the word, virgin, to the modern day definitions perpetuated in popular culture. The film takes a critical look at how virginity is ‘restored’ through hymenoplasty, fetishized by pornography, and celebrated at purity balls. Linking virginity culture to commerce, the film follows Natalie Dylan's virginity auction and the sales of artificial hymen on the internet. Shechter also visits the set of \"Barely Legal\" and discusses the success of the \"virginity porn\" genre. \"How to Lose Your Virginity\" questions the effectiveness of the Abstinence-only sex education movement and observes how sexuality continues to define a young woman’s morality and self-worth.\nThe meaning and necessity of virginity as a social construct is also examined through narration and interviews with notable sexuality experts, such as: former Surgeon General Dr. Joycelyn Elders, \"Scarleteen\" creator and editor Heather Corinna, historian Hanne Blank, author Jessica Valenti, and comprehensive sex education advocate Shelby Knox.\n\nThe film was directed by Therese Shechter, whose production company Trixie Films is based in Brooklyn. Working with Producer Lisa Esselstein, \"How to Lose Your Virginity\" was shot over several years in the U.S. and Canada. Other films produced by Trixie Films include the documentary feature \"I Was A Teenage Feminist\" and the documentary shorts \"How I Learned to Speak Turkish\" and \"#slutwalknyc\".\n\nShechter was inspired to make the film because of the growing abstinence until marriage movement and her own experiences as an older virgin. While making the film, Shechter became engaged and incorporated trying on white wedding dresses into the film as a way of looking at how the wedding industry sells virginity.\n\nOver the course of the film's production, its transmedia companion, \"The V-Card Diaries\" has crowd-sourced over 200 stories about what the site calls \"sexual debuts and deferrals.\" It was exhibited at The Kinsey Institute's 8th Annual Juried Art Show, the exhibit's first interactive piece.\n\nSoraya Chemaly wrote in the \"Huffington Post\", \"Virginity is a powerful and malleable concept, as evidenced by the teenagers in Therese Shechter's smart, funny and provoking documentary.\" Leigh Kolb of Bitch Flicks said that \"There's no anger, there's no judgment…Shechter’s ability to teach, dismantle, expose and explore is remarkable. The audience is left with newfound knowledge with which they can criticize myths of virginity in our culture. However, the audience is also left with respect for everyone’s stories. When a documentary can do that, it succeeds in a big way.\"\n\nIn the \"Jakarta Globe\", Paul Freelend wrote that \"her work to highlight what she calls the 'virginity culture' and the misconceptions surrounding it may resonate as loudly in Indonesia and other developing countries as in the United States.\" Basil Tsoikos, programmer for the Sundance Film Festival and DOC NYC, in What (not) to doc remarked that \"Shechter seems like the perfect filmmaker to tackle the complexities around virginity. It’s a topic that far too many people are obsessed about – probably for all the wrong reasons – so the film is sure to stimulate interest and provoke heated debate.\"\n\nJ. Maureen Henderson of Forbes.com said that Shechter's work \"tackles one of the last taboos in our culture’s discussion of sex – the deliberate decision not to participate in it.” Lena Corner of \"The Guardian\" wrote that \"It’s refreshing to hear such forthright voices in a world where any debate about virginity is often so conflicting or one-sided.\" Jennifer Wadsworth of SFGate.com remarked that the project is \"More than just a narrative about virginity. It’s about the connection of storytelling and how hearing about other people’s experience can make anyone else feel less alone in theirs.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1968524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1968524", "title": "Imperial crown", "text": "Imperial crown\n\nAn Imperial Crown is a crown used for the coronation of emperors.\n\nCrowns in Europe during the medieval period varied in design:\n\nDuring the medieval era the crowns worn by English kings had been described as both closed (or arched) and open designs. This was in contrast with kings of France who always wore an open crown. However, there is academic debate on how often closed crowns were used in England during this period, as the first unequivocal use of the closed crown was by Henry IV at his coronation on 13 October 1399. However his effigy on his tomb in Canterbury Cathedral wears an open crown so the link in England between the style of the crown and its representation as that worn by a king and an emperor was not established. The use of a closed crown may have been adopted by the English as a way of distinguishing the English crown from the French crown, but it also had other meanings to some. For example, Henry V wore a helmet-crown of the arched type at the Battle of Agincourt which the French knight St. Remy commented was \"like the imperial crown\".\n\nThe association of the closed crown with imperial crowns was already established in Continental Europe by the late 14th century, for example the florins minted for Charles IV, Holy Roman Emperor) sometimes show him with a closed crown (though on the commoner variety, the crown is open). A miniature picture in the \"Chronica Aulae Regiae\" written in the great abbey outside Prague depicts his mother Elizabeth, a queen of Bohemia, wearing an open crown, while his two wives, who had imperial titles, have closed ones.\n\nDuring the machinations that surrounded the introduction of the imperial crown under Henry VIII (see the section below Legal usage), the closed crown, became associated as a symbolic representation of the English Crown as an imperial crown, and has remained so until this day.\n\nThe Silk Imperial Crown of Russia was used as an official coronation gift of the Russian Empire for the coronation of Nicholas II, the last Emperor of the Romanov line. Nicholas II was the first and only monarch to be presented with such a monumental coronation gift. It was not intended as ceremonial regalia, but as private Imperial property - a memento to his coronation event.\n\nA list of prominent examples of depictions of imperial crowns displayed atop heraldic achievements or as heraldic charge includes:\n\nBecause Pope Clement VII would not grant Henry VIII of England an annulment of his marriage to Catherine of Aragon, the English Parliament passed the Act in Restraint of Appeals (1533) in which it was explicitly stated that\nThe next year the Act of Supremacy (1534) explicitly tied the headship of the church to the imperial crown:\n\nDuring the reign of Mary I the First Act of Supremacy was annulled, but during the reign of Elizabeth I the Second Act of Supremacy, with similar wording to the First Act, was passed in 1559. During the English Interregnum the laws were annulled, but the acts which caused the laws to be in abeyance were themselves, deemed to be null and void by the Parliaments of the English Restoration, so by act of Parliament \"The Crown\" of England and (later the British and UK crowns) are imperial crowns.\n\n"}
{"id": "12030932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12030932", "title": "Information Kerala Mission", "text": "Information Kerala Mission\n\nInformation Kerala Mission (IKM),Is an Autonomous Institution under Local self government Department, Government of Kerala, for computerisation and networking of local governments in Kerala (India) and has been in existence for a decade since August 1999. The purpose of the Institution was to \"facilitate easy and prompt communication between State Planning Board (SPB) and 1215 local 'bodies' for swift monitoring\".\n\nThe basic objective of IKM is to provide vibrant Information technology e-governance to the local governments in Kerala.IKM attempts to strengthen local self-governance or third tier governance and development through ICT (Information and Communications Technology) applications. It envisages computerising and networking the 1223 local self-government institutions (LSGIs) in Kerala. It is the largest and most comprehensive local government computerisation project in India. It addresses the entire gamut of issues concerning local governance, decentralised planning, and local economic development.\n\nExecutive Director Of IKM- Seeram Sambasiva Rao IAS\n\nIKM envisages a phased transformation of the existing systems to electronic systems. It has developed methodologies that suit this purpose. IKM has adopted a human-centred approach to e-governance. This approach is characterised by the holistic and proactive evaluation of existing systems and legacy systems, attempts to simplify and transform existing systems and effecting integration of systems. Systematic attempts at process reforms are also part of it. These would enable faster and objective decision-making, more citizen-friendly interfaces and better accountability.\n\nIKM Methodology places the employees and functionaries at the central stage of this transformation and focuses on their empowerment and capacity building as the mechanism for improving performance. The software applications are developed through active user participation. Emphasis is placed on demystification of technologies and establishing adequate technical support systems. Training and hand holding are given high priority. IKM has taken out extensive pilot deployment of its application suites.\n\n\n\nThe Government of India envisaged a plan for creating a portal for rural local governments in the entire country including the State of Kerala, for which webserver was set up and templates for uploading of each website by the respective local government was envisaged. But it remains in cold storage now.\n\nNow the Government of Kerala, as part of the activities of IT Mission focusing on FOSS promotion,started working on a project for creating a website of each local government in Kerala. A few websites in Malayalam were created by using the Content Management System Joomla, as part of it.\n\nThe public audit agency of Govt of India, Comptroller and Auditor General of India had indicted charges of omission against the activities of Information Kerala Mission, after conducting detailed investigations into the affairs of the functioning of IKM. In the audit document, CAG mentioned that the entire project had amongst many shortcomings,\n\n\nCAG hasn't lifted these audit observations till date.\n\nInformation Kerala Mission is widely accused of developing software solutions deploying proprietary services from Microsoft Inc, which goes against the 'letter and spirit' of the IT policy promulgated by the State Government. The IT policy insists that all public software solutions be developed only with Free Software.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2503568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2503568", "title": "John Seymour (author)", "text": "John Seymour (author)\n\nJohn Seymour (12 June 1914 – 14 September 2004) was a prolific early author in the self-sufficiency movement. He had multiple roles as a writer, broadcaster, environmentalist, agrarian, smallholder and activist; a rebel against: consumerism, industrialisation, genetically modified organisms, cities, motor cars; an advocate for: self-reliance, personal responsibility, self-sufficiency, conviviality (food, drink, dancing and singing), gardening, caring for the Earth and for the soil.\n\nSeymour was born in Hampstead, London, England; his father died when he was very young, his mother remarried and the family moved to the fashionable seaside town of Frinton-on-Sea in north-east Essex. It was however surrounded by agricultural land, and the life led by those on the land and in small boats laid a foundation for his later vision of a simple cottage economy with farming and fishing providing the essentials of life.\n\nAfter schooling in England and Switzerland, he studied agriculture at Wye College, at that time a school of the University of London. In 1934, at the age of 20, he went to Southern Africa where he held a succession of jobs: a farmhand and then manager of a sheep farm, a deckhand and skipper of a fishing boat operating from Namibia (then South-West Africa), a copper mine worker in Zambia (then Northern Rhodesia), and a worker for the government veterinary service. Whilst in Africa he spent some time with bushmen where he gained friendship and an insight into the life of hunter gatherers.\n\nAt the start of World War II in 1939, Seymour travelled to Kenya where he enlisted in the Kenya Regiment, and was posted to the King's African Rifles. He fought against Italian troops in the Abyssinian Campaign in Ethiopia. The regiment was then posted to Sri Lanka (then the British colony Ceylon) and afterwards to Burma, where allied forces were fighting against Japan. For Seymour the war ended on a low note; he expressed his disgust when the Allies used fission bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki.\n\nOn arrival in Britain after the war Seymour worked for a while on a Thames sailing barge, a traditional craft still operating around the south and east coasts of England, where he picked up the folk songs of a disappearing occupation. After working as a labour officer for the Agricultural Committee finding agricultural work for German prisoners of war who still not returned home in 1950, he created a series of short programmes on the BBC Home Service (now Radio 4). He then travelled overland to India for the BBC, gaining experience of the Subsistence agriculture still common in eastern Europe and Asia. His experiences on the journey led to his first book, \"The Hard Way to India\", published in 1951.\n\nSeymour was living aboard a Dutch sailing smack when he married Sally Medworth, an Australian potter and artist in 1954. In this they travelled around the waterways and rivers of England and the Netherlands, journeys later described in \"Sailing through England\". As their first daughter grew older they felt that a land-base would be more suitable. They leased two isolated cottages on of land near Orford in Suffolk. These 5 acres are still called Seymour's Bit by the current owner. The manner in which they developed self-sufficiency on this smallholding is recounted in \"The Fat of the Land\" (1961). At the end of the 1960s, Seymour, along with other radical voices like Herbert Read, Edward Goldsmith and Fritz Schumacher, provided a stream of articles for the journal \"Resurgence\" edited from 1966–1970 by John Papworth.\n\nIn 1964 the family moved to a farm near Newport, Pembrokeshire. The 1970s saw Seymour's publication rate reach a maximum. In 1976 \"The Complete Book of Self-Sufficiency\" was published, a guide for real and dreaming downshifters. Appearing shortly after the publication of Schumacher's \"\" (1973) and \"The Good Life's\" first showing on British television (1975), the sales of the book exceeded all expectations. It was also set to establish the reputation of two young publishers, Christopher Dorling and Peter Kindersley who had commissioned and edited the work. In addition to self-sufficiency he wrote four guide books in the \"Companion Guide\" series.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s he also made television programmes: an early series followed the footsteps of George Borrow's \"Wild Wales\" (1862), later he spent three years making the BBC series \"Far From Paradise\" (with Herbert Girardet) which examined the history of human impact on the environment.\n\nHis farm in Wales welcomed visitors seeking guidance on the smallholders life, a project which continued when he moved to County Wexford in Ireland during the 1980s. Here in 1999 he was taken to court for damaging a crop of GM sugar beet. For the last years of his life, he lived on his old Pembrokeshire farm with his daughter's family. He died there on 14 September 2004 and was buried in the top field in an orchard that he had planted.\n\nHis obituary in the Guardian said: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "39154648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39154648", "title": "LGBT rights in Sergipe", "text": "LGBT rights in Sergipe\n\nLesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people in Sergipe, Brazil enjoy many of the same legal protections available to non-LGBT people. Homosexuality is legal in the state.\n\nSergipe was among the first states in Brazil to enact a state constitution banning discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, doing so in 1989 alongside Mato Grosso do Sul.\n\nOn 5 July 2012, Brazilian State's Judiciary Power of Sergipe issued \"Provimento nº 06/2012\" regulating same-sex marriage throughout the State. \n"}
{"id": "24240415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24240415", "title": "Latvian Human Rights Committee", "text": "Latvian Human Rights Committee\n\nLatvian Human Rights Committee (, ) is a human rights non-governmental organization in Latvia. It is member of international human rights and anti-racism NGOs FIDH, AEDH. Co-chairpersons of LHRC are Vladimirs Buzajevs and Natalija Jolkina. According to the authors of the study \"Ethnopolitics in Latvia\", former CBSS Commissioner on Democratic Institutions and Human Rights Ole Espersen \"had visited LHRC various times and had used mostly the data of that organisation in his views on Latvia\".\n\nIn 1992, LHRC was founded (then — as Latvian Human Rights and International Humanitarian Co-operation Committee) by a group of people co-operating since 1990, led by Tatjana Ždanoka and Vladimirs Bogdanovs. In 1995, LHRC has joined FIDH and was registered by Latvian authorities.\n\nSince 1994, LHRC periodically publishes an updated list of differences in rights between citizens and non-citizens of Latvia. Since 1997, LHRC supports UNITED for Intercultural Action. In 2007, LHRC has joined ENAR and AEDH.\n\nThe following printed publications in English were issued or prepared by LHRC:\n\n\nLHRC members have worked on the following cases before international human rights \ninstitutions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11276697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11276697", "title": "List of prime ministers defeated by votes of no confidence", "text": "List of prime ministers defeated by votes of no confidence\n\nThis is a list of Prime Ministers defeated by either a parliamentary motion of no confidence or by the similar process of loss of supply.\n\nNo Australian prime minister has ever been defeated in the House of Representatives by an explicit motion of no confidence, although one was passed by the Representatives. In addition, six prime ministers were unable to enact important policy and therefore resigned, two prime ministers were unable to obtain supply from the House of Representatives, one prime minister was unable to obtain supply in the Senate and was dismissed by the Governor General, and one prime minister never had the confidence of the House of Representatives (but an election was announced when he was appointed, so his defeat was without effect).\n\nThese prime ministers were able to gain supply from the House of Representatives, but were unable to pass important policy-related legislation:\n\n\nThese prime ministers could not gain supply from the House of Representatives or an opposition amendment to a supply bill was passed:\n\n\nGough Whitlam could not gain supply from the Senate which was controlled by the conservative Coalition. It thus precipitated the 1975 constitutional crisis and Whitlam was dismissed.\n\nFollowing Whitlam's dismissal, Malcolm Fraser was appointed Prime Minister. He never had control of the House of Representatives, which immediately passed a motion of no confidence. However, the Governor-General had already accepted the advice of Fraser to dissolve parliament by the time of the motion of no confidence, and had already acted on it before he could receive the motion, so it was without effect.\n\n\nAll no confidences are minority governments.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThese countries are generally parliamentary systems in which the President is elected by the Parliament but is also head of state.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29776947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29776947", "title": "List of public policy topics by country", "text": "List of public policy topics by country\n\nThis is a list of articles on public policy topics, arranged by country.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10119658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10119658", "title": "Man's Rights in the Family Party", "text": "Man's Rights in the Family Party\n\nThe Man's Rights in the Family Party (, \"Miflega Zkhuyot HaGever BeMishpaha - Ra'ash\") was a minor political party in Israel headed by Yaakov Schlusser.\n\nIn 1996, Schlusser published a book, \"Men's Rights in the Family?\", which argued that family law in the State of Israel is biased against men. Issues such as divorce, alimony, false accusations of abuse, and child support are addressed.\n\nSchlusser subsequently contested the 1996 Knesset elections as the head of the Man's Rights in the Family Party. The platform of the party called for the abolition of the clause granting automatic custody to the mother in cases of divorce for small children. It also called for basing child support on other factors besides the cost-of-living index. Other issues the party dealt with was more housing for young couples, lowering taxes and a call for state pensions. It also called for the option of a secular civil marriage in addition to a religiously recognized marriage. It received 2,388 votes (0.1%), failing to win a seat.\n\nIn the 1999 Knesset elections the party ran under the name \"Justice for All\" and received 1,257 votes (0.04%), the second lowest number of votes with a 1.5% electoral threshold. \n\nIn 2003 the party was accused by the Israel Women’s Lobby of inciting violence against women and misrepresenting facts in their campaign broadcasts. However according to an article in \"Haaretz\", the chairman of the Central Elections Committee rejected the women's lobby petition to censor the campaign. In the subsequent Knesset elections, the party received 1,284 votes (0.04%). The 2006 elections saw the party run as \"Justice for All\" again, this time receiving 3,819 votes (0.12%).\n\nPrior to the 2009 Knesset elections Schlusser said in an interview with Yedioth Achronoth that one out of every two fathers loses the right to see their children as a result of messy divorces adding, \"children have a right to see their fathers,\" also claiming that \"a child that sees a woman in control, in contradiction to nature, may turn homosexual\". In the elections the party received only 921 votes (0.03%).\n\nIn 2012 Schusser was profiled in \"Makor Rishon\" about his personal experiences which led him to run for public office. In 2013 he advocated changing laws that stipulate stay-at-home men must pay National Insurance while housewives are exempt. In an interview with \"Haaretz\", he stated, \"When it comes to the age of retirement, for example, women can retire at age 62, but I can't.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "3682880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3682880", "title": "Methodist Peace Fellowship", "text": "Methodist Peace Fellowship\n\nThe Methodist Peace Fellowship is a British Methodist Christian pacifist organization.\n\nThe Methodist Peace Fellowship (MPF) was founded by Rev. Henry Carter in 1933 to inform and unite Methodists who covenanted together \"to renounce war and all its works and ways.\"' It is part of the international Fellowship of Reconciliation. Members are expected to accept a fully pacifist position, but the MPF now encourages others to enrol as 'supporters'.\n\nThe MPF arranges a public meeting each year in connection with the British Methodist Conference, and in other ways seeks to witness at national level through Methodist channels. The MPF has little local organisation with members usually working through the Fellowship of Reconicilation or local peace organisations.\n\nAt one time the Methodist Peace Fellowship claimed a quarter of all Methodist ministers among its members.\n\n"}
{"id": "35482666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35482666", "title": "Ministry of Primary Industries (Malaysia)", "text": "Ministry of Primary Industries (Malaysia)\n\nThe Ministry of Primary Industries (), abbreviated MPI, is a ministry of the Government of Malaysia that is responsible for plantation and commodities: palm oil, rubber, timber, furniture, cocoa, pepper, kenaf, tobacco.\n\n\n\nThe Ministry of Primary Industries is responsible for administration of several key Acts:\n\nThe plantation and commodities sector, comprising oil palm, rubber, timber, cocoa, pepper and tobacco has contributed significantly to the country’s economic development for the past 50 years. Since then, the sector has become one of Malaysia’s major exports earnings. Exports values of these commodities and commodity based products in 2012 was RM 127.5 billion, constituted 18.2 per cent of total export earnings.\n\nThe remunerative price of commodities throughout 2012 has benefited the country, in particular the smallholders. The future of plantation industries and commodities sector remains bright and promises a lot of opportunities.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14308616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14308616", "title": "Network governance", "text": "Network governance\n\nNetwork governance is \"interfirm coordination that is characterized by organic or informal social system, in contrast to bureaucratic structures within firms and formal contractual relationships between them. The concepts of privatization, public private partnership, and contracting are defined in this context.\" Network governance constitutes a \"distinct form of coordinating economic activity\" (Powell, 1990:301) which contrasts and competes with markets and hierarchies.\n\nNetwork governance involves a select, persistent, and structured set of autonomous firms (as well as nonprofit agencies) engaged in creating products or services based on implicit and open-ended contracts adapt to environmental contingencies and to coordinate and safeguard ex-changes. These contracts are socially—not legally—binding. As such, governance networks distinguish themselves from the hierarchical control of the state and the competitive regulation of the market in at least three ways:\n\nAs a concept, Network Governance explains increased efficiency and reduced agency problems for organizations existing in highly turbulent environments. On the one hand, the efficiency is enhanced through distributed knowledge acquisition and decentralised problem solving; on the other, the effectiveness is improved through the emergence of collective solutions to global problems in different self-regulated sectors of activity. Due to the rapid pace of modern society and competitive pressures from globalization, transnational network governance has gained prominence.\n\nNetwork governance first depends on the comprehension of the short and long term global business risks. It’s based on the definition of the IT key objectives and their influence on the network. It includes the negotiation of the satisfaction criteria for the business lines and integrates processes for the measurement and improvement of the global efficiency and end user satisfaction. Beyond that, it allows the constitution and piloting of internal teams and external partners as well as the setting up of a control system enabling to validate the performance of the whole. Finally, it ensures permanent communication at all the various management levels.\n\nIn the public sector, network governance is not universally accepted as a positive development by all public administration scholars. Some doubt its ability to adequately perform as a democratic governance structure while others view it as phenomenon that promotes efficient and effective delivery of public goods and services. Examining managed networks in health care, Ferlie and colleagues suggest that networks may be the 'least bad' form of governance addressing wicked problems, such as providing health care for the increasing number of older people.\n\nProvan and Kenis categorize network governance forms along two different dimensions:\n\nIn participant governance a network is governed by its members themselves.\n\nThey call such networks that involve most or all network members interacting on a relatively equal basis in the process of governance \"shared participant governance\".\n\nMore centralized networks may be governed by and through a lead organization that is a network member.\n\nThese examples show how Network Governance worked in the eras of increased trade and cooperation between merchants and nations ranging from the 10th Century to the 17th Century. Ron Harris, in his journal \"Reputation at the Birth of Corporate Governance. \"The questions of who had a good reputation and who had a bad one, whom one could trust and entrust money to, were unaltered, but the relationships to which they applied changed, as did the institutions that provided answers to these questions.\"\nThese are just two examples that help better explain network governance. A sharing of knowledge and information is at the center of the Amber Alert movement and the rise of Homeland Security Fusion Centers.\n\nRelationships among governing positions and governing institutions are absolutely vital for the success of the internal workings of the governments that aid the public. While federal, state, and local governments differ in their policies, they all work in coherence in order for the foundations to work efficiently. \"Checks and balances\" is a prime synonym when referring to intergovernmental relations. All participating parties of the government must adhere to specific guidelines in order to cultivate a fair and even playing field that is both beneficial, and just to the population it affects.\nA primary principal in governmental relationships is the balance of power between the parties. The Federal government has a large amount of control, in terms of national security, national finances and foreign affairs. However, in order to balance that control, state level governments have a significant voice in intrastate politics. Specific examples of state level policies include topics such as state highways, borderlines, and state parks. This allows states to still have flexibility while bonding to national policy.\n\nUnfortunately, creating relationships among different level governments and government agencies are a complicated, and often grueling process. However, many agencies make deals or come to terms or make a compromise within the party in order to further benefit both institutions. For example, a state may fund a county in order to better the county roads because it could be a direct reflection of the state. Intra-governmental relations between agencies, state level, local level, and federal level government must work together in order to prosper and create policies or laws that are beneficial to both the agencies and the public.\n\nIn the wake of apparent failures to govern complex environmental problems by the central state, \"new\" modes of governance have been proposed in recent years. Network governance is the mode most commonly associated with the concept of governance, in which autonomous stakeholders work together to achieve common goals.\n\nThe emergence of network governance can be characterised by an attempt to take into account the increasing importance of NGOs, the private sector, scientific networks and international institutions in the performance of various functions of governance. Embedding interventions to make society better and to transform conflicts within \"relational webs\" can ensure better coordination with existing initiatives and institutions, and greater local acceptance and buy in, which makes the intervention more sustainable. Prominent examples of such networks that have been instrumental in forming successful working arrangements are the World Commission on Dams, the Global Environmental Facility and the flexible mechanism of the Kyoto Protocol. Another ongoing effort is the United Nations Global Compact which combines multiple stakeholders in a trilateral construction including representatives from governments, private sector and the NGO community. (p. 6)\n\nOne main reason for the proliferation of network approaches in environmental governance is their potential to integrate and make available different sources of knowledge and competences and to encourage individual and collective learning. Currently, environmental governance faces various challenges that are characterised by complexities and uncertainties inherent to environmental and sustainable problems. Network governance can provide a means to address these governance problems by institutionalising learning on facts and deliberation on value judgements. For example, in the realm of global chemical safety, transnational networks have formed around initiatives by international organisations and successfully developed rules for addressing global chemical issues many of which have been implemented by national legislations. Most notably, these transnational networks made it possible to avoid the institutional apathy that is typically found in political settings with many actors of conflicting interests, especially on a global level.\n\nThrough integration of actors from different sectors, governance networks are able to provide an innovative environment of learning, laying the way for adaptive and effective governance. One particular form of networks important to governance problems is ‘epistemic communities’ in which actors share the same basic casual beliefs and normative values. (p. 3) Although participation in these epistemic communities requires an interest in the problem at stake, the actors involved do not necessarily share the same interest. In general, the interests are interdependent but can also be different or sometimes contesting, stressing the need for consensus building and the development of cognitive commodities. (p. 26)\n\nThe main argument in the literature for the advantage of network governance over traditional command and control regulation or, alternatively, recourse to market regulation, is its capacity to deal with situations of intrinsic uncertainty and decision making under bounded rationality. This is typically the case in the field of global environmental governance where one has to deal with complex and interrelated problems. In these situations, network institutions can create a synergy between different competences and sources of knowledge allowing dealing with complex and interlined problems.\n\nAs increasing amounts of scientific data validate concerns about the deterioration of our environment, the role of non-governmental organizations (NGOs) in network governance is being utilized in ever-increasing ways to halt or at least slow this deterioration. One of the ways they are accomplishing this is by directing their activities to focus on improving Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). As a concept, CSR has existed since the first business was formed in civilization. The French philosopher Rousseau described it as the \"social contract\" between business and society. As theories about CSR have evolved in keeping with their times, today it is increasingly associated with sustainable practices and development, meaning that businesses have a \"moral responsibility\" to conduct their operations in an ecologically sustainable manner. It is no longer acceptable for corporations just to grow \"the bottom line\" and increase profits for their shareholders. Businesses remain free to pursue profits but are increasingly obligated to minimize their negative impact on the environment.\n\nNetwork governance, in the form of NGOs, is effectively bringing to light \"bad practices\" by corporations, as well as highlighting those actively working to reduce their carbon footprints. Private governance networks such as CSRHUB and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) are entities that hold corporations accountable for their amount of corporate social responsibility. Founded to accelerate solutions to climate change and water management, the CDP discloses information and data on water management, greenhouse gas emissions, and climate change strategies on over 3,000 companies worldwide. It is the only global climate change reporting system and encourages corporations to engage in \"best practices\" regarding environmental impact by making their formerly private or unknown environmental impact information available to anyone, including the general public. This information can be used (by a variety of entities) to make consumer purchase and investment decisions, formulate governmental as well as corporate policy, educate people, develop less harmful business methods for corporations and formulate action plans by environmental advocacy groups, to name a few. \"The first step towards managing carbon emissions is to measure them because in business what gets measured gets managed. The Carbon Disclosure Project has played a crucial role in encouraging companies to take the first steps in that measurement and management path\". This quote by Lord Adair Turner, Chairman of the UK Financial Services Authority, illustrates how network governance is enhancing CSR.\n\nLeading European business schools joined with more than sixty multinationals to launch the Academy of Business in Society, the mission of which is to push CSR to the forefront of business practice. Their main activities in pursuing this goal are: 1 )developing ‘best-in-class’ training practices and learning resources for businesses and corporate academies, 2) including the changing role of business in society in business education and 3) creating a global research bank on the role of business in society and delivering interdisciplinary research on CSR. This is an example of network governance using education to improve Corporate Social Responsibility. Use of organization of networks in today’s society is a valid means of moving forward in preserving our environment.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFull text.\n"}
{"id": "14629032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14629032", "title": "New diplomacy", "text": "New diplomacy\n\nNew diplomacy is international relations in which citizens play a greater role. Under the old diplomacy, global policymaking was more strictly the purview of governments. New diplomacy began to be observed in the 1990s amidst easing tensions in the wake of the Cold War and streamlined communication among activists in the burgeoning Internet age. New diplomacy is being used to address many issues such as human rights (e.g. the campaign to end South African apartheid and the Save Darfur campaign), humanitarian assistance, labor rights, environmental issues, and fair trade. Carne Ross, who resigned from the British Foreign Office following his country's participation in the 2003 invasion of Iraq, wrote about this phenomenon in his book, \"Independent Diplomat\".\n\nIn March 2008, the Académie Diplomatique Internationale and the \"International Herald Tribune\" created the Forum for New Diplomacy featuring leading figures in politics, business and civil society in discussion with senior editors and columnists from the \"International Herald Tribune\" and \"The New York Times\" about emerging dynamics in global affairs. The Forum provides an ongoing opportunity for exploring “new diplomacy” with a particular emphasis on innovative approaches to effecting change in international relations. \n"}
{"id": "11066035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11066035", "title": "PIANZEA", "text": "PIANZEA\n\nPIANZEA (Pacific Islands, Australia and New Zealand Electoral Administrators’ Network) is an organisation of electoral administrators in Oceania.\n\nNetwork members include America Samoa, Australia, Cook Islands, Fiji, French Polynesia, Guam, Kiribati, Federated States of Micronesia, New Zealand, New Caledonia, Niue, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Vanuatu and Wallis and Futuna.\n\n"}
{"id": "8902096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8902096", "title": "Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid", "text": "Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid\n\nPalestine: Peace Not Apartheid is a \"New York Times\" Best Seller book written by Jimmy Carter, 39th President of the United States (1977–1981) and laureate of the 2002 Nobel Peace Prize. It was published by Simon & Schuster in November 2006.\n\nDuring his presidency, Carter hosted talks between Menachem Begin of Israel and Anwar Sadat of Egypt that led to the Egypt–Israel Peace Treaty. In this book Carter argues that Israel's continued control and colonization of Palestinian land have been the primary obstacles to a comprehensive peace agreement in the Middle East. That perspective, coupled with \"Apartheid\" in the titular phrase \"Peace Not Apartheid\" (which many regard as a subtitle) and allegations of errors and misstatements in the book, sparked criticism. Carter has defended his book and countered that response to it \"in the real world…has been overwhelmingly positive.\"\n\nThe documentary, \"Man from Plains\" (2007), explores the former president's post–White House role in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict.\n\nCarter identifies \"two interrelated obstacles to permanent peace in the Middle East\":\n\nTo bring an end to what he calls \"this continuing tragedy\", in Chapter 17 (\"Summary\"), Carter calls for a revitalization of the peace process based on the following three \"key requirements\":\n\nRegarding the use of the word \"Apartheid\" in the title of his book, Carter has said:\n\nIn his op-ed titled \"Reiterating the Keys to Peace\", published in The Boston Globe on 20 December 2006, Carter summarizes \"[s]ome major points in the book\":\n\nCritical response to \"Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid\" has been mixed. According to Julie Bosman, criticism of the book \"has escalated to a full-scale furor,\" much of which has focused on Carter's use of the word \"apartheid\" in the subtitle. Some critics, including several leaders of the Democratic Party and of American Jewish organizations, have interpreted the subtitle as an allegation of Israeli apartheid, which they believe to be inflammatory and unsubstantiated. Tony Karon, Senior Editor at TIME.com and a former anti-Apartheid activist for the ANC, said: \" Jimmy Carter had to write this book precisely because Palestinian life and history is not accorded equal value in American discourse, far from it. And his use of the word apartheid is not only morally valid; it is essential, because it shakes the moral stupor that allows many liberals to rationalize away the daily, grinding horror being inflicted on Palestinians in the West Bank and Gaza\". Former President Bill Clinton wrote a brief letter to the chairman of the American Jewish Committee, thanking him for articles criticizing the book and citing his agreement with Dennis Ross's attempts to \"straighten ... out\" Carter's claims and conclusions about Clinton's own summer 2000 Camp David peace proposal.\n\nCritics claim that Carter crossed the line into anti-Semitism. Abraham Foxman, the national director of the Anti-Defamation League, initially accused Carter of \"engaging in anti-Semitism\" in the book; Foxman told James Traub later that he would not call the former president himself an \"anti-Semite\" or a \"bigot\". Ethan Bronner also asserted that Carter's \"overstatement\" in the book \"hardly adds up to anti-Semitism.\"\n\nSome journalists and academics have praised Carter for what they believe to be speaking honestly about the Israeli–Palestinian conflict in a media environment described as hostile to opponents of Israel's policies. Some left-leaning Israeli politicians such as Yossi Beilin and Shulamit Aloni argued that Carter's critique of Israeli policy in the Palestinian territories reflects that of many Israelis themselves. Norman Finkelstein defends Carter's analysis in \"Palestine Peace Not Apartheid\": \"After four decades of Israeli occupation, the infrastructure and superstructure of apartheid have been put in place. Outside the never-never land of mainstream American Jewry and U.S. media[,] this reality is barely disputed.\"\n\nCarter has responded to negative reviews in the mainstream news media in an op-ed published in the \"Los Angeles Times\" (which was excerpted in \"The Guardian\" and elsewhere):\nHe also wrote a \"Letter to Jewish Citizens of America\" explaining \"his use of the term 'apartheid' and sympathizing with Israelis who fear terrorism.\"\n\nIn a report updated by the Associated Press after the publication of Carter's \"Letter to Jewish Citizens of America\", Greg Bluestein observes that Carter replied generally to complaints of the book's errors and inaccuracies by Dennis Ross, Alan Dershowitz, Kenneth Stein, the Simon Wiesenthal Center, and others by pointing out that the Carter Center staff as well as an \"unnamed 'distinguished' reporter\" fact-checked it. Rachel Zelkowitz points out that, as cited in various news accounts, \"Carter has consistently defended his book's accuracy against Stein and other critics\"; in a prepared statement, Carter's press secretary Deanna Congileo responds \"that Carter had his book reviewed for accuracy throughout the writing process\" and that \"[a]s with all of President Carter's previous books, any detected errors will be corrected in later editions . . \" In response to the Associated Press's request for a comment on the resignations of Stein and fourteen other members of the Center's Board of Councilors, speaking on behalf of both Carter and the Carter Center, Ms. Congileo also provided a statement from its executive director John Hardman, who, according to Zelkowitz, \"also fact checked \"Palestine\", saying that the members of that board 'are not engaged in implementing the work of the Center.'\"\n\nCarter has said that debate on Israel-related issues is muffled in the US media by lobbying efforts of the pro-Israel lobby: \"[M]any controversial issues concerning Palestine and the path to peace for Israel are intensely debated among Israelis and throughout other nations — but not in the United States. . . . This reluctance to criticize any policies of the Israeli government is because of the extraordinary lobbying efforts of the American-Israel Political Action Committee [sic] and the absence of any significant contrary voices.\" He stresses that through the debate among others that he hopes this book will stimulate and through his own related public-speaking and media appearances, he hopes to tear down the \"impenetrable wall\" that stops the people of the US from seeing the plight of Palestinians.\n\nIn early December 2006 Brandeis University invited Carter to visit the university to debate his book with Alan Dershowitz. Carter declined that invitation, explaining: \"I don't want to have a conversation even indirectly with Dershowitz. There is no need to for me to debate somebody who, in my opinion, knows nothing about the situation in Palestine.\" Carter said that the Brandeis debate request, \"is proof that many in the United States are unwilling to hear an alternative view on the nation's most taboo foreign policy issue, Israel's occupation of Palestinian territory,\" adding: \"There is no debate in America about anything that would be critical of Israel.\"\n\nDershowitz criticized Carter's refusal to debate him, asserting: \"Carter’s refusal to debate wouldn't be so strange if it weren't for the fact that he claims that he wrote the book precisely so as to start debate over the issue of the Israel-Palestine peace process. If that were really true, Carter would be thrilled to have the opportunity to debate.\" He later wrote in \"The Case Against Israel's Enemies\" that Carter's accusation of his ignorance was untrue \"since we had discussed my several visits to the Palestinian Authority during our conversation only months earlier in Herzliya.\" \n\nIn a Boston Globe article of 22 December 2006, Professor Patricia Johnston said she and many colleagues had offered to chip in perhaps $100 each to pay for whatever travel and security costs a Carter visit would entail. \"Who is Alan Dershowitz?\" Johnston said. Carter \"is the former president of the United States, who has done so much to further the cause of peace in the Middle East and elsewhere. It's an insult to suggest that he should have to defend himself that way.\" She said she envisioned Carter giving a traditional speech and taking audience questions.\n\nOn 26 December 2006, WCVB-TV (an ABC-TV affiliate), reported that \"[a]bout 100 students, faculty and alumni of Brandeis University have signed an online petition to push the administration to bring former President Carter to campus to discuss his new book on Palestine, without being required to debate it.\"\n\n\"The Boston Globe\" reports that since it initially revealed \"that Carter felt unwelcome on the Waltham campus, people have argued over whether he is unwilling to answer for his views, or whether Brandeis, which was founded by the American Jewish community, can't tolerate criticism of Israel. The latter is a view that some professors hope they can dispel by reviving the Carter visit.\"\n\nOn 10 January 2007, it was reported that President Carter would discuss \"Palestine Peace Not Apartheid\" at Brandeis University but that he would \"not, however, debate the book with\" Dershowitz. Brandeis officials reported that Carter would \"be the first former president to visit Brandeis since Harry Truman delivered the commencement address in 1957... It will be Carter's first visit to a university to discuss the book, [Carter's spokeswoman Deanna] Congileo said\", confirming also \"the president has set no conditions and would answer as many questions as possible\"; Carter plans to \"speak for about 15 minutes and then answer questions for 45 minutes during the visit.\"\n\nThe speech, which occurred on 23 January 2007, was \"closed to the public and limited to 'members of the university community only'\"; nevertheless, Dershowitz said that he still planned to \"attend and question Carter\": \"'I will be the first person to have my hand up to ask him a question,' he said. 'I guarantee that they won't stop me from attending.'\"\n\nOn 18 January 2007 news outlets reported Brandeis' announcement that while Dershowitz could not attend Carter's speech, after it ended he would have the stage for a \"rebuttal.\"\n\nThe day after the speech (24 January 2007), \"The New York Times\" reported on the program: \"Questions were preselected by the committee that invited Mr. Carter, and the questioners included an Israeli student and a Palestinian student . After Mr. Carter left, Mr. Dershowitz spoke in the same gymnasium, saying that the former president oversimplified the situation and that his conciliatory and sensible-sounding speech at Brandeis belied his words in some other interviews.\" According to David Weber, of ABC News, Carter said \"that he stood by the book and its title, that he apologized for what he called an 'improper and stupid' sentence in the book [which he acknowledged seemed to justify terrorism by saying that suicide bombings should end when Israel accepts the goals of the road map to peace with Palestinians and which he had already instructed his publisher to remove from its future editions,] and that he had been disturbed by accusations that he was anti-Semitic... [Carter]...acknowledged...that 'Palestine Peace Not Apartheid' has 'caused great concern in the Jewish community,' but noted that it has nonetheless prompted discussion.\" An editorial published in the Waltham, Massachusetts newspaper, the \"Daily News Tribune\", concludes: \"Carter succeeded in bringing to Brandeis a productive, civil debate.\" Videotaped excerpts from Carter's visit to Brandeis were featured on several national news programs in the United States, such as NBC's morning program \"Today\", along with follow-up interviews with Carter.\n\nAs a result of the visit, major donors told Brandeis University that they will no longer give it money in \"retaliation\", according to Stuart Eizenstat, chief domestic policy adviser and executive director of the White House Domestic Policy Staff during Carter's presidency and a current trustee of Brandeis, as quoted in \"The Jewish Week\" in mid-February 2007.\n\nIn 2007 Jonathan Demme made the film \"Man From Plains\" which \"follows the former President as he takes part in a book tour across America to publicise his new tome, \"Palestine Peace Not Apartheid\".\" According to the \"Boston Globe\" Demme filmed Carter for three months \"to compile footage for a documentary about the former president's book and Carter's efforts to increase debate on the Israeli–Palestinian conflict.\" While it granted camera access to members of the news media for their broadcasts, Brandeis University refused Demme's request to film Carter's January 2007 speech for the end of the film, citing logistical and legal considerations. The film debuted at the Toronto International Film Festival on 10 September 2007.\n\nOn 22 February 2007 Carter participated in a \"conversation\" about \"Palestine Peace Not Apartheid\" with former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright at the Carter Center, moderated by Conflict Resolution Program Director Matthew Hodes. The event became sold out in early January 2007. The event was simultaneously webcast in the Carter Center's online \"multi-media\" section, and the Center's website now includes a direct link to the \"archived webcast.\"\n\nOn 8 March 2007 George Washington University hosted a visit by Carter during which he discussed his book. According to reporter Beth Schwartzapfel, in \"The Forward\", a group of Jewish students led by Robert Fishman, executive director of the campus , dominated the microphones, preventing other students from asking questions, while asking questions critical of Carter prepared, forwarded, and distributed to them in advance by faculty and students at Emory University as if they were their own questions:\nThe sheet distributed to students listed five questions. Among the issues raised were Carter's refusal to debate Harvard Law School professor Alan Dershowitz and former U.S. Middle East negotiator Dennis Ross; continuing Palestinian violence in Gaza; Carter's assertion that Israel did not accept Clinton's peace proposal; whether donations from the Saudi royal family explains the failure of the Carter Center to criticize human rights abuses in Saudi Arabia, and Carter's decision to use the word \"apartheid\" in his book's title.\n\nOne of the students involved in distributing the handout, Aviva Berman, said that four of the five questions came directly from a list prepared by Deborah Lipstadt and other professors at Emory University, prior to Carter's appearance at the school's Atlanta campus. \"When Carter came to speak at Emory, they had those questions made up, so they just forwarded them to me\", she said.\n\nSchwartzapfel also cites \"[a] video of the event, posted to the G.W. Web site, [which] shows that Carter received several standing ovations and long stretches of applause.\" \"But\", Schwartzapfel continues, \"an Associated Press story that ran immediately after the event characterized the audience as 'polite but mostly critical,'\" adding: \"Jack Stokes, an A.P. spokesman, told the Forward that the article's description of the audience 'was based on reporter Barry Schweid's observation of the speech, as well as the subsequent Q&A Carter engaged in with the students. The A.P. story stands as written.'\"\n\nSchweid observes:\nDespite the storm it ignited, former President Carter held fast on Thursday to his accusation that Israel oppresses the Palestinians on the West Bank and Gaza and seeks to colonize the land. Speaking at The George Washington University to a polite but mostly critical student audience, Carter offered no second thoughts on his book \"Palestine Peace Not Apartheid\". ... He said he was not accusing Israel of racism nor referring to its treatment of Arabs within the country. \"I defined apartheid very carefully\" as \"the forced segregation by one people of another\" on their own land, he said.\n\nSchwartzapfel reports, however:\nBrian Hennessey, vice president of the Vineeta Foundation, which is making a documentary on Carter, alleged to the Forward that he witnessed G.W. Hillel director Robert Fishman and several Jewish students conspiring to control the Q&A session. According to Hennessey, a handout was distributed with negative questions and then the students strategically grabbed the seats closest to the microphones. Hennessey said that he overheard people in the group saying that the point of their strategy was to make sure that Carter, whose book, \"Palestine Peace Not Apartheid\", faced only tough questions.\n\nIn the end, most of the eight questions fielded by Carter at the March 8 event took a pro-Israel tack in challenging the former president. Four of the students read their questions off of the sheet distributed beforehand.\n\nFishman told the Forward, Schwartzapfel reports further: \"'You know how we did it, honestly? ... We said, \"Let's sit near the microphones.\" They each had a copy of the questions, and then they stood on line.'\" Yet, she adds: \"Hennessey asserted that the maneuver ended up influencing media coverage of the event. 'This small group successfully outgunned the microphones and managed to give some journalists this totally erroneous impression that that was how the student body felt about Carter,' he said.\" Whereas \"Hennessey, who described Carter's book as 'very courageous,' contended that the G.W. students 'very successfully stood up and blocked anyone else from asking a question,'\" Schwartzapfel continues:\nBerman insisted that she and her fellow pro-Israel students did nothing wrong. It wasn’t his [Fishman's] group's responsibility \"to let other people ask questions\", he said. \"If they wanted to get to the microphone quicker, they could have.\"<br>\nFishman also rejected the assertion that the students' tactics were improper.<br>\n\"There was nothing done in there to stop anyone from asking questions\", Fishman said. \"It's important that, when you have that many people in the room who may not be familiar with the Israeli–Palestinian situation, those people have the opportunity also to hear those areas that are questionable in the book.\"<br>\nIn that sense, Fishman said, his group's approach \"is what dialogue is about.\"\n\nPointing out that \"The former president rarely speaks about his book at universities. He says he’s been invited to more than 100 campuses, but he's only visited five,\" Claire Keller reported that, during his public appearance at the University of Iowa, in Iowa City, on 18 April 2007, Carter stated: \"I wrote this book to describe the plight of the Palestinians and because I'm convinced we desperately need debate about where we are and where we ought to be going, and how to rejuvenate the non-existent peace process in the Middle East\" ... [and that] Carter says the book's objective is permanent peace for Israel and its neighbors; it’s something the former president says he’s dedicated his entire adult life to.\n\nWhile Kellett states that \"Many in attendance applaud his efforts,\" she also provides the following qualification: \"But others criticize the author, claiming his book contains factual errors and misstatements. Members of the local Jewish community say it's simply one-sided.\" She quotes Tali Ariav of the Hillel Jewish Student Center on the Iowa campus, who stated: \"'I am an Israeli so of course I served in the military, so I feel emotionally involved, but I feel every person, every American, every thinker needs to think twice about Carter's opinion, because it's not right' ...\" Nevertheless, Keller adds: \"Carter adamantly defends the accuracy of his book, saying he wrote every word himself.\"\n\nOn 3 May 2007, Carter presented a lecture and participated in a discussion relating to the book in conjunction with the Center for the Study of Democracy and Model United Nations, in association with the Center for Citizen Peacebuilding, Department of Political Science, at the University of California, Irvine. According to Carter's lecture transcript the former president, in answering a question on whether conflict between pro and anti-Israel student groups obstructs chances of peace, said, \"I think an altercation or debate or sometimes even an uncomfortable confrontation on a college campus in America is a good move in the right direction. But I would like to see the leaders of those two groups form a combined group that would take advantage of my invitation to go to Palestine and see what’s going on.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "735763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=735763", "title": "RENAMO", "text": "RENAMO\n\nThe Mozambican National Resistance (RENAMO; ) is a militant organization and political movement in Mozambique. Sponsored by the Rhodesian Central Intelligence Organisation (CIO), it was founded in 1975 as part of an anti-communist backlash against the country's ruling FRELIMO party.\n\nInitially led by André Matsangaissa, a former senior official in FRELIMO's armed wing, the movement had its roots in a menagerie of anti-FRELIMO dissident groups which mushroomed immediately prior and shortly following Mozambican independence, as well as South African and Rhodesian attempts to encourage these competing interests. It is clear that RENAMO's ranks were bolstered by Mozambican political exiles who genuinely opposed FRELIMO in principle, and a number of others who were conscripted by force. On 4 October 1992, FRELIMO and RENAMO signed the Rome General Peace Accords, ending the Mozambican Civil War.\n\nCritics of RENAMO frequently decried the movement as a \"proxy army\" of Rhodesia and later, of South Africa's apartheid government. It has been theorised that RENAMO was formed for the sole purpose of combating Mozambican support for Rhodesian insurgents. On the other hand, RENAMO was also reflective of FRELIMO's own splintering support base and dwindling popularity in the post-independence era. Following the war it has been responsible for promoting constitutional reform as well as a strong domestic private sector.\n\nIn 1984 the South African and Mozambican governments signed the Nkomati Accord, in which South Africa agreed to stop sponsoring RENAMO if the Mozambican government expelled exiled members of the African National Congress (ANC) residing there. This was consistent with the Total National Strategy then in existence whereby the carrot of infrastructural development projects would be offered as an inducement for co-operation, supported by the stick of military reprisal if guerillas of the ANC were still given succour. However, the Mozambican government did not expel the exiled members of the ANC and consequently the South African government continued funnelling financial and military resources until a permanent peace accord was reached in 1992 and was supervised by the United Nations Operation in Mozambique (ONUMOZ) until 1994. To nudge this process in the right direction a special operation was launched by the National Intelligence Service called Operation Bush Talk, which was designed to permanently end the civil war in Mozambique to stem the flow of military materiel across the porous borders into South Africa. One manifestation of this was the militia of the Inkatha Freedom Party (IFP) that was being trained and armed by the SADF Special Forces as part of Operation Marion which were being armed by weapons coming from Mozambique.\n\nThe peace accord led to the disarmament of RENAMO, to the integration of some of its fighters into the Mozambican army and to its transformation into a regular political party. It is now the main opposition party in Mozambique. At the legislative elections on 1 and 2 December 2004, the party was the main part of the Renamo-UE electoral alliance, that won 29.7% of the popular vote and 90 out of 250 seats. The presidential candidate of this alliance, Afonso Dhlakama, won 31.7% of the popular vote.\n\nRaul Domingos, negotiator at the Rome General Peace Accords and RENAMO's leader in parliament from 1994–1999, was expelled from the party in 2000, and in 2003, founded the Party for Peace, Democracy, and Development.\n\nRENAMO forces attacked an army base in Zimbabwe near Mukosa on 17 June 1987, killing seven soldiers and wounding 19. RENAMO attacked the Katiyo Tea Estate, destroying valuable property, in July and killed three men in Rushinga in August. On 30 November, RENAMO militants burned down 13 houses.\n\nBetween December 1987 and 21 January 1988 RENAMO performed 101 attacks near the Mozambique-Zimbabwe border.\n\nFollowing the end of the Mozambican Civil War, RENAMO remained linked to a Zimbabwean militant group, Chimwenje.\n\nIn October 2012, RENAMO's headquarters were relocated near Casa Banana (also named Sathunjira, RENAMO's former guerrilla base in the 1980s) in Gorongosa, where a training camp was set up for around 800 partially armed followers. Previously, the headquarters had been moved from Maputo to Nampula in 2009. RENAMO leader Afonso Dhlakama threatened to \"destroy the country\" if his political demands were not met.\n\nOn 4 April 2013, one woman and four police officers were killed, with ten policemen more injured in a RENAMO attack on a police station in the town of Muxengue. The leader of the attackers was also killed. RENAMO's security chief stated that the action was a response to previous police raids on RENAMO gatherings. Around 300 RENAMO members had remained armed since the 1992 peace deal, despite efforts to integrate them into the army or police.\n\nOn 6 April 2013, two or three civilians were killed and two women were injured when alleged RENAMO militiamen attacked a truck and a bus in Chibabava District. RENAMO denied being involved in the attack.\n\nOn 21 June, suspected RENAMO guerrillas attacked a bus in Machanga, Sofala Province, injuring an elderly woman. The incident happened two days after RENAMO threatened to paralyse key roads and the only coal export train to force the FRELIMO government to renegotiate peace terms.\n\nOn 17 October, suspected RENAMO guerrillas ambushed a military patrol near Gorongosa, RENAMO's stronghold, killing seven soldiers, according to local media. On 18 October, another clash between Mozambican Armed Forces (FADM) and RENAMO militiamen took place in Mucodza, seven kilometres away from Gorongosa. National director of defence policy in the Ministry of Defence, Colonel Cristovao Chume, claimed that the soldiers suffered no losses and that a RENAMO fighter was injured and captured by their forces. RENAMO leader Dhlakama claimed that no RENAMO fighters were killed on the attack, which, according to him, was started by the Army, and that the casualties had been suffered by the FADM. However, reporters confirmed that the bodies of two RENAMO fighters were in the local morgue of Gorongosa.\n\nOn 21 October, FADM forces captured Sathunjira base after several days of combat. RENAMO spokesman Fernando Mazanga claimed that the government forces had shelled the base with heavy weapons (artillery), and that Afonso Dhlakama had fled the base. A RENAMO statement said that the capture of the base puts an end to the 1992 peace deal. RENAMO announced that MP Armindo Milaco was killed in the government raid. On 22 October, gunmen attacked a police station in Maringué District in apparent retaliation, with no casualties reported.\n\nOn 26 October, alleged RENAMO fighters attacked civilian vehicles in the main north-south highway near Beira, killing one and injuring 10 people. RENAMO denied its implication in the attack.\n\nOn 5 September 2014 Dhlakama and president Guebuza signed a peace deal in an effort to end the two-year period of instability. The deal included integration of RENAMO forces into the army and a reform of the election oversight commission. However, after RENAMO's refusal to accept the 2014 presidential elections, problems in the implementation of the peace deal and after continued efforts by government forces to disarm RENAMO met resistance, Dhlakama broke off the peace process in August 2015. Since then there have been renewed clashes between government and RENAMO forces. Dhlakama claims there have been two attempts by the government to assassinate him.\n\nIn May 2017, RENAMO agreed to extend their truce indefinitely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "949828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=949828", "title": "Richard Lamm", "text": "Richard Lamm\n\nRichard Douglas \"Dick\" Lamm (born August 3, 1935) is an American politician, writer, and attorney. He served three terms as 38th Governor of Colorado as a Democrat (1975–1987) and ran for the Reform Party's nomination for President of the United States in 1996.\n\nLamm is a Certified Public Accountant and currently the Co-Director of the Institute for Public Policy Studies at the University of Denver.\n\nRichard Douglas Lamm was born in Madison, Wisconsin on August 3, 1935. He graduated from high school in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and attended the University of Wisconsin–Madison, where he majored in accounting. Lamm spent his college summers working as a lumberjack in Oregon, a stockboy in New York, and helping out on an ore boat. Lamm graduated from college in 1957, then served one year of active duty as a first lieutenant in the United States Army at Fort Carson in Colorado and Fort Eustis in Virginia until switching to reserve duty in 1958.\n\nFrom 1958-1960 Lamm lived in Salt Lake City, San Francisco, and Berkeley, holding jobs as an accountant, tax clerk and a law clerk.\n\nLamm attended law school at the University of California, graduated in 1961, then moved to Denver in 1962, where he worked as an accountant and then set up a law practice. Lamm took to the Colorado lifestyle, becoming an avid skier, mountain climber, hiker, and member of the Colorado Mountain Club. He joined the faculty of the University of Denver in 1969 and has been associated with the University ever since.\n\nSince 1963 he has been married to Dottie Lamm, a former airline flight attendant and newspaper columnist. In 1998 she won the Democratic nomination for the US Senate from Colorado, but lost in the general election to incumbent Republican Ben Nighthorse Campbell.\n\nLamm was selected as one of Time Magazine's \"200 Young Leaders of America\" in 1974, and won the Christian Science Monitor \"Peace 2020\" essay in 1985. In 1992, he was honored by the Denver Post and Historic Denver, Inc. as one of the \"Colorado 100\" - people who made significant contributions to Colorado and made lasting impressions on the state's history. Lamm was the recipient of the 1993 Humanist of the Year award from the American Humanist Association. He was Chairman of the Pew Health Professions Commission and a public member of the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education.\n\nIn 1964 he was elected to the Colorado House of Representatives as a Democrat from an affluent district near the University of Denver. In 1967, he drafted and succeeded in passing the nation's first liberalized abortion law. He was an early leader of the environmental movement, and was President of the First National Conference on Population and the Environment.\n\nIn 1972, as a member of the Colorado General Assembly, Lamm led the movement against Denver's hosting of the 1976 Winter Olympics. Denver had already been awarded the games, but the movement succeeded in cutting off public funding for the games, forcing the city to cancel its hosting. Innsbruck, Austria replaced Denver as the host. Lamm's successful effort made him known statewide.\n\nLamm ran for Governor of Colorado in 1974 on a platform to limit growth, and was elected. Reacting to the high cost of campaigning, he had walked the state in his campaign.\n\nOne of his acts as governor was designating musician John Denver as the Poet Laureate of Colorado.\n\nAs candidate and then governor, Lamm promised for environmental reasons to \"drive a silver stake\" through plans to build Interstate 470, a proposed circumferential highway around the southwest part of the Denver Metropolitan Area. However, continued development in the area led to increased congestion on surface streets, and the highway was later built, largely with state funds, as State Highway 470.\n\nIn 1984, his outspoken statements in support of physician-assisted suicide generated controversy, specifically over his use of the phrase \"we have a duty to die.\" Lamm later explained that he \"was essentially raising a general statement about the human condition, not beating up on the elderly,\" and that the exact phrasing in the speech was \"We've got a duty to die and get out of the way with all of our machines and artificial hearts and everything else like that and let the other society, our kids, build a reasonable life.\" His dire predictions for the future of social security and health care (\"duty to die\") earned him the nickname \"Governor Gloom\".\n\nLamm was elected Colorado governor three times. When he left office in 1987 after three terms and 12 years in the office, he was the longest-serving governor in state history (his successor, Roy Romer, matched this record).\n\nIn 1990, state party leaders tried to get Lamm to run for the U.S. Senate seat being vacated by Sen. Tim Wirth, also a Democrat, but Lamm declined. In 1992 he ran for the U.S. Senate but suffered his first political defeat. Ben Nighthorse Campbell beat him in the Democratic primary and went on to win the seat. (Nighthorse Campbell later switched to the Republican Party.)\n\nIn 1996 Lamm, while noting that he was still a registered Democrat, criticized both his own Democratic Party and the Republican Party, saying \"I think both political parties are controlled by special interest money, and I've had enough of it.\" and \"The Democrats are too close to the trial lawyers and the National Education Association. The Republicans are too close to the radical right.\"\n\nIn 1985, while still in the governor's office, he tried his hand as a novelist. The resulting novel, \"1988\", was a story about a former Democratic governor of Texas running for U.S. President on a populist, third-party ticket, declaring himself a \"progressive conservative.\" The main character bore a number of similarities to Lamm himself, in his stated political positions, his background as a Democratic governor, as well as presaging Lamm's own unsuccessful run for the Reform Party nomination in 1996. However, the main character in \"1988\" was also portrayed as a pawn of an international conspiracy to capture the White House.\n\nA voluminous writer, Lamm's other works include \"Population and the Law\" (1972), \"Some Reflections on the Balkanization of America\" (1978), \"Megatraumas: America at the Year 2000\" (1980), \"Energy Activities in the West\" (1980), \"The Angry West: A Vulnerable Land and Its Future\" (1982), \"Campaign for Quality: An Education Agenda for the 80's\" (1983), \"Pioneers and Politicians: Ten Colorado Governors in Profile\" (1984), \"Copernican Politics\" (1984), \"The American West: A poem\" (1985), \"Immigration Time Bomb: The Fragmenting of America\" (1985), \"The Lamm Administration: A Retrospective\" (1986), \"California Conspiracy\" (1988), \"Hard Choices\" (1989), \"Crisis: The Uncompetitive Society\" (1989), \"The fall and Rise of the American Economy\" (1989), \"Indicators of Decline: An article from The Futurist\" (1993), \"The Supply Factor in Health Care Cost Containment\" (1993), \"The Ethics of Excess: An article from The Hastings Center Report\" (1994), \"Health Care Workforce Reform.: An article from State Legislatures\" (1994), \"The West at Risk\" (1994), \"Futurizing America's Institutions.: An article from The Futurist\" (1996), \"The price of Modern Medicine\" (1997), \"Mountains of Colorado\" (1999), \"Government does, indeed, ration health care: An article from State Legislatures\" (1999), \"Redrawing the Ethics Map.: An article from The Hastings Center Report\" (1999), \"Vision for a Compassionate and Affordable Health System\" (2001), \"Brave New World of Health Care\" (2003), \"The Brave New World of Health Care\" (2004), \"The Challenge of an Aging Society: The Future of U.S. Health Care\" (2005), \"Two Wands, One Nation: An Essay on Race and Community in America\" (2006), \"Condition Critical: A New Moral Vision of Health Care\" (2007), and \"The Brave New World of Health Care Revisited\" (2013) with Andy Sharma, PhD.\n\nAfter leaving office, Lamm has continued to speak publicly on environmental mainly population control, immigration reduction, and health care issues.\n\nIn 2004 Lamm unsuccessfully ran for a seat on the Board of Directors of the Sierra Club. He urged that the Sierra Club advocate immigration controls as a way to limit environmental degradation due to population growth. During a 2011 interview, Lamm clarified that he believes \"legal immigration has been good for America. The success of Silicon Valley shows we need entrepreneurial immigrants with skills to bring to our country!\" \n\nLamm serves as the Chairman of the Advisory Board of the Federation for American Immigration Reform (FAIR), and on the Board of Directors of the Diversity Alliance for a Sustainable America (DASA). He is the Co-Director of the Institute for Public Policy Studies at the University of Denver.\nHe authored a book, \"The Brave New World of Health Care\", a criticism of current United States health care policies and proposals for reforming them. (Fulcrum Publishing, ) Lamm also served on the board of directors of American Water Development Inc, along with, among others, Maurice Strong, Samuel Belzberg, Alexander Crutchfield and William Ruckelshaus.\n\nIn 2005, a 2004 speech by Lamm titled \"I Have a Plan to Destroy America,\" became famous after being frequently forwarded as an email; in it he criticizes multiculturalism.\n\nIn 2006, he gave a controversial speech on the theme of his recently released book, \"Two Wands, One Nation\", advocating that black and Hispanic Americans embrace \"Japanese or Jewish values\". The essay was widely criticized by Colorado community groups and leader of his own party.\n\nLamm currently sits on the board of directors for the Energy Literacy Advocates.\n\n"}
{"id": "27997824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27997824", "title": "Sabia Dreptății", "text": "Sabia Dreptății\n\nSabia Dreptății () was one of the organized anti-Soviet groups in Bălți, Bessarabia. \n\nSabia Dreptății was initiated by students Petre Lungu and Ion Moraru from Bălți. This anti-Soviet armed resistance group was active in Bălți during the Stalinist era. \"Sabia Dreptății\" was discovered by the NKVD in 1947, based at the Pedagogical Lycée (former Ion Creangă Lycée) in Bălți. \n\nIon Moraru is well known anti-communist in Bessarabia. For one year, Ion Moraru was imprisoned in the same camp at Ekibastuz with Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4511287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4511287", "title": "Santebal", "text": "Santebal\n\nThe Santebal (សន្តិបាល), a Khmer term meaning \"keeper of the peace\", was the Special Branch of the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia.\n\nThe Santebal was in charge of internal security and running prison camps like Tuol Sleng (S-21) where thousands of people were imprisoned, tortured and killed. It was part of the Khmer Rouge organizational structure well before April 17, 1975 when the Khmer Rouge took control over Cambodia. The name is an amalgam of two words: \"santisuk\" meaning security and \"norkorbal\" meaning police.\nAs early as 1971, the Khmer Rouge established the Special Zone outside of Phnom Penh under the direction of Vorn Vet and Son Sen. Son Sen, later the Deputy Prime Minister for Defense of Democratic Kampuchea, was also in charge of the Santebal, and in that capacity he appointed Comrade Duch to run its security apparatus. Most of the Santebal's deputies, such as Comrade Chan and Comrade Pon, hailed from Kampong Thom, Duch's native province.\n\nWhen the Khmer Rouge took power in 1975, Duch moved his headquarters to Phnom Penh and reported directly to Son Sen. At that time, a small chapel in the capital was used to incarcerate the regime's prisoners, who totaled fewer than two hundred. In May 1976, Duch moved his headquarters to its final location, a former high school known as Tuol Sleng, which could hold up to 1,500 prisoners. It was at Tuol Sleng that the major purges of Khmer Rouge cadres took place and thousands of prisoners were tortured and killed. Between 1976 and 1978, 20,000 Cambodians were imprisoned at Tuol Sleng. Of this number only seven adults are known to have survived. Tuol Sleng, however, was only one of at least 150 execution centers in the country.\n\n"}
{"id": "976964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=976964", "title": "Stolypin reform", "text": "Stolypin reform\n\nThe Stolypin agrarian reforms were a series of changes to Imperial Russia's agricultural sector instituted during the tenure of Pyotr Stolypin, Chairman of the Council of Ministers (Prime Minister). Most, if not all, of these reforms were based on recommendations from a committee known as the \"Needs of Agricultural Industry Special Conference,\" which was held in Russia between 1901–1903 during the tenure of Minister of Finance Sergei Witte.\n\nThe reforms aimed to transform the traditional \"obshchina\" form of Russian agriculture, which bore some similarities to the open-field system of Britain. Serfs who had been liberated by the emancipation reform of 1861 lacked the financial ability to leave their new lands, as they owed money to the state for periods of up to 49 years. Perceived drawbacks of the \"obshchina\" system included collective ownership, scattered land allotments based on family size, and a significant level of control by the family elder. Stolypin, as a staunch conservative, also sought to eliminate the commune system — known as the \"mir\" — and to reduce radicalism among the peasants, thus preventing further political unrest such as that which occurred during the Revolution of 1905. Stolypin believed that tying the peasants to their own private land-holdings would produce profit-minded and politically conservative farmers like those living in parts of western Europe. Stolypin referred to his own programs as a \"wager on the strong and sober\".\n\nThe reforms began with and introduced the unconditional right of individual landownership (Ukase of November 9, 1906). Stolypin's reforms abolished the \"obshchina\" system and replaced it with a capitalist-oriented form highlighting private ownership and consolidated modern farmsteads.\n\nThe multifaceted reforms introduced the following:\n\nThe state implemented the Stolypin agrarian reforms in a comprehensive campaign from 1906 through 1914. This system was not a command economy like that found in the Soviet Union in the 1920s, but rather a continuation of the modified state capitalism program begun under Sergei Witte. Stolypin's program differed from Witte's reforms not in the rapid push — which was a characteristic also found in the Witte reforms — but in the fact that Stolypin's reforms were to the agricultural sector, including improvements to the rights of individuals on a broad level and had the backing of the police. These reforms laid the groundwork for a market-based agricultural system for Russian peasants.\n\nThe principal ministers involved in the implementation of the Stolypin agrarian reforms included Stolypin himself as Interior Minister and Prime Minister, Alexander Krivoshein as Agriculture and State Property Minister, and Vladimir Kokovtsov as Finance Minister and Stolypin's successor as Prime Minister.\n\nThe Soviet agrarian program in the 1920s reversed the Stolypin reforms.\n\nAs a result of the expansion of the Trans-Siberian Railroad and other railroads east of the Ural Mountains and the Caspian Sea, migration to Siberia increased. Thompson estimated that between 1890 and 1914 that over 10 million persons migrated freely from western Russia to areas east of the Urals.\n\nThis was encouraged by the Trans-Siberian Railroad Committee, which was personally headed by Tsar Nicholas II. The Stolypin agrarian reforms included resettlement benefits for peasants who moved to Siberia. An emigration department was created in 1906 at the ministry of agriculture. It organized resettlement and assisted the settlers during their first years in the new settlements. The settlers received on average 16.5 hectares of land per man. The total area allocated was 21 million hectares. Migrants received a small state subsidy, exemption from some taxes, and advice from state agencies specifically developed to help with peasant resettlement.\n\nIn part thanks to these initiatives, approximately 2.8 million of the 10 million migrants to Siberia relocated between 1908 and 1913. This increased the population of the regions east of the Urals by 2.5 times before the outbreak of World War I.\n\nA number of new types of cooperative assistance were developed as part of the Stolypin agrarian reforms, including financial-credit cooperation, production cooperation, and consumer cooperation. Many elements of Stolypin's cooperation-assistance programs were later incorporated into the early agrarian programs of the Soviet Union, reflecting the lasting influence of Stolypin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35050234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35050234", "title": "The Open Communication", "text": "The Open Communication\n\nThe Open Communication Universities Debating Network (/ ) was founded in 1997 in Belgrade. Founded by both professors and students, it was established as an organization which promotes civic discourse, non-violent communication, critical thinking, argumentative presentation of ideas, public speaking as a form of free speech and the use of parliamentary debate as an educational and promotional tool.\n\nPreserving the same goals, Open Communication has been working in three University centers (Belgrade, Novi Sad, Niš) and now has more than 150 active members out of over 850 students that passed its parliamentary debate training program. It currently encompasses 5 debate clubs, among which the Belgrade Law School Debate Club was formed first in 1997. The Club has been functioning since its foundation even during the times when its activities were banned. During that period the Law School Debate Club organized its activities as part of the Alternative Academic Network and Belgrade Open School. However, since the democratic changes in Serbia in 2000, the Law School Debate Club has continuously received generous financial and institutional support from the School of Law.\n\nOpen Communication is a recognized member of International Debate Education Association (IDEA) and the Serbian representative in the European Universities Debating Council, currently holding the office of Vice President, and it successfully cooperates with numerous international, regional and local organizations through international tournaments and seminars.\n\nThe primary goals and activities of this organization include: \n\nOrganizing public debates has been one of the priorities of Open Communication for the last several years. Raising public awareness is one of the crucial aims of our organization, as well as educating students and the society as a whole that peaceful communication through arguments is more efficient, more creative and will bring them closer to their goals.\n\nOpen Communication is also active in promoting debating around the region. Trainers who are members of the network have held workshops in Austria, Hungary, Republic of Macedonia and Montenegro over the past year.\n\n"}
{"id": "355297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355297", "title": "Tiocfaidh ár lá", "text": "Tiocfaidh ár lá\n\nTiocfaidh ár lá () is an Irish language phrase which translates as \"our day will come\", referring to a potential future united Ireland.\n\nThe literal English phrase \"our day will come\" has been used in various contexts. In the context of Irish literature, James Joyce's \"A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man\", features the nationalist Michael Davin (based on George Clancy) saying Irish freedom fighters \"died for their ideals, Stevie. Our day will come yet, believe me.\"\n\nThe Irish phrase \"tiocfaidh ár lá\" is attributed to Provisional IRA prisoner Bobby Sands, who uses it in several writings smuggled out of the Maze Prison. It is the last sentence of \"One Day in my Life\", the diary he kept of the 1981 hunger strike in which he died, published in 1983. Diarmait Mac Giolla Chríost antedates this to a pamphlet published 1975–77 by Gerry Adams of his experiences in the Maze. Many republicans learned Irish in prison (a phenomenon known as \"Jailtacht\", a pun on Gaeltacht), and conversed regularly with each other through Irish, both for cultural reasons and to keep secrets from the wardens. The Irish language revival movement has often overlapped with Irish nationalism, particularly in Northern Ireland. \"Tiocfaidh ár lá\" has been called \"the battle cry of the blanketmen\". The upsurge in republican consciousness in the wake of the hunger strikes also increased awareness of the Irish language in republican areas.\n\nThe slogan has been used by Sinn Féin representatives, appeared on graffiti and political murals, and been shouted by Provisional IRA defendants being convicted in British and Irish courts, and by their supporters in the public gallery. Patrick Magee said it after being sentenced in 1986 for the 1984 Brighton hotel bombing. At the 2018 Sinn Féin ard fheis, new party leader Mary Lou McDonald concluded her speech with \"tiocfaidh ár lá\". The phrase, which was not on the script circulated in advance, was criticised by politicians from Fianna Fáil (\"hark back to a very dark time\"), Fine Gael (\"irresponsible\"), and the Ulster Unionist Party (\"stale rhetoric\").\n\nMichael Stone got past the republican security cordon to commit the 1988 Milltown Cemetery attack by saying \"tiocfaidh ár lá\".\n\nThe 1992 and 1993 editions of Macmillan's \"The Student Book: The Indispensable Applicant's Guide to UK Colleges, Polytechnics and Universities\" advised potential University of Ulster students that \"Tiocfaioh ar la\" [sic] was a common greeting on campus and meant \"pleased to meet you\". This error, suspected to be the result of a prank, was expunged from the 1994 edition.\n\nGearóid Mac Lochlainn, a Belfast-born Irish-language poet, uses the phrase in a 2002 poem, 'Ag Siopadóireacht' (\"Shopping\"), characterised by Mac Giolla Chríost as \"the voice of youthful rebellion, ... of hip-hop\". In Mac Lochlainn's own English translation of his poem, \"Tiocfaidh ár lá\" is left untranslated.\n\n\"Tiocfaidh Ár Lá\" (TÁL) is the name of a fanzine for Celtic F.C.'s Irish republican ultras. It was established in 1991, at which time Celtic was enduring a period of prolonged inferiority to Rangers F.C., its Old Firm rivals, giving \"our day will come\" an extra resonance.\n\nThe 2007 arrest of Irish-language activist Máire Nic an Bhaird in Belfast was allegedly in part for saying \"tiocfaidh ár lá\" to Police Service of Northern Ireland officers, although she claimed to have said \"tiocfaidh bhur lá\" (\"your day will come\").\n\nIn 2017, the Fair Employment Tribunal awarded damages to a Catholic employee who had been dismissed after taking sick leave in response to a Protestant manager shouting \"Tiocfaidh ár lá\" at her.\n\nSimilar slogans include:\n\n\nParodies of \"tiocfaidh ár lá\" include:\n\n"}
{"id": "51103884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51103884", "title": "Tomlinson Report (South Africa)", "text": "Tomlinson Report (South Africa)\n\nThe Tomlinson Report was a 1954 study commissioned by the South African government into the economic viability of the 'reserves' (later the bantustans) into which the government intended to confine the black population. The Report found that the reserves were incapable of supporting South Africa's black population without significant enlargement and state investment.\n\nIn 1950, the National Party government, then under Prime Minister D. F. Malan, set up a commission to devise \"a comprehensive scheme for the rehabilitation of the Native Areas with a view to developing within them a social structure in keeping with the culture of the Native and based upon effective socio-economic planning\". It was by chaired by Professor Frederick R. Tomlinson, who was assisted by a panel comprising mostly members of the South African Bureau for Racial Affairs (SABRA), a conservative think tank at Stellenbosch University. The most important contributors to the Report, besides Tomlinson, were Nic Olivier and Jan Sadie.\nThe Tomlinson Report was presented to the government in October 1954 and ran, in its unabridged form, to 3,755 pages in 18 volumes. It concluded that if the reserves were to support the growing black population the government would need to invest at least £104 million over the following decade. Land additional to that set aside in the 1936 Land Act would need to be purchased and annexed to the reserves, and the state would need to develop industries in and near the reserves to create an additional 300,000 jobs. Even then, the Report said, the reserves would be able to accommodate only two-thirds of South Africa's projected black population by the year 2000. The Report also concluded that the traditional 'tribal' systems of authority used by the government to rule the reserves were not suitable for a modern industrial state.\n\nThe report was strongly criticised by Hendrik Verwoerd, then Minister of Native Affairs and staunch backer of 'total apartheid', since it cast doubt on the viability of a crucial plank of that scheme. He refused to implement almost all of its proposals. But it was also criticised by organisations like the African National Congress for its conservative founding assumption that the way forward for South Africa was to make the reserves capable of supporting total racial segregation, rather than to move towards integration and equal civil rights within a united South Africa.\n\nSome have said that the Report was a turning point in South African history, which would have been dramatically different if Verwoerd had accepted the Report. But others have pointed out that the Report's recommendations, even by its own lights, would have been insufficient to make the reserves viable; and moreover the black population grew much faster than the commission had predicted.\n"}
{"id": "50803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50803", "title": "Victimless crime", "text": "Victimless crime\n\nA victimless crime is an illegal act that typically either directly involves only the perpetrator or occurs between consenting adults; because it is consensual in nature, there is arguably no true victim. Examples of these types of crimes include possession of illegal contraband and atypical sexual behavior.\n\nIn most countries, current victimless crimes include recreational drug use, while some also include prostitution. However, there is controversy surrounding this. Edwin Schur and Hugo Adam Bedau state in their book \"Victimless Crimes: Two Sides of a Controversy\" that \"some of these laws produce secondary crime, and all create new 'criminals,' many of whom are otherwise law-abiding citizens and people in authority.\"\n\nIn politics, a lobbyist or an activist might use this phrase with the implication that the law in question should be abolished.\n\nVictimless crimes are, in the harm principle of John Stuart Mill, \"victimless\" from a position that considers the individual as the sole sovereign, to the exclusion of more abstract bodies such as a community or a state against which criminal offenses may be directed.\n\nThree characteristics can be used to identify whether a crime is victimless crime – if the act is excessive, is indicative of a distinct pattern of behavior, and its adverse effects impact only the person who has engaged in it – according to the University of Chicago's vice scholar, Jim Leitzel.\n\nIn theory, each polity determines for itself the laws it wants to have, so as to maximize the happiness of its citizens. As knowledge progresses and behavior changes, and values change as well, laws in most countries lag badly behind social changes. Once it is obvious to a vast majority that the law is unnecessary at best, the law, until it is repealed, will be prohibiting a victimless crime.\n\nMany victimless crimes begin because of a desire to obtain illegal products or services that are in high demand. Criminal penalties thus tend to limit the supply more than the demand, driving up the black-market price and creating monopoly profits for those criminals who remain in business. This \"crime tariff\" encourages the growth of sophisticated and well-organized criminal groups. Organized crime in turn tends to diversify into other areas of crime. Large profits provide ample funds for bribery of public officials, as well as capital for diversification.\n\nThe War on Drugs is a commonly cited example of prosecution of victimless crime. The reasoning behind this is that drug use does not directly harm other people. It is argued that the criminalization of drugs leads to highly inflated prices for drugs. For example, Bedau and Schur found in 1974 that \"In England the pharmacy cost of heroin [was] 0.06 cents per grain. In the United States street price [was] $30-90 per grain.\" This inflation in price is believed to drive addicts to commit crimes such as theft and robbery, which are thought to be inherently damaging to society, in order to be able to purchase the drugs on which they are dependent.\n\nIn addition to the creation of a black market for drugs, the War on Drugs is argued by proponents of legalization to reduce the workforce by damaging the ability of those convicted to find work. It is reasoned that this reduction of the workforce is ultimately harmful to an economy reliant on labor. The number of drug arrests increases every year. In a poll taken by the Bureau of Justice Statistics between 1980 and 2009, \"[over a] 30-year period...[arrest] rates for drug possession or use doubled for whites and tripled for blacks.\"\n\nMany activities that were once considered crimes are no longer illegal in some countries, at least in part because of their status as victimless crimes.\n\nTwo large categories of victimless crimes are sexual pleasure and recreational drug use (drug pleasure). On the first, \n\nMarijuana use is forbidden by law in Australia but is the most “widely used illicit drug” in the country, just as it is in countries such as the United States and New Zealand. Prohibition of alcohol in the United States, repealed in 1933, is considered a failed \"social experiment\" because many citizens ignored what it stipulated, turning to home-made spirits in lieu of licensed alcoholic drinks and resultantly making problems worse. In the United States today, tension over marijuana legalization is in response the current marijuana prohibition in most states, but there are efforts to legalize cannabis in many countries such as the United States and Australia, as its legalization has the potential to greatly increase revenue.\n\nProstitution is legal in many countries, though usually restricted. The Netherlands legalized prostitution in 1999, and was one of the first countries to do so. As of 2012, however, it has been considering policy changes to severely restrict it.\n\nAdultery (sexual acts between a married person and a person other than the spouse) and fornication (sexual acts between unmarried people) have not been prosecuted in the United States for over 50 years, although the laws against them, like those against sodomy, are still on the books in several states. However, because sodomy laws were struck down as unconstitutional by the U.S. Supreme Court in \"Lawrence v. Texas\", the laws against fornication would also be unconstitutional as was recognized by the Supreme Court of Virginia in \"Martin v. Ziherl\".\n\nThe degradation of societal moral standards is a major concern among those who oppose the legalization of victimless crime. However, punishing citizens solely for their choice to engage in victimless, immoral acts is a difficult task. While the United States' typical response to crimes is retroactive, the illegality of victimless crimes is a more preventative approach to justice and is highly controversial.\n\nControversies over victimless crime deal mostly with the question of whether a crime can ever actually be victimless. With relation to drugs and their pathway to consumption, the impact of the drug trade and liability laws on drug dealers, their families, and other unforeseen actors may end in victimization. The possession of both adult and child pornography is also often considered to be a victimless crime, but the victimization that adults and children often undergo during its production is typically unacknowledged.\n\nIn contrast, the argument that legal powers must be restrained to allow citizen autonomy, free from impediments in making voluntary, victimless choices that may or may not be perceived as morally wrong, also exists. With the incorporation of preventative law, such as sex offender registries and anti-social behavior orders, comes a loss of distinction between criminal and civil law because victimless crime is typically difficult to categorize and criminalize. This is problematic because it causes a distortion of traditional procedures found within the criminal and civil of aspects of United States law by enabling confusion and procedural interchangeability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27820611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27820611", "title": "Young Kashgar Party", "text": "Young Kashgar Party\n\nYoung Kashgar Party was a Turkic Nationalist Uighur party which existed in 1933-1934. It helped found the First East Turkestan Republic. It was anti Chinese and anti Chinese Muslim. The uighur military leader Timur Beg and the Khotan Emirs Muhammad Amin Bughra, Abdullah Bughra, and Nur Ahmad Jan Bughra formed an alliance with the Young Kashgar Party. It convened a parliament of 40 members, and sent two delegates to Khoja Niyaz. The Committee for National Revolution was another affiliated Turkic nationalist group, which was anti-Chinese, anti-Chinese Muslim, anti-communist, and anti-Christian.\n\n"}
{"id": "34484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34484", "title": "Zionism", "text": "Zionism\n\nZionism ( \"Tsiyyonut\" after \"Zion\") is the national movement of the Jewish people that supports the re-establishment of a Jewish homeland in the territory defined as the historic Land of Israel (roughly corresponding to Canaan, the Holy Land, or the region of Palestine). Modern Zionism emerged in the late 19th century in Central and Eastern Europe as a national revival movement, both in reaction to newer waves of antisemitism and as an imitative response to other nationalist movements. Soon after this, most leaders of the movement associated the main goal with creating the desired state in Palestine, then an area controlled by the Ottoman Empire.\n\nUntil 1948, the primary goals of Zionism were the re-establishment of Jewish sovereignty in the Land of Israel, ingathering of the exiles, and liberation of Jews from the antisemitic discrimination and persecution that they experienced during their diaspora. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, Zionism continues primarily to advocate on behalf of Israel and to address threats to its continued existence and security.\n\nA religious variety of Zionism supports Jews upholding their Jewish identity defined as adherence to religious Judaism, opposes the assimilation of Jews into other societies, and has advocated the return of Jews to Israel as a means for Jews to be a majority nation in their own state. A variety of Zionism, called cultural Zionism, founded and represented most prominently by Ahad Ha'am, fostered a secular vision of a Jewish \"spiritual center\" in Israel. Unlike Herzl, the founder of political Zionism, Ahad Ha'am strived for Israel to be \"a Jewish state and not merely a state of Jews\".\n\nAdvocates of Zionism view it as a national liberation movement for the repatriation of a persecuted people residing as minorities in a variety of nations to their ancestral homeland. Critics of Zionism view it as a colonialist, racist and exceptionalist ideology that led advocates to violence during Mandatory Palestine, followed by the exodus of Palestinians, and the subsequent denial of their right to return to property lost during the 1948 war.\n\nThe term \"Zionism\" is derived from the word Zion ( ,\"Tzi-yon\"), referring to Jerusalem. Throughout eastern Europe in the late 19th century, numerous grassroots groups were promoting the national resettlement of the Jews in their homeland, as well as the revitalization and cultivation of the Hebrew language. These groups were collectively called the \"Lovers of Zion\" and were seen to encounter a growing Jewish movement toward assimilation. The first use of the term is attributed to the Austrian Nathan Birnbaum, founder of the \"Kadimah\" nationalist Jewish students' movement; he used the term in 1890 in his journal \"Selbstemanzipation!\" (\"Self-Emancipation\"), itself named almost identically to Leon Pinsker's 1882 book \"Auto-Emancipation\".\n\nThe common denominator among all Zionists is the claim to Eretz Israel as the national homeland of the Jews and as the legitimate focus for Jewish national self-determination. It is based on historical ties and religious traditions linking the Jewish people to the Land of Israel. Zionism does not have a uniform ideology, but has evolved in a dialogue among a plethora of ideologies: General Zionism, Religious Zionism, Labor Zionism, Revisionist Zionism, Green Zionism, etc.\n\nAfter almost two millennia of the Jewish diaspora residing in various countries without a national state, the Zionist movement was founded in the late 19th century by secular Jews, largely as a response by Ashkenazi Jews to rising antisemitism in Europe, exemplified by the Dreyfus affair in France and the anti-Jewish pogroms in the Russian Empire. The political movement was formally established by the Austro-Hungarian journalist Theodor Herzl in 1897 following the publication of his book \"Der Judenstaat\" (\"The Jewish State\"). At that time, the movement sought to encourage Jewish migration to Ottoman Palestine.\nAlthough initially one of several Jewish political movements offering alternative responses to assimilation and antisemitism, Zionism expanded rapidly. In its early stages, supporters considered setting up a Jewish state in the historic territory of Palestine. After World War II and the destruction of Jewish life in Central and Eastern Europe where these alternative movements were rooted, it became dominant in the thinking about a Jewish national state.\n\nCreating an alliance with Great Britain and securing support for some years for Jewish emigration to Palestine, Zionists also recruited European Jews to immigrate there, especially Jews who lived in areas of the Russian Empire where anti-semitism was raging. The alliance with Britain was strained as the latter realized the implications of the Jewish movement for Arabs in Palestine, but the Zionists persisted. The movement was eventually successful in establishing Israel on May 14, 1948 (5 Iyyar 5708 in the Hebrew calendar), as the homeland for the Jewish people. The proportion of the world's Jews living in Israel has steadily grown since the movement emerged. By the early 21st century, more than 40% of the world's Jews lived in Israel, more than in any other country. These two outcomes represent the historical success of Zionism, and are unmatched by any other Jewish political movement in the past 2,000 years. In some academic studies, Zionism has been analyzed both within the larger context of diaspora politics and as an example of modern national liberation movements.\n\nZionism also sought assimilation of Jews into the modern world. As a result of the diaspora, many of the Jewish people remained outsiders within their adopted countries and became detached from modern ideas. So-called \"assimilationist\" Jews desired complete integration into European society. They were willing to downplay their Jewish identity and in some cases to abandon traditional views and opinions in an attempt at modernization and assimilation into the modern world. A less extreme form of assimilation was called cultural synthesis. Those in favor of cultural synthesis desired continuity and only moderate evolution, and were concerned that Jews should not lose their identity as a people. \"Cultural synthesists\" emphasized both a need to maintain traditional Jewish values and faith, and a need to conform to a modernist society, for instance, in complying with work days and rules.\n\nIn 1975, the United Nations General Assembly passed Resolution 3379, which designated Zionism as \"a form of racism and racial discrimination\". The resolution was repealed in 1991 by replacing Resolution 3379 with Resolution 46/86. Opposition to Zionism in principle has also sometimes been called racist and has been characterized as fostering the segregation of peoples that should seek peaceful coexistence.\n\nZionism was established with the political goal of creating a Jewish state in order to create a nation where Jews could be the majority, rather than the minority which they were in a variety of nations in the diaspora. Theodor Herzl, the ideological father of Zionism, considered Antisemitism to be an eternal feature of all societies in which Jews lived as minorities, and that only a separation could allow Jews to escape eternal persecution. \"Let them give us sovereignty over a piece of the Earth's surface, just sufficient for the needs of our people, then we will do the rest!\" he proclaimed exposing his plan. \n\nHerzl proposed two possible destinations to colonize, Argentina and Palestine. He preferred Argentina for its vast and sparsely populated territory and temperate climate, but conceded that Palestine would have greater attraction because of the historic ties of Jews with that area. He also accepted to evaluate Joseph Chamberlain's proposal for possible Jewish settlement in Great Britain's East African colonies.\n\nAliyah (migration, literally \"ascent\") to the Land of Israel is a recurring theme in Jewish prayers. Rejection of life in the Diaspora is a central assumption in Zionism. Supporters of Zionism believed that Jews in the Diaspora were prevented from their full growth in Jewish individual and national life.\n\nZionists generally preferred to speak Hebrew, a Semitic language that developed under conditions of freedom in ancient Judah, and worked to modernize and adapt it for everyday use. Zionists sometimes refused to speak Yiddish, a language they thought had developed in the context of European persecution. Once they moved to Israel, many Zionists refused to speak their (diasporic) mother tongues and adopted new, Hebrew names. Hebrew was preferred not only for ideological reasons, but also because it allowed all citizens of the new state to have a common language, thus furthering the political and cultural bonds among Zionists.\n\nMajor aspects of the Zionist idea are represented in the Israeli Declaration of Independence:\n\nSince the first centuries of the CE, most Jews have lived outside the Land of Israel (Eretz Israel, better known as Palestine), although there has been a constant minority presence of Jews. According to Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, Eretz Israel is a land promised to the Jews by God according to the Hebrew and Greek Bibles and the Quran, respectively. The Diaspora began in 586 BCE during the Babylonian occupation of Israel. The Babylonians destroyed the First Temple, which was central to Jewish culture at the time. After the 1st century Great Revolt and the 2nd century Bar Kokhba revolt, the Roman Empire expelled the Jews from Judea, changing the name to \"Syria Palaestina.\" The Bar Kokhba revolt caused a spike in anti-Semitism and Jewish persecution. The ensuing exile from Judea greatly increased the percent of Jews who were dispersed throughout the Diaspora instead of living in their original home.\n\nZion is a hill near Jerusalem (now in the city), widely symbolizing the Land of Israel.\n\nIn the middle of the 16th century, Joseph Nasi, with the support of the Ottoman Empire, tried to gather the Portuguese Jews, first to migrate to Cyprus, then owned by the Republic of Venice, and later to resettle in Tiberias. Nasi – who never converted to Islam – eventually obtained the highest medical position in the empire, and actively participated in court life. He convinced Suleiman I to intervene with the Pope on behalf of Ottoman-subject Portuguese Jews imprisoned in Ancona. Between the 4th and 19th centuries, Nasi's was the only practical attempt to establish some sort of Jewish political center in Palestine.\n\nIn the 17th century Sabbatai Zevi (1626–1676) announced himself as the Messiah and gained many Jews to his side, forming a base in Salonika. He first tried to establish a settlement in Gaza, but moved later to Smyrna. After deposing the old rabbi Aaron Lapapa in the spring of 1666, the Jewish community of Avignon, France prepared to emigrate to the new kingdom. The readiness of the Jews of the time to believe the messianic claims of Sabbatai Zevi may be largely explained by the desperate state of Central European Jewry in the mid-17th century. The bloody pogroms of Bohdan Khmelnytsky had wiped out one-third of the Jewish population and destroyed many centers of Jewish learning and communal life.\n\nIn the 19th century, a current in Judaism supporting a return to Zion grew in popularity, particularly in Europe, where antisemitism and hostility toward Jews were growing. The idea of returning to Palestine was rejected by the conferences of rabbis held in that epoch. Individual efforts supported the emigration of groups of Jews to Palestine, pre-Zionist Aliyah, even before 1897, the year considered as the start of practical Zionism.\n\nThe Reformed Jews rejected this idea of a return to Zion. The conference of rabbis, at Frankfurt am Main, July 15–28, 1845, deleted from the ritual all prayers for a return to Zion and a restoration of a Jewish state. The Philadelphia Conference, 1869, followed the lead of the German rabbis and decreed that the Messianic hope of Israel is \"the union of all the children of God in the confession of the unity of God\". The Pittsburgh Conference, 1885, reiterated this Messianic idea of reformed Judaism, expressing in a resolution that \"we consider ourselves no longer a nation, but a religious community; and we therefore expect neither a return to Palestine, nor a sacrificial worship under the sons of Aaron, nor the restoration of any of the laws concerning a Jewish state\".\n\nJewish settlements were established in the upper Mississippi region by W.D. Robinson in 1819. Others were developed near Jerusalem in 1850, by the American Consul Warder Cresson, a convert to Judaism. Cresson was tried and condemned for lunacy in a suit filed by his wife and son. They asserted that only a lunatic would convert to Judaism from Christianity. After a second trial, based on the centrality of American 'freedom of faith' issues and antisemitism, Cresson won the bitterly contested suit. He emigrated to Ottoman Palestine and established an agricultural colony in the Valley of Rephaim of Jerusalem. He hoped to \"prevent any attempts being made to take advantage of the necessities of our poor brethren ... (that would) ... FORCE them into a pretended conversion.\"\n\nMoral but not practical efforts were made in Prague to organize a Jewish emigration, by Abraham Benisch and Moritz Steinschneider in 1835. In the United States, Mordecai Noah attempted to establish a Jewish refuge opposite Buffalo, New York on Grand Isle, 1825. These early Jewish nation building efforts of Cresson, Benisch, Steinschneider and Noah failed.\nSir Moses Montefiore, famous for his intervention in favor of Jews around the world, including the attempt to rescue Edgardo Mortara, established a colony for Jews in Palestine. In 1854, his friend Judah Touro bequeathed money to fund Jewish residential settlement in Palestine. Montefiore was appointed executor of his will, and used the funds for a variety of projects, including building in 1860 the first Jewish residential settlement and almshouse outside of the old walled city of Jerusalem—today known as \"Mishkenot Sha'ananim.\" Laurence Oliphant failed in a like attempt to bring to Palestine the Jewish proletariat of Poland, Lithuania, Romania, and the Turkish Empire (1879 and 1882).\n\nThe official beginning of the construction of the New Yishuv in Palestine is usually dated to the arrival of the Bilu group in 1882, who commenced the First Aliyah. In the following years, Jewish immigration to Palestine started in earnest. Most immigrants came from the Russian Empire, escaping the frequent pogroms and state-led persecution in what are now Ukraine and Poland. They founded a number of agricultural settlements with financial support from Jewish philanthropists in Western Europe. Additional Aliyahs followed the Russian Revolution and its eruption of violent pogroms, as well as the Nazi persecution of the 1930s. At the end of the 19th century, Jews were a small minority in Palestine.\n\nIn the 1890s, Theodor Herzl infused Zionism with a new ideology and practical urgency, leading to the First Zionist Congress at Basel in 1897, which created the World Zionist Organization (WZO). Herzl's aim was to initiate necessary preparatory steps for the development of a Jewish state. Herzl's attempts to reach a political agreement with the Ottoman rulers of Palestine were unsuccessful and he sought the support of other governments. The WZO supported small-scale settlement in Palestine; it focused on strengthening Jewish feeling and consciousness and on building a worldwide federation.\n\nThe Russian Empire, with its long record of state-organized genocide and ethnic cleansing (\"pogroms\"), was widely regarded as the historic enemy of the Jewish people. The Zionist movement's headquarters were located in Berlin, as many of its leaders were German Jews who spoke German. Given Russia's anti-semitism, at the start of World War I, most Jews (and Zionists) supported Germany in its war with Russia.\n\nThroughout the first decade of the Zionist movement, there were several instances where Zionist figures supported a Jewish state in places outside Palestine, such as Uganda and Argentina. Even Theodor Herzl, the founder of political Zionism was initially content with any Jewish self-governed state. However, other Zionists emphasized the memory, emotion and myth linking Jews to the Land of Israel. Despite using Zion as the name of the movement (a name after the Jebusite fortress in Jerusalem, which became synonymous with Jerusalem), Palestine only became Herzl's main focus after his Zionist manifesto 'Judenstaat' was published in 1896, but even then he was hesitant.\n\nIn 1903, British Colonial Secretary Joseph Chamberlain offered Herzl 5,000 square miles in the Uganda Protectorate for Jewish settlement. Called the Uganda Scheme, it was introduced the same year to the World Zionist Organization's Congress at its sixth meeting, where a fierce debate ensued. Some groups felt that accepting the scheme would make it more difficult to establish a Jewish state in Palestine, the African land was described as an \"ante-chamber to the Holy Land\". It was decided to send a commission to investigate the proposed land by 295 to 177 votes, with 132 abstaining. The following year, congress sent a delegation to inspect the plateau. A temperate climate due to its high elevation, was thought to be suitable for European settlement. However, the area was populated by a large number of Maasai, who did not seem to favour an influx of Europeans. Furthermore, the delegation found it to be filled with lions and other animals.\n\nAfter Herzl died in 1904, the Congress decided on the fourth day of its seventh session in July 1905 to decline the British offer and, according to Adam Rovner, \"direct all future settlement efforts solely to Palestine\". Israel Zangwill's Jewish Territorialist Organization aimed for a Jewish state anywhere, having been established in 1903 in response to the Uganda Scheme, was supported by a number of the Congress's delegates. Following the vote, which had been proposed by Max Nordau, Zangwill charged Nordau that he “will be charged before the bar of history,” and his supporters blamed the Russian voting bloc of Menachem Ussishkin for the outcome of the vote.\n\nThe subsequent departure of the JTO from the Zionist Organization had little impact. The Zionist Socialist Workers Party was also an organization that favored the idea of a Jewish territorial autonomy outside of Palestine.\n\nAs an alternative to Zionism, Soviet authorities established a Jewish Autonomous Oblast in 1934, which remains extant as the only autonomous oblast of Russia.\n\nLobbying by Russian Jewish immigrant Chaim Weizmann together with fear that American Jews would encourage the USA to support Germany in the war against communist Russia, culminated in the British government's Balfour Declaration of 1917. \n\nIt endorsed the creation of a Jewish homeland in Palestine, as follows:\nIn 1922, the League of Nations adopted the declaration, and granted to Britain the Palestine Mandate:\n\nWeizmann's role in obtaining the Balfour Declaration led to his election as the Zionist movement's leader. He remained in that role until 1948, and then was elected as the first President of Israel after the nation gained independence.\n\nA number of high-level representatives of the international Jewish women's community participated in the First World Congress of Jewish Women, which was held in Vienna, Austria, in May 1923. One of the main resolutions was: \"It appears ... to be the duty of all Jews to co-operate in the social-economic reconstruction of Palestine and to assist in the settlement of Jews in that country.\"\n\nJewish migration to Palestine and widespread Jewish land purchases from feudal landlords contributed to landlessness among Palestinian Arabs, fueling unrest. Riots erupted in Palestine in 1920, 1921 and 1929, in which both Jews and Arabs were killed. Britain was responsible for the Palestinian mandate and, after the Balfour Declaration, it supported Jewish immigration in principle. But, in response to the violent events noted above, the Peel Commission published a report proposing new provisions and restrictions in Palestine.\n\nIn 1927, Ukrainian Jew Yitzhak Lamdan, wrote an epic poem titled \"Masada\" to reflect the plight of the Jews, calling for a \"last stand\". Upon the German adoption of the swastika, Theodore Newman Kaufman, bent on provoking a race war and eliminating his perception of \"inbred Germanism\", published \"Germany Must Perish!\" Anti-German articles, such as the \"Daily Express\" calling for an \"Anti-Nazi boycott\", in response to German antisemitism were published prior to Adolf Hitler's rise, as well. This has given birth to the conspiracy theory that Jews started the holocaust, although the Nazi Propaganda Minister Joseph Goebbels was largely responsible for ignoring the patriotic Jew, and for instead promoting anti-German materials as \"evidence\" that the Jews needed to be eradicated.\n\nIn 1933, Hitler came to power in Germany, and in 1935 the Nuremberg Laws made German Jews (and later Austrian and Czech Jews) stateless refugees. Similar rules were applied by the many Nazi allies in Europe. The subsequent growth in Jewish migration and the impact of Nazi propaganda aimed at the Arab world led to the 1936–1939 Arab revolt in Palestine. Britain established the Peel Commission to investigate the situation. The commission did not consider the situation of Jews in Europe, but called for a two-state solution and compulsory transfer of populations. Britain rejected this solution and instead implemented the White Paper of 1939. This planned to end Jewish immigration by 1944 and to allow no more than 75,000 additional Jewish migrants. This was disastrous to European Jews already being gravely discriminated against and in need of a place to seek refuge. The British maintained this policy until the end of the Mandate.\n\nThe growth of the Jewish community in Palestine and the devastation of European Jewish life sidelined the World Zionist Organization. The Jewish Agency for Palestine under the leadership of David Ben-Gurion increasingly dictated policy with support from American Zionists who provided funding and influence in Washington, D.C., including via the highly effective American Palestine Committee.\nDuring World War II, as the horrors of the Holocaust became known, the Zionist leadership formulated the One Million Plan, a reduction from Ben-Gurion's previous target of two million immigrants. Following the end of the war, a massive wave of stateless Jews, mainly Holocaust survivors, began migrating to Palestine in small boats in defiance of British rules. The Holocaust united much of the rest of world Jewry behind the Zionist project. The British either imprisoned these Jews in Cyprus or sent them to the British-controlled Allied Occupation Zones in Germany. The British, having faced the 1936–1939 Arab revolt against mass Jewish immigration into Palestine, were now facing opposition by Zionist groups in Palestine for subsequent restrictions. In January 1946 the Anglo-American Committee of Inquiry was a joint British and American committee set up to examine the political, economic and social conditions in Palestine as they bore upon the problem of Jewish immigration and settlement and the well-being of the peoples living there; to consult representatives of Arabs and Jews, and to make other recommendations 'as necessary' for ad interim handling of these problems as well as for their eventual solution. Ultimately the Committee's plans were rejected by both Arabs and Jews; and Britain decided to refer the problem to the United Nations.\n\nWith the German invasion of Russia in 1941, Stalin reversed his long-standing opposition to Zionism, and tried to mobilize worldwide Jewish support for the Soviet war effort. A Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee was set up in Moscow. Many thousands of Jewish refugees fled the Nazis and entered the Soviet Union during the war, where they reinvigorated Jewish religious activities and opened new synagogues. In May 1947 Soviet Deputy Foreign Minister Andrei Gromyko told the United Nations that the USSR supported the partition of Palestine into a Jewish and an Arab state. The USSR formally voted that way in the UN in November 1947. However once Israel was established, Stalin reversed positions, favoured the Arabs, arrested the leaders of the Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee, and launched attacks on Jews in the USSR.\n\nIn 1947, the United Nations Special Committee on Palestine recommended that western Palestine should be partitioned into a Jewish state, an Arab state and a UN-controlled territory, \"Corpus separatum\", around Jerusalem. This partition plan was adopted on November 29, 1947 with UN GA Resolution 181, 33 votes in favor, 13 against, and 10 abstentions. The vote led to celebrations in the streets of Jewish cities. However, the Palestinian Arabs and the Arab states rejected the UN decision, demanding a single state and removal of Jewish migrants, leading to the 1948 Arab–Israeli War.\n\nOn May 14, 1948, at the end of the British mandate, the Jewish Agency, led by David Ben-Gurion, declared the creation of the State of Israel, and the same day the armies of seven Arab countries invaded Israel. The conflict led to an exodus of about 711,000 Palestinian Arabs, known in Arabic as \"al-Nakba\" (\"the Catastrophe\"). Later, a series of laws passed by the first Israeli government prevented Palestinians from returning to their homes, or claiming their property. They and many of their descendants remain refugees. The flight and expulsion of the Palestinians has since been widely, and controversially, described as having involved ethnic cleansing. According to a growing consensus between Israeli and Palestinian historians, expulsion and destruction of villages played a part in the origin of the Palestinian refugees. Efraim Karsh, however, states that most of the Arabs who fled left of their own accord or were pressured to leave by their fellow Arabs, despite Israeli attempts to convince them to stay.\nSince the creation of the State of Israel, the World Zionist Organization has functioned mainly as an organization dedicated to assisting and encouraging Jews to migrate to Israel. It has provided political support for Israel in other countries but plays little role in internal Israeli politics. The movement's major success since 1948 was in providing logistical support for migrating Jews and, most importantly, in assisting Soviet Jews in their struggle with the authorities over the right to leave the USSR and to practice their religion in freedom, and the exodus of 850,000 Jews from the Arab world, mostly to Israel. In 1944–45, Ben-Gurion described the One Million Plan to foreign officials as being the \"primary goal and top priority of the Zionist movement.\" The immigration restrictions of the British White Paper of 1939 meant that such a plan could not be put into large scale effect until the Israeli Declaration of Independence in May 1948. The new country's immigration policy had some opposition within the new Israeli government, such as those who argued that there was \"no justification for organizing large-scale emigration among Jews whose lives were not in danger, particularly when the desire and motivation were not their own\" as well as those who argued that the absorption process caused \"undue hardship\". However, the force of Ben-Gurion's influence and insistence ensured that his immigration policy was carried out.\n\nThe multi-national, worldwide Zionist movement is structured on representative democratic principles. Congresses are held every four years (they were held every two years before the Second World War) and delegates to the congress are elected by the membership. Members are required to pay dues known as a \"shekel\". At the congress, delegates elect a 30-man executive council, which in turn elects the movement's leader. The movement was democratic from its inception and women had the right to vote.\n\nUntil 1917, the World Zionist Organization pursued a strategy of building a Jewish National Home through persistent small-scale immigration and the founding of such bodies as the Jewish National Fund (1901 – a charity that bought land for Jewish settlement) and the Anglo-Palestine Bank (1903 – provided loans for Jewish businesses and farmers). In 1942, at the Biltmore Conference, the movement included for the first time an express objective of the establishment of a Jewish state in the Land of Israel.\n\nThe 28th Zionist Congress, meeting in Jerusalem in 1968, adopted the five points of the \"Jerusalem Program\" as the aims of Zionism today. They are:\n\nSince the creation of modern Israel, the role of the movement has declined. It is now a peripheral factor in Israeli politics, though different perceptions of Zionism continue to play roles in Israeli and Jewish political discussion.\n\nLabor Zionism originated in Eastern Europe. Socialist Zionists believed that centuries of oppression in antisemitic societies had reduced Jews to a meek, vulnerable, despairing existence that invited further antisemitism, a view originally stipulated by Theodor Herzl. They argued that a revolution of the Jewish soul and society was necessary and achievable in part by Jews moving to Israel and becoming farmers, workers, and soldiers in a country of their own. Most socialist Zionists rejected the observance of traditional religious Judaism as perpetuating a \"Diaspora mentality\" among the Jewish people, and established rural communes in Israel called \"kibbutzim\". The kibbutz began as a variation on a \"national farm\" scheme, a form of cooperative agriculture where the Jewish National Fund hired Jewish workers under trained supervision. The kibbutzim were a symbol of the Second Aliyah in that they put great emphasis on communalism and egalitarianism, representing to a certain extent Utopian socialism. Furthermore, they stressed self-sufficiency, which became an important aspect of Labor Zionism. Though socialist Zionism draws its inspiration and is philosophically founded on the fundamental values and spirituality of Judaism, its progressive expression of that Judaism has often fostered an antagonistic relationship with Orthodox Judaism.\n\nLabor Zionism became the dominant force in the political and economic life of the Yishuv during the British Mandate of Palestine and was the dominant ideology of the political establishment in Israel until the 1977 election when the Israeli Labor Party was defeated. The Israeli Labor Party continues the tradition, although the most popular party in the kibbutzim is Meretz. Labour Zionism's main institution is the Histadrut (general organisation of labor unions), which began by providing strikebreakers against a Palestinian worker's strike in 1920 and until 1970s was the largest employer in Israel after the Israeli government.\n\nGeneral Zionism (or Liberal Zionism) was initially the dominant trend within the Zionist movement from the First Zionist Congress in 1897 until after the First World War. General Zionists identified with the liberal European middle class to which many Zionist leaders such as Herzl and Chaim Weizmann aspired. Liberal Zionism, although not associated with any single party in modern Israel, remains a strong trend in Israeli politics advocating free market principles, democracy and adherence to human rights. Kadima, the main centrist party during the 2000s that is now defunct, however, did identify with many of the fundamental policies of Liberal Zionist ideology, advocating among other things the need for Palestinian statehood in order to form a more democratic society in Israel, affirming the free market, and calling for equal rights for Arab citizens of Israel. In 2013, Ari Shavit suggested that the success of the then-new Yesh Atid party (representing secular, middle-class interests) embodied the success of \"the new General Zionists.\"\n\nDror Zeigerman writes that the traditional positions of the General Zionists—\"liberal positions based on social justice, on law and order, on pluralism in matters of State and Religion, and on moderation and flexibility in the domain of foreign policy and security\"—are still favored by important circles and currents within certain active political parties.\n\nPhilosopher Carlo Strenger describes a modern-day version of Liberal Zionism (supporting his vision of \"Knowledge-Nation Israel\"), rooted in the original ideology of Herzl and Ahad Ha'am, that stands in contrast to both the romantic nationalism of the right and the \"Netzah Yisrael\" of the ultra-Orthodox. It is marked by a concern for democratic values and human rights, freedom to criticize government policies without accusations of disloyalty, and rejection of excessive religious influence in public life. \"Liberal Zionism celebrates the most authentic traits of the Jewish tradition: the willingness for incisive debate; the contrarian spirit of \"davka\"; the refusal to bow to authoritarianism.\" Liberal Zionists see that \"Jewish history shows that Jews need and are entitled to a nation-state of their own. But they also think that this state must be a liberal democracy, which means that there must be strict equality before the law independent of religion, ethnicity or gender.\"\n\nRevisionist Zionists, led by Ze'ev Jabotinsky, developed what became known as Nationalist Zionism, whose guiding principles were outlined in the 1923 essay \"Iron Wall\". In 1935 the Revisionists left the World Zionist Organization because it refused to state that the creation of a Jewish state was an objective of Zionism.\n\nJabotinsky believed that, \nZionism is a colonising adventure and it therefore stands or falls by the question of armed force. It is important to build, it is important to speak Hebrew, but, unfortunately, it is even more important to be able to shoot—or else I am through with playing at colonization.\n\nand that\nAlthough the Jews originated in the East, they belonged to the West culturally, morally, and spiritually. Zionism was conceived by Jabotinsky not as the return of the Jews to their spiritual homeland but as an offshoot or implant of Western civilization in the East. This worldview translated into a geostrategic conception in which Zionism was to be permanently allied with European colonialism against all the Arabs in the eastern Mediterranean. The revisionists advocated the formation of a Jewish Army in Palestine to force the Arab population to accept mass Jewish migration.\n\nSupporters of Revisionist Zionism developed the Likud Party in Israel, which has dominated most governments since 1977. It advocates Israel's maintaining control of the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, and takes a hard-line approach in the Arab–Israeli conflict. In 2005, the Likud split over the issue of creation of a Palestinian state in the occupied territories. Party members advocating peace talks helped form the Kadima Party.\n\nReligious Zionism is an ideology that combines Zionism and observant Judaism. Before the establishment of the State of Israel, Religious Zionists were mainly observant Jews who supported Zionist efforts to build a Jewish state in the Land of Israel.\n\nAfter the Six-Day War and the capture of the West Bank, a territory referred to in Jewish terms as Judea and Samaria, right-wing components of the Religious Zionist movement integrated nationalist revindication and evolved into Neo-Zionism. Their ideology revolves around three pillars: the Land of Israel, the People of Israel and the Torah of Israel.\n\nGreen Zionism is a branch of Zionism primarily concerned with the environment of Israel. The only environmental Zionist party is the Green Zionist Alliance.\n\nDuring the last quarter of the 20th century, classic nationalism in Israel declined. This led to the rise of post-Zionism. Post-Zionism asserts that Israel should abandon the concept of a \"state of the Jewish people\" and strive to be a state of all its citizens, or a binational state where Arabs and Jews live together while enjoying some type of autonomy.\n\nPolitical support for the Jewish return to the Land of Israel predates the formal organization of Jewish Zionism as a political movement. In the 19th century, advocates of the restoration of the Jews to the Holy Land were called Restorationists. The return of the Jews to the Holy Land was widely supported by such eminent figures as Queen Victoria, Napoleon Bonaparte, King Edward VII, President John Adams of the United States, General Smuts of South Africa, President Masaryk of Czechoslovakia, philosopher and historian Benedetto Croce from Italy, Henry Dunant (founder of the Red Cross and author of the Geneva Conventions), and scientist and humanitarian Fridtjof Nansen from Norway.\n\nThe French government, through Minister M. Cambon, formally committed itself to \"... the renaissance of the Jewish nationality in that Land from which the people of Israel were exiled so many centuries ago.\"\n\nIn China, top figures of the Nationalist government, including Sun Yat-sen, expressed their sympathy with the aspirations of the Jewish people for a National Home.\n\nSome Christians have actively supported the return of Jews to Palestine even prior to the rise of Zionism, as well as subsequently. Anita Shapira, a history professor emerita at Tel Aviv University, suggests that evangelical Christian restorationists of the 1840s 'passed this notion on to Jewish circles'. Evangelical Christian anticipation of and political lobbying within the UK for Restorationism was widespread in the 1820s and common beforehand. It was common among the Puritans to anticipate and frequently to pray for a Jewish return to their homeland. \n\nOne of the principal Protestant teachers who promoted the biblical doctrine that the Jews would return to their national homeland was John Nelson Darby. His doctrine of dispensationalism is credited with promoting Zionism, following his 11 lectures on the hopes of the church, the Jew and the gentile given in Geneva in 1840. However, others like C H Spurgeon, both Horatius and Andrew Bonar, Robert Murray M'Chyene, and J C Ryle were among a number of prominent proponents of both the importance and significance of a Jewish return, who were not dispensationalist. Pro-Zionist views were embraced by many evangelicals and also affected international foreign policy.\n\nThe Russian Orthodox ideologue Hippolytus Lutostansky, also known as the author of multiple antisemitic tracts, insisted in 1911 that Russian Jews should be \"helped\" to move to Palestine \"as their rightful place is in their former kingdom of Palestine\".\n\nNotable early supporters of Zionism include British Prime Ministers David Lloyd George and Arthur Balfour, American President Woodrow Wilson and British Major-General Orde Wingate, whose activities in support of Zionism led the British Army to ban him from ever serving in Palestine. According to Charles Merkley of Carleton University, Christian Zionism strengthened significantly after the Six-Day War of 1967, and many dispensationalist and non-dispensationalist evangelical Christians, especially Christians in the United States, now strongly support Zionism.\n\nMartin Luther King Jr. was a strong supporter of Israel and Zionism, although the Letter to an Anti-Zionist Friend is a work falsely attributed to him.\n\nIn the last years of his life, the founder of the Latter Day Saint movement, Joseph Smith, declared, \"the time for Jews to return to the land of Israel is now.\" In 1842, Smith sent Orson Hyde, an Apostle of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints, to Jerusalem to dedicate the land for the return of the Jews.\n\nSome Arab Christians publicly supporting Israel include US author Nonie Darwish, and former Muslim Magdi Allam, author of \"Viva Israele\", both born in Egypt. Brigitte Gabriel, a Lebanese-born Christian US journalist and founder of the American Congress for Truth, urges Americans to \"fearlessly speak out in defense of America, Israel and Western civilization\".\n\nMuslims who have publicly defended Zionism include Dr. Tawfik Hamid, Islamic thinker and reformer and former member of al-Gama'a al-Islamiyya, an Islamist militiant group that is designated as a terrorist organization by the United States and European Union, Sheikh Prof. Abdul Hadi Palazzi, Director of the Cultural Institute of the Italian Islamic Community, and Tashbih Sayyed, a Pakistani-American scholar, journalist, and author.\n\nOn occasion, some non-Arab Muslims such as some Kurds and Berbers have also voiced support for Zionism.\n\nWhile most Israeli Druze identify as ethnically Arab, today, tens of thousands of Israeli Druze belong to \"Druze Zionist\" movements.\n\nDuring the Palestine Mandate era, As'ad Shukeiri, a Muslim scholar ('alim) of the Acre area, and the father of PLO founder Ahmad Shukeiri, rejected the values of the Palestinian Arab national movement and was opposed to the anti-Zionist movement. He met routinely with Zionist officials and had a part in every pro-Zionist Arab organization from the beginning of the British Mandate, publicly rejecting Mohammad Amin al-Husayni's use of Islam to attack Zionism.\n\nSome Indian Muslims have also expressed opposition to Islamic anti-Zionism. In August 2007, a delegation of the All India Organization of Imams and mosques led by its president Maulana Jamil Ilyas visited Israel. The meeting led to a joint statement expressing \"peace and goodwill from Indian Muslims\", developing dialogue between Indian Muslims and Israeli Jews, and rejecting the perception that the Israeli–Palestinian conflict is of a religious nature. The visit was organized by the American Jewish Committee. The purpose of the visit was to promote meaningful debate about the status of Israel in the eyes of Muslims worldwide, and to strengthen the relationship between India and Israel. It is suggested that the visit could \"open Muslim minds across the world to understand the democratic nature of the state of Israel, especially in the Middle East\".\n\nAfter Israel's creation in 1948, the Indian National Congress government opposed Zionism. Some writers have claimed that this was done in order to get more Muslim votes in India (where Muslims numbered over 30 million at the time). However, conservative Hindu nationalists, led by the Sangh Parivar, openly supported Zionism, as did Hindu Nationalist intellectuals like Vinayak Damodar Savarkar and Sita Ram Goel. Zionism, seen as a national liberation movement for the repatriation of the Jewish people to their homeland then under British colonial rule, appealed to many Hindu Nationalists, who viewed their struggle for independence from British rule and the Partition of India as national liberation for long-oppressed Hindus.\n\nAn international opinion survey has shown that India is the most pro-Israel country in the world. In more current times, conservative Indian parties and organizations tend to support Zionism. This has invited attacks on the Hindutva movement by parts of the Indian left opposed to Zionism, and allegations that Hindus are conspiring with the \"Jewish Lobby.\"\n\nZionism is opposed by a wide variety of organizations and individuals. Among those opposing Zionism are some secular Jews, some branches of Judaism (Satmar Hasidim and Neturei Karta), the former Soviet Union, many in the Muslim world, and Palestinians. Reasons for opposing Zionism are varied, and they include: the perception that land confiscations are unfair; expulsions of Palestinians; violence against Palestinians; and alleged racism. Arab states in particular strongly oppose Zionism, which they believe is responsible for the 1948 Palestinian exodus. The preamble of the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights, which has been ratified by 53 African countries , includes an undertaking to eliminate Zionism together with other practices including colonialism, neo-colonialism, apartheid, \"aggressive foreign military bases\" and all forms of discrimination.\n\nZionism was also opposed for other reasons by some Jews even before the establishment of the state of Israel because \"Zionism constitutes a danger, both spiritual and physical, to the existence of our people\".\n\nIn 1945 US President Franklin D Roosevelt met with king Ibn Saud of Saudi Arabia. Ibn Saud pointed out that it was Germany who had committed crimes against the Jews and so Germany should be punished. Palestinian Arabs had done no harm to European Jews and did not deserve to be punished by losing their land. Roosevelt on return to the US concluded that Israel 'could only be established and maintained by force', and that it would have to be a 'land for Jews only'.\n\nThe initial response of the Catholic Church seemed to be one of strong opposition to Zionism. Shortly after the 1897 Basel Conference, the semi-official Vatican periodical (edited by the Jesuits) Civiltà Cattolica gave its biblical-theological judgement on political Zionism: \"1827 years have passed since the prediction of Jesus of Nazareth was fulfilled ... that [after the destruction of Jerusalem] the Jews would be led away to be slaves among all the nations and that they would remain in the dispersion [diaspora, galut] until the end of the world.\" The Jews should not be permitted to return to Palestine with sovereignty: \"According to the Sacred Scriptures, the Jewish people must always live dispersed and vagabondo [vagrant, wandering] among the other nations, so that they may render witness to Christ not only by the Scriptures ... but by their very existence\".\n\nNonetheless, Theodore Herzl travelled to Rome in late January 1904, after the sixth Zionist Congress (August 1903) and six months before his death, looking for some kind of support. On January 22, Herzl first met the Papal Secretary of State, Cardinal Rafael Merry del Val. According to Herzl's private diary notes, the Cardinal's interpretation of the history of Israel was the same as that of the Catholic Church, but he also asked for the conversion of the Jews to Catholicism. Three days later, Herzl met Pope Pius X, who replied to his request of support for a Jewish return to Israel in the same terms, saying that \"we are unable to favor this movement. We cannot prevent the Jews from going to Jerusalem, but we could never sanction it ... The Jews have not recognized our Lord, therefore we cannot recognize the Jewish people.\" In 1922, the same periodical published a piece by its Viennese correspondent, \"anti-Semitism is nothing but the absolutely necessary and natural reaction to the Jews' arrogance... Catholic anti-Semitism - while never going beyond the moral law - adopts all necessary means to emancipate the Christian people from the abuse they suffer from their sworn enemy\". This initial attitude changed over the next 50 years, until 1997, when at the Vatican symposium of that year, Pope John Paul II rejected the Christian roots of antisemitism, stating that \"... the wrong and unjust interpretations of the New Testament relating to the Jewish people and their supposed guilt [in Christ's death] circulated for too long, engendering sentiments of hostility toward this people.\"\n\nZionism has been characterized as colonialism, and Zionism has been criticized for promoting unfair confiscation of land, involving the expulsion of, and causing violence towards, the Palestinians. The characterization of Zionism as colonialism has been described by, among others, Nur Masalha, Gershon Shafir, Michael Prior, Ilan Pappe, and Baruch Kimmerling.\n\nOthers, such as Shlomo Avineri and Mitchell Bard, view Zionism not as colonialist movement, but as a national movement that is contending with the Palestinian one. South African rabbi David Hoffman rejected the claim that Zionism is a 'settler-colonial undertaking' and instead characterized Zionism as a national program of affirmative action, adding that there is unbroken Jewish presence in Israel back to antiquity.\n\nNoam Chomsky, John P. Quigly, Nur Masalha, and Cheryl Rubenberg have criticized Zionism, saying that it unfairly confiscates land and expels Palestinians.\n\nIsaac Deutscher has called Israelis the 'Prussians of the Middle East', who have achieved a 'totsieg', a 'victorious rush into the grave' as a result of dispossessing 1.5 million Palestinians. Israel had become the 'last remaining colonial power' of the twentieth century.\n\nEdward Said and Michael Prior claim that the notion of expelling the Palestinians was an early component of Zionism, citing Herzl's diary from 1895 which states \"we shall endeavour to expel the poor population across the border unnoticed—the process of expropriation and the removal of the poor must be carried out discreetly and circumspectly.\" This quotation has been critiqued by Efraim Karsh for misrepresenting Herzl's purpose. He describes it as \"a feature of Palestinian propaganda\", writing that Herzl was referring to the voluntary resettlement of squatters living on land purchased by Jews, and that the full diary entry stated, \"It goes without saying that we shall respectfully tolerate persons of other faiths and protect their property, their honor, and their freedom with the harshest means of coercion. This is another area in which we shall set the entire world a wonderful example … Should there be many such immovable owners in individual areas [who would not sell their property to us], we shall simply leave them there and develop our commerce in the direction of other areas which belong to us.\" Derek Penslar says that Herzl may have been considering either South America or Palestine when he wrote the diary entry about expropriation. According to Walter Lacquer, although many Zionists proposed transfer, it was never official Zionist policy and in 1918 Ben-Gurion \"emphatically rejected\" it.\n\nIlan Pappe argued that Zionism results in ethnic cleansing. This view diverges from other New Historians, such as Benny Morris, who accept the Palestinian exodus narrative but place it in the context of war, not ethnic cleansing. When Benny Morris was asked about the Expulsion of Palestinians from Lydda and Ramle, he responded \"There are circumstances in history that justify ethnic cleansing. I know that this term is completely negative in the discourse of the 21st century, but when the choice is between ethnic cleansing and genocide—the annihilation of your people—I prefer ethnic cleansing.\"\n\nSaleh Abdel Jawad, Nur Masalha, Michael Prior, Ian Lustick, and John Rose have criticized Zionism for having been responsible for violence against Palestinians, such as the Deir Yassin massacre, Sabra and Shatila massacre, and Cave of the Patriarchs massacre.\n\nIn 1938, Mahatma Gandhi rejected Zionism, saying that the establishment of a Jewish national home in Palestine is a religious act and therefore must not be performed by force, comparing it to the Partition of India into Hindu and Muslim countries. He wrote, \"Palestine belongs to the Arabs in the same sense that England belongs to the English or France to the French. It is wrong and inhuman to impose the Jews on the Arabs ... Surely it would be a crime against humanity to reduce the proud Arabs so that Palestine can be restored to the Jews partly or wholly as their national home ... They can settle in Palestine only by the goodwill of the Arabs. They should seek to convert the Arab heart.\" Gandhi later told American journalist Louis Fischer in 1946 that \"Jews have a good case in Palestine. If the Arabs have a claim to Palestine, the Jews have a prior claim\".\n\nDavid Ben-Gurion stated that \"There will be no discrimination among citizens of the Jewish state on the basis of race, religion, sex, or class.\" Likewise, Vladimir Jabotinsky avowed \"the minority will not be rendered defenseless... [the] aim of democracy is to guarantee that the minority too has influence on matters of state policy.\"\n\nHowever, critics of Zionism consider it a colonialist or racist movement. According to historian Avi Shlaim, throughout its history up to present day, Zionism \"is replete with manifestations of deep hostility and contempt towards the indigenous population.\" Shlaim balances this by pointing out that there have always been individuals within the Zionist movement that have criticized such attitudes. He cites the example of Ahad Ha'am, who after visiting Palestine in 1891, published a series of articles criticizing the aggressive behaviour and political ethnocentrism of Zionist settlers. Ha'am wrote that the Zionists \"behave towards the Arabs with hostility and cruelty, trespass unjustly upon their boundaries, beat them shamefully without reason and even brag about it, and nobody stands to check this contemptible and dangerous tendency\" and that they believed that \"the only language that the Arabs understand is that of force.\" Some criticisms of Zionism claim that Judaism's notion of the \"chosen people\" is the source of racism in Zionism, despite, according to Gustavo Perednik, that being a religious concept unrelated to Zionism.\n\nIn December 1973, the UN passed a series of resolutions condemning South Africa and included a reference to an \"unholy alliance between Portuguese colonialism, Apartheid and Zionism.\" At the time there was little cooperation between Israel and South Africa, although the two countries would develop a close relationship during the 1970s. Parallels have also been drawn between aspects of South Africa's apartheid regime and certain Israeli policies toward the Palestinians, which are seen as manifestations of racism in Zionist thinking.\n\nIn 1975 the UN General Assembly passed Resolution 3379, which said \"Zionism is a form of racism and racial discrimination\". According to the resolution, \"any doctrine of racial differentiation of superiority is scientifically false, morally condemnable, socially unjust, and dangerous.\" The resolution named the occupied territory of Palestine, Zimbabwe, and South Africa as examples of racist regimes. Resolution 3379 was pioneered by the Soviet Union and passed with numerical support from Arab and African states amidst accusations that Israel was supportive of the apartheid regime in South Africa. The resolution was robustly criticised by the US representative, Daniel Patrick Moynihan as an 'obscenity' and a 'harm ... done to the United Nations'. 'In 1991 the resolution was repealed with UN General Assembly Resolution 46/86, after Israel declared that it would only participate in the Madrid Conference of 1991 if the resolution were revoked.\nArab countries sought to associate Zionism with racism in connection with a 2001 UN conference on racism, which took place in Durban, South Africa, which caused the United States and Israel to walk away from the conference as a response. The final text of the conference did not connect Zionism with racism. A human rights forum arranged in connection with the conference, on the other hand, did equate Zionism with racism and censured Israel for what it called \"racist crimes, including acts of genocide and ethnic cleansing\".\n\nSupporters of Zionism, such as Chaim Herzog, argue that the movement is non-discriminatory and contains no racist aspects.\n\nMany Haredi Orthodox organizations oppose Zionism; they view Zionism as a secular movement. They reject nationalism as a doctrine and consider Judaism to be first and foremost a religion that is not dependent on a state. However, some Haredi movements (such as Shas since 2010) do openly affiliate with the Zionist movement.\n\nHaredi rabbis do not consider Israel to be a halachic Jewish state because it has secular government. But they take responsibility for ensuring that Jews maintain religious ideals and, since most Israeli citizens are Jews, they pursue this agenda within Israel. Others reject any possibility of a Jewish state, since according to them a Jewish state is completely forbidden by Jewish religious law. In their view a Jewish state is considered an oxymoron.\n\nTwo Haredi parties run candidates in Israeli elections. They are sometimes associated with views that could be regarded as nationalist or Zionist. They prefer coalitions with more nationalist Zionist parties, probably because these are more interested in enhancing the Jewish nature of the Israeli state. The Sephardi-Orthodox party Shas rejected association with the Zionist movement; however, in 2010 it joined the World Zionist Organization. Its voters generally identify as Zionist, and Knesset members frequently pursue what others might consider a Zionist agenda. Shas has supported territorial compromise with the Arabs and Palestinians, but it generally opposes compromise over Jewish holy sites.\n\nThe non-Hasidic or 'Lithuanian' Haredi Ashkenazi world is represented by the Ashkenazi Agudat Israel/UTJ party. It has always avoided association with the Zionist movement and usually avoids voting on or discussing issues related to peace, because its members do not serve in the army. The party works to ensure that Israel and Israeli law are in tune with the halacha, on issues such as Shabbat rest. The rabbinical leaders of the so-called Litvishe world in current and past generations, such as Rabbi Elazar Menachem Shach and Rabbi Avigdor Miller, are strongly opposed to all forms of Zionism, religious and secular. But they allow members to participate in Israeli political life, including both passive and active participation in elections.\n\nMany other Hasidic groups in Jerusalem, most famously the Satmar Hasidim, as well as the larger movement they are part of, the Edah HaChareidis, are strongly anti-Zionist. One of the best known Hasidic opponents of all forms of modern political Zionism was Hungarian rebbe and Talmudic scholar Joel Teitelbaum. In his view, the current State of Israel is contrariwise to Judaism, because it was founded by people who included some anti-religious personalities, and were in apparent violation of the traditional notion that Jews should wait for the Jewish Messiah.\n\nTeitelbaum referred to core citations from classical Judaic sources in his arguments against modern Zionism; specifically a passage in the Talmud, in which Rabbi Yosi b'Rebbi Hanina explains (Kesubos 111a) that the Lord imposed \"Three Oaths\" on the nation of Israel: a) Israel should not return to the Land together, by force; b) Israel should not rebel against the other nations; and c) The nations should not subjugate Israel too harshly. According to Teitelbaum, the second oath is relevant concerning the subsequent wars fought between Israel and Arab nations.\n\nOther opponent groups among the Edah HaChareidis were Dushinsky, Toldos Aharon, Toldos Avrohom Yitzchok, Spinka, and others. They number in the tens of thousands in Jerusalem, and hundreds of thousands worldwide.\nThe Neturei Karta, an Orthodox Haredi religious movement, strongly oppose Zionism, considering Israel a \"racist regime\". They are viewed as a cult on the \"farthest fringes of Judaism\" by most mainstream Jews; the Jewish Virtual Library puts their numbers at 5,000, but the Anti-Defamation League estimates that fewer than 100 members of the community actually take part in anti-Israel activism. The movement equates Zionism to Nazism, believes that Zionist ideology is contrary to the teachings of the Torah, and also blames Zionism for increases in antisemitism. Members of Neturei Karta have a long history of extremist statements and support for notable anti-Semites and Islamic extremists.\n\nThe Chabad-Lubavitch Hasidic movement traditionally did not identify as Zionist, but has adopted a Zionist agenda since the late 20th century, opposing any territorial compromise in Israel.\n\nSome critics of anti-Zionism have argued that opposition to Zionism can be hard to distinguish from antisemitism, and that criticism of Israel may be used as an excuse to express viewpoints that might otherwise be considered antisemitic. Martin Luther King Jr. condemned anti-Zionism as antisemitic. Other scholars argue that certain forms of opposition to Zionism constitute antisemitism. A number of scholars have argued that opposition to Zionism or the State of Israel's policies at the more extreme fringes often overlaps with antisemitism. In the Arab world, the words \"Jew\" and \"Zionist\" are often used interchangeably. To avoid accusations of antisemitism, the Palestine Liberation Organization has historically avoided using the word \"Jewish\" in favor of using \"Zionist,\" though PLO officials have sometimes slipped.\n\nSome antisemites have alleged that Zionism was, or is, part of a Jewish plot to take control of the world. One particular version of these allegations, \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\" (subtitle \"Protocols extracted from the secret archives of the central chancery of Zion\") achieved global notability. The protocols are fictional minutes of an imaginary meeting by Jewish leaders of this plot. Analysis and proof of their fraudulent origin goes as far back as 1921. A 1920 German version renamed them \"The Zionist Protocols\". The protocols were extensively used as propaganda by the Nazis and remain widely distributed in the Arab world. They are referred to in the 1988 Hamas charter.\n\nThere are examples of anti-Zionists using accusations, slanders, imagery and tactics previously associated with antisemites. On October 21, 1973, the then-Soviet ambassador to the United Nations Yakov Malik declared: \"The Zionists have come forth with the theory of the Chosen People, an absurd ideology.\" Similarly, an exhibit about Zionism and Israel in the former Museum of Religion and Atheism in Saint Petersburg designated the following as Soviet Zionist material: Jewish prayer shawls, \"tefillin\" and Passover\" Hagaddahs\", even though these are all \"religious\" items used by Jews for thousands of years.\n\nOn the other hand, anti-Zionist writers such as Noam Chomsky, Norman Finkelstein, Michael Marder, and Tariq Ali have argued that the characterization of anti-Zionism as antisemitic is inaccurate, that it sometimes obscures legitimate criticism of Israel's policies and actions, and that it is sometimes used as a political ploy in order to stifle legitimate criticism of Israel.\n\n\nZionist success in winning British support for the formation of a Jewish National Home in Palestine helped inspire the Jamaican Black nationalist Marcus Garvey to form a movement dedicated to returning Americans of African origin to Africa. During a speech in Harlem in 1920, Garvey stated: \"other races were engaged in seeing their cause through—the Jews through their Zionist movement and the Irish through their Irish movement—and I decided that, cost what it might, I would make this a favorable time to see the Negro's interest through.\" Garvey established a shipping company, the Black Star Line, to allow Black Americans to emigrate to Africa, but for various reasons he failed in his endeavour.\n\nGarvey helped inspire the Rastafari movement in Jamaica, the Black Jews and the African Hebrew Israelites of Jerusalem who initially moved to Liberia before settling in Israel.\n\n\nExplanatory notes\nCitations\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
