{"id": "4884413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4884413", "title": "Achkan", "text": "Achkan\n\nAchkan () also known as \"Baghal bandi\" is a knee length jacket worn by men in the Indian subcontinent, particularly in India, Nepal, Bangladesh and in Pakistan much like the Angarkha and Sherwani.\n\nThe word achkan is derived from Angarkha (Sanskrit: अंगरक्षक, anga-rakshaka 'body protector'). The angarkha was worn in various parts of the Indian subcontinent, while the basic cut remained the same, styles and lengths varied from region to region.\n\nThe achkan originated in India as early as 2nd century B.C as court dress for nobles and royals and was worn as everyday wear until late 20th century by general population and also by the princely states of the Indian subcontinent. It can be distinguished from the Sherwani through various aspects, particularly the front opening. Achkan traditionally has side-opening tied with strings, this style of opening is known as \"baghal bandi\" but frontal opening were not uncommon, similar to Angarkha. While sherwani always has straight frontal opening, due to its function as outer-coat. Achkan, like Angarkha was traditionally worn with sash known as \"patka\", \"kamarband\" or \"dora\" wrapped around the waist to keep the entire costume in place. While sherwani was traditionally worn as decorative outer-coat for special occasions during medieval times. Achkan is always worn with either dhoti or churidar. Achkan is made from various fabrics for both formal and informal occasions, it features traditional embroidery like gota and badla. Today, achkan is commonly worn by the grooms during wedding ceremonies or other formal festive occasions in the Indian subcontinent.\n\nThere are various regional variations of achkan worn throughout the Indian subcontinent, and are known by regional names such as \"Daura\" in Nepal and Northeast India, \"Angi\" in Southern India and \"Chola\" or \"Cholu\" in Indian Himalayas.\n"}
{"id": "4731463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4731463", "title": "Alternative Medicine Research Institute", "text": "Alternative Medicine Research Institute\n\nThe Alternative Medicine Research Institute is an advocacy group promoting alternative medicines, including regulated ones such as homeopathy, as well as non-regulated ones. AMRO seeks to perpetuate these alternative medicine practices.\n"}
{"id": "58970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58970", "title": "Apocalypse", "text": "Apocalypse\n\nAn apocalypse (Ancient Greek: ἀποκάλυψις \"apokálypsis\", from ἀπό and καλύπτω, literally meaning \"an uncovering\") is a disclosure of knowledge or revelation. In religious and occult concepts it is usually a disclosure of something hidden, \"a vision of heavenly secrets that can make sense of earthly realities\". Historically, the term has a heavy religious connotation as commonly seen in the prophetic revelations of eschatology and were obtained through dreams or spiritual visions. In the biblical book of revelation apocalypse says to be the complete and final destruction of the world.\n\nIt is also the Greek word for the last book of the New Testament entitled \"Revelation\". The term is also included in the title of some non-biblical canon books involving revelations. Today, the term is commonly used in reference to any larger-scale catastrophic event, or chain of detrimental events to humanity or nature. In all contexts, the revealed events usually entail some form of an end time scenario or the end of the world or revelations into divine, heavenly, or spiritual realms. There are many other books from the Jewish and Christian world that can be classified as apocalypses. In addition to other books of the bible contain passages pertaining to a apocalypse/ apocalyptic circumstances.\n\nThe revelation may be made through a dream, as in the Book of Daniel, or through a vision, as in the Book of Revelation. In biblical meaning Revelation is something that is shown to humans by “God”: Other words used to describe Revelation include: apocalypse, Armageddon, prophecy, unveiling. Fasting, mainly as part of a spiritual discipline, can lead one into an apocalyptic prophetic vision. One example of this is found in the Book of Daniel which is the first apocalypse in the Protestant Bible. After a long period of fasting, Daniel is standing by a river when a heavenly being appears to him, and the revelation follows (Daniel 10:2ff). Apocalypse is also one of the writings of the Jews and Christians, dating back to 200 B.C and A.D: in these writings God destroys the powers of evil a raises up a righteous way of life.\n\nApocalyptic visions or dreams show hidden information/truth about God, human life and the spiritual world. These visions or dreams usually show insights about life after death. A part about Gods final judgement deals with forces of evil and forces of good. In the Bible God defeats an evil force forever and bring justice and mercy to the world. Rev 20–22, and the article “Day of the Lord”\n\nApocalyptic writing often makes wide use of symbolism. One instance of this occurs where gematria is employed, either for obscuring the writer's meaning or enhancing it; as a number of ancient cultures used letters also as numbers (\"i.e.\", the Romans with their use of \"Roman numerals\"). Thus the symbolic name \"\"Taxo\",\" \"Assumptio Mosis\", ix. 1; the \"Number of the Beast\" (616/666), in the Book of Revelation ; the number 666 ('Iησōῦς), \"Sibyllines\", i.326–30.\n\nSimilar is the frequent prophecy of the length of time through which the events predicted must be fulfilled. Thus, the \"time, times, and a half,\" Daniel 12:7 which has been taken to be 3½ years in length by Dispensationalists; the \"\"fifty-eight times\" of Enoch, xc.5, \"Assumptio Mosis\"\", x.11; the announcement of a certain number of \"weeks\" or days, which starting point in Daniel 9:24, 25 is \"the going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah the Prince shall be seven weeks\", a mention of 1290 days after the covenant/sacrifice is broken (Daniel 12:11), 12; Enoch xciii.3–10; 2 Esdras 14:11, 12; \"Apocalypse of Baruch\" xxvi–viii; Revelation 11:3, which mentions \"two witnesses\" with supernatural power, 12:6; compare \"Assumptio Mosis\", vii.1.\n\nSymbolic language also occurs in descriptions of persons, things or events; thus, the \"horns\" of Daniel 7 and 8; Revelation 17 and following; the \"heads\" and \"wings\" of 2 Esdras xi and following; the seven seals of Revelation 6; trumpets, Revelation 8; \"vials of the wrath of God\" or \"bowl...\" judgments, Revelation 16; the dragon, Revelation 12:3–17, Revelation 20:1–3;\nthe eagle, \"Assumptio Mosis\", x.8; and so on.\n\nIn the Hebrew Old Testament some pictures of the end of the age were images of the judgment of the wicked and the glorification of those who were given righteousness before God. In the Book of Job and in some Psalms the dead are described as being in Sheol, awaiting the final judgment. The wicked will then be consigned to eternal suffering in the fires of Gehinnom, or the lake of fire mentioned in the Book of Revelation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "578673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=578673", "title": "Archivist", "text": "Archivist\n\nAn archivist (\"AR-kiv-ist\") is an information professional who assesses, collects, organizes, preserves, maintains control over, and provides access to records and archives determined to have long-term value. The records maintained by an archivist can consist of a variety of forms, including letters, diaries, logs, other personal documents, government documents, sound and/or picture recordings, digital files, or other physical objects.\n\nAs Richard Pearce-Moses wrote:\n\nDetermining what records have enduring value can be challenging. Archivists must also select records valuable enough to justify the costs of storage and preservation, plus the labor-intensive expenses of arrangement, description, and reference service. The theory and scholarly work underpinning archives practices is called archival science.\n\nThe most common related occupations are librarians, museum curators, and records managers. The archivist occupation is distinct from that of librarian. The two occupations have separate courses of training, adhere to separate and distinct principles, and are represented by separate professional organizations. In general, the librarian tends to deal with published media (where the metadata, such as author, title, and date of publication, may be readily apparent and can be presented in standardized form), whereas the archivist deals with unpublished media (which has different challenges such as the metadata not always being immediately apparent, containing complications and variety, and more likely to depend on provenance).\n\nIn addition, because archival records are frequently unique, some archivists may be as much concerned with the preservation and custody of the information carrier (i.e. the physical document) as with its informational content. In this regard, some would argue the archivist may have more in common with the museum curator than with the librarian.\n\nThe occupation of archivist is also frequently distinguished from that of records manager, although in this case the distinction is less absolute: the archivist is predominantly concerned with records deemed worthy of permanent preservation, whereas the records manager is more concerned with records of current administrative importance.\n\nArchivists' duties include acquiring and appraising new collections, arranging and describing records, providing reference service, and preserving materials. In arranging records, archivists apply two important principles: provenance and original order. Provenance refers to the creation of records and keeping different records separate in order to maintain context. Many entities create records, including governments, businesses, universities, and individuals. Original order is applied by keeping records in their order as established and maintained by the creator(s). Both provenance and original order are closely related to the concept of \"respect des fonds\", which states that records from one corporate body should not be mixed with records from another.\n\nThere are two aspects to arrangement: intellectual and physical. Both aspects follow the principle of original order. Archivists process the records physically by placing them in acid-free folders and boxes to ensure their long-term survival. They also process the records intellectually, by determining what the records consist of, how they are organized, and what, if any, finding aids need to be created. Finding aids can be box lists or descriptive inventories, or indexes. Even if the original arrangement is unclear or unhelpful in terms of accessing the collection, it is rarely rearranged to something that makes more sense. This is because preserving the original order shows how the creator of the records functioned, why the records were created, and how they went about arranging them. Moreover, the provenance and authenticity of the records may be lost. However, original order is not always the best way to maintain some collections and archivists must use their own experience and current best practices to determine the correct way to preserve collections of mixed media or those lacking a clear original arrangement.\n\nArchivists' work encompasses a range of ethical decisions that may be thought of as falling into three broad and intertwined areas: legal requirements; professional standards; and accountability to society in selecting and preserving documentary materials that serve as a primary source of knowledge, and influence collective memory and identity. In negotiating the ethical conflicts that arise in their work, archivists are guided by codes of ethics. The Society of American Archivists first adopted a code of ethics in 1980; the International Council on Archives adopted one in 1996.\n\nAlongside their work in arranging and caring for collections, archivists assist users in interpreting materials and answering inquiries. This reference work can be a small part of an archivist's job in a smaller organization, or consist of most of their occupation in a larger archive where specific roles (such as processing archivist and reference archivist) may be delineated.\n\nArchivists work for a variety of organizations, including government agencies, local authorities, museums, hospitals, historical societies, businesses, charities, corporations, colleges and universities, and any institution whose records may potentially be valuable to researchers, exhibitors, genealogists, or others. They can also work on the collections of a large family or even of an individual.\n\nArchivists are often educators as well; it is not unusual for an archivist employed at a university or college to lecture in a subject related to their collection. Archivists employed at cultural institutions or for local government frequently design educational or outreach programs to further the ability of archive users to understand and access information in their collections. This might include such varied activities as exhibitions, promotional events, or even media coverage.\n\nThe advent of Encoded Archival Description, along with increasing demand for materials to be made available online, has required archivists to become more tech-savvy in the past decade. Many archivists are now acquiring basic XML skills in order to make their finding aids available to researchers online.\n\nBecause of the varied nature of the job within different organizations and work environments, archivists need to have a wide range of skills:\n\nThe educational preparation for archivists varies from country to country.\n\nThe Australian Society of Archivists is the professional body for archivists, and is responsible for the accreditation of the various University courses. The first University to offer archival training was the University of New South Wales, starting in 1973. The course closed in 2000.\n\nCourses are now offered at Curtin University in Western Australia, Charles Sturt University in New South Wales, Monash University in Victoria and University of South Australia at undergraduate and postgraduate levels. The course at Edith Cowan University is being phased out. Courses are offered in a variety of modes, including online via Open University Australia and through a combination of online and internal units at the various universities.\n\nThe profession has been regulated since 1978. Many universities in Brazil, such as the University of Brasilian (UnB), the Federal University of Santa Catarina (UFSC), the Federal University of Santa Maria (UFSM) and the São Paulo State University (UNESP) offer the degree in archival science.\n\nIn Colombia, the Universidad de La Salle offers the degree of Professional in Information Systems, Library and Archival Sciences. It is a vocational training program, within existing legal standards aimed at providing knowledge, skills and abilities required for the design and management of information systems and documentation of various sorts. Its projection for the future is based on the application of new information technologies and communications for the management of information services economically viable. The program was created in 1971.\n\nOther institutions that offers a degree in Archival Science are:\n\nIn France, the oldest Archivist School is the \"École des chartes\", founded in 1821. This prestigious \"grande école\" (literally, \"grand schools) offers a diploma in \"Archivist-Paleography\" after a three-year curriculum. A part of its alumni pursue a State archivist career after an 18-month formation at the \"Institut national du patrimoine\". Most positions are reserved for European citizens.\n\nSome universities offer master's degree in Archival Science: Angers, Caen, Dijon, Lille III, Lyon III, Mulhouse, Versailles Saint-Quentin,\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, the University College Dublin School of History and Archives offers a Masters of Arts degree in Archives and Records Management, recognised by the Society of Archivists.\n\nVictoria University of Wellington is the only tertiary institution in New Zealand provides postgraduate archival courses. Victoria Information Studies qualifications with ARCR endorsement have been recognized by Records and Information Management Professionals Australasia. Open Polytechnic of New Zealand provides undergraduate archival courses.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, there are currently five full- or part-time postgraduate courses in archives administration or management which are recognised by the Archives and Records Association (United Kingdom and Ireland). Students are expected to have relevant paid or voluntary work experience before obtaining a place on the UK courses; many undertake a year's traineeship. Also, professional certification (after qualifying) can be pursued via the Registration Scheme offered by the Archives and Records Association.\n\nThe most common types of advanced degrees held by archivists are in archival science, public history, history, library science, or library and information science. It is also possible for archivists to earn a doctorate in library and information science. Archivists with a PhD often work as teaching faculty, deans, or directors of archival programs. In 2002, the Society of American Archivists published Guidelines for a Graduate Program in Archival Studies; it also promotes and disseminates a code of ethics, which has undergone several revisions since it was first adopted in 1980.\n\nThe Academy of Certified Archivists offers supplemental archival training by means of a certification program. When first established in 1989, some critics of ACA certification objected to its annual membership fees, the theoretical versus practical nature of its tests, and the need for members to re-certify every five years. However, in the decades since, it has been agreed that such requirements are comparable with certification programs in other professions, and that certification strengthens professional standards and individual competencies. While some positions in archives require certification and many employers view certification as preferred, it is not required by all employers in the United States. Approximately 1,200+ archivists were certified by ACA, .\n\nMany archivists belong to a professional organization, such as the Society of American Archivists, the Association of Canadian Archivists, the Archives and Records Association (UK/Ireland), the Colombian College of Archivists - CCA, and the Australian Society of Archivists, as well as any number of local or regional associations. These organizations often provide ongoing educational opportunities to their members and other interested practitioners. In addition to formal degrees and or apprenticeships, many archivists take part in continuing education opportunities as available through professional associations and library school programs. New discoveries in the fields of media preservation and emerging technologies require continuing education as part of an archivist's job in order to stay current in the profession.\n\nThe first predecessors of archival science in the West are Jacob von Rammingen's manuals of 1571. and Baldassare Bonifacio's \"De Archivis libris singularis\" of 1632.\n\nIn 1883 French archivist Gabriel Richou published the first Western text on archival theory, entitled \"Traité théorique et pratique des archives publiques\" (\"Treaty of Theory and Practice of the Public Archives\"), in which he systematized the archival theory of the \"respect des fonds\", first published by Natalis de Wailly in 1841.\n\nIn 1898, three Dutch archivists, Samuel Muller, Johan Feith, and Robert Fruin, published the \"Handleiding voor het ordenen en beschrijven van archieven\" (\"Manual for the Arrangement and Description of Archives\"). Produced for the Dutch Association of Archivists, it set out one hundred rules for archivists to base their work around. Notably, within these rules, the principle of preserving provenance and original order was first argued for as an essential trait of archival arrangement and description.\n\nThe next major text was the \"Manual of Archive Administration\" published in 1922 by Hilary Jenkinson, then employed at the British Public Record Office: a revised edition appeared in 1937. In this work, Jenkinson states that archives are evidence and that the moral and physical defence of this evidential value is the central tenet of archival work. He further outlines his ideas of what an archive should be and how it should operate.\n\nIn 1956, T. R. Schellenberg, who is known as the \"Father of American Archival Appraisal\", published \"Modern Archives\". Schellenberg's work was intended to be an academic textbook defining archival methodology and giving archivists specific technical instruction on workflow and arrangement. Moving away from Jenkinson's organic and passive approach to archival acquisition, where the administrator decided what was kept and what was destroyed, Schellenberg argued for a more active approach by archivists to appraisal. His primary (administrative) and secondary (research) value model for the management and appraisal of records and archives allowed government archivists greater control over the influx of material that they faced after the Second World War. As a result of the widespread adoption of Schellenberg's methods, especially in the United States of America, modern Records Management as a separate but related discipline was born.\n\nIn 1972, Ernst Posner published \"Archives in the Ancient World\". Posner's work emphasized that archives were not new inventions, but had existed in many different societies throughout recorded history.\n\nIn 1975, essays by Margaret Cross Norton were collected under the title of \"Norton on Archives: The Writings of Margaret Cross Norton on Archival and Records Management\". Norton was one of the founders of the Society of American Archivists, and wrote essays based on her decades of experience working in the Illinois State Archives.\n\nArchivists, like librarians, are taking advantage of Web 2.0 technologies such as blogs, wikis, as well as open access and open source philosophies. While Archives 2.0 may refer to implementing new technologies, it is also a way of engaging with archives in an effort to promote openness and flexibility of archival materials. This can be achieved through community participation in archives, archivists actively engaging with their collections, and promoting archival benefits in the modern world.\n\nKate Theimer writes that in order to understand Archives 2.0, it must be compared against Archives 1.0. She asserts that her representation of Archives 1.0 is by no means exhaustive or fully comprehensive of the breadth of archival experience. The following is a list of contrasts between 1.0 and 2.0.\n\n\nThe technological tools of Archives 2.0 provide the foundational platforms to help the change from 1.0 to 2.0. When working in an archives that is dedicated to upholding 2.0 standards, the focus has shifted onto the user experience at an archives: community use, or research and reference help.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3912778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3912778", "title": "Bias in education", "text": "Bias in education\n\nBias in education refers to real or perceived bias in the educational system.\n\nThe content of school textbooks is often the issue of debate, as their target audience is young people, and the term \"whitewashing\" is the one commonly used to refer to selective removal of critical or damaging evidence or comment. The reporting of military atrocities in history is extremely controversial, as in the case of the Holocaust (or Holocaust denial) and the Winter Soldier Investigation of the Vietnam War. The representation of every society's flaws or misconduct is typically downplayed in favor of a more nationalist or patriotic view. Also, Christians and other religionists have at times attempted to block the teaching of the theory of evolution in schools, as evolutionary theory appears to contradict their religious beliefs; the teaching of creationism as a science is likewise blocked from many public schools. In the context of secondary-school education, the way facts and history are presented greatly influences the interpretation of contemporary thought, opinion and socialization. One legitimate argument for censoring the type of information disseminated is based on the inappropriate quality of such material for the young. The use of the \"inappropriate\" distinction is in itself controversial, as it can be used to enforce wider and more politically motivated censorship.\n\nMany countries and states have guidelines against bias in education, but they are not always implemented. The guidelines of the California Department of Education (Code 60044) state the following: \"No religious belief or practice may be held up to ridicule and no religious group may be portrayed as inferior.\" \"Any explanation or description of a religious belief or practice should be present in a manner that does not encourage or discourage belief or indoctrinate the student in any particular religious belief.\"\n\nOn the basis of these guidelines, the Board of Education of California corrected in 2005 misrepresentations of Judaism, Islam and Hinduism in schoolbooks. Many of these misrepresentations were described as biased, erroneuous or culturally derogatory. All 500 changes proposed by Jews and about 100 changes proposed by Muslims were accepted.\n\nMany recent allegations against the United States have surfaced about the hiding of many historical facts from the public through public education and thus luring the public to believing that the actions taken by the U.S. government are justified and provide a global benefit.\n\nOn the political left, professors Howard Zinn and James Loewen allege that United States history as presented in school textbooks has a conservative bias. \"A People's History of the United States\", by American historian and political scientist Zinn, seeks to present American history through the eyes of groups rarely heard in mainstream histories. Loewen spent two years at the Smithsonian Institution studying and comparing twelve American history textbooks widely used throughout the United States. His findings were published in \"Lies My Teacher Told Me: Everything Your High School History Textbook Got Wrong\".\n\nOn the political right, professor Larry Schweikart makes the opposite case: he alleges in his \"48 Liberal Lies About American History\" that United States history education has a liberal bias.\n\nIn a landmark book called \"The Trouble with Textbooks,\" Dr. Gary A. Tobin and Dennis R. Ybarra show how some American textbooks contain anti-Semitic versions of Jewish history and faith, particularly in relation to Christianity and Islam. The authors found that some U.S. textbooks \"tend to discredit the ties between Jews and the Land of Israel. Israel is blamed for starting wars in the region and being colonialist. Jews are charged with deicide in the killing of Jesus. All in all, there are repeated misrepresentations that cross the line into bigotry.\"\n\nPalestinian school text books have come under repeated criticism for anti-Israeli bias. An independent study of Palestinian textbooks by Professor Nathan Brown of George Washington University in Washington, DC, found that Palestine National Authority-authored books avoid treating anything controversial regarding Palestinian national identity, and while highly nationalistic, do not incite hatred, violence and anti-Semitism.\n\nAn analysis of Israeli textbooks in 2000 by the Center for Monitoring the Impact of Peace (CMIP), found that there was no indoctrination against the Arabs as a nation, nor a negative presentation of Islam. However in 2012, Nurit Peled-Elhanan, a professor of language and education at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, published \"Palestine in Israeli School Books: Ideology and Propaganda in Education\", an account of her study of the contents of Israeli school books finding that Israeli school books do in fact promote racism against and negative images of Arabs, and prepare Israelis children for compulsory military service.\n\nIn 1982 the NCERT (National Council of Educational Research and Training) issued guidelines for the rewriting of schoolbooks. It stipulated that: \"Characterization of the medieval period as a time of conflict between Hindus and Muslims is forbidden.\"\nIn April 1989 the West Bengal Board of Secondary Education had issued instructions to schools and publishers of textbooks that \"Muslim rule should never attract any criticism. Destruction of temples by Muslim rulers and invaders should not be mentioned.\" Schools and publishers have been asked to ignore and delete mention of forcible conversions to Islam. Some academicians have felt that these \"corrections\" were politically motivated and that they are censorship.\n\nArun Shourie criticized these changes in schoolbooks and claimed: \"The most extensive deletions are ordered in regard to the chapter on \"Aurangzeb's policy on religion\". Every allusion to what he actually did to the Hindus, to their temples, to the very leitmotif of his rule – to spread the sway of Islam – are directed to be excised from the book. ... \"In a word, no forcible conversions, no massacres, no destruction of temples. ... Muslim historians of those times are in raptures at the heap of Kafirs [sic] who have been dispatched to hell. Muslim historians are forever lavishing praise on the ruler for the temples he has destroyed, ... Law books like The Hedaya prescribe exactly the options to which these little textbooks alluded. All whitewashed away. Objective whitewash for objective history. And today if anyone seeks to restore truth to these textbooks, the shout, \"Communal rewriting of history.\"\"\"\n\nHistory textbooks and schoolbooks written by Marxist historian Romila Thapar have been criticized for being biased.\n\nBias in education has been a common feature in the curriculum of many South Asian countries. According to Waghmar, many of the oriental societies are plagued by visceral nationalism and post-imperial neurosis where state-sanctioned dogmas suppress eclectic historical readings. Issues such as the preaching of hatred and obscurantism and the distortion of history in Pakistan have led the international scholars to suggest the need for coordinated efforts amongst the historians to produce a composite history of the subcontinent as a common South Asian reader. Bias against Indians and Hindus, as well as other religious minorities, have been found in Pakistani schoolbooks. However, Nelson here stresses the need for any educational reform to be based at the needs of the level of local communities.\n\nThe bias in Pakistani textbooks was studied by Rubina Saigol, Pervez Hoodbhoy, K. K. Aziz, I. A. Rahman, Mubarak Ali, A. H. Nayyar, Ahmed Saleem, Yvette Rosser and others.\n\nA study by Nayyar & Salim (2003) that was conducted with 30 experts of Pakistan's education system, found that the textbooks contain statements that seek to create hate against Hindus. There was also an emphasis on Jihad, Shahadat, wars and military heroes. The study reported that the textbooks also had a lot of gender-biased stereotypes. Some of the problems in Pakistani textbooks cited in the report were: \"\"Insensitivity to the existing religious diversity of the nation\"; \"Incitement to militancy and violence, including encouragement of Jehad and Shahadat\"; a \"glorification of war and the use of force\"; \"Inaccuracies of fact and omissions that serve to substantially distort the nature and significance of actual events in our history\"; \"Perspectives that encourage prejudice, bigotry and discrimination towards fellow citizens, especially women and religious minorities, and other towards nations\" and \"Omission of concepts ... that could encourage critical selfawareness among students\".\"\n\nThese problems still seem to persist: The Curriculum Wing of the Federal Ministry of Education rejected a textbook in December 2003 because of two serious objections: The textbook contained the text of letter of a non-Muslim, and it contained the story of a family were both husband and wife worked and were sharing their household chores. In February 2004, a textbook was disapproved by the Curriculum Wing because it didn't contain enough material on jihad.\n\nPakistani textbooks were relatively unbiased up to 1972, but were rewritten and completely altered under Bhutto's and especially under Zia's (1977–88) rule. The bias in Pakistani textbooks was also documented by Yvette Rosser (2003). She wrote that \"in the past few decades, social studies textbooks in Pakistan have been used as locations to articulate the hatred that Pakistani policy makers have attempted to inculcate towards their Hindu neighbours\", and that as a result \"in the minds of generations of Pakistanis, indoctrinated by the 'Ideology of Pakistan' are lodged fragments of hatred and suspicion.\"\n\nProfessors who have been critical of Pakistani politics or corruption have are sometimes discriminated against. Dr. Parvez Hoodbhoy, who was also a critic of Pakistani politics, had troubles leaving the country for a lecture in the Physics department at MIT, because he was denied a \"NOC (No Objection Certificate)\" necessary for travels abroad.\n\nOne of the omissions in Pakistani textbooks is Operation Gibraltar. Operation Gibraltar, which provoked the Indian Army attack on Lahore, is not mentioned in most history textbooks. According to Pakistani textbooks, Lahore was attacked without any provocation on the part of the Pakistani army. The rule of Islamic invaders like Mahmud of Gahzni is glorified, while the much more peaceful Islamic ruler Akbar is often ignored in Pakistani textbooks.\n\nThe Pakistani Curriculum document for classes K-V stated in 1995 that \"at the completion of Class-V, the child should be able to\":\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31728251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31728251", "title": "Blanqueamiento", "text": "Blanqueamiento\n\nBlanqueamiento, branqueamento, or whitening, is a social, political, and economic practice used in many post-colonial countries to \"improve the race\" (\"mejorar la raza\") towards a supposed ideal of whiteness. The term blanqueamiento is rooted in Latin America and is used more or less synonymous with racial whitening. However, blanqueamiento can be considered in both the symbolic and biological sense. Symbolically, blanqueamiento represents an ideology that emerged from legacies of European colonialism, described by Anibal Quijano's theory of coloniality of power, which caters to white dominance in social hierarchies. Biologically, blanqueamiento is the process of whitening by marrying a lighter-skinned individual to produce lighter-skinned offspring.\n\nPeter Wade argues that blanqueamiento is a historical process that can be linked to nationalism. When thinking about nationalism, the ideologies behind it stem from national identity, which according to Wade is \"a construction of the past and the future\", where the past is understood as being more traditional and backwards. For example, past demographics of Puerto Rico were heavily black and Indian-influenced because the country partook in the slave trade and was simultaneously home to many indigenous groups. Therefore, understanding blanqueamiento as it relates to modernization, modernization is then understood as a guidance in the direction away from black and indigenous roots. Modernization then happened as described by Wade as \"the increasing integration of blacks and Indians into modern society, where they will mix in and eventually disappear, taking their primitive culture with them\". This kind of implementation of blanqueamiento takes place in a societies that have historically always been led by 'white' people whose guidance would carry \"the country away from its past, which began in Indianness and slavery\" with hopes of promoting the intermixing of bodies to develop a predominantly white-skinned society.\nThe formation of mestizaje emerged in the shift of Latin America towards multiculturalist perspectives and policies. Mestizaje has been considered problematic by many U.S. scholars because it sustains racial hierarchies and celebrates blanqueamiento. For example, Swanson argues that although mestizaje is not a physical embodiment of whitening, it is \"not so much about mixing, as it about a progressive whitening of the population\".\n\nAnother possibility when considering mestizaje as it relates to blanqueamiento is by understanding mestizaje as a concept that encourages mixedness, but differs from the concept of blanqueamiento on the basis of the end goal for mestizaje. As Peter Wade states, \"it celebrates the idea of difference in a democratic, non-hierarchical form. Rather than envisioning a gradual whitening, it holds up the general image of the mestizo in which racial, regional, and even class differences are submerged into a common identification with mixedness.\" On the same coin, when thinking about blanqueamiento, the future goal takes up the same theme of mixing. The difference between them is that while mestizaje glorifies the mixing of all people to reach an end goal of having a brown population, blanqueamiento has the end goal of whiteness. The outcome of mestizaje mixing would lead to \"the predominance of the mestizo\" and is not \"construed necessarily as (a) whitened mestizo\". Most importantly, both of these ideologies link emerging nationhood with the predominance of the mestizo or the whitened population.\n\nBlanqueamiento was enacted in national policies of many Latin American countries at the turn of the 20th century. In most cases, these policies promoted European immigration as a means to whiten the population.\n\nBlanqueamiento (\"branqueamento\" in Portuguese) was circulated in national policy throughout Brazil in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. Blanqueamiento policies emerged in the aftermath of the abolition of slavery and the beginning of Brazil's first republic (1888–1889). To dilute the black \"race\", Brazil executed public measures to increase European immigration, where more than 1 million Europeans arrived in São Paulo between 1890 and 1914. The state and federal government funded and subsidized immigrant travels, where immigrants arrived from Portugal, Spain, Italy, Russia, Germany, Austria, France and the Netherlands. Claims that white blood would eventually eliminate black blood were found in accounts of immigration statistics. Created in the late 19th century, Brazil's Directoria Geral de Estatistica (DGE) has conducted demographic censuses and managed to measure the progress of whitening as successful in Brazil.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, the Cuban government created immigration laws that invested more than $1 million into recruiting Europeans into Cuba to whiten the state. High participation of blacks in independence movements threatened white elitist power and when the 1899 census showed that more than of Cuba's population was colored, white migration started to gain support. Political blanqueamiento began in 1902 after the U.S. occupation, where migration of \"undesirables\" (i.e. blacks) became prohibited in Cuba. Immigration policies supported the migration of entire families. Between 1902 and 1907, nearly 128,000 Spaniards entered Cuba, and officially in 1906, Cuba created its immigration law that funded white migrants. However, many European immigrants did not stay in Cuba and came solely for the sugar harvest, returning to their homes during the off seasons. Although some 780,000 Spaniards migrated between 1902–1931, only 250,000 stayed. By the 1920s, blanqueamiento through national policy had effectively failed.\n\nSocial blanqueamiento happens in many Latin American countries and can take the form of ethnic self-identification. For example, when examining the Puerto Rican census and the different ethnic categories of the population, the self-categorization of 'white' became an increasing social trend despite the rich Puerto Rican history of slave trade during the 1800s. Due to the slave trade and the intermixing of bodies, the phenotypic composition of the population in Puerto Rico was dramatically impacted. \"One consequence of the increase of African Slaves was a change in the racial composition of the population. The largest proportion (55.6%) of people \"of Color\" was recorded in 1820 and was subsequently reduced. In 1864 52.4% of the population was \"white\". Then as the census continued through the decades, the dramatic decrease of non-white categories became a trend. \"The category of \"white\" remained intact and the percentage of the population it accounted for increased from 61.8% in 1899 to 80.5% in 2000. At the same time, the proportion of people classified as \"nonwhite\" fell from 38.2% to 19%. The last decade has seen a move towards multiculturalism and away from blanquamiento, which is reflected in the 2010 census reporting the white population declining to 75.8%.\n\nBlanqueamiento is also associated with food consumption. For example, in Osorno, a Chilean city with a strong German heritage, consumption of desserts, marmelades and kuchens whitens the inhabitants of the city.\n\nBlanqueamiento can also be accomplished through economic achievement. Many scholars have argued that money has the ability to whiten, where wealthier individuals are more likely to be classified as white, regardless of phenotypic appearance. It is by this changing of social status that blacks achieve blanqueamiento. In his study, Marcus Eugenio Oliveira Lima showed that groups of Brazilians succeeded more when whitened.\n\nBlanqueamiento has also been seen as a way to better the economy. In the case of Brazil, immigration policies that would help whiten the nation were seen as progressive ways to modernize and achieve capitalism. In Cuba, blanqueamiento policies limited economic opportunities for African descendants, resulting in their reduced upward mobility in education, property, and employment sectors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2942922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2942922", "title": "City Under the Sea", "text": "City Under the Sea\n\nCity Under the Sea (released as War-Gods of the Deep in the US) is a 1965 science fiction film. It was directed by Jacques Tourneur (his final film) and starred Vincent Price, Tab Hunter, Susan Hart and David Tomlinson.\n\nThe plot concerns the discovery of a lost city beneath the sea off the coast of Cornwall. Price is the captain overseeing a group of sailors who have lived there for more than a century where the peculiar mix of gases has allowed them to extend their lifespan.\n\nThe film was made in the tradition of the period fantasies started with Disney's \"20,000 Leagues Under the Sea\" (1954). The film attempted to capitalize on the series of Edgar Allan Poe films that had been made by Roger Corman, starring Price. To this extent the film took the title of a Poe poem, \"The City in the Sea\", and attempted to exploit the Poe films' trend, even though the plot is only loosely based on the poem, with a recitation of the poem at the end of the film.\n\nAround the turn of the century, American mining engineer Ben Harris is working on the Cornish coast in England when he finds a body washed up on the beach.\n\nBen makes inquiries at the nearby hotel. While talking to the hotelier's daughter, fellow American Jill Tregellis, and an eccentric artist, Harold Tufnell-Jones, a mysterious intruder appears but disappears.\n\nLater that night Jill is kidnapped by gill men. Ben, Harold and Harold's chicken follow the trail through a secret door into the caves under the house where they are sucked into a pool.\n\nThey emerge in a cavernous city on the ocean floor. The city was built by a race of ancients who survive only as a breed of gill men. The city is now inhabited by a group of smugglers led by the cruel and tyrannical Captain who hid down there in 1803 and due to the strange mixture of oxygen have not aged in over a century. However, the volcano that powers the city has become unstable. The Captain now imprisons them until Ben can come up with a means of maintaining it.\n\nDan, one of the Captain's men who wishes to leave, offers to help the two escape, provided they use their influence to secure him a full pardon for his past crimes of smuggling. The Captain finds out and reveals that because of the gas they've breathed for so long, exposure to sunlight would cause them to age rapidly and die. Dan is then sent to the surface as a means of execution while Ben and Harold are granted an audience with Jill. Whereupon they meet Rev. Jonathan Ives, who had vanished several decades ago from the surface.\n\nThe Captain it is shown is under the delusion that Jill is his deceased wife Beatrice, who he believes has returned to him.\n\nRealising though that Ben and Harold are untrustworthy, the Captain decides to allow the Gill Men to sacrifice the two as a means to appease the volcano's wrath. While they await this, Jill and Ives free them and Ives instructs them all on how to escape the city. The three make it to the airlock and trek across the ocean floor to a cave, containing a tunnel that leads to the surface.\n\nThe Captain and his men pursue them there, but frequent volcanic eruptions cause rockfalls that bury him and his men. Ben and his friends decide to return to the sea and attempt to reach shore on foot. The Captain meanwhile digs himself free and follows the tunnel to the surface, where the sunlight does indeed age him to death.\n\nBen and the rest make it to shore and watch as the volcano erupts, finally destroying the city.\n\n\nShooting took place in the United Kingdom. Charles Bennett says he wrote a good script and AIP wanted him to come to Britain to work on the script but would not pay his way. The script was rewritten in Britain by Louis M Heyward. Bennett hated the changes and called the resulting film \"the worst thing I was ever involved in.\"\n\nAccording to Susan Hart, Charles Bennett's original script was good but was heavily rewritten. She also says there was tension between the producers, Dan Haller and his British counterpart George Willoughby.\n\nLouis M. Heyward confirms this tension and admits to rewriting the script to add humour; in particular, he says he added the comic chicken and introduced the character played by David Tomlinson. Heyward says that Willoughby quit after these changes.\n\nThe film was released in New York on a double bill with \"Beach Blanket Bingo\". \"New York Times\" thought it was the better of the two movies, calling it \"a briny safari\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1494233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1494233", "title": "Dance marathon", "text": "Dance marathon\n\nDance marathons are events in which people dance or walk to music for an extended period of time. They started as dance contests in the 1920s and developed into entertainment events during the Great Depression in the 1930s. Before the development of \"reality shows\", dance marathons blurred the line between theatre and reality. Also known as endurance contests, dance marathons attracted people to compete as a way to achieve fame or win monetary prizes. The 1969 film \"They Shoot Horses, Don't They?\", based on the 1935 novel of the same title written by Horace McCoy, a bouncer at several such marathons, popularized the idea and prompted students at Northwestern University, Pennsylvania State University, Indiana University, Ohio State University, the University of Florida, the University of Iowa, and the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill to create charity dance marathons. Marathons could last anywhere from a few hours to several weeks.\n\nDance marathons became popular in the United States during the Great Depression. The popularity of dance marathons began in 1923 when a woman named Alma Cummings danced continuously for 27 hours with six different partners. After Cummings established her record, dance marathons became common in the United States. Initially, participants competed in order to break Cummings's record, but later on people began to compete to win prizes, which could range from money to publicity.\n\nDance marathons were a huge hit during the Great Depression as they provided contestants and spectators food, shelter and the opportunity to earn cash prizes, at a time when many people needed a meal and free entertainment. The dances were popular at this time not only because these events supplied basic human needs to both the contestants and audience, but are also popular due to the sadistic pleasure, or power the audience felt through watching the contestants compete in the grueling event.\n\nThe depression era marathons faded in the public's enthusiasm in the late 1930s due to increased municipal ordinances and the decreased number of towns where the seamier side of the promotions were unknown. The improving economic conditions and the American entry into World War II also contributed to their demise.\n\nRules vary widely, but one common rule of the marathon stated that the participants could not fall asleep, although some marathons would allow one part of the team to sleep as long as their teammates continued dancing. It was important for the team to keep moving because if they stopped, they would be disqualified from the contest. Contestants were only allowed to leave the dance floor for hygienic or medical purposes, to change clothing, or for other similar circumstances. A mixture of other elements were incorporated in the marathons including elimination sprints, raffles, mud wrestling and fake weddings of competitors. Oftentimes, the type of music played at a dance marathon changed throughout the duration of it. It consisted of a mix of slow and upbeat music to give the contestants breaks and also keep them going and energized. Spectators were allowed to come in and watch the marathon and the contestants competing. Often, viewers were able to pay 25 cents to watch the marathon for as long as they wished.\n\nAlthough many people supported marathons because they were sources of entertainment, there were outside groups that opposed the marathons. Some external groups did not like what the marathons were doing to participants. Movie theater owners, church groups, and women's groups were among those that opposed the marathons. Movie theatre owners were unhappy because people were paying to watch the marathons instead of attending films. Churches were unhappy with the way that the contestants danced with each other as it was not socially acceptable during the time period. Women's groups were upset because they thought it was unethical to charge spectators to watch dancers humiliate themselves.\n\nIn 1928, Seattle passed an ordinance prohibiting dance marathons within city limits when a woman attempted suicide after competing in a 19-day marathon and receiving 5th place. Other states followed Seattle's precedent shortly after. Although marathons were extremely popular, they were also dangerous. During a marathon in the 1920s, a man named Homer Morehouse was the first contestant to dance in the marathon, but after dancing for 87 hours, he collapsed from exhaustion and died on the dance floor.\n\nToday, over 250 colleges and high schools nationwide participate in dance marathons of some sort to raise money for children's hospitals. Some raise money under the Children's Miracle Network and with their help, while others are entirely student-run and operate to benefit partnered charities. Each year, students organize and host different types of dance marathon events in which participants stand on their feet for 12–46 hours straight.\n\nThe Penn State IFC/Panhellenic Dance Marathon, commonly referred to as THON and is run by is a 46-hour-long dance marathon that takes place every February at Pennsylvania State University to raise money to combat children's cancer. THON was started in 1973 by the university's Interfraternity Council and Panhellenic Council, and in its first year raised more than $2,000. Today, it is the largest student-run philanthropy in the world with an overall total since 1977 of more than $147 million. In 2011, THON raised $9,563,016.09, in 2013, $12,374,034.46 and in 2014, $13,343,517.33. The money raised is donated to the Four Diamonds Fund, a charity devoted to defeating pediatric cancer through research and treats patients at the Penn State Hershey Medical Center Children's Hospital.\n\nFounded in 1975, Northwestern University Dance Marathon, commonly referred to as NUDM, is one of the nation's largest student-run philanthropies. The event unites more than 1,500 students, faculty, and staff to participate in the 30-hour dance-a-thon at the end of the winter quarter. The primary beneficiary is chosen each May, and over 300 committee members work throughout the year to help organize the event and raise awareness. In 2013, NUDM raised $1,214,632 to benefit The Danny Did Foundation. In 38 years, NUDM raised more than $13 million for 30 different charities.\n\nThe Indiana University Dance Marathon, commonly known as IU Dance Marathon or IUDM, is a 36-hour Dance Marathon that takes place every November at Indiana University with the purpose of raising both funding and awareness for pediatric care. In 1991, student Jill Stewart started IU Dance Marathon in honor of her friend, Ryan White, who died from AIDS the year before. Since then, IUDM has raised over $32 million for Riley Hospital for Children, including $4,203,326.23 during the 2017 marathon year. IUDM currently supports the Wells Center for Pediatric Research and Riley Hospital for Children. \n\nDance Marathon at University of Florida, commonly referred to as DM at UF, is an annual 26.2 hour dance marathon that takes place every March or April to benefit patients at the University of Florida Health Shands Children's Hospital in Gainesville. In the 24 years of DM at UF, more than $18.2 million has been donated, which makes it the most successful student-run philanthropy in the southeastern United States. In 2018, DM at UF broke records with a total of $3,026,420.19 raised for the Children's Miracle Network Hospitals at the University of Florida Health Shands Children's Hospital.\n\nThe University of Iowa Dance Marathon was founded in 1994 and provides financial and emotional support to pediatric oncology and bone marrow transplant patients treated at the University of Iowa Stead Family Children's Hospital. Over the past 24 years, the University's largest student organization has raised $24,548,226.30 for the children's hospital. In 2018, UIDM raised a total of $3,011,015.24, making it the second Miracle Network Dance Marathon in the country to raise over three million dollars. After a ten-year, $5 million leadership gift to the University of Iowa Stead Family Children's Hospital's building campaign, the 11th floor was named the UI Dance Marathon Pediatric Cancer Center. Since then, the student-run group has donated over $2.2 million to create the UI Dance Marathon Pediatric Oncology Targeted Therapy Program and $2 million to establish the first student-funded chair position at the University of Iowa, the UI Dance Marathon Chair in Pediatric Oncology, Clinical and Translational Research. \n\nDance Marathon at the University of Michigan (DMUM) was founded in 1997 and raises funds awareness for pediatric rehabilitation therapies at C.S. Mott Children's Hospital, part of the University of Michigan Health System, and Beaumont Children's Hospital. The money raised for these programs allows DMUM families to participate in various pediatric rehabilitation therapies. Participants of DMUM volunteer at these therapies in order to build relationships with the children who benefit from these programs. Every March, participants of DMUM stand for over 24 hours at Michigan's Indoor Track and Field to show their dedication to the children, families, and hospitals they support. In 2017, DMUM raised over $510,000 for the kids.\n\nTerp Thon at the University of Maryland was founded in 2009 and has since raised over $4.2 million For The Kids at Children's National Health System in Washington D.C. 100% of the fundraising efforts go directly to Children's National so that no family is turned away due to their inability to pay. Terp Thon creates events throughout the year to aid fundraising and awareness efforts. Each year, Terp Thon continues to break records and in 2014 became the youngest dance marathon to enter the Top 10 Dance Marathon programs in the country. In 2015, Terp Thon raised more than $600,000. In 2017, Terp Thon raised over $1 million becoming the youngest ever Dance Marathon to accomplish this.\n\nPurdue University Dance Marathon, commonly referred to as PUDM, was founded in 2005 and has since raised over 6.7 million dollars for the kids at Riley Hospital for Children. PUDM consists of a number of fundraising events throughout the year all leading up to an 18-hour dance marathon each fall. PUDM is the largest student-run organization on Purdue's campus. In 2017 PUDM raised a record setting 1.125 million dollars.\n\nWith more than one beneficiary, FSU's dance marathon benefits CMNH and the FSU College of Medicine Pediatric Outreach Program. FSU's dance marathon Executive Director Felicia Armstrong participated during her four years of college and loves the sense of community the marathon brings to both students and families. “[It’s about being] a part of something bigger than yourself,” she said. And it's definitely bigger than any of us with over 1,000 students participating in letter-writing campaigns and sponsorships with local businesses, like Insomnia Cookies, to raise money. The marathon has raised more than $6 million for the kids since 1996. The 2018 campaign raised a total of $2,152,382 for Children's Miracle Network, surpassing the previous year's record by $322,214.\n\nRutgers University Dance Marathon (RUDM) is the largest, student-run philanthropic event in New Jersey. RUDM's mission is to provide emotional and financial support for children who are a part of Embrace Kids Foundation. RUDM participants dance to help raise funds and awareness that goes towards Embrace Kids Foundation's mission to support the non-medical needs of children with cancer, sickle cell, and other serious disorders.\nSince 1999, RUDM has raised over $6.8 million for Embrace Kids Foundation. The money raised has helped countless families in the tri-state area cope with the numerous challenges of pediatric cancer. All the money RUDM raises goes directly to Embrace Kids Foundation and helps support the non-medical needs of children with blood disorders and cancer. In 2017, RUDM managed to surpass the coveted goal and raised over a million dollars for the cause.\n\nNew York Dance Marathon (NYDM) is New York University's Dance Marathon on campus benefiting the Andrew McDonough B+ Foundation. NYDM began as a collective movement between the Fraternity and Sorority members on NYU's campus in September 2012. NYU's inaugural dance marathon, took place on November 23, 2013, and with an original goal of $46,000, NYDM surpassed this raising $126,020.66. This became the most successful first year dance marathon in US history. NYDM's inaugural year inspired not only the NYU Fraternity and Sorority members, but the entire NYU community. In five years time, NYDM has raised over $1,700,000 for the B+ Foundation.\n\nRaiseRED Dance Marathon is the largest student run philanthropic organization at the University of Louisville and hosts the largest event on campus. RaiseRED is an 18-hour dance marathon that takes place in February to celebrate a year of fundraising efforts. All of the money that is raised benefits the research and funding of the University of Louisville Pediatric Oncology and Hematology clinic. With the help of raiseRED, the clinic has been able to make research advancements in immunotherapy, and fund a full-time social worker to support the families and children being treated. RaiseRED began in 2014 and raised $150,000 and has since raised $1.8 million for the clinic. In 2018, raiseRED raised over $600,000 for pediatric cancer and blood disease research.\n\nDance Marathon at UCLA, in its 11th year in 2012 and raised a total of $3 million, benefits the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation, Project Kindle, One Heartland, and the UCLA AIDS Institute. South Glens Falls High School's dance marathon SHMD has raised over 6.3 million dollars over the past 40 years, and donates the money to those who need it in their communities along with organizations. They raised $823,000 in 2017. Stanford's Dance Marathon benefits primarily Partners in Health and FACE AIDS, and they also choose a local beneficiary each year. UDance Marathon at the University of Delaware has raised over 3.4 million in 8 years for the B Positive Foundation, and holds its 12-hour event every March. Most recently, in March 2016, UDance efforts raised $1,701,667 for the Andrew McDonough B+ Foundation.\n\nOther colleges that have dance marathons include: West Virginia University, Syracuse University, Hope College, Elon University, University of Georgia, The Ohio State University, University of Texas at Austin, Texas State University, University of Kentucky, University of Southern California, Indiana University, University of Central Florida, Florida State University, University of Alabama, Auburn University, Rutgers University, Stanford University, Bowling Green State University, Southern Illinois University Edwardsville, University of Connecticut, Washington University in St. Louis, UCLA, University of Maryland, University of North Carolina, Louisiana State University, North Carolina State University, Wake Forest University, Ball State University, University of Iowa, Iowa State University, University of Northern Iowa, University of Michigan, Purdue University, University of Florida, University of South Florida, University of Utah, University of Missouri, Clemson University, University of South Carolina, Temple University, Vanderbilt University, New Jersey Institute of Technology, SUNY New Paltz, Indiana State University, and DePaul University.\n\n"}
{"id": "9931150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9931150", "title": "Darker than Black", "text": "Darker than Black\n\nDarker than Black, also known as , is an anime television series created and directed by Tensai Okamura and animated by Bones. It premiered across Japan from April 5, 2007 on MBS, TBS, and its affiliated broadcast stations, with its satellite television premiere in Japan on Animax in May 2007. The music for the series is composed by Yoko Kanno. The series has also been adapted into two manga series, which are serialized in \"Monthly Asuka\" and in \"Young Gangan\".\n\nA sequel titled premiered in Japan on October 8, 2009.\n\nOn January 21, 2016, it was announced that Funimation, the North American distributor for the anime, no longer holds the license for the first season.\n\nTen years ago, a mysterious spatial anomaly now known as \"Heaven's Gate\" appeared in South America, shortly followed by the opening of \"Hell's Gate\" in Tokyo altering the sky and wreaking havoc on the landscape. The real stars disappeared, replaced by false stars. During this time, people possessing various special abilities—called \"Contractors\"—emerged, each capable of different supernatural feats. Each Contractor has a corresponding fake star, which reacts to their activities. As such, Contractors are usually identified by their star's Messier catalogue number. Kept secret from the masses, these individuals are known to murder in cold blood, smothering unnecessary emotions with logic and rationality. Their incredible abilities, however, are gained at the cost of their humanity; Contractors are thus named because of an involuntary compulsion to \"pay the price\" each time their power is used, which can range from eating particular foods or completing meaningless tasks, to self-harm and change their bodies in peculiar ways. Various nations and organizations around the world train and utilize Contractors as spies and assassins, resulting in violent battles for valuable objects and information.\n\nFollowing the disastrous Heaven's War, the United States lost its dominant position as a superpower to a mysterious organization named the Syndicate. The story revolves around a Chinese contractor codenamed \"Hei\" as he undertakes various espionage and assassination missions in Tokyo under the direction of the aforementioned Syndicate. It eventually reveals a plan of the Syndicate to erase the existence of contractors, and a resistance put up by contractors from the Syndicate itself and various espionage agencies.\n\n\"Darker than Black\" was conceptualized by Tensai Okamura and produced by Bones and Aniplex. The series premiered on Tokyo Broadcasting System and Mainichi Broadcasting System's Thursday late night anime broadcasting timeslot, replacing the Sunrise series \"\" on April 5, 2007, and similar to \"Code Geass\" incorporated corporate sponsorship of Japan News Network partners Pizza Hut and Nifty, where episodes of the series was streamed every week during the series' broadcast run. It completed its initial run on September 27, 2007, and received its broadcasting satellite premiere on Animax from May 8, 2007 to October 23, 2007. The series was also aired in English on Animax Asia, Animax's English language networks in Southeast Asia and South Asia from December 2008 onwards. The series made its North American television debut when it started airing on the Funimation Channel September 6, 2010.\n\nThe series has been released in Japan by Aniplex across nine DVDs, each containing three episodes, except for the first DVD, which had only two. The ninth and final DVD included an original video animation, which expanded upon the romantic relationships between characters. The DVDs were released between July 25, 2007 and March 26, 2008 by Aniplex. FUNimation received the license for the series in Region 1 and has released one DVD compilation with two more coming in the future. The first English DVD was released on November 25, 2008 and the second and third DVDs were released on January 20, 2009 and March 10, 2009 respectively. Volume 4 was released on May 5, 2009 with Volume 5 released on June 23, 2009. Volume 6 was released on August 11, 2009 and is now available. In May 2010, Funimation released the entire first season in a complete box set; it was originally released in March, but was recalled due to a defective disk. The Blu-ray Box was released in Japan on September 30, 2009 with a guidebook with several unreleased music tracks not available in the OSTs. The opening themes are \"HOWLING\" by abingdon boys school (eps 1-14) and \"Kakusei Heroism ~The Hero Without A Name~\" by An Cafe (eps 15-23,25) and the ending themes are \"Tsukiakari\" by Rie fu (eps 1-14) and \"Dreams\" by HIGH and MIGHTY COLOR (eps 15-24).\n\nA document containing information about Bones staff and production details, was leaked onto the Japanese filesharing site uploader.jp, within the Microsoft Excel spreadsheet format, on July 2008. Among other details, including confidential contact information in regards to Bones staff members, it revealed that a second \"Darker than Black\" and \"Fullmetal Alchemist\" series was in production and were being directed by Tensai Okamura and Yasuhiro Irie respectively. This information regarding \"Fullmetal Alchemist\", which had never been previously released, was later proven to be true on January 2009. In an official statement posted on Bones' official website, co-founder and president Masahiko Minami claimed that the document was not released by the studio themselves but by an unnamed third-party. In a later statement, Minami also stated in regards to the two new series, \"It hasn't been decided yet. We are interested in doing them. As original science-fiction works, they were extremely fascinating. With these kinds of dramatic story lines, I feel that there's a lot we could do potentially.\" Six months later, however, the second series for \"Fullmetal Alchemist\" was confirmed to be in production with Yasuhiro Irie as director, thus confirming the document's validity. The second Darker than Black series was confirmed in the 12th issue of Square Enix's Young Gangan Magazine. In the 14th issue of Young Gangan, the title was revealed as . The sequel began airing in October 2009 and ended in December 2009. At Anime Expo 2010, Funimation Entertainment announced that they had licensed the second season. The opening theme is \"Tsukiakari no Michishirube\" (ツキアカリのミチシルベ; \"Guidepost of the Moonlight\") by Stereopony (eps 2-) and the ending theme is \"From Dusk Till Dawn\" by abingdon boys school.\n\nThese OVAs, also known as , are set in the time between the two series. Hei and Yin have left Tokyo and are on the run from the Syndicate. In the first episode, conflict ensues in Okinawa, where the agents from the Syndicate attempt to abduct Yin but are eventually unsuccessful. Hei and Yin then leave for Hong Kong. There are 4 OVAs in total, filling the gap with Hei and Yin left between season 1 and 2. The ending theme is \"DARKER THAN BLACK\" by Yasushi Ishii.\n\nA manga, illustrated by Nokiya, was serialized in Monthly Asuka. Naoshi Komi released the series to two \"tankōbon\" on August 8, 2007 and January 26, 2008 respectively. The series has been licensed for a North American release by Yen Press. A second manga, illustrated by Yuji Iwahara, the original character designer for the anime, finished serializing in Square Enix's Young Gangan seinen magazine under the title in March 2011. This is a separate one from the first and it is a new story taking place one year after the events of season 1 and it replaces the events of both the OVAs and season 2 completely.\n\nThe original soundtrack was composed by Yoko Kanno in 2007 and contains a total of 20 tracks including the first opening and ending themes performed by Abingdon boys school and Rie fu. Other non-instrumental songs were written by Tim Jensen and performed by Mai Yamane (tracks 8, 10) and James Wendt (tracks 14, 19). It peaked at number 57 on the Oricon albums chart.</small>\nThe series has received positive reviews, with praise directed at its use of noir themes and plot development compared to other action anime. The anime also was awarded Best Original Anime of The Year by GoGoplex, a popular magazine for teens. In the 2007 Japan Media Arts Festival, it was one of the jury's recommendations from the category \"Animation Division/Long Animation.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "37322450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37322450", "title": "Despicable Me (franchise)", "text": "Despicable Me (franchise)\n\nDespicable Me is an animated comedy film franchise produced by Illumination and distributed by Universal Pictures. It consists of four feature films (including a spin-off), eleven short films and additional merchandise. It centers on Gru, a super-villain (who later becomes a dad and secret agent), his yellow-colored Minions; his three adoptive daughters, Margo, Edith and Agnes, and his wife, Lucy Wilde.\n\nThe franchise began with the 2010 film of the same name and its 2013 and 2017 sequels \"Despicable Me 2\" (2013) and \"Despicable Me 3\" (2017). A prequel featuring Gru's Minions, titled \"Minions\", was released in 2015. A sequel titled \"Minions 2\" will be released in 2020. It also includes a simulator ride attraction, \"Despicable Me Minion Mayhem\", at Universal Studios Florida, Universal Studios Hollywood, and Universal Studios Japan. It is the highest-grossing animated film franchise in box office history, and the 13th highest-grossing film franchise of all time. It is also the first and only animated franchise with two films grossing over $1 billion worldwide (\"Minions\" with $1.16 billion and \"Despicable Me 3\" with $1.03 billion).\n\n\"Despicable Me\", the first film in the series, and the first film from Illumination Entertainment, was released on July 9, 2010. It was directed by Pierre Coffin and Chris Renaud, based on an original story by Sergio Pablos and written by Cinco Paul and Ken Daurio. The film stars Steve Carell as the voice of Gru, Miranda Cosgrove as Margo, Dana Gaier as Edith, Elsie Fisher as Agnes, Jason Segel as Vector, Russell Brand as Dr. Nefario and Julie Andrews as Marlena Gru, Gru's mother. It tells the story of Gru, a super-villain who adopts three girls, Margo, Edith and Agnes, from an orphanage to try and steal a shrink ray from Vector (otherwise known as Victor), his rival, to shrink and steal the Earth's moon. \"Despicable Me\" received positive reviews, and grossed over $543 million worldwide, against a budget of $69 million, launching a new franchise.\n\nA sequel, \"Despicable Me 2\", released on July 3, 2013, was once again directed by Pierre Coffin and Chris Renaud, and written by Cinco Paul and Ken Daurio. Steve Carell, Russell Brand, Miranda Cosgrove, Dana Gaier, and Elsie Fisher reprise their roles as Gru, Dr. Nefario, Margo, Edith and Agnes respectively. Kristen Wiig, who voiced Miss Hattie in the first film, voices Lucy Wilde, an agent of the Anti-Villain League who recruits Gru to take down a new villain. New cast members include Benjamin Bratt as Eduardo; Bratt replaced the previously cast Al Pacino. Steve Coogan voices Silas Ramsbottom, lead director of the Anti-Villain League (AVL). The sequel was met with generally positive reviews and grossed more than its predecessor with over $970 million worldwide.\n\nA third film, \"Despicable Me 3\", was released on June 30, 2017. The film was directed by Pierre Coffin and Kyle Balda, and co-directed by Eric Guillon. Cinco Paul and Ken Daurio, the writers of the first two films, returned to write the screenplay for the third film. Steve Carell, Kristen Wiig, Miranda Cosgrove, Dana Gaier, and Steve Coogan reprise their roles as Gru, Lucy Wilde, Margo, Edith, and Silas Ramsbottom respectively (with Julie Andrews reprising her role as Marlena Gru, and Pierre Coffin as the Minions). Carell also voiced Gru's long-lost twin brother Dru. New cast members included Trey Parker as the voice of Balthazar Bratt, and Nev Scharrel (replacing Elsie Fisher, due to being mature for the role) as the new voice of Agnes. The film received mixed reviews by critics and grossed more than its predecessors with over $1 billion worldwide.\n\nIllumination's CEO Chris Meledandri said in September 2017 that a fourth \"Despicable Me\" film is in the works.\n\nA prequel to \"Despicable Me\", featuring the Minions, was released on July 10, 2015. Written by Brian Lynch, it was directed by Pierre Coffin and Kyle Balda and produced by Chris Meledandri and Janet Healy. Sandra Bullock voiced Scarlet Overkill, the villain of the film and Jon Hamm voiced her husband and inventor, Herb Overkill.. The film received mixed reviews by critics and grossed more than $1.1 billion worldwide.\n\nA sequel to \"Minions\" was officially announced on the date January 25, 2017, with a scheduled release date of July 3, 2020. It will be directed by Kyle Balda, with co-direction by \"Legends of Chamberlain Heights\" co-creator, Brad Ableson, and written by Brian Lynch.\n\nThree short films based on the \"Despicable Me\" film, \"Home Makeover\", \"Orientation Day\" and \"Banana\", were released on December 14, 2010 on the film's DVD and Blu-ray. The \"Despicable Me 2\" DVD and Blu-ray, released on December 10, 2013, included another three short films: \"Puppy\", \"Panic in the Mailroom\", and \"Training Wheels\". A series of Minions short films screened in 2015 with \"Minions\". Another short film, titled \"Mower Minions\", was released in 2016, with \"The Secret Life of Pets\", being the first short \"Minions\" film released theatrically.\n\nAfter the events of \"Despicable Me\", two Minions help Margo, Edith and Agnes renovate Gru's house, so the inspector does not take the girls back to Miss Hattie's Home for Girls.\n\nThree new Minions go for bomb-carrying duty, which was harder than they thought when they suddenly have an argument with two others carrying a giant bomb.\n\nThree minions fight over a banana. In the process, they wreak havoc in the Minions' workplace.\n\nA minion watches neighbors walking their dogs on the street, which leads him to search for a puppy of his own. Despite several attempts failing, he comes across a UFO that takes the role of a puppy for him. After many happy moments，the UFO along with its master is expelled for the mess the UFO have made in Gru’s home. After the minion finds that his puppy is homesick, he sends an email to the UFO’s home planet and sends it home.\n\nTwo Minions, Ken and Mike, are working in a package room to send parcels through different parts of the lab, while Ken is busy playing a handheld video game. When a package containing expired PX-41, the serum that El Macho used to transform the Minions and himself in Despicable Me 2, gets jammed in the pneumatic delivery system, it transforms Mike into an evil Minion- but he keeps shifting back and forth, much to Ken's amusement. At the end, Mike spits out the PX-41 and it lands on some cats, turning them evil.\n\nAgnes is unsatisfied with her toy bike after collapsing off it while attempting to catch up to an ice cream truck with Margo, Edith and their friends. Three Minions then volunteer to modify the bike and help Agnes improve her skills.\n\nAfter a successful robbery at a museum, the Nelsons tell their youngest son Binky, having lost his pacifier in the theft, that now he is a big boy and has to leave his pacifier. Binky at night sneaks into the museum and finds his pacifier. Just as he takes it the guard comes and finds all the museum artifacts missing and finds Binky and tells him to return all the property but instead he causes a statue to fall over the guard and takes his pacifier. In the end the Nelson parents return to see Binky at night in his room and find him sleeping calmly. As they leave the room Binky takes out the pacifier and the guard's hat and wears it.\n\nTwo Minions working in a secret bomb laboratory compete upon numerous meaningless daily affairs to kill time, ending up leaving the lab in a mess.\n\nTwo Minions look after a cave baby while a caveman goes to find a bull to eat for lunch. But it's harder than the Minions think.\n\n\"Mower Minions\" was released on July 8, 2016 with \"The Secret Life of Pets\". In this short film, several Minions mow a lawn at a retiring home to earn a blender they saw on a TV commercial. However, all their works are chaotic,such as one Minion having their head stuck in a bee hive, one Minion blackened and naked after an explosion, one being shaped like a balloon in the hazmat, and another Minion ends up nauseous with their face turning green. However, the old people feel very entertained. For this the Minions get 2000 pennies to get the blender. Shortly after, they see a commercial of an improved version of the blender and then go to earn more money to buy a new one.\n\nAfter the events of \"Despicable Me 3\", we follow Kyle and his secret life when Gru and his family are gone. \n\n\"Yellow is the New Black\" was released theatrically on November 9, 2018, with \"The Grinch\".\n\n\"Despicable Me: The Game\" is an adventure/action game released with the first film, on PlayStation 2, Wii, and PlayStation Portable systems. During the game, the player controls Gru as he fights off enemies. \"Despicable Me: The Game – Minion Mayhem\", on the other hand, is released on Nintendo DS systems only. Instead of controlling Gru himself, the player controls his Minions.\n\nAn action video game (developed by Gameloft), titled \"Despicable Me: Minion Rush\", also played as a Minion who must defeat Vector, El Macho and two villains made for the game, was released with the second film, on iPhone, iPad, Windows Phone, Windows 8, Android, Tizen and Blackberry 10 devices. As of October 2016, the game had been downloaded more than 750 million times.\n\nA free-to-play mobile game developed by Electronic Arts (otherwise known as EA), titled \"Minions Paradise\", was released in summer 2015. Playing as Phil, players will help Minions design and build their own utopia set in a tropical environment.\n\nNovels written by Annie Auerbach are based on the films.\n\n\"Despicable Me Minion Mayhem\" is a simulator ride that opened on July 2, 2012 at Universal Studios Florida and on April 12, 2014 at Universal Studios Hollywood, starring Steve Carell as Gru, Miranda Cosgrove as Margo, Dana Gaier as Edith, Elsie Fisher as Agnes, and Pierre Coffin as the Minions. A similar attraction (featuring a Japanese voice cast) opened on April 21, 2017 at Universal Studios Japan.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe film series has grossed a total of more than $3.7 billion, with an average of over $927 million per film, making the \"Despicable Me\" franchise the highest-grossing animated film franchise, and the 13th highest-grossing film franchise of all time.\n"}
{"id": "361565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=361565", "title": "Dress Act 1746", "text": "Dress Act 1746\n\nThe Dress Act 1746 was part of the Act of Proscription which came into force on 1 August 1746 and made wearing \"the Highland Dress\" — including tartan or a kilt — illegal in Scotland as well as reiterating the Disarming Act. The Jacobite Risings between 1689 and 1746 found their most effective support amongst the Scottish clans, and this act was part of a series of measures attempting to bring the warrior clans under government control. An exemption allowed the kilt to be worn in the army, continuing the tradition established by the Black Watch regiment.\n\nThe law was repealed in 1782. By that time kilts and tartans were no longer ordinary Highland wear, ended by enforcement of the law and by the circumstances of the Highland clearances, but within two years Highland aristocrats set up the Highland Society of Edinburgh and soon other clubs followed with aims including promoting \"the general use of the ancient Highland dress\". This would lead to the Highland pageant of the visit of King George IV to Scotland.\n\n\"Abolition and Proscription of the Highland Dress 19 George II, Chap. 39, Sec. 17, 1746:\"\nOn 1 July 1782 royal assent was given to \"Repeal of the Act Proscribing the Wearing of Highland Dress 22 George III, Chap. 63, 1782\" and a proclamation issued in Gaelic and English announced:\n"}
{"id": "23376116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23376116", "title": "Eden of the East", "text": "Eden of the East\n\nA compilation of the TV series, \"Eden of The East Compilation: Air Communication\", had a limited theatrical release on September 26, 2009. Two other theatrical films have also been released. \"Eden of the East Movie I: The King of Eden\" (taking place six months after the series) was released in Japan on November 28, 2009 and the second movie, \"Eden of the East the Movie II: Paradise Lost\" (taking place hours after \"The King of Eden\"), was released on March 13, 2010. The TV series and both films have been licensed for release in North America by Funimation. The series premiered in the US at Anime Expo in 2010 along with a panel discussion with director Kenji Kamiyama, animation director Satoru Nakamura, and producer Tomohiko Ishii.\n\nOn November 22, 2010, ten missiles strike Japan, but there are no casualties. The apparent terrorist attack is named \"Careless Monday\", and no one takes responsibility. Three months on, university graduate Saki Morimi visits New York City and then Washington D.C. for her graduation trip. Outside the White House, Saki encounters a naked Japanese man suffering from amnesia. The man, after receiving Saki's coat, follows the directions of a concierge, Juiz, on his unusual cell phone, to an apartment where he finds multiple fake passports, choosing the identity of Akira Takizawa. Saki appears to retrieve her passport, and they return to Japan, where a new missile has hit.\n\nTakizawa discovers that his phone carries ¥8.2 billion in digital money, and that he is part of a game, where twelve individuals called Seleção are given ¥10 billion to \"save\" Japan in some way. The Seleção are able to contact Juiz, who can fulfill their orders for a price. However, if the money is used up completely, or for selfish purposes, the individual will be eliminated by the Supporter, the anonymous \"twelfth man\" of the group. During the search for answers, Takizawa learns he was involved in Careless Monday, transporting twenty-thousand NEETs to Dubai after they helped evacuate the missiles' attacks before the attacks.\n\nHe also encounters other Seleção, including police officer Yūsei Kondō, neurosurgeon Dr. Hajime Hiura, and serial killer Kuroha Diana Shiratori, who targets rapists. Saki and her friends, who run a company called Eden of the East, eventually become involved in the conspiracies surrounding Takizawa. The company's name stems from a cell phone app that can recognise and provide details on items and people via social networking.\n\nTakizawa meets Yutaka Itazu, a hikikomori and hacker, who studies Takizawa and the late Kondō's phones, able to access the Seleção requests. They discover Takizawa did not launch the missiles, but it was orchestrated by other Seleção, Daiju Mononobe and Ryō Yūki. After Takizawa leaves, Itazu discovers sixty more missiles will be launched, but is run over by Mononobe before he can inform Takizawa. However, Itazu sends the Seleção database to Eden beforehand, and recovers in hospital.\n\nMononobe approaches Takizawa, inviting him to his endgame. He explains that Mr. Outside is actually Saizō Atō, an elderly businessman who helped rebuild post-war Japan. He believes Atō has since died. Travelling to Atō's business facility, Mononobe reveals to Takizawa that Juiz is an advanced artificial intelligence, housed in twelve supercomputers. Takizawa objects to Mononobe and Yūki's plan and leaves, but not before they reveal Takizawa's made himself a martyr to defend the NEETs from being accused as terrorists, erasing his memory to protect them.\n\nTakizawa reunites with Saki and Eden at his home, a shopping mall in Toyosu, just as the twenty-thousand NEETs return from Dubai on a cargo ship. Takizawa draws everyone to the roof, ordering them to suggest a countermeasure for the approaching missiles. Juiz summons the JSDF to intercept the missiles. Takizawa, knowing he will be unable to pose as a terrorist, asks Juiz to make him the \"King of Japan\", erasing his memory once again, but he slips his cell phone into Saki's pocket beforehand.\n\nSix months after the events of the anime, Takizawa has disappeared, while Saki searches for his whereabouts. Juiz sends Saki a message he recorded before erasing his memory again, Takizawa instructing her to meet in their \"special place\". Following the missile strike, Eden became a successful business, and Takizawa has become a folk hero named the \"Air King\", his image marketed by Seleção, Jintaro Tsuji, hoping to turn him into a martyr or terrorist. Eden also learns Takizawa's last name has been changed to Iinuma, the same as the recently deceased Prime Minister of Japan. Tsuji spreads rumours that Takizawa is Iinuma's illegitimate son.\n\nSaki, realising that Takizawa's message may be alluding to Ground Zero in New York, travels there. She discovers a gun has been smuggled into her luggage, her cab driver fleeing with Takizawa's phone in the back. Saki eventually finds Takizawa, who does not recognise her. They retrieve her purse and Takizawa's phone from the cabbie, Takizawa accepting his lost identity. Eden, who have access to the Seleção database, learn Yūki destroyed his phone, and Dr. Hiura is alive, his memory erased by the Supporter. They later discover that Mononobe has hacked their systems, forcing them to shut Eden down.\n\nTakizawa hopes to find out what became of his mother, travelling with Saki to a carousel where they find a golden ring left there by his mother. They are attacked by men working for Iinuma, and film director Taishi Naomoto, a fellow Seleção, but he is arrested. Kuroha aids Takizawa, informing him that he must return to Japan to confirm his illegitimacy as the Prime Minister's son. Mononobe begins targeting a series of trucks, actually housing the individual Juiz supercomputers, with missiles. He destroy the Supporter and Tsuji's trucks, while Kuroha sacrifices her own to keep Takizawa in the game. She leaves while Takizawa and Saki fly to Japan.\n\nTakizawa and Saki arrive in Japan, meeting Iinuma's widow Chigusa, who removes several strands of Takizawa's hair for a DNA test. Takizawa is separated from Saki, asking her to track down his mother by identifying his pet dog through Eden. Takizawa later escapes his escorts by swapping places with one of the NEETs. He contacts Eden, who have retreated to the university campus, informing him of the Juiz trucks.\n\nSaki and her friend Satoshi Osugi track down Takizawa's mother, Aya, who runs a bar. She admits she lived in New York and had a fling with Iinuma, but does not confirm or deny the identity of Takizawa's father. Aya flees when Mononobe sends police to interrogate her. Takizawa tracks down his Juiz truck, meeting up with Eden members Micchon and Sis, who hijack Mononobe's truck. Eden's leader Kazuomi Hirasawa meets Saizō Atō, discovering he is alive and works as a cab driver, doubling also as the Supporter.\n\nTakizawa and Eden arrive at Iinuma's house, where Mononobe meets Takizawa. Mononobe asks him to retire from the game so he can win and take control of the government. Takizawa agrees as long as Mononobe becomes Prime Minister, but the latter declines. Takizawa goes ahead with his own endgame, addressing Japan using the \"Airship\" phone app, roleplaying as a terrorist but encourages society to change their country for the better. In a final act, he gives all the recipients one yen each.\n\nImpressed, Atō ends the game, declaring all of the Seleção as winners. As a farewell gift, he erases their memories of the game over the phones. However, Takizawa is unaffected, immune to its effects. Mononobe leaves, running into Yūki, who is unaware of what has happened, and tries to murder Mononobe for abandoning him. Mononobe crashes his car, running over Yūki in the process. Takizawa checks the DNA test, discovering he is unrelated to her husband. He departs, kissing Saki and promising to meet her again. In the epilogue, Saki narrates how Eden shut down for a while to support the NEETs. In a final scene, Takizawa meets Atō, and they drive off to speak about future plans.\n\nThe Eden of the East club started out as a small recycling group, but has quickly turned into a springboard for a successful commercial website, thanks to Micchon's revolutionary image recognition engine that resides in the \"Eden\" website and Saki's ability to improve the value of any item, including junk. Soon, the site's ability to work on phones attracted many student subscribers. However, after the students abused the social matchmaking abilities where a girl dropped out and the university launched an investigation, the team slowed development on the project. In addition to Saki, who handles public relations, the members include:\n\nThe club has also used a consultant, , a prodigious yet reclusive hacker nicknamed based on an alternate reading of the Kanji in his name, and the fact that he has been a shut-in since he lost his pants two years before the start of the series. He is voiced by Nobuyuki Hiyama in Japanese and by Newton Pittman in English.\n\nIn the first movie, Eden of the East becomes a small business and the club members try to support Saki and Akira while tracking the Seleção activities.\n\nThe Seleção (Portuguese: \"Selection\") are the participants of the game. Each carries a special \"Noblesse oblige\" cell phone that is credited with 10 billion yen which they must use to \"save Japan\". They can spend the money in whatever manner they wish, using a concierge named Juiz (Portuguese: \"Judge\") to accomplish the goal, however, any Seleção who uses up their money before they can complete their mission, who acts purely for self-interest, or does nothing with the phone for an extended period of time will be eliminated by a person (one of the twelve) called \"The Supporter\". Similarly, if someone breaks the rules they will be eliminated. When someone is declared the winner of the game, the other eleven are eliminated. The person who created the game is named \"Mr. Outside.\"\n\n\nSeleção No. 7 is never seen in the series or films, but Seleção No. 8, a middle-aged man, makes a cameo at the conclusion of the second film during Mr. Outside's closing statement.\n\nThe series was announced in 2008's 23rd issue of Hakusensha's \"Young Animal\" manga magazine, denoting Kamiyama's involvement as creator, director and writer and Umino's involvement as character designer. It was further announced that two theatrical films are also planned for the series, which is stated to premiere on November 28, 2009 and March 2010 respectively, after the television series ends its original run. In March 2009, it was also announced that the series would premiere on noitaminA on April 9, 2009. On March 19, 2009, the official website to the series relaunched with a trailer, which announced that the opening theme would be \"Falling Down\" by English rock band Oasis, while the ending theme was \"futuristic imagination\" by Japanese band School Food Punishment.\n\nOn April 9, 2009, the series began its run of 11 episodes. On September 26, 2009, the studio released \"Eden of the East Compilation: Air Communication\", a film retelling of the events of the series. The studio originally planned for a second season but decided instead that a pair of movies would be a better means of continuing the story; the films were released on November 28, 2009 and January 9, 2010 respectively.\n\nIn North America, the series was released on Blu-ray and DVD in 2010. The movies were released in 2011.\n\n\nThe Japanese release of the first DVD volume debuted on July 29, 2009, in 23rd place on the Oricon video charts with 4,394 copies sold for the week of July 27 - August 2, 2009. The first volume of the Blu-ray Disc release was also released on that day, and debuted in 7th place on the SoundScan Japan Blu-ray Disc charts. The series has won numerous awards since its release, including the TV Feature Award at the 2009 Animation Kobe festival and the best television series of the year award at the ninth annual Tokyo International Anime Fair.\n\nThe series received high marks for its first episode in the Anime News Network Spring 2009 Preview Guide. Reviewers Theron Martin, Carlo Santos, and Casey Brienza each gave the first episode a rating of 4.5 out of 5, while Carl Kimlinger rated it a 5 out of 5.\n\nIn his review, Martin wrote that \"this is not your normal anime series. If you're looking for the new season's most unusual entry, something well departed from all of the game adaptations, shonen action series, and cutesy romances, this one is it.\" Additionally, he praised the artistic aspects of \"outstanding background art, appealing character designs, highly likeable lead characters, and a unique closer.\" He concluded that \"this one does everything it can to draw viewers in with its first episode and get them to want to keep watching, and many will.\"\n\nSantos commented that \"there's only one reason this episode falls short of perfect: it's not until the end that the story really takes off\", but also pointed out the \"slick, expressive animation.\"\n\nBrienza started her review saying \"Well, what the heck; might as well be blunt right from the get-go: I loved it,\" but criticized the \"hackneyed plot\" and claimed it \"has been ripped whole cloth from a Robert Ludlum novel.\" Her praise related to \"the scrupulous, realistic detail of the Washington D.C. setting\" and the \"gentle, whimsical innocence\" of \"Chica Umino's character designs\", as well as \"the humor... and tender hopes of the heroine which reminds me a lot of Hayao Miyazaki.\"\n\nKimlinger, while admitting \"I am not a fan of Kenji Kamiyama\", stated the episode was \"a weird and charming start to a weird and charming show.\" He wrote that \"the first few minutes of Eden are some of the funniest in recent memory\", and commented that \"both leads have a conspicuous excess of likeability, and Kamiyama displays a mastery of smiling humanism that would have been unthinkable earlier in his career\". Like Brienza, he pointed out that \"the debt \"Eden\" owes to \"The Bourne Identity\" is considerable\", but concludes that \"the result is, in a word, superb\".\n\nWriting for the \"Los Angeles Times\", Charles Solomon ranked the series the fourth best anime on his \"Top 10\".\n\n"}
{"id": "56101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56101", "title": "Ethnic conflict", "text": "Ethnic conflict\n\nAn ethnic conflict is a conflict between two or more contending ethnic groups. While the source of the conflict may be political, social, economic or religious, the individuals in conflict must expressly fight for their ethnic group's position within society. This final criterion differentiates ethnic conflict from other forms of struggle.\n\nEthnic conflict does not necessarily have to be violent. In a multi-ethnic society where freedom of speech is protected, ethnic conflict can be an everyday feature of plural democracies. For example, ethnic conflict might be a non-violent struggle for resources divided among ethnic groups. However, the subject of the confrontation must be either directly or symbolically linked with an ethnic group. In healthy multi-ethnic democracies, these conflicts are usually institutionalized and \"channeled through parliaments, assemblies and bureaucracies or through non-violent demonstrations and strikes.\" While democratic countries cannot always prevent ethnic conflict flaring up into violence, institutionalized ethnic conflict does ensure that ethnic groups can articulate their demands in a peaceful manner, which reduces the likelihood of violence. On the other hand, in authoritarian systems, ethnic minorities are often unable to express their grievances. Grievances are instead allowed to fester which might lead to long phases of ethnic silence followed by a violent outburst. Therefore, ethnic peace is an absence of violence, not an absence of conflict. Another consequence is that violent ethnic rebellions often result in political rights for previously marginalized groups.\n\nAcademic explanations of ethnic conflict generally fall into one of three schools of thought: primordialist, instrumentalist or constructivist. Recently, several political scientists have argued for either top-down or bottom-up explanations for ethnic conflict. Intellectual debate has also focused on whether ethnic conflict has become more prevalent since the end of the Cold War, and on devising ways of managing conflicts, through instruments such as consociationalism and federalisation.\n\nThe causes of ethnic conflict are debated by political scientists and sociologists. Explanations generally fall into one of three schools of thought: primordialist, instrumentalist, and constructivist. More recent scholarship draws on all three schools.\n\nProponents of primordialist accounts argue that \"[e]thnic groups and nationalities exist because there are traditions of belief and action towards primordial objects such as biological features and especially territorial location\". Primordialist accounts rely on strong ties of kinship among members of ethnic groups. Donald L. Horowitz argues that this kinship \"makes it possible for ethnic groups to think in terms of family resemblances\".\n\nClifford Geertz, a founding scholar of primordialism, asserts that each person has a natural connection to perceived kinsmen. In time and through repeated conflict, essential ties to one's ethnicity will coalesce and will interfere with ties to civil society. Ethnic groups will consequently always threaten the survival of civil governments but not the existence of nations formed by one ethnic group. Thus, when considered through a primordial lens, ethnic conflict in multi-ethnic society is inevitable.\n\nA number of political scientists argue that the root causes of ethnic conflict do not involve ethnicity \"per se\" but rather institutional, political, and economic factors. These scholars argue that the concept of ethnic war is misleading because it leads to an essentialist conclusion that certain groups are doomed to fight each other when in fact the wars between them that occur are often the result of political decisions.\n\nMoreover, primordial accounts do not account for the spatial and temporal variations in ethnic violence. If these \"ancient hatreds\" are always simmering under the surface and are at the forefront of people's consciousness, then ethnic groups should constantly be ensnared in violence. However, ethnic violence occurs in sporadic outbursts. For example, Varshney points out that although Yugoslavia broke up due to ethnic violence in the 1990s, it had enjoyed a long peace of decades before the USSR collapsed. Therefore, some scholars claim that it is unlikely that primordial ethnic differences alone caused the outbreak of violence in the 1990s.\n\nPrimordialists have reformulated the \"ancient hatreds\" hypothesis and have focused more on the role of human nature. Peterson argues that the existence of hatred and animosity does not have to be rooted in history for it to play a role in shaping human behavior and action: \"If \"ancient hatred\" means a hatred consuming the daily thoughts of great masses of people, then the \"ancient hatreds\" argument deserves to be readily dismissed. However, if hatred is conceived as a historically formed \"schema\" that guides action in some situations, then the conception should be taken more seriously.\"\n\nAnthony Smith notes that the instrumentalist account \"came to prominence in the 1960s and 1970s in the United States, in the debate about (white) ethnic persistence in what was supposed to have been an effective melting pot\". This new theory sought explained persistence as the result of the actions of community leaders, \"who used their cultural groups as sites of mass mobilization and as constituencies in their competition for power and resources, because they found them more effective than social classes\". In this account of ethnic identification, ethnicity and race are viewed as instrumental means to achieve particular ends.\n\nWhether ethnicity is a fixed perception or not is not crucial in the instrumentalist accounts. Moreover, the scholars of this school generally do not oppose the view that ethnic difference plays a part in many conflicts. They simply claim that ethnic difference is not sufficient to explain conflicts.\n\nMass mobilization of ethnic groups can only be successful if there are latent ethnic differences to be exploited, otherwise politicians would not even attempt to make political appeals based on ethnicity and would focus instead on economic or ideological appeals. Hence, it is difficult to completely discount the role of inherent ethnic differences. Additionally, ethnic entrepreneurs, or elites, could be tempted to mobilize ethnic groups in order to gain their political support in democratizing states. Instrumentalists theorists especially emphasize this interpretation in ethnic states in which one ethnic group is promoted at the expense of other ethnicities.\n\nFurthermore, ethnic mass mobilization is likely to be plagued by collective action problems, especially if ethnic protests are likely to lead to violence. Instrumentalist scholars have tried to respond to these shortcomings. For example, Hardin argues that ethnic mobilization faces problems of coordination and not collective action. He points out that a charismatic leader acts as a focal point around which members of an ethnic group coalesce. The existence of such an actor helps to clarify beliefs about the behavior of others within an ethnic group.\n\nA third, constructivist, set of accounts stress the importance of the socially constructed nature of ethnic groups, drawing on Benedict Anderson's concept of the imagined community. Proponents of this account point to Rwanda as an example because the Tutsi/Hutu distinction was codified by the Belgian colonial power in the 1930s on the basis of cattle ownership, physical measurements and church records. Identity cards were issued on this basis, and these documents played a key role in the genocide of 1994.\n\nSome argue that constructivist narratives of historical master cleavages are unable to account for local and regional variations in ethnic violence. For example, Varshney highlights that in the 1960s \"racial violence in the USA was heavily concentrated in northern cities; southern cities though intensely politically engaged, did not have riots\". A constructivist master narrative is often a country level variable whereas we often have to study incidences of ethnic violence at the regional and local level.\n\nScholars of ethnic conflict and civil wars have introduced theories that draw insights from all three traditional schools of thought. In \"The Geography of Ethnic Violence\", for example, Monica Duffy Toft shows how ethnic group settlement patterns, socially constructed identities, charismatic leaders, issue indivisibility, and state concern with precedent setting can lead rational actors to escalate a dispute to violence, even when doing so is likely to leave contending groups much worse off. Such research addresses empirical puzzles that are difficult to explain using primordialist, instrumentalist, or constructivist approaches alone. As Varshney notes, \"pure essentialists and pure instrumentalists do not exist anymore\".\n\nThe end of the Cold War thus sparked interest in two important questions about ethnic conflict: whether ethnic conflict was on the rise and whether given that some ethnic conflicts had escalated into serious violence, what, if anything, could scholars of large-scale violence (security studies, strategic studies, interstate politics) offer by way of explanation.\n\nOne of the most debated issues relating to ethnic conflict is whether it has become more or less prevalent in the post–Cold War period. At the end of the Cold War, academics including Samuel P. Huntington and Robert D. Kaplan predicted a proliferation of conflicts fueled by civilisational clashes, Tribalism, resource scarcity and overpopulation.\n\nThe post–Cold War period has witnessed a number of ethnically-informed secessionist movements, predominantly within the former communist states. Conflicts have involved secessionist movements in the former Yugoslavia, Transnistria in Moldova, Armenians in Azerbaijan, Abkhaz and Ossetians in Georgia. Outside the former communist bloc, ethno-separatist strife in the same period has occurred in areas such as Sri Lanka, West Papua, Chiapas, East Timor, the Basque Country, Catalonia, Southern Sudan and Hazaras in Afghanistan under the Taliban.\n\nHowever, some theorists contend that this does not represent a rise in the incidence of ethnic conflict, because many of the proxy wars fought during the Cold War as ethnic conflicts were actually hot spots of the Cold War. Research shows that the fall of Communism and the increase in the number of capitalist states were accompanied by a decline in total warfare, interstate wars, ethnic wars, revolutionary wars, and the number of refugees and displaced persons. Indeed, some scholars have questioned whether the concept of ethnic conflict is useful at all. Others have attempted to test the \"clash of civilisations\" thesis, finding it to be difficult to operationalise and that civilisational conflicts have not risen in intensity in relation to other ethnic conflicts since the end of the Cold War.\n\nA key question facing scholars who attempt to adapt their theories of interstate violence to explain or predict large-scale ethnic violence is whether ethnic groups could be considered \"rational\" actors.\nPrior to the end of the Cold War, the consensus among students of large-scale violence was that ethnic groups should be considered irrational actors, or semi-rational at best. If true, general explanations of ethnic violence would be impossible. In the years since, however, scholarly consensus has shifted to consider that ethnic groups may in fact be counted as rational actors, and the puzzle of their apparently irrational actions (for example, fighting over territory of little or no intrinsic worth) must therefore be explained in some other way. As a result, the possibility of a general explanation of ethnic violence has grown, and collaboration between comparativist and international-relations sub-fields has resulted in increasingly useful theories of ethnic conflict.\n\nA major source of ethnic conflict in multi-ethnic democracies is over the access to state patronage. Conflicts over state resources between ethnic groups can increase the likelihood of ethnic violence. In ethnically divided societies, demand for public goods decreases as each ethnic group derives more utility from benefits targeted at their ethnic group in particular. These benefits would be less valued if all other ethnic groups had access to them.Targeted benefits are more appealing because ethnic groups can solidify or heighten their social and economic status relative to other ethnic groups whereas broad programmatic policies will not improve their relative worth. Politicians and political parties in turn, have an incentive to favor co-ethnics in their distribution of material benefits. Over the long run, ethnic conflict over access to state benefits is likely to lead to the ethnification of political parties and the party system as a whole where the political salience of ethnic identity increase leading to a self-fulfilling equilibrium: If politicians only distribute benefits on an ethnic basis, voters will see themselves primarily belonging to an ethnic group and view politicians the same way. They will only vote for the politician belonging to the same ethnic group. In turn, politicians will refrain from providing public goods because it will not serve them well electorally to provide services to people not belonging to their ethnic group. In democratizing societies, this could lead to ethnic outbidding and lead to extreme politicians pushing out moderate co-ethnics. Patronage politics and ethnic politics eventually reinforce each other, leading to what Chandra terms a \"patronage democracy\".\n\nThe existence of patronage networks between local politicians and ethnic groups make it easier for politicians to mobilize ethnic groups and instigate ethnic violence for electoral gain since the neighborhood or city is already polarized along ethnic lines. The dependence of ethnic groups on their co-ethnic local politician for access to state resources is likely to make them more responsive to calls of violence against other ethnic groups. Therefore, the existence of these local patronage channels generates incentives for ethnic groups to engage in politically motivated violence.\n\nWhile the link between ethnic heterogeneity and under provision of public goods is generally accepted, there is little consensus around the causal mechanism underlying this relationship. To identify possible causal stories, Humphreys and Habyarimana ran a serious of behavioral games in Kampala, Uganda that involved several local participants completing joint tasks and allocating money amongst them. Contrary to the conventional wisdom, they find that participants did not favor the welfare of their co-ethnics disproportionately. It was only when anonymity was removed and everyone's ethnicity was known did co-ethnics decide to favor each other. Humphreys and Habyarimana argue that cooperation among co-ethnics is primarily driven by reciprocity norms that tend to be stronger among co-ethnics. The possibility of social sanctions compelled those who would not otherwise cooperate with their co-ethnics to do so. The authors find no evidence to suggest that co-ethnics display a greater degree of altruism towards each other or have the same preferences. Ethnic cooperation takes place because co-ethnics have common social networks and therefore can monitor each other and can threaten to socially sanction any transgressors.\n\nA number of scholars have attempted to synthesize the methods available for the resolution, management or transformation of their ethnic conflict. John Coakley, for example, has developed a typology of the methods of conflict resolution that have been employed by states, which he lists as: indigenization, accommodation, assimilation, acculturation, population transfer, boundary alteration, genocide and ethnic suicide. John McGarry and Brendan O'Leary have developed a taxonomy of eight macro-political ethnic conflict regulation methods, which they note are often employed by states in combination with each other. They include a number of methods that they note are clearly morally unacceptable.\n\nWith increasing interest in the field of ethnic conflict, many policy analysts and political scientists theorized potential resolutions and tracked the results of institutional policy implementation. As such, theories often focus on which Institutions are the most appropriate for addressing ethnic conflict.\n\nConsociationalism is a power sharing agreement which coopts the leaders of ethnic groups into the central state's government. Each nation or ethnic group is represented in the government through a supposed spokesman for the group. In the power sharing agreement, each group has veto powers to varying degrees, dependent on the particular state. Moreover, the norm of proportional representation is dominant: each group is represented in the government in a percentage that reflects the ethnicity's demographic presence in the state. Another requirement for Arend Lijphart is that the government must be composed of a \"grand coalition\" of the ethnic group leaders which supposes a top-down approach to conflict resolution.\n\nIn theory, this leads to self governance and protection for the ethnic group. Many scholars maintain that since ethnic tension erupts into ethnic violence when the ethnic group is threatened by a state, then veto powers should allow the ethnic group to avoid legislative threats. Switzerland is often characterized as a successful consociationalist state.\n\nA recent example of a consociational government is the post-conflict Bosnian government that was agreed upon in the Dayton Accords in 1995. A tripartite presidency was chosen and must have a Croat, a Serb, and a Bosniak. The presidents take turns acting as the forefront executive in terms of 8 months for 4 years. Many have credited this compromise of a consociational government in Bosnia for the end of the violence and the following long-lasting peace.\n\nIn contrast to Lijphart, several political scientists and policy analysts have condemned consociationalism. One of the many critiques is that consociationalism locks in ethnic tensions and identities. This assumes a primordial stance that ethnic identities are permanent and not subject to change. Furthermore, this does not allow for any \"others\" that might want to partake in the political process. As of 2012 a Jewish Bosnian is suing the Bosnian government from precluding him from running for presidential office since only a Croat, Serb, or Bosniak can run under the consociational government. Determining ethnic identities in advance and implementing a power sharing system on the basis of these fixed identities is inherently discriminatory against minority groups that might be not be recognized. Moreover, it discriminates against those who do not choose to define their identity on an ethnic or communal basis. In power sharing-systems that are based on pre-determined identities, there is a tendency to rigidly fix shares of representation on a permanent basis which will not reflect changing demographics over time. The categorization of individuals in particular ethnic groups might be controversial anyway and might in fact fuel ethnic tensions.\n\nThe inherent weaknesses in using pre-determined ethnic identities to form power sharing systems has led Ljiphart to argue that adopting a constructivist approach to consociationalism can increase its likelihood of success. The self-determination of ethnic identities is more likely to be \"non-discriminatory, neutral, flexible and self-adjusting.\" For example, in South Africa, the toxic legacy of apartheid meant that successful consociation could only be built on the basis of the self-determination of groups. Ljiphart claims that because ethnic identities are often \"unclear, fluid and flexible,\" self-determination is likely to be more successful than pre-determination of ethnic groups. A constructivist approach to consociational theory can therefore strengthen its value as a method to resolve ethnic conflict.\n\nAnother critique points to the privileging of ethnic identity over personal political choice. Howard has deemed consociationalism as a form of ethnocracy and not a path to true pluralistic democracy. Consociationalism assumes that a politician will best represent the will of his co-ethnics above other political parties. This might lead to the polarization of ethnic groups and the loss of non-ethnic ideological parties.\n\nHorowitz has argued that a single transferable vote system could prevent the ethnification of political parties because voters cast their ballots in order of preference. This means that a voter could cast some of his votes to parties other than his co-ethnic party. This in turn would compel political parties to broaden their manifestos to appeal to voters across the ethnic divide to hoover up second and third preference votes.\n\nThe theory of implementing federalism in order to curtail ethnic conflict assumes that self-governance reduces \"demands for sovereignty\". Hechter argues that some goods such as language of education and bureaucracy must be provided as local goods, instead of statewide, in order to satisfy more people and ethnic groups. Some political scientists such as Stroschein contend that ethnofederalism, or federalism determined along ethnic lines, is \"asymmetric\" as opposed to the equal devolution of power found in non-ethnic federal states, such as the United States. In this sense, special privileges are granted to specific minority groups as concessions and incentives to end violence or mute conflict.\n\nThe Soviet Union divided its structure into ethno-federal sub-states termed Union Republics. The sub-state was named after a titular minority who inhabited the area as a way to Sovietize nationalist sentiments during the 1920s. Brubaker asserts that these titular republics were formed in order to absorb any potential elite led nationalist movements against the Soviet center by incentivizing elite loyalty through advancement in the Soviet political structure.\n\nThus, federalism provides some self-governance for local matters in order to satisfy some of the grievances which might cause ethnic conflict among the masses. Moreover, federalism brings in the elites and ethnic entrepreneurs into the central power structure; this prevents a resurgence of top-down ethnic conflict.\n\nNevertheless, after the fall of the USSR many critiques of federalism as an institution to resolve ethnic conflict emerged. The devolution of power away from the central state can weaken ties to the central state. Moreover, the parallel institutions created to serve a particular nation or ethnic group might provide significant resources for Secession from the central state. As most states are unwilling to give up an integral portion of their territory, secessionist movements may trigger violence.\n\nFurthermore, some competing elite political players may not be in power; they would remain unincorporated into the central system. These competing elites can gain access through federal structures and their resources to solidify their political power in the structure. According to V.P. Gagnon this was the case in the former Yugoslavia and its violent disintegration into its ethno-federal sub-states. Ethnic entrepreneurs were able to take control of the institutionally allocated resources to wage war on other ethnic groups.\n\nA recent theory of ethnic tension resolution is non-territorial autonomy or NTA. NTA has emerged in recent years as an alternative solution to ethnic tensions and grievances in places that are likely to breed conflict. For this reason, NTA has been promoted as a more practical and state building solution than consociationalism. NTA, alternatively known as non-cultural autonomy (NCA), is based on the difference of \"jus solis\" and \"jus sanguinis,\" the principles of territory versus that of personhood. It gives rights to ethnic groups to self-rule and govern matters potentially concerning but limited to: education, language, culture, internal affairs, religion, and the internally established institutions needed to promote and reproduce these facets. In contrast to federalism, the ethnic groups are not assigned a titular sub-state, but rather the ethnic groups are dispersed throughout the state unit. Their group rights and autonomy are not constrained to a particular territory within the state. This is done in order not to weaken the center state such as in the case of ethnofederalism.\n\nThe origin of NTA can be traced back to the Marxists works of Otto Bauer and Karl Renner. NTA was employed during the interwar period, and the League of Nations sought to add protection clauses for national minorities in new states. In the 1920s, Estonia granted some cultural autonomy to the German and Jewish populations in order to ease conflicts between the groups and the newly independent state.\n\nIn Europe, most notably in Belgium, NTA laws have been enacted and created parallel institutions and political parties in the same country. In Belgium, NTA has been integrated within the federal consociational system. Some scholars of ethnic conflict resolution claim that the practice of NTA will be employed dependent on the concentration and size of the ethnic group asking for group rights.\n\nOther scholars, such as Clarke, argue that the successful implementation of NTA rests on the acknowledgement in a state of \"universal\" principles: true Rule of Law, established human rights, stated guarantees to minorities and their members to use their own quotidien language, religion, and food practices, and a framework of anti-discrimination legislation in order to enforce these rights. Moreover, no individual can be forced to adhere, identify, or emphasize a particular identity (such as race, gender, sexuality, etc.) without their consent in order for NTA to function for its purpose.\n\nNonetheless, Clarke critiques the weaknesses of NTA in areas such as education, a balance between society wide norms and intracommunity values; policing, for criminal matters and public safety; and political representation, which limits the political choices of an individual if based solely on ethnicity. Furthermore, the challenge in evaluating the efficacy of NTA lies in the relatively few legal implementations of NTA.\n\nEmphasizing the limits of approaches that focus mainly on institutional answers to ethnic conflicts—which are essentially driven by ethnocultural dynamics of which political and/or economic factors are but elements—Gregory Paul Meyjes urges the use of intercultural communication and cultural-rights based negotiations as tools with which to effectively and sustainably address inter-ethnic strife. Meyjes argues that to fully grasp, preempt, and/or resolve such conflicts—whether with or without the aid of territorial or non-territorial institutional mechanism(s) -- a cultural rights approach grounded in intercultural knowledge and skill is essential.\n\nInstitutionalist arguments for resolving ethnic conflict often focus on national-level institutions and do not account for regional and local variation in ethnic violence within a country. Despite similar levels of ethnic diversity in a country, some towns and cities have often found to be especially prone to ethnic violence. For example, Ashutosh Varshney, in his study of ethnic violence in India, argues that strong inter-ethnic engagement in villages often disincentivizes politicians from stoking ethnic violence for electoral gain. Informal interactions include joint participation in festivals, families from different communities eating together or allowing their children to play with one another. Every day engagement between ethnic groups at the village level can help to sustain the peace in the face of national level shocks like an ethnic riot in another part of the country. In times of ethnic tension, these communities can quell rumors, police neighborhoods and come together to resist any attempts by politicians to polarize the community. The stronger the inter-ethnic networks are, the harder it is for politicians to polarize the community even if it may be in their political interest to do so.\n\nHowever, in cities, where the population tends to be much higher, informal interactions between ethnic groups might not be sufficient to prevent violence. This is because many more links are needed to connect everyone, and therefore it is much more difficult to form and strengthen inter-ethnic ties. In cities, formal inter-ethnic associations like trade unions, business associations and professional organizations are more effective in encouraging inter-ethnic interactions that could prevent ethnic violence in the future. These organizations force ethnic groups to come together based on shared economic interests that overcomes any pre-existing ethnic differences. For example, inter-ethnic business organizations serve to connect the business interests of different ethnic groups which would increase their desire to maintain ethnic harmony. Any ethnic tension or outbreak of violence will go against their economic interests and therefore, over time, the salience of ethnic identity diminishes.\n\nInteractions between ethnic groups in formal settings can also help countries torn apart by ethnic violence to recover and break down ethnic divisions. Paula Pickering, a political scientist, who studies peace-building efforts in Bosnia, finds that formal workplaces are often the site where inter-ethnic ties are formed. She claims that mixed workplaces lead to repeated inter-ethnic interaction where norms of professionalism compel everyone to cooperate and to treat each other with respect, making it easier for individuals belonging to the minority group to reach out and form relationships with everyone else. Nevertheless, Giuliano's research in Russia has shown that economic grievances, even in a mixed workplace, can be politicized on ethnic lines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55659910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55659910", "title": "Etiquette in Myanmar", "text": "Etiquette in Myanmar\n\nThe code of etiquette in Myanmar, or the code of social behavior that governs human interactions, is largely derived from Theravada Buddhism. and focuses on the core values of this religion. Like many social cultures, etiquette varies greatly depending on one's status relative to the person in question. Some conventions may be very regional practices, and thus may not exist in all regions of Myanmar. Some customs have changed over the course of Burmese history. The following are generally accepted modern customs in Myanmar.\n\nMyanmar is a sovereign state located in the Southeast Asian region. Myanmar is bordered by India and Bangladesh to its west, Thailand and Laos to its east and China to its north and northeast. Its capital city is Naypyidaw, and its largest city and former capital is Yangon (Rangoon). Myanmar has been a member of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) since 1997.\n\nEarly civilisations in Myanmar included the Tibeto-Burman-speaking Pyu city-states in Upper Burma and the Mon kingdoms in Lower Burma. In the 9th century, the Bamar people entered the upper Irrawaddy valley and, following the establishment of the Pagan Kingdom in the 1050s, the Burmese language, culture and Theravada Buddhism slowly became dominant in the country. The Pagan Kingdom fell due to the Mongol invasions and several warring states emerged. In the 16th century, reunified by the Taungoo Dynasty, the country was for a brief period the largest empire in the history of Mainland Southeast Asia. The early 19th century Konbaung Dynasty ruled over an area that included modern Myanmar and briefly controlled Manipur and Assam as well. The British took over the administration of Myanmar after three Anglo-Burmese Wars in the 19th century and the country became a British colony. Myanmar was granted independence in 1948, as a democratic nation. Following a coup d'état in 1962, it became a military dictatorship. \n\nMyanmar's recent political history is underlined by its struggle to establish democratic structures amidst conflicting fractions. This political transition from a closely held military rule to a free democratic system is widely believed to be determining the future of Myanmar. The resounding victory of Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy in 2015 general elections has raised hope for a successful culmination of this transition.\n\nThe Myanmar language has various ways to address people of different ranks, ages, and relationships. There are no surnames or first names to properly address a person by. To address a grown person older than oneself, a Burmese person would use \"U\" for adult males and \"Daw\" for adult females. For addressing younger males or male peers, the titles \"Ko\" or \"Maung\" are used, and for younger females or female peers, \"Ma\" is used. Senior officials and teachers are addressed as \"Saya.\" This goes back to Buddhist teaching, where parents and teachers are second only to the Three Jewels ( \"yadana thoun ba\"), together making up the Five Boundless Beneficence ( \"ananda nga ba\"). Using the proper form is an indication to how well bred and correct the speaker is as well as to the status of the individual being addressed. \n\nPersonal pronouns in the Burmese language are gendered. A male would refer to himself as \"Kyun-daw\". A female would refer to herself as \"Kyun-ma\". When speaking to a monk, proper etiquette demands that one change their personal pronoun to \"Da-pyi-daw\". When an elder or superior calls a male, the male will respond with \"Khin-bya\". Likewise, a female would respond with \"Shin\". \n\nAs a predominantly Buddhist country, much deference is given to monks. It is rude to stand on a monk's shadow or point one's feet at a monk. It is also forbidden for a female to touch a monk. Shoes are always taken off upon entering homes, monasteries and pagoda compounds. A custom of the Burmese is to perambulate clockwise ( \"let ya yit\") around a pagoda, not counterclockwise ( \"let wè yit\")..\n\nWhen dining at home, it is not custom to drink alcoholic beverages with meals. Serving spoons are taken with the left hand. Diners begin to eat only after all of the food has been placed on the table, with the eldest served first. In their absence a spoonful of rice is put aside first in the pot as a token of respect ( \"u cha\") before serving the meal. Modern cutlery has become common, though some choose to eat in the traditional way with their fingers.\n\nIn Myanmar, the upper parts of the body, especially the head and face, are considered sacred, while the lower parts, especially the feet, are considered dirty. The Burmese separate things used for the face and head from things used for the lower body, such as towels, cleaning basins, and soaps. Furthermore, underwear is not raised above head level, and a woman's lower body clothes, such as the traditional Longyi, are not placed to dry or hang in areas that a male or a monk may pass, such as upper levels of corridors.\n\nRules of etiquette regarding the feet are numerous. Using the water from a public drinking pot to rinse off one's feet is considered an insult. Feet, no matter how clean, are never placed on bed pillows. It is also considered rude to sit on top of a pillow designated for the head. Gesturing with the feet is also regarded as an insult. The Burmese are careful of which direction their feet point, and take pains not to point their feet towards Buddha’s image, elders, or religious sites. \n\nMany offices in Myanmar are shoes-free areas. Shoes are worn from the street into public hallways and foyers, but then removed at the door of the office. Hand shakes are common and standard, with both hands being used an acceptable practice. If a businesswoman initiates a handshake, it is acceptable for a male to shake it, but a male would not not initiate a handshake with a woman. If a handshake is not initiated by a woman, a male may instead make a small bow. \n\nIn an informal market setting haggling is acceptable, though not in shops.\n\nBurmese society operates on \"ana\" (), a characteristic or feeling that has no English equivalent. It is characterized by a hesitation, reluctance or avoidance, to perform an action based on the fear that it will offend someone or cause someone to lose face or become embarrassed. Also, there is the concept of \"hpon\" (; from Sanskrit \"bhaga\"), which translates to \"power\". It is used as an explanation for the varying degrees of ethnic, socioeconomic, and gender differences between people in a society.\n\"Hpon\" refers to the cumulative result of past deeds, an idea that power or social position comes from merit earned in previous lives. This idea is used to justify the prevalent view that women are lesser than men, who are considered to have more \"hpon\".\n\nChildren are taught from young 'to venerate one's elders, to respect one's peers, and to be kind to the young and weak' ( \"kyeethu go yothei, ywedu go layza, ngethu go thana\"). Young people would avoid sitting on a higher level than the elders or passing in front of them unless unavoidable, and then only treading softly with a slight bow. Things would be passed to the elders using both hands together. Men may cross their legs sitting on a chair or a mat but women generally would not.Parents are believed to be solely responsible for their children's behaviour as reflected by the expressions: \"mi ma hsonma, hpa ma hsonma\" ( undisciplined either by mother or by father) and \"ami youk tau hnoukkyan, ahpa youk tau ko amu-aya kyan\" (bad language from bad mother, bad body-language from bad father). Saying \"thank you\" however is not Burmese custom between friends and within the family.\n\nPhysical demonstrations of affection in public are common between friends of the same gender or between members of the family, but seldom seen between lovers. It is thus common to see friends walking together holding hands or with arms round each other, but couples rarely do so, except in major cities.\n\nIt is considered rude to touch a person's head, because it is the \"highest\" point of the body. It is also considered taboo to touch another's feet, but worse still to point with the foot or sit with feet pointing at someone older, because the feet are considered the lowest. Also, pointing a finger at Buddha images is considered blasphemous, although this custom has slowly eroded. \n"}
{"id": "39697327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39697327", "title": "Fabry gap theorem", "text": "Fabry gap theorem\n\nIn mathematics, the Fabry gap theorem is a result about the analytic continuation of complex power series whose non-zero terms are of orders that have a certain \"gap\" between them. Such a power series is \"badly behaved\" in the sense that it cannot be extended to be an analytic function anywhere on the boundary of its disc of convergence.\n\nThe theorem may be deduced from the first main theorem of Turán's method.\n\nLet 0 < \"p\" < \"p\" < ... be a sequence of integers such that the sequence \"p\"/\"n\" diverges to ∞. Let (\"α\") be a sequence of complex numbers such that the power series\n\nhas radius of convergence 1. Then the unit circle is a natural boundary for the series \"f\".\n\nA converse to the theorem was established by George Pólya. If lim inf \"p\"/\"n\" is finite then there exists a power series with exponent sequence \"p\", radius of convergence equal to 1, but for which the unit circle is not a natural boundary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "216361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216361", "title": "Food security", "text": "Food security\n\nFood security is a condition related to the availability of food, and individuals' accessibility and affordability to it. There is evidence of being in use over 10,000 years ago, with central authorities in civilizations ancient China and ancient Egypt being known to release food from storage in times of famine. At the 1974 World Food Conference the term \"food security\" was defined with an emphasis on supply. Food security, they said, is the \"availability at all times of adequate, nourishing, diverse, balanced and moderate world food supplies of basic foodstuffs to sustain a steady expansion of food consumption and to offset fluctuations in production and prices\". Later definitions added demand and access issues to the definition. The final report of the 1996 World Food Summit states that food security \"exists when all people, at all times, have physical and economic access to sufficient, safe and nutritious food to meet their dietary needs and food preferences for an active and healthy life\".\n\nHousehold food security exists when all members, at all times, have access to enough food for an active, healthy life. Individuals who are food secure do not live in hunger or fear of starvation. Food insecurity, on the other hand, is a situation of \"limited or uncertain availability of nutritionally adequate and safe foods or limited or uncertain ability to acquire acceptable foods in socially acceptable ways\", according to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). Food security incorporates a measure of resilience to future disruption or unavailability of critical food supply due to various risk factors including droughts, shipping disruptions, fuel shortages, economic instability, and wars. \nIn the years 2011–2013, an estimated 842 million people were suffering from chronic hunger. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, or FAO, identified the four pillars of food security as availability, access, utilization, and stability. The United Nations (UN) recognized the Right to Food in the Declaration of Human Rights in 1948, and has since noted that it is vital for the enjoyment of all other rights.\n\nThe 1996 World Summit on Food Security declared that \"food should not be used as an instrument for political and economic pressure\". According to the International Centre for Trade and Sustainable Development, failed agriculture market regulation and the lack of anti-dumping mechanisms cause much of the world's food scarcity and malnutrition.\n\nFood security can be measured by calorie intake per person per day, available on a household budget. In general the objective of food security indicators and measures is to capture some or all of the main components of food security in terms of food availability, access and utilization or adequacy. While availability (production and supply) and utilization/adequacy (nutritional status/anthropometric measures) seemed much easier to estimate, thus more popular, access (ability to acquire sufficient quantity and quality) remain largely elusive. The factors influencing household food access are often context specific.\n\nSeveral measures have been developed that aim to capture the access component of food security, with some notable examples developed by the USAID-funded Food and Nutrition Technical Assistance (FANTA) project, collaborating with Cornell and Tufts University and Africare and World Vision. These include:\n\n\nFood insecurity is measured in the United States by questions in the Census Bureau's Current Population Survey. The questions asked are about anxiety that the household budget is inadequate to buy enough food, inadequacy in the quantity or quality of food eaten by adults and children in the household, and instances of reduced food intake or consequences of reduced food intake for adults and for children. A National Academy of Sciences study commissioned by the USDA criticized this measurement and the relationship of \"food security\" to hunger, adding \"it is not clear whether hunger is appropriately identified as the extreme end of the food security scale.\"\n\nThe FAO, World Food Programme (WFP), and International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) collaborate to produce \"The State of Food Insecurity in the World\". The 2012 edition described improvements made by the FAO to the prevalence of undernourishment (PoU) indicator that is used to measure rates of food insecurity. New features include revised minimum dietary energy requirements for individual countries, updates to the world population data, and estimates of food losses in retail distribution for each country. Measurements that factor into the indicator include dietary energy supply, food production, food prices, food expenditures, and volatility of the food system. The stages of food insecurity range from food secure situations to full-scale famine.\nA new peer-reviewed journal, \"Food Security: The Science, Sociology and Economics of Food Production and Access to Food\", began publishing in 2009.\n\nWith its prevalence of undernourishment (PoU) indicator, the FAO reported that almost 870 million people were chronically undernourished in the years 2010–2012. This represents 12.5% of the global population, or 1 in 8 people. Higher rates occur in developing countries, where 852 million people (about 15% of the population) are chronically undernourished. The report noted that Asia and Latin America have achieved reductions in rates of undernourishment that put these regions on track for achieving the Millennium Development Goal of halving the prevalence of undernourishment by 2015. The UN noted that about 2 billion people do not consume a sufficient amount of vitamins and minerals. In India, the second-most populous country in the world, 30 million people have been added to the ranks of the hungry since the mid-1990s and 46% of children are underweight.\n\nFamines have been frequent in world history. Some have killed millions and substantially diminished the population of a large area. The most common causes have been drought and war, but the greatest famines in history were caused by economic policy.\n\nIn Afghanistan about 35% of households are food insecure. The prevalence of under-weight, stunting, and wasting in children under 5 years of age is also very high.\n\nFood insecurity has distressed Mexico throughout its history and continues to do so in the present. Food availability is not the issue; rather, severe deficiencies in the accessibility of food contributes to the insecurity. Between 2003 and 2005, the total Mexican food supply was well above the sufficient to meet the requirements of the Mexican population, averaging 3,270 kilocalories per daily capita, higher than the minimum requirements of 1,850 kilocalories per daily capita. However, at least 10 percent of the population in every Mexican state suffers from inadequate food access. In nine states, 25–35 percent live in food-insecure households. More than 10 percent of the populations of seven Mexica states fall into the category of Serious Food Insecurity.\n\nThe issue of food inaccessibility is magnified by chronic child malnutrition as well as obesity in children, adolescents, and family.\n\nMexico is vulnerable to drought which can further cripple agriculture.\n\nThe United States Department of Agriculture defines food insecurity as \"limited or uncertain availability of nutritionally adequate and safe foods or limited or uncertain ability to acquire acceptable foods in socially acceptable ways.\" Food security is defined by the USDA as \"access by all people at all times to enough food for an active, healthy life.\"\nNational Food Security Surveys are the main survey tool used by the USDA to measure food security in the United States. Based on respondents' answers to survey questions, the household can be placed on a continuum of food security defined by the USDA. This continuum has four categories: high food security, marginal food security, low food security, and very low food security. Economic Research Service report number 155 (ERS-155) estimates that 14.5 percent (17.6 million) of US households were food insecure at some point in 2012. The prevalence of food insecurity has been relatively in the United States since the economic recession 2008.\n\nIn 2016:\n\nThe Democratic Republic of Congo is the second largest country in Africa; the country is dealing with food insecurity. Although they have an abundance of natural resources, they lack accessibility of essential foods makes it difficult for the Congolese people in their daily lives. Malnutrition is high among children affects their ability, and children who live in a rural area are affected more than children who are live in an urban area.. In the Democratic Republic of Congo, about 33% of households is food insecure; it is 60% in eastern provinces.\n. A study showed the correlation of food insecurity negatively affecting at-risk HIV adults in the Democratic Republic of Congo.. \n\nIn 2007-2008 grain prices increased and the people in the Democratic Republic of the Congo went to civil unrest, there were riots and protest. Hunger is frequent in this country, but sometimes it is to the extreme that many families cannot afford to eat every day. . Bushmeat trade was used to measure the trend of food security. The trend signifies the amount of consumption in urban and rural areas. Urban areas mainly consume bushmeat because they cannot afford other types of meat. .\n\nIn 2010 the government of the United States began the Feed the Future Initiative. This initiative is expected to work on the basis of country-led priorities that call for consistent support by the governments, donor organizations, the private sector, and the civil society to accomplish its long-term goals.\nThe World Summit on Food Security, held in Rome in 1996, aimed to renew a global commitment to the fight against hunger. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) called the summit in response to widespread under-nutrition and growing concern about the capacity of agriculture to meet future food needs. The conference produced two key documents, the Rome Declaration on World Food Security and the World Food Summit Plan of Action.\n\nThe Rome Declaration called for the members of the United Nations to work to halve the number of chronically undernourished people on the Earth by the year 2015. The Plan of Action set a number of targets for government and non-governmental organizations for achieving food security, at the individual, household, national, regional and global levels.\n\nAnother World Summit on Food Security took place at the FAO's headquarters in Rome between November 16 and 18, 2009. The decision to convene the summit was taken by the Council of FAO in June 2009, at the proposal of FAO Director-General Dr Jacques Diouf. Heads of state and government attended this summit.\n\nThe WHO states that there are three pillars that determine food security: food availability, food access, and food use and misuse. The FAO adds a fourth pillar: the stability of the first three dimensions of food security over time. In 2009, the World Summit on Food Security stated that the \"four pillars of food security are availability, access, utilization, and stability\".\n\nFood availability relates to the supply of food through production, distribution, and exchange. Food production is determined by a variety of factors including land ownership and use; soil management; crop selection, breeding, and management; livestock breeding and management; and harvesting. Crop production can be affected by changes in rainfall and temperatures. The use of land, water, and energy to grow food often competes with other uses, which can affect food production. Land used for agriculture can be used for urbanization or lost to desertification, salinization, and soil erosion due to unsustainable agricultural practices. Crop production is not required for a country to achieve food security. Nations don't have to have the natural resources required to produce crops in order to achieve food security, as seen in the examples of Japan and Singapore.\n\nBecause food consumers outnumber producers in every country, food must be distributed to different regions or nations. \nFood distribution involves the storage, processing, transport, packaging, and marketing of food. Food-chain infrastructure and storage technologies on farms can also affect the amount of food wasted in the distribution process. Poor transport infrastructure can increase the price of supplying water and fertilizer as well as the price of moving food to national and global markets. Around the world, few individuals or households are continuously self-reliant for food. This creates the need for a bartering, exchange, or cash economy to acquire food. The exchange of food requires efficient trading systems and market institutions, which can affect food security. Per capita world food supplies are more than adequate to provide food security to all, and thus food accessibility is a greater barrier to achieving food security.\n\nFood access refers to the affordability and allocation of food, as well as the preferences of individuals and households. The UN Committee on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights noted that the causes of hunger and malnutrition are often not a scarcity of food but an inability to access available food, usually due to poverty. Poverty can limit access to food, and can also increase how vulnerable an individual or household is to food price spikes. Access depends on whether the household has enough income to purchase food at prevailing prices or has sufficient land and other resources to grow its own food. Households with enough resources can overcome unstable harvests and local food shortages and maintain their access to food.\n\nThere are two distinct types of access to food: direct access, in which a household produces food using human and material resources, and economic access, in which a household purchases food produced elsewhere. Location can affect access to food and which type of access a family will rely on. The assets of a household, including income, land, products of labor, inheritances, and gifts can determine a household's access to food. However, the ability to access sufficient food may not lead to the purchase of food over other materials and services. Demographics and education levels of members of the household as well as the gender of the household head determine the preferences of the household, which influences the type of food that are purchased. A household's access to enough and nutritious food may not assure adequate food intake of all household members, as intrahousehold food allocation may not sufficiently meet the requirements of each member of the household. The USDA adds that access to food must be available in socially acceptable ways, without, for example, resorting to emergency food supplies, scavenging, stealing, or other coping strategies.\n\nThe next pillar of food security is food utilization, which refers to the metabolism of food by individuals. Once food is obtained by a household, a variety of factors affect the quantity and quality of food that reaches members of the household. In order to achieve food security, the food ingested must be safe and must be enough to meet the physiological requirements of each individual. Food safety affects food utilization, and can be affected by the preparation, processing, and cooking of food in the community and household. Nutritional values of the household determine food choice, and whether food meets cultural preferences is important to utilization in terms of psychological and social well-being. Access to healthcare is another determinant of food utilization, since the health of individuals controls how the food is metabolized. For example, intestinal parasites can take nutrients from the body and decrease food utilization. Sanitation can also decrease the occurrence and spread of diseases that can affect food utilization. Education about nutrition and food preparation can affect food utilization and improve this pillar of food security.\n\nFood stability refers to the ability to obtain food over time. Food insecurity can be transitory, seasonal, or chronic. In transitory food insecurity, food may be unavailable during certain periods of time. At the food production level, natural disasters and drought result in crop failure and decreased food availability. Civil conflicts can also decrease access to food. Instability in markets resulting in food-price spikes can cause transitory food insecurity. Other factors that can temporarily cause food insecurity are loss of employment or productivity, which can be caused by illness. Seasonal food insecurity can result from the regular pattern of growing seasons in food production.\n\nChronic (or permanent) food insecurity is defined as the long-term, persistent lack of adequate food. In this case, households are constantly at risk of being unable to acquire food to meet the needs of all members. \nChronic and transitory food insecurity are linked, since the reoccurrence of transitory food security can make households more vulnerable to chronic food insecurity.\n\nFamine and hunger are both rooted in food insecurity. Chronic food insecurity translates into a high degree of vulnerability to famine and hunger; ensuring food security presupposes elimination of that vulnerability.\n\nMany countries experience ongoing food shortages and distribution problems. These result in chronic and often widespread hunger amongst significant numbers of people. Human populations can respond to chronic hunger and malnutrition by decreasing body size, known in medical terms as stunting or stunted growth. This process starts \"in utero\" if the mother is malnourished and continues through approximately the third year of life. It leads to higher infant and child mortality, but at rates far lower than during famines. Once stunting has occurred, improved nutritional intake after the age of about two years is unable to reverse the damage. Stunting itself can be viewed as a coping mechanism, bringing body size into alignment with the calories available during adulthood in the location where the child is born. Limiting body size as a way of adapting to low levels of energy (calories) adversely affects health in three ways:\n\nWater deficits, which are already spurring heavy grain imports in numerous smaller countries, may soon do the same in larger countries, such as China or India. The water tables are falling in scores of countries (including northern China, the US, and India) due to widespread overpumping using powerful diesel and electric pumps. Other countries affected include Pakistan, Afghanistan, and Iran. This will eventually lead to water scarcity and cutbacks in grain harvest. Even with the overpumping of its aquifers, China is developing a grain deficit. When this happens, it will almost certainly drive grain prices upward. Most of the 3 billion people projected to be born worldwide by mid-century will be born in countries already experiencing water shortages. After China and India, there is a second tier of smaller countries with large water deficits – Afghanistan, Algeria, Egypt, Iran, Mexico, and Pakistan. Four of these already import a large share of their grain. Only Pakistan remains self-sufficient. But with a population expanding by 4 million a year, it will likely soon turn to the world market for grain.\n\nRegionally, Sub-Saharan Africa has the largest number of water-stressed countries of any place on the globe, as of an estimated 800 million people who live in Africa, 300 million live in a water-stressed environment. It is estimated that by 2030, 75 million to 250 million people in Africa will be living in areas of high water stress, which will likely displace anywhere between 24 million and 700 million people as conditions become increasingly unlivable. Because the majority of Africa remains dependent on an agricultural lifestyle and 80 to 90 percent of all families in rural Africa rely upon producing their own food, water scarcity translates to a loss of food security.\n\nMultimillion-dollar investments beginning in the 1990s by the World Bank have reclaimed desert and turned the Ica Valley in Peru, one of the driest places on earth, into the largest supplier of asparagus in the world. However, the constant irrigation has caused a rapid drop in the water table, in some places as much as eight meters per year, one of the fastest rates of aquifer depletion in the world. The wells of small farmers and local people are beginning to run dry and the water supply for the main city in the valley is under threat. As a cash crop, asparagus has provided jobs for local people, but most of the money goes to the buyers, mainly the British. A 2010 report concluded that the industry is not sustainable and accuses investors, including the World Bank, of failing to take proper responsibility for the effect of their decisions on the water resources of poorer countries. Diverting water from the headwaters of the Ica River to asparagus fields has also led to a water shortage in the mountain region of Huancavelica, where indigenous communities make a marginal living herding.\n\nIntensive farming often leads to a vicious cycle of exhaustion of soil fertility and decline of agricultural yields. Approximately 40 percent of the world's agricultural land is seriously degraded. In Africa, if current trends of soil degradation continue, the continent might be able to feed just 25 percent of its population by 2025, according to UNU's Ghana-based Institute for Natural Resources in Africa.\n\nExtreme events, such as droughts and floods, are forecast to increase as climate change and global warming takes hold. Ranging from overnight floods to gradually worsening droughts, these will have a range of effects on the agricultural sector. According to the Climate & Development Knowledge Network report \"Managing Climate Extremes and Disasters in the Agriculture Sectors: Lessons from the IPCC SREX Report\", the effects will include changing productivity and livelihood patterns, economic losses, and effects on infrastructure, markets and food security. Food security in future will be linked to our ability to adapt agricultural systems to extreme events. An example of a shifting weather pattern would be a rise in temperatures. As temperatures rise due to climate change there is a risk of a diminished food supply due to heat damage.\n\nApproximately 2.4 billion people live in the drainage basin of the Himalayan rivers. India, China, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Nepal and Myanmar could experience floods followed by severe droughts in coming decades. In India alone, the Ganges provides water for drinking and farming for more than 500 million people. The west coast of North America, which gets much of its water from glaciers in mountain ranges such as the Rocky Mountains and Sierra Nevada, also would be affected. Glaciers aren't the only worry that the developing nations have; sea level is reported to rise as climate change progresses, reducing the amount of land available for agriculture.\n\nIn other parts of the world, a big effect will be low yields of grain according to the World Food Trade Model, specifically in the low latitude regions where much of the developing world is located. From this the price of grain will rise, along with the developing nations trying to grow the grain. Due to this, every 2–2.5% price hike will increase the number of hungry people by 1%. Low crop yields are just one of the problem facing farmers in the low latitudes and tropical regions. The timing and length of the growing seasons, when farmers plant their crops, are going to be changing dramatically, per the USDA, due to unknown changes in soil temperature and moisture conditions.\n\nAnother way of thinking about food security and climate change comes from Evan Fraser, a geographer working at the University of Guelph in Ontario Canada. His approach is to explore the vulnerability of food systems to climate change and he defines vulnerability to climate change as situations that occur when relatively minor environmental problems cause major effects on food security. Examples of this include the Irish Potato Famine, which was caused by a rainy year that created ideal conditions for the fungal blight to spread in potato fields, or the Ethiopian Famine in the early 1980s. Three factors stand out as common in such cases, and these three factors act as a diagnostic \"tool kit\" through which to identify cases where food security may be vulnerable to climate change. These factors are: (1) specialized agro-ecosystems; (2) households with very few livelihood options other than farming; (3) situations where formal institutions do not provide adequate safety nets to protect people. \"The International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) estimates that an additional US$ 7.1–7.3 billion per year are needed in agricultural investments to offset the negative effect of climate change on nutrition for children by 2050 (Table 6).\"\n\n“Results show that climate change is likely to reduce agricultural production, thus reducing food availability” (Brown etal., 2008.) “The food security threat posed by climate change is greatest for Africa, where agricultural yields and per capita food production has been steadily declining, and where population growth will double the demand for food, water, and livestock forage in the next 30 years” (Devereux et al., 2004).In 2060, the hungry population could range from 641 million to 2087 million with climate change (Chen et al., 1994). By the year 2030, Cereal crops will decrease from 15 to 19 percent, temperatures are estimated to rise from 1 degrees Celsius to 2. 75 degrees Celsius, which will lead to less rainfall, which will all result in an increase in food insecurity in 2030 (Devereux etal, 2004). In prediction farming countries will be the worst sectors hit, hot countries and drought countries will reach even higher temperatures and richer countries will be hit the least as they have more access to more resources (Devereux et al. 2004). From a food security perspective, climate change is the dominant rationale to the increase in recent years and predicted years to come.\n\nDiseases affecting livestock or crops can have devastating effects on food availability especially if there are no contingency plans in place.\nFor example, Ug99, a lineage of wheat stem rust which can cause up to 100% crop losses, is present in wheat fields in several countries in Africa and the Middle East and is predicted to spread rapidly through these regions and possibly further afield, potentially causing a wheat production disaster that would affect food security worldwide.\n\nThe genetic diversity of the crop wild relatives of wheat can be used to improve modern varieties to be more resistant to rust. In their centers of origin wild wheat plants are screened for resistance to rust, then their genetic information is studied and finally wild plants and modern varieties are crossed through means of modern plant breeding in order to transfer the resistance genes from the wild plants to the modern varieties.\n\nFarmland and other agricultural resources have long been used to produce non-food crops including industrial materials such as cotton, flax, and rubber; drug crops such as tobacco and opium, and biofuels such as firewood, etc. In the 21st century the production of fuel crops has increased, adding to this diversion. However technologies are also developed to commercially produce food from energy such as natural gas and electrical energy with tiny water and land foot print.\n\nNobel Prize winning economist Amartya Sen observed that \"there is no such thing as an apolitical food problem.\" While drought and other naturally occurring events may trigger famine conditions, it is government action or inaction that determines its severity, and often even whether or not a famine will occur. The 20th century has examples of governments, as in Collectivization in the Soviet Union or the Great Leap Forward in the People's Republic of China undermining the food security of their own nations. Mass starvation is frequently a weapon of war, as in the blockade of Germany, the Battle of the Atlantic, and the blockade of Japan during World War I and World War II and in the Hunger Plan enacted by Nazi Germany.\n\nGovernments sometimes have a narrow base of support, built upon cronyism and patronage. Fred Cuny pointed out in 1999 that under these conditions: \"The distribution of food within a country is a political issue. Governments in most countries give priority to urban areas, since that is where the most influential and powerful families and enterprises are usually located. The government often neglects subsistence farmers and rural areas in general. The more remote and underdeveloped the area the less likely the government will be to effectively meet its needs. Many agrarian policies, especially the pricing of agricultural commodities, discriminate against rural areas. Governments often keep prices of basic grains at such artificially low levels that subsistence producers cannot accumulate enough capital to make investments to improve their production. Thus, they are effectively prevented from getting out of their precarious situation.\"\n\nDictators and warlords have used food as a political weapon, rewarding supporters while denying food supplies to areas that oppose their rule. Under such conditions food becomes a currency with which to buy support and famine becomes an effective weapon against opposition.\n\nGovernments with strong tendencies towards kleptocracy can undermine food security even when harvests are good. When government monopolizes trade, farmers may find that they are free to grow cash crops for export, but under penalty of law only able to sell their crops to government buyers at prices far below the world market price. The government then is free to sell their crop on the world market at full price, pocketing the difference.\n\nWhen the rule of law is absent, or private property is non-existent, farmers have little incentive to improve their productivity. If a farm becomes noticeably more productive than neighboring farms, it may become the target of individuals well connected to the government. Rather than risk being noticed and possibly losing their land, farmers may be content with the perceived safety of mediocrity.\n\nAs pointed out by William Bernstein in \"The Birth of Plenty\": \"Individuals without property are susceptible to starvation, and it is much easier to bend the fearful and hungry to the will of the state. If a [farmer's] property can be arbitrarily threatened by the state, that power will inevitably be employed to intimidate those with divergent political and religious opinions.\"\n\nThe approach known as food sovereignty views the business practices of multinational corporations as a form of neocolonialism. It contends that multinational corporations have the financial resources available to buy up the agricultural resources of impoverished nations, particularly in the tropics. They also have the political clout to convert these resources to the exclusive production of cash crops for sale to industrialized nations outside of the tropics, and in the process to squeeze the poor off of the more productive lands. Under this view subsistence farmers are left to cultivate only lands that are so marginal in terms of productivity as to be of no interest to the multinational corporations. Likewise, food sovereignty holds it to be true that communities should be able to define their own means of production and that food is a basic human right. With several multinational corporations now pushing agricultural technologies on developing countries, technologies that include improved seeds, chemical fertilizers, and pesticides, crop production has become an increasingly analyzed and debated issue. Many communities calling for food sovereignty are protesting the imposition of Western technologies on to their indigenous systems and agency.\n\nCurrent UN projections show a continued increase in population in the future (but a steady decline in the population growth rate), with the global population expected to reach 9.8 billion in 2050 and 11.2 billion by 2100. Estimates by the UN Population Division for the year 2150 range between 3.2 and 24.8 billion; mathematical modeling supports the lower estimate. Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth, highlighting the growing pressures on the environment, global food supplies, and energy resources. Solutions for feeding the extra billions in the future are being studied and documented. One out of every seven people on our planet go to sleep hungry. People are suffering due to overpopulation, 25,000 people die of malnutrition and hunger related diseases everyday.\n\nWhile agricultural output has increased, energy consumption to produce a crop has also increased at a greater rate, so that the ratio of crops produced to energy input has decreased over time. Green Revolution techniques also heavily rely on chemical fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides, many of which are petroleum products, making agriculture increasingly reliant on petroleum.\n\nBetween 1950 and 1984, as the Green Revolution transformed agriculture around the globe, world grain production increased by 250%. The energy for the Green Revolution was provided by fossil fuels in the form of fertilizers (natural gas), pesticides (oil), and hydrocarbon fueled irrigation.\n\nDavid Pimentel, professor of ecology and agriculture at Cornell University, and Mario Giampietro, senior researcher at the National Research Institute on Food and Nutrition (NRIFN), place in their study \"Food, Land, Population and the U.S. Economy\" the maximum U.S. population for a sustainable economy at 210 million. To achieve a sustainable economy and avert disaster, the United States must reduce its population by at least one-third, and world population will have to be reduced by two-thirds, says the study.\n\nThe authors of this study believe that the mentioned agricultural crisis will only begin to affect us after 2020, and will not become critical until 2050. The oncoming peaking of global oil production (and subsequent decline of production), along with the peak of North American natural gas production will very likely precipitate this agricultural crisis much sooner than expected. Geologist Dale Allen Pfeiffer claims that coming decades could see spiraling food prices without relief and massive starvation on a global level such as never experienced before.\n\nSince 1961, human diets across the world have become more diverse in the consumption of major commodity staple crops, with a corollary decline in consumption of local or regionally important crops, and thus have become more homogeneous globally. The differences between the foods eaten in different countries were reduced by 68% between 1961 and 2009. The modern \"global standard\" diet contains an increasingly large percentage of a relatively small number of major staple commodity crops, which have increased substantially in the share of the total food energy (calories), protein, fat, and food weight that they provide to the world's human population, including wheat, rice, sugar, maize, soybean (by +284%), palm oil (by +173%), and sunflower (by +246%). Whereas nations used to consume greater proportions of locally or regionally important crops, wheat has become a staple in over 97% of countries, with the other global staples showing similar dominance worldwide. Other crops have declined sharply over the same period, including rye, yam, sweet potato (by −45%), cassava (by −38%), coconut, sorghum (by −52%) and millets (by −45%). Such crop diversity change in the human diet is associated with mixed effects on food security, improving under-nutrition in some regions but contributing to the diet-related diseases caused by over-consumption of macronutrients.\n\nOn April 30, 2008, Thailand, one of the world's biggest rice exporters, announced the creation of the Organisation of Rice Exporting Countries with the potential to develop into a price-fixing cartel for rice. It is a project to organize 21 rice exporting countries to create a homonymous organisation to control the price of rice. The group is mainly made up of Thailand, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos and Myanmar. The organization attempts to serve the purpose of making a \"contribution to ensuring food stability, not just in an individual country but also to address food shortages in the region and the world\". However, it is still questionable whether this organization will serve its role as an effective rice price fixing cartel, that is similar to OPEC's mechanism for managing petroleum. Economic analysts and traders said the proposal would go nowhere because of the inability of governments to cooperate with each other and control farmers' output. Moreover, countries that are involved expressed their concern, that this could only worsen the food security.\n\nChina needs not less than 120 million hectares of arable land for its food security. China has recently reported a surplus of 15 million hectares. On the other side of the coin, some 4 million hectares of conversion to urban use and 3 million hectares of contaminated land have been reported as well. Furthermore, a survey found that 2.5% of China's arable land is too contaminated to grow food without harm.\nIn Europe, the conversion of agricultural soil implied a net loss of potential. But the rapid loss in the area of arable soils appears to be economically meaningless because EU is perceived to be dependent on internal food supply anymore. During the period 2000–2006 the European Union lost 0.27% of its cropland and 0.26% of its crop productive potential. The loss of agricultural land during the same time was the highest in the Netherlands, which lost 1.57% of its crop production potential within six years. The figures are quite alarming for Cyprus (0.84%), Ireland (0.77%) and Spain (0.49%) as well.\nIn Italy, in the Emilia-Romagna plain (ERP), the conversion of 15,000 hectare of agricultural soil (period 2003-2008) implied a net loss of 109,000 Mg per year of wheat, which accounts for the calories needed by 14% of ERP population (425,000 people). Such a loss in wheat production is just 0.02% of gross domestic product (GDP) of the Emilia-Romagna region which is actually a minor effect in financial terms. Additionally, the income from the new land use is often much higher than the one guaranteed by agriculture, as in the case of urbanisation or extraction of raw materials.\n\nAs anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions reduce the stability of the global climate, abrupt climate change could become more intense. The impact of an asteroid or comet larger than about 1 km diameter has the potential to block the sun globally, causing impact winter. Particles in the troposphere would quickly rain out, but particles in the stratosphere, especially sulfate, could remain there for years. Similarly, a supervolcanic eruption would reduce the potential of agricultural production from solar photosynthesis, causing volcanic winter. The Toba super volcanic eruption approximately 70,000 years ago may have nearly caused the extinction of humans (see Toba catastrophe theory). Again, primarily sulfate particles could block the sun for years. Solar blocking is not limited to natural causes as nuclear winter is also possible, which refers to the scenario involving widespread nuclear war and burning of cities that release soot into the stratosphere that would stay there for about 10 years. The high stratospheric temperatures produced by soot absorbing solar radiation would create near-global ozone hole conditions even for a regional nuclear conflict.\n\nAgricultural subsidies are paid to farmers and agribusinesses to supplement their income, manage the supply of their commodities and influence the cost and supply of those commodities. In the United States, the main crops the government subsidizes contribute to the obesity problem; since 1995, $300 billion have gone to crops that are used to create junk food.\n\nTaxpayers heavily subsidize corn and soy, which are main ingredients in processed foods and fatty foods which the government does not encourage, and used to fatten livestock. Half of farmland is devoted to corn and soy, the rest is wheat. Soy and corn can be found in sweeteners like high fructose corn syrup. Over $19 billion during the prior 18 years to 2013 was spent to incent farmers to grow these crops, raising the price of fruits and vegetables by about 40% and lowering the price of dairy and other animal products. Little land is used for fruit and vegetable farming.\n\nCorn, a pillar of American agriculture for years, is now mainly used for ethanol, high fructose corn syrup and bio-based plastics. About 40 percent of corn is used for ethanol and 36% is used as animal feed. Only a tiny fraction of corn is used as a food source, much of that fraction is used for high-fructose corn syrup, which is a main ingredient in processed, unhealthy junk food.\n\nPeople who ate the most subsidized food had a 37% higher risk of being obese compared to people who ate the least amount of subsidized food. This brings up the concern that minority communities are more prone to risks of obesity due to financial limitations. The subsidies result in those commodities being cheap to the public, compared to those recommended by dietary guidelines.\n\nPresident Trump proposed a 21% cut to government discretionary spending in the agriculture sector, which has met partisan resistance. This budget proposal would also reduce spending on the Special Supplement Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children, albeit less than President Obama did.\nOn April 29, 2008, a UNICEF UK report found that the world's poorest and most vulnerable children are being hit the hardest by climate change. The report, \"Our Climate, Our Children, Our Responsibility: The Implications of Climate Change for the World's Children\", says that access to clean water and food supplies will become more difficult, particularly in Africa and Asia.\n\nBy way of comparison, in one of the largest food producing countries in the world, the United States, approximately one out of six people are \"food insecure\", including 17 million children, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. A 2012 study in the \"Journal of Applied Research on Children\" found that rates of food security varied significantly by race, class and education. In both kindergarten and third grade, 8% of the children were classified as food insecure, but only 5% of white children were food insecure, while 12% and 15% of black and Hispanic children were food insecure, respectively. In third grade, 13% of black and 11% of Hispanic children are food insecure compared to 5% of white children.\n\nThere are also striking regional variations in food security. Although food insecurity can be difficult to measure, 45% of elementary and secondary students in Maine qualify for free or reduced-price school lunch; by some measures Maine has been declared the most food-insecure of the New England states. Transportation challenges and distance are common barriers to families in rural areas who seek food assistance. Social stigma is another important consideration, and for children, sensitively administering in-school programs can make the difference between success and failure. For instance, when John Woods, co-founder of Full Plates, Full Potential, learned that embarrassed students were shying away from the free breakfasts being distributed at a school he was working with, he made arrangements to provide breakfast free of charge to all of the students there.\n\nAccording to a 2015 Congressional Budget Office report on child nutrition programs, it is more likely that food insecure children will participate in school nutrition programs than children from food secure families. School nutrition programs, such as the National School Lunch Program (NSLP) and the School Breakfast Program (SBP) have provided millions of children access to healthier lunch and breakfast meals, since their inceptions in the mid-1900s. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, NSLP has served over 300 million, while SBP has served about 10 million students each day. Nevertheless, far too many qualifying students still fail to receive these benefits simply due to not submitting the necessary paperwork. Multiple studies have reported that school nutrition programs play an important role in ensuring students are accessing healthy meals. Students who ate school lunches provided by NLSP showed higher diet quality than if they had their own lunches. Even more, the USDA improved standards for school meals, which ultimately lead to positive impacts on children’s food selection and eating habits.\n\nCountless partnerships have emerged in the quest for food security. A number of federal nutrition programs exist to provide food specifically for children, including the Summer Food Service Program, Special Milk Program (SMP) and Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP), and community and state organizations often network with these programs. The Summer Food Program in Bangor, Maine, is run by the Bangor Housing Authority and sponsored by Good Shepherd Food Bank. In turn, Waterville Maine's Thomas College, for example, is among the organizations holding food drives to collect donations for Good Shepherd. Children whose families qualify for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) or Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) may also receive food assistance. WIC alone served approximately 7.6 million participants, 75% of which are children and infants.\n\nDespite the sizable populations served by these programs, Conservatives have regularly targeted these programs for defunding. Conservatives' arguments against school nutrition programs include fear of wasting food and fraud from applications. On January 23, 2017, H.R.610 was introduced to the House by Republican Representative Steve King. The bill seeks to repeal a rule set by the Food and Nutrition Service of the Department of Agriculture, which mandates schools to provide more nutritious and diverse foods across the food plate. Two months later, the Trump administration released a preliminary 2018 budget that proposed a $2 billion cut from WIC.\n\nFood insecurity in children can lead to developmental impairments and long term consequences such as weakened physical, intellectual and emotional development.\n\nFood insecurity also related to obesity for people living in neighborhoods where nutritious food are unavailable or unaffordable.\n\nGender inequality both leads to and is a result of food insecurity. According to estimates women and girls make up 60% of the world's chronically hungry and little progress has been made in ensuring the equal right to food for women enshrined in the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. Women face discrimination both in education and employment opportunities and within the household, where their bargaining power is lower. Women’s employment is essential for not only advancing gender equality within the workforce, but ensuring a sustainable future as it means less pressure for high birth rates and net migration. On the other hand, gender equality is described as instrumental to ending malnutrition and hunger. Women tend to be responsible for food preparation and childcare within the family and are more likely to spend their income on food and their children's needs. Women also play an important role in food production, processing, distribution and marketing. They often work as unpaid family workers, are involved in subsistence farming and represent about 43% of the agricultural labor force in developing countries, varying from 20% in Latin America to 50% in Eastern and Southeastern Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa. However, women face discrimination in access to land, credit, technologies, finance and other services. Empirical studies suggest that if women had the same access to productive resources as men, women could boost their yields by 20–30%; raising the overall agricultural output in developing countries by 2.5 to 4%. While those are rough estimates, the significant benefit of closing the gender gap on agricultural productivity cannot be denied. The gendered aspects of food security are visible along the four pillars of food security: availability, access, utilization and stability, as defined by the Food and Agriculture Organization.\n\nThe number of people affected by hunger is extremely high, with enormous effects on women and girls. Making this trend disappear \"must be a top priority for governments and international institutions\". Actions governments take must take into consideration that food insecurity is an issue regarding \"equality, rights and social justice\".\n\"Food and nutrition insecurity is a political and economic phenomenon fuelled by inequitable global and national processes\". Factors like capitalism, exploration of Indigenous lands all contribute to food insecurity for minorities and the people who are the most oppressed in various countries (women being one of these oppressed groups). To emphasis, \"food and nutrition insecurity is a gender justice issue\". The facts that women and girls are the most oppressed by \"the inequitable global economic processes that govern food systems and by global trends such as climate change\", shows how institutions continue to place women in positions of disadvantage and impoverishment to make money and thrive on capitalizing the food system. When the government withholds food by raising its prices to amounts only privileged people can afford, they both benefit and are able to control the \"lower-class\"/ marginalized people via the food market. \nAn interesting fact is that \"despite rapid economic growth in India, thousands of women and girls still lack food and nutrition security as a direct result of their lower status compared with men and boys\". \"Such inequalities are compounded by women and girls' often limited access to productive resources, education and decision-making, by the 'normalised' burden of unpaid work – including care work – and by the endemic problems of gender-based violence (GBV), HIV and AIDS\".\n\nOne of the most up-and-coming techniques to ensuring global food security is the use of genetically modified (GM) crops. The genome of these crops can be altered to address one or more aspects of the plant that may be preventing it from being grown in various regions under certain conditions. Many of these alterations can address the challenges that were previously mentioned above, including the water crisis, land degradation, and the ever-changing climate.\n\nIn agriculture and animal husbandry, the Green Revolution popularized the use of conventional hybridization to increase yield by creating \"high-yielding varieties\". Often the handful of hybridized breeds originated in developed countries and were further hybridized with local varieties in the rest of the developing world to create high yield strains resistant to local climate and diseases.\n\nThe area sown to genetically engineered crops in developing countries is rapidly catching up with the area sown in industrial nations. According to the International Service for the Acquisition of Agri-biotech Applications (ISAAA), GM crops were grown by approximately 8.5 million farmers in 21 countries in 2005; up from 8.25 million farmers in 17 countries in 2004. However, the ISAAA is funded by organisations including prominent agricultural biotechnology corporations, such as Monsanto and Bayer, and there have been several challenges made to the accuracy of ISAAA's global figures.\n\nSome scientists question the safety of biotechnology as a panacea; agroecologists Miguel Altieri and Peter Rosset have enumerated ten reasons why biotechnology will not ensure food security, protect the environment, or reduce poverty. Reasons include:\n\nBased on evidence from previous attempts, there is a likely lack of transferability of one type of GM crop from one region to another. For example, modified crops that have proven successful in Asia from the Green Revolution have failed when tried in regions of Africa. More research must be done regarding the specific requirements of growing a specific crop in a specific region.\n\nThere is also a drastic lack of education given to governments, farmers, and the community about the science behind GM crops, as well as suitable growing practices. In most relief programs, farmers are given seeds with little explanation and little attention is paid to the resources available to them or even laws that prohibit them from distributing produce. Governments are often not advised on the economic and health implications that come with growing GM crops, and are then left to make judgments on their own. Because they have so little information regarding these crops, they usually shy away from allowing them or do not take the time and effort required to regulate their use. Members of the community that will then consume the produce from these crops are also left in the dark about what these modifications mean and are often scared off by their 'unnatural' origins. This has resulted in failure to properly grow crops as well as strong opposition to the unknown practices.\n\nA study published in June 2016 evaluated the status of the implementation of Golden Rice, which was first developed in the 1990s to produce higher levels of Vitamin A than its non-GMO counterparts. This strain of rice was designed so that malnourished women and children in third world countries who were more susceptible to deficiencies could easily improve their Vitamin A intake levels and prevent blindness, which is a common result. Golden Rice production was centralized to the Philippines, yet there have been many hurdles to jump in order to get production moving. The study showed that the project is far behind schedule and is not living up to its expectations. Although research on Golden Rice still continues, the country has moved forward with other non-GMO initiatives to address the Vitamin A deficiency problem which is so prevasive in that region.\n\nMany anti-GMO activists argue that the use of GM crops decreases biodiversity amongst plants. Livestock biodiversity is also threatened by the modernization of agriculture and the focus on more productive major breeds. Therefore, efforts have been made by governments and non-governmental organizations to conserve livestock biodiversity through strategies such as Cryoconservation of animal genetic resources.\n\nMany GM crop success stories exist, primarily in developed nations like the USA, China, and various countries in Europe. Common GM crops include cotton, maize, and soybeans, all of which are grown throughout North and South America as well as regions of Asia. Modified cotton crops, for example, have been altered such that they are resistant to pests, can grown in more extreme heat, cold, or drought, and produce longer, stronger fibers to be used in textile production.\n\nOne of the biggest threats to rice, which is a staple food crop especially in India and other countries within Asia, is blast disease which is a fungal infection that causes lesions to form on all parts of the plant. A genetically engineered strain of rice has been developed so that it is resistant to blast, greatly improving the crop yield of farmers and allowing rice to be more accessible to everyone. Some other crops have been modified such that they produce higher yields per plant or that they require less land for growing. The latter can be helpful in extreme climates with little arable land and also decreases deforestation, as fewer trees need to be cut down in order to make room for crop fields. Others yet have been altered such that they do not require the use of insecticides or fungicides. This addresses various health concerns associated with such pesticides and can also work to improve biodiversity within the area in which these crops are grown.\n\nIn a review of Borlaug's 2000 publication entitled \"Ending world hunger: the promise of biotechnology and the threat of antiscience zealotry\", the authors argued that Borlaug's warnings were still true in 2010,Research conducted by the GMO Risk Assessment and Communication of Evidence (GRACE) program through the EU between 2007 and 2013 focused on many uses of GM crops and evaluated many facets of their effects on human, animal, and environmental health.\n\nThe body of scientific evidence concluding that GM foods are safe to eat and do not pose environmental risks is wide. Findings from the International Council of Scientists (2003) that analyzed a selection of approximately 50 science-based reviews concluded that “currently available genetically modified foods are safe to eat,” and “there is no evidence of any deleterious environmental effects having occurred from the trait/species combinations currently available.” The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) supported the same consensus a year later in addition to recommending the extension of biotechnology to the developing world. Similarly, the Royal Society (2003) and British Medical Association (2004) found no adverse health effects of consuming genetically modified foods. These findings supported the conclusions of earlier studies by the European Union Research Directorate, a compendium of 81 scientific studies conducted by more than 400 research teams did not show “any new risks to human health or the environment, beyond the usual uncertainties of conventional plant breeding.” Likewise, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Europe (OECD) and the Nuffield Council on Bioethics (1999) did not find that genetically modified foods posed a health risk.\n\nThe UN Millennium Development Goals are one of the initiatives aimed at achieving food security in the world. The first Millennium Development Goal states that the UN \"is to eradicate extreme hunger and poverty\" by 2015. Olivier De Schutter, the UN Special Rapporteur on the Right to Food, advocates for a multidimensional approach to food security challenges. This approach emphasizes the physical availability of food; the social, economic and physical access people have to food; and the nutrition, safety and cultural appropriateness or adequacy of food.\n\nThe Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations stated in \"The State of Food Insecurity in the World 2003\" that countries that have reduced hunger often had rapid economic growth, specifically in their agricultural sectors. These countries were also characterized as having slower population growth, lower HIV rates, and higher rankings in the Human Development Index. At that time, the FAO considered addressing agriculture and population growth vital to achieving food security. In \"The State of Food Insecurity in the World 2012\", the FAO restated its focus on economic growth and agricultural growth to achieve food security and added a focus on the poor and on \"nutrition-sensitive\" growth. For example, economic growth should be used by governments to provide public services to benefit poor and hungry populations. The FAO also cited smallholders, including women, as groups that should be involved in agricultural growth to generate employment for the poor. For economic and agricultural growth to be \"nutrition-sensitive\", resources should be utilized to improve access to diverse diets for the poor as well as access to a safe water supply and to healthcare.\nThe FAO has proposed a \"twin track\" approach to fight food insecurity that combines sustainable development and short-term hunger relief. Development approaches include investing in rural markets and rural infrastructure. In general, the FAO proposes the use of public policies and programs that promote long-term economic growth that will benefit the poor. To obtain short-term food security, vouchers for seeds, fertilizer, or access to services could promote agricultural production. The use of conditional or unconditional food or cash transfers was another approach the FAO noted. Conditional transfers could include school feeding programs, while unconditional transfers could include general food distribution, emergency food aid or cash transfers. A third approach is the use of subsidies as safety nets to increase the purchasing power of households. The FAO stated that \"approaches should be human rights-based, target the poor, promote gender equality, enhance long-term resilience and allow sustainable graduation out of poverty.\"\n\nThe FAO noted that some countries have been successful in fighting food insecurity and decreasing the number of people suffering from undernourishment. Bangladesh is an example of a country that has met the Millennium Development Goal hunger target. The FAO credited growth in agricultural productivity and macroeconomic stability for the rapid economic growth in the 1990s that resulted in an increase in food security. Irrigation systems were established through infrastructure development programs. Two programs, HarvestPlus and the Golden Rice Project, provided biofortified crops in order to decrease micronutrient deficiencess.\n\nWorld Food Day was established on October 16, in honor of the date that the FAO was founded in 1945. On this day, the FAO hosts a variety of event at the headquarters in Rome and around the world, as well as seminars with UN officials.\n\nThe World Food Programme (WFP) is an agency of the United Nations that uses food aid to promote food security and eradicate hunger and poverty. In particular, the WFP provides food aid to refugees and to others experiencing food emergencies. It also seeks to improve nutrition and quality of life to the most vulnerable populations and promote self-reliance. An example of a WFP program is the \"Food For Assets\" program in which participants work on new infrastructure, or learn new skills, that will increase food security, in exchange for food. The WFP and the Government of Kenya have partnered in the Food For Assets program in hopes of increasing the resilience of communities to shocks.\n\nIn April 2012, the Food Assistance Convention was signed, the world's first legally binding international agreement on food aid. The May 2012 Copenhagen Consensus recommended that efforts to combat hunger and malnutrition should be the first priority for politicians and private sector philanthropists looking to maximize the effectiveness of aid spending. They put this ahead of other priorities, like the fight against malaria and AIDS.\n\nThe main global policy to reduce hunger and poverty are the recently approved Sustainable Development Goals. In particular Goal 2: Zero Hunger sets globally agreed targets to end hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture by 2030. A number of organizations have formed initiatives with the more ambitious goal to achieve this outcome in only 10 years, by 2025:\n\n\nThe United States Agency for International Development (USAID) proposes several key steps to increasing agricultural productivity which is in turn key to increasing rural income and reducing food insecurity. They include:\n\nSince the 1960s, the U.S. has been implementing a food stamp program (now called the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program) to directly target consumers who lack the income to purchase food. According to Tim Josling, a Senior Fellow at the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies, Stanford University, food stamps or other methods of distribution of purchasing power directly to consumers might fit into the range of international programs under consideration to tackle food insecurity.\n\nThere are strong, direct relationships between agricultural productivity, hunger, poverty, and sustainability. Three-quarters of the world's poor live in rural areas and make their living from agriculture. Hunger and child malnutrition are greater in these areas than in urban areas. Moreover, the higher the proportion of the rural population that obtains its income solely from subsistence farming (without the benefit of pro-poor technologies and access to markets), the higher the incidence of malnutrition. Therefore, improvements in agricultural productivity aimed at small-scale farmers will benefit the rural poor first. Food and feed crop demand is likely to double in the next 50 years, as the global population approaches nine billion. Growing sufficient food will require people to make changes such as increasing productivity in areas dependent on rainfed agriculture; improving soil fertility management; expanding cropped areas; investing in irrigation; conducting agricultural trade between countries; and reducing gross food demand by influencing diets and reducing post-harvest losses.\n\nAccording to the Comprehensive Assessment of Water Management in Agriculture, a major study led by the International Water Management Institute (IWMI), managing rainwater and soil moisture more effectively, and using supplemental and small-scale irrigation, hold the key to helping the greatest number of poor people. It has called for a new era of water investments and policies for upgrading rainfed agriculture that would go beyond controlling field-level soil and water to bring new freshwater sources through better local management of rainfall and runoff. Increased agricultural productivity enables farmers to grow more food, which translates into better diets and, under market conditions that offer a level playing field, into higher farm incomes. With more money, farmers are more likely to diversify production and grow higher-value crops, benefiting not only themselves but the economy as a whole.\"\n\nResearchers suggest forming an alliance between the emergency food program and community-supported agriculture, as some countries' food stamps cannot be used at farmer's markets and places where food is less processed and grown locally.\nThe gathering of wild food plants appears to be an efficient alternative method of subsistence in tropical countries, which may play a role in poverty alleviation.\n\nThe minimum annual global wheat storage is approximately two months. To counteract the severe food security issues caused by global catastrophic risks, years of food storage has been proposed. Though this could ameliorate smaller scale problems like regional conflict and drought, it would exacerbate current food insecurity by raising food prices.\n\nInsurance is a financial instrument, which allows exposed individuals to pool resources to spread their risk. They do so by contributing premium to an insurance fund, which will indemnify those who suffer insured loss. This procedure reduces the risk for an individual by spreading his/her risk among the multiple fund contributors. Insurance can be designed to protect many types of individuals and assets against single or multiple perils and buffer insured parties against sudden and dramatic income or asset loss.\n\nCrop insurance is purchased by agricultural producers to protect themselves against either the loss of their crops due to natural disasters. Two type of insurances are available: (1) claim-based insurances, and (2) index-based insurances. In particular in poor countries facing food security problems, index-based insurances offer some interesting advantages: (1) indices can be derived from globally available satellite images that correlate well with what is insured; (2) these indices can be delivered at low cost; and (3) the insurance products open up new markets that are not served by claim-based insurances.\n\nAn advantage of index-based insurance is that it can potentially be delivered at lower cost. A significant barrier that hinders uptake of claim-based insurance is the high transaction cost for searching for prospective policyholders, negotiating and administering contracts, verifying losses and determining payouts. Index insurance eliminates the loss verification step, thereby mitigating a significant transaction cost. A second advantage of index-based insurance is that, because it pays an indemnity based on the reading of an index rather than individual losses, it eliminates much of the fraud, moral hazard and adverse selection, which are common in classical claim-based insurance. A further advantage of index insurance is that payments based on a standardized and indisputable index also allow for a fast indemnity payment. The indemnity payment could be automated, further reducing transaction costs.\n\nBasis risk is a major disadvantage of index-based insurance. It is the situation where an individual experiences a loss without receiving payment or vice versa. Basis risk is a direct result of the strength of the relation between the index that estimates the average loss by the insured group and the loss of insured assets by an individual. The weaker this relation the higher the basis risk. High basis risk undermines the willingness of potential clients to purchase insurance. It thus challenges insurance companies to design insurances such as to minimize basis risk.\n\nThe Food Justice Movement has been seen as a unique and multifaceted movement with relevance to the issue of food security. It has been described as a movement about social-economic and political problems in connection to environmental justice, improved nutrition and health, and activism. Today, a growing number of individuals and minority groups are embracing the Food Justice due to the perceived increase in hunger within nations such as the United States as well as the amplified effect of food insecurity on many minority communities, particularly the Black and Latino communities. A number of organizations have either championed the Food Justice Cause or greatly impacted the Food Justice space. An example of a prominent organization within the food justice movement has been the Coalition of Immokalee Workers, which is a worker-based human rights organization that has been recognized globally for its accomplishments in the areas of human trafficking, social responsibility and gender-based violence at work. The Coalition of Immoaklee Workers most prominent accomplishment related to the food justice space has been its part in implementing the Fair Food Program which increased the pay and bettered working conditions of farm workers in the tomato industry who had been exploited for generations. This accomplishment provided over 30,000 workers more income and the ability to access better and more healthy foods for themselves and their families. Another organization in the food justice space is the Fair Food Network, an organization that has embraced the mission of helping familIes who need healthy food to gain access to it while also increasing the livelihoold for farmers in America and growing local economies. Started by Oran B. Hesterma, the Fair Food Network has invested over $200 million in various projects and initiatives, such as the Double Up Food Bucks program, to help low-income and minority communities access healthier food.\n\nBees and other pollinating insects are currently improving the food production of 2 billion small farmers worldwide, helping to ensure food security for the world's population. Research shows that if pollination is managed well on small diverse farms, with all other factors being equal, crop yields can increase by a significant median of 24 percent.\n\nHow animal pollinators positively affect fruit condition and nutrient content is still being discovered.\n\n the concept of food security has mostly focused on food calories rather than the quality and nutrition of food. The concept of nutrition security evolved over time. In 1995, it has been defined as \"adequate nutritional status in terms of protein, energy, vitamins, and minerals for all household members at all times\".\n\nOrganizations:\n\n\n\nhttp://www.fao.org/fsnforum/ The Global Food Security and Nutrition Forum (FSN Forum)]\n"}
{"id": "25646914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25646914", "title": "Founding Fathers of Merseyside Football", "text": "Founding Fathers of Merseyside Football\n\nThe Founding Fathers of Merseyside Football is a series of oil paintings which celebrate the contributions of the men who kick-started and shaped the game in the nineteenth century.\n\nThe artwork came about after the discovery of a Sepia tone photograph of Ben Chambers in a long-lost album containing those of the Methodist ministers who had served the St Domingo congregation. On behalf of the Everton Shareholders’ Association, David France commissioned Wasan Suttikasem to produce a formal portrait of Rev Chambers and subsequently added the other individuals who influenced the direction of Merseyside football.\n\nThe six pioneers are Rev Ben Chambers, John Houlding, Dr James Baxter, George Mahon, John McKenna and Will Cuff, none of whom ever kicked a competitive football.\n\nThe six paintings will be exhibited together and rotated around different venues on Merseyside and beyond to promote stronger links between the two clubs.\n\nBen Swift Chambers (1845–1901)\nBy 1877, Rev Chambers’ career in the Methodist ministry brought him to the New Connexion Chapel in Liverpool. Once settled at St Domingo’s he became an avid supporter of the Band of Hope movement, a temperance organisation for working-class youngsters, and formed a cricket club to provide local youngsters with healthy exercise as well as the opportunity to develop the qualities of Christian sportsmanship. To that end Chambers persuaded the members of Young Men’s Bible Class to start St Domingo Football Club in 1878.\nJohn Houlding (1833–1902)\nThe prosperous brewer was active as a Conservative councillor for the Everton & Kirkdale ward and eventually as Lord Mayor of Liverpool. As the first president of Everton Football Club, he ushered the club from Stanley Park to the Anfield ground adjacent to his Sandon Hotel and masterminded the 10-year transformation from amateur enthusiasts into League champions. It was as an Orangeman and Anfield landlord that he gained notoriety. He sought to charge more rent after the club became successful. This brought Houlding into conflict with the Everton committee before he served them with a notice to quit in 1892 and recruited a new squad of players for his new club. Within nine seasons Liverpool Football Club was anointed League champions.\nJames Clement Baxter (1857–1928)\nHis dedication to the welfare of his patients, Irish migrants, the poor and local orphans, is legendary. It was almost matched by his devotion to Everton Football Club. Dr Baxter provided substantial funds to finance the construction of Goodison Park. James Baxter was a passionate Evertonian who served as a director, chairman and club doctor for nearly four decades. Born in Liverpool, the devout Roman Catholic also took an active part in local politics, serving as a Liberal councillor for the St Anne’s ward from 1906 until 1920. His son Cecil succeeded him on the board and as the club doctor. This resulted in an unbroken link of 65 years between his family and his football club.\nGeorge Mahon (1853–1908)\nLiverpool-born son of Dubliner parents, partner at the accounting firm of Roose, Mahon & Howard, organist at Great Homer Street Wesleyan Chapel and a Liberal politician, George Mahon was elected to the Everton committee in 1889. He clashed with John Houlding on the proposed improvements to the rented ground at Anfield, the term of the lease and also the size of the rent. Also he opposed the use of the Sandon Hotel as the club’s headquarters and, anticipating expulsion from Anfield, arranged to lease Mere Green from Mr. CJ Leyland. In his role as Everton’s first chairman, Mahon oversaw progress to two FA Cup finals before capturing the trophy in 1906. However, he will be always be celebrated as the man who led the club to the promised land in 1892.\nJohn McKenna (1855–1938)\nJohn McKenna was one of the many Ulstermen who came to Merseyside in search of work. A Freemason, Orangeman and Tory, he sided with John Houlding after ‘The Split’. Subsequently, he was appointed secretary-manager and recruited the famous ‘Team of Macs’ which facilitated Liverpool’s admission to Division 2 and eventual elevation to the top flight. Afterwards, McKenna concentrated on his administrative duties and served his club faithfully for four decades or so, during which time it captured the League title on three occasions. He retired in 1922 to devote his energies to the Football League. His friendship with Will Cuff created deep bonds between the Reds and the Blues.\nWill Cuff (1868–1949)\nWhile respected as the choir-master and trustee at St Domingo Chapel, Will Cuff (1868–1949) was venerated at Everton. Unquestionably the most successful administrator in Everton’s history, the local solicitor served as secretary, director and chairman and effectively ruled the club with an iron hand for four decades. Cuff’s first tastes of success were the 1906 FA Cup win and the 1914/15 League title. As chairman, he led the club to the 1926/27 and 1931/32 League titles and the 1933 FA Cup triumph. Cuff stood down at the start of the successful 1938/39 season in order to replace his friend John McKenna as the President of the Football League but will always be remembered as the man who demanded ‘School of Science’ style of play.\n"}
{"id": "25209688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25209688", "title": "Genetically modified mammal", "text": "Genetically modified mammal\n\nGenetically modified mammals are mammals that have been genetically engineered. They are an important category of genetically modified organisms. The majority of research involving genetically modified mammals involves mice with attempts to produce knockout animals in other mammalian species limited by the inability to derive and stably culture embryonic stem cells.\n\nThe majority of genetically modified mammals are used in research to investigate changes in phenotype when specific genes are altered. This can be used to discover the function of an unknown gene, any genetic interactions that occur or where the gene is expressed. Genetic modification can also produce mammals that are susceptible to certain compounds or stresses for testing in biomedical research. Some genetically modified mammals are used as models of human diseases and potential treatments and cures can first be tested on them. Other mammals have been engineered with the aim of potentially increasing their use to medicine and industry. These possibilities include pigs expressing human antigens aiming to increasing the success of xenotransplantation to lactating mammals expressing useful proteins in their milk.\n\nGenetically modified mice are often used to study cellular and tissue-specific responses to disease (cf knockout mouse). This is possible since mice can be created with the same mutations that occur in human genetic disorders, the production of the human disease in these mice then allows treatments to be tested.\n\nThe oncomouse is a type of laboratory mouse that has been genetically modified developed by Philip Leder and Timothy A. Stewart of Harvard University to carry a specific gene called an activated oncogene.\n\nMetabolic supermice are the creation of a team of American scientists led by Richard Hanson, professor of biochemistry at Case Western Reserve University at Cleveland, Ohio. The aim of the research was to gain a greater understanding of the PEPCK-C enzyme, which is present mainly in the liver and kidneys.\n\nA knockout rat is a rat with a single gene disruption used for academic and pharmaceutical research.\n\nBioSteel is a trademark name for a high-strength based fiber material made of the recombinant spider silk-like protein extracted from the milk of transgenic goats, made by Nexia Biotechnologies. The company has successfully generated distinct lines of goats that produce in their milk recombinant versions of either the MaSpI or MaSpII dragline silk proteins, respectively. Nexia Biotechnologies, however, went bankrupt and is no longer company.\n\nThe enviropig is the trademark for a genetically modified line of Yorkshire pigs with the capability to digest plant phosphorus more efficiently than ordinary unmodified pigs that was developed at the University of Guelph. Enviropigs produce the enzyme phytase in the salivary glands that is secreted in the saliva.\n\nIn 2006 the scientists from National Taiwan University's Department of Animal Science and Technology managed to breed three green-glowing pigs using green fluorescent protein. Fluorescent pigs can be used to study human organ transplants, regenerating ocular photoreceptor cells, neuronal cells in the brain, regenerative medicine via stem cells, tissue engineering, and other diseases.\n\nIn 2015, researchers at the Beijing Genomics Institute used transcription activator-like effector nucleases to create a miniature version of the Bama breed of pigs, and offered them for sale to consumers.\n\nIn 2017 scientists at the Roslin Institute of the University of Edinburgh, reported they had bred pigs with a modified CD163 gene. These pigs were completely resistant to Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome, a disease that causes major losses in the world-wide pig industry.\n\nHerman the Bull was in 1991 the first genetically modified or transgenic bovine in the world. The announcement of Herman's creation caused an ethical storm.\n\nRuppy (short for Ruby Puppy) was in 2009 the world's first Genetically modified dog. A cloned beagle, Ruppy and four other beagles produced a fluorescent protein that glowed red upon excitation with ultraviolet light. It was hoped to use this procedure to investigate the effect of the hormone oestrogen on fertility.\n\nA team in China reported in 2015 that they had genetically engineered beagles to have twice the normal muscle mass, inserting a natural myostatin gene mutation taken from whippets.\n\nIn 2009 scientists in Japan announced that they had successfully transferred a gene into a primate species (marmosets) and produced a stable line of breeding transgenic primates for the first time. It was hoped that this would aid research into human diseases that cannot be studied in mice, for example Huntington's disease, strokes, Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia.\n\nIn 2011 a Japanese-American Team created genetically modified green-fluorescent cats in order to find therapies for HIV/AIDS and other diseases as Feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV) is related to HIV.\n"}
{"id": "12886814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12886814", "title": "Gümüşlük International Classical Music Festival", "text": "Gümüşlük International Classical Music Festival\n\nThe Gümüşlük International Classical Music Festival is held in the small fishing village of Gümüşlük, Bodrum, on the south west coast of Turkey. It began in 2004 and between 2006 and 2012 was organised by \"Bodrum Klasik Müzik Derneği\" (Classical Music Association of Bodrum), founded in 2006 for this purpose. In 2016 the festival expanded its programming to include a dedicated guitar week, and a series of jazz concerts. The Gümüşlük Festival Academy is organised annually parallel to the festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "12884731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12884731", "title": "Haldane Burgess", "text": "Haldane Burgess\n\nJames John (J.J.) Haldane Burgess (1862–1927) was a Shetland historian, poet, novelist, violinist, linguist and socialist, a noted figure in Shetland's cultural history. His published works include \"Rasmie's Büddie, Some Shetland Folk, Tang, The Treasure of Don Andreas, Rasmie's Kit, Rasmie's Smaa Murr\", and \"The Viking Path\", the latter being translated into German. He was one of the Shetlanders who gave assistance to Jakob Jakobsen, in his researches into the Norn language in Shetland.\n\nBurgess was born on 28 May 1862. He was a son of Lerwick, whose grandfather had left Dunrossness as a soldier during the Napoleonic period and lived in Edinburgh for a time before settling in 'da toon' as a shopkeeper.\n\nHaldane Burgess won first place in the Glasgow Bursary Competition. He spent four years as a teacher in Bressay in order to pay for his university education. He studied divinity at Edinburgh University, but found himself in disagreement with certain doctrines. He lost his sight in his last year of study, took his final exams orally and returned to Lerwick. Later his promotion of socialist ideas made him a popular and radical figure. He was a major supporter of the development of the Shetland Festival Up Helly Aa.\n\nHe was a linguist and a champion of Esperanto. He developed a lifelong interest in Norse culture and taught himself Norwegian, later contributing articles to journals in Norway. In his lifetime he was best known for a novel entitled \"The Viking Path – A Tale of The White Christ\" (1894), set in Shetland and Norway at the coming of Christianity. The best-known of his work now is probably his verse in dialect, as published in \"Rasmie's Büddie: poems in the Shetlandic\" (1891), which was republished in 1913, and later in 1979 with illustrations by Frank Walterson. The poem 'Scranna' is one of the acknowledged classics of Shetlandic literature.\n\nLaurence I. Graham, in his essay \"Shetland Literature and the idea of community\" in \"Shetland’s Northern Links: Language and History\" (1996), writes that his novel \"Tang\" \"... was written in the closing years of the last century. It tells the story of a young girl, Inga, and her divided love for two men: one, her devoted admirer, a steady, hard working fisherman, and the other, a newly arrived minister, young, idealistic, unsure of himself and very susceptible to feminine charm and persuasion. It also presents a picture of a small community of crofter-fishermen, their women-folk, the merchant, the teacher, the minister and the laird. Burgess brings out the darker side of this community, the hypocrisy and occasional dishonesty, the servility of some crofters towards the gentry, the malicious gossip, the petty jealousies and spitefulness within the congregation and the damage done by itinerant hot-gospellers and their infernal, illegitimate-producing revival meetings' as Hakki, the agnostic schoolmaster, calls them. The novel certainly gives an unflattering picture of what passed for religious life at this period ... The arguments between Hakki, the outspoken agnostic, and the minister and laird are among the highlights of the book and it is obvious where the author's sympathies lie. It is certainly an unusual novel for its time when the Scottish Kailyard school of writing was still at its height ...\"\n\nA street in Lerwick, Haldane Burgess Crescent, is named after him. His younger brother William A. S. Burgess was also an author.\n"}
{"id": "55612595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55612595", "title": "Helley de Abreu Silva Batista", "text": "Helley de Abreu Silva Batista\n\nHeley de Abreu Silva Batista (1974 – 5 October 2017), was a Brazilian teacher. She gained notability after giving her own life in an act of courage to save children in the Tragedy of Janaúba. She saved at least 25 children, being considered a heroine.\n\nAs a teacher one of her key drivers was the inclusion of disabled students, area in which she specialized in 2016.\n\nOn October 5, 2017, Silva Batista was considered a heroine for saving several children from a fire at the Gente Inocente nursery in Janaúba, Minas Gerais. Heley, who came to fight with the watchman who ignited the fire, had ninety percent of her body burned, which led to her death.\n\nAfter the wake, which gathered hundreds of people at the municipal funeral home, the coffin with the body of the teacher was placed in a truck of the Fire Department and a procession was carried through the streets of the city to the São Lucas Cemetery. \n\nIn 2005, Silva Batista lost her child, drowned in the pool of a club.\n\nNational Order of Merit\n\nFaced with the act of bravery, considered a gesture of courage and heroism to save the lives of her students, President Michel Temer decided to grant her, post mortem, the National Order of Merit.\n"}
{"id": "12132234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12132234", "title": "Heraldic flag", "text": "Heraldic flag\n\nIn heraldry and vexillology, a heraldic flag is a flag containing coats of arms, heraldic badges, or other devices used for personal identification. \n\nHeraldic flags include banners, standards, pennons and their variants, gonfalons, guidons, and pinsels. Specifications governing heraldic flags vary from country to country, and have varied over time. \n\nThe pennon is a small elongated flag, either pointed or swallow-tailed (when swallow-tailed it may be described as a banderole). It was charged with the heraldic badge or some other armorial ensign of the owner, and displayed on his own lance, as a personal ensign. The \"pennoncelle\" was a modification of the pennon.\n\nIn contemporary Scots usage, the pennon is four feet long. It tapers either to a point or to a rounded end as the owner chooses. It is assigned by the Lord Lyon King of Arms to any armiger who wishes to apply for it.\n\nThe banner of arms (also simply called \"banner\") is square or oblong and larger than the pennon, bearing the entire coat of arms of the owner, composed precisely as upon a shield but in a square or rectangular shape.\n\nThe banners of members of Orders of Chivalry are typically displayed in the Order's chapel. Banners of Knights of the Order of the Thistle are hung in the 1911 chapel of the Order in St Giles High Kirk in Edinburgh. Banners of Knights of the Order of the Garter are displayed in St George's Chapel at Windsor Castle. From Victorian times Garter banners have been approximately 5 feet by 5 feet.\n\nBanners became available to all English armigers as a result of a report by Garter to the Earl Marshal dated 29 January 1906. The report stated that the size of banner for Esquires and Gentlemen should be considered in the future. Until that date they were available to all noblemen and knights banneret. In 2011, Garter Woodcock said that the banner for an Esquire or Gentleman should be the same size as a Marquess’s and those of a lower rank down to Knight, that is, 3 feet by 3 feet.\n\nIn Scotland, the size of personal banners, excluding any fringes, are specified by the Lord Lyon.\nThe heraldic standard appeared about the middle of the fourteenth century, and was in general use by personages of high rank in the two following centuries. The standard appears to have been adopted for the special purpose of displaying badges. \"The badge was worn on his livery by a servant as retainer, and consequently the standard by which he mustered in camp was of the livery colours, and bore the badge, with both of which the retainer was familiar.\"\n\nHeraldic flags that are used by individuals, like a monarch, as a means of identification are often called \"standards\" (e.g. royal standard). These flags, more usually \"banners\", however are not standards in a strict heraldic sense but have come to be known as such. A standard is not rectangular: it tapers, usually from 4 feet down to 2 feet, and the fly edge is rounded (lanceolate). In England any armiger who has been granted a badge is entitled to fly a standard.\n\nThe medieval English standard was larger than the other flags, and its size varied with the owner’s rank. The Cross of St. George usually appeared next to the staff, and the rest of the field was generally divided \"per fess\" (horizontally) into two colours, in most cases the livery colours of the owner. \"With some principal figure or device occupying a prominent position, various badges are displayed over the whole field, a motto, which is placed bend-wise, having divided the standard into compartments. The edges are fringed throughout, and the extremity is sometimes swallow-tailed, and sometimes rounded.\"\n\nThe Oriflamme was the royal standard of the King of France during the Middle Ages.\n\nIn Scotland, a standard requires a separate grant by the Lord Lyon. Such a grant is only made if certain conditions are met.\n\nThe length of the standard depends upon one’s noble rank.\n\nA Banderole (Fr. for a \"little banner\"), has both a literal descriptive meaning for its use by knights and ships, and is also heraldic device for representing bishops.\n\nA gonfalone or gonfalon is a vertically hung banner emblazoned with a coat of arms. Gonfalons have wide use in civic, religious, and academic heraldry. The term originated in Florence, Italy, where communities, or neighborhoods, traditionally displayed \"gonfaloni\" in public ceremonies.\n\nThe Scots guidon is similar in shape to the standard and pennon. At 6.5' long, it is smaller than the standard and twice the size of the pennon. Guidons are assigned by the Lord Lyon to those individuals who qualify for a grant of supporters to their Arms and to other individuals who have a following such as individuals who occupy a position of leadership or a long-term official position commanding the loyalty of more than a handful of people. The Guidon tapers to a round, unsplit end at the fly.\n\nA guidon can also refer to a cavalry troop's banner, such as that which survived the Custer massacre.\n\nThe Scottish pinsel is triangular in shape, 2.5 feet high at the hoist and 4.5 feet in width tapering to a point. This is the flag denoting a person to whom a Clan Chief has delegated authority for a particular occasion, such as a clan gathering when the Chief is absent. This flag is allotted only to Chiefs or very special Chieftain-Barons for practical use, and only upon the specific authority of the Lord Lyon King of Arms.\n\n\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "975319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=975319", "title": "Hilma Granqvist", "text": "Hilma Granqvist\n\nHilma Natalia Granqvist (17 July 1890 Sipoo – 25 February 1972 Helsinki) was a Swedish-speaking Finnish anthropologist who conducted long field studies of Palestinians. She was a student of Edvard Westermarck.\n\nIn the 1920s Granqvist arrived at the village of Artas, just outside Bethlehem in the then British Mandate of Palestine as part of her research on the women of the Old Testament. She had gone to Palestine \"in order to find the Jewish ancestors of Scripture\". What she found instead was a Palestinian people with a distinct culture and way of life. She therefore changed the focus of her research to a full investigation of the customs, habits and ways of thinking of the people of that village. Granqvist ended up staying until 1931 documenting all aspects of village life. In so doing she took hundreds of photographs.\"\n\n\"God knows that our outfit today<br>\nA hundred ‘royal’ robes which we have cut<br>\nFor the bride to whom we are betrothed.<br>\nGod knows – today is our outfit<br>\nA green and a ‘royal’ [malak] dress we have bought<br>\nFor the bride to whom we are betrothed!<br>\nTen jackets [taqsireh] have we bought<br>\nFor the beloved ones in order to appease her\"<br>\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3314841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3314841", "title": "Improvisation in music therapy", "text": "Improvisation in music therapy\n\nIn music therapy improvisation is defined as a process where the client and therapist relate to each other. The client makes up music, musical improvisation, while singing or playing, extemporaneously creating a melody, rhythm, song, or instrumental piece. In clinical improvisation, client and therapist (or client and other clients) relate to one another through the music. Improvisation may occur individually, in a duet, or in a group. The client may use any musical or nonmusical medium within his or her capabilities. Musical media includes voice, body sound, percussion, and string, wind, and keyboard instruments. Nonmusical media can consist of images, titles, and stories.\n\nMusic therapy is a systematic process; it is not a series of random events. Systematic means that music therapy is \"purposeful, organized, methodical, knowledge-based, and regulated\" (Bruscia 1998). One of the most important features is its methodical processes. Methodical means that music therapy always proceeds in an orderly fashion. It involves three basic steps: assessment, treatment, and evaluation. Treatment is the part of a music therapy process in which the therapist engages the client in various musical experiences, employing specific methods and in-the-moment techniques. When planning treatment, the music therapist has to select the types of music and music experiences that will be most relevant to the client. There are four basic types of music experiences, or methods, in which a client may be engaged: listening, re-creating, composition, and improvisation.\n\nClinical Improvisation is a generative and creative process of musical intervention involving the client's spontaneous creation of sounds and music. It helps the client to explore aspects of self, in relation to others, in an appropriate way. Improvisation also generates new and individualized musical forms. Using musical improvisation in a therapeutic setting can increase independence. The interactive use of improvisation facilitates problem-solving, because it is flexible rather than predetermined. Getting the client involved in an improvisational experience can develop social skills and interaction.\n\nAccording to Bruscia (1998), clinical goals that can be achieved through improvisation are as follows:\n\nImprovisation can be carried out with both musical and nonmusical references. (Bruscia 1987, 10)\n\nBruscia (1987) and Wigram (2004) introduced a variety of improvisational techniques in their books. Among these, there are a few major therapeutic techniques. Imitating is a basic technique of empathy in which the music therapist copies or repeats a client's response, after the response has been displayed. The music therapist focuses on any sound, rhythm, interval or even facial expression. Reflecting is a technique in which the music therapist expresses the same moods or feelings which have been presented by the client. Rhythmic grounding is implemented by establishing a steady beat or rhythm, supporting the client's improvisation. The use of a rhythmic ostinato is an example of rhythmic grounding. Dialoguing is a process in which the music therapist and the client communicate through their improvisations. Lastly, accompanying is a technique in which the music therapist supports the client's improvisation by giving an accompaniment that consists of rhythm, melody, and chord progressions.\n\nIt is important to have variety in music therapy sessions. Improvisation should be conducted using more than just one or two methods and techniques. It is also critical to maintain flexibility during the improvisation. For example, the music therapist can preserve a flexible session flow by incorporating several methods, such as imitating, accompanying, dialoguing, and rhythmic grounding.\n\nBruscia, Kenneth E. 1987. \"Improvisational Models of Music Therapy\". Springfielf,IL; Charles C. Thomas Publications.\n<br>Bruscia, Kenneth E. 1998. \"Defining Music Therapy\". Gilsum, NH: Barcelona Publishers.\n<br>Wigram, Tony. 2004. \"Improvisation: Methods and Techniques for Music Therapy Clinicians, Educators and Students\". New York:Jessica Kingsley Publishers.\n\n"}
{"id": "4155673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4155673", "title": "Liminal being", "text": "Liminal being\n\nLiminal beings are those that cannot easily be placed into a single category of existence. Associated with the threshold state of liminality, from Latin \"līmen\", \"threshold\", they represent and highlight the semi-autonomous boundaries of the social world.\n\nLiminal beings are naturally ambiguous, challenging the cultural networks of social classification.\n\nThe cultural anthropologist Victor Turner considered that liminal entities, such as those undergoing initiation rites, often appeared in the form of monsters, so as to represent the co-presence of opposites—high/low; good/bad—in the liminal experience.\n\nLiminal personas are structurally and socially invisible, having left one set of classifications and not yet entered another. The social anthropologist Mary Douglas has highlighted the dangerous aspects of such liminal beings, but they are also potentially beneficent. Thus we often find presiding over a ritual's liminal stage a semi-human shaman figure, or a powerful mentor with animal aspects, such as a centaur.\n\nBy extension, liminal beings of a mixed, hybrid nature appear regularly in myth, legend and fantasy. A legendary liminal being is a legendary creature that combines two distinct states of simultaneous existence within one physical body. This unique perspective may provide the liminal being with wisdom and the ability to instruct, making them suitable mentors, whilst also making them dangerous and uncanny.\n\nMany beings in fantasy and folklore exist in liminal states impossible in actual beings:\n\nHybrids (two species):\n\n\nBoth human and spirit by blood:\n\nBoth human and vegetable:\n\nBoth alive and dead:\nBoth human and machine:\nBoth human and alien:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "485404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=485404", "title": "List of Sudbury schools", "text": "List of Sudbury schools\n\nSudbury schools practice a form of schooling in which students individually decide what to do with their time, and learn as a by-product of ordinary experience rather than through classes or a standard curriculum. Students have complete responsibility for their own education and the school is run by a direct democracy in which students and staff have an equal vote.\n\nThe 'Sudbury' name refers to Sudbury Valley School, founded in 1968 in Framingham, Massachusetts. The Sudbury Valley School has been the inspiration for numerous schools many of which refer to themselves as 'Sudbury schools.'\n\nThe Sudbury Valley School formally rejects the idea that there can be an official definition or official list of Sudbury schools and in 2016 ended its earlier practice of linking to other schools which claimed to operate in a manner similar to them. Daniel Greenberg, one of the founders of the Sudbury Valley School has written that there are two things that distinguish a Sudbury Model school: everyone is treated equally and there is no authority other than that granted by the consent of the school community. A few schools which refer to themselves as Sudbury Schools continue to publish their own lists of schools for which they feel an affinity; those lists you may find referenced on the web sites of those specific schools.\n\n *Ecole Democratique de l'Orneau, Lonzee\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nhttp://www.riverstonevillage.co.za\nRiverstone Village, Johannesburg (Pilot stage, opening Jan 2018)\n\n\nCalifornia\nColorado\nConnecticut\nDelaware\nFlorida\nGeorgia\nIllinois\nIndiana\nKansas\nKentucky\n\nMaryland\nMassachusetts\nMontana\nNew Jersey\nNorth Carolina\nNew York\nOhio\nOregon\nPennsylvania\nTennessee\nTexas\nUtah\nVirginia\nWashington\n\nWest Virginia\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28180058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28180058", "title": "List of active separatist movements in Asia", "text": "List of active separatist movements in Asia\n\nThis is a list of currently active separatist movements in Asia. Separatism includes autonomism and secessionism. What is and is not considered an autonomist or secessionist movement is sometimes contentious. Entries on this list must meet three criteria:\n\nUnder each region listed is one or more of the following:\n\n\"Breakaway state\":\n\n Chittagong Hill Tracts\n\n\n Arakan\n\n\n\n\n\nKokang\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Self-declared state\":\n\nThe People's Republic of China (China, PRC) considers itself the sole legitimate state representing \"China\". The PRC's territory consists of Mainland China, Hong Kong, and Macau. The PRC also claims the ROC-controlled area to be its territory. The PRC established the Special Administrative Region in Hong Kong and Macau under one country, two systems policy.\n\nThe Republic of China (Taiwan, ROC) also identifies itself as the sole legitimate state representing \"China\". The ROC's territory consists of the island of Taiwan, Penghu, Kinmen, Matsu, and nearby islands. The ROC also constitutionally claims the PRC-controlled area to be its territory.\n\nInner Mongolia Autonomous Region\n\n\nTibet\n\nXinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region\n\n\n\"Breakaway states\":\n\n<nowiki> </nowiki>Abkhazia\n\n\"Proposed autonomous movements\":\n\n\nKashmir\n\n\nKhalistan\n\nNagaland\n\nTripura\n\nManipur\n\nAssam\n\nBodoland\n\nKamtapur\n\nAceh\n\nKalimantan\n\nSouth Moluccas\n\nMinahasa\n\nWest Papua\n\nRiau\n\nAzerbaijan (Iran)\n\nTurkmen Sahra\n\nKhūzestān\n\nIranian Kurdistan\n\nBalochistan\n\n\"See: Minorities in Iraq\"\n\nProposed states:\n\n\nSinjar \n\n Hokkaido\n\n\n\nChaoFa\nMember of the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization\n\n\n Sarawak\n\n\nMadhesh\n\n Balochistan\n\n\n\n\"See: International recognition of Palestine/currently mostly occupied by Israel as part of the Palestinian territories\"\n\n\nBangsamoro Region\nCordillera Administrative Region\nNational Capital Region\n\n\n Siberian regionalism\n\n\n\n Rojava\n\nProposed states:\n\n\n\nBadakhshan\n\n Patani\n\n Northern Kurdistan\n\n South Vietnam\n\n\n Karakalpakstan\n\n South Yemen\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58606989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58606989", "title": "List of cities by international visitors", "text": "List of cities by international visitors\n\nThis is a list of 100 cities in the world ranked by the number of international visitors, including all international arrivals by land, sea, or plane, for tourist or business purposes. Advisor Euromonitor and the corporation Mastercard define the concept of the foreign visitor differently thus their respective rankings differ.\n\nEuromonitor counts a visitor only if a person spends at least 24 hours in the city. The growth column compares international arrivals to the previous year. For cities bordering directly on foreign territory, border crossings from country to country are not counted (for example between Singapore and the neighboring Malaysia). \n\nMastercard Global Destinations Cities Index counts a visitor only if a person stayed overnight at least once in the city. The income column shows the amount visitors spent in each city. For cities bordering directly on foreign territory, border crossings from country to country are not counted as international visitors.\n"}
{"id": "8212503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8212503", "title": "List of fitness wear brands", "text": "List of fitness wear brands\n\nThis is a list of fitness wear clothing brands with articles on Wikipedia. \n\n"}
{"id": "363419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=363419", "title": "Maggot", "text": "Maggot\n\nA maggot is the larva of a fly (order Diptera); it is applied in particular to the larvae of Brachycera flies, such as houseflies, cheese flies, and blowflies, rather than larvae of the Nematocera, such as mosquitoes and Crane flies. A 2012 study estimated the population of maggots in North America alone to be in excess of 3 x 10 trillion.\n\n\"Maggot\" is not a technical term and should not be taken as such; in many standard textbooks of entomology it does not appear in the index at all. In many non-technical texts the term is used for insect larvae in general. Other sources have coined their own definitions; for example: \"... The term applies to a grub when all trace of limbs has disappeared ...\" and \"...Applied to the footless larvae of Diptera.\"\n\nMaggot-like fly larvae are of wide importance in ecology and medicine; among other roles, various species are prominent in recycling carrion and garbage, attacking crops and foodstuffs, spreading microbial infections, and causing myiasis.\n\nAnglers use maggots usually provided by commercial suppliers to catch non-predatory fish.\nMaggots are the most popular bait for anglers in Europe. Anglers throw handfuls into the \"swim\" they are targeting, attracting the fish to the area. The angler will then use the largest or most attractive maggots on the hook, hoping to be irresistible to the fish. Commercial maggot breeders from the UK sell their maggots to tackle dealers throughout the E.U. and North America.\n\nIn North America, maggots have been used primarily as ice fishing bait; recently, however, anglers have started using them year-round.\n\nLive maggots of certain species of flies have been applied since antiquity as an effective means of wound debridement. (Use of the wrong species would invite pathological myiasis). In controlled and sterile settings by medical practitioners, maggot therapy introduces live, disinfected maggots into non-healing skin or soft wounds of a human or animal. Currently the only maggots cleared for marketing in the United States are larvae of Calliphorid flies of the species Phaenicia sericata (formerly known as \"Lucilia sericata\"). This species of maggots is most widely used in the world as well, but it is unclear if it is the only species cleared for marketing outside of the United States. They feed on the dead or necrotic tissue, leaving sound tissue largely unharmed. Studies have also shown that maggots are used to kill bacteria. There are three midgut lysozymes of \"P. sericata\" that have been confirmed to show antibacterial effects in maggot debridement therapy. The study demonstrated that the majority of gram-positive bacteria were destroyed in vivo within the particular section of the \"P. sericata\" midgut where lysozymes are produced. During the passage through the intestine of the maggots, the ability of bacteria to survive drastically decreased, implying the antibacterial action of the three midgut lysozymes. As of 2008, maggot therapy was being used in around 1,000 medical centers in Europe and over 300 medical centers in the United States.\n\nThe presence and development of maggots on a corpse are useful in the estimation of time elapsed since death. Depending on the species and the conditions, maggots may be observed on a body within 24 hours. The eggs are laid directly on the food source and when the eggs hatch, the maggots move towards their preferred conditions and begin to feed. By studying the insects present at a crime scene, forensic entomologists can determine the approximate time of death. Insects are usually useful after a post-mortem interval (PMI) of approximately 25–80 hours, depending on ambient conditions. After this interval, this method becomes less reliable.\n\nAs with fleas and ticks, maggots can be a threat to household pets and livestock, especially sheep. Flies reproduce rapidly in the summer months and maggots can come in large numbers, creating a maggot infestation and a high risk of myiasis (a maggot infestation of living tissue) in sheep and other animals. Humans are not immune to the feeding habits of maggots and can also contract myiasis. Interaction between humans and maggots usually occurs near garbage cans, dead animals, rotten food and other breeding grounds for maggots.\n\nWhen maggots turn into adult flies and start the life cycle over, numbers will grow exponentially if unchecked, but disease, natural predators and parasites keep the population under control. Sealing garbage and using a garbage disposal or freezing rotting leftovers until waste collection day helps prevent infestation. Introducing an environmental control, such as Histeridae, can also help reduce maggot populations.\n\n"}
{"id": "20533905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20533905", "title": "Maleficium (sorcery)", "text": "Maleficium (sorcery)\n\nMaleficium (plural: \"maleficia\") as a Latin term, \"An act of witchcraft performed with the intention of causing damage or injury; the resultant harm.\" In general, the term applies to any magical act intended to cause harm or death to people or property. Its use in English comes from \"Early 17th century; earliest use found in George Abbot (1562–1633), archbishop of Canterbury. From classical Latin maleficium evil deed, injury, sorcery from maleficus + -ium\". In general, the term applies to any magical act intended to cause harm or death to people or property.\n\nAccording to the \"Witchcraft of Illinois\", Maleficium can involve the act of poisoning or drugging someone. Practitioners of maleficium are not exclusively females, although popular culture of witchcraft favors it. Those accused of maleficium were punished by being imprisoned or even executed. Maleficium also used the practice of torture, and it was generally considered to be performed through the power of the Devil.\n\nIn 1970, new research on witch-hunts and charges of witchcraft was conducted in the last couple of years. It discussed all of the fears, accusations, etc. that happened in the villages. There were different charges of maleficium that were placed due to suspicion. Lewis and Russell stated, \"\"Maleficium\" was a threat not only to individuals but also to public order, for a community wracked by suspicions about witches could split asunder\".\n\n\"Sorcery, the practice of malevolent magic, derived from casting lots as a means of divining the future in the ancient Mediterranean world\". Most scholars always assume that sorcery as a whole is always malevolent, but that witch craft can be good or evil. Usually, the sorcerer and sorcery are feared by society.\n\nDuring the 14th century, sorcery was more connected with cultures in India and Africa. A person that performs sorcery is referred to as a sorcerer, and they are thought of as someone that tries to reform the world through an occult. Sorcerers were feared and respected throughout many societies and used many practices to achieve their goals. \"Witches or sorcerers were usually feared as well as respected, and they used a variety of means to attempt to achieve their goals, including incantations (formulas or chants invoking evil spirits), divination and oracles (to predict the future), amulets and charms (to ward off hostile spirits and harmful events), potions or salves, and dolls or other figures (to represent their enemies)\".\n\nSorcery was also thought to sometimes rely on idols or old pagan gods, demons or the devil to get its power. Practitioners sometimes did this by performing rituals. One of the rituals that they performed was the slaughtering of an animal in a field to promote fertility. Sorcerers would do this with the assisted help or power of a god, a demon, or the devil.\n\nDuring the 13th century, sorcery was involved in many deaths. They were thought to be done with magic, but were usually a result of poisoning. In 1324, there was a very famous case involving a series of events caused by sorcery in Ireland. Author George Melton wrote, \"Lady Alice Kyteller was charged with performing magical rites, having sexual intercourse with demons, attempting to divine the future, and poisoning her first three husbands. In the \"Malleus Maleficarum\" (1486, \"The Hammer of Witches\"), the famous witch-hunter’s manual, Dominicans Heinrich Krämer and Jacob Sprenger associated the practice of sorcery with a group of \"witches\" who allegedly practiced Satanism\". After this, many believed that magic had to deal with the devil rather than other gods and spirits.\n\nIn the Byzantine Empire astrologers (Lat. \"mathematici\") were considered magical wrongdoers and so were heretics.\n\nThe term appears in several historically important texts, notably in the \"Formicarius\" (printed 1475) and in the \"Malleus Maleficarum\" (1487).\n\nThe Knights Templar were accused by Philip IV of France of maleficium. The trial of the Knights Templar set a social standard for the popular belief in maleficium and witchcraft that contributed to the great European witch hunts. In early New England, more men would get accused of such maleficium that was \"non-malefic\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1396645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1396645", "title": "Men’s adventure", "text": "Men’s adventure\n\nMen's adventure is a genre of magazine that was published in the United States from the 1940s until the early 1970s. Catering to a male audience, these magazines featured pin-up girls and lurid tales of adventure that typically featured wartime feats of daring, exotic travel or conflict with wild animals. These magazines were also colloquially called \"armpit slicks\", \"men's sweat magazines\" or \"the sweats\", especially by people in the magazine publishing or distribution trades.\n\nFawcett Publications was having some success with their slick magazine \"True\" whose stories developed more of a war focus after the U.S. entered World War II in 1941. Pulp magazine \"Argosy\" opted to switch to slick paper in 1943, and mix in more 'true' stories amidst the fiction. The other major pulps \"Adventure\", \"Blue Book\" and \"Short Stories\" eventually followed suit. Soon new magazines joined in - Fawcett's \"Cavalier\", \"Stag\" and \"Swank\". During their peak in the late 1950s, approximately 130 men's adventure magazines were being published simultaneously.\n\nThe interior tales usually claimed to be true stories. Women in distress were commonly featured in the painted covers or interior art, often being menaced or tortured by Nazis or, in later years, Communists. Typical titles which relied on especially lurid and salacious cover illustrations include \"Man's Story, Men Today, World of Men\", and \"Man's Epic\". \n\nMany of the stories were actual historical accounts of battles and the biographies and exploits of highly decorated soldiers. Several of the stories were combined and issued under various titles in paperback editions by Pyramid Books with the credit \"edited by Phil Hirsch\". Phil Hirsch was vice president of Pyramid Books from 1955 to 1975.\n\nIn the 1970s, many of the men's adventure magazines dropped the fiction and \"true action\" stories, and started focusing on pictorials of nude women and non-fiction articles related to sex or current events.\n\nArtist Norman Saunders was the dean of illustrators for these magazines, occupying a position similar to that enjoyed by Margaret Brundage for the classic pulps. Charles Copeland and Earl Norem were two other popular artists who worked for the Magazine Management stable of magazines. Many illustrations that were uncredited were done by Bruce Minney, Norm Eastman, Gil Cohen, Mel Crair, Basil Gogos, and Vic Prezio among others. James Bama contributed over 400 cover and interior illustrations for an approximate eight-year period circa 1957–1964 before turning to paperback cover illustration as his mainstay. Historical artist Mort Künstler painted many covers and illustrations for these magazines, and \"Playboy\" photographer Mario Casilli started out shooting pinups for this market. At publisher Martin Goodman's Magazine Management Company, future best-selling humorist and author Bruce Jay Friedman was a men's sweat writer-editor, and Mario Puzo was a contributor before he became a well-known novelist. Pierre Boulle, Ray Bradbury, Erskine Caldwell, Ian Fleming, Robert F. Dorr and Mickey Spillane also contributed short stories or novel excerpts to men's adventure magazines.\n\nPaperback novels became increasingly popular in the 1950s and 1960s, and series' such as Don Pendleton's \"The Executioner\" mined a similar vein of war story, and continued on long after the magazines themselves shifted away from such fare.\n\nThe title of the Frank Zappa and The Mothers of Invention album \"Weasels Ripped My Flesh\" was borrowed from a man-against-beast cover story in the September 1956 issue of \"Man's Life\", and the title went through another permutation when filmmaker Nathan Schiff made the horror feature \"Weasels Rip My Flesh\" (1979).\n\nThere have been attempts to revive the \"Argosy\" title, once in the 1990s, again in 2004, and finally in 2013. \"Soldier of Fortune\" carried on the tradition of war stories for a male audience. A few contemporary \"lad mag\" periodicals such as \"FHM\" and \"Maxim\" are somewhat similar to the earlier adventure magazines, featuring a combination of glamour photography and occasional true adventure/horror stories. Publishers such as Hard Case Crime put out new and reprint paperback novels in the hard-boiled pulp tradition. Online book vendor Amazon.com uses the genre label \"men's adventure\" in a general sense to categorize adventure novels where the hero is an adult man to distinguish these books from \"women's adventure\" and \"children's action & adventure.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "40653247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40653247", "title": "Mosaic Network", "text": "Mosaic Network\n\nThe Mosaic Network is a charitable initiative founded by Charles, Prince of Wales in 2007. Mosaic delivers mentoring programmes in primary and secondary schools and in prisons. The mentoring programmes are designed to help those from disadvantaged communities to realise their potential with the support of volunteer mentors. Mosaic operates in five regions of the UK: London, North West, South East, West Midlands and Yorkshire.\n\nIn the academic year 2012/13, Mosaic supported 5,000 young people in 140 schools and other institutions, supported by over 900 volunteers. 83% of UK beneficiaries were drawn from the 20% most deprived areas of the country. Mosaic also operates internationally through its International Leadership Programme and delivery of its Enterprise Challenge competition with local partners in Jordan and Qatar. Mosaic’s International Leadership Programme supports 80 young leaders from 16 countries\n\nMosaic’s schools programmes have received independent accreditation through the Approved Provider Standard of the Mentoring & Befriending Foundation. In addition, Mosaic’s programmes have been independently evaluated by Demos, the leading research organisation, which described its programmes as “very well run and both the mentors and mentees reported significant benefits in taking part”. In 2013, Mosaic received The Prime Minister's Big Society Award \nMosaic is an initiative of Business in the Community (BITC). As such, Mosaic is part of The Prince's Charities. Mosaic is overseen by a national Advisory Board. Mosaic's Founder Chairman was HRH Princess Badiya bint El Hassan of Jordan.\n\nThe Apax-Mosaic Enterprise challenge is a national competition for secondary school students across the UK, designed to develop and encourage their entrepreneurial skills. Indian Chef Vivek Singh of The Cinnamon Club in London supported the launch of Enterprise Challenge & hosted World of Work by giving students a real insight into the restaurant industry.\n\nIn January 2015, Mosaic was nominated for the Spirit of Britain award at the British Muslim Awards.\n"}
{"id": "20345051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20345051", "title": "O Desertor das Letras", "text": "O Desertor das Letras\n\nO Desertor das Letras was a heroic-comic poem which was published by Manuel Inácio da Silva Alvarenga.\n"}
{"id": "32847855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32847855", "title": "Personal Demons (Desrochers novel)", "text": "Personal Demons (Desrochers novel)\n\nPersonal Demons is the first book in the Personal Demons trilogy by American author, Lisa Desrochers. This young adult, urban fantasy series centers around Frannie Cavanaugh, a good Catholic girl with a unique skill she’s unaware she possesses, who finds herself in a battle for not just her soul, but also her heart, between Lucifer Cain, a demon sent by the king of Hell to tag Frannie’s soul, and Gabriel, the angel sent to protect her.\n\nPrior to release, \"Personal Demons\" received praise from \"New York Times\" bestselling authors including Claudia Gray and Maria V. Snyder, as well as School Library Journal. Barnes&Noble.com reviews called \"Personal Demons\" “\"Twilight\" with a soul.”\n\n\"Personal Demons\" was first published in the United States on September 14, 2010 by Tor Teen, an imprint of Macmillan. On October 1, 2010, the Australian edition was released by Pan Macmillan. Editora iD released the Brazilian translation in December 2010. In 2011, foreign translations were published in May by Newton Compton in Italy, where it was re-titled \"Il Bacio Maledeto\" (the Cursed Kiss), in June in Spain by La Factoria de Ideas and in August in Germany by Rowohlt where it was re-titled \"Angel Eyes\". Publication of additional translations are in production in France, Russia, Hungary, Turkey, Poland and Portugal.\n\nTold from Frannie’s and Luc’s alternating points of view, \"Personal Demons\" begins when Luc Cain, a demon employed in Hell’s Acquisitions Department, walks into Frannie Cavanaugh’s high school (Haden High) on a mission to tag for a specific soul for Hell. He meets up with Frannie and uses his demonic charm to lure Frannie to him.\n\nHowever, things got unsettled for Luc when Gabriel arrives, prepared to do anything to keep him from getting what he came for. Frannie finds herself torn between the two boys, and it isn’t long before they find themselves fighting for more than just her soul.\n\nAs the story unfolds, a variety of demons show up to finish the job that Luc seems unable to bring himself to complete. Frannie won’t bend to Luc, but Gabriel is unable to tag her soul for Heaven and protect her until she forgives herself for her perceived guilt in the death of her twin brother years earlier.\n\nIn this classic struggle between good and evil, angel and demon race to tag Frannie’s soul and determine the fate of Heaven and Earth.\n\n\"Personal Demons\" explores issues of faith and forgiveness, as well as first love and finding one’s place in the world.\n\nAuthor Lisa Desrochers said she started writing a few years back for her daughter, who was an avid reader. \"Personal Demons\" started when her demon, Lucifer Cain popped into her head and begun to tell his story. “I’m just the poorly paid help with the laptop,” Desrochers said about the experience. “I took dictation as fast as I could.”\n\nShe researched demon and angel hierarchies and shaped her fictional Hell into a bureaucracy, where we meet demons who work in Acquisitions, Security, and Corrections Departments.\n\nFrannie (Mary Francis) Cavanaugh, the 17-year-old protagonist who, though unaware of it, possesses a skill so powerful that she has the king of Hell shivering with anticipation.\n\nLuc Cain, the demon sent by King Lucifer from Hell’s Acquisitions Department to tag Frannie’s soul. He struggles with his changing feelings toward Frannie, and by the end, discovers she’s changed more than his mind.\n\nGabe, a Dominion from the Second Sphere, and the Left Hand of the archangel Gabriel, sent to protect Frannie and keep Luc from getting what he came for.\n\nBelias and Avaria, demons sent to tag Frannie for Hell when Luc is slow getting the job done.\n\nBeherit, Head of Acquisitions for Hell, who takes matters into his own hands when no one is able to tag Frannie.\n\nGrandpa (Ed Shanahan), Frannie’s maternal grandfather, with whom she rebuilds vintage Mustangs. He is her confidant. His wife (Frannie’s grandmother) with whom Frannie was also close, died in an accident.\n\nDaniel Cavanaugh, Frannie’s father. Luc notices something strange about him at first meeting and finds he’s unable to phase into Frannie’s house. We’re unsure what his situation is at the end of \"Personal Demons\", but find out in the sequel, \"Original Sin\".\n\nMary Theresa, Mary Katherine, Mary Grace and Mary Margaret, Frannie’s sisters, who also may have special skills.\n\nTaylor and Riley, Frannie’s best friends who plays an instrumental roll in book two of the Personal Demons trilogy, \"Original Sin\".\n\nCliff Nielsen, the artist responsible for Cassandra Clare’s \"City of Bones\" cover, designed all three covers for the Personal Demons Trilogy, depicting the struggle of the three main characters, Frannie, Luc and Gabe.\n\nBarnes&Noble.com said, \"While comparing an unassuming debut novel to an international pop culture phenomenon may be unfair, the reality is this: \"Personal Demons\" by Lisa Desrochers is better written than \"Twilight\", has more well developed and realistic characters, and is decidedly more edgy and existentially weighty. Yes, I completely understand the mass appeal of Meyer’s Twilight saga – and while angels and demons may not be as “sexy” as werewolves with abs of steel and brooding vampiric James Dean wannabes, the profoundly deep questions raised in \"Personal Demons\" (about the existence of God, the inanity of organized religion, the healing power of forgiveness, etc.) make it a much more forceful read.\"\n\n\"School Library Journal\" \"Heavy on teen angst, this novel will be enjoyed by fans of supernatural romance.”\n\n\"Booklist\" said, “...introducing some wild twists in a tale that stands alone well enough but leaves avenues for sequels. Though the theology doesn’t bear close examination, readers may have to take breaks to cool down.”\n\n2010 \"Library Journal\" Fall Firsts pick.\n\n2011 \"YALSA\" Popular Paperback for Young Adults nominee.\n\nAuthor website http://www.LisaDWrites.com\n"}
{"id": "368413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=368413", "title": "Postcolonial literature", "text": "Postcolonial literature\n\nPostcolonial literature is the literature by people from formerly colonized countries. It exists on all continents except Antarctica. Postcolonial literature often addresses the problems and consequences of the decolonization of a country, especially questions relating to the political and cultural independence of formerly subjugated people, and themes such as racialism and colonialism. A range of literary theory has evolved around the subject. It addresses the role of literature in perpetuating and challenging what postcolonial critic Edward Said refers to as cultural imperialism.\n\nMigrant literature and postcolonial literature show some considerable overlap. However, not all migration takes place in a colonial setting, and not all postcolonial literature deals with migration. A question of current debate is the extent to which postcolonial theory also speaks to migration literature in non-colonial settings.\n\nThe significance of the prefix \"post-\" in \"postcolonial\" is a matter of contention. It is difficult to determine when colonialism begins and ends, and therefore to agree that \"postcolonial\" designates an era \"after\" colonialism has ended. Colonial history unfolds in overlapping phases: Spanish and Portuguese expansion begins in the 15th century; British, French, Dutch and German colonization unfold from between the 16th and 18th centuries until the independence movements of Asia, Africa and the Caribbean in the mid-twentieth century. It is also difficult to determine the postcolonial status of settler colonies such as Australia and Canada, or that of pre-colonial-era colonies such as Ireland. Neocolonialism and the effects of imperialism (i.e. the western attitudes that justify colonial practices), which persist even after the end of colonialism (i.e. the practice of securing colonies for economic gain), make it difficult to determine whether a colonizer's physical evacuation guarantees post-colonial status.\n\nBefore the term \"postcolonial literature\" gained currency, \"commonwealth literature\" was used to refer to writing in English from countries belonging to the British commonwealth. Even though the term included British literature, it was most commonly used for writing in English produced in British colonies. Scholars of commonwealth literature used the term to designate writing in English that dealt with colonialism's legacy. They advocated for its inclusion in literary curricula, hitherto dominated by the British canon. However, the succeeding generation of postcolonial critics, many of whom belonged to the post-structuralist philosophical tradition, took issue with the Commonwealth label for separating non-British writing from \"English\" literature produced in England. They also suggested that texts in this category had a short-sighted view of imperialism's impact.\n\nOther terms used for the writing in English from former British colonies include terms that designate a national corpus of writing such as Australian or Canadian Literature; \"English Literature Other than British and American,\" \"New Literatures in English,\" \"International Literature in English;\" and \"World Literatures.\" These have, however, been dismissed either as too vague or too inaccurate to represent the vast body of dynamic writing emerging from the colonies both during and after colonial rule. The term \"colonial\" and \"postcolonial\" continue to be used for writing emerging during and after colonial rule respectively.\n\nThe consensus in the field is that \"post-colonial\" (with a hyphen) signifies a period that comes chronologically \"after\" colonialism. \"Postcolonial,\" on the other hand, signals the persisting impact of colonization across time periods and geographical regions. While the hyphen implies that history unfolds in neatly distinguishable stages from pre- to post-colonial, omitting the hyphen creates a comparative framework by which to understand the varieties of local resistance to colonial impact. Arguments in favor of the hyphen suggest that the term \"postcolonial\" dilutes differences between colonial histories in different parts of the world and that it homogenizes colonial societies. The body of critical writing that participates in these debates is called Postcolonial theory.\n\nPostcolonial fiction writers deal with the traditional colonial discourse, either by modifying or by subverting it, or both. Postcolonial literary theory re-examines colonial and postcolonial literature, especially concentrating upon the social discourse between the colonizer and the colonized that shaped and produced the literature. In \"Orientalism\" (1978), Edward Saïd analyzed the fiction of Honoré de Balzac, Charles Baudelaire, and Lautréamont (Isidore-Lucien Ducasse), exploring how they shaped and were influenced by the societal fantasy of European racial superiority. He pioneered the branch of postcolonial criticism called colonial discourse analysis.\n\nAnother important theorist of colonial discourse is Harvard University professor Homi K Bhabha, (1949 – ). He has developed a number of the field's neologisms and key concepts, such as hybridity, third-space, mimicry, difference, and ambivalence. Western canonical works like Shakespeare's \"The Tempest,\" Charlotte Brontë's \"Jane Eyre,\" Jane Austen's \"Mansfield Park,\" Rudyard Kipling's \"Kim,\" and Joseph Conrad's \"Heart of Darkness\" have been targets of colonial discourse analysis. The succeeding generation of postcolonial critics focus on texts that \"write back\" to the colonial center. In general, postcolonial theory analyzes how anti-colonial ideas, such as anti-conquest, national unity, négritude, pan-Africanism and postcolonial feminism were forged in and promulgated through literature. Prominent theorists include Gayatri Spivak, Frantz Fanon, Bill Ashcroft, Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o, Chinua Achebe, Leela Gandhi, Gareth Griffiths, Abiola Irele, John McLeod, Hamid Dabashi, Helen Tiffin, Khal Torabully, and Robert Young.\n\nThe sense of identification with a nation, or nationalism, fueled anti-colonial movements in the aftermath of colonialism. Language and literature were factors in consolidating this sense of national identity to resist the impact of colonialism. With the advent of the printing press, newspapers and magazines helped people across geographical barriers identify with a shared national community. This idea of the nation as a homogeneous imagined community connected across geographical barriers through the medium of language became the model for the modern nation. Postcolonial literature not only helped consolidate national identity in anti-colonial struggles but also critiqued the European colonial pedigree of nationalism. As depicted in Salman Rushdie's novels for example, the homogeneous nation was built on European models by the exclusion of marginalized voices. They were made up of religious or ethnic elites who spoke on behalf of the entire nation, silencing minority groups.\n\nNégritude is a literary and ideological philosophy, developed by francophone African intellectuals, writers, and politicians in France during the 1930s. Its initiators included Martinican poet Aimé Césaire, Léopold Sédar Senghor (a future President of Senegal), and Léon Damas of French Guiana. Négritude intellectuals disapproved of French colonialism and claimed that the best strategy to oppose it was to encourage a common racial identity for native Africans worldwide.\n\nPan-Africanism was a movement among English-speaking black intellectuals who echoed the principles négritude. Frantz Omar Fanon (1925 – 1961), a Martinique-born Afro-Caribbean psychiatrist, philosopher, revolutionary, and writer, was one of the proponents of the movement. His works are influential in the fields of postcolonial studies, critical theory, and Marxism. As an intellectual, Fanon was a political radical and Marxist humanist concerned with the psychopathology of colonization, and the human, social, and cultural consequences of decolonization.\n\nMarcus Mosiah Garvey, Jr. (18871940), another proponent of Pan-Africanism, was a Jamaican political leader, publisher, journalist, entrepreneur, and orator. He founded the Universal Negro Improvement Association and African Communities League (UNIA-ACL). He also founded the Black Star Line, a shipping and passenger line which promoted the return of the African diaspora to their ancestral lands. Prior to the 20th century, leaders such as Prince Hall, Martin Delany, Edward Wilmot Blyden, and Henry Highland Garnet advocated the involvement of the African diaspora in African affairs. However, Garvey was unique in advancing a Pan-African philosophy to inspire a global mass movement and economic empowerment focusing on Africa. The philosophy came to be known as Garveyism. Promoted by the UNIA as a movement of \"African Redemption\", Garveyism would eventually inspire others, ranging from the Nation of Islam to the Rastafari movement (some sects of which proclaim Garvey as a prophet).\n\nAgainst advocates of literature that promoted African racial solidarity in accordance with negritude principles, Frantz Fanon argued for a national literature aimed at achieving national liberation. Paul Gilroy argued against reading literature both as an expression of a common black racial identity and as a representation of nationalist sentiments. Rather, he argued that black cultural forms—including literature—were diasporic and transnational formations born out of the common historical and geographical effects of transatlantic slavery.\n\nThe “anti-conquest narrative” recasts the indigenous inhabitants of colonized countries as victims rather than foes of the colonisers. This depicts the colonised people in a more human light but risks absolving colonisers of responsibility by assuming that native inhabitants were \"doomed\" to their fate.\n\nIn her book \"Imperial Eyes,\" Mary Louise Pratt analyzes the strategies by which European travel writing portrays Europe as a secure home space against a contrasting representation of colonized outsiders. She proposes a completely different theorization of \"anti-conquest\" than the ideas discussed here, one that can be traced to Edward Said. Instead of referring to how natives resist colonization or are victims of it, Pratt analyzes texts in which a European narrates his adventures and struggles to survive in the land of the non-European Other. This secures the innocence of the imperialist even as he exercises his dominance, a strategy Pratt terms \"anti-conquest.\" The anti-conquest is a function of how the narrator writes him or her self out of being responsible for or an agent, direct or indirect, of colonization and colonialism. This different notion of anti-conquest is used to analyze the ways in which colonialism and colonization are legitimized through stories of survival and adventure that purport to inform or entertain. Pratt created this unique notion in association with concepts of contact zone and transculturation, which have been very well received in Latin America social and human science circles. The terms refer to the conditions and effects of encounter between the colonizer and the colonized.\n\nPostcolonial feminism emerged as a response to the Eurocentric focus of feminism. It accounts for the way that racism and the long-lasting political, economic, and cultural effects of colonialism affect non-white, non-Western women in the postcolonial world.\n\nThe Pacific Islands comprise 20,000 to 30,000 islands in the Pacific Ocean. Depending on the context, it may refer to countries and islands with common Austronesian origins, islands once or currently colonized, or Oceania.\nThere is a burgeoning group of young pacific writers who respond and speak to the contemporary Pasifika experience, including writers Lani Wendt Young, Courtney Sina Meredith and Selina Tusitala Marsh, among others. Reclamation of culture, loss of culture, diaspora, all themes common to postcolonial literature, are present within the collective Pacific writers. Pioneers of the literature include two of the most influential living authors from this region: Witi Ihimaera, New Zealand's first published Māori novelist, and Samoan poet Albert Wendt (1939 – ). Wendt lives in New Zealand. Among his works is \"Leaves of the Banyan Tree\" (1979). He is of German heritage through his paternal great-grandfather, which is reflected in some of his poems. He describes his family heritage as \"totally Samoan\", even though he has a German surname. However, he does not explicitly deny his German heritage.\n\nAnother notable figure from the region is Sia Figiel (1967 ), a contemporary Samoan novelist, poet, and painter, whose debut novel \"Where We Once Belonged\" won the Commonwealth Writers' Prize \"Best First Book of 1997,\" \"South East Asia and South Pacific Region\". Sia Figiel grew up amidst traditional Samoan singing and poetry, which heavily influenced her writing. Figiel's greatest influence and inspiration in her career is the Samoan novelist and poet, Albert Wendt.\n\nAt the point of the first colonization, Indigenous Australians had not developed a system of writing, so the first literary accounts of aborigines come from the journals of early European explorers, which contain descriptions of first contact, both violent and friendly. Early accounts by Dutch explorers and the English buccaneer William Dampier wrote of the \"natives of New Holland\" as being \"barbarous savages\", but by the time of Captain James Cook and First Fleet marine Watkin Tench (the era of Jean-Jacques Rousseau), accounts of aborigines were more sympathetic and romantic: \"these people may truly be said to be in the pure state of nature, and may appear to some to be the most wretched upon the earth; but in reality they are far happier than ... we Europeans\", wrote Cook in his journal on 23 August 1770.\n\nWhile his father, James Unaipon (c.1835-1907), contributed to accounts of aboriginal mythology written by the missionary George Taplin, David Unaipon (1872–1967) provided the first accounts of aboriginal mythology written by an aboriginal: \"Legendary Tales of the Aborigines\". For this he is known as the first Aboriginal author. Oodgeroo Noonuccal (1920–1995) (born Kath Walker) was an Australian poet, political activist, artist and educator. She was also a campaigner for Aboriginal rights. Oodgeroo was best known for her poetry, and was the first Aboriginal Australian to publish a book of verse \"We Are Going\" (1964).\n\nSally Morgan's novel \"My Place\" (1987) was considered a breakthrough memoir in terms of bringing indigenous stories to wider notice. Leading aboriginal activists Marcia Langton (\"First Australians\", 2008) and Noel Pearson (\"Up From the Mission\", 2009) are active contemporary contributors to Australian literature.\n\nThe voices of Indigenous Australians are being increasingly noticed and include the playwright Jack Davis and Kevin Gilbert. Writers coming to prominence in the 21st century include Kim Scott, Alexis Wright, Kate Howarth Tara June Winch, in poetry Yvette Holt and in popular fiction Anita Heiss.\n\nIndigenous authors who have won Australia's high prestige Miles Franklin Award include Kim Scott who was joint winner (with Thea Astley) in 2000 for \"Benang\" and again in 2011 for \"That Deadman Dance.\" Alexis Wright won the award in 2007 for her novel \"Carpentaria.\"\n\nMany notable works have been written by non-indigenous Australians on aboriginal themes. Eleanor Dark's (1901–1985) \"The Timeless Land\" (1941) is the first of \"The Timeless Land\" trilogy of novels about European settlement and exploration of Australia. The narrative is told from English and Aboriginal points of view. The novel begins with two Aboriginal men watching the arrival of the First Fleet at Sydney Harbour on 26 January 1788. Other examples include the poems of Judith Wright, \"The Chant of Jimmie Blacksmith\" by Thomas Keneally, \"Ilbarana\" by Donald Stuart, and the short story by David Malouf: \"The Only Speaker of his Tongue\".\n\nSee also: Kenyan literature and Literature of Madagascar\n\nAmadou Hampâté Bâ (1901– 1991), a Malian writer and ethnologist, and Ayi Kwei Armah (1939 – ) from Ghana, author of \"Two Thousand Seasons\" have tried to establish an African perspective to their own history. Another significant African novel is \"Season of Migration to the North\" by Tayib Salih from the Sudan.\n\nDoris Lessing (1919 – 2013) from Southern Rhodesia, now Zimbabwe, published her first novel \"The Grass is Singing\" in 1950, after immigrating to England. She initially wrote about her African experiences. Lessing soon became a dominant presence in the English literary scene, frequently publishing right through the century, and won the nobel prize for literature in 2007. Yvonne Vera (1964 – 2005) was an award-winning author from Zimbabwe. Her novels are known for their poetic prose, difficult subject-matter, and their strong women characters, and are firmly rooted in Zimbabwe's difficult past. Tsitsi Dangarembga (1959 – ) is a notable Zimbabwean author and filmmaker.\n\nNgũgĩ wa Thiong'o (1938 – ) is a Kenyan writer, formerly working in English and now working in Gikuyu. His work includes novels, plays, short stories, and essays, ranging from literary and social criticism to children's literature. He is the founder and editor of the Gikuyu-language journal \"Mũtĩiri\".\n\nBate Besong (1954 – 2007) was a Cameroonian playwright, poet and critic, who was described by Pierre Fandio as “one of the most representative and regular writers of what might be referred to as the second generation of the emergent Cameroonian literature in English\". \nOther Cameroonian playwrights are Anne Tanyi-Tang, and Bole Butake.\n\nNigerian author Chinua Achebe (1930 – 13) gained worldwide attention for \"Things Fall Apart\" in the late 1950s. Achebe wrote his novels in English and defended the use of English, a \"language of colonisers\", in African literature. In 1975, his lecture \"An Image of Africa: Racism in Conrad's \"Heart of Darkness\"\" featured a famous criticism of Joseph Conrad as \"a thoroughgoing racist\". A titled Igbo chieftain himself, Achebe's novels focus on the traditions of Igbo society, the effect of Christian influences, and the clash of Western and traditional African values during and after the colonial era. His style relies heavily on the Igbo oral tradition, and combines straightforward narration with representations of folk stories, proverbs, and oratory. He also published a number of short stories, children's books, and essay collections.\n\nWole Soyinka (1934 – ) is a playwright and poet, who was awarded the 1986 Nobel Prize in Literature, the first African to be honored in that category.\nSoyinka was born into a Yoruba family in Abeokuta. After study in Nigeria and the UK, he worked with the Royal Court Theatre in London. He went on to write plays that were produced in both countries, in theatres and on radio. He took an active role in Nigeria's political history and its struggle for independence from Great Britain. In 1965, he seized the Western Nigeria Broadcasting Service studio and broadcast a demand for the cancellation of the Western Nigeria Regional Elections. In 1967 during the Nigerian Civil War, he was arrested by the federal government of General Yakubu Gowon and put in solitary confinement for two years.\nSoyinka has been a strong critic of successive Nigerian governments, especially the country's many military dictators, as well as other political tyrannies, including the Mugabe regime in Zimbabwe. Much of his writing has been concerned with \"the oppressive boot and the irrelevance of the colour of the foot that wears it\".\n\nChimamanda Ngozi Adichie (1977) is a novelist, nonfiction writer and short story writer. A MacArthur Genius Grant recipient, Adichie has been called \"the most prominent\" of a \"procession of critically acclaimed young anglophone authors [that] is succeeding in attracting a new generation of readers to African literature\".\n\nBuchi Emecheta OBE (1944 – 2017 ) is a Nigerian novelist based in Britain who has published more than 20 books, including \"Second-Class Citizen\" (1974), \"The Bride Price\" (1976), \"The Slave Girl\" (1977) and \"The Joys of Motherhood\" (1979). Her themes of child slavery, motherhood, female independence and freedom through education have won her considerable critical acclaim and honours, including an Order of the British Empire\n\nElleke Boehmer (cf. Cullhed, 2006: 79) writes, “Nationalism, like patriarchy, favours singleness—one identity, one growth pattern, one birth and blood for all ... [and] will promote specifically unitary or ‘one-eyed’ forms of consciousness.” The first problem any student of South African literature is confronted with, is the diversity of the literary systems. Gerrit Olivier notes, \"While it is not unusual to hear academics and politicians talk about a 'South African literature', the situation at ground level is characterised by diversity and even fragmentation\". Robert Mossman adds that \"One of the enduring and saddest legacies of the apartheid system may be that no one – White, Black, Coloured (meaning of mixed-race in South Africa), or Asian – can ever speak as a \"South African.\" The problem, however, pre-dates Apartheid significantly, as South Africa is a country made up of communities that have always been linguistically and culturally diverse. These cultures have all retained autonomy to some extent, making a compilation such as the controversial \"Southern African Literatures\" by Michael Chapman, difficult. Chapman raises the question:\n\n[W]hose language, culture, or story can be said to have authority in South Africa when the end of apartheid has raised challenging questions as to what it is to be a South African, what it is to live in a new South Africa, whether South Africa is a nation, and, if so, what its mythos is, what requires to be forgotten and what remembered as we scour the past in order to understand the present and seek a path forward into an unknown future.\nSouth Africa has 11 national languages: Afrikaans, English, Zulu, Xhosa, Sotho, Pedi, Tswana, Venda, SiSwati, Tsonga, and Ndebele. Any definitive literary history of South Africa should, it could be argued, discuss literature produced in all eleven languages. But the only literature ever to adopt characteristics that can be said to be \"national\" is Afrikaans. Olivier argues: \"Of all the literatures in South Africa, Afrikaans literature has been the only one to have become a national literature in the sense that it developed a clear image of itself as a separate entity, and that by way of institutional entrenchment through teaching, distribution, a review culture, journals, etc. it could ensure the continuation of that concept.\" Part of the problem is that English literature has been seen within the greater context of English writing in the world, and has, because of English's global position as \"lingua franca\", not been seen as autonomous or indigenous to South Africa – in Olivier’s words: \"English literature in South Africa continues to be a sort of extension of British or international English literature.\" The African languages, on the other hand, are spoken across the borders of Southern Africa - for example, Tswana is spoken in Botswana, and Tsonga in Zimbabwe, and Sotho in Lesotho. South Africa's borders were drawn up by the British Empire and, as with all other colonies, these borders were drawn without regard for the people living within them. Therefore: in a history of South African literature, do we include all Tswana writers, or only the ones with South African citizenship? Chapman bypasses this problem by including \"Southern\" African literatures. The second problem with the African languages is accessibility, because since the African languages are regional languages, none of them can claim the readership on a national scale comparable to Afrikaans and English. Sotho, for instance, while transgressing the national borders of the RSA, is on the other hand mainly spoken in the Free State, and bears a great amount of relation to the language of Natal for example, Zulu. So the language cannot claim a national readership, while on the other hand being \"international\" in the sense that it transgresses the national borders.\n\nOlivier argues that \"There is no obvious reason why it should be unhealthy or abnormal for different literatures to co-exist in one country, each possessing its own infrastructure and allowing theoreticians to develop impressive theories about polysystems\". Yet political idealism proposing a unified \"South Africa\" (a remnant of the colonial British approach) has seeped into literary discourse and demands a unified national literature, which does not exist and has to be fabricated. It is unrealistic to ever think of South Africa and South African literature as homogenous, now or in the near or distant future, since the only reason it is a country at all is the interference of European colonial powers. This is not a racial issue, but rather has to do with culture, heritage and tradition (and indeed the constitution celebrates diversity). Rather, it seems more sensible to discuss South African literature as literature produced within the national borders by the different cultures and language groups inhabiting these borders. Otherwise the danger is emphasising one literary system at the expense of another, and more often than not, the beneficiary is English, with the African languages being ignored. The distinction \"black\" and \"white\" literature is further a remnant of colonialism that should be replaced by drawing distinctions between literary systems based on language affiliation rather than race.\nThe first texts produced by black authors were often inspired by missionaries and frequently deal with African history, in particular the history of kings such as Chaka. Modern South African writing in the African languages tends to play at writing realistically, at providing a mirror to society, and depicts the conflicts between rural and urban settings, between traditional and modern norms, racial conflicts and most recently, the problem of AIDS.\n\nIn the first half of the 20th century, epics largely dominated black writing: historical novels, such as Sol T. Plaatje’s \"Mhudi: An Epic of South African Native Life a Hundred Years Ago\" (1930), Thomas Mofolo’s \"Chaka\" (trans. 1925), and epic plays including those of H. I. E. Dhlomo, or heroic epic poetry such as the work of Mazizi Kunene. These texts “evince black African patriarchy in its traditional form, with men in authority, often as warriors or kings, and women as background figures of dependency, and/or mothers of the nation” (Cullhed, 2006: 21). Female literature in the African languages is severely limited because of the strong influence of patriarchy, but over the last decade or two society has changed much and it can be expected that more female voices will emerge.\n\nThe following are notable white South African writers in English: Athol Fugard, Nadine Gordimer, J. M. Coetzee, and Wilbur Smith. André Brink has written in both Afrikaans and English while Breyten Breytenbach writes primarily in Afrikaans, though many of their works have been translated into English. Dalene Matthee's (1938 – 2005) is another Afrikaner, best known for her four \"Forest Novels\", written in and around the Knysna Forest, including \"Fiela se Kind\" (1985) (\"Fiela's Child\"). Her books have been translated into fourteen languages, including English, French, and German. and over a million copies have been sold worldwide.\n\nMaryse Condé (1937 – ) is a French (Guadeloupean) author of historical fiction, best known for her novel \"Segu\" (1984–1985).\n\nAn exemplar post-colonial novel is \"Wide Sargasso Sea\" (1966) by Jean Rhys (1890 – 1979), a mid-twentieth century novelist who was born and grew up in the Caribbean island of Dominica, though she was mainly resident in England from the age of 16. This novel is based on \"Jane Eyre\" (1847), by Charlotte Brontë, re-told from the perspective of a subaltern protagonist, Antoinette Cosway. It is the story of Antoinette Cosway, a white Creole heiress, from the time of her youth in Jamaica, to her unhappy marriage to a certain English gentleman—he is never named by the author. He renames her to a prosaic Bertha, declares her mad, and requires her to relocate to England. Caught in an oppressive patriarchal society in which she fully belongs neither to the white Europeans nor the black Jamaicans, Cosway is Rhys' version of Brontë's devilish \"madwoman in the attic.\" As with many postcolonial works, the novel deals with the themes of racial inequality and the harshness of displacement and assimilation. It is also concerned with power relations between men and women.\n\nThe term \"West Indies\" first began to achieve wide currency in the 1950s, when writers such as Samuel Selvon, John Hearne, Edgar Mittelholzer, V.S. Naipaul, and George Lamming began to be published in the United Kingdom. A sense of a single literature developing across the islands was also encouraged in the 1940s by the BBC radio programme \"Caribbean Voices\", which featured stories and poems written by West Indian authors, recorded in London under the direction of producer Henry Swanzy, and broadcast back to the islands. Magazines such as \"Kyk-Over-Al\" in Guyana, \"Bim\" in Barbados, and \"Focus\" in Jamaica, which published work by writers from across the region, also encouraged links and helped build an audience.\n\nMany—perhaps most—West Indian writers have found it necessary to leave their home territories and base themselves in the United Kingdom, the United States, or Canada in order to make a living from their work—in some cases spending the greater parts of their careers away from the territories of their birth. Critics in their adopted territories might argue that, for instance, V. S. Naipaul ought to be considered a British writer instead of a Trinidadian writer, or Jamaica Kincaid and Paule Marshall American writers, but most West Indian readers and critics still consider these writers \"West Indian\".\n\nWest Indian literature ranges over subjects and themes as wide as those of any other \"national\" literature, but in general many West Indian writers share a special concern with questions of identity, ethnicity, and language that rise out of the Caribbean historical experience.\n\nOne unique and pervasive characteristic of Caribbean literature is the use of \"dialect\" forms of the national language, often termed creole. The various local variations in the language adopted from the colonial powers such as Britain, Spain, Portugal, France and the Netherlands, have been modified over the years within each country and each has developed a blend that is unique to their country. Many Caribbean authors in their writing switch liberally between the local variation - now commonly termed nation language - and the standard form of the language.\nTwo West Indian writers have won the Nobel Prize for Literature: Derek Walcott (1992), born in St. Lucia, resident mostly in Trinidad during the 1960s and '70s, and partly in the United States since then; and V. S. Naipaul, born in Trinidad and resident in the United Kingdom since the 1950. (Saint-John Perse, who won the Nobel Prize in 1960, was born in the French territory of Guadeloupe.)\n\nOther notable names in (anglophone) Caribbean literature have included Earl Lovelace, Austin Clarke, Claude McKay, Orlando Patterson, Andrew Salkey, Edward Kamau Brathwaite (who was born in Barbados and has lived in Ghana and Jamaica), Linton Kwesi Johnson, and Michelle Cliff, to name only a few. In more recent times, a number of literary voices have emerged from the Caribbean as well as the Caribbean diaspora, including Kittitian Caryl Phillips (who has lived in the UK since one month of age), Edwidge Danticat, a Haitian immigrant to the United States; Anthony Kellman from Barbados, who divides his time between Barbados and the United States; Andrea Levy of the United Kingdom, Jamaicans Colin Channer and Marlon James, the author of the Man Booker Prize-winning novel \"A Brief History of Seven Killings\" (2014) (as well as \"John Crow's Devil\", \"The Book of Night Women\", the unpublished screenplay \"Dead Men\", and the short story \"Under Cover of Darkness\"), Antiguan Marie-Elena John, and Lasana M. Sekou from St. Maarten/St. Martin.\n\nEarl Lovelace (1935 – ) is an award-winning Trinidadian novelist, journalist, playwright, and short story writer. He is particularly recognized for his descriptive, dramatic fiction on Trinidadian culture: \"Using Trinidadian dialect patterns and standard English, he probes the paradoxes often inherent in social change as well as the clash between rural and urban cultures.\" As Bernardine Evaristo notes, \"Lovelace is unusual among celebrated Caribbean writers in that he has always lived in Trinidad. Most writers leave to find support for their literary endeavours elsewhere and this, arguably, shapes the literature, especially after long periods of exile. But Lovelace's fiction is deeply embedded in Trinidadian society and is written from the perspective of one whose ties to his homeland have never been broken.\"\n\nAmerican David Henry Hwang's play \"M. Butterfly\" addresses the Western perspective on China and the French as well as the American perspectives on Vietnam during the Vietnam War. It was inspired by Giacomo Puccini's opera \"Madama Butterfly\".\n\nMaxine Hong Kingston (1940– ) is a Chinese American author who has written three novels and several works of non-fiction about the experiences of Chinese immigrants living in the United States.\n\nBharati Mukherjee although of East Indian ancestry has gone on record that she considers herself an American writer, and not an Indian expatriate writer. In a 1989 interview with Amanda Meer, Mukherjee said: \"I totally consider myself an American writer, and that has been my big battle: to get to realize that my roots as a writer are no longer, if they ever were, among Indian writers, but that I am writing about the territory about the feelings, of a new kind of pioneer here in America. I’m the first among Asian immigrants to be making this distinction between immigrant writing and expatriate writing. Most Indian writers prior to this, have still thought of themselves as Indians, and their literary inspiration, has come from India. India has been the source, and home. Whereas I’m saying, those are wonderful roots, but now my roots are here and my emotions are here in North America.\"\n\nJhumpa Lahiri (1967 –) is an Indian-American author. Lahiri's debut short story collection \"Interpreter of Maladies\" (1999) won the 2000 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction, and her first novel, \"The Namesake\" (2003), was adapted into the popular film of the same name.\n\nThroughout American history, African Americans have been discriminated against and subject to racist attitudes. This experience inspired some Black writers, at least during the early years of African-American literature, to prove they were the equals of European-American authors. As Henry Louis Gates, Jr, has said, \"it is fair to describe the subtext of the history of black letters as this urge to refute the claim that because blacks had no written traditions they were bearers of an inferior culture.\"\n\nBy refuting the claims of the dominant culture, African-American writers were also attempting to subvert the literary and power traditions of the United States. Some scholars assert that writing has traditionally been seen as \"something defined by the dominant culture as a white male activity.\" This means that, in American society, literary acceptance has traditionally been intimately tied in with the very power dynamics which perpetrated such evils as racial discrimination. By borrowing from and incorporating the non-written oral traditions and folk life of the African diaspora, African-American literature broke \"the mystique of connection between literary authority and patriarchal power.\" In producing their own literature, African Americans were able to establish their own literary traditions devoid of the white intellectual filter. This view of African-American literature as a tool in the struggle for Black political and cultural liberation has been stated for decades, perhaps most famously by W. E. B. Du Bois.\n\nGiannina Braschi (1953) is a Puerto Rican writer, who is credited with writing the first Spanglish novel \"Yo-Yo Boing!\" (1998), the post-modern poetry trilogy \"Empire of Dreams\" (1994), and the philosophical fiction \"United States of Banana\" (2011), which chronicles the Latin American immigrants' experiences in the United States and the Puerto Rican battle with Spanish and American colonialism.\n\nNative American Renaissance is a term originally coined by critic Kenneth Lincoln in the 1983 book \"Native American Renaissance\" to categorise the significant increase in production of literary works by Native Americans in the United States in the late 1960s onwards. A. Robert Lee and Alan Velie note that the book's title \"quickly gained currency as a term to describe the efflorescence on literary works that followed the publication of N. Scott Momaday's \"House Made of Dawn\" in 1968\". Momaday's novel garnered critical acclaim, including the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction in 1969.\n\nThe Canadian writer Margaret Atwood is a post-colonial writer who dealt with themes of identity-seeking through her Southern Ontario Gothic style of writing.\n\nCanadian Michael Ondaatje, is an internationally acclaimed author with Sri Lankan roots, which he has explored in works like \"Running in the Family\" (1983) and \"The Cat's Table\" (2011).\n\nCyril Dabydeen (1945 – ) is a Guyana-born, Canadian writer of Indian descent. He grew up in a sugar plantation with the sense of Indian indenture rooted in his family background.\n\nAfrican-Canadian George Elliott Clarke has promoted Black authors with \"Directions Home: Approaches to African-Canadian Literature\" (2012) as well as his own poetry, novels and plays.\n\nIn the decade 2008-18 Canadian Indigenous writers published so many works that some critics called it a renaissance. This phenomenon was studied in \"Introduction to Indigenous Literary Criticism in Canada\" (2015). Eds Heather MacFarlane & Armand Garnet Ruffo.\n\nCanadian scholar, Joseph Pivato has promoted the study of ethnic minority authors with \"Comparative Literature for the New Century\" (2018). Eds. Giulia De Gasperi & Joseph Pivato. \n\nSee also Egyptian literature, Iraqi literature, Syrian literature, and Palestinian literature\nMajor figures are Naguib Mahfouz the Egyptian novelist, and Edward Said an eminent Palestinian scholar who has written especially on the topic of Orientalism.\nAccording to Said's work \"the Orient\" is a term constructed as the inferior shadow to the civilized and powerful West, the Occident. Its supposed inferiority is explained in racial terms. The Egyptian Revolution of 1919, against British rule in Egypt and the Sudan, had a strong effect on Mahfouz, although he was at the time only seven years old. From the window he often saw British soldiers firing at the demonstrators, men and women. \"You could say [...] that the one thing which most shook the security of my childhood was the 1919 revolution\", he later said.\n\nPhilippine literature includes the legends of prehistory, and the colonial legacy of the Philippines. Pre-Hispanic Philippine literature were actually epics passed on from generation to generation originally through oral tradition. However, wealthy families, especially in Mindanao were able to keep transcribed copies of these epics as family heirloom. One such epic was the Darangen, epic of the Maranaos of Lake Lanao. Most of the epics were known during the Spanish era.\n\nMost of the notable literature of the Philippines was written during the Spanish period and the first half of the 20th century in the Spanish language. Philippine literature is written in Spanish, English, or any indigenous Philippine languages.\nNotable authors include F. Sionil José, Jose Dalisay, Jr., N. V. M. Gonzalez and Nick Joaquin.\n\nDutch Indies literature includes Dutch language postcolonial literature reflecting on the era of the Dutch East Indies (now: Indonesia). Much of the postcolonial literature of this genre is written by Dutch Eurasians known as Indos. Important authors that have been translated to English include, Tjalie Robinson, Maria Dermout, and Marion Bloem.\n\nBonny Hicks (1968 – 1997) was a Singapore Eurasian model and writer. After garnering fame as a model, she gained recognition for her contributions to Singaporean post-colonial literature and for the anthropic philosophy conveyed in her works. Her first book, \"Excuse Me, Are You A Model?\", is recognised as a significant milestone in the literary and cultural history of Singapore.\n\nOne of the key issues is the superiority/inferiority of Indian Writing in English as opposed to the literary production in the various languages of India. Key polar concepts bandied in this context are superficial/authentic, imitative/creative, shallow/deep, critical/uncritical, elitist/parochial and so on.\n\nThe views of Salman Rushdie and Amit Chaudhuri expressed through their books \"The Vintage Book of Indian Writing\" and \"The Picador Book of Modern Indian Literature\" respectively essentialise this battle. Rushdie's statement in his book – \"the ironic proposition that India's best writing since independence may have been done in the language of the departed imperialists is simply too much for some folks to bear\" – created a lot of resentment among many writers, including writers in English. In his book, Amit Chaudhuri questions – \"Can it be true that Indian writing, that endlessly rich, complex and problematic entity, is to be represented by a handful of writers who write in English, who live in England or America and whom one might have met at a party?\"\n\nChaudhuri feels that after Rushdie, Indian writing in English started employing magical realism, bagginess, non-linear narrative and hybrid language to sustain themes seen as microcosms of India and supposedly reflecting Indian conditions. He contrasts this with the works of earlier writers such as R. K. Narayan where the use of English is pure, but the deciphering of meaning needs cultural familiarity. He also feels that Indian is a theme constructed only in IWE and does not articulate itself in the vernacular literature. He further adds \"the post-colonial novel, becomes a trope for an ideal hybrid by which the West celebrates not so much Indian, whatever that infinitely complex thing is, but its own historical quest, its reinterpretation of itself\".\n\nSome of these arguments form an integral part of what is called postcolonial theory. The very categorisation of IWE – as IWE or under post-colonial literature – is seen by some as limiting. Amitav Ghosh made his views on this very clear by refusing to accept the Eurasian Commonwealth Writers Prize for his book \"The Glass Palace\" in 2001 and withdrawing it from the subsequent stage.\n\nThe renowned writer V. S. Naipaul, a third generation Indian from Trinidad and Tobago and a Nobel prize laureate, is a person who belongs to the world and usually not classified under IWE. Naipaul evokes ideas of homeland, rootlessness and his own personal feelings towards India in many of his books.\n\nIndian authors like Amitav Ghosh, Anita Desai, Hanif Kureishi, Rohinton Mistry, Meena Alexander, Arundhati Roy and Kiran Desai have written about their postcolonial experiences.\n\nThe most significant novels of the current generation of Indian novelists in Urdu are \"Makaan\" by Paigham Afaqui (1956 – ), \"Do Gaz Zameen\" by Abdus Samad, and \"Pani\" by Ghazanfer. These works, especially \"Makaan\", has moved the Urdu novel beyond the prevalent themes relating to Pakistan's gaining of independence in 1947, and identity issues, and take it into modern-day realities and issues of life in India. \"Makaan\" influenced many English writers including Vikram Seth. Paigham Afaqui's second major novel, \"Paleeta\", was published in 2011 and depicts the political cynicism of a common Indian citizen in the six decades after India's independence.\n\nThe Hungry Generation was a literary movement in the Bengali language launched by what is known today as the \"Hungryalist quartet\", \"i.e.\" Shakti Chattopadhyay, Malay Roy Choudhury, Samir Roychoudhury and Debi Roy (\"alias\" Haradhon Dhara), during the 1960s in Kolkata, India. Due to their involvement in this avant garde cultural movement, the leaders lost their jobs and were jailed by the incumbent government. They challenged contemporary ideas about literature and contributed significantly to the evolution of the language and idiom used by contemporaneous artists to express their feelings in literature and painting.\n\nNissim Ezekiel (1924 – 2004) was a foundational figure in postcolonial India's literary history, specifically for Indian writing in English.\n\nMahashweta Devi (1926 – 2016) is an Indian social activist and writer. \nn\n\nSri Lankan writers like Nihal De Silva and Carl Muller write about the post-colonial situation and the ethnic conflict in Sri Lanka. See also Michael Ondaatje under Canada.\n\nSelim Al Deen from Bangladesh has also written postcolonial drama.\n\nThe novels of J. G. Farrell are important texts dealing with the collapse of the British Empire. \"Troubles\", is set during the Irish War of Independence (1919–1921), and is the first instalment in Farrell's \"Empire Trilogy\", preceding \"The Siege of Krishnapur\" and \"The Singapore Grip\", all written during the 1970s. Although there are similar themes within the three novels (most notably that of the British Empire), they do not form a sequence of storytelling. \"The Siege of Krishnapurn\" was inspired by events such as the sieges of Siege of Cawnpore (Kanpur) and Lucknow, and details the siege of a fictional Indian town, Krishnapur, during the Indian Rebellion of 1857 from the perspective of the British residents. \"The Singapore Grip\" is satirical book about events following Japan's entry into the Second World War and occupation of Singapore. The story centres on a British family who control one of the colony's leading trading companies.\n\nNovelist E. M. Forster's \"A Passage to India\" (1924) takes as its subject the relationship between East and West, seen through the lens of India in the later days of the British Raj. Forster connects personal relationships with the politics of colonialism through the story of the Englishwoman Adela Quested, the Indian Dr. Aziz, and the question of what did or did not happen between them in the Marabar Caves.\n\nThe Raj Quartet a four-volume novel sequence, written by Paul Scott, also deals with the subject of the British in India, in this case the concluding years of the British Raj in India. The series was written during the period 1965–75. \"The Times\" called it \"one of the most important landmarks of post-war fiction.\"\n\nThe story of \"The Raj Quartet\" begins in 1942. World War II is at its zenith, and in South East Asia, the Allied forces have suffered great losses. Burma has fallen, and the Japanese invasion of the Indian subcontinent from the east appears imminent. The year 1942 is also marked by Indian nationalist leader Mahatma Gandhi’s call for the Quit India movement to the British rulers of India. \"The Raj Quartet\" is set in this tumultuous background for the British soldiers and civilians stationed in India who have a duty to manage this part of the British Empire. One recurrent theme is the moral certainty of the older generation as contrasted with the anomie of the younger. Another is the racism to which this leads. To justify the racism and combat this danger of anomie and disintegration, the British characters let themselves be \"trapped by codes and principles, which were in part to keep their own fears and doubts at bay.\"\n\nThe whole of Wales was annexed by England and incorporated within the English legal system under the Laws in Wales Acts 1535–1542. Distinctive Welsh politics developed in the 19th century, and Welsh national feeling grew during the 20th century. The Welsh nationalist party, \"Plaid Cymru\", was formed in 1925 and the Welsh Language Society in 1962.\n\nSaunders Lewis (1893 – 1985), the noted Welsh language poet, novelist, dramatist, and nationalist, rejected the possibility of Anglo-Welsh literature, because of its use of English, the language of the British colonialists, affirming that '\"the literature which people called Anglo-Welsh was indistinguishable from English literature\". Saunders Lewis was himself born in Wallasey in England to a Welsh-speaking family.\n\nThe attitude of the post-war generation of Welsh writers in English towards Wales differs from the previous generation, in that they were more sympathetic to Welsh nationalism and to the Welsh language. The change can be linked to the nationalist fervour generated by Saunders Lewis and the burning of the Bombing School on the Lleyn Peninsula in 1936, along with a sense of crisis generated by World War II. In poetry R. S. Thomas (1913–2000) was the most important figure throughout the second half of the 20th century, beginning with \"The Stones of the Field\" in 1946 and concluding with \"No Truce with the Furies\" (1995). While he \"did not learn the Welsh language until he was 30 and wrote all his poems in English\", he wanted the Welsh language to be made the first language of Wales, and the official policy of bilingualism abolished. He wrote his autobiography in Welsh, but said he lacked the necessary grasp of the language to employ it in his poems. Although an Anglican priest, he was a fervent nationalist and advocated non-violent action against English owners of holiday homes in Wales. As an admirer of Saunders Lewis, Thomas defended his need to use English: \"Since there is in Wales a mother tongue that continues to flourish, a proper Welshman can only look on English as a means of rekindling interest in the Welsh language, and of leading people back to the mother tongue.\"\n\nWith the creation the National Assembly for Wales, under the Government of Wales Act 1998, Wales now has more local autonomy from the central government in England. The Welsh Language Act 1993 and the Government of Wales Act 1998 provide that the English and Welsh languages be treated on a basis of equality. English is spoken by almost all people in Wales and is the \"de facto\" main language. Northern and western Wales retain many areas where Welsh is spoken as a first language by the majority of the population, and English learnt as a second language. The 2011 Census showed 562,016 people, 19.0% of the Welsh population, were able to speak Welsh.\n\nThe English language was introduced to Ireland in the 13th century, following the Norman Conquest of Ireland. However, English rule did not extend over the whole island until the 16th–17th century Tudor conquest, which led to colonisation by settlers from Britain. In the 1690s, a system of Protestant English rule was designed to materially disadvantage the Catholic majority and Protestant dissenters, and was extended during the 18th century. The Irish language, however, remained the dominant language of Irish literature down to the 19th century, despite a slow decline which began in the 17th century with the expansion of English power.\n\nThe 17th century saw the tightening of English control over Ireland and the suppression of the traditional aristocracy. This meant that the literary class lost its patrons, since the new nobility were English speakers with little sympathy for the older culture. The elaborate classical metres lost their dominance and were largely replaced by more popular forms. This was an age of social and political tension, as expressed by the poet Dáibhí Ó Bruadair and the anonymous authors of \"Pairliment Chloinne Tomáis\", a prose satire on the aspirations of the lower classes. Prose of another sort was represented by the historical works of Geoffrey Keating (Seathrún Céitinn) and the compilation known as the \"Annals of the Four Masters\".\n\nThe consequences of these changes were seen in the 18th century. Poetry was still the dominant literary medium and its practitioners were poor scholars, often educated in the classics at local schools and schoolmasters by trade. Such writers produced polished work in popular metres for a local audience. This was particularly the case in Munster, in the south-west of Ireland, and notable names included Eoghan Rua Ó Súilleabháin and Aogán Ó Rathaille of Sliabh Luachra. A certain number of local patrons were still to be found, even in the early 19th century, and especially among the few surviving families of the Gaelic aristocracy. In the first half of the 18th century Dublin was the home of an Irish-language literary circle connected to the Ó Neachtain (Naughton) family, a group with wide-ranging Continental connections.\n\nWith the Acts of Union in 1801, Ireland became a part of the United Kingdom. The latter part of the 19th century saw a rapid replacement of Irish by English in the greater part of the country, though Irish was still an urban language, and continued to be so well into the 19th century. At the end of the 19th century, however, cultural nationalism displayed a new energy, marked by the Gaelic Revival (which encouraged a modern literature in Irish) and more generally by the Irish Literary Revival.\n\nA war of independence in the early 20th century was followed by the partition of the island, creating the Irish Free State in 1922, which became increasingly sovereign over the following decades, and Northern Ireland, which remained a part of the United Kingdom.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40578272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40578272", "title": "Royal Academy of Dutch language and literature", "text": "Royal Academy of Dutch language and literature\n\nKoninklijke Academie voor Nederlandse Taal- en Letterkunde, otherwise known as the KANTL, is an Academy established to study and promote the Dutch language in Flanders.\n\nThe Royal Academy of Dutch language and literature (abbreviated to KANTL) is a government organization which was established in 1886 by Royal Decree as Koninklijke Vlaamse Academie voor Taal- en Letterkunde (Royal Flemish Academy for language and literature).\n\nIn 1972 the name of The Royal Flemish Academy for language and literature was changed to The Royal Academy of Dutch language and literature, and in 1981 the existence of the Academy was confirmed by a decree of the Council for Cultural Affairs for the Dutch cultural community (the predecessor of the Flemish Parliament) (decree of 13 February 1980). The KANTL is now an institution of the Flemish Government.\n\nThe Academy was the first official institution of Belgium where the Dutch language was examined scientifically and to encourage coordination between scientific academic fields using the Dutch language. This ended in 1938 when the Royal Flemish Academy of Belgium for Science and the Arts and the Royal Academy of Medicine of Belgium were set up. From this point on the Academy’s power was limited to the Dutch language and its literature. To do this, it is still has an advisory function for the Flemish government. The Flemish Academy played an important role in Flemish emancipation and sent the Flemish Movement in a cultural and intellectual to a higher level. In political terms, however, the Academy is always neutral.\n\nSince 1939 The Academy consists of 30 members and 25 foreign honorary Members.\n\nThe Royal Academy of Dutch language and literature is housed in the House of Oombergen in the Koningsstraat in Ghent. The building was restored in 2012.\n\nSince its early days, the Royal Academy has issued an annual prize for what the Academy considered outstanding research and work in the Dutch language. However, since 2005 this has changed to a more general calling for those working in the field of Dutch language and literature. Thus a prize is offered for an essay, for a study on the old Dutch language, for literature, for poetry, for prose and for culture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50051138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50051138", "title": "Sheep shagger", "text": "Sheep shagger\n\nSheep shagger, also spelt sheepshagger or sheep-shagger, is a derogatory term, most often used to refer to Welsh people implying that the subject has sex with sheep. In a court case in Britain, the use of the term directed at a Welsh person was ruled to be a \"racially aggravating\" factor in a disorderly conduct offence.\n\nThe use of the term \"sheep shagger\" to refer to a Welsh person has arisen from the prevalence of sheep and sheep farming in Wales. It is often viewed as offensive in Wales, for the same reason as it is in South Africa to refer to Australians. In response to complaints over the use of phrase, in a television advertisement for Toyota, the New Zealand Advertising Standards Authority determined the phrase was not viewed as offensive to the majority of New Zealanders.\n\nAt football matches in England, supporters of Welsh teams as well as Welsh players are often called sheep shaggers in football chants from opposing fans. It is also used in Scotland to refer to supporters of Aberdeen. In 2001, Cardiff City signed English player Spencer Prior and jokingly included a contract clause that he would be obliged \"to have a physical liaison with a sheep\", in response to their fans being called sheep shaggers.\n\nThe name \"Sheep Shaggers\" has been used for at least two football fanzines – those for Bedford Town and for football in Western England.\n\nIn Prestatyn, Wales, the phrase was the subject of a 2013 court case, after Anthony Taaffe of Bolton, Greater Manchester, England, a guest at a holiday park in Gronant, called an off-duty policeman and security staff \"a bunch of sheep shaggers\". Taaffe claimed, in his defence, that the phrase was \"a term for people living in the countryside\". He also admitted a second similar offence, in which he called a police officer, at the custody unit to which he had been taken, a \"Welsh sheep shagger\". Taaffe was fined £150 after he admitted racially aggravated disorderly behaviour.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52568321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52568321", "title": "Student Initiative Rahel", "text": "Student Initiative Rahel\n\nThe Student Initiative Rahel (SIR) (German: \"Rahel-Bildungsprojekt\") is a project of the \"Institute for World Church and Mission\" (IWM) (German: \"Institut für Weltkirche und Mission\") which is a part of the Sankt Georgen Graduate School of Philosophy and Theology in Frankfurt-Sachsenhausen. The nonprofit organization supports in a scholarship youths - mostly young women - in Adigrat in the north Of Ethiopia, who are disadvantaged for various reasons, and accompanies them financially and ideally during their studies at a university or their education. The project is funded mainly by current and former students at the university. It is largely funded by donations.\n\nThe idea for the educational project was developed in 2010 during a research trip on the subject of AIDS by the then head of the IWM, Albert-Peter Rethmann. It was in the context of a research project of the \"German Bishops' Conference\" (German: \"Deutsche Bischofskonferenz\") in Adigrat in Tigray Region in northern Ethiopia. In this region, many young people have no access to higher education due to lack of family support, many are AIDS orphans. Young women are particularly affected by this situation through discrimination. An initiative of the \"Adigrat Diocesan Catholic Secretariat\" (ADCS) of the \"Ethiopian Catholic Eparchy of Adigrat\" has already supported ten young people with micro-scholarships for obtaining a university entrance qualification and at least one bachelor's degree in their own country. One of the sponsored students was the AIDS orphan Rahel Hailay. The result of the journey resulting from the trip was an international initiative of students for students in the age of globalization as an overall project.\n\nDue to personnel fluctuation among students at the Sankt Georgen Graduate School of Philosophy and Theology, the project has been phasing out slowly since the end of 2017. The tasks of the support are gradually taken over by the \"Adigrat Diocesan Catholic Secretariat\" (ADCS) and former graduates in Ethiopia.\n\nThe project supports disadvantaged, primarily female, young people in the Tigray Region who lack equal access to education for reasons of poverty or gender. The financial support consists of micro-scholarships. The scholarship holders are accompanied during their studies or education. The name of the project comes from Rahel Hailay, who completed the study of biology and zoology at the universities in Axum and Mek'ele from 2009 to 2014. By 2015 the training of 47 young Ethiopians had been made possible. Nowadays the promotion of 40 young people at the same time is possible. In addition to financial support, an important further aspect is the promotion of networking among scholarship holders and the promotion of ethical behaviour in Christian sense. Through women who are given a higher level of education through this project, others should be given the idea of achieving a higher level of education.\n\nThis development cooperation is intended to give freedom to the beneficiaries without material needs and making their lives self-responsible. An important factor for a lasting effect is, in particular, the motivation of those who want this development. Central is therefore the promotion of the autonomy and self-initiative of the scholarship holders in the sense of the Catholic social doctrine. The initiative of the students from Germany can serve as a model for the students in Ethiopia. It is possible that the project will in the future develop into an Ethiopian alumni project where graduates who are in work assist other young people in their education.\n\nAs a secondary effect, training programs such as the Rahel project are also a medium to long-term contribution to the fight against become a refugee due to lack of education and resulting poverty.\n\nThe educational project is financed through public donations and campaigns, such as at the Frankfurter Stadtkirchenfest at \"Frankfurt Cathedral\" (German: \"Kaiserdom St. Bartholomäus\"), collects in Catholic church parishes and the \"Centre for Christian Meditation and Spirituality of the Diocese of Limburg\", as well as the salvation of festivities such as the summer festival of the \"Sankt Georgen Graduate School of Philosophy and Theology\" with an Ethiopian coffee ceremony, auctions and other revenues. In addition, these actions also serve to create new contacts, information and exchange on the project. There is a special purpose for the missio donation bank account for transfers to the Rahel project. These actions are also supported by the \"Network of Frankfurt One World Groups\" in Frankfurt. In addition to the internet, media such as the \"Radio Horeb\" also include public relations activities.\n\nThe Rachel educational project is funded by the \"Cusanuswerk\", a gifted support program under the supervision of the \"Catholic German Bishops' Conference\" and by the \"Center for Christian Meditation and Spirituality of the Diocese of Limburg\".\n\nThe project is supported by the \"Pontifical Mission Societies\" (German: \"missio\") in all financial matters, such as account management, the administrative costs or the transfer of money to Ethiopia. In Ethiopia the project is supervised locally by the \"Adigrat Diocesan Catholic Secretariat\" (ADCS) of the \"Ethiopian Catholic Eparchy of Adigrat\" under the patronage of the diocesan bishop Tesfay Medhin within the framework of the \"OVC project\" (\"Orphans and Vulnerable Children\"). The \"OVC project\" is active in the areas of Adigrat and other areas particularly affected by poverty. The project manager of the ADCS Woldemariam Besirat selects the scholarship holders and organizes religious education workshops on scholarship meetings with their own and external lecturers on topics such as AIDS, the consequences of emigration as refugees or on other medical or ethical issues. In addition to financial support, the promotion of self-reliance, self-confidence and self-esteem, the promotion of self-responsibility, the awareness of responsibility and the ability to work together are important aspects of the work of the OVC project.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9388094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9388094", "title": "Syphon Filter (video game)", "text": "Syphon Filter (video game)\n\nSyphon Filter is a third-person shooter stealth video game developed by Eidetic and published by 989 Studios for PlayStation. It is the first game in the \"Syphon Filter\" series, the plot centres on special agents Gabriel \"Gabe\" Logan and Lian Xing who are tasked by the United States government to apprehend an international terrorist from Germany.\n\nDevelopment on \"Syphon Filter\" began with the intention of creating a new \"super-spy\" genre hybrid that contained elements of stealth-action and puzzle solving. The game was almost cancelled several times during development as Eidetic faced many difficulties due to the lack of inspiration from others and their inexperience in creating video games. Despite the initial drawbacks faced, \"Syphon Filter\" was met with positive reviews from critics upon release, mostly directed at its innovation and immersive plot.\n\nThe game is presented in a third-person perspective, and the player can freely move in three-dimensional space and rotate the camera in any direction. The top left corner of the screen interface shows the status of Logan's armour, a 'danger-meter' which rises as the player engages enemies through combat, and a target lock. A radar is displayed in the bottom left corner of the screen which shows the location of various objects including friendly units, enemies, weapon pick ups or mission objectives. The current weapon equipped is always displayed in the bottom right corner, with the ammunition count. Depending on the weapon used, the camera will shift to first-person mode to assist in aiming.\n\nThe core of the gameplay is focused on stealth-based tactics, which require one to silently take out enemies using silenced weapons or other lethal attacks. However, most of the game is action-orientated, which involves Logan navigating through levels whilst shooting enemies. The game takes place in a wide variety of locations, including narrow interior streets of Washington D.C. to wide open plains of Kazakhstan. In some stealth based missions, the game will involve various puzzles. Some locations feature low light ambience, which force the player to use their flashlight despite its drawbacks imposed during stealth missions.\n\nIn the year 1999, Gabriel Logan and his partner Lian Xing investigate a series of biological outbreaks triggered by international terrorist Erich Rhoemer. When fellow agent Ellis loses contact during a mission in Costa Rica, the top-secret Agency dispatches Gabe and Lian to find him. They discover Ellis is dead, and Rhoemer's suspected drug operation is a cover for the viral operation. Another outbreak in Nepal leads to more questions when an infected person who should have died somehow survived.\n\nBefore the Agency can pursue Rhoemer, he assaults Washington, D.C. and threatens to detonate viral bombs scattered across the city. Gabe battles several terrorists, including Mara Aramov, as he follows the trail of bombs across city streets, subways, Washington Park and finally Freedom Memorial where he must incinerate munitions expert Anton Girdeux to stop the final threat.\n\nGabe's investigation takes him to a new lead from PharCom, a multinational pharmaceutical and biotechnology corporation headed by Jonathan Phagan. The Costa Rican plantation was growing PharCom compounds, meaning Phagan and Rhoemer were cooperating. At the PharCom Exposition Center, Gabe shadows Phagan to a meeting with Aramov and Edward Benton, an apparent Agency turncoat who assisted Rhoemer during the Washington D.C. attack.\n\nAfter Gabe eliminates Benton, he saves Phagan from assassination only to have him escape. Mara Aramov, now in custody, had attempted to locate PharCom's virus labs. Gabe must set aside the hunt for Phagan to destroy Rhoemer's base in Kazakhstan. During his assignment, Rhoemer seemingly kills Lian, but Agency Director Thomas Markinson rescues Gabe.\n\nMarkinson gives Gabe a report on the virus called Syphon Filter, a bioweapon that one can program on a genetic level to target specific groups of people. Markinson orders Gabe to infiltrate Rhoemer's stronghold in Ukraine to inject test subjects with a vaccine and locate Phagan, who is now Rhoemer's prisoner. In the catacombs, Phagan tells Gabe that Lian is alive, and they reunite. Lian has become infected with Syphon Filter, and she says there is no universal cure.\n\nMara Aramov arrives to shoot Phagan, but she convinces Gabe and Lian that she came to help. The three travel to PharCom's warehouses in hopes of preventing Rhoemer from launching a missile. Lian reveals that the serum Gabe injected into the test subjects was really a lethal chemical, and Markinson was having them killed. Using the fighting between Rhoemer's terrorists and Phagan's security personnel to cover his insertion, Gabe descends into a silo and searches for the missile's detonation codes.\n\nHe finds Markinson, who admits that the Agency was in fact in cahoots with Black Baton all along. Rhoemer worked for Markinson, since the latter wanted the virus in the Agency's possession. He never authorized the missile attack, but before he can stop it, Rhoemer kills Markinson with a headshot. Gabe must reach the missile's control center in time and destroy it. Enraged, Rhoemer engages Gabe in a final fight, but is killed with a gas grenade.\n\nTheir mission completed, Gabe and Lian call in the U.S. Army Chemical and Biological Defense Command (CBDC) to secure the area. They do not know how far Markinson was cooperating with Rhoemer and Phagan, but Gabe believes they may never know. In a post-credits scene, Aramov approaches a mysterious man inside the Agency headquarters and whispers something in his ear. He congratulates her while the camera pulls back to show PharCom boxes in the office.\n\nAccording to creative director John Garvin, \"Syphon Filter\" was originally conceived as \"just a name\" from a producer at 989 Studios. Initially, there was no plot, character or gameplay from the original one page synopsis. Eidetic decided to set \"Syphon Filter\" as a new 'stealth-action' hybrid that focused heavily on weapons, gadgets and stealth. The team's lead designer was influenced over Rare's successful \"GoldenEye 007\" for the Nintendo 64, and implemented the game's mechanics to have a similar feel for a new \"super spy\" genre.\n\nThe team experienced immense difficulty in creating the game, as Garvin noted that there were \"no, or few, games\" from which Eidetic could draw inspiration. Most of the team that developed \"Syphon Filter\" had little experience with making third-person action games, as Eidetic's only video game released for a console was \"Bubsy 3D\", which was released three years prior for the PlayStation and was infamous for being critically panned as one of the worst games of all time. Despite the initial difficulties with staff and lack of experience, Eidetic produced a prototype which involved a shooting segment in an underground. Garvin admitted that the team \"didn't know anything about making realistic shooters set in a spy world\" as the game came close to being cancelled several times throughout development because the team was missing deadlines, revamping mechanics and changing the story. During development, the team of thirteen re-wrote several drafts as the game was being conceived. The original plot of \"Syphon Filter\" was intended as a science-fiction orientated approach and involved a group of kidnapped scientists who were being forced to build a time machine by an unspecified antagonistic organisation. The storyline was radically changed when John Garvin was hired to be art director, later creative director.\n\n\"Syphon Filter\" received \"critical acclaim\" reviews, according to video game review aggregator Metacritic. \"Edge\" stated that, although the game borrows elements from both \"GoldenEye 007\" and \"Metal Gear Solid\" and that \"the execution could have been better accomplished, Eidetic [introduced] a few ideas of its own, and these go a long way towards providing the game with its own identity.\" The blend of a stealth-action hybrid gameplay was praised by most critics. Doug Perry of IGN enjoyed the implemented skill-based action that he considered was \"hard to come by in a PlayStation game\". Perry praised the game's detail and advanced graphics, but criticised the low resolution and noting that the game's frame rate was \"not perfect\". Despite this, he noted that what \"Syphon Filter\" \"gives up in frame rate [it] provides in character and environment detail\".\n\nGame Revolution similarly praised the attention to detail, calling every texture of the game \"well planned and rendered\". However, they claimed that the graphics were not as good as \"Metal Gear Solid\". They also noted that during some points the game \"suffers from many typical PlayStation polygonal errors\", causing some textures to become \"warped\" when viewed from an angle, although they noted that glitches were uncommon and did not affect gameplay in any way.\n\nThe gameplay and artificial intelligence were the most praised aspects of the game. Game Revolution noted the gameplay was \"well above average\" and had an excellent replay value, in contrast to games such as \"Star Fox 64\" once completed. Perry praised the game's wide variety of weapons and gadgets, having counted at least thirty different weapons and equipment for the player to use, with the added bonus of secret weapons, adding to the gameplay value. Game Revolution added that the AI was \"perhaps the best part of the game\", commending on how certain enemies react on when one of their comrades are killed nearby. IGN similarly praised its AI, pointing out on how every time a level is played the AI would change its behaviour, sometimes hiding behind trees or carrying different weapons.\n\nDue to its popularity, Sony commissioned 989 Studios to make various sequels and spin-offs to the game. \"Syphon Filter 2\" was released in 2000 to popular reviews from critics, and another direct sequel, \"Syphon Filter 3\" was released in 2001 to mixed reviews upon release. Two spin-offs were released for the PlayStation Portable in 2006 and 2007; \"\" and \"\", respectively. A port to the PlayStation 2 for \"Logan's Shadow\" was released exclusively in North America in 2010. The two spin-offs were met with mixed to positive reviews from critics, which led to the end of the \"Syphon Filter\" series in 2007.\n"}
{"id": "55776116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55776116", "title": "Ten Medieval Commentators", "text": "Ten Medieval Commentators\n\nThe Ten Medieval Commentators (Tamil: உரையாசிரியர்கள் பதின்மர்) were a canonical group of Tamil scholars whose commentaries on the ancient Indian didactic work of the Kural are esteemed by later scholars as worthy of critical analysis. These poets lived in the Medieval era between 10th century CE and 13th century CE. Among these medieval commentaries, the commentaries of Manakkudavar and Parimelalhagar are considered pioneer by modern scholars.\n\nThe Kural remains the most reviewed work of the Tamil literature, with almost every scholar down the ages having written commentaries on it. Of the several hundred commentaries written on the didactic work over the centuries, the commentaries written by a group of ten medieval scholars are considered to have high literary value. The ten poets are:\n\nOf these, only the commentaries of Manakkudavar, Paridhi, Pariperumal, Kaalingar, and Parimelalhagar are extant in their complete (or almost complete) form. The commentaries of Dharumar, Dhamatthar, and Nacchar have survived only in fragmentary form, and those of Thirumalaiyar and Mallar are now lost completely. The oldest of these is the commentary of Manakkudavar, which is considered to be the closest to the original text of the Kural, and is considered the cornerstone against which other medieval commentaries are compared in order to find variations in them. Each commentators followed his own sense of logic in the arrangement of the chapters and the couplets within them. Researchers have found as many as 16, 20, 120, and 171 variations in the ordering of the Kural couplets by Pari Perumal, Paridhi, Parimelazhagar, and Kaalingar, respectively, with respect to the commentary by Manakkudavar. According to M. Shanmugham Pillai, there are about 305 textual variations in all the commentaries combined. The last of these medieval commentaries is that of Parimelalhagar, who wrote the commentary around 1271–1272 CE, as indicated in an inscription at the Varadharaja Perumal Temple at Kanchipuram. Parimelalhagar's commentary is followed ever since as the standard for numbering of the Kural chapters and the couplets within each chapter.\n\nValluvar wrote the Kural literature in three parts, namely, Book I, Book II, and Book III, containing a total of 133 chapters in all, without splitting the books further into any subdivisions. However, later scholars both from the Late Sangam period and from the medieval era divided each book into various divisions known as \"Iyal\" and grouped the chapters variously under each \"iyal\"s. They also changed the ordering of the couplets within each chapter widely. These variations are not absolute either but vary according to different commentators. While the variations in the ordering of the couplets according to various commentators are found across the work, variations in the grouping and ordering of chapters are found only in the Book on Virtue (Book I).\n\nThe following table lists the variations between ordering of chapters in Book I by Manakkudavar (the oldest) and that by Parimelalhagar (the latest).\n\nThe chapters “Shunning meat-eating,” “Not stealing,” “Not lying,” “Refraining from anger,” “Ahimsa,” and “Non-killing” appearing under subsection “Domestic virtues” in Manakkudavar’s version appear under “Ascetic virtues” in Parimelalhagar’s version. Similarly, the chapters “Kindness of speech,” “Self-control,” “Not envying,” “Not coveting another’s goods,” “Not backbiting,” and “Not uttering useless words” appearing under “Ascetic virtue” in Manakkudavar’s version appear under “Domestic virtue” in Parimelalhagar’s version.\n\nAn old Tamil poem describes all these ten commentators thus:\n\n"}
{"id": "27939923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27939923", "title": "The Ecstasy of St. Cecilia (Raphael)", "text": "The Ecstasy of St. Cecilia (Raphael)\n\nThe St. Cecilia Altarpiece is an oil painting by Italian High Renaissance painter Raphael. Completed in his later years, around 1516-1517, the painting depicts Saint Cecilia, the patron saint of musicians and Church music, listening to a choir of angels in the company of St. Paul, St. John the Evangelist, St. Augustine and Mary Magdalene. Commissioned for a church in Bologna, the painting now hangs there in the Pinacoteca Nazionale, or National Painting Gallery. According to Vasari the musical instruments strewn about Cecilia's feet were not painted by Raphael, but by his student, Giovanni da Udine.\n\nEnglish Romantic poet Percy Shelley described the painting as follows:\nThe central figure, St. Cecilia, seems rapt in such inspiration as produced her image in the painter's mind; her deep, dark, eloquent eyes lifted up; her chestnut hair flung back from her forehead — she holds an organ in her hands — her countenance, as it were, calmed by the depth of its passion and rapture, and penetrated throughout with the warm and radiant light of life. She is listening to the music of heaven, and, as I imagine, has just ceased to sing, for the four figures that surround her evidently point, by their attitudes, towards her; particularly St. John, who, with a tender yet impassioned gesture, bends his countenance towards her, languid with the depth of emotion. At her feet lie various instruments of music, broken and unstrung.\n\nThe altarpiece was commissioned for a chapel dedicated to St. Cecilia at the Augustinian church of San Giovanni in Monte in Bologna. According to Vasari the work was commissioned by Cardinal Lorenzo Pucci in 1513. Given the extraordinary popularity of the painter at this time in his career, it is likely that only such a highly placed church authority could have had any hope of hiring him. The patron of the chapel itself, however, was Elena Duglioli dall'Olio, an aristocratic Bolognese woman who would later be beatified for her piety. She was a close friend of Antonio Pucci, Cardinal Lorenzo's nephew, and most art historians today agree that the Pucci must have served as her agents and advisers with Raphael and that the painting was more likely commissioned for her around 1516, when construction on the chapel was completed. Duglioli had a particular devotion to the cult of St. Cecilia and had been given a relic (her knucklebone) by the papal legate to Bologna, Cardinal Francesco Alidosi. She struggled to live a chaste life in emulation of the early Christian saint and persuaded her husband not to consummate their marriage.\n\nThe painting was looted to Paris in 1798. While there, it was transferred to canvas. In 1815, the painting was returned to Bologna where, after cleaning, and was hung in the Pinacoteca Nazionale di Bologna. The painting's condition is poor, as it has been damaged by repainting over the years.\n\nSt. Cecilia's companions are identified in part by their attributes. Immediately to her right, John the Evangelist has an eagle, his usual symbol, peeking out around his robes. Beside him, Paul leans on the sword with which he had come to be identified in medieval art. Augustine of Hippo holds his crosier. Mary Magdalene holds the alabaster jar by which she is most commonly identified.\n\nThe iconography of the altarpiece is unusual in that rather than portraying a figure or figures to be worshipped, it represents the act of worship itself. Each of the saints was associated with visions - as was Elena Duglioni herself - and the celestial choir that opens above the saints' heads is closely associated with the patron's own devotions, in which music was an important element. Cecilia was associated with music from the Middle Ages, but the broken instruments here appear to refer to the abandonment of earthly pleasures that resulted from Cecilia's devotion to the sacred. In this painting she personifies religious music as a route to union with God.\n\nThe painting further celebrates the theme of chastity. St. Cecilia's simple belt is a traditional Renaissance symbol for chastity; John the Evangelist was the patron saint of virginity; and Paul praised celibacy in I Corinthians. Thus the painting's iconography is closely tied to the life of the patron on many levels.\n\nThere is an engraving of the painting by Marcantonio Raimondi: it differs significantly from the work, and some scholars have suggested that it reflects a lost sketch for the altarpiece. In it Raphael depicted the angels with instruments as well — harp, triangle and violin — and the figures are in very different poses. Augustine (wearing his mitre) and Paul look downward; John looks out towards the viewer; the Magdalene looks upward to the angelic host, as Cecilia does. Raimondi's engravings are frequently known to alter Raphael's works, however, so it is not impossible that it represents a free variant of the finished altarpiece rather than a copy of a sketch of Raphael's initial intentions.\n\n"}
{"id": "52169921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52169921", "title": "The International Academy for Systems and Cybernetic Sciences", "text": "The International Academy for Systems and Cybernetic Sciences\n\nThe International Academy for Systems and Cybernetic Sciences (IASCYS) is an honor society initially created by the International Federation for Systems Research (IFSR). The academy identifies outstanding scientists in systems and cybernetics and elects them as academicians. The members of the Academy conduct workshops and speak at conferences about advances in the field.\n\nIn 2010, the International Federation for Systems Research established an international non-profit association called The International Academy for Systems and Cybernetic Sciences. For 6 years the IASCYS was governed as an IFSR partner organization, but in 2016 it became an independent organization having its own statutes, rules of procedure and membership criteria.\n\nIASCYS was founded to honor and activate outstanding members of the systems and cybernetics community. The fields of systems and cybernetics emphasize a holistic perspective, thus we help people create points of view that describe more of the variety in the world, and thus our work bridges and fills the spaces between the descriptions from traditional sciences. Systems science and cybernetics, in both theory and application, facilitate transdisciplinary cooperation leading to insights into synergies and generalizations and the creation of methods for coping with situations that the traditional sciences fail to cover. Thus, the otherwise resulting oversights are replaced by new insights. These intellectual endeavors help people as individuals, their organizations, and humankind to attain a more complete appreciation, through perception, thinking, emotional and spiritual life, decision making, communication, and action, and therefore to attain more success and well being. Academicians are nominated by an association in the field. Biographies of IASCYS members are published on the IASCYS web-site.\n\nNational and international academies of sciences and arts previously did not include the contributions of systems and cybernetics in their list of sciences and arts. This situation overlooks the contributions which these fields have made to many traditional fields. IASCYS was created to build bridges among the member associations, to identify the most qualified scientists and practitioners in the field in order to invite them as keynote speakers to conferences, to recognize systems and cybernetics as sciences equal to other sciences, and to create links among the leading members of the systems and cybernetics community with the intent to aid and promote the development of these fields.\n\nTwo missions of the IASCYS are, through coordination of the actions of the member associations, to create an internationally accepted curriculum in systems and cybernetics and to create an auditing process aimed at validation and promotion of education in systems and cybernetics.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30631716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30631716", "title": "Theory of generations", "text": "Theory of generations\n\nTheory of generations (or sociology of generations) is a theory posed by Karl Mannheim in his 1928 essay, \"Das Problem der Generationen,\" and translated into English in 1952 as \"The Problem of Generations.\" This essay has been described as \"the most systematic and fully developed\" and even \"the seminal theoretical treatment of generations as a sociological phenomenon\". According to Mannheim, people are significantly influenced by the socio-historical environment (in particular, notable events that involve them actively) of their youth; giving rise, on the basis of shared experience, to social cohorts that in their turn influence events that shape future generations. Because of the historical context in which Mannheim wrote, some critics contend that the theory of generations centers around Western ideas and lacks a broader cultural understanding. Others argue that the theory of generations should be global in scope, due to the increasingly globalized nature of contemporary society.\n\nMannheim defined a generation (note that some have suggested that the term cohort is more correct, to distinguish social generations from the kinship (family, blood-related generations) as a group of individuals of similar ages whose members have experienced a noteworthy historical event within a set period of time. \n\nAccording to Mannheim, social consciousness and perspective of youth reaching maturity in a particular time and place (what he termed \"generational location\") is significantly influenced by the major historical events of that era (thus becoming a \"generation in actuality\"). A key point, however, is that this major historical event has to occur, and has to involve the individuals in their young age (thus shaping their lives, as later experiences will tend to receive meaning from those early experiences); a mere chronological contemporaneity is not enough to produce a common generational consciousness. Mannheim in fact stressed that not every generation will develop an original and distinctive consciousness. Whether a generation succeeds in developing a distinctive consciousness is significantly dependent on the pace of social change (\"tempo of change\"). \n\nMannheim notes also that social change can occur gradually, without the need for major historical events, but those events are more likely to occur in times of accelerated social and cultural change. Mannheim did also note that the members of a generation are internally stratified (by their location, culture, class, etc.), thus they may view different events from different angles and thus are not totally homogenous. Even with the \"generation in actuality\", there may be differing forms of response to the particular historical situation, thus stratifying by a number of \"generational units\" (or \"social generations\").\n\nMannheim's theory of generations has been applied to explain how important historical, cultural, and political events of the late 1950s and the early 1960s educated youth (of the Baby Boom Generation) of the inequalities in American society, such as their involvement along with other generations in the Civil Rights Movement, and have given rise to a belief that those inequalities need to be changed by individual and collective action. This has pushed an influential minority of young people in the United States toward social movement activity. On the other hand, the generation which came of age in the later part of the 1960s and 1970s was much less engaged in social movement activity, because - according to the theory of generations - the events of that era were more conducive to a political orientation stressing individual fulfillment instead of participation in such social movements questioning the \"status quo\". Social generation studies mainly focus on the youth experience from the perspective of the Western society. \"Social generations theory lacks ample consideration of youth outside of the west. Increased empirical attention to non-Western cases corrects the tendency of youth studies to 'other' non-Western youth and provides a more in-depth understanding of the dynamics of reflexive life management.\" The constraints and opportunities affecting a youth's experiences within particular sociopolitical contexts require research to be done in a wide array of spaces to better reflect the theory and its implications on youth's experiences. \n\n"}
{"id": "3162270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3162270", "title": "Tour guide", "text": "Tour guide\n\n\"\n\nA tour guide (U.S.) or a tourist guide (European) is a person who provides assistance, information on cultural, historical and contemporary heritage to people on organized tours and individual clients at educational establishments, religious and historical sites, museums, and at venues of other significant interest , attractions sites.\n\nIn 18th-century Japan, a traveler could pay for a tour guide or consult guide books such as Kaibara Ekken's \"Keijō Shōran\" (The Excellent Views of Kyoto).\n\nThe CEN (European Committee for Standardization) definition for \"tourist guide\" – part of the work by CEN on definitions for terminology within the tourism industry – is a \"person who guides visitors in the language of their choice and interprets the cultural and natural heritage of an area, which person normally possesses an area-specific qualification usually issued and/or recognized by the appropriate authority\". CEN also defines a \"to manager\" as a \"person who manages and supervises the itinerary on behalf of the tour operator, ensuring the programme is carried out as described in the tour operator's literature and sold to the traveller/consumer and who gives local practical information\".\n\nIn Europe, tourist guides are represented by FEG, the European Federation of Tourist Guide Associations. In Europe, the tourist guiding qualification is specific to each and every country; in some cases the qualification is national, in some cases it is broken up into regions. In all cases it is embedded in the educational and training ethic of that country. EN15565 is a European Standard for the Training and Qualification of Tourist Guides.\n\nIn Australia, tour guides are qualified to a minimum of Certificate III Guiding. They belong to a couple of organisations, notably the \"Professional Tour Guide Association of Australia\" [PTGAA] and \"Guides of Australia\" [GOA].\n\nIn Japan, tour guides are required to pass a certification exam by the Commissioner of the Japan Tourism Agency and register with the relevant prefectures. Non-licensed guides caught performing guide-interpreter activities can face a fine up to 500,000 Yen\n\nIn India its mandatory to own the license approved by the Ministry of Tourism (India) to work officially as a tourist guide. The government provides the license to regional level tour guide and also runs a Regional Level Guide Training Program (RLGTP). These programs and training sessions are conducted under the guidance of Indian Institute of Tourism and Travel Management (IITTM) or other government recognized institutes.\n\n3. Qualities of a tour guide : travel expert in travel industry\n\nNotes\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1115593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1115593", "title": "United States Department of Defense aerospace vehicle designation", "text": "United States Department of Defense aerospace vehicle designation\n\nA United States Department of Defense aerospace vehicle designation is determined by a detailed protocol which identifies all aircraft, helicopters, rockets, missiles, spacecraft, and other aerial vehicles in military use by the United States Armed Forces.\n\n\nThe current United States Department of Defense system for naming and designating aircraft aims to provide a unified system across all services that applies to all military aerial and space craft. There are two basic components to a craft's identity: its designation, and its common name.\n\nA vehicle designation is sometimes referred to as a Mission Design Series (MDS), referring to the three main parts of the designation, that combine to form a unique profile for each vehicle. The first series of letters (up to four) determine the type of craft and designed mission. A series number identifies major types which are of the same type and mission, and finally a series of variant and block identifiers clarify the exact configuration of the vehicle.\n\nThe name is a matter of less specific construction, but is aimed at providing an official common name which eases identification and communication regarding the vehicle. The common name is not used in internal publications (an official internal report would refer to the \"F-16\" and \"AIM-9\" but not mention the names \"Fighting Falcon\" or \"Sidewinder\"). Pilots often have their own nicknames for their aircraft which may bear only coincidental resemblance (if that) to the official common name, although some pilot nicknames are similar or even derived from the official common name (such as \"Bug\" and \"Super Bug\" for the F/A-18 Hornet and F/A-18E/F Super Hornet).\n\nThe current regulations and procedures relating to employing this system are laid out in DoD and branch documents, including Air Force Joint Instruction 16-401 , and are not classified. These regulations replaced the previous regulations which were originally introduced in 1962 (See 1962 United States Tri-Service aircraft designation system).\n\nThere are 10 potential components of a system's designation, comprising the three basic parts of the designation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nStatus prefix is an optional prefix not often used for vehicles in regular service. If used, it is the first letter in the MDS. Authorized current status prefixes are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMany craft have been designed for more specific missions than their basic mission symbol would indicate, and many design series have been designed for different missions than the original design, and may or may not still maintain capability for the original mission. The modified mission symbol provides the services the ability to accurately indicate a craft's mission without losing commonality with the basic design MDS. If utilized, the modified mission symbol is placed directly in front of the basic mission symbol. Modified mission symbols are not used for rockets and missiles. Currently authorized modified mission symbols are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe basic mission symbol is the heart of the mission part of the designation. No designation is without it, and some designations consist of only a basic mission symbol for the mission part, such as the F-14 or C-130. The following are the officially authorized basic mission symbols:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFor non-standard vehicle types (vehicles other than piloted, fixed-wing and self-propelled aircraft which are wholly supported by aerodynamic lift from liftoff to touchdown), a final symbol is added after the basic mission symbol to identify the vehicle type. Current applicable symbols are as follow:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAll rockets and missiles contain a symbol to indicate the launch method, be it from the air, ground, sea, etc. The following are the currently authorized symbols for launch environments. These are not used for other aerospace vehicles.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nRockets and missiles are assigned a single mission symbol, which usually denotes the intended target type of the missile. For most types of missile, the combination of launch environment and mission symbols form a from-to combination (surface-to-air, ship-to-submarine) that gives one a good idea of the potential uses for the missile.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nFor rockets and missiles, the vehicle type symbol identifies the basic vehicle type and will be the final symbol in the mission part of the MDS.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10704790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10704790", "title": "Walkabout (magazine)", "text": "Walkabout (magazine)\n\nWalkabout was an Australian illustrated magazine published from 1934 to 1974 combining cultural, geographic, and scientific content with travel literature. Initially a travel magazine, in its forty-year run it featured a popular mix of articles by travellers, officials, residents, journalists, naturalists, anthropologists and novelists, illustrated by Australian photojournalists. Its title derived from the supposed ‘racial characteristic of the Australian aboriginal who is always on the move\".\n\n Ostensibly and initially a travel and geographic magazine published by the Australian National Travel Association (formed in 1929), \"Walkabout : Australia and the South Seas\" was named by ANTA director Charles Holmes. In its first issue of 1 Nov 1934, the editorial, signed by Charles (Chas) Lloyd Jones, chair of the board of David Jones and acting chairman of the Australian National Travel Association (ANTA), proclaimed its aim to educate its readers;\nThe income the Association derived from magazine sales provided for its other activities in promoting tourism, 'to place Australia on the world's travel map and keep it there.' It was assertively Australian in its ethos but took cues from other popular magazines of the period, such as the United States' \"National Geographic Magazine,\" and \"LIFE.\"\n\nFrom August 1946, \"Walkabout\" also doubled as the official journal of the newly formed Australian Geographical Society (AGS), founded with a ₤5,000 grant from ANTA, its banner subscript reading 'Journal of the Australian Geographical Society'. This role is now filled by \"Australian Geographic\" magazine. Later it became ‘Australia's Way of Life Magazine’ when supported by the Australian National Publicity Association and later the Australian Tourist Commission.\n\nCharles Holmes was Walkabout’s founding managing editor, retiring in August 1957. From June 1936 he was paid £250 p.a. and C. S. Weetman was appointed associate editor at £100, with their allowances coming from the magazine's income and being conditional on its profitability. Basil Atkinson was editor until January 1960; then Graham Tucker followed by film critic and photojournalist Brian McArdle (1920-1968) from January 1961. In the following financial year subscribers to Walkabout came from 91 different countries. Under a new banner 'Australia's Way of Life Magazine' (after November 1961), modern dynamic layouts in a larger format (27 x 33 cm) and more lively captioning saw a brief peak in circulation to 50,000 in 1967 in response to more liberal human-interest and cultural content. McArdle consciously emulated the American \"Life\" magazine (1936-1972) and the French \"Réalités\" (1946-1979). In the 1960s the magazine spawned a number of book-length illustrated anthologies. After McArdle's illness and death, John Ross took on the editorship in December 1969 with various others filling the role, and the magazine format was reduced to 20 x 27.5 cm until it ceased publication in 1974.\n\nWriters included some of Australia's most significant authors, novelists, journalists and commentators: \nWestern Australian writer Henrietta Drake-Brockman originated the ‘Our Authors’ Page’, a full-page feature on a leading writer, which was given a leading position in each issue opposite the table of contents between 1950 and 1953.\n\nA book review column ran almost continuously from 1953—1971 under the byline ‘Scrutarius’ (who was journalist H. C. (Peter) Fenton), totalling almost 200 columns and which reviewed usually four books per issue. The magazine thus provided a showcase of diverse Australian literature to a mostly 'middlebrow' audience that was otherwise ill-served by other periodicals and newspapers.\n\nANTA recognised that the magazine it intended to publish would only be successful if it were well illustrated. Its 16th board meeting, held in Sydney in May 1934, passed a motion to employ a staff photographer for the purposes of improving \"the quality of 'arresting pictures' that were being forwarded to overseas papers and magazines\". Roy Dunstan, a Victorian Railways employee who was possibly known to the first editor Holmes, since both worked for the railways, was appointed on a salary of £9 per week with all expenses paid, increased to £10 per week from 1 September 1938.\n\n\"Walkabout\" became an outlet for, and promoter of, Australian photojournalism. Stories were liberally illustrated each with up to fifteen quarter-, half- and full-page photographs in black and white, and from the 1960s, sepia and colour photographs. (Walkabout also sponsored a national artistic and aesthetic photography competition in 1957 with a One Hundred Pound first prize). The original photography segment was later called \"Our Cameraman's Walkabout\", \"Australia and the South Pacific in Pictures\" (briefly including New Zealand in the title), \"Australia in Pictures\", \"Camera Supplement\" and after 1961, \"Australian Scene\". It began with as many as 23 photographs spread over 6-8 pages, but dropped to 6-10 photographs in the 1960s. The segment was often devoted to a single topic and in the 1960s to single-topic double-page spreads.\n\nSignificant Australian photographers included in its pages were; \nPhotographs from Walkabout are indexed online at the National Library of Australia\n\nThe cover of the first issue of \"Walkabout\" featured a silhouette of an Aboriginal man taken (on Palm Island) by German-born British photographer Emil Otto Hoppé (1878–1972) who in 1930 was commissioned to document Australia’s ‘true spirit’ and toured extensively throughout the country, including Tasmania. Otherwise, the first edition includes no articles specifically on Aborigines but in accounting for the magazine’s name, it connected the magazine with an Aboriginal heritage:\n\n\"Walkabout\"s early to mid-century stance on depiction of Indigenous Australians was generally conservative, patronising, romantic, often racist and stereotyped, though mixed with some informed commentary and genuine concern (misguided and otherwise), in a reflection of the then prevailing national attitudes. Most issues were inclusive of Aborigines in photo spreads, more typically of Aborigines in so-called traditional poses or settings.\n\nAn instance (see: \"The Language of Tourism\") was Roy Dunstan's full-length portrait entitled \"Jimmy\" of 1935, standing heroically with a spear and gazing to the distance. 'Jimmy' was Gwoya Jungarai, a Walbiri man, but when his image, cropped to head and shoulders, appeared on the 1950 Australian stamp it was captioned just 'Aborigine'. Though belatedly named in an editorial essay, the deprecating moniker 'One Pound Jimmy' stuck.\n\nHowever stereotyped or cursory such inclusions might have been, they did promote an understanding of an enduring and significant Aboriginal presence, and of a rich cultural heritage. Specialist essays, written for a general audience, covered topics including: Aboriginal art; black trackers; the peoples of the Torres Strait Islands and Groote Eylandt; missions; Aboriginal bird and place names; Aboriginal weapons and tools; poetry and ritual; the skills and division of labour in fishing, hunting and gathering activities; foodstuffs; Aboriginal pastoral workers; and sea craft.\n\nIon Idriess, Mary Durack and Ernestine Hill in their frequent writings for the magazine present complex and ambivalent attitudes to the indigenous. Despite their familiarity with Aborigines, they saw them as ‘vanishing’ due to unexplained causes and agencies of which even Aborigines themselves were ignorant, and an insufficient birth rate to sustain their population, explained as an instinctual ‘racial suicide’.\n\nConversely, regular contributor Bill Harney, cattleman, former patrol officer and protector of Aborigines and father of Wardaman elder Bill Yidumduma Harney, penned sixteen articles over 1947–57 presenting an experienced and sympathetic view of the Aboriginal peoples of Australia’s Northern Territory alongside whom he worked and lived.\n\nAnthropologists Ronald Berndt and Frederick McCarthy contributed learned articles, mostly on cultural artefacts. Ursula McConnel's three articles, all in successive issues during 1936 and drawn from fieldwork she had undertaken in Cape York from 1927 to 1934, provided particular insights into the impact on Aborigines experiencing the transition from traditional practices to mission life, frankly identifying ideological failures of policy by the missions' and government administrations and advancing several remedies to the damage she saw being caused to Aboriginal lives and cultures by 'civilisation'. Early articles by anthropologist Donald Thomson were based on his fieldwork in Cape York, northeast Arnhem Land and the Great Sandy Desert, and from 1949 he also contributed a series of ‘Nature Diaries’ on Australian flora and fauna, but he also expressed passionate advocacy for Aborigines out of his frustration with how Aborigines were treated and general contempt for them as little but savages, and his sympathy and deep respect for them and their cultures, writing that he ‘felt that [he] had more in common with these splendid and virile natives than with my own people’.\n\nThe magazine reviewed more enlightened literature as early as 1952, including poet Roland Robinson’s studies of traditional Aboriginal knowledge \"Legend and Dreaming as related to Roland Robinson by Men of the Djauan, Rimberunga, Mungarai-Ngalarkan and Yungmun Tribes of Arnhem Land (1952, with a foreword by A. P. Elkin)\" and children’s literature dealing with indigenous subjects, such as Rex Ingamells’s \"Aranda Boy\" (1952), the latter being praised for its readability and its politics in showing \"that the Australian aboriginal is not merely a 'native'.”. In the column 'Our Authors' James Devaney’s popular historical novel \"The Vanished Tribes\" (1929), is described as ‘the first really successful treatment in creative prose of our Aboriginal theme, but it is as vitally human and beautifully written a book as we possess’.\n\nBy the sixties outrage in the Australian community at the injustice of apartheid in South Africa and consciousness of other social movements for civil rights changed attitudes to the indigenous population and eased the passing of the 1967 Referendum which was to override prejudicial state laws and open the way to advances in land rights, discriminatory practices, financial assistance, and preservation of cultural heritage. Despite the complexities of the Referendum, it received scant, and belated, mention in Walkabout in 1967. However, articles from this period more even-handedly acknowledged the colonial massacres alongside more sympathetic, though still somewhat patronising, stories on the remote desert tribes, and more in-depth and academic discussion of the complex issues of alcohol and indigenous employment appeared, though much ink was devoted to debate over whether 'aborigine', 'Aborigine, or 'aboriginal' were correct English usage.\n\nWriting about \"Walkabout\"'s treatment of Australian indigenous people in their 2016 text, Mitchell Rolls and Anna Johnston conclude;\nIn the 1970s, despite claiming to be 'The New Walkabout', the magazine was floundering, frequently changing its subtitle and editorship and in 1971 ANTA substantially increased its cover price from 40 cents to 50 cents a copy (a rise from $4.29 to $5.36 in 2017 values), but failed to turn a profit. In accounting for its demise, University of Queensland's Dr. Max Quanchi writes '...it finally struggled against mass circulation weekly and lifestyle magazines in the early 1970s...'. In fact, Walkabout outlived \"LIFE\" by two years, with both magazines, amongst many others, succumbing to increasing publication costs, decreasing subscriptions, and to competition from other media and newspaper supplements.\n\n"}
{"id": "53402674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53402674", "title": "Women reading in art", "text": "Women reading in art\n\nWomen reading in art refers to any artistic work representing or portraying one or more women in the act of reading. This subject matter is quite common, with images appearing as early as the 14th century. Viewers are often exposed to a private, personal moments through these works. \"Reading Woman\" (c.1660) by Pieter Janssans Elinga portrays reading as an intimate and introspective activity.\n\nBeyond the exchange of ideas between author and reader, scholar James Conlon describes reading as an intimate and erotic subject, through the captivating book that touches and holds the reader's attention, and offers tactile pleasure in weight. As a result, then, the image of a woman reading becomes one of sexual subversion, and a source of fear for the male viewer or artist. In Western, patriarchal societies, Conlon argues, the act of reading takes a woman out of subservient role and into a context where personal pleasure, knowledge, and enjoyment is literally in her hands. \n\nDuring the 19th century, amidst a golden age for reading, concerns emerged about women's reading as jeopardizing marital and familial structures. Drawings and illustrations of the time reflected this fear that women would be seduced by books and neglect their domestic duties. Other images implied the danger in tempting women with books as explicitly linked to their sexuality, like in Antoine Wiert's\"The Reader of Novels\" (c.1853), where the figure of the devil literally supplies the female subject with pleasurable reading material.\n\nIn Dutch Golden Age painting, female readers were depicted as part of the genre of the everyday, usually engaged with letters. Johannes Vermeer, for example, created numerous works around this subject, including \"A Woman in Blue Reading a Letter\" and \"Girl Reading a Letter at an Open Window\". Despite this apparent acceptance of woman readers, scholars have determined that the letters including in Dutch painting were almost exclusively love letters. As Conlon argues, the self-relective act of reading becomes conflated in these depictions with distraction and longing for someone - presumably a male lover - ultimately undermining the subjectivity of the woman reader.\n\nMale artists have also depicted women readers within pastoral settings, like in Claude Monet's \"Springtime\", perhaps in an attempt to tame or domesticate the otherwise wild act of reading.\n\nFemale artists have also been drawn to the subject of women readers. These artists depictions of reading greatly differ from their male counterparts, demonstrating the complexity of the topic. Mary Cassatt's \"Family Group Reading\" is a powerful representation of women readers who demonstrate subjectivity and serious literary engagement. All three are fixated on the text, and Cassat may be emphasizing that reading comes just as naturally to women as motherhood, by painting the young girl encircled by the woman's arms and drawn literally into the book.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2339222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2339222", "title": "Yagua people", "text": "Yagua people\n\nYagua people are an indigenous people in Colombia and northeastern Peru, numbering approximately 6,000. Currently, they live near the Amazon, Napo, Putumayo and Yavari rivers and their tributaries. As of 2005, some Yagua have migrated northward to Colombia, near the town of Leticia.\n\nCurrently the Yagua live in some 30 communities scattered throughout a section of the Peruvian and Colombian Amazon basin which can roughly be described as a rectangle 200 miles wide and 350 miles long (70,000 sq. miles) extending southward from the second to the fifth parallel and westward from the 70th to the 75th meridian west.\n\nThe Yagua language is classified as a Peba-Yaguan language. The only closely related languages that have been documented are Peba and Yameo both of which are now extinct.\n\n2000 Yagua people in Peru were monolingual in 2000, and of these, 75% were women and 25% were men. The majority of the rest are bilingual in Spanish to varying degrees.\n\nYagua people are also known as Llagua, Nijyamïï Nikyejaada, Yahua, Yava, and Yegua.\n\nThere are two possible etymologies for the term 'Yagua', both of which originate outside the Yagua language. First, the Quechua term \"yawar\" meaning 'blood' or 'the color of blood', is a likely possibility due to the Yagua custom of painting their faces with achiote, the blood red seeds of the annatto plant (\"Bixa orellana\").\n\nDuring the pre-conquest period, the Yaguas were in close contact with the Incas, as to this day there are far more Quechua (Inca) words in Yagua than there are Spanish words. The term in Quechua would have been something like \"yawar runa\", 'the blood-red people', which could easily have been assimilated into Spanish as \"yagua\".\n\nSecond, the term \"yagua\" in Spanish means 'royal palm'. This term could have been applied to the Yaguas by the Spanish explorers because much of the native clothing is made of palm fiber. Unfortunately, there is no data on whether a name resembling \"yagua\" was first used by the Quechuas of the area or the Spanish, therefore there is no principled way to distinguish between these two possible etymologies.\n\nThe only native term that might be thought of as a self-referent is \"nijyąąmíy\" 'people.' This word is often used in contrast with \"mááy\" 'white people' and \"munuñúmiy\" 'savages', 'enemies' or 'non-Yaguas'. However, \"nijyąąmíy\" is also the generic term for all human beings.\n\nThe third earliest documented European contact with the Yagua was probably made by the Spanish explorer Francisco de Orellana in January 1542. While exploring in the area of modern-day Pebas, Orellana encountered a village called Aparia, and captured two chiefs named Aparia and Dirimara, as well as some others. These names could conceivably have come from the Yagua words \"(j)ápiiryá\" 'red macaw clan' and \"rimyurá\" 'shaman' respectively. The former could very well be a village name as well as a name applied to an individual; today clan names are still used by many Yaguas as family names. The word for shaman might also be used to refer to an individual, especially one singled out as a 'chief'. Regular European contact began in 1686 with the establishment of a Jesuit mission at San Joaquin de los Omagua, on an island in the Amazon river probably near what is now the mouth of the Ampiyacu River. Though this mission was established to serve the Cambeba people, there was undoubtedly contact with the Yaguas as well. From the 17th century to the last half of the 19th century, contact with the Yaguas was mainly through the Jesuit and Franciscan missionaries. In the early 18th century, Portuguese raiding parties attacked the Spanish missions throughout the Amazon region causing much geographic dispersion of the tribes that were in contact with the Spanish, and inflicting severe casualties.\n\nThe present extreme geographic dispersion of the Yagua, however, is due largely to the effects of the 'rubber boom' in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. At that time Europeans arrived in large numbers from Brazil and began to exploit the indigenous people to extract natural latex from the jungle. Many Yaguas died in conflicts with these Europeans, as well as by exposure to European diseases. Others were exploited as slave labor. Still others fled to remote regions of the jungle. Ever since the rubber boom, the Yagua sense of unity and of common culture has declined.\n\nEthnographic descriptions of the Yagua are found in Fejos (1943) and P. Powlison (1985). The history and migrations of the Yagua are described in Chaumeil (1983).\n\nYagua mythology was often told at night when they were not conducive to sleep along with them not being preoccupied with other matters. Most of their story's started with \"My deceased father (mother, grandfather, grandmother etc.) used to tell me,\" to make the story's more real.\n\nThe tremendous distances between villages make it very difficult to have consistent interaction with Yaguas outside one's home village. All economic activity outside the village is with non-Yagua peoples, usually Spanish-speakers. Thus there is economic and social pressure to learn Spanish and assimilate to the general Peruvian culture. Villages are also characteristically quite small (2 to 30 families). This fact further limits the breadth of interaction with other Yaguas, and increases the tendency to want to reach out beyond one's village for social and economic advantages.\n\nHowever, the Yagua culture and language do continue to be viable, especially in some of the larger and more isolated communities. Some children grow up speaking only Yagua, and native arts and crafts are a significant economic activity.\n\n\n"}
