{"id": "57288543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57288543", "title": "2018 Colorado teachers' strike", "text": "2018 Colorado teachers' strike\n\nThe 2018 Colorado teachers' strike was a two and a half week strike that began on April 27, 2018, with teachers in some districts across the state walking out to protest low pay, low state-wide education spending, and mismanagement of the state teachers' pension. The strike ended on May 12, 2018 with an agreement between the teachers' union and school officials for a 2 percent pay raise. The strike was part of the larger wave of teachers' strikes in the United States where protests occurred in West Virginia, Oklahoma and Arizona.\n\nSince at least 2003, teacher salaries after inflation have dropped by 17 percent. The Colorado Education Association stays that the state has underfunded education by $6.6 billion since 2009 by failing to implement a constitutional amendment that requires education funding to grow on pace with inflation. The Colorado Education Association says that teacher salaries after inflation have dropped 17 percent in the last 15 years, and that the state has underfunded education by $6.6 billion since 2009 by failing to implement a constitutional amendment that requires education funding to grow on pace with inflation. \n\nThe strike began on Friday, April 27. On that day, 10 school districts were closed in the state due to the strike.\nThe topic of educational funding in various states within the United States has become a controversial subject. In early 2018, teachers in the states of Arizona, Colorado, North Carolina, Oklahoma, and West Virginia conducted strikes. In Colorado, the strikes occurred because of low teacher salaries and insignificant benefits. Colorado teachers were represented by the Colorado Education Association (CEA) and were opposed by officials of state government. The CEA demanded a two percent salary increase and a significant favorable adjustment to the Colorado Public Employees’ Retirement Association (PERA). In response, on April 20th, 2018, Colorado Senator Bob Gardner and Representative Paul Lundeen introduced Senate Bill 18-264. Gardner and Lundeen intended to discourage teachers from conducting protests. “The bill prohibits public school teachers and teacher organizations from directly or indirectly inducing, instigating, encouraging, authorizing, ratifying, or participating in a strike against any public-school employer” (SB18-264, n.d.). However, Senate Bill 18-264 was heavily criticized and was dismissed. Despite the threat of the bill, Colorado teachers began to strike on April 27th, 2018 and continued to do so until May 12th, 2018. Ultimately, the state government of Colorado agreed to give teachers a two percent salary increase.\n\nTwo Republican state senators, Bob Gardner and Paul Lundeen responded by proposing a bill that would fine teachers $5,000 per day for striking and send to teachers to jail for six months for striking. The bill was met with harsh criticism and was killed in subcommittee on April 30, although Gardner indicated he would consider reintroducing the bill in 2019 should there be a strike.\n\nOn April 30, Democratic governor, John Hickenlooper signed a $28.9 billion budget into law. In the law, $225 million was allocated to the state pension, and increased K-12 education funding by $150 million annually. Additionally, public colleges and universities would receive a 9 percent increase in state funding aimed at limiting increases in tuition rates.\n\n"}
{"id": "8771069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8771069", "title": "Allardyce Nicoll", "text": "Allardyce Nicoll\n\nJohn Ramsay Allardyce Nicoll (28 June 1894 – 17 April 1976) was a British literary scholar and teacher.\n\nAllardyce Nicoll was born and educated in Glasgow. He became a lecturer at King's College London in 1920 and took the chair of English at East London College (later Queen Mary's College) in 1923. In 1933 he went to Yale University as professor of the history of drama and dramatic criticism and chair of the drama department. He established a strong graduate programme in theatre history. Around 1943-45 he performed war work at the British embassy in Washington. From 1945 to 1961 he headed the English Department at the University of Birmingham; from 1951 to 1961 he was also founding director of the Shakespeare Institute at Birmingham. He served as President of The Society for Theatre Research from 1958 to 1976.\n\nHis major work was his six-volume \"History of English Drama, 1660-1900\", published as separate volumes starting in 1923, and reissued as a set in 1952-59. He also wrote many other books on English drama.\n\nHe was married twice and had no children.\n\n"}
{"id": "32170360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32170360", "title": "American Educational Research Journal", "text": "American Educational Research Journal\n\nThe American Educational Research Journal is a peer-reviewed academic journal that covers the field of educational research. The editor-in-chief is Julianne C. Turner (University of Notre Dame), with coeditors Mark Berends (University of Notre Dame), Francesca López (University of Arizona), Sadhana Puntambekar (University of Wisconsin, Madison), and Suzanne Wilson (University of Connecticut). It was established in 1964 and is currently published by Sage Publications on behalf of the American Educational Research Association.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Scopus and the Social Sciences Citation Index. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", its 2017 impact factor is 2.462.\n"}
{"id": "43150244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43150244", "title": "Amy Thiessen", "text": "Amy Thiessen\n\nAmy Thiessen is a Canadian singer-songwriter from Calgary. Her debut full-length album was \"Give Up The Fight\",\nreleased in 2011.\nHer second album, \"In Between Goodbyes\" (2014), was produced by Russell Broom.\nIn a \"Fast Forward Weekly\" review of \"Give Up the Fight,\" James Wilt wrote \"Thiessen's lyrical honesty and powerful voice deserves a listen.\"\n\nThiessen is a certified Yoga instructor, which has influenced her music, especially her first album.\n\n"}
{"id": "32023488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32023488", "title": "Autonomous University of Baja California, Tijuana", "text": "Autonomous University of Baja California, Tijuana\n\nThe Autonomous University of Baja California, Tijuana is one of three main campuses of the Autonomous University of Baja California (UABC), located in the Otay Centenario borough of Tijuana, Baja California state, México. It is a public research university.\n\nThe Tijuana branch of the Autonomous University of Baja California maintains three sub-campuses in the Municipality of Tijuana, in the towns of: \n\nFaculty of Chemistry Sciences and Engineering:\n\nFaculty of Arts:\n\nFaculty of Humanities and Social Sciences:\n"}
{"id": "12582975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12582975", "title": "Basic Economics Test", "text": "Basic Economics Test\n\nThe Basic Economics Test or BET is a standardized test of economics nationally norm-referenced in the United States for use in the upper-grade levels of elementary schools. It is one of four grade-level specific standardized economics tests (i.e., Test of Economic Knowledge (TEK), Test of Economic Literacy (TEL) and Test of Understanding in College Economics (TUCE)) sponsored and published by the National Council on Economic Education (NCEE) .\n\nThe BET was recently revised into its third edition in 2007 and will soon be available, along with an examiner’s manual, for teachers, school administrators and researchers through the NCEE. The revision process took place at the National Center for Research in Economic Education (NCREE) and included a new set of norm-references that consisted of teacher and student participation from twenty-three U.S. states. The BET has two parallel forms, each with thirty four-option multiple-choice items with content validity based on the Voluntary National Content Standards in Economics.\n\n"}
{"id": "12765882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12765882", "title": "Blackboard Learn", "text": "Blackboard Learn\n\nBlackboard Learn (previously the Blackboard Learning Management System) is a virtual learning environment and course management system developed by Blackboard Inc. It is Web-based server software which features course management, customizable open architecture, and scalable design that allows integration with student information systems and authentication protocols. It may be installed on local servers or hosted by Blackboard ASP Solutions. Its main purposes are to add online elements to courses traditionally delivered face-to-face and to develop completely online courses with few or no face-to-face meetings.\n\nOn January 21, 1997, Stephen Gilfus and Daniel Cane started a company called CourseInfo LLC and were developing a software product that would power online education and be scalable for wider institutional application. At the same time, Matthew Pittinsky and Michael Chasen formed Blackboard LLC and were contracted to help lead the formation of the Educause IMS standards group for online education technology. The two groups merged to form Blackboard Inc., which then developed the Blackboard Learning System.\n\nIn 2015 the company announced a major upgrade to the user experience, called Ultra. According to company statements, Ultra is to be an optional user interface sitting on top of the existing Learn 9.1 architecture.\n\nIn October 2017, Blackboard partnered with OpenEd to integrate OER with Learning Management Systems. \n\nBlackboard Learn provides users with a platform for communication and sharing content.\n\n\n\nBlackboard Inc has had several legal issues, including faulty patent rights claims. In addition, a number of educational institutions, teachers, and students have expressed concerns about the reliability of Blackboard. McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, has replaced their Blackboard system after multiple problems during one year of use. Citing numerous glitches and high costs, many universities are turning to the cheaper, open source alternative Moodle, including Montana State University, Vassar College, California State University, Long Beach, and many other schools. Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute's implementation of the system notably suffered sporadic outages in the Grade Book section during the finals of the Fall 2014 semester.\n\n"}
{"id": "2530957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2530957", "title": "Bob Moses (activist)", "text": "Bob Moses (activist)\n\nRobert Parris Moses (born January 31, 1935) is an American educator and civil rights activist, known for his work as a leader of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee on voter education and registration in Mississippi during the Civil Rights Movement. He was a graduate of Hamilton College and completed a master's in philosophy at Harvard University.\n\nSince 1982 Moses has developed the nationwide Algebra Project in the United States. He has received a MacArthur Fellowship and other awards for this work, which emphasizes teaching algebra skills to minority students based on broad-based community organizing and collaboration with parents, teachers and students.\n\nRobert Parris Moses graduated from Stuyvesant High School in 1952 and received his B.A. from Hamilton College in 1956. He earned an M.A. in philosophy at Harvard; in 1958 he began teaching at the Horace Mann School in the Bronx of New York City.\n\nMoses developed as one of the most influential black leaders of the civil rights struggle, and he had a vision of grassroots and community-based leadership. Although Moses’ leadership style was different from Rev. Martin Luther King’s, King appreciated the contributions that Moses made to the movement, claiming they were inspiring. Moses initiated and organized voter registration drives in the South, sit-ins, and Freedom Schools for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee.\n\nHe currently runs the Algebra Project, which is a continued effort to improve math education in poor communities with the goal of sending more students to the workforce. Starting as a civil rights leader and transitioning into an advocate for the poor through his work with the Algebra Project, Moses has revolutionized the ideal of equal opportunity and has played a vital role in making it a reality.\n\nMoses began working with civil rights activists in 1960, becoming field secretary for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC). As director of the SNCC's Mississippi Project in 1961, Moses traveled to Pike County and Amite County to try to register black voters. Comprising a majority in both counties, despite many people leaving in the Great Migration in the first half of the century, they had been utterly closed out of the political process since 1890. He pushed for the SNCC to engage in a \"tactical nonviolence,\" a matter he discussed in an interview with Robert Penn Warren for the book \"Who Speaks for the Negro?\".\n\nWhite Democrats had disfranchised Mississippi's blacks in their 1890 constitution, which required poll taxes, and other barriers, such as residency requirements, and subjective literacy tests. It was nearly impossible for blacks to register and vote. After decades of violence and repression under Jim Crow, by the 1960s most blacks did not bother trying to register. In 1965, only one African American among 5500 in Amite County was registered to vote.\n\nMoses faced nearly relentless violence and official intimidation, and was beaten and arrested in Amite County. He was the first African American to challenge white violence, and filed assault charges against his attacker. The all-white jury acquitted the man, and the judge told Moses he could not protect him, providing him an escort to the county line. The next month in September 1961, E.H. Hurst, a white state legislator, killed Herbert Lee, a 56-year-old married local farmer in Liberty, Mississippi, who had been in a voter registration class. Hurst murdered him in front of a dozen witnesses and was cleared at the inquest that day, claiming self-defense; the courtroom was filled with armed white men. Witness Louis Allen was murdered in early 1964 after being boycotted and harassed for discussing the Lee murder with federal officials. Moses and other organizers had asked for federal protection from the John F. Kennedy administration but the Justice Department did not then provide it.\n\nBy 1964 Moses had become Co-Director of the Council of Federated Organizations (COFO), an umbrella organization for the major civil rights groups working in Mississippi. A major leader with SNCC, he was the main organizer of COFO's Freedom Summer project, which was intended to achieve widespread voter registration of blacks in Mississippi, and ultimately, end racial disfranchisement. They planned education and organizing, and a simplified registration system, to demonstrate African-American desire to vote. Moses was one of the calm leaders who kept the group focused.\n\nOn June 21, as many of the new volunteers were getting settled and trained in nonviolent resistance, three were reported missing. They were James Chaney, a local African American, and his two Jewish co-leaders Andrew Goodman and Michael Schwerner, both from New York City. These three young men had gone to investigate a church bombing near Philadelphia, Mississippi. They were arrested on alleged traffic violations and released that night. After an FBI investigation, their decomposed bodies were found six weeks later, buried in an earthen dam. The volunteers were frightened. Moses gathered them together to discuss it; he told the group this was the risk they faced. He said that now that they had seen first-hand what could happen, they had every right to go home. He assured volunteers that no one would blame them for leaving. Everyone stayed.\n\nThis was not the first murder of activists in Mississippi or the South, but the Civil Rights Movement had attracted increasing notice from the national media. Many African-American volunteers were angered that publicity appeared to be based on two of the victims being white Northerners. Moses helped ease tensions. The volunteers struggled with the idea of nonviolence, of blacks and whites working together, and related issues. These tensions were enormous, but arguably, Moses's leadership was a major cohesive factor for a number of volunteers staying.\n\nMoses was instrumental in the organizing of the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party, a group that challenged the all-white regular Democratic Party delegates from the state at the party's 1964 convention. Because the Democratic Regulars had for decades excluded African Americans from the political process in Mississippi, the MFDP wanted their elected delegates seated at the convention. Their challenge received national media coverage and highlighted the civil rights struggle in the state.\n\nLyndon Johnson and the Democratic leadership nonetheless prevented any of the MFDP delegation from voting in the convention, giving the official seats to the Jim Crow regulars. Moses and the rest of the SNCC activists were profoundly disillusioned by this decision. Moses was also disturbed by the machinations of liberal Democrats, who he had invited into COFO, to centralize its decision-making, an effort that seemed to undermine the grassroots participatory democracy of SNCC.\n\nMoses resigned from COFO in late 1964. He later commented that his role had become ‘‘too strong, too central, so that people who did not need to, began to lean on me, to use me as a crutch’’. He temporarily dropped his surname, going by his middle name, Parris, and began participating in the campaign against the Vietnam War. Speaking at the first massive anti-war demonstration on April 17, 1965, at the Washington Monument, Moses linked his opposition to the war to the civil rights struggle. As his involvement in the anti-war movement increased, he took a leave of absence from SNCC to avoid criticisms from fellow members who did not support his stance. Following a trip to Africa in 1965 Moses came to believe that blacks must work independently of whites, and by 1966 Moses had cut off all relationships with whites, even former SNCC activists.\n\nIn 1976 Moses returned to the United States and Harvard, doing graduate work in the philosophy of mathematics. He taught high school math in a public high school in Cambridge, Massachusetts, after learning from his daughter that the school was not offering algebra.\n\nIn 1982 Moses received a MacArthur Fellowship. He used the award to create the Algebra Project, devoted to improving minority education in math, starting with his daughter's classroom in a Cambridge, Massachusetts public school. Moses also taught math for a time at Lanier High School in Jackson, Mississippi. He used the Lanier classroom as a laboratory school for developing methods and approaches for the Algebra Project, enlisting the support of parents and the community in the project.\n\nIn 2005 Moses was selected as one of twelve inaugural Alphonse Fletcher Sr. Fellows by the Fletcher Foundation, which awards substantial grants to scholars and activists working on civil rights issues.\n\nSince 1982, Moses expanded the Algebra Project from teaching math in one school, to supporting these methods for teaching math in over 200 schools across the country by the late 1990s. The Algebra Project's unique approach to school reform intentionally develops models that are sustainable and focused on students. This is achieved by building coalitions of stakeholders within the local communities. The historically underserved population is a big portion of these coalitions.\n\nThe Algebra Project works to change common attitudes of our society that routinely promote the exclusion and regression of minorities. The goal of the Algebra Project is to take the students who score the lowest on state math tests and prepare them for college level math by the end of high school. This is done by doubling up on math courses for the four years of high school. The Algebra Project is based in research and development, school development, and community and site development.\n\nIn October 2006, the Algebra Project received an award from the National Science Foundation to improve the development of materials for Algebra I. In terms of school development, the Algebra Project strives to provide culturally sensitive, context-based, and site-specific professional development opportunities to teachers. It promotes collaboration of teaching methods and knowledge. The Algebra Project partners with local higher education and research institutions to help teachers develop professionally, trains teachers on new materials, and provides them with programs to get certified.\n\nThe Algebra Project collaborates with the Young People’s Project to help engage students in their learning process. “YPP uses mathematics literacy as a tool to develop young leaders and organizers who radically change the quality of education and quality of life in their communities so that all children have the opportunity to reach their full human potential.” At its peak, the Algebra Project has provided help to roughly forty-thousand minority students each year. Contributions include curricula guides for kindergarten through high school, the training of teachers, and peer coaching.\n\nMoses believed that Algebra was a critical “gatekeeper” subject because mastering it was necessary in order for middle school students to advance in math, technology, and science. Without algebra, students would not be able to meet the requirements for college. Fifty-five percent of the students following the Algebra Project’s curriculum passed the state exam on their first attempt, compared to 40 percent of students following the regular curriculum. More students at junior high school sites who followed the Algebra Project curriculum scored higher on standardized tests and continued to more advanced math classes than did their schoolmates who followed standard curriculum. Thus, they could better meet requirements for college admission and future entry into good jobs.\n\nIn 2006 Moses was named a Frank H. T. Rhodes Class of '56 Professor at Cornell University. As a Visiting Scholar at Princeton University, he taught an African American Studies class with Professor Tera Hunter in the Spring 2012 semester.\n\nMoses is teaching high school math in Jackson, Mississippi, and Miami, Florida.\n\nHe was identified as a Teaching hero by The My Hero Project.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53298925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53298925", "title": "Burgenländisches Schulungszentrum", "text": "Burgenländisches Schulungszentrum\n\nBurgenländisches Schulungszentrum (BUZ) is an adult education college in Neutal, Austria, offering fulltime and part-time courses in areas such as metal technology, electrical engineering, IT and reintegration.\nIn 1975 the Burgenländisches Schulungszentrum has been built and metal technology and electrical engineering courses have been held.\n\nBurgenländisches Schulungszentrum is supported by:\nmembers:\nBurgenländisches Schulungszentrum offers over 50 courses including subjects in the areas of Information and communications technology, Electrical Engineering, Metal technology, \nThe college also offers specialist areas, including courses for people with learning difficulties.\n"}
{"id": "42851538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42851538", "title": "Canadianization movement", "text": "Canadianization movement\n\nCanadianization or the Canadianization movement refers partly to a campaign launched at Carleton University in Ottawa, Canada in 1968 by Robin Mathews and James Steele. The purpose of the campaign was to ensure that Carleton as an employer treated Canadian citizens equitably and that Canadians would remain or become at least a two-thirds majority of the teaching staff. Although Carleton was the particular institution addressed in the recommendations of Mathews and Steele, they were concerned about fairness for Canadian scholars in the hiring practices of all Canadian universities and about a lack of Canadian content in many courses. Although their recommendations were rejected at Carleton, concern about Canadianization was widespread. Eventually, all universities in Canada were required by the Canadian government to follow employment practices that were more fair for Canadians, and the number and percentage of courses with Canadian content in Canadian universities increased remarkably. The problem of Canadianization was the subject of a three-volume report prepared by the Commission on Canadian Studies chaired by Professor T.H.B. Symons (formerly President of Trent University). Between 1960 and 1980, many other cultural organizations \"Canadianized\" in one way or another. The movement has remained a subject of discussion in recent years, and the term \"Canadianization\" has been applied, often retrospectively, to analogous or similar movements.\n\n\"Canadianization\" or the \"Canadianization Movement\" began when two Carleton professors circulated recommendations in a memorandum addressed to all members of the Carleton University Academic Staff Association (C.U.A.S.A.). This document noted there was strong evidence that Canadian citizens were becoming a rapidly diminishing proportion of the faculties of arts and science in Canadian Universities and requested a meeting of C.U.A.S.A. to discuss five remedial motions. Mathews and Steele first asked the University to ensure that, in hiring new professors, Canadian citizens would eventually form a two-thirds majority of faculty. Because this motion had no time limit, its recommendation was for a goal not a quota. The second motion recommended that, before the appointment of a non-Canadian, a vacancy be well advertised in Canada. The other three asked that Canadian citizenship be made a necessary qualification for all future appointments to administrative positions, that Carleton keep a record of the citizenship of faculty, and that the Canadian Association of University Teachers (C.A.U.T.) gather information about the citizenship-composition of Canadian universities and \"consider the formulation of a national policy with respect to this matter.\" Adoption of these measures was intended to assure the place of Canadians as faculty members at Carleton University.\n\nMathews and Steele argued that during the decade of the 1960s, Canadians had become an ever smaller proportion of faculty in Canadian universities. In 1961, census data indicated that the proportion of Canadians on faculty was about 75%. By 1967-68, there were strong indications that the proportion of Canadians in faculties of arts and science in some 15 universities had fallen to 49%. They noted in their Memorandum and in a later introductory chapter to their book that this decline in the proportion of Canadians had occurred in a national context of conditions that threatened Canada's sovereignty. Canada's status as a branch-plant economy had been described in the report of the \"Task Force on Foreign Ownership and the Structure of Canadian Investment\" headed by Professor Mel Watkins. Senator Grattan O'Leary had described the extent to which Canadian communication media had become inundated with American content. The two professors argued that the national allegiances of faculty members could affect scholarly priorities—a matter subsequently well discussed in relation to Political Science by two students at York University and the University of Toronto, James MacKinnon and David Brown. In later statements, Mathews and Steele observed that Canadian materials were often neglected in university departments employing few Canadian faculty.\n\nThey likewise explained that many university positions in Canada were being filled without advertising in Canada. Instead, informal networks were frequently used to recruit scholars from outside the country. Yet Canadians were often prevented from competing in those same foreign jurisdictions because of exclusionary regulations and practices favoring the nationals of those countries. The two professors argued that their motions would help to level the playing field while providing ample space for the hiring of foreign applicants. They suggested that, if hiring practices were fair for Canadians, Canadian candidates would often be successful.\n\nMathews and Steele recommended that university administrators be citizens of Canada for two reasons. This qualification would help to ensure that administrators, who are concerned with the logistics of scholarship, would be familiar with the needs and aspirations of the Canadian community. It would also guarantee that when administrators exercise regulatory, judicial, financial, and disciplinary powers they would have the civil qualification of at least a voter. Steele observed that making this civil status a requirement would also be in accordance with a recommendation of a former Ontario Chief Justice, the Honourable James Chalmers McRuer.\n\nThe memorandum and motions presented by the two men were greeted with general hostility at the C.U.A.S.A. meeting. Many colleagues argued that because scholarship, science, and learning are international and because some members of faculty were non-Canadian, the motions were anti-academic and offensive. The two proponents were accordingly described as racist, anti-American, immoral, and more. One colleague even attempted to present a motion to refer Mathews and Steele to the Ontario Human Rights Commission with the suggestion they should be criminally charged. Yet two of the few people who supported the motions were non-Canadians who understood the problem being addressed. The meeting ended with a vote to change and amend the recommendations in order to destroy their intention. The original motions were defeated by votes of 135 to five and even, in one case, by 138 to 2.\n\nIt later became evident that scholars in Canada in disciplines ranging from Chemistry to History to Zoology were concerned about the Canadianization problem but had not expressed their thoughts publicly. At Carleton, the proposals were strongly supported by Professor Antonio Gualtieri, a member of Carleton's Department of Religion. Even before the Carleton meeting, Professor Anthony Raspa discussed the problem publicly in \"Le Devoir\". The negative response he elicited from colleagues was an early indication of the strong emotions it could arouse. Raspa, then a member of the English Department of Loyola College (now part of Concordia), had to contend with one \"violent\" colleague, with several others who signed a petition stating he \"imperil[ed] the reputation of the College,\" with a Chair who asked the College senate to investigate and possibly censure him, and with a President who informed him by letter—later retracted—that his teaching contract would not be renewed. Between 1969 and 1972, Mathews and/or Steele spoke widely on the subject of Canadianization at teach-ins and/or special meetings, participating as guest speakers, individually or together, at many universities and colleges and occasionally at teacher conventions. (Institutions where they spoke included the following: the University of Victoria, the University of British Columbia, Simon Fraser University, Calgary University, the University of Alberta, the University of Saskatchewan, the University of Manitoba, the University of Toronto, York University, Queen's University, Seneca College, the Ontario Institute for Studies in Education, McGill University, Bishop's University, Dawson College, Marianopolis College, Sir George Williams University, the University of New Brunswick, Mount Allison University, Dalhousie University, and Memorial University.) They also did radio, television, and print media interviews across the country so that the public could become aware of the problem.\n\nIn addition to these public communications, Mathews corresponded privately with members of nearly all the institutions mentioned above as well as with members of a dozen other colleges and/or organizations. His correspondents included students, faculty members, chairs, and presidents; and his letters were about hiring practices and/or curricular matters. Many scholars wrote to Mathews and Steele requesting detailed information about the meeting at Carleton. Others, in letters and other publications, described a lack of employment opportunities for Canadians and lamented a lack of interest in Canadian matters in certain departments. After Mathews and Steele received so many requests for the information that the correspondence was becoming unmanageable, they edited \"The Struggle for Canadian Universities: A Dossier\". As well as being a record of events at Carleton, it included a selection of correspondence and many related publications. In the age of the mimeograph machine, the purpose of the book was to meet numerous requests for information and to facilitate a process of reform.\n\nAs news of the Carleton meeting was widely reported and hotly debated outside of academia, attention to the issue bore fruit. The federal department called Employment and Immigration Canada—then referred to as the Department of Manpower and Immigration—introduced rules to ensure fairer procedures in the hiring practices of Canadian universities. In 1977, it made the advertising of all vacancies mandatory, and in 1981 it stipulated that a search for Canadian applicants would be necessary before it would approve a job offer to a foreign candidate.\n\nIn 1969, the Canadian Association of University Teachers (C.A.U.T.) also published a position paper \"'Canadianization' and the University\" drafted by its Executive and Finance Committee. It re-affirmed the support of the C.A.U.T. for the advertising of all academic vacancies while asserting that \"competence\" should be the principal criterion in employing both Canadian and foreign scholars. In 1977, the C.A.U.T. published a revised \"Guidelines on Canadianization and the University\"—a policy statement recommending again that all vacancies be advertised and that \"the appointment of a person who is not a Canadian or legally a resident of Canada should be justified to the satisfaction of a university or faculty committee.\" Such appointment-review committees—one in each institution—should likewise ensure (i)that Canadian citizens and landed immigrants are treated equally,(ii) that job descriptions are clearly stated (and not worded so as to place Canadians at an unfair disadvantage)and(iii)that an \"active search\" for a qualified Canadian for each position has been made.\n\nAs these changes in hiring procedures were being considered or introduced, \"Canadianization\" came to include more than a concern about hiring. It drew attention to the serious neglect of Canadian materials and courses across the Canadian university community and, of course, to the lack of materials (and knowledge about existing materials) available in libraries and archives. It came to include demands for a greater range and depth of course offerings that engage research and subject matter relating to Canada. For instance, Professor J. Laurence Black observed that in 1969 Laurentian University's Political Science department offered only a half course in Canadian government, its Geography department offered no courses in Canadian geography, and its English department offered none in Canadian literature. Professor R. L MacDougall noted that in the early 1970s, \"undergraduate courses in Canadian literature represented only 8% of the total offerings of departments of English.\" Courses in Quebec literature were also hard to find even in Quebec.\n\nBetween 1970 and 1980, through the work of scholars across the country and pressure from concerned students active in campus radio, campus newspapers, and student organizations, the Canadian content of Canadian university courses increased significantly. In 2006, when Steele and Mathews surveyed the calendar descriptions of courses in five disciplines at six universities for the years 1970, 1975, and 1980, they found that by 1975 the number of courses listing Canadian content had increased by 73% and that such courses had more than doubled by 1980. Responding to the wide-ranging debate and the growing concern over the inadequate study of Canadian matters in many disciplines, the Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada (AUCC)--an organization of university executive heads representing their respective institutions—decided to consider the question of Canadian resources for treating Canadian material.\n\nWith an expectation of funding by the Canada Council, the AUCC decided in 1970 or even earlier to establish a Commission on Canadian Studies. In June, 1972, the AUCC appointed Professor T.H.B. Symons to serve as Chair. The Commission was staffed with a research coordinator, four research associates, 10 research assistants, three consultants, and an advisory panel of 35. It held more than 40 hearings across the country, received \"more than 1000 briefs and close to 40,000 letters.\" It also had some 58 liaison persons in almost as many universities across the country. In 1976, the AUCC released the first two volumes of the Commission's report: \"To Know Ourselves: Report of the Commission on Canadian Studies\" or the \"Symons Report\" (as it is better known). It describes university hiring practices, analyzes the Canadian content in the courses of many different disciplines, and describes the state of \"Canadian Studies\" both within Canada and abroad. It also makes more than a 1000 recommendations for the addition of more Canadian content in teaching and research. It says little, however, about the responsibilities of university administrators or about their citizenship.\n\nThe first two volumes of the Symons Report were also published in a shorter version two years later. In 1981, James E. Page, a consultant to the Commission, wrote \"Reflections on the Symons Report The State of Canadian Studies: A Report Prepared for The Department of Secretary of State of Canada\". In 1984, the Commission on Canadian Studies published a study by Professor Symons and James E. Page. This third volume of the \"Symons Report\", entitled \"Some Questions of Balance: Human Resources, Higher Education and Canadian Studies\", makes a plea—still unanswered—for \"the collection of adequate statistical information about Canadian postsecondary education and about current and future requirements for highly qualified personnel.\" The authors also discuss, among other topics, the historical context of Canadianization and the matter of citizenship. With respect to the latter, their recommendations include an endorsement of a later version of the C.A.U.T.'s \"Guidelines on Canadianization and the University\" (1977) (see section E above). They note, however, that neither university administrations nor faculty associations have given much support to these Guidelines in practice. By 1984 \"only one or two of the seventy Canadian universities and degree-granting institutions\" had followed the C.A.U.T.'s second recommendation and established an appointments review committee which would monitor the wording of job descriptions for fairness to Canadians and ascertain whether or not the \"appointment of a person who is not a Canadian or legally a resident of Canada\" was justified. Although Symons and Page observe that university administrators had not adopted these reasonable employment practices, the third volume of their Report, like the first two, includes little discussion of this matter.\n\nAfter the Commission on Canadian Studies ended its work, Professor Symons transmitted its copious fonds to the archives of Trent University Library where they now occupy some 19 meters of shelf space in 73 boxes (see the list of Archival Sources below).\n\nThe support of organizations outside the universities also helped to keep the debate alive and to keep public interest focused on the need for change. Help came from such associations as the Committee for an Independent Canada, the Confederation of Canadian Unions, The Waffle in the New Democratic Party, and from some MPs in the House of Commons. The Progressive Conservative Robert Stanfield, Leader of the Opposition, asked a question about the subject in Question Period on April 24, 1969 and soon thereafter discussed the problem at length in a speech to an Ottawa Rotary Club. On May 29, Mr. Mark Rose of the New Democratic Party spoke at length about matter in the House of Commons and the Liberal government's Lloyd Axworthy, as responsible minister, put in place the regulations (as mentioned above) to assure a consistent policy of fairness to Canadian applicants for academic positions (see Part E).\n\nThe years before 1968 had seen a growing concern with foreign participation in, especially, the economy of Canada and also with the state of Canadian social and cultural life. The famous Walter Gordon federal budget of 1963 (quickly withdrawn) sought to repatriate Canadian ownership of the economy and engendered an intense national debate and, ultimately, in 1968 the Watkins Report on foreign ownership. The 1957 creation of the Canada Council for the Arts encouraged increased cultural activity, and so did the formation of provincial councils of the arts. Celebration of the Canadian Centennial in 1967 focused popular attention on the country and its achievements. A. Birnie Hodgetts had written \"What Culture?: What Heritage? A Study of Civic Education in Canada; the Report of the National History Project\".\n\nAttention to Canadian sovereignty in all dimensions of Canadian life sharpened in the 1960s and continued after them. Concern with \"Canadianization\" was not confined to education and educational opportunities. A wide range of organizations concerned with Canadianization were formed. These included the Writers' Union of Canada, the National Farmers Union, the Confederation of Canadian Unions, the League of Canadian Poets, the Canadian Artists' Representation/Le Front des artistes canadiens (CARFAC), and the National Action Committee on the Status of Women (NAC), the Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives, the Canadian Liberation Movement … and more.\n\nDuring the 1970s, interest in Canadianization was also spurred by the Cold War, then at its height. Canadians were aware that this conflict could have easily escalated, either by design or accident, into a nuclear war, which could have been a devastating, transpolar conflict fought mainly in Canadian skies. In this context, knowledge relating to Canada had a bearing on both personal and national survival. Many Canadians were concerned, for example, when contradictory answers to a question in theoretical physics—about whether or not the Bomarc missiles stationed at North Bay in Northern Ontario, if armed with nuclear warheads, could successfully \"cook\" the incoming warheads of hostile missiles—were given along national lines.\n\nCanadianization has remained a subject of both discussion and controversy, even while Canadian universities remain the most international in the world. In 1996, historian J.L. Granatstein describes the movement and its rationale in \"Yankee Go Home?: Canadians and Anti-Americanism\". Jeffrey Cormier, a sociologist, analyses the campaign in a book-length study, \"The Canadianization Movement: Emergence, Survival, and Success\" (2004)--a work also concerned with the movement as it related to changing conditions of employment in Cormier's own discipline of Sociology. Cormier takes a wider view of the campaign in \"The Canadianization Movement in Context\" (2005). Cormier takes a wider view of the campaign in \"The Canadianization Movement in Context\" (2005). Steele and Mathews respond with \"Canadianization Revisited: A Comment on Cormier's \"The Canadianization Movement in Context\" (2006), where they discuss certain factual errors, Cormier's view of \"context,\" and his description of the actors involved. Dirk Hoerder, in \"From the Study of Canada to Canadian Studies: To Know Our Many Selves Changing Across Space and Time\"(2005), traces the history of Canadian studies from the early nineteenth century to modern times in an analysis written from a post-national and \"transcultural\" point of view. In 2006, Professor Li Wei analyses the movement for a Chinese readership in \"The Canadianization Movement and Its Influence on the Higher Education System of Canada.\" Ryan Edwardson comments on the movement in the context of the Massey Report, multiculturalism, and many other related cultural policies in \"Canadian Content: Culture and the Quest for Nationhood\" (2008). Brooke Anderson argues in \"The elephant in the (class)room: The debate over Americanization of Canadian universities and the question of national identity\" (2011) that \"neo-colonialism\" was an idea shared by the movement's proponents and opponents alike.\n\n"}
{"id": "705906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=705906", "title": "Carmen Duncan", "text": "Carmen Duncan\n\nCarmen Joan Duncan (born 7 July 1942) is an Australian actress. She was nominated for the AFI Award for Best Actress for the 1980 film \"Harlequin\". Her other film appearances include \"Touch and Go\" (1980) \"Turkey Shoot\" (1982) and \"Now and Forever\" (1983). She went on to play Iris Wheeler on the American soap opera \"Another World\" from 1988 to 1994.\n\nBorn in Cooma, New South Wales, Duncan is known to Australian audiences as a character actress in television, stage an films, as well as having appeared in television commercials. Australian television roles included several episodes of the Australian series \"Hunter\" (1967) and she appeared for several months in the evening soap opera \"Number 96\" playing Helen Sheridan in 1973. From there, a role on the soap \"Certain Women\" followed. She later had an ongoing role in \"Skyways\", and guest starred in several episodes of \"A Country Practice\" as Rowena Elliott, Terence Elliott's wife. Film roles include playing a lascivious, sadistic and murderous lesbian armed with a crossbow in exploitation film \"Turkey Shoot\" (1982).\n\nShe later emigrated to the United States where she acted on television. From October 1988 to September 1994, she portrayed Iris Carrington Wheeler on the daytime soap opera \"Another World\". She succeeded Beverlee McKinsey in the role after a long absence. Many of Duncan's critics, including \"TV Guide\" Michael Logan, remarked that her accent sounded less American than her counterparts, making her seem out of place in the serial. As an actress, Duncan generally used a Cultivated Australian accent, which is similar to Received Pronunciation.\n\nAfter leaving the \"Another World\" role in the mid-1990s, Duncan returned to Australia, where she acted in guest roles on television series and lampooned her former soap opera image on television commercials. In 2000 Duncan was diagnosed and successfully treated for early stage breast cancer. In 2003, she appeared as Anna Denton on \"CrashBurn\". In 2004, Duncan returned to the United States to fill in for Eileen Fulton as Lisa Grimaldi in three episodes of \"As the World Turns\" while Fulton was on emergency medical leave. Duncan continues to take permanent residence in Australia.\n\nIn 2006, Duncan switched hats from acting to take up a post as fundraising manager for the GO Fund, which is a devoted to research and treatment for gynaecological cancer in New South Wales. Duncan left the GO Fund in 2009. She currently serves as an Ambassador for the Breast Care Centre at the Royal Hospital for Women and as the Ambassador for Tenterfield Shire Council for Australia Day. As well, Duncan is actively involved in the Catholic Women's League of Sydney and campaigns for funding for awareness of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome, having lost her own grandson to the condition.\nDuncan has been a teacher of professional speech and drama, and one time secretary, she resides in Sydney and is a mother of two adult children, Duncan and Amelia. Her younger sister is actress Paula Duncan.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8369043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8369043", "title": "Cecilie Thomsen", "text": "Cecilie Thomsen\n\nCecilie Thomsen (born 29 October 1974) is a Danish actress and model.\n\nThomsen was born on the island Bogø in Denmark.\n\nInternationally, Cecilie Thomsen is best known for playing the minor Bond girl role of Professor Inga Bergstrøm opposite Pierce Brosnan in the 1997 James Bond feature film \"Tomorrow Never Dies\".\n\nShe played in duo with Henning Moritzen in the Danish segment of short film collection \"Visions of Europe\". The segment is called \"Europe doesn't exist\" and it was directed by Christoffer Boe.\n\nShe starred in the Bryan Adams' 1995 music video, \"Have You Ever Really Loved a Woman?\" directed by Anton Corbijn.\n\nThomsen is a Buddhist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2843958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2843958", "title": "Charlotte Sainton-Dolby", "text": "Charlotte Sainton-Dolby\n\nCharlotte Helen Sainton-Dolby (17 May 182118 February 1885), was an English contralto, singing teacher and composer.\n\nCharlotte Helen Dolby was born in London to Samuel Dolby and Charlotte Niven. Her father died when she was 10 years old. She studied at the Royal Academy of Music from 1832 to 1837, Domenico Crivelli being her principal singing-master. In 1837 she was elected to a King's scholarship, and first appeared at a Royal Philharmonic Society concert in 1841. In October 1845 she sang at the Gewandhaus, Leipzig, through the influence of Mendelssohn, who had been delighted by her singing in his oratorio \"St. Paul\". The contralto music in his \"Elijah\" was written for her voice, but she did not appear in that work until the performance at Exeter Hall on 16 April 1847.\n\nShe was a principal soloist in the first English performance of Bach's \"St Matthew Passion\", directed by William Sterndale Bennett at the Hanover Square Rooms London on 6 April 1854.\n\nShe married the violinist Prosper Sainton in 1860, and in 1870 she retired from the career of a public singer, but two years afterwards started a vocal academy in London. She made various successful attempts as a composer, and the cantatas \"The Legend of St Dorothea\" (1876), \"The Story of the Faithful Soul\" (1879), and \"Florimel\" (1885), enjoyed considerable success. Her last public appearance was at her husband's farewell concert in June 1883, and she died in 1885.\n\nA scholarship in her memory was founded at the Royal Academy of Music. Her voice was of moderate power and of fine quality, but it was her dignified and artistic style that gave her the high place she held for so many years both in oratorio and ballads.\n\n"}
{"id": "56516067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56516067", "title": "Chica and Heinz Schaller Foundation", "text": "Chica and Heinz Schaller Foundation\n\nThe Chica and Heinz Schaller Foundation is a charitable foundation in Heidelberg, Germany. Established by the scientists Chica Schaller and Heinz Schaller (co-founder of Biogen), its main objective is to support young scientists within the Heidelberg Science Community\n\nWith its 100,000€↑ prize money this yearly award is one of the highest awards for junior scientists in Germany. If more than one awardee is selected, each laureate receives the full sum.\nSince 2012 the Foundation funds Schaller Junior Research groups at the University of Heidelberg and DKFZ. Initially five groups were funded for a period of five years with the possibility of a two year extension.\nIn Fall 2017 four new group leaders were selected by the interdisciplinary committee.\n\nBetween 2002 and 2012 the Foundation Ralf Bartenschlager held the chair for Molecular Virology before being appointed full professor at the University of Heidelberg\n\n"}
{"id": "24306166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24306166", "title": "Create a Comic Project", "text": "Create a Comic Project\n\nThe Create a Comic Project (CCP) is a youth literacy program and webcomic created by John Baird. The program uses comics, many taken from the Internet, to encourage children to write their own narratives. The program began in November 2006 at the main branch of the New Haven Free Public Library as an after-school program. The project has since worked with several other groups, including the Children's Museum of Pittsburgh, Braddock Carnegie Library, and the Pittsburgh YMCA. Baird has presented the results of his work on the project at several conventions and conferences, including South by Southwest Interactive and SXSWedu. The project has been praised for its work in engaging children in learning by Marjorie Scardino, CEO of Pearson, Professor Mirta Ojito of Columbia University, and Arne Duncan, the US Secretary of Education.\n\nThe webcomic side of the project posts comics made by the children. The website was launched 4 January 2007. Archives of the Taiwan comics, labeled \"Create a Comic Project ROC\" or \"CCP Version 1.0,\" go from 9 July 2005 through 28 November 2006. Comics generated in America, labeled \"CCP Version 2.0,\" were first posted 29 November 2006 to present.\n\nThe Create a Comic Project was first conceived in the Republic of China while Baird was teaching English at Hess Educational Organization. He used it as an ESL activity in class. A version of the project was eventually published as part Hess's official curriculum materials in their \"Student Activities Booklet\", which is currently used in both the ROC and Singapore. One of Baird's inspirations was the \"Penny Arcade Remix Project\".\n\nAfter going to New Haven for graduate school at Yale University, Baird remade the project as a stand-alone activity for the New Haven Public Library. Library staffers called the program \"wonderful\" and that it had \"encouraged children to willingly express their creativity.\" In Pittsburgh, Baird hosted a number of workshops in the city before entering into a year-long collaboration with the Greater Pittsburgh YMCA's summer camp and after-school programs. While attending Teachers College, Columbia University, Baird brought the project into several area schools in the city, including LaGuardia High School and The School at Columbia University. From 2010 to 2012, the project was based in Houston, Texas, where Baird has given workshops to employees at the University of Texas Charter School and was invited to give workshops at the Conference for the Advancement of Math Teaching in 2011. The project is currently on hiatus.\n\nThe program hosted regular comic tournaments at the New Haven Library from 2007 to 2011. They were funded by grant awards from the Community Foundation for Greater New Haven. The CCP is the single largest multi-webcomic collaborative project of its kind. It was the only comic-based children's program of its type in New Haven and Pittsburgh.\n\nIn 2009, Baird and other webcomic creators held a panel and two project-based workshops at Otakon. The project has also hosted panels and workshops at Tekkoshocon in 2009 and 2010. John was named a Featured Panelist for Otakon 2012 for his series of workshops. A Wheaton University student has created art for the project's official materials.\n\nVarious comic creators allow Baird to use their work for the \"Create a Comic Project\". The first webcomic ever used was \"Okashina Okashi - Strange Candy\", with others following later. They include (in alphabetical order):\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21093168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21093168", "title": "Dan Guenther", "text": "Dan Guenther\n\nDan Guenther, born in Waukegan, Illinois, in 1944, is an American novelist and poet. A graduate of Coe College, he has a Master of Fine Arts from the Iowa Writers' Workshop. He was a captain in the U.S. Marine Corps. His poems and letters from Vietnam, during the Vietnam War, were included in the acclaimed novel, The Stones of Summer by Dow Mossman, published by Bobbs-Merrill in 1972 and republished by Barnes & Noble in 2003. In 2002, Guenther appeared in the documentary film Stone Reader by Mark Moskowitz. The film chronicled the director's attempt to revive and have republished the acclaimed book of seemingly vanished author Dow Mossman, a lifelong friend of Dan Guenther. The revival was successful.\n\n\"High Country Solitudes\" (Grand River, 1997) is Dan Guenther's first book of poetry. He also has published poems in small magazines \n\nand anthologies, most recently, \"Open Range: Poetry of the Reimagined West\", Ghost Road Press, 2007, and \"The Quadrant Book of Poetry 2001 – 2010,\" Quadrant Books, 2012, Sydney, Australia.\n\n\"China Wind\", the first novel in the Vietnam trilogy, was originally published in 1990. \"Dodge City Blues\", the second novel in the trilogy, was published in 2007 and has been praised by Veteran Magazine for its realism. The third novel,\"Townsend's Solitaire\", was published in 2008 and has been described by Veteran Magazine as Sam Gatlin's \"readjustment blues.\"\n\n\"Glossy Black Cockatoos\", Guenther's fourth novel, was published in late 2009. It is set in Australia and Asia, among the Hmong. \nThe Colorado Authors' League judged \"Glossy Black Cockatoos\" the Best Genre Fiction of 2010.\n\n\"The Crooked Truth\", Dan Guenther's second volume of poetry, was the 2011 winner for Poetry book in the Colorado Authors' League\nopen competition. About \"The Crooked Truth\", Vietnam Veterans Magazine literary critic David Willson stated, \"There is no mawkish sentimentality anywhere in this little book because of Guenther’s plain-yet-elegant language. Dan Guenther remains one of the finest poets of the Vietnam War.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Stone Reader\" (2002)\n\nColorado Author Award 2008\n\nColorado Author Best Genre Fiction 2010\n\nColorado Author Award 2011\n\n\n"}
{"id": "650574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=650574", "title": "Department of Bantu Education", "text": "Department of Bantu Education\n\nThe Department of Bantu Education was an organ created by the National Party government of South Africa in 1953. The Bantu Education Act, 1953 provided the legislative framework for this department.\n\nBefore the passage of the Bantu Education Act, apartheid in education tended to be implemented in a haphazard and uneven manner. The purpose of the act was to consolidate Bantu education, i.e. education of black people, so that discriminatory educational practices could be uniformly implemented across South Africa. Previously, black education was administered by provincial governments. With the creation of the department, the central national government assumed control of all black education in South Africa. Racial segregation in education became mandatory under the Act.\n\nInitially, a poll tax levied solely on black South Africans was collected to pay for Bantu education. In 1972 the government started using general taxes collected from whites to fund a portion of black education. One of the hallmarks of Bantu education was a disparity between the quality of education available to different ethnic groups. Black education received one tenth of the resources allocated to white education; throughout apartheid, black children were educated in classes with teacher:pupil ratios of 1:56. Dilapidated school buildings, a lack of textbooks and poor teacher training were problems which the department was never able (or willing) to address.\n\nThe department sought to equip black students with the abilities needed to function as low-skilled workers. Abstract thinking and subjects deemed to be of no use to manual laborers (such a mathematics and science) were neglected. Teaching an apartheid-friendly version of Christian values to students was also prioritized. In educational materials, black culture was portrayed as primitive, rural and unchanging.\n\nMany missionary societies provided education to black schoolchildren. These schools were partially funded by the national government but operated with some autonomy. Racial segregation was not a defining feature of missionary education. The Bantu Education Act consolidated educational apartheid and forced mission schools to implement strict racial segregation in order to qualify for financial assistance. Many mission schools refused to co-operate with the National Party government, and ceased operating after the passage of the act.act\n\nIn 1994, after South Africa's first multiracial elections, the department ceased to operate. All of its functions were absorbed by several government departments. Though the post-apartheid government has committed itself to providing quality schooling to students of all races, education in South Africa continues to be hampered by the legacy of the department and other institutions.\n"}
{"id": "41406032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41406032", "title": "Diploma in Teaching in the Lifelong Learning Sector", "text": "Diploma in Teaching in the Lifelong Learning Sector\n\nThe Diploma in Teaching in the Lifelong Learning Sector (DTLLS) was an initial teacher training qualification, studied at QCF Level 5 or 7, for teaching in Further Education (FE) and the lifelong learning sector of education in the United Kingdom. The DTLLS was the highest of the teaching qualifications specifically for this sector of education, the others being the Certificate in Teaching in the Lifelong Learning Sector (CTLLS) and the Preparing to Teach in the Lifelong Learning Sector (PTLLS) qualifications. The DTLLS at QCF Level 7 was equivalent to a Post-Graduate Certificate in Education in Lifelong Learning or Post-Compulsory Education and Training (PCET). The DTLLS was phased out along with the CTLLS and the PTLLS, and replaced with the Diploma in Education and Training qualification at QCF Level 5.\n"}
{"id": "42609975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42609975", "title": "FlightPath (software)", "text": "FlightPath (software)\n\nFlightPath is an open-source, web-based academic advising system designed for universities. Originally created by The University of Louisiana at Monroe, the software package was released as open-source on March 13, 2013.\n\nFlightPath is designed to facilitate more accurate advising sessions on campus, as well as provide a complete history of past advising sessions. Advisors may select which courses they wish a student to register in, up to several semesters in to the future, as well as leave comments for the student and other campus staff. Students and advisors may also try out other degrees using the \"What If?\" tool, to see their courses applied to a different degree plan.\n\nFlightPath was created by The University of Louisiana at Monroe's Student Success Center, after searching for a commercial solution to online academic advising and retention services, but failing to find a software package which was both affordable and provided the required features. The original release of FlightPath, in Fall of 2006, was functional but lacked the framework necessary for contributions from the open source community. By 2012, FlightPath's core code had been modified to resemble many of the development framework features of Drupal, a popular open-source CMS, making it now suitable for adoption by other universities. FlightPath has since been made mobile-friendly, and is now part of ULM's mobile app.\n\nFlightPath's core features are centered on the functionality of advising and degree audit, and are expanded through the downloading of add-on modules.\n\nSome of the core features are as follows:\n\n\nFlightPath's functionality is extensible through the use of add-on modules. Below are a handful of examples:\n\n\nInstalling FlightPath is relatively straightforward. Its source code is copied onto a compatible server, then visited from a web browser. An automated installation wizard then guides the user through the remainder of the setup process.\n\nFlightPath uses industry-standard web server hardware and software:\n\n"}
{"id": "11324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11324", "title": "Free On-line Dictionary of Computing", "text": "Free On-line Dictionary of Computing\n\nThe Free On-line Dictionary of Computing (FOLDOC) is an online, searchable, encyclopedic dictionary of computing subjects.\n\nFOLDOC was founded in 1985 by Denis Howe and was hosted by Imperial College London. In May 2015, the site was updated to state that it was \"no longer supported by Imperial College Department of Computing\". Howe has served as the editor-in-chief since the dictionary's inception, with visitors to the website able to make suggestions for additions or corrections to articles.\n\nThe dictionary incorporates the text of other free resources, such as the Jargon File, as well as covering many other computing-related topics. Due to its availability under the GNU Free Documentation License, a copyleft license, it has in turn been incorporated in whole or part into other free content projects, such as Wikipedia.\n\n"}
{"id": "30981118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30981118", "title": "Gedo Education Committee", "text": "Gedo Education Committee\n\nGedo Education Committee or GEC for short is an education service organization which is based in south west Somali region of Gedo.\n\nGEC was created to unite the school systems in the seven districts of Gedo region. Gedo Region's seven school districts are Beled Hawo, Bardera, Buurdhuubo, Doolow, El Wak, Garbaharey and Luuq.\n\nFor more than a decade, starting mid 1990s, disconnected schools appeared all across Gedo region. GEC chairman Ahmed Abdirahman Kaynan, thought of creating a center which cateres to all school districts in terms of unified curriculum and exam board center.\n\nMr. Kaynan has long experience in working with educational institutions and setting up school boards. Uniting schools from seven school boards in all seven districts of Gedo will create an estimated student body of 60,000 students from grade one to grade 12.\n\nGEC is headquartered in Bardera, Gedo's largest city. All cities from Dolow to El Wak will have representatives sitting in the administration office.\n\nOne of the GEC's important activities will be offering annual teacher training opportunities in Gedo region as well as seminars designed to enhance teachers' qualities.\n\nTeacher training services will increase the available pool teachers in Gedo where districts can draw more teacher for their school systems.\n\nGEC's exam board is based in Bardera. Some of the task this office performs include preparing exams for all districts and grading final exams collected from grade and the last year of high school as the custom is in East Africa school systems.\n\nCurrently, towns in Gedo which have the largest school populations are Bardera, Beled Hawo, Garbaharey, El Ade, Luuq, Buurdhuubo, and Doolow. Only Bardera, Garbaharey, Beled Hawo and El Ade have up to secondary schools. El Wak and Dolow have the least district level school developments.\n\nHigh school students from Gedo region have an opportunity to be part of new in-takes from the University of Gedo and Bardera Polytechnic. Each year about 300 students will find tertiary study spots at these institutions and they are both based in Bardera.\n"}
{"id": "44046723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44046723", "title": "Gesualdo Lanza", "text": "Gesualdo Lanza\n\nGesualdo Lanza (1779–1859) was an Italian teacher of music who made his career in London.\n\nBorn in Naples in 1779, he was son of Giuseppe Lanza, an Italian composer who spent many years in England, and for some time was musician to John Hamilton, 1st Marquess of Abercorn. From his father Gesualdo received instruction in music, and became known in London as a singing-master. Among his pupils were Catherine Stephens (1807) and Anna Maria Tree (1812).\n\nIn 1842 Lanza started singing classes for exposition of his theories at 75 Newman Street; the fee was 15s. for twelve lessons. Later the same year he announced a series of lectures, \"The National School for Singing in Classes, free to the public\", and on 5 December 1842 he delivered \"A Lecture at the Westminster Literary and Scientific Institution illustrative of his new system of Teaching Singing in Classes\". He died in London on 12 March 1859.\n\nLanza published in London in 1817 the well-regarded \"Elements of Singing familiarly exemplified\". His other works included \"The Elements of Singing in the Italian and English Styles\" (London, 3 vols., 1809); \"Sunday Evening Recreations\" (London, 1840); \"Guide to System of Singing in Classes\" (London, 1842). He also composed a \"Stabat Mater\", preserved in the library of the Royal College of Music, solfeggi, and songs. He collaborated on Henry Rowley Bishop's first work, \"Angelina\".\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "10179776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10179776", "title": "International Hydrological Programme", "text": "International Hydrological Programme\n\nThe International Hydrological Programme (IHP) is UNESCO’s international scientific cooperative program in water research, water resource management, water education, and capacity- building, and the only broadly based science program of the UN system in this area. The program is tailored to the needs of UNESCO’s 195 Member States and is implemented in six-year phases, allowing it to adapt to the changing world.\n\nThe current phase (IHP VIII: 2014-2021) is titled Water Security Responses to Regional and Global Challenges (2014-2021), and it is based on the principle of continuity with change, building on lessons and results from earlier phases of the program. It continues to promote and lead international hydrological research, facilitate education and capacity development and enhance governance in water resources management. The aim of these efforts is to help meet the UN Millennium Development Goals on environmental sustainability, water supply, sanitation, food security and poverty alleviation. The results of this phase aim to be practical so both scientific communities and civil societies can apply and benefit from them.\n\nThe IHP Intergovernmental Council is responsible for defining priorities and supervising execution of IHP. The council is composed of 36 UNESCO Member States elected by UNESCO’s General Conference at its ordinary sessions every two years. Each of UNESCO’s six electoral regions elects Member States for membership in the council. The term lasts four years, and members are eligible for immediate re-election. For continuity, only half of the current Council members are elected each second year for the four-year period, so that in each biennium only half the members are newcomers and the rest are halfway through their term. The council normally meets once every two years, although extraordinary sessions may be convened under the conditions specified in the Rules of Procedure.\n\nAt the beginning of its first session, the council elects a chairperson and four vice-chairpersons. These constitute the IHP Bureau, which is responsible for coordinating sessions of the council and its committees, supervising implementation and reporting on the council’s resolutions, and discharging all other duties which it is assigned by the council.\n\nIHP’s activities are implemented by the efforts of its secretariat, located in UNESCO headquarters in Paris. The secretariat provides studies, information, and the facilities needed to employ the program’s activities. The backbone of IHP, however, is the network of National Committees. They are fundamental to ensuring the widest possible participation of Member States in IHP programs. The committees are run under the authority of National Governments and are responsible for implementing IHP initiatives.\n\nSeveral working groups have been developed under the umbrella of the International Hydrological Programme as the UNESCO Land Subsidence International Initiative, LASII (former UNESCO Working Group on Land Subsidence).\n\n"}
{"id": "48314166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48314166", "title": "Jasmin Vardimon Company", "text": "Jasmin Vardimon Company\n\nJasmin Vardimon Company is a UK based contemporary dance-theatre company. The Company was founded in London in 1997 (incorporated in 2001), and became a significant element within the British dance scene. The company is dedicated to the choreography of Artistic Director, Jasmin Vardimon – Associate Artist of Sadler's Wells Theatre since 2006.\n\nJasmin Vardimon Company (formerly Zbang Dance Company) produces and tours contemporary dance theatre productions that combines text with movement, voice, animation and technologies. Large and complex set designs are part of their productions, and the company continues to explore new ways of combining various art forms to create multilayered productions that communicate and engage audiences on many different levels. Jasmin Vardimon Company tours throughout the UK and across the globe. Recent tours include, Spain, Germany, Italy, Croatia, Israel, South Korea, and the USA.\n\nThe Jasmin Vardimon Company relocated to Ashford, Kent in 2012, opening The Jasmin Vardimon Production Space as its new creative home. The production space is dedicated to the company's creative research and future productions, as well as education residencies and multi-disciplinary artistic study. The production space is supported by Ashford Borough Council, Ashford Leisure Trust and Arts Council England.\n\nJasmin Vardimon Company is funded regularly by the Arts Council England and has also been commissioned by many arts institutions and funding bodies such as Sadler's Wells Theatre, Brighton Dome, Kent County Council, The Place, Marlowe Theatre, The Lowry, La Comète (France), National Theatre Studio, South East Dance, Hall for Cornwall, Exeter Northcott Theatre, Take Art, Soho Theatre, DanceXchange, Gardner Arts, Lichfield Garrick Theatre, Laban Centre, Welsh Independent Dance, Yorkshire Dance, Esmée Fairbairn Foundation, Jerwood Foundation and Ovalhouse.\n\n\nThe Jasmin Vardimon Educational Company engages thousands of participants each year, from young people in schools and community projects to professional development programmes.\n\nIn 2009, Vardimon developed a Higher Education programme, which has since been led by her company as a Postgraduate Certificate in Physical Theatre for Dancers and Actors at Royal Holloway, University of London.\n\nThe Postgraduate Certificate in Physical Theatre for Dancers and Actors is a \"Continuing Professional Development course for postgraduate experienced dancers and actors moving into a new area of new work – namely dance theatre. This course introduces new techniques that combine vocal, kinaesthetic and visual skills and responses.\"\n\nSince September 2011, Vardimon has been a Visiting Professor at the University of Wolverhampton and Jasmin Vardimon Company donates an annual prize for drama graduates of the university.\n\nIn 2012, the Jasmin Vardimon Educational Company launched JV2, a one year Professional Development Certificate course, based in Ashford at the Jasmin Vardimon Production Space. The JV2 course aims to develop, encourage and cultivate young talent and young audiences. It is a practical course designed to bridge the gap between student and professional life, and aims to train participants as versatile and multi-disciplinary performers by exploring the dialogue between dance and theatre, improving strength, endurance and technique. Towards the end of the course the students form a young company, experiencing touring nationally alongside the Jasmin Vardimon Company. \nOther community-based projects that the Jasmin Vardimon Educational Company take part in organising and delivering include, INSPIRE, People United, ART31, Big Dance, National Youth Dance Company, Youth Justice System Intensive Week; NHS workshops with Speech Language and Communication Caseload; and Kent Public Health Six Ways to Wellbeing Creative Commissioning projects.\n"}
{"id": "55168473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55168473", "title": "Katarzyna de Lazari-Radek", "text": "Katarzyna de Lazari-Radek\n\nKatarzyna de Lazari-Radek (born 7 August 1975) is a Polish utilitarian philosopher and an assistant professor at the Institute of Philosophy at University of Łódź.\n\nShe has also taught at a summer seminar on utilitarian ethics at the European Graduate School and Spring School for PhD students at the Dutch Research School of Philosophy. She is best known for her collaborations with the Australian philosopher Peter Singer.\n\nIn their 2012, 2014 and 2016 collaborations she and Singer set out to explain and defend act utilitarianism and suggest a resolution to what the late 19th century British philosopher Henry Sidgwick called “the profoundest problem of ethics”, the apparent rationality of both ethical egoism and utilitarianism. She and Singer use an evolutionary debunking argument to damage egoism but leave utilitarianism unscathed. In \"On What Matters\" Vol 3. Oxford philosopher Derek Parfit (1942–2017) expressed the view that their argument against the rationality of egoism carried \"some force\" though, as Lazari-Radek and Singer themselves acknowledge, it is not \"decisive\".\n\nIn his review of Lazari-Radek and Singer’s book, \"The Point of View of the Universe: Sidgwick and Contemporary Ethics (2014)\", philosopher Bart Schultz, director of the Civic Knowledge Project at the University of Chicago, describes de Lazari-Radek as “a rising star … of philosophical utilitarianism”, stating that their “book might well represent the most significant statement and defense of act utilitarianism since the 19th century, when the classical utilitarianism of Bentham, Mill, and Sidgwick were the spirit of the age.” De Lazari-Radek defends a form of act utilitarianism similar to that of Sidgwick whose work was the focus of her doctoral dissertation entitled “Good and Reason in the Moral Philosophy of Henry Sidgwick (2007).”\n\nDe Lazari-Radek also draws insights from more contemporary thinkers like Parfit who classified her and Singer’s view that we have most reason to do whatever would be impartially best as a form of \"Rational Impartialism\".\n\nIn July 2017 her and Singer’s second book was published \"Utilitarianism: A Very Short Introduction,\" of which Jeff McMahan, White's Professor of Moral Philosophy, Oxford University, has said: \"Written with characteristic clarity by the acknowledged heirs of the founders of utilitarianism, this discussion is authoritative, sympathetic though not uncritical, and remarkably comprehensive - in a word, ideal.\"\n\nDe Lazari-Radek explains her normative position as a hedonistic utilitarian. She persuaded Singer to embrace hedonism instead of preference utilitarianism during their collaboration on The Point of View of the Universe.\nShe is exploring the matter more carefully in her two upcoming books on well being and pleasure in Polish and English. \n\nDe Lazari-Radek lives and works in Łódź, Poland. She is married and has two children. Apart from being a philosopher she is an enthusiastic jogger and gardener.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55835331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55835331", "title": "Kateb University", "text": "Kateb University\n\nKateb University is a private university established in 2007, located in the city of Kabul, Afghanistan.\n\nThe Kateb University having the following faculties:\n\n"}
{"id": "22291119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22291119", "title": "Kultusministerkonferenz", "text": "Kultusministerkonferenz\n\nThe Kultusministerkonferenz (literally \"conference of ministers of education\") is the assembly of ministers of education of the German states. The body is not part of the federal government, and its directives do not immediately become effective, but first will have to be turned into state law.\n\nThe full title of the Kultusministerkonferenz is \"Ständige Konferenz der Kultusminister der Länder in der Bundesrepublik Deutschland\" (\"The Standing Conference of the Ministers of Education and Cultural Affairs of the Länder in the Federal Republic of Germany\"), but it is usually called the \"Kultusministerkonferenz\", abbreviated KMK. The assembly was founded in 1948 under the name \"Konferenz der deutschen Erziehungsminister\" (literally \"Conference of German ministers of education\"), before the foundation of the German postwar republics.\n\nToday it is the voluntary assembly of the appointed state ministers of education and research. Funded by the states there are a number of KMK offices and committees - there are currently 220 positions based on a finance of 50 Million Euro. There are three main branches of \"Schulausschuss\" (\"school formation committee\" for primary and secondary education), \"Hochschulausschuss\" (\"academic formation committee\" for universities and tertiary education) and \"Kulturausschuss\" (\"cultural aspects committee\" for media and arts). These are subdivied into 16 subcommittees and a number of working groups. Furthermore five commissioner offices are funded being the \"Amtschef-Kommission Qualitätssicherung in Schulen\" (\"commissioner office for quality control in school formation\"), \"Amtschef-Kommission Qualitätssicherung in Hochschulen\" (\"commissioner office for quality control in academic formation\"), \"Kommission für Europäische und Internationale Angelegenheiten\" (\"commissioner office for European and international affairs\"), \"Kommission für Statistik\" (\"commissioner office for statistics\") and \"Kommission Sport\" (\"commissioner office for sports\").\n\nThe KMK is special in the way that there is no federal legislation for education in Germany, as the Basic Law does not give power to the Federacy to legislate on the matter (thus creating effectually a \"Kulturhoheit der Länder\" or cultural sovereignty of the states). Other voluntary state conferences are paralleled on the federal level like the Innenministerkonferenz (the assembly of ministers for police and security - executive branch) and Justizministerkonferenz (the assembly of ministers for justice - judicial branch) where federal law overrules state law. The KMK state directives however will overrule federal regulations which makes for the importance of the Kultusministerkonferenz in the political system of Germany - in most cases the federal minister for education will place joint committees with the KMK where the created law to take the form of a Staatsvertrag (\"state treaty\") passed by the state governments.\n\nIn the course of the Förderalismusreform (reform of the responsibilities between federal government and state länder) in the years 2003 to 2006 the structure of the Kultusministerkonferenz was under dispute as well. This led the state of Lower Saxony to leave the Kultusministerkonferenz in September 2004 coming back to the KMK in December 2004 after resolutions that had led to lower the funding of the KMK offices by 20%. However in the last years the KMK was given extra funding to support PISA studies and the reform of the academic system in the Bologna process.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31509756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31509756", "title": "Low flying military training", "text": "Low flying military training\n\nLow flying military training involves military aircraft flying at low altitude to prepare their aircrew, and other military personnel (e.g. air defence troops), for nap-of-the-earth flying in wartime. The aircraft types can include advanced trainers, ground-attack aircraft, transports and helicopters.\n\nSome countries have sufficiently large military reservations for such training to take place without affecting the civilian population. In smaller countries, such as in Europe, there can be tension between the military and the local population—mainly because of aircraft noise.\n\nLow-level flying involves air safety hazards such as: \n\nThe noise can also disturb animals and hence cause a hazard to horse-riders etc.\n\nIn the UK, \"low flying\" means fixed-wing aircraft at less than 2000 feet from the ground or light propeller driven aircraft and helicopters below 500 feet from the ground.\n\nLow flying is permitted across the majority of the UK except for large urban areas, civil airports and some industrial and medical sites. Fixed-wing aircraft can fly down to 250 ft above ground level at a speed of up to 450 kt. Lower height limits apply for helicopters and in certain parts of mid Wales, Northern England and Northern Scotland, designated \"Tactical Training Areas\".\n\nFor safety and to minimise disturbance to the public, military aircrew training at low level is constrained by rules. A specialist military police unit conducts covert monitoring using mobile radar and investigates alleged infringements.\n\n"}
{"id": "7655134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7655134", "title": "Maejo University", "text": "Maejo University\n\nMaejo University (MJU.) (also spelled Maecho University, ) in Chiang Mai Province, Thailand, is the oldest agricultural institution in the country. Founded in 1934 as the Northern Agricultural Teachers Training School, it was restructured and renamed several times until it gained the status of a full-fledged public university in 1996 and since then has been known as Maejo University.\n\nMaejo University main campus at Chiang Mai is composed of the faculties of Business, Economics, Liberal Arts, Tourism Development, Information Technology, Fisheries Technology and Aquatic Resources, Animal Sciences and Technology, Renewable Energy, Administrative, Landscape and Environmental Design, Agricultural Production, Science, and Engineering and Agro-Industry. In addition to these, the university has two smaller campuses in Phrae and Chumphon.\n\nInside a ring with \"Maejo\" in Thai and English, the logo depicts Thailand's symbol of agriculture, the lord of rain Phra Phirune mounted on a Nāga (). The symbol may be seen at Google images.\n\nEvery centre of learning in Thailand has its \"genius loci\" and many have a tutelary deity, but Maejo adopted the Pistol Pete (Oklahoma State University) mascot following Oklahoma State's 2005 Distinguished International Alumni Award to President Thep Phongparnich.\n\n"}
{"id": "39624890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39624890", "title": "Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi Memorial Lecture", "text": "Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi Memorial Lecture\n\nThe Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi Memorial Lecture was started by the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) on 6 February 2013. It was established to honour the former Indian captain Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi, who died in 2011. The inaugural Lecture was delivered by former captain of the Indian cricket team Sunil Gavaskar on 20 February 2013, at the Taj Coromandel hotel in Chennai. The BCCI indicated that the lecture would be an annual event.\n\nMansur Ali Khan was an Indian cricketer and former captain of the Indian cricket team. He was Nawab of Bhopal until 1971, when India abolished royal entitlements through the 26th Amendment to the Constitution of India. He was an \"Indian Cricket\" Cricketer of the Year in 1962, and a Wisden Cricketer of the Year in 1968. He published an autobiography, \"Tiger's Tale\", in 1969. He was the manager of the India team in 1974–75, and referee for two Ashes Tests in 1993. He was later a member of the council of the Indian Premier League. Mr. Pataudi was admitted to New Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on 22 September 2011 with an acute lung infection caused by chronic interstitial lung disease which prevented his lungs from exchanging oxygen properly. He died of respiratory failure the same day.\n\nThe BCCI decided to start the memorial lecture after Mr Pataudi's wife and Bollywood actress Sharmila Tagore wrote a letter to the BCCI President N. Srinivasan. In the letter she criticised the BCCI for delaying the decision to institute the lecture. She also requested that the 2012 India-England cricket series be named after her husband. But the BCCI at that time expressed its inability to do so since the series had already been named the Anthony De Mello Trophy to honour the first BCCI secretary Anthony de Mello.\n\nOn the day of the memorial lecture's institution, the BCCI said in a press release, \n\nThe inaugural Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi Memorial Lecture was delivered by former Indian cricketer Sunil Gavaskar at the Taj Coromandel hotel in Chennai on 20 February 2013. In his lecture Gavaskar spoke at length about Mr Pataudi. He praised him for improving Indian cricket, saying, \"His adventurous style of play, his charisma, and his fondness for a practical joke changed how the game was played and perceived in the country.\" Several Indian and Australian cricketers who were part of the India-Australia cricket series were also present in the audience. Gavaskar wished the teams luck, and asked them to \"introduce a smile or two to what was sure to be a hard-fought series.\" The lecture was broadcast live on the website bcci.tv. Gavaskar also asked the cricket administrators to give Test cricket what it truly deserves.\n\nFor various reasons, none of the family of Mansur Pataudi could attend the lecture. Mrs Tagore could not attend because of food poisoning. She later said, \n\nAnil Kumble gave the second Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi Memorial Lecture on 13 November 2013 at the Crystal Room, The Taj Mahal Palace Hotel, Mumbai. The lecture was attended by members of the Pataudi family, former India captains, current and former office-bearers of the BCCI, senior representatives of the BCCI’s Affiliated Units and the Indian and West Indian teams.\n\nVVS Laxman gave the third Mansur Ali Khan Pataudi Memorial Lecture on 12 November 2014 at The Taj Bengal, Kolkata.\n\nFormer Indian captain Rahul Dravid gave the fourth MAK Pataudi Memorial Lecture on 1 December 2015. He spoke about the junior level of the game and the \"need to invest as much energy, time and focus into India's youngest cricketers as we do for those at the elite level\".\n\n"}
{"id": "4554043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4554043", "title": "Meg Wolitzer", "text": "Meg Wolitzer\n\nMeg Wolitzer (born May 28, 1959) is an American writer, known for \"The Wife\", \"The Ten-Year Nap\", \"The Uncoupling,\" \"The Interestings, and The Female Persuasion.\" She works as an instructor in the MFA program at Stony Brook Southampton.\n\nWolitzer was born in Brooklyn, New York, the daughter of Hilma Wolitzer (née Liebman), also a novelist, and Morton Wolitzer, a psychologist. She was raised Jewish. Wolitzer studied creative writing at Smith College and graduated from Brown University in 1981. She wrote her first novel, \"Sleepwalking\", a story of three college girls obsessed with poetry and death, while still an undergraduate; it was published in 1982. Her following books include \"Hidden Pictures\" (1986), \"This Is Your Life\" (1988), \"Surrender, Dorothy\" (1998), \"The Wife\" (2003), \"The Position\" (2005), \"The Ten-Year Nap\" (2008), \"The Uncoupling\" (2011), and \"The Interestings\" (2013). Her short story \"Tea at the House\" was featured in 1998's \"Best American Short Stories\" collection. Her novel for younger readers, \"The Fingertips of Duncan Dorfman\", was published in 2011.\n\nShe also co-authored, with Jesse Green, a book of cryptic crosswords: \"Nutcrackers: Devilishly Addictive Mind Twisters for the Insatiably Verbivorous\" (1991), and has written about the relative difficulty women writers face in gaining critical acclaim.\n\nShe has taught creative writing at the University of Iowa's Writers' Workshop, Skidmore College, and, most recently, was a guest artist at Princeton University. Over the past decade she has also taught at both Stony Brook Southampton's MFA in Creative Writing program and the Southampton Writers Conference and the Florence Writers Workshop. Three films have been based on her work; \"This Is My Life\", scripted and directed by Nora Ephron, the 2006 made-for-television movie, \"Surrender, Dorothy\", and the 2017 drama \"The Wife\", starring Glenn Close.\n\n\"The Uncoupling\" was the subject of the first coast-to-coast virtual book club discussion, via Skype.\n\n"}
{"id": "10153549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10153549", "title": "Mendiola Consortium", "text": "Mendiola Consortium\n\nMendiola Consortium (MC) is an educational organization of five institutions located along the street of Mendiola in Manila, Philippines. It was founded on July 16, 1974 upon the invitation of then Centro Escolar University President Dionisio Tiongco to the heads of San Beda University, College of the Holy Spirit and La Consolacion College Manila.\n\nThey agreed to unite their resources to enhance the capability of providing quality education and public service, and to participate more effectively in the attainment of national development. It is through the MC schools that Mendiola street have become a peace zone since it was traditionally a site of rallies because of its proximity to Malacañan Palace.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5403612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5403612", "title": "Method (music)", "text": "Method (music)\n\nIn music, a method is a kind of textbook for a specified musical instrument or a selected problem of playing a certain instrument.\n\nA \"method\" usually contains fingering charts or tablatures, etc., scales and numerous different exercises, sometimes also simple etudes, in different keys, in ascending order as to difficulty (= in methodical \"progression\") or with a focus on isolated aspects like fluency, rhythm, dynamics, articulation and the like. Sometimes there are even recital pieces, also with accompaniment. Such methods differ from etude books in that they are meant as a linear course for a student to follow, with consistent guidance, whereas volumes of etudes are not as comprehensive.\n\nAs typical instrumental methods are meant to function as textbooks supporting an instrumental teacher (rather than to facilitate self-teaching), usually no basic or special playing techniques are covered in any depth. Detailed instructions in this respect are only found in special, autodidactical methods.\n\nSome methods are especially tailored for students on certain skill levels or stages of psychosocial development. In contrast, a 'complete' method (sometimes in multiple volumes) is meant to accompany the student until he or she becomes an advanced player.\n\nMethods of certain authors or editors have achieved the status of standard works (reflecting regional and cultural differences) and are published or reissued by different publishing companies and in divers (new) arrangements. The Suzuki Method is probably the most well known example of this.\n\nThe following is a list of various methods of historical interest.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2847650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2847650", "title": "Mike Smith (football manager)", "text": "Mike Smith (football manager)\n\nMichael John Smith (born 1937) is a former football manager, who managed the Wales and Egypt national teams and Hull City. Before becoming a manager, he had a playing career as an amateur, playing for the Corinthian Casuals.\n\nSmith was born in Hendon, the son of a professional footballer. As a youth, he represented Middlesex at Under-15 and Under-18 levels and was a member of the FA Youth team which played a tournament in Strasbourg in 1953.\n\nHe trained at Loughborough College of Education before becoming a teacher. He decided to remain in teaching rather than becoming a professional footballer but played as an amateur for the Corinthian Casuals.\n\nSmith spent nine years coaching in Sussex before becoming team manager and coach to the Conference of English Grammar Schools. He was then appointed the Football Association of Wales Director of Coaching with responsibility for managing the Welsh amateur and youth international teams.\n\nIn 1974, Smith succeeded Dave Bowen to become the first English-born manager and first full-time manager of the Wales national football team, and guided Wales to through their qualifying group before losing a play-off against Yugoslavia to reach the Finals proper 1976 European Football Championship. He was replaced by Mike England in 1979.\n\nIn December 1979, he was appointed manager of Hull City but was sacked, along with coach Cyril Lea in March 1982.\n\nFollowing a spell in sports promotion in Nottingham, Smith became the manager of Egypt in 1985. He led the team to victory in the 1986 African Cup of Nations; the only British manager to have won the competition as a coach.\n\nHe left the Egyptian side in 1988, following which he was appointed Football development consultant to Anglesey County Council, overseeing their school of excellence in Holyhead. He also took charge of the Wales Youth team in 1989–90 before returning to the Wales national team role for 18 months from April 1994 to September 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47812402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47812402", "title": "Ministry of Education (Argentina)", "text": "Ministry of Education (Argentina)\n\nThe Minister of education of Argentina deals with the education in Argentina.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15306580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15306580", "title": "Montessori in the United States", "text": "Montessori in the United States\n\nThis article discusses Montessori in the United States.\n\nAfter 1907, Maria Montessori's work spread quickly all around the world, soon reaching the USA, where many well-regarded public figures, Alexander Graham Bell and his wife, Mabel, Thomas Edison, Woodrow Wilson \"et al.\", recognized the value of her work with children, and sought to encourage and collaborate with her.\n\nIn 1914, Montessori spoke to a standing-room-only audience at Carnegie Hall, in New York City. By 1915, she had been invited to participate in the Pan-Pacific World's Fair in San Francisco, celebrating the opening of the Panama Canal. There, she had set up a fully functioning classroom for display to the attending.\n\nThis early American enthusiasm for Montessori was short-lived, after the 1914 publication of \"The Montessori System Examined\", a harshly critical booklet by William Heard Kilpatrick, an advocate of John Dewey's theories of education; by 1920, Montessori schools had virtually disappeared from the US. The Montessori-method school resurgence did not occur until after 1960, when Nancy McCormick Rambusch and Margaret Stephenson, who each had worked with Montessori in Europe, separately went to the US.\n\nIn 1960, Rambusch organized the American Montessori Society (AMS) to Americanize the Montessori method and to make it relevant to the popular culture of the day. In 1958, the Whitby School was founded in Greenwich, Connecticut as the first AMS Montessori school in the US, followed in 1960 by the opening of the Sophia Montessori School opened by Screen actor, director, writer, Tom Laughlin with trained Montessorians Johannes and Joanna Laven, immigrants from Amsterdam. The school was later renamed Santa Monica Montessori School 2 In 1962 by the Caedmon School in New York City opened. Ernest Wood and Hilda Wood, who had worked with Maria Montessori in India, started the School of the Woods in 1962 as well, in Houston, Texas. The first Montessori school in the Southeast, Springmont, was founded in 1963 in Atlanta. In 1961, Mario Montessori, head of the Association Montessori Internationale(AMI), sent Stephenson as his personal representative to the United States, and was later given his permission to set up a branch office of AMI in the United States, which was established in 1970. The first Episcopal Montessori school in Florida, St. Christopher's By-the-Sea Episcopal Church and Montessori School, was founded in 1968 on Key Biscayne.\n\nIn 1967, a trademark dispute arose over the use of the term \"Montessori\" between AMS and AMI. This conflict was finally settled by the US Patent and Trademark Trial and Appeal Board in its action to refuse to grant exclusive use of the term \"Montessori\" to any one particular \"Montessori\" organization, holding that \"the term 'Montessori' has a generic and/or descriptive significance.\"\n\nDisputes over what is a Montessori school have been a continuing aspect of the history of Montessori education, arising especially around the various competing philosophies and interests involved in representing the Montessori method. Despite these conflicts, there are currently more than 5,000 schools identified in some way with the Montessori Method.\n\nBecause there is no single registry or even uniform definition of what constitutes a Montessori school, there is some dispute as to the number of private Montessori schools in the United States. Estimates range from just under 4,000 to greater than 8,000. There are about 250 public and 120 charter schools that include Montessori programs (see below). Most private schools have a primary program (from 3–6 years) and often a lower elementary (6–9 years). Upper elementary programs (9–12 years) are less common, although about one school in eight will have this program. At this time Montessori junior highs and high schools are rare. However, the first public Montessori high school in the country, Clark Montessori located in Cincinnati, Ohio, was started in 1994. Several pilot Montessori junior high schools have opened based on writings by Montessori on Erdkinder, German for \"children of the land\", which was a term Montessori coined for children ages 12 through 18. The last few years have seen the advent of infant and toddler Montessori programs. Many schools offer \"mother and child\" programs in which parents can learn about Montessori and how to apply the philosophy to their child-rearing practices. In many other schools, the demand for high-quality childcare has spurred the growth of Montessori infant, or \"nido\" (the Italian word for \"nest\") and toddler, or \"infant community\" programs.\n\nThe Montessori community has no central authority. AMI (Association Montessori Internationale) is the body that Maria Montessori founded in 1929, and of which she remained founder president until her death in 1952. Her son Mario Montessori was general director of AMI until his death in 1982. AMI endeavours to safeguard the teaching traditions passed down from Maria Montessori to current teachers (otherwise known as a \"guide\" or \"director/directress\") through the use of rigorously trained trainers. Although the American Montessori Society (AMS), located in New York City, is by far the largest Montessori organization in the United States, it affiliates only about 25 percent of the schools that call themselves “Montessori.” Many other schools across the country are affiliated with other Montessori organizations or with no organization at all.\n\nAccreditation and quality standards for Montessori teacher education are provided through the Montessori Accreditation Council for Teacher Education (MACTE) located in Charlottesville, Virginia. MACTE is the only national education accreditor recognized by the US Department of Education to accredit Montessori teacher education programs within colleges and universities, free standing institutions and distance education with 120 hours of residency. (MACTE does not accredit on-line programs that don't require a 120 hour residency and a practicum) Non-MACTE accredited programs cannot be considered diploma programs or trade schools, and holders of certifications from those training centers are not eligible to teach in most Montessori schools (other than those accredited by the training centers themselves). For Montessori schools, various organizations provide quality standards through affiliation, recognition, or membership according to their own particular philosophy, procedures and requirements. (see www.macte.org)\n\nIn the 1960s, a growing homeschool movement arose in the United States, due to parental concern about the quality and nature of the government system of free public schools. By 2003, the number of homeschooling children in the United States rose to over 1 million, an increase of some 29% from 1999. In this growing context, parents have been seeking to use the Montessori Method as well. For example, Elizabeth Hainstock, a homeschooling mother in the United States, used the Montessori method with her own children in the 1960s, and wrote about her experiences and knowledge on the subject in several books to guide other parents interested in using the Montessori method at home. No reliable figure exists of the number of homeschoolers using materials or methods borrowed from Montessori.\n\nPublic school districts in the U.S. began experimenting with Montessori classrooms in the mid 1970s in Arlington, Virginia; Philadelphia; Reading, Ohio; and San Mateo, California. By the mid-1980s there were about 50 sites. With funding support from federal magnet grants and desegregation efforts, that number surpassed 200 by the beginning of the 21st century.\n\nA survey conducted in 1981 collected data from 25 of the approximately 57 school districts nationwide known to have Montessori programs at the time of this study. Another study of public Montessori programs from 1990–91 received responses from 63 of the 120 school districts or schools to whom surveys were sent. As of July 2013, the Census Project of the National Center for Montessori in the Public Sector reported 443 public Montessori schools in the United States and Puerto Rico.\n\nResults from the 1991 study indicated that the number of students in the schools or school districts averaged 233, with an average of 10 teachers per program. A total of 32, or 58%, of the schools surveyed reported that they were magnet schools. A total of 69% of the Montessori programs shared a building with other programs. District funding for the training of Montessori teachers was provided in 66% of the districts. Only 42% of the programs provided the three-year age span of three-, four-, and five-year-olds. This indicates that the degree to which particular districts implement the Montessori model varies. A total of 16 of the 57 schools charged tuition for some part of the program. About two thirds of the programs provided free transportation. In addition, two thirds of the districts reported that additional staff were used in the Montessori magnet schools. These factors can add to the overall costs of the program.\n\nA survey in 2004 by Heather Bilton for her dissertation found that in public Montessori schools:\n• About half the students receive free or reduced price lunch\n• Most principals do not have Montessori training\n• A bit more than half of the teachers have Montessori credentials\n• Most have chosen to use materials that are not \"Montessori\"\nIn January 2007, \"The Washington Post\" published an article titled \"Montessori, Now 100, Goes Mainstream\". The article discussed the increasing number of Montessori public school programs, particularly in African American communities.\n\nThe article goes on to discuss how Montessori has been implemented in the public schools, and has become an attractive option to black, middle class parents because it provides an alternative to the \"No Child Left Behind\" strategies in most current public school curricula.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24861242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24861242", "title": "My Science Career", "text": "My Science Career\n\nThe My Science Career website is an Irish online resource for career information in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM).\n\nThe website has a famous Irish scientists section, science related articles, a science career glossary and a video interviews section with scientists about their work. “A day in the life” section looks at the everyday working loves of Irish scientists and science broadcasters, ranging from a professor of biochemistry to a marine photographer.\n\nA “Science Ambassadors” section profiles Irish scientists on what it’s like working in various fields and the qualifications they have. The Science Ambassadors range from newly qualified graduates to well established researchers.\n\nMyScienceCareer.ie is an initiative of Ireland’s national integrated awareness programme Discover Science & Engineering (DSE), a government initiative. DSE runs numerous other initiatives, including Science.ie, Science Week Ireland and Discover Primary Science.\n\n"}
{"id": "38314163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38314163", "title": "Next Generation Science Standards", "text": "Next Generation Science Standards\n\nThe Next Generation Science Standards is a multi-state effort in the United States to create new education standards that are \"rich in content and practice, arranged in a coherent manner across disciplines and grades to provide all students an internationally benchmarked science education.\" The standards were developed by a consortium of 26 states and by the National Science Teachers Association, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the National Research Council, and Achieve, a nonprofit organization that was also involved in developing math and English standards. The public was also invited to review the standards, and organizations such as the California Science Teachers Association encouraged this feedback. The final draft of the standards was released in April 2013.\n\nThe purposes of the standards include combatting ignorance of science, creating common standards for teaching in the U.S., and developing greater interest in science among students so that more of them choose to major in science and technology in college. Overall, the guidelines are intended to help students deeply understand core scientific concepts, to understand the scientific process of developing and testing ideas, and to have a greater ability to evaluate scientific evidence. Curricula based on the standards may cover fewer topics, but will go more deeply into specific topics, possibly using a case-study method and emphasizing critical thinking and primary investigation. Possible approaches to implementing the standards may even include replacing traditionally isolated high school courses such as biology and chemistry with a case-study approach that uses a more holistic method of teaching science to consider both (or more) topics within a single classroom structure. Many education supply companies have already started offering NGSS-aligned products and resources to help teachers implement these new principles.\n\nThe Next Generation Science Standards (NGSS) are based on the \"Framework K–12 Science Education\" that was created by the National Research Council. They have three dimensions that are integrated in instruction at all levels. The first is core ideas, which consists of specific content and subject areas. The second is science and engineering practices. Students are expected not just to learn content but to understand the methods of scientists and engineers. The third is cross-cutting concepts: key underlying ideas that are common to a number of topics. The NGSS give equal emphasis to engineering design and to scientific inquiry. In addition, they are aligned with the Common Core State Standards by grade and level of difficulty. The standards describe \"performance expectations\" for students in the area of science and engineering. They define what students must be able to do in order to show competency.\n\nAn important facet of the standards is that teaching of content is integrated with teaching the practices of scientists and engineers. This is a change from traditional teaching, which typically either dealt with these topics separately or didn't attempt to teach practices. According to NGSS, it is through the integration of content and practice \"that science begins to make sense and allows students to apply the material.\"\n\nOver 40 states have shown interest in the standards, and as of November 2017, 19 states, along with the District of Columbia (D.C.), have adopted the standards: Arkansas, California, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, \nIllinois, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maryland, Michigan, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Mexico, New Jersey, Oregon, Rhode Island, Vermont, and Washington. These represent over 35% of the students in U.S. \n\nUnlike the earlier roll-out of the Common Core (CC) math and English standards, states have no financial incentives from federal grants to adopt the Next Generation Science Standards. Previously, adoption of the CC standards was incentivized through states accepting federal grants during the 2009 TARP bailouts. Once states accepted the grant, they accepted the responsibility to adopt \"college and career readiness\" standards, which didn't have to be CC, but most states chose CC anyway.\n\nThe 26 states involved in developing the NGSS, called Lead State Partners, were Arizona, Arkansas, California, Delaware, Georgia, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Montana, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Oregon, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Tennessee, Vermont, Washington, and West Virginia.\n\nWhen the standards were released in April 2013, many states were expected to adopt them within one-to-two years. However, according to the \"New York Times\", it would take several more years to actually develop curricula based on the new guidelines, to train teachers in implementing them, and to revise standardized tests. In addition, the pace of adoption is expected to be slower than was seen with the Common Core State Standards because, unlike Common Core, in which the states had financial incentives to adopt, there are no similar incentives for the NGSS. Many education supply companies have started offering NGSS-aligned products and resources to help teachers adopt NGSS.\n\nNews reports have suggested there will likely be resistance towards the Next Generations Science Standards from conservatives due to the inclusion of anthropogenic climate change and evolution. For example, the New Mexico Public Education Department initially attempted to make changes and deletions in the standards prior to adopting them. According to Skeptical Inquirer, the \"proposed changes would have deleted key terms and concepts such as evolution and the 4.6-billion-year age of the Earth. Specifically, 'evolution' would be called 'biological diversity,' the specific age of the Earth would be changed to 'geologic history,' and a 'rise in global temperatures' would be changed to 'temperature fluctuations.'\" Following significant protests by the New Mexico Academy of Science, New Mexicans for Science and Reason, the Coalition for Excellence in Science and Engineering as well as scientists, educators, and faith leaders, the department announced in October 2017 that it would adopt the standards in their entirety. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "52986760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52986760", "title": "Olive Pond Amies", "text": "Olive Pond Amies\n\nOlive Pond Amies (c. 1844–1917) was an American educator, lecturer, and editor from the U.S. state of New York. She founded the training school for teachers in Lewiston, Maine; served as editor of a Universalist Church publication; and was the first president of the Woman's Health Protective Association of the United States. Amies favored the temperance movement and women's suffrage.\n\nOlive Ponds was born ca. 1844, in Jordan, New York. She was two weeks old when her father died, and the mother and child went to the home of the grandparents in New Britain, Connecticut. There the mother worked untiringly with her needle for the support of herself and her two children. The older child, a boy, was placed in the care of an uncle, and to Olive the mother took the place of father, mother, brother and sister. When Olive was four years old, the mother and child left the home of the grandmother and went to the village to board, that Olive might be sent to school. Soon after this the mother married Cyrus Judd, a man of influence in the town of New Britain. Olive continued in school for many years. She passed through the course of the New Britain high school, was graduated from the State Normal School (now Central Connecticut State University, and later, after several years of teaching, was graduated from the Normal and Training School (now State University of New York at Oswego) in Oswego, New York.\n\nAmies was a leader in school and became eminent as a teacher. For many years, she gave model lessons at conventions and institutes. For five years, in the State of New York and two in the State of Maine, she was in demand in the county teachers' institutes. She founded the training school for teachers in Lewiston, Maine, and graduated its first classes. In 1877, she began to edit the primary department of \"The Sunday School Helper\", published in Boston, the exponent for the Universalist Church. She held State positions in the Woman's Christian Temperance Union and the National Woman Suffrage Association, and delivered lectures on the different themes connected with those two organizations. She also spoke on kindergarten and object-teaching. Her \"Conversations on Juvenile Reforms\" were exceedingly popular wherever given. Amies served as president of the Women's Health Protective Association of the United States.\n\nIn 1871, she was married to the Rev. Joseph Hay Amies, pastor of the Universalist Church, Lewiston. They had a family of six children, three girls and three boys, of whom one son and one daughter died while young. Amies made her home in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. She was brought up a Methodist but in later years, became an Episcopalian. Amies died at her home in Secane, Delaware County, Pennsylvania on March 3, 1917 from heart disease. She was buried in the West Laurel Hill Cemetery on March 8, 1917.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "483292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=483292", "title": "Petting zoo", "text": "Petting zoo\n\nA petting zoo (often called, or part of, a \"children's zoo\") features a combination of domesticated animals and some wild species that are docile enough to touch and feed. In addition to independent petting zoos, also called children's farms or petting farms, many general zoos contain a petting zoo. \n\nMost petting zoos are designed to provide only relatively placid, herbivorous domesticated animals, such as sheep, goats, rabbits, or ponies, to feed and interact physically with safely. This is in contrast to the usual zoo experience, where normally wild animals are viewed from behind safe enclosures where no contact is possible. A few provide wild species (such as pythons or big cat cubs) to interact with, but these are rare and usually found outside Western nations.\n\nIn 1938, the London Zoo included the first \"children's zoo\" in Europe and the Philadelphia Zoo was the first in North America to open a special zoo just for children.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Dutch cities began building petting zoos in many neighborhoods, so that urban children could interact with animals.\n\nPetting zoos feature a variety of domestic animals. Common animals include sheep, guinea pigs, goats, rabbits, ponies, alpacas, llamas, pigs and miniature donkeys, and a few exotic animals such as kangaroos.\n\nPetting zoos are popular with small children, who will often feed the animals. In order to ensure the animals' health, the food is supplied by the zoo, either from vending machines or a kiosk. Food often fed to animals includes grass and crackers, and also in selected feeding areas hay is a common food. Such feeding is an exception to the usual rule about not feeding animals.\n\nSome petting zoos are also mobile and will travel to a home for a children's party or event. Many areas have a qualified mobile petting zoo. One of the first mobile petting zoos in Australia (begun in 1992), was Kindifarm. As a result of its popularity, many Australians use the term \"kindy farms\" to describe petting zoos. In Australia, mobile petting zoos are allowed in schools, child care centres and even shopping centres. For many children, a mobile petting zoo is their first opportunity to see and touch an animal.\n\nTouching animals can result in the transmission of diseases between animals and humans (zoonoses) so it is recommended that people should thoroughly wash their hands before and after touching the animals. There have been several outbreaks of \"E. coli\" etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "14675925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14675925", "title": "Philosophy and Belief", "text": "Philosophy and Belief\n\nPhilosophy and Belief is a school subject taught at schools across South America. The subject bears many similarities to Religious Education (RE), a subject taught across the United Kingdom and other Commonwealth Countries. Its main differences are that it has more emphasis on areas such as debating, moral and philosophical issues and dilemmas, wars, and philosophy concerning life and death. It also looks at sexism, racism and religion in the media.\n\nIt has received criticism for not teaching enough about religion. However, there are others who argue that it does, in a more engaging and fun way. Overall, teaching students about life skills.\n"}
{"id": "46952865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46952865", "title": "Queen of Apostles Boarding School, Elmina", "text": "Queen of Apostles Boarding School, Elmina\n\nQueen of Apostles Boarding School (formerly OLA Boarding) is a boarding school in Elmina, in the Central Region of Ghana. It is located on a hill just beside the first Roman Catholic Church in Ghana, St. Joseph's Minor Basilica Church.\n\nThe school was established in March 1884 by the Congregation of the Missionary Sisters of Our Lady of Apostles and was the first Catholic school for girls in Elmina.\n\n"}
{"id": "55894093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55894093", "title": "Science education in England", "text": "Science education in England\n\nScience education in England is generally regulated at all levels for assessments that are England's, from 'primary' to 'tertiary' (university). Below university-level, science education is the responsibility of three bodies: the Department for Education, Ofqual and the QAA, but at university-level, science education is regulated by various \"professional bodies\", and the Bologna Process via the QAA. The QAA also regulates science education for some qualifications that are not university degrees via various \"qualification boards\", but not content for GCSEs, and GCE AS and A levels. Ofqual on the other hand regulates science education for GCSEs and AS/A levels, as well as all other qualifications, except those covered by the QAA, also via qualification boards. The Department for Education prescribes the content for science education for GCSEs and AS/A levels, which is implemented by the qualification boards, who are then regulated by Ofqual. The Department for Education also regulates science education for students aged 16 years and under. The department's policies on science education (and indeed all subjects) are implemented by local government authorities on all state schools (also called \"publicly funded\" schools) in England. The content of the nationally organised science curriculum (along with other subjects) for England is published in the National Curriculum, which covers key stage 1 (KS1), key stage 2 (KS2), key stage 3 (KS3) and key stage 4 (KS4). The four key stages can be grouped a number of ways; how they are grouped significantly affects the way the science curriculum is delivered. In state schools, the four key stages are grouped into KS1–2 and KS3–4; KS1–2 covers primary education while KS3–4 covers secondary education. But in independent or public (which in the United Kingdom are historic independent) schools (not to be confused with 'publicly funded' schools), the key stage grouping is more variable, and rather than using the terms ‘primary’ and 'secondary’, the terms ‘prep’ and ‘senior’ are used instead. Science is a compulsory subject in the National Curriculum of England, Wales and Northern Ireland; state schools have to follow the National Curriculum while independent schools need not follow it. That said, science is compulsory in the Common Entrance Examination for entry into senior schools, so it does feature prominently in the curricula of independent schools. Beyond the National Curriculum and Common Entrance Examination, science is voluntary, but the government of the United Kingdom (comprising England, Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland) provides incentives for students to continue studying science subjects. Science is regarded as vital to the economic growth of the United Kingdom (UK). For students aged 16 years (the upper limit of compulsory \"school age\" in England, but not compulsory education as a whole) and over, there is no \"compulsory\" nationally organised science curriculum for all state/publicly funded education providers in England to follow, and individual providers can set their own content, although they often (and in the case of England's state/publicly funded post-16 schools and colleges have to) get their science (and indeed all) courses \"accredited\" or made \"satisfactory\" (ultimately by either Ofqual or the QAA via the qualification boards). Universities do not need such approval, but there is a reason for them to seek accreditation regardless. Moreover, UK universities have obligations to the Bologna Process to ensure high standards. Science education in England has undergone significant changes over the centuries; facing challenges over that period, and still facing challenges to this day.\n\nGillard (2011) gives a documented account of science curriculum and education during this period. According to his work, the teaching of science in England dates back to at least Anglo-Saxon times. Gillard explains that the first schools in England (that are known of) were created by St Augustine when he brought Christianity to England around the end of the sixth century—there were almost certainly schools in Roman Britain before St Augustine, but they did not survive after the Romans left. It is thought the first grammar school was established at Canterbury in 598 during the reign of King Ethelbert. Gillard also mentions Bede's \"Ecclesiastical History\", here science (in the form of astronomy) was already part of the curriculum in the early schools of the 600s. As the founding of grammar schools spread from south to north of England, science education spread with it. Science as it is known today developed from two spheres of knowledge: natural philosophy and natural history. The former was associated with the reasoning and explanation of nature while the latter focused more on living things. Both strands of knowledge can be identified in a curriculum provided by a school in York run by Alcuin in the 770s and 780s. Subsequent Viking invasions of England interrupted the development of schools, but despite this, through the ages, education in England was provided by the church and grammar schools (which were linked to the church). The link between church and school started to change in the 1300s when schools independent of the church began to emerge. University education in England started in Oxford in the 1100s (although there is evidence that teaching began there in the 1000s). Like pre-university education, science at Oxford University was initially taught in the form of astronomy (as part of the quadrivium). The Renaissance spurred physical inquiry into nature which led to natural philosophy developing into physics and chemistry, and natural history developing into biology; these three disciplines form natural science, from which interdisciplinary fields (or at least their modern versions) that overlap two or all three branches of natural science develop. This emerging trend in physical inquiry do not appear to have been reflected in the science curriculum in schools at the time. Even in universities, the changes to science education that were necessary as a result of the Renaissance occurred very slowly. It was not till the 1800s that the science curriculum and education recognised in England today at all levels truly began to emerge.\n\nUp until the 1800s there were only two stages of education: elementary and university. However, in the nineteenth century, elementary education began to divide into primary (still called elementary) and secondary education. Elementary schools were defined in law in England through a series of acts of parliament which made education compulsory and free for children up to the age of 11 (later increased to 12). There were six (and later seven) standards for children to pass; science education did not feature in any of these standards, but for some schools it was an \"add-on\" especially at the higher standards (such as sixth and seventh—science subjects included physics, chemistry, mechanics). Promotion from one standard to the next was on merit and not age. Not all children completed all standards, which meant that by the age of 12, there were children that had not ‘completed’ their elementary education. Of course families that could afford (and wanted) to keep their children in school post-compulsory age to pass all standards did so. In fact some children stayed in school beyond the seventh standard. Schools that offered post-seventh standard education became known as \"higher grade schools\", of which science education was a recognised feature of their curricula.\n\nThis was by far the single most important development for science education in schools in England in the nineteenth century from a British parliament point of view. Ironically the original purpose of the committee that authored the 'Taunton' Report of 1868, or more formally, \"Volume II Miscellaneous Papers of the Schools Inquiry Commission\" (1868), was to examine how best endowed schools should be managed; something Parliament at the time thought was of utmost importance. The committee for the report was chaired by Lord Taunton (born Henry Labouchere). In heading the preparation for the report, Lord Taunton sent a circular letter listing four questions to a number of prominent people in different parts of England on 28 May 1866; the first three were endowment-related issues, but the fourth question was on how to encourage a due supply of qualified teachers. Apart from the contents page, the word \"science\" first appears on page 45 of the report in a reply by one of the recipients of the circular letter; that recipient was Reverend W C Lake. The reverend comments:\nOn page 77 of the report, Edward Twisleton, a member of the Schools Inquiry Commission, comments on the answers provided to the four questions set by the committee's chairman, Lord Taunton, based on feedback from the circular letter sent. To the first question, Twisleton writes:\nThere were noticeable opinions on the issue of science education from contributors that wrote to the committee to express their views. One by Robert Mosley of Holgate Seminary, York (pages 104 to 105 of the report), suggested the inclusion of physical sciences in a 'National education'; this national education being the best way to utilise educational endowment. Based on feedback from contributors, the Taunton Committee gave several arguments in favour of science education; two of them are:\nand\nThe committee subsequently made several recommendations; the first three on promoting scientific education in schools are listed below:\nThe issue of increased cost for fee payers played heavily on the minds of the committee, and although the committee felt that for \"a wealthy country like England\" (page 219 of the report), a slight increase in cost should not be a barrier to science education, it was left to individual schools to decide how to incorporate science into their curricula.\n\nBy the time of the Taunton Report there were four universities in England (Oxford, Cambridge, Durham and London), but from the 1880s, a new wave of universities / university colleges completely separate from the original four began to emerge; these universities were called red brick universities. The first of these universities was established in Manchester in 1880 and was called Victoria University. Over the subsequent 80 years, a further 11 universities outside London, Cambridge, Durham and Oxford were founded, significantly expanding the availability of university (science) education throughout England. All through the 1800s, science was becoming increasingly specialised into the different areas we know today.\n\nThe Education Act 1902 led to the higher grade schools (alluded to earlier) and fee-paying schools being absorbed into the legally defined “higher education” (meaning any education that was not elementary (as primary education was known at the time)). Despite science education in higher grade schools and the recommendations of the Taunton Report, as well as the British Association for the Advancement of Science’s campaign for a science curriculum, science was still seen as a minor subject by the most prestigious public schools. The problem was that most of these public schools had close relationships with Oxford and Cambridge universities which offered the majority of their scholarships in classics, and so science was regarded in low importance by the prestigious schools. Consequently, science education varied significantly across English schools. Numerous education-related acts were passed throughout the twentieth century, but the most important in the history of science education in England was the Education Reform Act 1988 (see next subsection). Another act of importance to the development of science education below university-level in England was the Education Act 1944. The 1944 act's contribution was indirect though—it raised the compulsory school age to 15, but made provisions for it to be raised to 16 at a future date—which happened in 1972 (which is still the case today). By raising the school leaving age to 16, this formed the basis for creating a nationally organised science curriculum and education in England. However, the 1944 Education Act did not stipulate that science be taught. For university-level science education, two significant developments were the expansion of distance learning science courses and the introduction of the World Wide Web (via the Internet) into the delivery of science teaching, although this has also been adopted below university-level.\n\nThis was the most important development in the history of science education in England. It was this act that established the National Curriculum and made science compulsory across both secondary and primary schools (alongside maths and English). The 1988 act in effect implemented the recommendation of the Taunton Committee made more than a century earlier. The act also established the now familiar “key stages”.\n\nThe most significant developments to the science curriculum and education in this period to date have been the expansion of the compulsory science content in the National Curriculum and the associated changes to its assessment. Another significant event was the passing of the Education and Skills Act 2008, which raised the education leaving age in England to 18. It is unclear whether this extension of compulsory education will result in more science learners as science is not compulsory after the age of 16—the school leaving age, which the 2008 act did not alter.\n\nCompulsory science content is provided by the National Curriculum and generally applies to children between the ages of 5 and 16. These eleven years of compulsory education are divided by the state into four key stages: KS1, KS2, KS3 and KS4. Regardless of key stage, the National Curriculum states two overarching aims of science education:\nA third aim is common to KS1–3:\nBut for KS4, the third aim is far more detailed, and there is also a fourth aim:\nThe need for mathematical skills is stressed by the National Curriculum across all key stages, but more so at KS3 and KS4.\n\nThe National Curriculum for science is a spiral curriculum; it is also prescriptive. Because of its spiral nature, this makes its learning essentially constructivist. These points are illustrated in the subsections that follow. In addition, the Science National Curriculum emphasises the need for active learning right from the child’s earliest exposure to the curriculum. Research on the value of active learning has been demonstrated and published. Experimentation by the child is underscored in the curriculum accompanied by careful discussion of what was observed. Despite these positive features, it has been argued that evaluating the effectiveness of the National Curriculum on learning is difficult to answer.\n\nKey stage 1 (KS1) covers the first two years of compulsory school education in the National Curriculum. As such, the years are referred to as years 1 and 2. Children are typically in the age range 5–7. The emphasis of science at this stage is observation and describing or drawing things that the child can see, either around them or from a book or photograph or video; the feel of materials is also an important feature of KS1 science. Abstract concepts in science are not introduced at this stage (at least not on the basis of the National Curriculum). As a result, the science curriculum at KS1 is more or less plants and animals, and materials, with the emphasis on what can easily be seen or described by feeling things.\n\nKey stage 2 (KS2) covers years 3, 4, 5 and 6 of compulsory school education in the National Curriculum. It is the longest stage of compulsory school education in England. Children are typically in the age range 7–11. The National Curriculum divides KS2 into lower KS2 (years 3 and 4) and upper KS2 (years 5 and 6). Year 3 continues from KS1, but more complex observations for the child to do on plants and animals, and materials—rocks, fossils and soils, are brought in. Setting up simple experiments and recording data become increasingly important at this stage. Hazards and dangers of certain scientific experiments (such as feeling things after they have been heated) are drilled into pupils; necessary precautions against such dangers/hazards are taught. New areas are introduced: light (and the dangers of looking directly at sunlight with necessary precautions), forces and magnets. In year 4, classification of living and non-living things come to the fore; additional areas introduced include:\nIn years 5 and 6 (upper KS2), the National Curriculum states that the emphasis should be on enabling pupils develop a deeper understanding of scientific ideas. The need to read, spell and pronounce scientific vocabulary correctly is emphasised by the National Curriculum. This emphasis probably reflects the fact that by the age of 9, 10 or 11, a child in England should be able to read and write properly. Year 5 continues on from year 4; studying increasingly more complex aspects of what was introduced in year 4. Also the pupil starts to learn about accepting or \"refuting\" ideas based on scientific evidence. Additional areas include:\nYear 6 not only continues on from year 5, adding more complex aspects of what was learnt in year 5, but also prepares the pupil for KS3 science; additional areas include:\n\nBetween the early 1990s and early 2010s, state school pupils had to take statutory SAT exams at the end of KS2 science although teacher assessments were also allowed. The KS2 SAT science exam consisted of two papers (forty-five minutes each). The scores from both papers were combined to give a final score. This score would then be converted into a \"numerical\" level, which would in turn be converted into an \"expectation\" level. The conversion scale for the levels at KS2 SAT science is shown in the table below.\n\n\"Science KS2 SATs\"\nLevel 6 (exceptional) was also available, but only in mathematics and English (reading); a separate test for level 6 assessment had to be taken, which had to be marked externally. Science KS2 SATs were discontinued in 2013 and replaced by teacher assessments (which were already allowed during the time of SATs). In addition to teacher assessments, a SAT replacement assessment called \"key stage 2 science sampling test\" is now offered to five randomly selected pupils in a school every two years. The test comprises three papers: ‘b’ for biology, ‘c’ for chemistry, and ‘p’ for physics (each twenty-five minutes). The aim of the tests is to assess how well children are getting on with the curriculum. The first test of this kind was in the summer of 2016.\n\nThis exam is taken by KS2 pupils wishing to be admitted into independent senior schools for KS3 study and higher (although not all senior schools admit 11-year-olds). The exam is typically taken while the pupil is in prep school, although some state school pupils use the exam to make the transition to an independent school. The syllabus for the 11+ CE science exam is based on the National Curriculum for KS2 science; one paper for science (one hour) is taken. In addition to the examinable syllabus for the 11+ CE, there is also prep-KS3 science material for the pupil to cover; this prep-KS3 science material is not examinable, but is required as preparation for KS3 science study in senior school if admitted.\n\nThe National Curriculum for KS3–4 science differs from KS1–2 not just in its complexity, but unlike the latter, the science curriculum is divided into three explicit parts: biology, chemistry and physics. Typically in a state secondary school there can be anything from one to up to three (or even more) teachers delivering science to a single class (depending on the breadth of knowledge of the teacher and staff resources of the school). Broadly speaking, similar areas are covered at both stages (that is KS3 and KS4), but at a more advanced level in KS4. Below is a broad (and simplified) summary of the curriculum of each part at KS3/4 level.\n\nDefined in the National Curriculum as:\nThe content for KS3/4 biology in the National Curriculum is broadly:\n\nDefined in the National Curriculum as:\nThe content for KS3/4 chemistry in the National Curriculum is broadly:\n\nDefined in the National Curriculum as:\nThe content for KS3/4 physics in the National Curriculum is broadly:\n\nKey stage 3 (KS3) covers years 7, 8 and 9 of compulsory school education in the National Curriculum. Pupils are typically in the age range 11–14.\n\nBetween the early 1990s and late 2000s (‘late noughties’) state school pupils had to take statutory SAT exams at the end of KS3 science (just like KS2), although teacher assessments were also allowed. The KS3 SAT science exam consisted of two papers (one hour each). The scores from both papers were combined to give a final score. This score would then be converted into a numerical level, which would in turn be converted into an expectation level. The conversion scale for the levels at KS3 SAT is shown below.\nThe conversion of the raw score from the two papers to a numerical level depended on the ‘tier’ taken by the student. For science KS3 SATs, two tiers were available: lower tier and higher tier. Levels 3–6 were available at the lower tier while levels 5–7 were available at the higher tier. The conversion scale for each tier’s scores are shown below.\n\n\"Science KS3 SATs: lower tier\"\n\"Science KS3 SATs: higher tier\"\nLevel 8 (exceptional) was not available to science KS3 SATs (not even at the higher tier); it was available to mathematics, but only at the highest tier (levels 6–8) out of four tiers that were available to mathematics KS3 SATs. Science KS3 SATs were discontinued in 2010 and replaced by teacher assessments (just like science KS2 SATs). Despite the discontinuation of statutory science KS3 SATs, the past papers are still used by schools today.\n\nLike the 11+ CEs, the 13+ CEs are taken by pupils wishing to be admitted to independent senior schools; in this case for KS4 study and higher. The exam is typically taken while the pupil is in prep school (some senior schools only admit from the age of 13). Some state school pupils use the exam to make the transition to an independent school. The syllabus for the 13+ CE science exam(s) is based on the National Curriculum for KS3 science, although not all of the KS3 science content is examinable in the CE, but the parts left out are recommended for teaching in year 9. For the exam the candidate can take either the simpler one paper in science (one hour) comprising biology, chemistry and physics parts, or three higher (and harder) papers (forty minutes each)—one in biology, one in chemistry, and one in physics. In addiion, individual senior schools may have exams for entry into other years; for example, 14+, 16+ (for post-16 or ‘KS5’ study); details of which they give on their websites.\n\nKey stage 4 (KS4) covers years 10 and 11 of compulsory school education, but it may start earlier for science (and mathematics) in some schools. Pupils are typically in the age range 14–16. At the end of KS4, students have to take statutory GCSE exams, which can be taken at either foundation tier or higher tier. Science GCSEs can be complicated in that they offer a vast array of ‘routes’ although this has simplified somewhat following recent changes to GCSEs. Today science GCSE can be taken either as a combined single subject (which is worth two GCSEs) or as the three separate subjects of physics, chemistry and biology, (each worth a single GCSE in its own right). When biology, chemistry and physics are taken as separate GCSE subjects the tiers can be mixed. So for instance, a student could take say, biology at higher tier, but chemistry at foundation tier. By contrast, tiers cannot be mixed in combined science (that is, all constituent parts must be taken at the same tier). Experiments (also called \"practicals\") are compulsory in the GCSE science course, but in different ways across the boards offering GCSE science to English schools. For most boards the results of the practicals do not count towards the final grade in the reformed GCSE (as this is determined entirely by the results of the written examination), but the school/college must submit a signed \"practical science statement\" to the board under which the science is being studied BEFORE the students can take the examination. The statement must declare that all students have completed all the required practicals. The skills and knowledge that should have been acquired from the practicals are subsequently assessed in the GCSE exams, which for most boards are entirely written (as alluded to earlier). For one board (CCEA) however, in addition to the examination of practical skills in the written papers, the results of some of the actual practicals do count towards the final grade in the reformed GCSE. Currently, GCSE sciences in England are available from five boards: AQA, OCR, Edexcel. WJEC-Eduqas and CCEA. Although all five boards provide GCSE science to English schools, not all of these boards are based in England: AQA, OCR and Edexcel are based in England, but WJEC-Eduqas is based in Wales, while CCEA is based in Northern Ireland. Schools are free to choose any board for their science, and where the three sciences of chemistry, physics and biology are being taken independently at GCSE level, all three sciences need not be taken from the same board. Some boards offer multiple routes for their combined science courses in the reformed GCSE in England.\n\nFollowing recent changes, a student can go for one of two routes if taking AQA combined science: \"trilogy\" or \"synergy\". In trilogy, science is delivered in the three traditional parts of biology, chemistry and physics. The trilogy specification document outlines topics for each science part and practicals are specified. The trilogy GCSE exam itself is made up of six papers (each one hour and fifteen minutes): two for biology, two for chemistry, and two for physics. In synergy, science is delivered in two parts: \"life and environmental sciences\" AND \"physical sciences\". Unlike trilogy, each of the two parts in the synergy specification document is broken down into ‘areas’ that enable biology, chemistry and physics to sit together. The synergy GCSE exam itself is made up of four papers (each one hour and forty-five minutes): two for life and environmental sciences and two for physical sciences.\n\nLike AQA combined science, following recent changes, a student can go for one of two routes if taking OCR combined science; in this case either \"combined science A\" or \"combined science B\". In combined science A, science is delivered in the three traditional parts of biology, chemistry and physics. Like AQA's trilogy, each science part is broken into topics in combined science A's specification document , but unlike AQA combined science, practicals are suggested rather than specified, although practicals are still compulsory (the same goes for combined science B). The GCSE combined science A exam is made up of six papers (each one hour and ten minutes): two each for biology, chemistry and physics respectively. In combined science B, the science curriculum is delivered in four parts: biology, chemistry, physics and combined science. Each part is broken into topics in the combined science B specification document . The exam itself is made up of four papers (each one hour and forty-five minutes): one each for biology, chemistry, physics and combined science respectively.\n\nFollowing the changes to GCSEs, only one route is available to the student that takes Edexcel or Eduqas combined science. In Edexcel's combined science specification document the curriculum is delivered in the three traditional disciplines of biology, chemistry and physics, but in Eduqas's , the science curriculum is divided into four parts: \"Concepts in Biology\", \" Concepts in Chemistry\", \"Concepts in Physics\" and \"Applications in Science\". The Eduqas combined science exam is made up of four papers (one hour and forty-five minutes each): one for each of the three 'Concepts in ...' and one for 'Applications in Science'. The Edexcel exam is made up of six papers (each one hour and ten minutes): two each for biology, chemistry and physics respectively.\n\nThe new combined science from CCEA since the GCSE reforms retains the same name as its predecessor. The specification document presents the science curriculum in the traditional disciplines of biology, chemistry and physics. The exam is the most extensive of the GCSE science boards; made up of nine papers and three practical exams. For each of biology, chemistry and physics there are three papers and one practical exam: Paper 1 is one hour long, Paper 2 is one hour and fifteen minutes, Paper 3 is a practical skills paper and is thirty minutes long, and the practical exam is one hour long.\n\nAs alluded to earlier, in the mid-2010s, the GCSE science courses of the GCSE exam boards underwent significant changes. This was in part due to changes in the National Curriculum, of which one of the areas affected the most was key stage 4 (KS4). The revised version of the National Curriculum covered more content; the one for KS4 science was published in December 2014 and a version specifically for GCSE combined science was published in June 2015, and implemented in September 2016. The increased content triggered a change in the GCSE grading system from A*–G to 9–1. Much more detail on the new grading system and how it differs from the previous can be read here. One consequence of the increased science content in the National Curriculum was that it helped simplify a bewildering array of GCSE science courses particularly from AQA, which are/were designed to accommodate students from the least able to the most able. AQA science courses such as core science, additional science, further additional science, science A, science B, additional applied science illustrate the variety. The new trilogy and synergy courses (which were developed from the recently expanded National Curriculum for science) have removed the need for the most able students to take multiple science courses unless the student decides to take chemistry, biology and physics individually. The content for GCSE physics as a stand-alone subject is more than the content for physics in GCSE combined science. For instance, in the National Curriculum for KS4 science, space physics is included, but not in the GCSE combined science version. AQA includes space physics in its GCSE specification, but only when GCSE physics is taken as an independent subject in its own right, and not when physics is taken as part of GCSE combined science.\n\nFor the ages of 16, 17 and 18 (and older for those that remain in education below university-level), students in England do what is sometimes loosely called ‘key stage 5’ or KS5; it has no legal meaning (unlike the other key stages). And unlike KS1–4 in which the levels of complexity of topics learnt at each stage are prescribed within relatively narrow limits, at KS5, the levels of complexity of topics cover a wide range, although the highest level of complexity at KS5 is RQF level 3. Whether or not a student actually studies at this level of complexity in KS5 depends on his/her GCSE results—crucially on what subjects the student obtained passes at RQF level 2 standard (including mathematics and English) as well as the actual grades themselves. In other words, unlike KS1–4, where a specific student studies at one RQF level, at KS5, a specific student may be studying at several RQF levels depending on what s/he obtained at GCSEs. Regardless of the RQF-level mix, a KS5 student can do his/her post-16 study in one of the following:\n\nThis can be done either full-time or part-time. If done part-time, the student also has to be working or volunteering for at least 20 hours a week. As already hinted, the science curriculum and education at KS5 is highly varied, often disparate and tends to be specialised as students in their late teens interested in science begin to study subjects that will prepare them for science careers. In KS5 study at RQF level 3, students are introduced to concepts they would never have heard of during their time from KS1 to KS4, which they will either study in much greater depth at university-level (if s/he continues to study the science in question) or apply at vocational placements or apprenticeships. Practical science at KS5–RQF level 3 can be more extensive. Individual A levels in chemistry, biology and physics are perhaps the best known KS5–RQF level 3 science subjects (and they take two years to complete when done full-time), but A level students may well choose only one or two of these subjects, and mix with mathematics or non-science A level subjects depending on what university degree the student wishes to study post-KS5 (typically A level students go straight to university on successful completion of A levels). Although A levels are probably the highest profile KS5 studies, there are other qualifications students can take as alternatives. KS5 science subjects (including laboratory science) can also be taken in BTECs, Cambridge Pre-Us, IBs, AQAs (non-A levels), OCRs (non-A levels). NVQs, university specific foundation year programmes (generally offered to students that have taken A levels, but not the correct ones; can also be offered to those that have failed their A levels), access to HEs (generally not available to students under 21). Although all these alternative non-A level qualifications (which are all available at RQF level 3) can offer content similar in complexity to their A/AS level counterparts (which are also RQF level 3), the make-up of their content can vary significantly depending on the subject, and the board offering it. A comprehensive list of most subjects at most levels and the boards offering them is kept by the National Careers Service and individual subjects and their boards can be searched for on their website . A search tool for only Ofqual approved list of subjects and their boards can be found at \"Ofqual: The Register\"; the list can also be downloaded from the site, while a search tool for only QAA approved access to HE subjects can be found at \"Access to Higher Education\". Both the National Careers Service and Ofqual lists include all A/AS levels, GCSEs (RQF levels 1–2) and most of the rest (RQF levels 1–8, and the RQF entry level (which is below RQF level 1)). With regards to universities in England accepting RQF level 3 science subjects for their science degrees, students with only non-A level science subjects may be accepted, or the student may require a mixture of some of these non-A level science subjects with one or two A/AS level science subjects. This all depends on the level 3 qualification in question, the university, and science degree the student wishes to study. Individual universities give details of their entry requirements for their various science (and obviously all) degrees on their websites. Some RQF level 3 students may use the KS5 science subjects they study for entry into higher/degree apprenticeships or university-level vocational training.\n\nBeyond 18 years of age, students that have already either left or finished their formal education, but return at later times in their lives to study science (having decided they do not have the appropriate level of knowledge), can do so on their return at RQF level 3 or lower. The level the student returns at will depend on his/her pre-enrollment level of knowledge of science, although science is generally not available below RQF level 1 (that is, the RQF entry (sub-1) level) to adult returners to education (but maths and English are). Typically, further education colleges admit adult returners, although some universities may offer distance learning courses. Further education and distance learning courses are often the ways these mature students can access science courses long after they have left education. Just like students that have neither left nor previously finished their education, satisfactorily passing the summative assessment at RQF level 3 is the crucial gateway into university-level education (that is RQF level 4 and higher) in England. In addition to satisfactory passes in science subjects at RQF level 3, the learner also has to have passed mathematics and English at RQF level 2 standard (typically GCSEs or equivalent with minimum (or equivalent minimum) grades of 'C' or '4'); providers of university-level education give details on their websites.\n\nLike post-16 or KS5, this is also highly varied, disparate and specialised, but more so, as a student may chose to study 'one' science, which s/he will subsequently study in depth for three or more years; the summative assessment leads to a degree (of which for science in England today is typically one of two levels—RQF level 6 or 7). Such education will enable students market themselves as (specialist) scientists to employers or postgraduate science degree programmes (although the choices available to the graduate are affected by the class of degree the graduate achieves—recruiters give details on their websites). Many concepts the student first encountered in A levels / RQF level 3 are dealt with in much greater detail. The biggest difference between A level / RQF level 3 science and university-level science occurs in physics, which at university-level becomes highly mathematical (and at times difficult to distinguish from mathematics). Practical science at university-level can be quite extensive and by the time of the dissertation project, the student may well be doing complex experiments lasting weeks or months unsupervised (although s/he will still have a supervisor on hand). Science degrees in England are offered by both universities and some further education colleges. University-level teachers (also referred to in England as \"lecturers\") will teach one area of the science the student is studying, but two notable differences between university-level science education in further education colleges and universities are that in universities, there is a close connection between teaching and research. In other words, it is common for a university teacher to be a researcher in the area s/he teaches—this applies not just to science, but to all areas; such connection between teaching and research does not occur in further education colleges in England. And the other difference is that further education colleges must have their degrees approved by universities. Although universities do not need approval for their science degrees and are free to set their own content, they generally get many of their science courses accredited by professional bodies. So for example, universities offering biology degrees commonly get these programmes accredited by the Royal Society of Biology; for chemistry degrees, it is the Royal Society of Chemistry; for physics degrees, it is the Institute of Physics; for geology degrees, it is the Geological Society, and so on. Accreditation of a science degree by a professional body is a precondition if the student studying the degree is to become a member of the body following graduation, and subsequently acquire chartered status. In addition, UK universities are obliged to ensure that their degrees meet the standards agreed to in the Bologna Process to which the UK is a co-signatory. The QAA certifies those British degrees that meet those standards. Not all university-level students studying science study for science degrees; many will study science as part of a vocational degree such as pharmacy, medicine, dentistry, nursing, veterinary medicine, allied health professions, and so on. And some will study science as part of a higher/degree apprenticeship.\n\nThe challenges of establishing a national curriculum for science below university-level in England over the last two centuries have been explored by Smith (2010) and others. In Smith's paper, she highlighted two potentially conflicting roles for science education below university-level: educating a public to be scientifically literate, and providing scientific training for aspiring science professionals. Smith further pointed out in her paper that even among the training of aspiring science professionals, three groups could be identified: those that sought science in pursuance of the truth and an abstract understanding of science; those that sought science for actual benefit to society—the applied scientists, and then the failures. The dilemma did not escape the committee led by J J Thomson (discoverer of the electron) in 1918, which is quite telling of the tension in trying to accommodate several very different groups of science learners:\nSuch tension has never really dissipated. In a report by the Royal Society from 2008, they state several challenges facing science education; the first two are reproduced here:\n\nThe first:\nand the second: \nA lack of good quality teachers has also been cited as a challenge. Difficulty recruiting science teachers, which is a current problem in England (and the UK as a whole) is certainly not new as the following extract from the report by the Thomson Committee in 1918 shows:\nSome interesting figures were quoted in the 1918 report; for instance on page 31 of the report: out of 72 schools that had 200–400 girls of all ages, only 39 had the services of two science teachers (mistresses). The report went on state that these figures had contributed to long hours and inadequate salaries. This sounds strikingly similar to the situation facing science (and indeed all) school teachers in England today; a hundred years later. Another challenge was that there was not an appreciation by the political elite on the value of a science education to the wider public; despite the fact that England was producing some of the greatest scientists in the world. Yet another challenge was that public schools were slow to respond to the needs of developing a science curriculum. For example, William Sharp was the first science teacher for Rugby School, a prestigious public school in England, which only happened for the first time in 1847; nearly 300 years after the college was established and more than 100 years after England had lost one of the world’s greatest scientists—Isaac Newton. Despite these challenges, a science curriculum and education developed through the twentieth century and eventually became a compulsory part of the new National Curriculum in 1988 (phased in from 1989 to 1992). Even at the time of the deliberations in the mid-1980s prior to the creation of the National Curriculum, there was disagreement over how much time science should occupy in the curriculum. There was pressure for science to be made to occupy 20% of curriculum time for 14–16-year-olds, but not everyone agreed with this; certainly not the then Secretary of State for Education and Science Kenneth Baker. The then Department for Education and Science settled for 12.5% of curriculum time, but schools were free to increase this. The result was the emergence of single science (which occupied 10% of curriculum time and was the minimum requirement—also called \"core\" science), double science (which occupied 20% of curriculum time, and was so called because it involved studying core science and \"additional\" science), and there was the option of doing the sciences of physics, chemistry and biology separately (also known as 'triple' science). Following the changes to the National Curriculum in the 2010s, single science has effectively been removed, and the two components of double science have been combined to form 'combined science', which is now the minimum requirement. One challenge that ties in with England's shortage of science teachers is the number of science undergraduates in higher education, which provides the pool for future trainee science teachers, but undergraduate numbers affect the three sciences differently: the number of students that study physical sciences in higher education (93050 in the year 2012/13) are less than half the students that study biological sciences (201520 in the year 2012/13). This has had a direct impact on government policy in England; for example, the UK government offers bursaries of £30000 to graduates with first class honours degrees wishing to train as physics teachers in secondary schools in England; for chemistry, the top bursary is £25000, and for biology it is £15000. For students with lower honours degrees in these subjects, correspondingly lower bursaries are offered, but they are still considerable for physics graduates (compared to bursaries offered to trainee teachers of other subjects). For instance, a physics graduate with a lower second class honours degree can still attract a bursary of £25000. But the government has also implemented a policy to increase the number of science graduates from UK universities: normally a student in England wishing to study for a first degree including an honours degree can get a UK-government-backed student loan as long as s/he does not already possess an honours degree. Exceptions are permitted, but prior to September 2017 (and in the case of postgraduate master's degrees, September 2016), these UK-government-backed loans for those in England that already had honours degrees were only available for them if the courses they were going to study led to professional qualifications such as medicine, dentistry, social care, architecture or teaching. However the range of subjects for which a student in England already in possession of an honours degree could get a second UK-government-backed student loan to study a second honours degree was expanded to include science subjects (as well as technology, engineering and mathematics), which took effect from 1 September 2017. Like before, the student has to meet both England and UK residency requirements . The inclusion of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (collectively called \"STEM\" subjects) to the list appears to have been triggered not just by teacher shortages in those subjects, but also by a general skills shortage (in those subjects) UK-wide. It remains to be seen whether the direct interventions by the UK government help alleviate the general skills shortages in STEM subjects, as well as the challenges of delivering a science curriculum and education in the long-term. As for universities, several challenges have been identified by Grove (2015); the summaries of those challenges have been reproduced below:\n\nThese challenges apply not just to the university provision of science education, but to all areas of university education.\n\n"}
{"id": "27967768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27967768", "title": "Shots On-Line", "text": "Shots On-Line\n\nShots On-line is a mobile web application that is a resource on immunizations for smartphones and other handheld devices. It was developed by the Group on Immunization Education of the Society of Teachers of Family Medicine (STFM). It is available for iPhone/iPod Touch, Android, and BlackBerry devices. Shots software is also available for standard palm and Windows based PDAs. Information is easily accessed via drop-down menus.\n\nShots contains the unified, ACIP-approved childhood, adolescent, adult, catch-up and medical indications schedules for the United States. Drop-down menus provide details about every vaccine and include: Basics, High Risk Indications, Adverse Reactions, Contraindications, Catch-Up, Administration, Risk Communications, Brand Names, Epidemiology and Pictures of Vaccine Preventable Diseases. As new vaccines become available and recommendations are made, they are added to the applications.\n\n"}
{"id": "21210094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21210094", "title": "Tajik State University of Commerce", "text": "Tajik State University of Commerce\n\nTajik State University of Commerce is an economics university located in Dushanbe, Tajikistan.\n"}
{"id": "57697289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57697289", "title": "Tim Seldin", "text": "Tim Seldin\n\nTim Seldin (born June 16, 1946) is an author, educator and the President of The Montessori Foundation and Chair of The International Montessori Council. His more than forty years of experience in Montessori education includes twenty-two years as Headmaster of the Barrie School in Silver Spring, Maryland, of which he also attended. He has also served as the Director of the Institute for Advanced Montessori Studies and as Head of the New Gate School in Sarasota, Florida. He write the book \"How To Raise An Amazing Child the Montessori Way\", and conducts weekly webinars about Montessori Education.\n\nSeldin is married to Joyce St. Giermaine. They have three children: Marc, Michelle, and Caitlin, and he is stepfather to Chelsea and Robin. He lives on a small ranch in Sarasota, Florida.\n\n"}
{"id": "53001701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53001701", "title": "UNESCO Science Report", "text": "UNESCO Science Report\n\nThe UNESCO Science Report is a global monitoring report published regularly by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Every five years, this report maps the latest trends and developments in national and regional policy landscapes, against the backdrop of shifting socio-economic, geopolitical and environmental realities. Each edition is released on 10 November, which is World Science Day for Peace and Development. The most recent edition was released on 10 November 2015.\n\nEach report in the series provides a snapshot of the situation worldwide at a given time. Written by dozens of experts who each analyse developments in their country or region over the past five years, each report enables governments, academia, the private sector, development agencies and development banks, the media and other science watchers to monitor the evolution of science, technology and innovation policy and governance around the world. Readers can compare the situation in their own country with that elsewhere and study other approaches to building national innovation systems. This can help policy-makers and other stakeholders to identify emerging trends and best practices. It can also stimulate a debate at the national and regional levels on future policy directions. The report thus serves both as a monitoring tool and as a resource for foresight studies.\n\nIn 1987, the General Conference of UNESCO approved the launch of the Organization's first world reports, the \"World Communication Report\", which first appeared two years later. In 1989, the General Conference approved the launch of the \"World Education Report,\" which appeared in 1991, 1993, 1995, 1998 and 2000.\n\nThe launch of these two reports created a momentum to generalize the world reports to all of UNESCO’s fields of competence. The \"World Science Report\" (as the UNESCO Science Report was originally known) was the next title to appear, in 1993. The first \"World Information Report\" followed in 1997 then the \"World Social Science Report\" in 1999, as well as two \"World Culture Reports\" in 1998 and 2000. Two existing reports were merged to produce the \"World Communication and Information Report 1999−2000\".\n\nThe \"World Science Report\" was first officially evoked in 1992 in the \"Preliminary Proposals by the Director-General concerning the Programme and Budget for 1994-1995\". This document was submitted to UNESCO's Executive Board, which has 58 rotating member states and meets twice a year to monitor the implementation of UNESCO's programme. The document states that, ‘on the basis of the lessons drawn from drafting and publishing the first UNESCO World Science Report, measures will be taken to refine and improve this undertaking’.\n\nThe \"World Science Report\" was initially an output of UNESCO's Science, Technology and Society programme. The \"World Science Report\" replaced the UNESCO journal \"Impact of Science on Society,\" which dated from the 1950s. Jacques Richardson, Head of UNESCO’s Science and Society Section from 1972 to 1985 and former editor of \"Impact of Science on Society\", observed in \"Sixty Years of Science at UNESCO\" (2006) that \"‘the publication of Impact continued until the early 1990s, when it was converted into the biennial World Science Report’.\" The editor of the first three \"World Science Reports\" (1993, 1996 and 1998) was Howard Moore, who had succeeded Jacques Richardson as editor of \"Impact of Science on Society.\" The first edition of the report reflects this influence, since the \"World Science Report 1993\" included a section popularizing contemporary issues in basic sciences.\n\nIn 2000, the production of world reports was suspended pending the outcome of an external evaluation of UNESCO's policy with regard to world reports. The evaluation recommended to the Executive Board of UNESCO that, \"'in the future, there should be one single UNESCO world report to be published every two years on a specific issue to be chosen by the organs (sic) of the Organization in an interactive way and presented to the General Conference for further debate, while the existing world reports should continue as analytical reports on the state of the art in education, the sciences, culture, and communication and information in four- to six-year intervals\".’\n\nSeveral of the existing reports were consequently revived, including the \"World Science Report, World Social Science Report\" (in 2010) and the \"World Education Report\". The latter was renamed the Education for All Global Monitoring Report.\n\nIn order to avoid confusion with UNESCO's new series of thematic world reports, UNESCO's analytical report on the state of the global support system for science was renamed the \"UNESCO Science Report\". Susan Schneegans took over as editor of the series in 2003.\n\nIn line with the recommendations of the external evaluation of UNESCO's policy with regard to world reports, the periodicity of the \"UNESCO Science Report\" was changed to five years and the series adopted a stronger focus on monitoring global trends and developments in science and technology policy. The five-year interval between reports has proved beneficial, since '\"a quinquennial report has the advantage of being able to focus on longer-term trends, rather than becoming entrenched in descriptions of short-term annual fluctuations which, with respect to policy and science and technology indicators, rarely add much value\"'.\n\nThree reports in the series have appeared since the evaluation, in 2005, 2010 and 2015. The next report is due for release in November 2020. The focus in the 2015 edition, in particular, has been on demonstrating that science, technology and innovation policy and governance do not evolve in a vacuum but, rather, are influenced by political, socio-economic and environmental factors and, in turn, influence these.\n\nThe 2015 edition of the \"UNESCO Science Report\" provides the greatest detail yet in the series, with data on 189 countries and profiles of varying length of 140 countries. It contains three global chapters, 13 regional chapters and 11 chapters on individual countries, namely on: Brazil, Canada, China, India, Iran, Israel, Malaysia, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Russian Federation and United States of America.\n\nThemes covered include the recent reform of higher education in Afghanistan, West Africa's first Policy on Science and Technology (ECOPOST), science and technology in individual countries, including Brazil, Botswana, Kazakhstan, Malawi, Uganda, the United Republic of Tanzania, Zimbabwe and the Pacific Islands, biomedical research in the United States, challenges facing innovation in Malaysia, the anticipated effect of Brexit on science and technology, the status of female participation in scientific research and the development of South-South cooperation in science.\n\nThe \"UNESCO Science Report\" has evolved over the years. The growing recognition by least developed countries that science, technology and innovation are a driver of socio-economic development, coupled with the availability of reliable statistics on research and development for a widening pool of countries, have made it possible to expand the report’s geographical coverage and consolidate its monitoring function. The 2015 edition of the UNESCO Science Report observes that, ‘although most research and development is taking place in high-income countries, innovation is pervasive and is occurring in countries across the full spectrum of income levels’.\n\nThe 2015 edition of the \"UNESCO Science Report\" analyses the years 2009–2015, which were a difficult transition period for many industrial countries. Ushered in by the global financial crisis of 2008, this transition was marked by a severe debt crisis, uncertainty over the strength of the ensuing recovery and the quest for an effective growth strategy. Many high-income countries are faced with similar challenges, such as an ageing society, chronic low growth and tough international competition (e.g. European Union, Japan, Republic of Korea, USA). Even those countries that are doing well economically, such as Israel and the Republic of Korea, fret over how to maintain their edge in a rapidly evolving world. Meanwhile, economies that had enjoyed buoyant commodity markets for over a decade (e.g. Australia, Brazil, Canada, Russian Federation) are having to reassess their options, now that the cyclical boom has come to an end.\n\nOne growth strategy being adopted by a growing number of countries is investment in advanced manufacturing. Information technology is driving what has been termed the Fourth Industrial Revolution. A growing number of countries are developing smart manufacturing technologies, such as cyber-physical systems, including Canada, China, France, Germany, India, the Republic of Korea and the United States. A wide range of industrial products now incorporate information technology. Examples include three-dimensional printers, connected reality, next-generation robotics, smart biomedical machines and self-driving cars. There is also a growing tendency to use information technology to develop futuristic, hyper-connected smart cities (e.g. China, Republic of Korea) capable of offering more efficient public services in the field of water, energy, transportation and so on.\n\nAlthough the G20 countries still account for 87% of researchers and 92% of research expenditure - compared to two-thirds of the global population -, the UNESCO Science Report observes that the research gap is gradually narrowing. Investment in research and development doubled in low-income countries between 2007 and 2013 to $3.9 billion (in purchasing power parity dollars). Many low-income countries are now incorporating science, technology and innovation in their national development agenda, conscious that their plans to diversify and modernize the economy will be thwarted, if they cannot call upon a critical mass of skilled personnel, including scientists, engineers and technicians. Regional economic communities, too, are increasingly aware that successful economic integration will depend upon how well member states assimilate science and technology.\n\nDespite the economic and financial crisis of 2008–2009, expenditure on research and development rose by 30.5% between 2007 and 2013, more than global gross domestic product (up 20%). There has been a relative convergence in the level of public commitment to research in the past five years, as wealthy governments have cut back their commitment as part of a wider austerity drive, even as governments in lower income countries (e.g. Ethiopia, Kenya and Mali) have taken advantage of the commodities boom to step up their own commitment. This convergence is not yet visible in the global data for research expenditure because the business sector in higher income countries has maintained or increased its own spending on research and development, despite the crisis.\n\nThe report observes that, faced with a moribund economy, some governments have been tempted to divert public resources towards commercial applications, to the detriment of basic research and public good science. They need to recognize that ‘science powers commerce – but not only,’ advises one of the report’s authors. It is a question of balance. A sustained public investment in basic and high-risk research makes economic sense, since neglecting these areas leads to a smaller pool of new knowledge, which, in turn, means that there will be less science to commercialize in the years to come. Switzerland, for example, is a global innovation leader but also devotes about 30% of research expenditure to basic research.\n\nThe number of researchers worldwide progressed by 21% between 2007 and 2013. Less than one-third of researchers are women (28%), on average, but a growing number of countries are putting policies in place to correct this imbalance. It is, above all, the shortfall in women engineers and computer scientists which brings the average down. The highest ratios of female researchers are not always found in the most developed regions: in Latin America and the Caribbean, for instance, 44% of researchers are women and, in the Arab States, 37%, compared to 33% in the European Union..\n\nScientists have never been so mobile. We are seeing an emerging global education and employment market for scientists and engineers, as research institutions and universities compete with one another to attract the world’s best talent. Increasingly, it is considered a must in both the public and private sectors to have an international composition of research staff. As the report puts it, 'Silicon Valley in the USA was built on IC, a reference not to integrated circuits but to the contribution of Indians and Chinese to this innovation hub’s success’.\n\nWe are also witnessing an ongoing process of ‘multipolarization’ of scientific production. The number of scientific publications worldwide progressed by 23% between 2008 and 2014, the growth rate being highest in upper middle-income (95%) and low-income (68%) countries (Thomson Reuters data). Scientists are not only publishing more in internationally catalogued journals but also co-authoring a greater share of papers with foreign partners. Internet is fostering ‘open access’ to information and data, while the greater physical mobility of scientists is forging closer international ties. 'The competition to publish in a limited number of high-impact journals has increased dramatically’, observes the report, ‘as has the competition among scientists to secure jobs in the most reputed research institutions and universities'.\n\n‘The fly in the ointment’, according to the report, ‘is that cross-border flows of knowledge in the form of researchers, scientific co-authorship, invention co-ownership and research funding are also strongly dependent on factors that have little to do with science. These days, mercantilism characterizes much of national policy-making in science, technology and innovation. All governments are keen to increase high-tech exports but few are prepared to discuss removing non-tariff barriers (such as government procurement) that may be constraining their imports. Everyone wishes to attract foreign research centres and skilled professionals but few are prepared to discuss frameworks for facilitating cross-border movement'.\n\nAs predicted in the \"UNESCO Science Report 2010\", international diplomacy has increasingly taken the form of science diplomacy in recent years. Countries at all stages of development stand to gain from this trend but the spirit of co-operation and solidarity that has characterized development partners up until now must be preserved. Trade relations are important but international relations must not be confined to trade. Achieving many of the Sustainable Development Goals (Agenda 2030) will depend not only on the diffusion of technology but also on how well countries partner with one another in the pursuit of science to solve pressing social and environmental problems and to ensure that nobody is left behind.\n\nThe \"UNESCO Science Report 2010\" had observed a paradigm shift towards greener growth. It is evident from the 2015 edition that this trend has since accelerated and is seducing an ever-greater number of countries, even if levels of public investment may not always be commensurate with ambitions. Partly as a result of the commodities boom over the past decade, countries have become more aware of the value of their natural capital. Those that have anticipated the end of this cyclical boom are already implementing strategies to diversify their economies. In many countries, this strategy focuses on developing a knowledge economy .\n\nFor many developing countries, sustainable development is an integral part of their national development plans for the next 10–20 years. National and regional policy orientations may also be inspired by the desire to develop coping strategies to protect agriculture, reduce disaster risk and/or ensure energy security, such as by diversifying the national energy mix and improving energy efficiency. Even some oil-rent economies have invested in renewable energy in recent years, such as Algeria (solar and wind). Most of the social innovation observed in East and Central Africa since 2009 tackles pressing development issues, such as overcoming food insecurity, mitigating climate change or the transition to renewable energy. Around the world, there is a growing tendency to develop futuristic hyper-connected smart cities or ‘green’ cities which use the latest technology to improve efficiency in water and energy use, construction materials, transportation and so on.\n\nAmong high-income countries, a firm commitment to sustainable development is often coupled with the desire to maintain competitiveness in global markets that are increasingly leaning towards green technologies. This is the case, for example, in the European Union, Japan and the Republic of Korea. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries in Japan, for instance, has developed a jet airliner which it hopes will conquer the global market, thanks to its high fuel efficiency, low environmental impact and minimal noise. The company began developing the aircraft in 2003, after the Ministry of the Economy, Trade and Industry announced that it would subsidize such an undertaking.\n\nThe \"UNESCO Science Report\" (2015) provides baseline information and data on the development path countries were following at the time of adoption of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) in September 2015. Subsequent reports in the series will contribute to monitoring progress towards SDG target 9.5, in particular, which calls upon countries to: \"Enhance scientific research, upgrade the technological capabilities of industrial sectors in all countries, in particular developing countries, including, by 2030, encouraging innovation and substantially increasing the number of research and development workers per 1 million people and public and private research and development spending\" \".\"\n\nThe data in the \"UNESCO Science Report\" are presented in the form of tables, graphics and as a statistical annex. \"'Since science, technology and innovation do not evolve in a vacuum, the latest edition (2015) summarizes the evolution since 2010 against the backdrop of socio-economic, geopolitical and environmental trends that have helped to shape contemporary science, technology and innovation policy and governance\"'.\n\nThe data on human and financial investment in research and development are provided primarily by the UNESCO Institute for Statistics, which conducts a survey of all UNESCO Member States on a regular basis to obtain data on trends in higher education, research and development and innovation. The socio-economic data cited in the report come from a variety of sources, including the World Bank, the International Telecommunications Union and government reports. The bibliometric data have been provided by Thomson Reuters and were treated, in the 2015 edition of the report, by Science-Metrix.\n\nThe 2015 edition of the UNESCO Science Report contains a chapter summarizing the findings of the first international survey of innovation conducted by the UNESCO Institute for Statistics in 2014. Manufacturing firms in 65 developed and developing countries responded to the survey.\n\nAll the reports in the series are open access. They may be downloaded and purchased in various languages.\n\nThe sixth report in the series was launched on 10 November 2015. This edition is freely accessible online in English and French. Editions in Arabic, Chinese, Russian and Spanish are due for release in 2017. The report may also be purchased from UNESCO Publishing. The Executive Summary is open access and exists in nine languages: Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Spanish, Russian, Portuguese, German and Catalan.\n\nThe fifth report in the series was launched on 10 November 2010. It is freely accessible online in English and Chinese and may be purchased from UNESCO Publishing in English. The executive summary is available in Arabic, Chinese, English, French, German, Portuguese, Russian and Spanish.\n\nThe fourth report in the series was launched on 10 November 2005. It is freely accessible online in English and French and may also be purchased from UNESCO Publishing in English and French.\n\nThe third report in the series is freely accessible online in English and Chinese and may also be purchased from UNESCO Publishing in English, French and Spanish.\n\nThe second report in the series is freely accessible online in English and French and may also be purchased from UNESCO Publishing in English, French and Spanish.\n\nThe first report in the series is freely accessible online in Arabic, Chinese and English. It was published in 1993.\n\n"}
{"id": "32970061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32970061", "title": "Universe Awareness", "text": "Universe Awareness\n\nUniverse Awareness or (UNAWE) is an international programme that aim to expose very young children in under-privileged environments to astronomy.\n\nIn 2004, Leiden University professor George K. Miley first began exploring the idea of setting up an astronomy programme to educate and inspire young children, especially those from underprivileged backgrounds. He had been awarded an Academy Professorship by the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences and decided to use part of the associated funding to explore the feasibility of setting up such a programme. With considerable support and encouragement from Claus Madsen at ESO, a successful workshop was held in Germany and it was agreed that the programme was worth pursuing. Universe Awareness (UNAWE) was born.\n\nShortly afterwards, Carolina Ödman was appointed as the first UNAWE International Project Manager. In 2006, thanks to a grant provided by the Netherlands Minister of Education Culture and Science, Ms. van der Hoeven, the UNAWE International Office was founded at Leiden Observatory, the Netherlands. With the help of Sarah Levin as Media Coordinator, Ödman built UNAWE into a thriving global project, with a network of about 400 experts from 40 countries.\n\nUNAWE became a Cornerstone project of the successful UN-ratified IAU/UNESCO International Year of Astronomy in 2009 (IYA2009). During IYA2009, thousands of UNAWE activities were organised in more than 45 countries. For example, in Venezuela, 43 teacher training sessions reached more than 1500 teachers and well over 60 000 children.\n\n2010 saw many changes for UNAWE. Firstly, Ödman left her coordinating role with UNAWE to join the African Institute for Mathematical Sciences Next Einstein Initiative, handing over the reins to the former Global Coordinator for IYA2009, Pedro Russo. Later that year, the European Union awarded a grant of 1.9 million euros to fund a 3-year project called European Universe Awareness (EU-UNAWE), which builds on the work of Universe Awareness (UNAWE). With this grant, EU-UNAWE is now being further developed in six selected countries: the Netherlands, Germany, Spain, Italy, the United Kingdom and South Africa.\n\nEU-UNAWE is endorsed by the International Astronomical Union (IAU) and it is now an integral part of the IAU Strategic Plan 2010–2020, which is called Astronomy for the Developing World. This is an ambitious blueprint that aims to use astronomy to foster education and provide skills and competencies in science and technology throughout the world, particularly in developing countries..\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53189057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53189057", "title": "University of the Commonwealth Caribbean", "text": "University of the Commonwealth Caribbean\n\nThe University of the Commonwealth Caribbean (UCC) (formerly known as University College of the Caribbean) is one of Jamaica's largest privately held tertiary education institutions operating 7 campuses: in six parishes across Jamaica.\n\nAs of 2017, the University offers professional certificate, diploma, associate, bachelor's and master's degree programs, as well as customized training programs in Jamaica.\n\nUCC was formed in 2004 as a result of the merger in 2002 of the Institute of Management Sciences (IMS), incorporated in 1992, and the Institute of Management & Production (IMP), incorporated in 1976.\n\nThe University of the Commonwealth Caribbean is registered and recognized by the University Council of Jamaica (UCJ), the official accreditation body for tertiary education in Jamaica and also has international institutional accreditation status from the UK based Accreditation Services for Independent Colleges & Universities (ASIC).\n\nThe UCC is also recognised as a registered centre from the University of London.\n\nUCC currently partners with universities, colleges, instituations and schools across the globe.\nAs of February 2017, the University of the Commonwealth Caribbean is partnered with\n\n"}
{"id": "50365712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50365712", "title": "Virginia Cutler", "text": "Virginia Cutler\n\nVirginia Farrer Cutler (December 17, 1905 – May 20, 1993) was an American academic. She was the dean of the home economics department at the University of Utah and Brigham Young University, worked for the United States Point Four Program in Southeast Asia, established a home science degree at the University of Ghana, and served on the White House Consumer Committee.\n\nVirginia Farrer Cutler was born on December 17, 1905, in Park City, Utah. Her parents were Robert and Mary Farrer, both natives of Sandy, Utah. Robert Farrer worked as an electrical engineer and Mary Anna (Jensen) Farrer held volunteer positions in the LDS Church while working in the home caring for Virginia and her six siblings. Cutler grew up in Murray, Utah and graduated from Murray High School in 1922. At that time, Cutler entered and won a local home economics competition, for which she was awarded a four-year scholarship to the University of Utah. During her time at the University of Utah, Cutler participated in the school's home economics club. She graduated in 1927 with a degree in Education. With her degree, Cutler went on to teach high school economics first in Manti, Utah and in the Jordan School District a short time later. While working at Jordan, Cutler met her husband, Ralph Garr Cutler. They were married on April 23, 1930. However, Ralph Cutler died in November 1931, leaving his wife with one small child and pregnant with another. After her husband's death, Virginia Cutler returned to teaching.\n\nIn 1935, Virginia Cutler and her two young sons moved to California. Cutler had enrolled at Stanford University on scholarship. Despite obstacles – including both of her children catching pneumonia and spending several weeks in the hospital with a broken back due to a car accident – Cutler completed her master's degree at Stanford in 1937. She and her family remained in California for the next 8 years, where she worked for the University of California as a home demonstration agent. In 1944, again with the hope that more education would provide her children with more opportunities, Cutler moved to Ithaca, New York. For the next two years had a fellowship and was part of the doctoral program at Cornell University.\n\nIn August 1946, the Fall after receiving her doctorate at Cornell, Cutler was named the home economics director at the University of Utah. She worked in that position for the next 8 years, during which time she developed a unique \"home values test\" to help new families measure exactly what they wished to improve within their home. Cutler's other accomplishments while at the University of Utah include raising funds for the National Home Economics Association's new D.C. headquarters, speaking as a guest lecturer, and organizing an annual 'Career Days' event for high-school age women. One of Cutler's main goals as dean of the home economics department at the University of Utah was to assist and encourage young women in receiving a higher education. She stated: \"Every young woman needs two careers: One in the home, and one where she can earn a satisfactory living outside the home.\" Cutler herself continued to do both: raising her two sons while maintaining a growing professional career.\n\nCutler was a member of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.\n\nIn 1954, Cutler was invited to be a technical advisor in home economics education for the U.S. International Cooperation Administration. She was sent to Thailand on her first assignment, where she helped establish a national home economics program. After two years in Thailand, Cutler was reassigned to Jakarta, Indonesia. She was in Indonesia for five years teaching home management, setting up new schools, and working (as the only American representative) with the home economics division of the Indonesian Ministry of Education. \nWhile still in Indonesia, Cutler was named the new dean of the Brigham Young University College of Family Living, a position she would hold until 1972. At the request of Cornell University, Cutler took a three-year leave of absence from BYU in 1966 to establish a degree course in home science at Ghana University.\n\nCutler died of Alzheimer's disease on May 20, 1993. An annual lecture held at Brigham Young University is named for her.\n\n"}
