{"id": "18716325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18716325", "title": "Acceptable loss", "text": "Acceptable loss\n\nAn acceptable loss, also known as acceptable damage, is a military euphemism used to indicate casualties or destruction inflicted by the enemy that is considered minor or tolerable. In combat situations, leaders have to often choose between options where no one solution is perfect and all choices will lead to casualties or other costs to their own troops.\n\nA small scale practical example might be when the advancement of troops is halted by a minefield. In many military operations, the speed of advancement is more important than the safety of troops. Thus, the minefield must be \"breached\" even if this means some casualties.\n\nOn a larger strategic level, there is a limit to how many casualties a nation's military or the public are willing to withstand when they go to war. For example, there is an ongoing debate on how the conceptions of acceptable losses affect how the United States conducts its military operations.\n\nThe concept of acceptable losses has also been adopted to business use, meaning taking necessary risks and the general costs of doing business, also covered with terms such as \"waste\" or \"shrinkage\".\n\nThe euphemism is related to the concept of \"acceptable risk\", which is used in many areas such as medicine and politics, to describe a situation where the a course of action is taken because the expected benefits outweigh the potential hazards.\n\n"}
{"id": "50463275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50463275", "title": "AccessBank Tajikistan", "text": "AccessBank Tajikistan\n\nCJSC AccessBank Tajikistan is a mid-size bank in Tajikistan. The bank is currently led by chairman Katharina Sсhaсhtner.\n\nAccessBank is 100% foreign-owned, including shareholders Access Microfinance Holding AG (63.429%), European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) – (13.714%), International Finance Cooperation (IFC) – (13.714%), & KfW Development Bank – (9.143%).\n\n"}
{"id": "6452828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6452828", "title": "Alternate director", "text": "Alternate director\n\nAn alternate director is an individual who is appointed to attend a board meeting on behalf of the director of a company where the principal director would be otherwise unable to attend. The law relating to alternate directors varies from country to country, but in most jurisdictions, the alternate director has the same powers to attend, speak and vote at meetings as the principal director would have had, had the alternate not been appointed.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, the alternate must also be a director in his or her own right (so in effect, there would be one less person at the meeting, but the director who had also been appointed as an alternate would carry two votes). However such structures are not common in developed legal systems.\n\nThe appointment of a temporary alternate is one of the few exceptions to the general rule that the office of a director is not assignable and non-delegable.\n"}
{"id": "45361330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45361330", "title": "Arbeitskreis Börse", "text": "Arbeitskreis Börse\n\nThe Arbeitskreis Börse (abbreviated AKB or AK Boerse) is a non-profit organization located in Mannheim (Germany), focused on investment banking, capital markets, consulting and start-up companies within the financial technology sector. It is the oldest financial association lead by students in Germany and with over 1,000 members among the largest student organizations in Germany. The Arbeitskreis Börse is dedicated to connect students interested in financial markets associated with worldwide leading banks and consulting firms. These include Bank of America Merrill Lynch, KPMG and Oliver Wyman, which are premium partners of Arbeitskreis Börse. It is organized first and foremost by students of the University of Mannheim but is receiving increasing support from students of other tertiary establishments in Mannheim.\nThe Arbeitskreis Börse was founded in response to a perceived gap in the services provided by student societies at the University of Mannheim. Students interested in the stock exchange and financial markets, that sought to actively participate in capital markets did not have the opportunity to do so whilst engaging on campus as no such opportunity had yet been offered. \nTherefore, a small group of students independently organized an evening event within the university with the aim of creating a platform for students interested in the financial markets . Supported by the University this group developed into a non-profit association which was registered by the city of Mannheim on November 6th 1984.\n\nCorresponding with positive developments within financial markets, membership within the Arbeitskreis Börse steadily grew to exceed 1,000 students within a few years. Through their stock market analysis and research papers the Arbeitskries Börse rapidly became well throughout the Rhine-Neckar area, which led to leading global investment banks and consulting firms taking notice of the Arbeitskreis Börse. At the University of Mannheim the lecture series \"Semester Program of the Arbeitskreis Börse\" was established and the Arbeitskreis Börse focused on building partnerships with financial institutions within the European financial hubs, London and Frankfurt in the following years. To satisfy external requests the \"Kreis der Freunde und Förderer des AKB\" was founded in October 1988, an association that could be joined by everyone interested in the Arbeitskreis Börse.\n\nToday the Arbeitskreis Börse is the largest finance association run by students in Germany and the largest student society at the University of Mannheim. The Arbeitskreis Börse still provides the same extensive semester program and within the framework of their lectures they attract renowned speakers from both the world's leading investment banks and consulting firms. While doing this the students of the University of Mannheim get the chance to develop business contacts at several networking events. \n\nAs a student initiative, the Arbeitskreis Börse is mainly organized by students of the University of Mannheim in addition to several students from other tertiary establishments in Mannheim. In June, the Arbeitskreis Börse annually appoints its new leading team and executive board. The team is made up of the heads of five resorts: member management, event management, IT, marketing and social events. The executive board consists of five additional students who are responsible for resort management, finances, working groups, semester programme, special events, contacts to the university, developments of the Arbeitskreis Börse as an association, premium partners and other cooperation partners.\n\nThe Arbeitskreis Börse is supported by external partners, including Oliver Wyman, BCG, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, KPMG, PwC as well as the Mannheim Business School and alumni.\n\nThe Arbeitskreis Börse attempts to form a direct link between the theoretical frameworks covered in academic studies and the practical application of these within a company. \nDuring each semester various events are organized on Mannheim's main campus - the Mannheim Palace in Mannheim, Baden-Württemberg, Germany. Firstly topical lectures are held by renowned individuals from within the financial or consulting industry, these have for instance included Armin von Falkenhayn, Head of Global Corporate and Investment Banking Germany at Bank of America Merrill Lynch; Dr. Marcus Schenk, Chief Financial Officer at Deutsche Bank: Christian Zorn, Head of Investment Banking Germany at Morgan Stanley and Frank Mattern, former CEO at McKinsey & Co.. Occasionally representatives of other industries such as Kurt Bock, CEO at BASF SE, are invited to hold such lectures. Secondly, several company workshops as well as student work groups are conducted to support Mannheim students aspiring a career in the financial sector. Within these lectures, the various companies prepare case studies that provide insight into their structure and everyday work environment. Following these lectures, the audience is able to discuss specific topics with top tier personalities and get to know company recruiters as well as employees.\n\nThe companies that have held lectures or offered workshops during the past years in cooperation with the Arbeitskreis Börse are - besides the premium partners Bank of America Merrill Lynch, KPMG and Oliver Wyman - leading banks such as Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, J. P. Morgan, Credit Suisse, Commerzbank, Fidelity, Deutsche Bank, Barclays, Royal Bank of Scotland, Lazard, N M Rothschild & Sons, UBS, RBC Capital Markets, Leonardo & Co. and Jefferies, the central banks European Central Bank and Deutsche Bundesbank in addition to leading consulting firms such as Bain & Company, Boston Consulting Group, McKinsey & Co., Roland Berger Strategy Consultants, PricewaterhouseCoopers, L.E.K. Consulting, strategy&. Further cooperating companies are Ernst & Young, Perella Weinberg Partners, Blackstone, 3I, Fresenius and BASF SE.\n\nIn cooperation with several company partners the Arbeitskreis Börse organizes an extensive lecture series every semester, composed of up to 12 company presentations and technical lectures concerned with current topics from the financial community and industry. To do so, companies from the fields of investment banking, asset management, consulting and auditing are invited to create a thought provoking presentation that explores various points of view. The lectures demonstrate relationships between the latest case studies and theoretical foundations from academia as well as findings from their business applications. At the following get-together with snacks and drinks students have the opportunity to get in personal contact with the speakers, to discuss specialist topics and ask questions regarding internships and career options.\n\nSimilar to this, the Arbeitskreis Börse, in cooperation with company partners organises numerous workshops every semester. Case studies offer a rare opportunity to gain better insight into specific business divisions and to analyse complex business matters. After the presentation of results, students come into contact with employees and are able ask specific questions and acquire information about a potential career within these companies. Getting to know preferences and strengths during the workshops makes it easier for a single business division or a certain enterprise to make a decision.\n\nAnother task of the Arbeitskreis Börse is to transmit knowledge in Excel and Bloomberg and to encourage active discussions with problems from the area of finance industry and management consultancy. Students can meet weekly to acquire and deepen fundamental knowledge in the respective subject areas under instruction from experienced Alumni to be optimally prepared for internships and entry into the workforce. To advanced students, a platform to discuss highly demanding problems is offered. The knowledge acquired in the working groups is indispensable for future entry into financial business.\n\nDuring each semester, numerous social events take place, which promote cohesion among members and help familiarise students with recently joined fellow students as well provide a temporary escape from stressful university life. Thus the students become part of a large community that outlasts their time at university and allows Alumni to return to Mannheim annually.\n\n2016\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4695020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4695020", "title": "August von Finck Sr.", "text": "August von Finck Sr.\n\nAugust von Finck Sr. (18 July 1898 – 22 April 1980) was a German banker.\n\nHe was born in Kochel, German the son of banker Wilhelm von Finck (1848–1924), founder of insurance giant Allianz and private bank Merck Finck & Co. Following the Anschluss of Austria to Nazi Germany, his business benefited greatly when the Nazis seized the Vienna-based firm of S M von Rothschild and in October 1939 sold it to Merck, Finck & Co. His son August von Finck Jr. sold the businesses to Barclays in 1990.\n"}
{"id": "34616108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34616108", "title": "Bill Gallagher (inventor)", "text": "Bill Gallagher (inventor)\n\nAlfred William Gallagher MBE (17 May 1911 – 8 August 1990) (known as Bill Gallagher) was a New Zealand farmer, inventor, manufacturing engineer, businessman and commercial fisherman. He was born in Hamilton, New Zealand on 17 May 1911.\n\nHe developed the electric fence for farmers in 1936–1937, and founded the Gallagher Group to manufacture it.\n\nHis son, Sir William (Bill) Gallagher, joined the family business in the 1970s and still owns it as of 2013. Another son, John, was in the business until 1997. \n\nGallagher died from cancer in Hamilton in 1990 and was buried in Hamilton Park Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "22608006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22608006", "title": "BioFach", "text": "BioFach\n\nBioFach is the world's largest trade fair for organic food and agriculture. It is held each year in the month of February, in Nuremberg, Germany. It brings together 2774 exhibitors and approximately 46700 trade visitors from around 130 countries. \n"}
{"id": "2246651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2246651", "title": "Blow fill seal", "text": "Blow fill seal\n\nBlow-Fill-Seal (BFS) technology is a manufacturing technique used to produce small, (0.1mL) and large volume, (500mL +) liquid-filled containers. Originally developed in Europe in the 1930s, it was introduced in the United States in the 1960s, but over the last 20 years it has become more prevalent within the pharmaceutical industry and is now widely considered to be the superior form of aseptic processing by various medicine regulatory agencies including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the packaging of pharmaceutical and healthcare products. \n\nThe basic concept of BFS is that a container is formed, filled, and sealed in a continuous process without human intervention, in a sterile enclosed area inside a machine. Thus this technology can be used to aseptically manufacture sterile pharmaceutical liquid dosage forms. \n\nThe process is multi-stepped: first, pharmaceutical-grade plastic resin is vertically heat extruded through a circular throat to form a hanging tube called the parison. This extruded tube is then enclosed within a two-part mould, and the tube is cut above the mould. The mould is transferred to the filling zone, or sterile filling space, where filling needles (mandrels) are lowered and used to inflate the plastic to form the container within the mould. Following the formation of the container, the mandrel is used to fill the container with liquid. Following filling the mandrels are retracted and a secondary top mould seals the container. All actions take place inside a sterile shrouded chamber inside the machine. The product is then discharged to a non-sterile area for labeling, packaging and distribution. \n\nBlow-fill-seal technology reduces personnel intervention making it a more robust method for the aseptic preparation of sterile pharmaceuticals. BFS is used for the filling of vials for parenteral preparations and infusions, eye drops, and inhalation products. Generally the plastic containers are made up of polyethylene and polypropylene. Polypropylene is more commonly used to form containers which are further sterilised by autoclaving as polypropylene has greater thermostability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54454066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54454066", "title": "Chocolate industry in the Philippines", "text": "Chocolate industry in the Philippines\n\nThe chocolate industry in the Philippines evidences the agricultural roots of the Philippine society. The growing of cacao or cocoa boasts a long history stretching from the colonial times. Originating from Mesoamerican forests, cacao was first introduced by the Spanish colonizers four centuries ago. Since then the Philippine cocoa industry has been the primary producer of cocoa beans in the Southeast Asia. There are many areas of production of cacao in the Philippines, owing to its agriculture. The chocolate industry is currently on a small to medium scale.\n\nThe word “chocolate” as we know it today was spelled in different ways throughout time, in different ways such as “chocalatall,” “jocolatte,” “jacolatte,” and “chockelet.” It is a derivative of the word \"cacahuatl\" or \"xocoatl\", a bitter drink the Aztecs brewed from cacao beans mixed with spices, wine, and other local ingredients that can be traced back to Pre-Columbian Mexico.\n\n\"Cacahuatl\" is an amalgamation of the Mayan words \"kaj\" and \"kab\", which translates to “bitter juice.” The suffix \"-atl\" that means water or liquid was added to \"kajkab\", forming \"kajkabatl,\" and then later \"kajkabhuatl\" with the insertion of the diphthong \"hu\".\n\nThe cacao tree, whose scientific Latin name given by Swedish botanist Carolus Linnaeus in 1753 is \"Theobroma cacao\", is one of the 22 \"Theobroma\" species. \"Theobroma\" means “food for the Gods\", from the Greek words \"theo\" (god) and \"broma\" (food). This species is utilized as raw materials for pharmaceutical products and cosmetics, however, cacao is primarily used for the production of chocolate and cocoa by processing the beans.\n\nIn the Filipino language, chocolate is translated as \"tsokolate\", which is also a hot chocolate drink made from \"tablea\". \"Tablea\" are cacao tablets made from roasted and ground cacao nibs molded into rounds or tablets traditionally used in the Philippines for making hot chocolate. A \"batirol\", a wooden whisk-like instrument, is the Filipino adaptation of the Spanish word \"batidor\" that is utilized by rubbing the stick back and forth between one's palms in order to thoroughly mix hot water with the tablet in a chocolatera to make it frothy. The result is \"tsokolate de batirol\", a thick, creamy, hot chocolate drink, otherwise referred to as \"sikawate\" in the Visayas region.\n\n\"Tablea\" is also used in the production of \"champorado\", among many other cacao delicacies. Otherwise referred to as \"tsamporado,\" it is a sweet, rice porridge dish in the Philippines enjoyed by many hot or cold, usually partnered with dried fish, either \"tuyo\" or \"daing\".\n\nThe cacao plant was primarily brought to the Philippines in the 1700s when a Spanish galleon from Mexico transported pure Criollo, considered to be one of the best kinds of cacao, from Mesoamerica to the Pacific. Although cacao trees were originally grown in Mexico and Central America, the Philippines became an ideal cultivation grounds for cacao because of its geography as a tropical rainforest located 10-15 degrees from the Earth's Equator, with the cacao belt located within 20 degrees of the Equator. Today, cacao trees are cultivated throughout equatorial region including the Caribbean, Africa, Southeast Asia, and the Pacific Islands of Samoa and New Guinea.\n\nBatangas\n\nAlthough the province of Batangas only accounts for 0.47 metric tons of cacao production , it is well known for its \"tsokolate\" \"tablea\" or chocolate tablets which are considered one of its delicacies and is often used to make traditional Filipino hot chocolate.\n\nCebu\n\nCebu along with other Central Visayas provinces contribute only around 1% of cacao production in the country, however, in terms of producing world-class and award-winning chocolate, Cebu is known for producing quality cacao. Although there are currently less than a hundred farmer associations, cooperatives, and individual growers planting on an estimated 2,000 hectares in Cebu, the province aims to have a greater share in cacao production. The province is home to \"criollo\" or the “cacao bisaya,” which is a superior quality cacao that has a strong, aromatic bittersweet taste and rich texture. It is also home to Ralfe Gourmet, The Chocolate Chamber, and Casa de Cacao headed by Raquel Choa who is known for elevating Philippine cacao-based products.\n\nDavao Region\n\nAccording to the Philippines Statistic Authority's CountrySTAT, 81% of annual production of cacao in the Philippines comes from the Davao region. Davao del Sur, Davao City, Davao del Norte, Davao Oriental, and Compostela Valley are the top 5 producers in terms of volume of production in 2016. There are also more than 20,000 hectares of cacao farms in the region, and Davao City, amongst the 5 provinces, has the largest area of 6,060 hectares. The region is also home to one of the well-known cacao agri-ventures in the country, Malagos chocolate.\n\nDepartment of Agriculture\n\nA government agency, the Department of Agriculture (DA) oversees the advancement of agricultural development of the Philippines through the provisions of policies, public investments, and support services. The department provides a range from technical to financial support for cacao farmers since it considers cacao as a high-value crop based on Republic Act No. 7900 which seeks to “promote the production, processing, marketing and distribution of high-valued crops”.\n\nDepartment of Trade and Industry\n\nThe Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) is a Philippine government department in charge of attaining the country's goal of having a globally competitive and innovative industry and services sector which would lead to the creation of jobs and inclusive growth. They have created programs and policies in support of the growth of the cacao industry.\n\nCocoaPhil\n\nCocoa Foundation of the Philippines (CocoaPhil) is a non-profit, umbrella organization which represents the interests of the local cocoa industry. Their aim is to increase the number of hectares growing cocoa with the goal of achieving the Philippines Cacao Roadmap made by the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Trade and Industry. The specific objective of the organization is to develop at least 100,000 hectares into cacao farms as an intercrop under coconut trees.\n\nCIDAMi\n\nAn active cacao value-chain organization in the agri-enterprise section, Cacao Industry Development Association of Mindanao Inc. (CIDAMi) is composed of members ranging from farmers to academe with the vision of world quality cacao-producing Mindanao. CIDAMi has several projects, services and training partnered with professional organizations to accomplish its vision like CaCao Feast and Cacao Doctors Training.\n\nFedCo\n\nThe Federation of Cooperatives in Mindanao (FedCo) is a secondary cooperative based in Mindanao with the aim to improve the socio-economic condition of its members through the export of the best quality agricultural products like cacao and bananas in the international stage. Their operation is centered around the empowerment of small farmers by directly connecting them to international buyers.\n\nCacao, which originated from South American forests, is the source material of chocolate products. However, modern cacao is mostly produced by African and European countries such as the Ivory Coast, Germany and Belgium. As a minor player in the global industry, the Philippines also engages in cacao cultivation nearly everywhere around the archipelago, even during the early 1900s.\n\nThe Philippine cacao industry consists mostly of smallholder farmers who supply medium-scale manufacturers. However, domestic production is insufficient; local cacao demand outweighs the cacao supply both locally and globally. One major factor that affects caco production in the country is \"the lack of post-harvest knowledge, equipment, and facilities to ensure bean quality for chocolate manufacturing.\" Since that is the case, cacao exports are far less than country's imports. The Department of Trade and Industry Reports that in 2012, cacao imports amounted to 3,662 tons, while cacao exports amounted to only 512 tons.\n\n\"Imports of Cocoa and Cocoa Preparations (million kg.)\" \n\n\"Exports of Cocoa and Cocoa Preparations (million kg.)\" \nRecent increase in the number of cafes and restaurants offering chocolate or chocolate-based drinks provided for the relative rise of tablea market opportunities. In addition to that, healthy lifestyle trends in the past years contributed to this gradual increase of demand. This is seen as a good sign of possible profit translation for cacao farmers and manufacturers.\n\nPhilippine chocolate market is dominated by both local and international companies. The three largest companies in the Philippines processing cocoa are Universal Robina, Commonwealth Foods, and Goya—all of which are located within Metro Manila. Also contributing to the chocolate market in the country are several well-known commercial brands such as Nestlé, Hershey's, and Cadbury Adams.\n\n\"Local and Foreign Cocoa-processing Companies\"\n\nTheo & Philo was started by Philo Chua in 2010. It is the first bean-to-bar, single origin chocolate maker in the Philippines. Theo & Philo chocolates undergo a six step process to develop its quality. The flavors include Dark Chocolate with Calamansi, Milk Chocolate Adobo, Dark Chocolate Siling Labuyo, Milk Chocolate with Barako Coffee and Dark Chocolate with Green Mango and Sea Salt.\n\nMalagos Chocolate is a single origin chocolate producer from Davao. Malagos is a word meaning “malakas na agos” or “strong flow of water.\" Malagos is a farm at the foot of Mt. Talomo in Barangay Baguio District, said to be along the equator where the cacao thrives best. The process of planting, growing, fermentation, drying, sorting, roasting, and production of the chocolate is done on this farm.\n\nThe Fabros Farm covers around 50 hectares and 30,000 tree seedlings are planted. has two locations – Agtedtedted, the pioneer farm, and Mumunsi, in Aurora. Cacao is endemic in Maria Aurora and cacao trees are grown in backyards. Mumunsi Chocolate Café is named after the mountain where cacao trees are planted.\n\nRaquel Choa was taught by her grandmother on how to plant cacao. She eventually became a tablea maker and is the founder and president of Ralfe Gourmet. Ralfe Gourmet produces tablea that is 100% cacao. To produce their cacao, he beans are roasted, fermented, and solar-dried.\n\nUniversal Robina Corporation (URC) is one of the largest food and beverage manufacturers in the Philippines. They became famous for their instant coffee mix which catered towards Filipinos. They are also the company behind the Jack ‘n Jill brand which currently produces 26 snack products under its name. The Jack ‘n Jill products are classified into 3 categories namely Salty Snacks, Bakery, Confectionery. URC is one of the heaviest consumers of chocolate because majority of their Bakery and Confectionery snacks incorporate chocolate. URC's first breakthrough chocolate product was the Nips. The candy coated chocolate, similar to the famous M&M's, which was popular among kids. This was successfully followed by multiple chocolate products such as the chocolate covered marshmallow, Wiggles; the chewy butterscotch caramel, Chooey Choco; the chocolate coated nougat bar, Cloud 9.\n\nCommonwealth Food Incorporated is a multiproduct Philippine based company that produces coffee, chocolate, and biscuit products. Their chocolate production is overseen by the Philippine Food Industries Incorporated branch which is also known as the Philfood division. They are responsible for producing natural cocoa powder which does not go through Dutch-process procedures. They also produce chocolate syrup, mint-candy covered chocolate, Kool Joy; chocolate candy, Flat tops; and Cocoa Butter. They have reached consumers abroad by supplying cocoa butter to consumers from the United States of America and Europe. Commonwealth Food Incorporated also has a division that produces biscuits. The Fibisco Biscuit Corporation is responsible for the production of Filipino-favorite chocolate snacks such as the Choco Mallows, Hi-ro, and Chocolate Chip cookies.\n\nThe supply of cocoa has fluctuated in recent years due to climate and economic factors. The El Nino phenomenon that hit in the year 2009 greatly reduced the cocoa production in the following years. The extreme weather conditions added to the impending financial crises to limit both the supply and demand for cocoa. Cocoa supply is still decreasing even if the demand is rising. Many entrepreneurs and governments have been looking into cocoa production recently as demand for chocolate rises. They are looking to compete with the top producer of the plant which is Africa. They produce more than 70% of the global cocoa supply. On the other hand, Netherlands and United States of America are the largest consumers of cocoa beans; both consuming Billions of U.S Dollars' worth of the product.\n\nAccording to the United Nations Commodity Trade Statistics Database, the Philippines has shifted from a massive importer of cocoa beans into a steady exporter of the bean. Entrepreneurs had seen the potential of the cocoa bean industry. The increase in demand and the falling supply was obvious to them, therefore giving them the idea of planting many hectares of the plant. The Philippine government has also been encouraging the citizens to grow cocoa beans because of the shortage. They are assisting farmers and the industry by supplying land and tested procedures in order to increase the Philippine production of cocoa beans. The Philippines has the right climate and soil for the cocoa tree which leaves the government the problem of spreading the knowledge on how to plant and harvest for cocoa. Currently, they are making steady efforts to compete with other cocoa producers. The Philippine government is preparing for the cocoa shortage by the year 2020 and aims to increase production to 100,000 Metric Tons. Although the Philippines is failing to meet the local demand of 30,000 Metric Tons, the strong effort and government support is sure to make an impact in years to come.\n\nIn the Philippines, Cacao or cocoa beans are produced in many locations. These include Luzon, Mindanao, Joló, Basilan, Panay, Negros, Cebú, Bohol, Masbate and many more. Cocoa also refers to cocoa powder and cocoa butter, which are two by-products of the cacao bean after it has undergone processing. Cocoa and chocolate processing was first introduced in the country by Commonwealth Foods Inc. (ComFoods) in 1953, while Serg's Chocolate Products Inc. became the first modern chocolate manufacturing plant in Southeast Asia. \n\nFor planting cacao in the Philippines, there are currently 9 registered and approved varieties by the National Seed Industry of the Council of the Bureau of Plant Industry. These are based on high productivity, quality of the bean, consumer acceptability and resistance to pests and diseases. Soil requirements include good soil structure, which is deep and well-drained, but with sufficient water-holding capacity. Clay loam soil with an aggregate of sand, silt and clay work best due to its large pore spaces which \"promote aeration, drainage, and moisture retention\". Organic matter in the surface layer or soil is also important to cacao growth so the soil must be well-shaded to preserve the organic layer. Ideal rainfall and climate on the other hand is between 1,250 and 3,000 mm per annum, 1,500 to 2,000 mm in the dry season of not more than 3 months, and a temperature from 18 degrees to 32 degrees Celsius. This suitable temperature can be found in altitudes up to 700 meters or in areas between 300 and 1,200 meters above sea level. Because Cacao prefers a moisture-laden atmosphere, a climate of evenly distributed rainfall and few winds are ideal. \n\nAfter the seeds are selected carefully from highly productive trees which pest-free and disease-free, seeds are planted immediately either “at stake”, controlled seed beds, pots, or nurseries before they are transplanted to plantations. When field soils are forest land with good organic matter, tillage is not necessary. However, if the cacao is to be planted with other cash crops, a more thorough preparation, which includes plowing and harrowing the land, is needed. Roads, drainage, and shade trees are also established. Based on studies about distancing, cacao is generally planted in the following: cacao laid in rows 2 meters apart if open areas, 2.5 meters away from the base if under coconut trees, close planting followed by thinning, or 3 by 3 meters or 3 by 4 meters apart.\n\nAlthough trees raised from seeds are still practiced, grafted, budded, or asexually propagated cacao seedlings are now also practiced.\n\nPruning is generally done with great care using a sharp saw during , when branches have come out, or after harvest as to control the height of the tree and facilitate the work. The first pruning, which is done to control the height of where the first branch is formed, is generally at least 5 feet, so as not to hinder harvesting and maintenance. When five or more branches have grown, weak branches are pruned, leaving only \"three or four well-developed branches\". The surfaces with cuts are then painted with coal tar or lead paint so as to protect the cuts from diseases or pests.\n\nThe health of cacao trees are examined based on soil and leaf analyses. Mineral deficiencies are documented to determine fertilizer requirements. Fertilizers are applied on Cacao around two to three months after transplanting and are increased in the second, third and fourth year of a tree. The fertilizers used on Cacao include Ammonium sulfate, Single superphosphate, Potassium sulfate, and Magnesium sulfate.\n\nCacao pods are harvested as soon as they are ripe or mature. The ripening period of cacao generally happens during dry season and can be determined either by the aroma of chocolate that pervades the plantation or the changing of pod color wherein they turn reddish or yellow according to the variety. The pods are harvested using a sharp instrument such as a knife and are cut as close to the stem as possible. This is done with utmost care so as not to damage the flower cushions, pods, and tree itself. Infested pods are removed. About four harvest cycles with 10 to 21 days intervals are generally made per season.\n\nSorting and grading will enhance bean quality. When the beans have completely dried, they are sorted and graded to remove flat, slaty, black, moldy, small, double beans and beans with insect damage. Beans are usually graded based on proportion of defective beans indicated by the Philippine National Standards for Cacao or Cocoa Beans. These processing and manufacturing guidelines successfully ensure quality before they are shipped or handled.\n\nThe dried cocoa beans are packed in bags made of food-grade or non-toxic materials such as jute bags or sacks that an imprint of the label, production number, date, the grade of the beans, code of the cooperative, farmer or area. They are stored in weatherproof, well ventilated, free from moisture, insects, or any other factor that can contaminate the cacao. \n\nAfter the seeds are shipped to different manufacturers, they are used for making cocoa powder, cocoa butter, the processing of tablea(cocoa liquor) and other chocolate products such as liquid chocolate, and chocolate bars. Tablea and cocoa powder are also used to create a variety of products such as hot chocolate, champorado, tablea de cacao cupcakes, tablea brownies, krinkles etc.\n\nFor chocolate bar flavors, Filipino chocolate brands such as Theo and Philo, Risa, CocoDolce, Kablon, and others, offer unique flavors that include chili, mango, calamansi, barako coffee, adobo, pili nuts, pastillas, bacon, turon, and coconut.\n\n"}
{"id": "42005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42005", "title": "Collaborative software", "text": "Collaborative software\n\nCollaborative software or groupware is application software designed to help people involved in a common task to achieve their goals. One of the earliest definitions of collaborative software is \"intentional group processes plus software to support them\".\n\nIn terms of the level of interaction it allows, collaborative software may be divided into: real-time collaborative editing (RTCE) platforms that allow multiple users to engage in live, simultaneous and reversible editing of a single file (usually a document), and version control (also known as revision control and source control) platforms, which allow separate users to make parallel edits to a file, while preserving every saved edit by every user as multiple files (that are variants of the original file).\n\nCollaborative software is a broad concept that overlaps considerably with computer-supported cooperative work (CSCW). According to Carstensen and Schmidt (1999) groupware is part of CSCW. The authors claim that CSCW, and thereby groupware, addresses \"how collaborative activities and their coordination can be supported by means of computer systems.\" Software products such as email, calendaring, text chat, wiki, and bookmarking belong to this category whenever used for group work, whereas the more general term social software applies to systems used outside the workplace, for example, online dating services and social networking sites like Twitter and Facebook.\n\nThe use of collaborative software in the work space creates a collaborative working environment (CWE).\n\nFinally, collaborative software relates to the notion of collaborative work systems, which are conceived as any form of human organization that emerges any time that collaboration takes place, whether it is formal or informal, intentional or unintentional. Whereas the groupware or collaborative software pertains to the technological elements of computer-supported cooperative work, collaborative work systems become a useful analytical tool to understand the behavioral and organizational variables that are associated to the broader concept of CSCW.\n\nDouglas Engelbart first envisioned collaborative computing in 1951 and documented his vision in 1962, with working prototypes in full operational use by his research team by the mid-1960s, and held the first public demonstration of his work in 1968 in what is now referred to as \"The Mother of All Demos.\" The following year, Engelbart's lab was hooked into the ARPANET, the first computer network, enabling them to extend services to a broader userbase. See also Intelligence Amplification , ARPANET Section on ARPANET Deployed, and the Doug Engelbart Archive Collection.\n\nOnline collaborative gaming software began between early networked computer users. In 1975, Will Crowther created Colossal Cave Adventure on a DEC PDP-10 computer. As internet connections grew, so did the numbers of users and multi-user games. In 1978 Roy Trubshaw, a student at University of Essex in the United Kingdom, created the game MUD (Multi-User Dungeon).\n\nThe US Government began using truly collaborative applications in the early 1990s. One of the first robust applications was the Navy's Common Operational Modeling, Planning and Simulation Strategy (COMPASS). The COMPASS system allowed up to 6 users to create point-to-point connections with one another; the collaborative session only remained while at least one user stayed active, and would have to be recreated if all six logged out. MITRE improved on that model by hosting the collaborative session on a server that each user logged into. Called the Collaborative Virtual Workstation (CVW), this allowed the session to be set up in a virtual file cabinet and virtual rooms, and left as a persistent session that could be joined later.\n\nIn 1996, Pavel Curtis, who had built MUDs at PARC, created PlaceWare, a server that simulated a one-to-many auditorium, with side chat between \"seat-mates\", and the ability to invite a limited number of audience members to speak. In 1997, engineers at GTE used the PlaceWare engine in a commercial version of MITRE's CVW, calling it InfoWorkSpace (IWS). In 1998, IWS was chosen as the military standard for the standardized Air Operations Center. The IWS product was sold to General Dynamics and then later to Ezenia.\n\nCollaborative software was originally designated as \"groupware\" and this term can be traced as far back as the late 1980s, when Richman and Slovak (1987) wrote:\n\nEven further back, in 1978 Peter and Trudy Johnson-Lenz coined the term groupware; their initial 1978 definition of groupware was, “intentional group processes plus software to support them.” Later in their article they went on to explain groupware as “computer-mediated culture... an embodiment of social organization in hyperspace.\" Groupware integrates co-evolving human and tool systems, yet is simply a single system.\n\nIn the early 1990s the first commercial groupware products were delivered, and big companies such as Boeing and IBM started using electronic meeting systems for key internal projects. Lotus Notes appeared as a major example of that product category, allowing remote group collaboration when the internet was still in its infancy. Kirkpatrick and Losee (1992) wrote then:\n\nThe complexity of groupware development is still an issue. One reason for this is the socio-technical dimension of groupware. Groupware designers do not only have to address technical issues (as in traditional software development) but also consider the organizational aspects and the social group processes that should be supported with the groupware application. Some examples for issues in groupware development are:\n\n\nOne approach for addressing these issues is the use of design patterns for groupware design. The patterns identify recurring groupware design issues and discuss design choices in a way that all stakeholders can participate in the groupware development process.\n\nGroupware can be divided into three categories depending on the level of collaboration:\n\n\nCollaborative management tools facilitate and manage group activities. Examples include:\n\nThe design intent of collaborative software (groupware) is to transform the way documents and rich media are shared in order to enable more effective team collaboration.\n\nCollaboration, with respect to information technology, seems to have several definitions. Some are defensible but others are so broad they lose any meaningful application. Understanding the differences in human interactions is necessary to ensure the appropriate technologies are employed to meet interaction needs.\n\nThere are three primary ways in which humans interact: conversations, transactions, and collaborations.\n\n\"Conversational interaction\" is an exchange of information between two or more participants where the primary purpose of the interaction is discovery or relationship building. There is no central entity around which the interaction revolves but is a free exchange of information with no defined constraints, generally focused on personal experiences. Communication technology such as telephones, instant messaging, and e-mail are generally sufficient for conversational interactions.\n\n\"Transactional interaction\" involves the exchange of transaction entities where a major function of the transaction entity is to alter the relationship between participants.\n\nIn \"collaborative interactions\" the main function of the participants' relationship is to alter a collaboration entity (i.e., the converse of transactional). When teams collaborate on projects it is called Collaborative project management.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22778675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22778675", "title": "Dee Ann McWilliams", "text": "Dee Ann McWilliams\n\nDee Ann McWilliams, is a retired United States Army Major General. McWilliams is currently president of the Women In Service for American Memorial Foundation. She took her commission in 1974 in the Women's Army Corps and was assigned to the Adjutant General Corps. In over 29 years with the Army, she held a variety of Human Relations positions, commanding four companies, a training battalion, and a personnel brigade. She also taught national strategic studies and leadership, and served as an Equal Opportunity Officer.\n\nMG McWilliams was born in Shreveport, Louisiana to Lorenzo Dow McWilliams, Jr. and Rachel Ramsey McWilliams. She attended public schools in Timpson, Texas. She was the middle child of three children.\n\nMG McWilliams commanded four companies in her early military years, HQ Company, Military Community, Augsburg, Germany; Personnel Assistance Point, JFK Airport, New York; I Corps Personnel Service Company and 9th Infantry Division Personnel Service Company, Fort Lewis, WA; 42d Adjutant General Battalion, Fort Dix, NJ; and 3d Personnel Group, Fort Hood, TX. She served on staff as Chief, Department of Army Secretariat for Selection Boards; at the National War College; as Director, Enlisted Personnel Management, Army Personnel Command; and as Director, Military Personnel Management, HQ Department of the Army; Washington, DC.\n\nMG McWilliams was promoted below the zone to Lieutenant Colonel and Below the Zone to Colonel. As commander of the 42nd AG Battalion, McWilliams worked to mobilize 5,700 Reserve Soldiers to the Southwest Asia Sustainment Force while simultaneously demobilizing 8,000 Reservists from the first Gulf War and performing normal reception duties for new Soldiers. She has served as III Corps AG and commander of the 3rd Personnel Group at Fort Hood, Texas, and director of enlisted personnel management at the Army HRC.\n\nAs Director of Military Personnel Management for the Department of the Army, General McWilliams developed policy and strategy for staffing, salary compensation, and training for over one million soldiers, to include recruitment of more than one hundred thousand annually. She also served as Deputy Chief of Staff for Personnel and Installation Management in Europe where she provided human resource and quality of life support to soldiers in Germany, Italy, Hungary, Kosovo, Croatia, Bosnia, Greece, and Egypt. In 2003, McWilliams was nominated to become the Assistant Secretary for Public and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Department of Veterans Affairs. This nomination was later withdrawn at her request.\n\nHer military awards include the Distinguished Service Medal, Legion of Merit, Joint Meritorious Service Medal, Meritorious Service Medal, Army Achievement Medal, Join Service Achievement Medal, Army Achievement Medal\n\nGeneral McWilliams holds degrees from Lon Morris College, Texas Womans University, the National War College, and Stephen F. Austin University where she was named a distinguished alumnus in 1998.\n\nAfter retiring in 2003, she established the Lessons Learned Center for the director of national intelligence and served as center director. \nIn 2007, MG McWilliams joined the board of directors for the Women In Military Service For America Memorial Foundation, assuming the position of Vice Chair in 2014. She formerly served as President of the Army Women's Foundation, a Director on the Army Historical Foundation Board, and on the Lon Morris College Board of Trustees. She was the 2013 recipient of the American Veterans Center Lillian K. Keil Award for outstanding contribution to women’s service in the United States military and was named a Trailblazer by Women Veterans Interactive. In 2015, MG McWiliams was inducted into the Adjutant General Corps' Hall of fame.\n\n"}
{"id": "1708046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1708046", "title": "Defense Contract Audit Agency", "text": "Defense Contract Audit Agency\n\nThe Defense Contract Audit Agency (DCAA) is an agency of the United States Department of Defense under the direction of the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller). It was established in 1965 to perform all contract audits for the Department of Defense. Previously, the various branches of military service were responsible for their own contract audits.\n\nThe DCAA's duties include financial and accounting advisory services for the Department of Defense in connection with negotiation, administration and settlement of contracts and subcontracts.\n\nThe Defense Contract Audit Agency was established on January 8, 1965. Previously, the various branches of the military were responsible for their own contract audits and there was little consistency in contract administration and auditing.\n\nThe first efforts to perform joint audits began with the U.S. Navy and Army Air Corps in 1939. Audit coordination committees were formed by the Navy and Army Air Corps in December 1942 for contracts involving more than one service branch. A single contract audit manual was issued on June 18, 1952, serving the three military service branches existing at that time. However, writing standard guidelines was difficult, due to differences in the organization and practice of procurement between the services.\n\nDefense contract audits became the responsibility of a single agency, the DCAA, in response to a feasibility study directed by Secretary of Defense Robert S. McNamara in 1962. William B. Petty, former Deputy Comptroller of the U.S. Air Force, was appointed in 1965 as the new agency's director and Edward T. Cook, former Director of Contract Audit for the Navy, was selected as the deputy director.\n\nAs of September 30, 2013, the Defense Contract Audit Agency had 4,933 employees, located at more than 300 offices throughout the United States, Europe, Asia, and in the Pacific. This workforce consisted of 4,334 auditors and 599 support staff.\n\nThe Agency provides standardized contract audit services for the Department of Defense, as well as accounting and financial advisory services regarding contracts and subcontracts to all DoD components responsible for procurement and contract administration. These services are provided in connection with negotiation, administration, and settlement of contracts and subcontracts. DCAA does not provide consulting and advisory services to contractors due to independence requirements.\n\nPrior to 2015, DCAA also provided contract audit services to other government agencies, as well as other countries under the Foreign Military Sales (FMS) program, on a reimbursable basis. The largest non-DoD agency for which DCAA performed audits was NASAprimarily since the same government contractors do substantial business with both DoD and NASA, especially on major programs. However, Congress banned DCAA from performing non-Defense audits in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016.\n\nThe DCAA headquarters is located at Fort Belvoir, in the same building as the Defense Logistics Agency. Under headquarters, the agency is organized into five geographic regions and a Field Detachment group, the latter handling contracts involving classified information. As of 2011, the DCAA was organized into the following geographic regions.\n\n\nWithin each region are 15 to 22 field audit offices. These are referred to as \"resident\" offices when dedicated to the audit of one contractor, generally located on the contractor's property. \"Branches\" are field audit offices that perform audits of multiple contractors, and may have subordinate \"sub-offices\" responsible for audits of a single contractor.\n\nThe DCAA also operates the Defense Contract Audit Institute (DCAI), located in Sandy Springs, Georgia. Its teaching staff maintain a library of self-study courses as well as providing seminars by live instructors to meet the training requirements of DCAA employees. On a limited basis, the institute also provides training for other government agencies and foreign military employees.\n\nDefense contract audits are required to be performed in accordance with Government Auditing Standards. These standards, commonly referred to as the \"Yellow Book\", are published by the Comptroller General of the United States. Policies and guidelines more specific to defense contract auditing are detailed in the \"Defense Contract Audit Manual\", a continuously updated online publication of the DCAA.\n\nThe objective of a contract audit is to express an opinion, in the form of an auditor's report, on a contractor's cost estimates or cost claims, depending on the type of contract. This involves evaluation of the contractor's policies, procedures and other internal controls over contract costs, and examining samples of supporting records for individual transactions. Government Auditing Standards require the contract auditor to maintain strict independence during audits, avoiding relationships and situations that would look questionable to third parties.\n\nThe Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) assign responsibility to the contractor for maintaining sufficient records to support claimed costs. FAR 31.201-2(d) requires the contractor to keep \"records, including supporting documentation, adequate to demonstrate that costs claimed have been incurred, are allocable to the contract, and comply with applicable cost principles\". The same FAR provision allows a government agency's contracting officer to \"disallow all or part of a claimed cost that is inadequately supported.\"\n\nA major area of emphasis in a DCAA audit is determining the adequacy and reliability of the contractor's records to prove the accuracy and reasonableness of contract costs. FAR 4.703(a) requires contractors to \"make available records, which includes books, documents, employee time & attendance records, accounting procedures and practices, and other data ... to satisfy contract negotiation, administration, and audit requirements\".\n\nA report released by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) on July 23, 2008 alleged that DCAA managers threatened a senior auditor with personnel action if he did not remove negative findings from a report criticizing a large federal contractor. The report found a too-cozy relationship between management at the DCAA and some of the contractors they are assigned to audit, including Boeing. GAO also said auditors who complied with the investigation were subject to harassment and intimidation from their supervisors.\n\nThe DCAA responded on July 25 that it had asked the US Department of Defense's (DoD) Inspector General (IG) office to investigate the GAO's claims. \"We take the GAO report very seriously,\" said April Stephenson, DCAA's director. US Senator Claire McCaskill said GAO may have uncovered the \"biggest auditing scandal in the history of this town,\" and asked the DoD to immediately fire the supervisors cited in the report.\n\nAn \"Associated Press\" report on November 10, 2008 revealed that DCAA challenged $4.6 billion, or only 1.2 percent, of the contracts it audited as lacking necessary documentation. The agency has not used its subpoena authority in over 20 years to produce the required paperwork from defense contractors under audit. According to the Associated Press, in contrast to the GAO, which saves taxpayers $94 for every dollar it spends, DCAA's return on investment is only $7. As an example, the Associated Press reported that a May 2008 audit of Bechtel Group, supervised by DCAA regional director Christopher Andrezze, showed a \"chronic failure\" by Bechtel to produce the required documentation for the audit. In spite of this, DCAA issued a report rating Bechtel's internal accounting procedures as \"adequate,\" a passing grade which meant DoD auditors could ease up on the company. The DCAA report did not mention the company's failure to produce the required documentation.\n\nA Government Accountability Office (GAO) report in September 2009 found that agency auditors failed to follow \"basic auditing standards\" in 65 of 69 audits. In its report, the GAO noted that the agency \nlacks sufficient independence from the contractors and the DoD agencies doing business with those contractors. The GAO concluded that pressure from outside groups creates a hostile work environment in \nwhich audit reports are falsified to appease contractors. In response to the GAO report, Senator Joe Lieberman said, \"Perhaps it’s time for us to consider separating DCAA from the Department of Defense and … making it an independent auditing agency.\"\n\nThe DoD IG released a report of its investigation into the agency on August 31, 2009. It found that the DCAA has an \"environment not conducive to performing quality audits.\" An audit of Boeing was cited in which the company was allowed to keep $217 million in taxpayer's money, because a DCAA regional auditor did not perform his/her duties properly. When Boeing was unresponsive to a request for information, the regional auditor ordered a subordinate to change the audit report in Boeing's favor. Said Senator Tom Coburn about the agency in response to the report, \"It’s atrocious. Several of those people ought to be fired.\" Added Senator Claire McCaskill, \"This report is just further confirmation that DCAA is fundamentally broken. I certainly hope the Department of Defense takes these accusations seriously. As I said before, if somebody is not held accountable for the shoddy audits the DCAA has produced, nobody should take this agency or their work seriously in the future.\" DCAA director Stephenson stated in the IG report that her agency concurred with the IG's recommendations.\n\nIn the wake of the investigations, Stephenson was removed from her position as director of the agency by DoD comptroller Robert Hale and reassigned to Hale's staff effective November 9, 2009. She was replaced by Patrick Fitzgerald, previously the Auditor General of the United States Army Audit Agency.\n\nAlthough the Defense Contract Audit Agency primarily audits Federal defense contractors, prior to the passage of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 it was also permitted to audit entities doing business with other parts of the United States Government at the request of the cognizant oversight authorities. Such a request would usually occur when the oversight authority in question did not have the resources or expertise to perform an audit themselves.\n\nBeginning in 2011, the National Science Foundation (NSF) Office of the Inspector General (NSF-IG) requested assistance from DCAA in examining the National Ecological Observatory Network (NEON), the largest construction project in the NSF's history. DCAA auditors examined the initial (2008) proposal by NEON and concluded that the proposal was so defective that the project should never have been funded based upon it. Subsequently, the NSF-IG requested that DCAA examine NEON's accounting system to determine whether it was properly stewarding taxpayer funds. J. Kirk McGill, CPA was the Auditor-in-Charge of that engagement. McGill and his team ultimately determined that NEON's system of internal control over taxpayer funds was riddled with material weaknesses and significant deficiencies. McGill (who is also a Certified Management Accountant) concluded that NEON's management accounting was so deficient that the project could go millions of dollars over budget before NEON's management or the NSF would be able to react. Of even further concern, McGill (an expert on fraud and both a Certified Forensic Accountant and a Certified Fraud Examiner) discovered that NEON had spent approximately $1.8 million of taxpayer money through an extra-legal methodology known as a \"management fee\" on illegal expenditures including alcohol, lobbying, parties, and luxury travel.\n\nMcGill prepared a draft audit report for review by his superiors containing the findings above. That draft was approved (after routine revisions) by his immediate superior, Supervisory Auditor Michael Quant, as well as by his second level supervisor Field Audit Office Manager Allen Jones. The office's quality assurance specialist Angie Vaill concurred. NSF Inspector General Allison Lerner was personally briefed regarding the findings on May 23, 2013.\n\nUnfortunately, McGill's finding that \"management fees\" such as that used by NEON were nothing more than a fraudulent evasion of the prohibitions against spending taxpayer money on certain expenditures would have seriously embarrassed the United States Department of Defense - the largest payer of those fees within the United States Government. Perhaps in response to this situation, DCAA Regional Audit Manager Jerry McAfee and DCAA Central Region Deputy Regional Director Martha McKune (McGill's third and fourth level supervisors respectively) ordered McGill, Jones and Quant to issue an unqualified (clean) audit report on NEON. When they refused, DCAA Deputy Director Anita Bales called McGill and threatened his employment if he did not stop 'rocking the boat'. When McGill again refused to falsely issue a clean opinion, McAfee (acting on orders from McKune) informed the NSF-IG on that DCAA had found no wrongdoing at NEON (contrary to the briefing on May 23, 2013) \"without\" telling McGill, Jones, Quant and Vaill that he had done so. On April 4, 2014, McGill, Quant, Jones and Vaill were given a direct order to issue the clean opinion. McGill refused and resigned from the audit rather than sign a \"false report\", while Jones, Quant and Vaill agreed to follow the order under protest.\n\nMcGill notified retired United States Army Criminal Investigation Command Agent Angela Janysek, then the Assistant Director of Internal Review at DCAA (and later its Inspector General), that the order to issue the clean audit report was illegal. The audit was sent to DCAA's Mid-Atlantic and Northeastern Regions for additional reviews. The Mid-Atlantic review concluded on March 14, 2014, that \"We don't comment on Management Fee. I[n], the nonprofit arena, this is how the contractor pays for unallowable costs and the agencies know this to be a fact\" - in other words, DCAA management was aware that \"management fees\" like the one at NEON are used to pay illegal costs, but had deliberately looked the other way. On June 27, 2014, the Northeastern Region review determined that none of McGill's major findings (including the lack of control, and the \"management fee\") issues were legitimate, and ordered them removed from the final report. Jones, acting on this direct order, signed the final audit report and issued it without McGill's findings. McGill stated that he would take the matter to the appropriate oversight authorities. Immediately thereafter on June 30, 2014, DCAA Director Patrick Fitzgerald abruptly announced his retirement from Federal service (perhaps to avoid responsibility for the debacle), and DCAA Deputy Director Anita Bales (who had threatened McGill in January 2014) was appointed to replace him.\n\nMcGill concluded that both the underlying findings at NEON as well as the order to remove those findings from the final audit report constituted fraud, waste, abuse, and/or corruption. As a result, he determined that he was obligated to report the matter by 5 CFR § 2635.101(b)(11) - the \"Code of Ethics for Executive Branch Employees\". Because McGill determined that he was required to report the alleged wrongdoing by both NEON and DCAA as part of his official duties, and because the Antideficiency Act prohibits Federal Employees from performing any of their official duties off the clock, McGill argued that blowing the whistle on the wrongdoing was actually part of his job, rather than a private act (as all whistleblowing had been prior to this point). McGill argued that the Whistleblower Protection Act, as modified by the \"Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act of 2012\" protected his activities as whistleblowing, at the same time as the Antideficiency Act and \"Code of Ethics\" required them. DCAA was forced to agree with his arguments, and McGill became the first Federal Employee authorized to perform protected whistleblowing activities on official time. This could have a major impact on the willingness of Federal Employees to blow the whistle, as prior to McGill all whistleblowing was performed on personal time - an expense many Federal Employees were not willing to bear.\n\nThus authorized to act, McGill notified the Office of the Inspector General, U.S. Department of Defense (DoDIG) of the wrongdoing. When DoDIG failed to act, McGill went directly to Congress and notified several members and committees including: the United States Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the United States Senate Committee on the Judiciary, the United States House Committee on Science, Space and Technology, and the United States House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. He also informed Senator Rand Paul, Senator Chuck Grassley, Senator Claire McCaskill, and Senator Michael Bennet.\n\nOn September 3, 2014, Senators Grassley and Paul sent joint letters to NEON and the NSF asking for an explanation for McGill's findings. On September 18, 2014, The Washington Post broke the story.\n\nOn September 25, 2014, McGill was contacted by DCAA Security Officer Jenny Lindenbaum. Lindenbaum accused McGill of making terrorist threats against the United States Capitol and stated that she had received \"multiple reports\" that he was taking medication related to mental illness, that he was seeking treatment for mental illness, and that he was a danger to his coworkers. Lindebaum stated that McGill's security clearance eligibility could be revoked (leading to his firing), and denied knowing that McGill was a whistleblower, but Assistant Director Janysek confirmed to McGill that she personally told Lindenbaum that McGill was a whistleblower. McGill denied the accusations in writing, and also noted that Lindenbaum had lied about knowing that he was a whistleblower. The investigation was apparently closed without comment.\n\nOn October 1, 2014, McGill and his entire team was involuntarily transferred from the Denver Branch Office of DCAA, to the Rocky Mountain Branch Office. At the same time, Supervisory Auditor Quant was sent to a different office — splitting the team of McGill, Jones and Quant into three pieces. Meanwhile, Deputy Regional Director McKune and Regional Audit Manager McAfee were transferred to different positions in DCAA.\n\nOn December 3, 2014 a hearing on the matter was held before the United States House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. A second hearing was held on February 3, 2015. In April 2015 the Office of Management and Budget ordered all departments and agencies not to use \"management fees\" to pay for illegal expenditures. Meanwhile, NASA banned the practice entirely. On September 18, 2015, a third hearing was held. The Committee ultimately substantiated McGill's allegations towards NEON and on December 11, 2015, NEON was fired from the project. This represents one of the largest Federal agreement terminations for cause in history.\n\nMcGill's case for whistleblower reprisal under 5 U.S.C. § 2302 remains under investigation at the United States Office of Special Counsel. This is not the first time DCAA has been caught ordering its auditors to remove negative findings from its audit reports, nor the first time that it has been caught retaliating against auditors when they refuse to do so. The previous incident cost DCAA Director April Stephenson her job, perhaps explaining why DCAA Director Patrick Fitzgerald chose to retire rather than face scrutiny, leaving his deputy to attend the December 3, 2014, hearing in his place.\n\nAs noted above, McGill's whistleblowing was conducted pursuant to his official duties, meaning that unlike many whistleblowers he remained at his post and blew the whistle without going outside of his duties. As mentioned previously, this could have a major impact on Federal whistleblowing in the future. Regardless, the fact that McGill's actions directly led to the termination of NEON's management of the multibillion-dollar National Ecological Observatory Network project makes him one of the most successful whistleblowers (at least dollar-wise) in history.\n\nMcGill also alleged on April 24, 2015 that DCAA is not actually an independent audit agency because it does not comply with the independence requirements of Government Auditing Standards. As a result, DCAA has not assigned him any assignments requiring independence since April, 2015.\n\nThe House Committee on Science, Space, and Technology passed the NSF Major Research Facility Reform Act (H.R. 5049) in April 2016. The purpose of the Act is to implement significant reforms related to National Science Foundation (NSF) Major Research Equipment and Facilities Construction projects, such as the National Ecological Observatory Network (NEON). Indeed, resolving the misconduct at NEON and preventing such misconduct in future at NEON and other NSF projects forms the core purpose of the legislation. In the Committee report accompanying the bill, the Committee explicitly thanked McGill.\n\nOn 20 October 2016 the Project On Government Oversight issued a press release on the broader problems at DCAA using McGill and NEON as a case study to support their conclusion that DCAA may need to be removed from the Department of Defense to function properly due to its history of retaliating against whistleblowers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3070784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3070784", "title": "Dongfeng Yueda Kia", "text": "Dongfeng Yueda Kia\n\nDongfeng Yueda Kia Motor Co., Ltd. is an automotive manufacturing company headquartered in Yancheng, China and a joint venture between Dongfeng Motor Corporation, Yueda Group and Kia Motors.\n\nDongfeng Yueda Kia was founded in 2002.\n\nIn August 2003 it was announced that Dongfeng Yueda Kia would invest around US$600 million in the construction of a new assembly\nplant in Jiangsu Province with a capacity to produce 400,000 vehicles per year.\n\nIn November 2011 Dongfeng Yueda Kia announced that it would construct its third automobile manufacturing plant in Yancheng. Construction of the plant took place between 2012 and 2014. The plant has an annual production capacity of 300,000 cars.\n\n"}
{"id": "56639082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56639082", "title": "Eric Zinterhofer", "text": "Eric Zinterhofer\n\nEric Louis Zinterhofer (born August 1971) is an American private equity financier, and a founding partner of Searchlight Capital Partners.\n\nEric Zinterhofer was born in August 1971. He is the son of Dr Louis J. M. Zinterhofer and Susan A. Zinterhofer of Rumson, New Jersey. He earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nSearchlight Capital was established in 2010 by Zinterhofer, Oliver Haarmann, and Erol Uzumeri, its founding partners.\n\nIn June 1996, Zinterhofer married billionaire heiress Aerin Lauder, the daughter of Ronald Lauder in his home at Wainscott, Long Island, New York, with Rabbi Peter J. Rubinstein presiding. They have two sons.\n\nThey live in New York City and have homes in Easthampton, New York, and Aspen, Colorado.\n"}
{"id": "14215524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14215524", "title": "Fabrizio Freda", "text": "Fabrizio Freda\n\nFabrizio Freda (born 31 August 1957 in Naples) is an Italian business executive.\n\nHe was born in Naples and graduated from University of Naples Federico II in March 1981.\n\nHe was appointed president and chief executive officer of The Estée Lauder Companies Inc. on July 1, 2009, succeeding William P. Lauder. He had joined the company in March 2008, when he was appointed President and Chief Operating Officer. \n\nHe was previously President of Procter & Gamble's Global Snacks division. Freda joined P&G in 1982 and spent 10 years in the health and beauty division.\n\nHis total calculated compensation in 2016 as Chief Executive Officer, President and Director at The Estée Lauder Companies Inc. was $48,369,401.\n\nHe currently works directly with SVP, Israel Assa, on business operations.\n"}
{"id": "1076503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1076503", "title": "Generation Adidas", "text": "Generation Adidas\n\nGeneration Adidas is a joint venture between Major League Soccer and U.S. Soccer aimed at raising the level of young professional soccer talent in the United States. The program, sponsored by Adidas, offers professional-ready players in the U.S. developmental system not yet eligible for the MLS SuperDraft early entry, allowing MLS to compete with foreign professional clubs without comparable restrictions on player signing. From its establishment in 1997 to 2005, the program was sponsored by Nike and was called Project-40. Originally intended to improve the U.S. national team player pool, American national team eligibility is no longer required for program entry.\n\nCarlos Parra was the first Project-40 player when he signed with the league and was allocated to the New York/New Jersey MetroStars in 1997. Since then, the program has included players such as Tim Howard, DaMarcus Beasley, Maurice Edu, Carlos Bocanegra, Clint Dempsey, Jozy Altidore, Ben Olsen, Sacha Kljestan, Freddy Adu, Brad Guzan, Michael Bradley, Nick Rimando, and Kyle Beckerman. \n\nGeneration Adidas players do not count against the MLS senior roster and usually earn a much higher salary than the league minimum. Entering into the program automatically classifies a player as professional, and thus disqualifies them from playing college soccer. As a result, Generation Adidas players are also guaranteed scholarships to continue their college education should their professional career not pan out.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2000, MLS entered a team of Project-40 players, supplemented by other MLS players who did not get much playing time, into the A-League in the USL.\n\nIn 2017, MLS introduced Canadian Generation Adidas players, part of a new initiative with the Canadian Soccer Association. Canadian Generation Adidas players count as domestic players on US based MLS teams.\n\nGeneration Adidas graduates are announced at the end of the MLS season (prior to 2008, 2009, 2010, and 2011) so in the charts below the graduation year represents the season after which the player was announced by MLS as a Generation Adidas graduate.\n"}
{"id": "3414021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3414021", "title": "George W. Bush", "text": "George W. Bush\n\nGeorge Walker Bush (born July 6, 1946) is an American politician and businessman who served as the 43rd President of the United States from 2001 to 2009. He had previously served as the 46th Governor of Texas from 1995 to 2000.\n\nBush was born in New Haven, Connecticut, and grew up in Texas. After graduating from Yale University in 1968 and Harvard Business School in 1975, he worked in the oil industry. Bush married Laura Welch in 1977 and unsuccessfully ran for the U.S. House of Representatives shortly thereafter. He later co-owned the Texas Rangers baseball team before defeating Ann Richards in the 1994 Texas gubernatorial election. Bush was elected President of the United States in 2000 when he defeated Democratic incumbent Vice President Al Gore after a close and controversial win that involved a stopped recount in Florida. He became the fourth person to be elected president while receiving fewer popular votes than his opponent. Bush is a member of a prominent political family and is the eldest son of Barbara and George H. W. Bush, the 41st President of the United States. He is only the second president to assume the nation's highest office after his father, following the footsteps of John Adams and his son, John Quincy Adams. His brother, Jeb Bush, a former Governor of Florida, was a candidate for the Republican presidential nomination in the 2016 presidential election. His paternal grandfather, Prescott Bush, was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut.\n\nThe September 11 terrorist attacks occurred eight months into Bush's first term. Bush responded with what became known as the Bush Doctrine: launching a \"War on Terror\", an international military campaign that included the war in Afghanistan in 2001 and the Iraq War in 2003. He signed into law broad tax cuts, the Patriot Act, the No Child Left Behind Act, the Partial-Birth Abortion Ban Act, Medicare prescription drug benefits for seniors, and funding for the AIDS relief program known as PEPFAR. His tenure included national debates on immigration, Social Security, electronic surveillance, and torture. In the 2004 presidential race, Bush defeated Democratic Senator John Kerry in another relatively close election. After his re-election, Bush received increasingly heated criticism from across the political spectrum for his handling of the Iraq War, Hurricane Katrina, and other challenges. Amid this criticism, the Democratic Party regained control of Congress in the 2006 elections. In December 2007, the United States entered its longest post-World War II recession, often referred to as the \"Great Recession\", prompting the Bush administration to obtain congressional passage of multiple economic programs intended to preserve the country's financial system.\n\nNationally, Bush was both one of the most popular and unpopular U.S. presidents in history, having received the highest recorded presidential approval ratings in the wake of the 9/11 attacks, as well as one of the lowest approval ratings during the 2008 financial crisis. Bush finished his term in office in 2009 and returned to Texas, where he had purchased a home in Dallas. In 2010, he published his memoir, \"Decision Points\". His presidential library was opened in 2013. His presidency has been ranked among the worst in historians' polls that were published in the late 2000s and 2010s—he has consistently fallen in the bottom two sextiles. However, his favorability ratings with the public have increased since leaving office.\n\nGeorge Walker Bush was born on July 6, 1946, at Yale–New Haven Hospital in New Haven, Connecticut, while his father was a student at Yale. He was the first child of George Herbert Walker Bush and his wife, Barbara Pierce. He was raised in Midland and Houston, Texas, with four siblings, Jeb, Neil, Marvin and Dorothy. Another younger sister, Robin, died from leukemia at the age of three in 1953. His grandfather, Prescott Bush, was a U.S. Senator from Connecticut. His father was Ronald Reagan's vice president from 1981 to 1989 and the 41st U.S. president from 1989 to 1993. Bush has English and some German ancestry, along with more distant Dutch, Welsh, Irish, French, and Scottish roots.\n\nBush attended public schools in Midland, Texas, until the family moved to Houston after he had completed seventh grade. He then spent two years at The Kinkaid School, a prep school in Piney Point Village in the Houston area.\n\nBush attended high school at Phillips Academy, a boarding school in Andover, Massachusetts, where he played baseball and was the head cheerleader during his senior year. He attended Yale University (coincidentally located at his place of birth in New Haven, Connecticut) from 1964 to 1968, graduating with a Bachelor of Arts degree in history. During this time, he was a cheerleader and a member of the Delta Kappa Epsilon, serving as the president of the fraternity during his senior year. Bush became a member of the Skull and Bones society as a senior. Bush was a rugby union player and was on Yale's 1st XV. He characterized himself as an average student. His GPA during his first three years at Yale was 77, and he had a similar average under a nonnumeric rating system in his final year.\n\nIn the fall of 1973, Bush entered Harvard Business School. He graduated in 1975 with an MBA degree. At the time of his election, he was the only U.S. president to have earned an MBA.\n\nBush was initially engaged to Cathryn Lee Wolfman in 1967, but the engagement eventually fizzled out. Bush and Wolfman remained on good terms after the end of the relationship. While Bush was at a backyard barbecue in 1977, friends introduced him to Laura Welch, a schoolteacher and librarian. After a three-month courtship, she accepted his marriage proposal and they wed on November 5 of that year. The couple settled in Midland, Texas. Bush left his family's Episcopal Church to join his wife's United Methodist Church. On November 25, 1981, Laura Bush gave birth to fraternal twin daughters, Barbara and Jenna. Through his maternal side, he is a sixth-cousin four times removed of British Prime Minister Winston Churchill.\n\nPrior to getting married, Bush struggled with multiple episodes of alcohol abuse. In one instance on September 4, 1976, he was pulled over near his family's summer home in Kennebunkport, Maine for driving under the influence of alcohol. He was cited for DUI, fined $150 (), and got his Maine driver's license briefly suspended.\nBush said his wife has had a stabilizing effect on his life, and he attributes her influence to his 1986 decision to give up alcohol. While Governor of Texas, Bush said of his wife, \"I saw an elegant, beautiful woman who turned out not only to be elegant and beautiful, but very smart and willing to put up with my rough edges, and I must confess has smoothed them off over time.\"\n\nBush has been an avid reader throughout his adult life, preferring biographies and histories. During his time as president, Bush read the Bible daily. He also read 14 Lincoln biographies, and during the last three years of his presidency, he reportedly read 186 books. Walt Harrington, a journalist, recalled seeing \"books by John Fowles, F. Scott Fitzgerald, James Joyce, and Gore Vidal lying about, as well as biographies of Willa Cather and Queen Victoria\" in his home when Bush was a Texas oilman. Other activities include cigar smoking and golf. Since leaving the White House, Bush has also taken up oil painting.\n\nIn May 1968, Bush was commissioned into the Texas Air National Guard. After two years of training in active-duty service, he was assigned to Houston, flying Convair F-102s with the 147th Reconnaissance Wing out of the Ellington Field Joint Reserve Base. Critics, including former Democratic National Committee Chairman Terry McAuliffe, have alleged that Bush was favorably treated due to his father's political standing as a member of the House of Representatives, citing his selection as a pilot despite his low pilot aptitude test scores and his irregular attendance. In June 2005, the United States Department of Defense released all the records of Bush's Texas Air National Guard service, which remain in its official archives.\n\nIn late 1972 and early 1973, he drilled with the 187th Fighter Wing of the Alabama Air National Guard. He had moved to Montgomery, Alabama, to work on the unsuccessful U.S. Senate campaign of Republican Winton M. Blount. In 1972, Bush was suspended from flying for failure to take a scheduled physical exam. He was honorably discharged from the Air Force Reserve on November 21, 1974.\n\nIn 1977, Bush established Arbusto Energy, a small oil exploration company, although it did not begin operations until the following year. He later changed the name to Bush Exploration. In 1984, his company merged with the larger Spectrum 7, and Bush became chairman. The company was hurt by decreased oil prices, and it folded into HKN, Inc., with Bush becoming a member of HKN's board of directors. Questions of possible insider trading involving HKN arose, but a Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) investigation concluded that the information Bush had at the time of his stock sale was not sufficient to constitute insider trading.\n\nIn April 1989, Bush arranged for a group of investors to purchase a controlling interest in the Texas Rangers baseball franchise for $89 million and invested $500,000 himself to start. He then served as managing general partner for five years. He actively led the team's projects and regularly attended its games, often choosing to sit in the open stands with fans. Bush's sale of his shares in the Rangers in 1998 brought him over $15 million from his initial $800,000 investment.\n\nIn 1978, Bush ran for the House of Representatives from Texas's 19th congressional district. The retiring member, George H. Mahon, had held the district for the Democratic Party since 1935. Bush's opponent, Kent Hance, portrayed him as out of touch with rural Texans, and Bush lost the election with 46.8 percent of the vote to Hance's 53.2 percent.\n\nBush and his family moved to Washington, D.C., in 1988 to work on his father's campaign for the U.S. presidency. He served as a campaign advisor and liaison to the media, and assisted his father by campaigning across the country. In December 1991, Bush was one of seven people named by his father to run his father's 1992 presidential re-election campaign, as a \"campaign advisor\". The previous month, his father had asked him to tell White House chief of staff John H. Sununu that he should resign.\n\nBush declared his candidacy for the 1994 Texas gubernatorial election at the same time that his brother Jeb sought the governorship of Florida. His campaign focused on four themes: welfare reform, tort reform, crime reduction, and education improvement. Bush's campaign advisers were Karen Hughes, Joe Allbaugh, and Karl Rove.\n\nAfter easily winning the Republican primary, Bush faced popular Democratic incumbent Governor Ann Richards. In the course of the campaign, Bush pledged to sign a bill allowing Texans to obtain permits to carry concealed weapons. Richards had vetoed the bill, but Bush signed it into law after he became governor. According to \"The Atlantic Monthly\", the race \"featured a rumor that she was a lesbian, along with a rare instance of such a tactic's making it into the public record – when a regional chairman of the Bush campaign allowed himself, perhaps inadvertently, to be quoted criticizing Richards for 'appointing avowed homosexual activists' to state jobs\". \"The Atlantic\", and others, connected the lesbian rumor to Karl Rove, but Rove denied being involved. Bush won the general election with 53.5 percent against Richards' 45.9 percent.\n\nBush used a budget surplus to push through Texas's largest tax-cut, $2 billion. He extended government funding for organizations providing education of the dangers of alcohol and drug use and abuse, and helping to reduce domestic violence. Critics contended that during his tenure, Texas ranked near the bottom in environmental evaluations. Supporters pointed to his efforts to raise the salaries of teachers and improve educational test scores.\n\nIn 1999, Bush signed a law that required electric retailers to buy a certain amount of energy from renewable sources (RPS), which helped Texas eventually become the leading producer of wind powered electricity in the U.S.\n\nIn 1998, Bush won re-election with a record 69 percent of the vote. He became the first governor in Texas history to be elected to two consecutive four-year terms. For most of Texas history, governors served two-year terms; a constitutional amendment extended those terms to four years starting in 1975. In his second term, Bush promoted faith-based organizations and enjoyed high approval ratings. He proclaimed June 10, 2000, to be Jesus Day in Texas, a day on which he \"urge[d] all Texans to answer the call to serve those in need\".\n\nThroughout Bush's first term, he was the focus of national attention as a potential future presidential candidate. Following his re-election, speculation soared, and within a year he decided to seek the 2000 Republican presidential nomination.\n\nIncumbent Democratic president Bill Clinton was completing his second and final term, and the field for nomination for President of both parties was wide open. Bush was the Governor of Texas in June 1999 when he announced his candidacy for President of the United States. He entered a large field of hopefuls for the Republican Party presidential nomination that included John McCain, Alan Keyes, Steve Forbes, Gary Bauer, Orrin Hatch, Elizabeth Dole, Dan Quayle, Pat Buchanan, Lamar Alexander, John Kasich, and Bob Smith.\n\nBush portrayed himself as a compassionate conservative, implying he was more centrist than other Republicans. He campaigned on a platform that included bringing integrity and honor back to the White House, increasing the size of the United States Armed Forces, cutting taxes, improving education, and aiding minorities. By early 2000, the race had centered on Bush and McCain.\n\nBush won the Iowa caucuses, and although he was heavily favored to win the New Hampshire primary, he trailed McCain by 19 percent and lost that primary. Despite this, Bush regained momentum, and according to political observers, he effectively became the front runner after the South Carolina primary—which according to \"The Boston Globe\"—made history for his campaign's negativity. \"The New York Times\" described it as a smear campaign.\n\nOn July 25, 2000, Bush surprised some observers when he selected Dick Cheney—a former White House Chief of Staff, U.S. Representative, and Secretary of Defense—to be his running mate. At the time, Cheney was serving as head of Bush's vice presidential search committee. Soon after at the 2000 Republican National Convention, Bush and Cheney were officially nominated by the Republican Party.\n\nBush continued to campaign across the country and touted his record as Governor of Texas. During his campaign, Bush criticized his Democratic opponent, incumbent Vice President Al Gore, over gun control and taxation.\n\nWhen the election returns were tallied on November 7, Bush had won 29 states, including Florida. The closeness of the Florida outcome led to a recount. The initial recount also went to Bush, but the outcome was tied up in lower courts for a month until eventually reaching the U.S. Supreme Court. On December 9, in the controversial \"Bush v. Gore\" ruling, the Court reversed a Florida Supreme Court decision that had ordered a third count, and stopped an ordered statewide hand recount based on the argument that the use of different standards among Florida's counties violated the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The machine recount showed that Bush had won the Florida vote by a margin of 537 votes out of six million cast. Although he had received 543,895 fewer individual nationwide votes than Gore, Bush won the election, receiving 271 electoral votes to Gore's 266 (Gore's statewide victories had electoral votes tallying 267; however, one of Gore's pledged electors abstained, rendering the official tally at 266). Bush was the first person to win an American presidential election with fewer popular votes than another candidate since Benjamin Harrison in 1888.\n\nIn his 2004 bid for re-election, Bush commanded broad support in the Republican Party and did not encounter a primary challenge. He appointed Ken Mehlman as campaign manager, and Karl Rove devised a political strategy. Bush and the Republican platform emphasized a strong commitment to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, support for the USA PATRIOT Act, a renewed shift in policy for constitutional amendments banning abortion and same-sex marriage, reforming Social Security to create private investment accounts, creation of an ownership society, and opposing mandatory carbon emissions controls. Bush also called for the implementation of a guest worker program for immigrants, which was criticized by conservatives.\n\nThe Bush campaign advertised across the U.S. against Democratic candidates, including Bush's emerging opponent, Massachusetts Senator John Kerry. Kerry and other Democrats attacked Bush on the Iraq War, and accused him of failing to stimulate the economy and job growth. The Bush campaign portrayed Kerry as a staunch liberal who would raise taxes and increase the size of government. The Bush campaign continuously criticized Kerry's seemingly contradictory statements on the war in Iraq, and argued that Kerry lacked the decisiveness and vision necessary for success in the War on Terror.\n\nIn the election, Bush carried 31 of 50 states, receiving a total of 286 electoral votes. He won an absolute majority of the popular vote (50.7 percent to his opponent's 48.3 percent). Bush's father George H.W. Bush was the previous president who won an absolute majority of the popular vote; he accomplished that feat in the 1988 election. Additionally, it was the first time since Herbert Hoover's election in 1928 that a Republican president was elected alongside re-elected Republican majorities in both Houses of Congress.\n\nBush had originally outlined an ambitious domestic agenda, but his priorities were significantly altered following the September 11 attacks. Wars were waged in Afghanistan and Iraq, and there were significant domestic debates regarding immigration, healthcare, Social Security, economic policy, and treatment of terrorist detainees. Over an eight-year period, Bush's once-high approval ratings steadily declined, while his disapproval numbers increased significantly. In 2007, the United States entered the longest post-World War II recession.\n\nBush took office during a period of economic recession in the wake of the bursting of the dot-com bubble. The terrorist attacks also impacted the economy. His administration increased federal government spending from $1.789 trillion to $2.983 trillion (60 percent) while revenues increased from $2.025 trillion to $2.524 trillion (from 2000 to 2008). Individual income tax revenues increased by 14 percent, corporate tax revenues by 50 percent, customs and duties by 40 percent. Discretionary defense spending was increased by 107 percent, discretionary domestic spending by 62 percent, Medicare spending by 131 percent, social security by 51 percent, and income security spending by 130 percent. Cyclically adjusted, revenues rose by 35 percent and spending by 65 percent.\nThe increase in spending was more than under any predecessor since Lyndon B. Johnson. The number of economic regulation governmental workers increased by 91,196.\n\nThe surplus in fiscal year 2000 was $237 billion—the third consecutive surplus and the largest surplus ever. In 2001, Bush's budget estimated that there would be a $5.6 trillion surplus over the next ten years. Facing congressional opposition, Bush held townhall style meetings across the U.S. in order to increase public support for his plan for a $1.35 trillion tax cut program—one of the largest tax cuts in U.S. history. Bush argued that unspent government funds should be returned to taxpayers, saying \"the surplus is not the government's money. The surplus is the people's money.\" Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan warned of a recession and Bush stated that a tax cut would stimulate the economy and create jobs. Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, opposed some of the tax cuts on the basis that they would contribute to budget deficits and undermine Social Security. O'Neill disputes the claim, made in Bush's book \"Decision Points\", that he never openly disagreed with him on planned tax cuts. By 2003, the economy showed signs of improvement, though job growth remained stagnant. Another tax cut program was passed that year.\n\nDuring the 2001 to 2008 years, GDP grew at an average annual rate of 2.125 percent, less than for past business cycles.\n\nBush entered office with the Dow Jones Industrial Average at 10,587, and the average peaked in October 2007 at over 14,000. When Bush left office, the average was at 7,949, one of the lowest levels of his presidency. Only four other US presidents have left office with the stock market lower than when they began.\n\nUnemployment originally rose from 4.2 percent in January 2001 to 6.3 percent in June 2003, but subsequently dropped to 4.5 percent . Adjusted for inflation, median household income dropped by $1,175 between 2000 and 2007, while Professor Ken Homa of Georgetown University has noted that \"Median real after-tax household income went up 2 percent\". The poverty rate increased from 11.3 percent in 2000 to 12.3 percent in 2006 after peaking at 12.7 percent in 2004. By October 2008, due to increases in spending, the national debt had risen to $11.3 trillion, an increase of over 100 percent from 2000 when the debt was only $5.6 trillion. Most debt was accumulated as a result of what became known as the \"Bush tax cuts\" and increased national security spending. In March 2006, then-Senator Barack Obama said when he voted against raising the debt ceiling: \"The fact that we are here today to debate raising America's debt limit is a sign of leadership failure.\" By the end of Bush's presidency, unemployment climbed to 7.2 percent.\n\nIn December 2007, the United States entered the longest post–World War II recession, which included a housing market correction, a subprime mortgage crisis, soaring oil prices, and a declining dollar value. In February, 63,000 jobs were lost, a five-year record. To aid with the situation, Bush signed a $170 billion economic stimulus package which was intended to improve the economic situation by sending tax rebate checks to many Americans and providing tax breaks for struggling businesses. The Bush administration pushed for significantly increased regulation of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in 2003, and after two years, the regulations passed the House but died in the Senate. Many Republican senators, as well as influential members of the Bush Administration, feared that the agency created by these regulations would merely be mimicking the private sector's risky practices. In September 2008, the crisis became much more serious beginning with the government takeover of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac followed by the collapse of Lehman Brothers and a federal bailout of American International Group for $85 billion.\n\nMany economists and world governments determined that the situation had become the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. Additional regulation over the housing market would have been beneficial, according to former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan. Bush, meanwhile, proposed a financial rescue plan to buy back a large portion of the U.S. mortgage market. Vince Reinhardt, a former Federal Reserve economist now at the American Enterprise Institute, said \"it would have helped for the Bush administration to empower the folks at Treasury and the Federal Reserve and the comptroller of the currency and the FDIC to look at these issues more closely\", and additionally, that it would have helped \"for Congress to have held hearings\".\n\nIn November 2008, over 500,000 jobs were lost, which marked the largest loss of jobs in the United States in 34 years. The Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that in the last four months of 2008, 1.9 million jobs were lost. By the end of 2008, the U.S. had lost a total of 2.6 million jobs.\n\nBush undertook a number of educational agendas, such as increasing the funding for the National Science Foundation and National Institutes of Health in his first years of office, and creating education programs to strengthen the grounding in science and mathematics for American high school students. Funding for the NIH was cut in 2006, the first such cut in 36 years, due to rising inflation.\nOne of the administration's early major initiatives was the No Child Left Behind Act, which aimed to measure and close the gap between rich and poor student performance, provide options to parents with students in low-performing schools, and target more federal funding to low-income schools. This landmark education initiative passed with broad bipartisan support, including that of Senator Ted Kennedy of Massachusetts. It was signed into law by Bush in early 2002. Many contend that the initiative has been successful, as cited by the fact that students in the U.S. have performed significantly better on state reading and math tests since Bush signed \"No Child Left Behind\" into law. Critics argue that it is underfunded and that NCLBA's focus on \"high-stakes testing\" and quantitative outcomes is counterproductive.\n\nAfter being re-elected, Bush signed into law a Medicare drug benefit program that, according to Jan Crawford, resulted in \"the greatest expansion in America's welfare state in forty years;\" the bill's costs approached $7 trillion. In 2007, Bush opposed and vetoed State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) legislation, which was added by the Democrats onto a war funding bill and passed by Congress. The SCHIP legislation would have significantly expanded federally funded health care benefits and plans to children of some low-income families from about six million to ten million children. It was to be funded by an increase in the cigarette tax. Bush viewed the legislation as a move toward socialized health care, and asserted that the program could benefit families making as much as $83,000 per year who did not need the help.\n\nFollowing Republican efforts to pass the Medicare Act of 2003, Bush signed the bill, which included major changes to the Medicare program by providing beneficiaries with some assistance in paying for prescription drugs, while relying on private insurance for the delivery of benefits. The retired persons lobby group AARP worked with the Bush Administration on the program and gave their endorsement. Bush said the law, estimated to cost $400 billion over the first ten years, would give the elderly \"better choices and more control over their health care\".\nBush began his second term by outlining a major initiative to \"reform\" Social Security, which was facing record deficit projections beginning in 2005. Bush made it the centerpiece of his domestic agenda despite opposition from some in the U.S. Congress. In his 2005 State of the Union Address, Bush discussed the potential impending bankruptcy of the program and outlined his new program, which included partial privatization of the system, personal Social Security accounts, and options to permit Americans to divert a portion of their Social Security tax (FICA) into secured investments. Democrats opposed the proposal to partially privatize the system.\n\nBush embarked on a 60-day national tour, campaigning for his initiative in media events known as \"Conversations on Social Security\", in an attempt to gain public support. Nevertheless, public support for the proposal declined and the House Republican leadership decided not to put Social Security reform on the priority list for the remainder of their 2005 legislative agenda. The proposal's legislative prospects were further diminished by the fall of 2005 political fallout from Hurricane Katrina. After the Democrats gained control of both houses of Congress as a result of the 2006 midterm elections, there was no prospect of further congressional action on the Bush proposal for the remainder of his term in office.\n\nUpon taking office in 2001, Bush stated his opposition to the Kyoto Protocol, an amendment to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change which seeks to impose mandatory targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions, citing that the treaty exempted 80 percent of the world's population and would have cost tens of billions of dollars per year. He also cited that the Senate had voted 95–0 in 1997 on a resolution expressing its disapproval of the protocol.\n\nIn May 2001, Bush signed an executive order to create an interagency task force to streamline energy projects, and later signed two other executive orders to tackle environmental issues.\n\nIn 2002, Bush announced the Clear Skies Act of 2003, which aimed at amending the Clean Air Act to reduce air pollution through the use of emissions trading programs. Many experts argued that this legislation would have weakened the original legislation by allowing higher emission rates of pollutants than were previously legal. The initiative was introduced to Congress, but failed to make it out of committee.\n\nLater in 2006, Bush declared the Northwestern Hawaiian Islands a national monument, creating the largest marine reserve to date. The Papahānaumokuākea Marine National Monument comprises 84 million acres (340,000 km) and is home to 7,000 species of fish, birds, and other marine animals, many of which are specific to only those islands. The move was hailed by conservationists for \"its foresight and leadership in protecting this incredible area\".\n\nBush has said that he believes that global warming is real and has noted that it is a serious problem, but he asserted there is a \"debate over whether it's man-made or naturally caused\". The Bush Administration's stance on global warming remained controversial in the scientific and environmental communities. Critics have alleged that the administration misinformed the public and did not do enough to reduce carbon emissions and deter global warming.\n\nIn his 2006 State of the Union Address, Bush declared, \"America is addicted to oil\" and announced his Advanced Energy Initiative to increase energy development research.\nIn his 2007 State of the Union Address, Bush renewed his pledge to work toward diminished reliance on foreign oil by reducing fossil fuel consumption and increasing alternative fuel production. Amid high gasoline prices in 2008, Bush lifted a ban on offshore drilling. However, the move was largely symbolic because there was still a federal law banning offshore drilling. Bush said, \"This means that the only thing standing between the American people and these vast oil reserves is action from the U.S. Congress.\" Bush had said in June 2008, \"In the long run, the solution is to reduce demand for oil by promoting alternative energy technologies. My administration has worked with Congress to invest in gas-saving technologies like advanced batteries and hydrogen fuel cells... In the short run, the American economy will continue to rely largely on oil. And that means we need to increase supply, especially here at home. So my administration has repeatedly called on Congress to expand domestic oil production.\"\n\nIn his 2008 State of the Union Address, Bush announced that the U.S. would commit $2 billion over the next three years to a new international fund to promote clean energy technologies and fight climate change, saying, \"Along with contributions from other countries, this fund will increase and accelerate the deployment of all forms of cleaner, more efficient technologies in developing nations like India and China, and help leverage substantial private-sector capital by making clean energy projects more financially attractive.\" He also announced plans to reaffirm the United States' commitment to work with major economies, and, through the UN, to complete an international agreement that will slow, stop, and eventually reverse the growth of greenhouse gases; he stated, \"This agreement will be effective only if it includes commitments by every major economy and gives none a free ride.\"\n\nFederal funding for medical research involving the creation or destruction of human embryos through the Department of Health and Human Services and the National Institutes of Health has been forbidden by law since the passage in 1995 of the Dickey-Wicker Amendment by Congress and the signature of President Bill Clinton. Bush has said that he supports adult stem cell research and has supported federal legislation that finances adult stem cell research. However, Bush did not support embryonic stem cell research. On August 9, 2001, Bush signed an executive order lifting the ban on federal funding for the 71 existing \"lines\" of stem cells, but the ability of these existing lines to provide an adequate medium for testing has been questioned. Testing can be done on only 12 of the original lines, and all approved lines have been cultured in contact with mouse cells, which creates safety issues that complicate development and approval of therapies from these lines. On July 19, 2006, Bush used his veto power for the first time in his presidency to veto the Stem Cell Research Enhancement Act. The bill would have repealed the Dickey-Wicker Amendment, thereby permitting federal money to be used for research where stem cells are derived from the destruction of an embryo.\n\nOn May 21, 2008, Bush signed into law the Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act (GINA). The bill aimed to protect Americans against health insurance and employment discrimination based on a person's genetic information. The issue had been debated for 13 years before it finally became law. The measure is designed to protect citizens without hindering genetic research.\n\nNearly 8 million immigrants came to the United States from 2000 to 2005, more than in any other five-year period in the nation's history. Almost half entered illegally. In 2006, Bush urged Congress to allow more than 12 million illegal immigrants to work in the United States with the creation of a \"temporary guest-worker program\". Bush also urged Congress to provide additional funds for border security and committed to deploying 6,000 National Guard troops to the Mexico–United States border. From May to June 2007, Bush strongly supported the Comprehensive Immigration Reform Act of 2007, which was written by a bipartisan group of Senators with the active participation of the Bush administration. The bill envisioned a legalization program for illegal immigrants, with an eventual path to citizenship; establishing a guest worker program; a series of border and work site enforcement measures; a reform of the green card application process and the introduction of a point-based \"merit\" system for green cards; elimination of \"chain migration\" and of the Diversity Immigrant Visa; and other measures. Bush argued that the lack of legal status denies the protections of U.S. laws to millions of people who face dangers of poverty and exploitation, and penalizes employers despite a demand for immigrant labor. Bush contended that the proposed bill did not amount to amnesty.\n\nA heated public debate followed, which resulted in a substantial rift within the Republican Party, most conservatives opposed it because of its legalization or amnesty provisions. The bill was eventually defeated in the Senate on June 28, 2007, when a cloture motion failed on a 46–53 vote. Bush expressed disappointment upon the defeat of one of his signature domestic initiatives. The Bush administration later proposed a series of immigration enforcement measures that do not require a change in law.\n\nOn September 19, 2010, former Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said that Bush offered to accept 100,000 Palestinian refugees as American citizens if a permanent settlement had been reached between Israel and the Palestinian Authority.\n\nHurricane Katrina struck early in Bush's second term and was one of the most damaging natural disasters in U.S. history. Katrina formed in late August during the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season and devastated much of the north-central Gulf Coast of the United States, particularly New Orleans.\n\nBush declared a state of emergency in Louisiana on August 27 and in Mississippi and Alabama the following day. He authorized the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to manage the disaster, but his announcement failed to spur these agencies to action. The eye of the hurricane made landfall on August 29, and New Orleans began to flood due to levee breaches; later that day, Bush declared that a major disaster existed in Louisiana, officially authorizing FEMA to start using federal funds to assist in the recovery effort.\nOn August 30, DHS Secretary Michael Chertoff declared it \"an incident of national significance\", triggering the first use of the newly created National Response Plan. Three days later, on September 2, National Guard troops first entered the city of New Orleans. The same day, Bush toured parts of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama and declared that the success of the recovery effort up to that point was \"not enough\".\n\nAs the disaster in New Orleans intensified, critics charged that Bush was misrepresenting his administration's role in what they saw as a flawed response. Leaders attacked Bush for having appointed apparently incompetent leaders to positions of power at FEMA, notably Michael D. Brown; it was also argued that the federal response was limited as a result of the Iraq War and Bush himself did not act upon warnings of floods. Bush responded to mounting criticism by accepting full responsibility for the federal government's failures in its handling of the emergency. It has been argued that with Katrina, Bush passed a political tipping point from which he would not recover.\n\nDuring Bush's second term, a controversy arose over the Justice Department's midterm dismissal of seven United States Attorneys. The White House maintained that the U.S. attorneys were fired for poor performance. Attorney General Alberto Gonzales later resigned over the issue, along with other senior members of the Justice Department. The House Judiciary Committee issued subpoenas for advisers Harriet Miers and Josh Bolten to testify regarding this matter, but Bush directed Miers and Bolten to not comply with those subpoenas, invoking his right of executive privilege. Bush maintained that all of his advisers were protected under a broad executive privilege protection to receive candid advice. The Justice Department determined that the President's order was legal.\n\nAlthough Congressional investigations focused on whether the Justice Department and the White House were using the U.S. Attorney positions for political advantage, no official findings have been released. On March 10, 2008, the Congress filed a federal lawsuit to enforce their issued subpoenas. On July 31, 2008, a United States district court judge ruled that Bush's top advisers were not immune from Congressional subpoenas.\n\nIn all, twelve Justice Department officials resigned rather than testify under oath before Congress. They included Attorney General Alberto Gonzales and his chief of staff Kyle Sampson, Gonzales' liaison to the White House Monica Goodling, aide to the president Karl Rove and his senior aide Sara Taylor. In addition, legal counsel to the president Harriet Miers and deputy chief of staff to the president Joshua Bolten were both found in contempt of Congress.\n\nIn 2010, the Justice Department investigator concluded that though political considerations did play a part in as many as four of the attorney firings, the firings were \"inappropriately political\", but not criminal. According to the prosecutors, there was insufficient evidence to pursue prosecution for any criminal offense.\n\nFollowing the resignation of CIA director George Tenet in 2004, Bush nominated Porter Goss to head the agency. The White House ordered Goss to purge agency officers who were disloyal to the administration. After Goss' appointment, many of the CIA's senior agents were fired or quit. The CIA has been accused of deliberately leaking classified information to undermine the 2004 election.\n\nIn July 2001, Bush visited Pope John Paul II at Castel Gandolfo.\nDuring his presidential campaign, Bush's foreign policy platform included support for stronger economic and political relationship with Latin America, especially Mexico, and a reduction of involvement in \"nation-building\" and other small-scale military engagements. The administration pursued a national missile defense. Bush was an advocate of China's entry into the World Trade Organization.\n\nIn his 2002 State of the Union Address, Bush referred to an axis of evil including Iraq, Iran and North Korea. After the September 11 attacks on New York, Bush launched the War on Terror, in which the United States military and a small international coalition invaded Afghanistan. In 2003, Bush then launched the invasion of Iraq, searching for Weapons of Mass Destruction, which he described as being part of the War on Terrorism. Those invasions led to the toppling of the Taliban regime in Afghanistan and the removal of Saddam Hussein from power in Iraq.\nBush began his second term with an emphasis on improving strained relations with European nations. He appointed long-time adviser Karen Hughes to oversee a global public relations campaign. Bush lauded the pro-democracy struggles in Georgia and Ukraine.\n\nIn March 2006, Bush reversed decades of U.S. policy when he visited India; the trip led to renewed ties between the two countries. The visit focused particularly on areas of nuclear energy, counter-terrorism cooperation, and discussions that would eventually lead to the India–United States Civil Nuclear Agreement.\n\nBush's visit was in stark contrast to the stance taken by his predecessor, Bill Clinton, whose approach and response to India after the 1998 nuclear tests was that of sanctions and hectoring. The relationship between India and the United States was one that dramatically improved during Bush's tenure.\n\nMidway through Bush's second term, questions arose whether Bush was retreating from his freedom and democracy agenda, which was highlighted in policy changes toward some oil-rich former Soviet republics in central Asia.\n\nIn an address before both Houses of Congress on September 20, 2001, Bush thanked the nations of the world for their support following the September 11 attacks. He specifically thanked UK Prime Minister Tony Blair for traveling to Washington to show \"unity of purpose with America\", and said \"America has no truer friend than Great Britain.\"\n\nThe September 11 terrorist attacks were a major turning point in Bush's presidency. That evening, he addressed the nation from the Oval Office, promising a strong response to the attacks. He also emphasized the need for the nation to come together and comfort the families of the victims. Three days after the attacks, Bush visited Ground Zero and met with Mayor Rudy Giuliani, firefighters, police officers, and volunteers. To much applause, Bush addressed the gathering via a megaphone while standing in a heap of rubble: \"I can hear you. The rest of the world hears you. And the people who knocked these buildings down will hear all of us soon.\"\nIn a September 20 speech, Bush condemned Osama bin Laden and his organization Al-Qaeda, and issued an ultimatum to the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, where bin Laden was operating, to \"hand over the terrorists, or ... share in their fate\".\n\nAfter September 11, Bush announced a global War on Terror. The Afghan Taliban regime was not forthcoming with Osama bin Laden, so Bush ordered the invasion of Afghanistan to overthrow the Taliban regime. In his January 29, 2002 State of the Union Address, he asserted that an \"axis of evil\" consisting of North Korea, Iran, and Iraq was \"arming to threaten the peace of the world\" and \"pose[d] a grave and growing danger\". The Bush Administration asserted both a right and the intention to wage preemptive war, or preventive war. This became the basis for the Bush Doctrine which weakened the unprecedented levels of international and domestic support for the United States which had followed the September 11 attacks.\n\nDissent and criticism of Bush's leadership in the War on Terror increased as the war in Iraq continued. In 2006, a National Intelligence Estimate concluded that the Iraq War had become the \"cause célèbre for jihadists\".\n\nOn October 7, 2001, U.S. and British forces initiated bombing campaigns that led to the arrival of Northern Alliance troops in Kabul on November 13. The main goals of the war were to defeat the Taliban, drive al-Qaeda out of Afghanistan, and capture key al-Qaeda leaders. In December 2001, the Pentagon reported that the Taliban had been defeated, but cautioned that the war would go on to continue weakening Taliban and al-Qaeda leaders. Later that month the UN had installed the Afghan Transitional Administration chaired by Hamid Karzai. In 2002, based on UNICEF figures, Nicholas Kristof reported that \"our invasion of Afghanistan may end up saving one million lives over the next decade\" as the result of improved healthcare and greater access to humanitarian aid.\n\nEfforts to kill or capture al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden failed as he escaped a battle in December 2001 in the mountainous region of Tora Bora, which the Bush Administration later acknowledged to have resulted from a failure to commit enough U.S. ground troops. It was not until May 2011, two years after Bush left office, that bin Laden was killed by U.S. forces under the Obama administration. Bin Laden's successor, Ayman al-Zawahiri, remains at large.\n\nDespite the initial success in driving the Taliban from power in Kabul, by early 2003 the Taliban was regrouping, amassing new funds and recruits. The 2005 failure of Operation Red Wings showed that the Taliban had returned. In 2006, the Taliban insurgency appeared larger, fiercer and better organized than expected, with large-scale allied offensives such as Operation Mountain Thrust attaining limited success. As a result, Bush commissioned 3,500 additional troops to the country in March 2007.\n\nBeginning with his January 29, 2002 State of the Union address, Bush began publicly focusing attention on Iraq, which he labeled as part of an \"axis of evil\" allied with terrorists and posing \"a grave and growing danger\" to U.S. interests through possession of weapons of mass destruction.\n\nIn the latter half of 2002, CIA reports contained assertions of Saddam Hussein's intent of reconstituting nuclear weapons programs, not properly accounting for Iraqi biological and chemical weapons, and that some Iraqi missiles had a range greater than allowed by the UN sanctions. Contentions that the Bush Administration manipulated or exaggerated the threat and evidence of Iraq's weapons of mass destruction capabilities would eventually become a major point of criticism for the president.\n\nIn late 2002 and early 2003, Bush urged the United Nations to enforce Iraqi disarmament mandates, precipitating a diplomatic crisis. In November 2002, Hans Blix and Mohamed ElBaradei led UN weapons inspectors in Iraq, but were advised by the U.S. to depart the country four days prior to the U.S. invasion, despite their requests for more time to complete their tasks. The U.S. initially sought a UN Security Council resolution authorizing the use of military force but dropped the bid for UN approval due to vigorous opposition from several countries.\nMore than 20 nations (most notably the United Kingdom), designated the \"coalition of the willing\" joined the United States in invading Iraq. They launched the invasion on March 20, 2003. The Iraqi military was quickly defeated. The capital, Baghdad, fell on April 9, 2003. On May 1, Bush declared the end of major combat operations in Iraq. The initial success of U.S. operations increased his popularity, but the U.S. and allied forces faced a growing insurgency led by sectarian groups; Bush's \"Mission Accomplished\" speech was later criticized as premature. From 2004 until 2007, the situation in Iraq deteriorated further, with some observers arguing that there was a full-scale civil war in Iraq. Bush's policies met with criticism, including demands domestically to set a timetable to withdraw troops from Iraq. The 2006 report of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, led by James Baker, concluded that the situation in Iraq was \"grave and deteriorating\". While Bush admitted that there were strategic mistakes made in regards to the stability of Iraq, he maintained he would not change the overall Iraq strategy. According to Iraq Body Count, some 251,000 Iraqis have been killed in the civil war following the U.S.-led invasion, including at least 163,841 civilians.\nIn January 2005, free, democratic elections were held in Iraq for the first time in 50 years. According to Iraqi National Security Advisor Mowaffak al-Rubaie, \"This is the greatest day in the history of this country.\" Bush praised the event as well, saying that the Iraqis \"have taken rightful control of their country's destiny\". This led to the election of Jalal Talabani as president and Nouri al-Maliki as Prime Minister of Iraq. A referendum to approve a constitution in Iraq was held in October 2005, supported by most Shiites and many Kurds.\n\nOn January 10, 2007, Bush announced a surge of 21,500 more troops for Iraq, as well as a job program for Iraqis, more reconstruction proposals, and $1.2 billion (equivalent to $ billion in ) for these programs. On May 1, 2007, Bush used his second-ever veto to reject a bill setting a deadline for the withdrawal of U.S. troops, saying the debate over the conflict was \"understandable\" but insisting that a continued U.S. presence there was crucial.\n\nIn March 2008, Bush praised the Iraqi government's \"bold decision\" to launch the Battle of Basra against the Mahdi Army, calling it \"a defining moment in the history of a free Iraq\". He said he would carefully weigh recommendations from his commanding General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker about how to proceed after the end of the military buildup in the summer of 2008. He also praised the Iraqis' legislative achievements, including a pension law, a revised de-Baathification law, a new budget, an amnesty law, and a provincial powers measure that, he said, set the stage for the Iraqi elections. By July 2008, American troop deaths had reached their lowest number since the war began, and due to increased stability in Iraq, Bush announced the withdrawal of additional American forces.\n\nFollowing the terrorist attacks of September 11, Bush issued an executive order that authorized the President's Surveillance Program. The new directive allowed the National Security Agency to monitor communications between suspected terrorists outside the U.S. and parties within the U.S. without obtaining a warrant, which previously had been required by the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act. , the other provisions of the program remained highly classified. Once the Department of Justice Office of Legal Counsel questioned its original legal opinion that FISA did not apply in a time of war, the program was subsequently re-authorized by the President on the basis that the warrant requirements of FISA were implicitly superseded by the subsequent passage of the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Terrorists. The program proved to be controversial; critics of the administration and organizations such as the American Bar Association argued that it was illegal. In August 2006, a U.S. district court judge ruled that the NSA electronic surveillance program was unconstitutional, but on July 6, 2007, that ruling was vacated by the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit on the grounds that the plaintiffs lacked standing. On January 17, 2007, Attorney General Alberto Gonzales informed U.S. Senate leaders that the program would not be reauthorized by the President, but would be subjected to judicial oversight. Later in 2007, the NSA launched a replacement for the program, referred to as PRISM, that was subject to the oversight of the United States Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court. This program was not publicly revealed until reports by \"The Washington Post\" and \"The Guardian\" emerged in June 2013.\n\nBush authorized the CIA to use waterboarding and several other \"enhanced interrogation techniques\" that several critics, including Barack Obama, would label as torture. Between 2002 and 2003, the CIA considered certain enhanced interrogation techniques, such as waterboarding, to be legal based on secret Justice Department legal opinions arguing that terror detainees were not protected by the Geneva Conventions' ban on torture, which was described as \"an unconstitutional infringement of the President's authority to conduct war\". The CIA had exercised the technique on certain key terrorist suspects under authority given to it in the Bybee Memo from the Attorney General, though that memo was later withdrawn. While not permitted by the U.S. Army Field Manuals which assert \"that harsh interrogation tactics elicit unreliable information\", the Bush administration believed these enhanced interrogations \"provided critical information\" to preserve American lives. Critics, such as former CIA officer Bob Baer, have stated that information was suspect, \"you can get anyone to confess to anything if the torture's bad enough.\"\n\nOn October 17, 2006, Bush signed the Military Commissions Act of 2006 into law. The new rule was enacted in the wake of the Supreme Court's decision in \"Hamdan v. Rumsfeld\", , which allowed the U.S. government to prosecute unlawful enemy combatants by military commission rather than a standard trial. The law also denied the detainees access to \"habeas corpus\" and barred the torture of prisoners. The provision of the law allowed the president to determine what constitutes \"torture\".\n\nOn March 8, 2008, Bush vetoed H.R. 2082, a bill that would have expanded congressional oversight over the intelligence community and banned the use of waterboarding as well as other forms of interrogation not permitted under the United States Army Field Manual on Human Intelligence Collector Operations, saying that \"the bill Congress sent me would take away one of the most valuable tools in the War on Terror\". In April 2009, the ACLU sued and won release of the secret memos that had authorized the Bush administration's interrogation tactics. One memo detailed specific interrogation tactics including a footnote that described waterboarding as torture as well as that the form of waterboarding used by the CIA was far more intense than authorized by the Justice Department.\n\nBush publicly condemned Kim Jong-il of North Korea and identified North Korea as one of three states in an \"axis of evil\". He said that \"the United States of America will not permit the world's most dangerous regimes to threaten us with the world's most destructive weapons.\" Within months, \"both countries had walked away from their respective commitments under the U.S.–DPRK Agreed Framework of October 1994.\" North Korea's October 9, 2006, detonation of a nuclear device further complicated Bush's foreign policy, which centered for both terms of his presidency on \"[preventing] the terrorists and regimes who seek chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons from threatening the United States and the world\". Bush condemned North Korea's position, reaffirmed his commitment to \"a nuclear-free Korean Peninsula\", and stated that \"transfer of nuclear weapons or material by North Korea to states or non-state entities would be considered a grave threat to the United States\", for which North Korea would be held accountable. On May 7, 2007, North Korea agreed to shut down its nuclear reactors immediately pending the release of frozen funds held in a foreign bank account. This was a result of a series of three-way talks initiated by the United States and including China. On September 2, 2007, North Korea agreed to disclose and dismantle all of its nuclear programs by the end of 2007. By May 2009, North Korea had restarted its nuclear program and threatened to attack South Korea.\n\nOn June 22, 2010, \"While South Korea prospers, the people of North Korea have suffered profoundly,\" he said, adding that, \"communism had resulted in dire poverty, mass starvation and brutal suppression.\n\"In recent years,\" he went on to say, \"the suffering has been compounded by the leader who wasted North Korea's precious few resources on personal luxuries and nuclear weapons programs.\"\n\nBush expanded economic sanctions on Syria. in 2003, Bush signed the Syria Accountability Act, which expanded sanctions on Syria. In early 2007, the Treasury Department, acting on a June 2005 executive order, froze American bank accounts of Syria's Higher Institute of Applied Science and Technology, Electronics Institute, and National Standards and Calibration Laboratory. Bush's order prohibits Americans from doing business with these institutions suspected of helping spread weapons of mass destruction and being supportive of terrorism. Under separate executive orders signed by Bush in 2004 and later 2007, the Treasury Department froze the assets of two Lebanese and two Syrians, accusing them of activities to \"undermine the legitimate political process in Lebanon\" in November 2007. Those designated included: Assaad Halim Hardan, a member of Lebanon's parliament and current leader of the Syrian Socialist National Party; Wi'am Wahhab, a former member of Lebanon's government (Minister of the Environment) under Prime Minister Omar Karami (2004–2005); Hafiz Makhluf, a colonel and senior official in the Syrian General Intelligence Directorate and a cousin of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad; and Muhammad Nasif Khayrbik, identified as a close adviser to Assad.\n\nBush initiated the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief Program (PEPFAR). The U.S. government had spent some $44 billion on the project since 2003 (a figure that includes $7 billion contributed to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, a multilateral organization), which saved an estimated 5 million lives. According to \"The New York Times\" correspondent Peter Baker, \"Bush did more to stop AIDS and more to help Africa than any president before or since.\"\n\nOn May 10, 2005, Vladimir Arutyunian, a native Georgian who was born to a family of ethnic Armenians, threw a live hand grenade toward a podium where Bush was speaking at Freedom Square in Tbilisi, Georgia. Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili was seated nearby. It landed in the crowd about from the podium after hitting a girl, but it did not detonate. Arutyunian was arrested in July 2005, confessed, was convicted and was given a life sentence in January 2006.\n\nBush withdrew U.S. support for several international agreements, including the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty (ABM) with Russia. He also signed the Strategic Offensive Reductions Treaty with Russia.\n\nBush emphasized a careful approach to the conflict between Israel and the Palestinians; he denounced Palestine Liberation Organization leader Yasser Arafat for his support of violence, but sponsored dialogues between Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and Palestinian National Authority President Mahmoud Abbas. Bush supported Sharon's unilateral disengagement plan, and lauded the democratic elections held in Palestine after Arafat's death.\nBush also expressed U.S. support for the defense of Taiwan following the stand-off in April 2001 with the People's Republic of China over the Hainan Island incident, when an EP-3E Aries II surveillance aircraft collided with a People's Liberation Army Air Force jet, leading to the detention of U.S. personnel. From 2003 to 2004, Bush authorized U.S. military intervention in Haiti and Liberia to protect U.S. interests. Bush condemned the militia attacks Darfur and denounced the killings in Sudan as genocide. Bush said that an international peacekeeping presence was critical in Darfur, but opposed referring the situation to the International Criminal Court.\n\nIn the State of the Union address in January 2003, Bush outlined a five-year strategy for global emergency AIDS relief, the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief. Bush announced $15 billion for this effort which directly supported life-saving antiretroviral treatment for more than 3.2 million men, women and children worldwide.\n\nOn June 10, 2007, Bush met with Albanian Prime Minister Sali Berisha and became the first president to visit Albania. Bush has voiced his support for the independence of Kosovo. Bush opposed South Ossetia's independence. On August 15, 2008, Bush said of Russia's invasion of the country of Georgia: \"Bullying and intimidation are not acceptable ways to conduct foreign policy in the 21st century.\"\nBush opened the 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah. Departing from previous practice, he stood among a group of U.S. athletes rather than from a ceremonial stand or box, saying: \"On behalf of a proud, determined, and grateful nation, I declare open the Games of Salt Lake City, celebrating the Olympic Winter Games.\" In 2008, in the course of a good-will trip to Asia, he attended the Summer Olympics in Beijing.\n\nBush twice invoked , which allows a president to temporarily transfer the powers and duties of his office to the vice president, who then becomes acting president. On June 29, 2002, Bush underwent a colonoscopy and chose to invoke Section 3 of the amendment, making Vice President Dick Cheney the acting president. The medical procedure began at 7:09 am. EDT and ended at 7:29 am. EDT. Bush woke up twenty minutes later, but did not resume his presidential powers and duties until 9:24 am. EDT after the president's doctor, Richard Tubb, conducted an overall examination. Tubb said he recommended the additional time to make sure the sedative had no after effects. On July 21, 2007, Bush again invoked Section 3 in response to having to undergo a colonoscopy, again making Vice President Cheney the acting president. Bush invoked Section 3 at 7:16 am. EDT. He reclaimed his powers at 9:21 am. EDT. In both cases, Bush specifically cited Section 3 when he transferred the presidential powers to the Vice President and when he reclaimed those powers.\n\nFollowing the announcement of Supreme Court Justice Sandra Day O'Connor's retirement on July 1, 2005, Bush nominated John Roberts to succeed her. On September 5, following the death of Chief Justice William Rehnquist, this nomination was withdrawn and Bush instead nominated Roberts for Chief Justice to succeed Rehnquist. Roberts was confirmed by the Senate as the 17th Chief Justice on September 29, 2005.\n\nOn October 3, 2005, Bush nominated long time White House Counsel Harriet Miers for O'Connor's position. After facing significant opposition from both parties, who found her to be ill-prepared and uninformed on the law, Miers asked that her name be withdrawn on October 27. Four days later, on October 31, Bush nominated federal appellate judge Samuel Alito. Alito was confirmed as the 110th Supreme Court Justice on January 31, 2006.\n\nIn addition to his two Supreme Court appointments, Bush appointed 61 judges to the United States courts of appeals and 261 judges to the United States district courts. Each of these numbers, along with his total of 324 judicial appointments, is third in American history, behind both Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton. Bush experienced a number of judicial appointment controversies. Debate during one confirmation session lasted \"39 stupefying hours\" according to \"The New York Times\". On August 3, 2001, the Senate did not consent to keep existing nominations in \"status quo\", returning 40 judicial nominations, and 164 total nominations.\n\nAt the outset, Judicature magazine noted that the \"Senate Democrats were gearing up for the approaching confirmation hearings\" before the first set of nominees were sent to the Senate. It then cites \"The New York Times\" as saying \"Senate Democrats have pledged they will not automatically vote to confirm Mr. Bush's judicial nominees and will subject them to intense scrutiny.\"\n\nThe Senate confirmed only 8 out of 60 judicial nominations by October 2001. In February 2003, the Democrats successfully filibustered the nomination of Miguel Estrada.\n\nBush's upbringing in West Texas, his accent, his vacations on his Texas ranch, and his penchant for country metaphors contribute to his folksy, American cowboy image. \"I think people look at him and think John Wayne\", said Piers Morgan, editor of the British \"Daily Mirror\".\n\nBush has been parodied by the media, comedians, and other politicians. Detractors tended to cite linguistic errors made by Bush during his public speeches, which are colloquially referred to as Bushisms.\n\nIn contrast to his father—who was perceived as having troubles with an overarching unifying theme—Bush embraced larger visions and was seen as a man of larger ideas and associated huge risks.\n\nTony Blair wrote in 2010 that the caricature of Bush as being dumb is \"ludicrous\" and that Bush is \"very smart\". In an interview with \"Playboy\", \"New York Times\" columnist David Brooks said Bush \"was 60 IQ points smarter in private than he was in public. He doesn't want anybody to think he's smarter than they are, so puts on a Texas act.\"\n\nBush began his presidency with approval ratings near 50 percent. After the September 11 attacks, Bush gained an approval rating of 90 percent, maintaining 80 to 90 percent approval for four months after the attacks. It remained over 50 percent during most of his first term and then fell to as low as 19 percent in his second term.\n\nIn 2000 and again in 2004, \"Time\" magazine named George W. Bush as its Person of the Year, a title awarded to someone who the editors believe \"has done the most to influence the events of the year\". In May 2004, Gallup reported that 89 percent of the Republican electorate approved of Bush. However, the support waned due mostly to a minority of Republicans' frustration with him on issues of spending, illegal immigration, and Middle Eastern affairs.\n\nWithin the United States armed forces, according to an unscientific survey, the president was strongly supported in the 2004 presidential elections. While 73 percent of military personnel said that they would vote for Bush, 18 percent preferred his Democratic rival, John Kerry. According to Peter Feaver, a Duke University political scientist who has studied the political leanings of the U.S. military, members of the armed services supported Bush because they found him more likely than Kerry to complete the War in Iraq.\n\nBush's approval rating went below the 50 percent mark in AP-Ipsos polling in December 2004. Thereafter, his approval ratings and approval of his handling of domestic and foreign policy issues steadily dropped. Bush received heavy criticism for his handling of the Iraq War, his response to Hurricane Katrina and to the Abu Ghraib prisoner abuse, NSA warrantless surveillance, the Plame affair, and Guantanamo Bay detention camp controversies. There were calls for Bush's impeachment, though most polls showed a plurality of Americans would not support such an action. The arguments offered for impeachment usually centered on the NSA warrantless surveillance controversy, the Bush administration's justification for the war in Iraq, and alleged violations of the Geneva Conventions. Representative Dennis Kucinich (D-OH), who had run against Bush during the 2004 presidential campaign, introduced 35 articles of impeachment on the floor of the House of Representatives against Bush on June 9, 2008, but Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) declared that impeachment was \"off the table\".\n\nPolls that were conducted in 2006 showed an average of 37 percent approval ratings for Bush, the lowest for any second-term president at that point of his term since Harry S. Truman in March 1951 (when Truman's approval rating was 28 percent), which contributed to what Bush called the \"thumping\" of the Republican Party in the 2006 mid-term elections. Throughout most of 2007, Bush's approval rating hovered in the mid-thirties; the average for his entire second term was 37 percent, according to Gallup.\nBy the beginning of 2008, his final year in office, Bush's approval rating had dropped to a low of just 19 percent, largely from the loss of support among Republicans. Commenting on his low poll numbers and accusations of being \"the worst president,\" Bush would say, \"I make decisions on what I think is right for the United States based upon principles. I frankly don't give a damn about the polls.\"\n\nIn the spring of that year, Bush's disapproval ratings reached the highest ever recorded for any president in the 70-year history of the Gallup poll, with 69 percent of those polled in April 2008 disapproving of the job Bush was doing as president and 28 percent approving—although the majority (66 percent) of Republicans still approved of his job performance.\n\nIn polls conducted in the fall, just before the 2008 election, his approval ratings remained at record lows of 19 to 20 percent, while his disapproval ratings ranged from 67 percent to as high as 75 percent. In polling conducted January 9–11, 2009, his final job approval rating by Gallup was 34 percent, which placed him on par with Jimmy Carter and Harry S. Truman, the other presidents whose final Gallup ratings measured in the low 30s (Richard Nixon's final Gallup approval rating was even lower, at 24 percent). According to a CBS News/\"New York Times\" poll conducted January 11–15, 2009, Bush's final approval rating in office was 22 percent, the lowest in American history.\n\nBush was criticized internationally and targeted by the global anti-war and anti-globalization campaigns for his administration's foreign policy. Views of him within the international community—even in France, a close ally of the United States—were more negative than those of most previous American presidents in history.\n\nBush was described as having especially close personal relationships with Tony Blair of Great Britain and Vicente Fox of Mexico, although formal relations were sometimes strained. Other leaders, such as Afghan president Hamid Karzai, Ugandan president Yoweri Museveni, Spanish prime minister José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero, and Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez, openly criticized the president. Later in Bush's presidency, tensions arose between him and Vladimir Putin, which led to a cooling of their relationship.\nIn 2006, most respondents in 18 of 21 countries surveyed around the world were found to hold an unfavorable opinion of Bush. Respondents indicated that they judged his administration as negative for world security. In 2007, the Pew Global Attitudes Project reported that during the Bush presidency, attitudes towards the United States, and towards Americans, became less favorable around the world.\n\nA March 2007 survey of Arab opinion conducted by Zogby International and the University of Maryland found that Bush was the most disliked leader in the Arab world.\n\nThe Pew Research Center's 2007 Global Attitudes poll found that out of 47 countries, in only nine countries did most respondents express \"a lot of confidence\" or \"some confidence\" in Bush: Ethiopia, Ghana, India, Israel, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Mali, Nigeria, and Uganda.\n\nDuring a June 2007 visit to the predominantly Muslim Albania, Bush was greeted enthusiastically. Albania has a population of 2.8 million, has troops in both Iraq and Afghanistan, and the country's government is highly supportive of American foreign policy. A huge image of the President was hung in the middle of the capital city of Tirana flanked by Albanian and American flags while a local street was named after him. A shirt-sleeved statue of Bush was unveiled in Fushë-Krujë, a few kilometers northwest of Tirana. The Bush administration's support for the independence of Albanian-majority Kosovo, while endearing him to the Albanians, has troubled U.S. relations with Serbia, leading to the February 2008 torching of the U.S. embassy in Belgrade.\n\nOn May 7, 2005, during an official state visit to Latvia, Bush was awarded the Order of the Three Stars presented to him by President Vaira Vīķe-Freiberga. A few places outside the United States bear Bush's name. In 2005, the Tbilisi City Council voted to rename a street in honor of the U.S. president. Previously known as Melaani Drive, the street links the Georgian capital's airport with the city center and was used by Bush's motorcade during his visit four months earlier. A street in Tirana, formerly known as \"Rruga Puntorët e Rilendjes\", situated directly outside the Albanian Parliament, was renamed after Bush a few days before he made the first-ever visit by an American president to Albania in June 2007. In Jerusalem, a small plaza with a monument bearing his name is also dedicated to Bush.\n\nIn 2012, Estonian President Toomas Hendrik Ilves awarded Bush the Order of the Cross of Terra Mariana for his work in expanding NATO.\n\nThe George W. Bush presidency has been ranked among the worst in surveys of presidential scholars published in the late 2000s and 2010s.\n\nAfter his re-election in 2004, Bush received increasingly heated criticism from across the political spectrum for his handling of the Iraq War, Hurricane Katrina, and other challenges. Amid this criticism, the Democratic Party regained control of Congress in the 2006 elections. In December 2007, the United States entered its longest post-World War II recession, often referred to as the \"Great Recession\", prompting the Bush administration to obtain congressional passage of multiple economic programs intended to preserve the country's financial system. Nationally, Bush was both one of the most popular and unpopular presidents in history, having received the highest recorded presidential approval ratings in the wake of the September 11 attacks, as well as one of the lowest approval ratings during the 2008 financial crisis.\n\nBush said in 2013, \"Ultimately history will judge the decisions I made, and I won't be around because it will take time for the objective historians to show up. So I am pretty comfortable with it. I did what I did.\"\n\nFollowing the inauguration of Barack Obama, Bush and his family flew from Andrews Air Force Base to a homecoming celebration in Midland, Texas, following which they returned to their ranch in Crawford, Texas. They bought a home in the Preston Hollow neighborhood of Dallas, Texas, where they settled down.\n\nHe makes regular appearances at various events throughout the Dallas/Fort Worth area, most notably when he conducted the opening coin toss at the Dallas Cowboys first game in the team's new stadium in Arlington and an April 2009 visit to a Texas Rangers game, where he thanked the people of Dallas for helping him settle in and was met with a standing ovation. He also attended every home playoff game for the Texas Rangers 2010 season and, accompanied by his father, threw out the ceremonial first pitch at Rangers Ballpark in Arlington for Game 4 of the 2010 World Series on October 31, 2010.\n\nOn August 6, 2013, Bush was successfully treated for a coronary artery blockage with a stent. The blockage had been found during an annual medical examination.\n\nIn reaction to the 2016 shooting of Dallas police officers, Bush stated: \"Laura and I are heartbroken by the heinous acts of violence in our city last night. Murdering the innocent is always evil, never more so than when the lives taken belong to those who protect our families and communities.\"\n\nSince leaving office, Bush has kept a relatively low profile though he has made public appearances, most notably after the release of his memoirs in 2010 and for the 10th anniversary of the September 11 attacks in 2011. In March 2009, he delivered his first post-presidency speech in Calgary, Alberta, appeared via video on \"The Colbert Report\" during which he praised U.S. troops for earning a \"special place in American history,\" and attended the funeral of Senator Ted Kennedy. Bush made his debut as a motivational speaker on October 26 at the \"Get Motivated\" seminar in Dallas. In the aftermath of the Fort Hood shooting that took place on November 5, 2009, in Texas, the Bushes paid an undisclosed visit to the survivors and victims' families the day following the shooting, having contacted the base commander requesting that the visit be private and not involve press coverage.\nBush released his memoirs, \"Decision Points\", on November 9, 2010. During a pre-release appearance promoting the book, Bush said he considered his biggest accomplishment to be keeping \"the country safe amid a real danger\", and his greatest failure to be his inability to secure the passage of Social Security reform. He also made news defending his administration's enhanced interrogation techniques, specifically the waterboarding of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, saying, \"I'd do it again to save lives.\"\n\nIn 2012, he wrote the foreword of \"\", an economics book published by the George W. Bush Presidential Center. He also presented the book at the Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas, Texas.\n\nBush appeared on NBC's \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\" on November 19, 2013, along with the former First Lady, Laura Bush. When asked by Leno why he does not comment publicly about the Obama administration, Bush said, \"I don't think it's good for the country to have a former president criticize his successor.\" Despite this statement, on Saturday, April 25, 2015, Bush criticized President Barack Obama at a meeting of the Republican Jewish Coalition at the Venetian Hotel in Las Vegas. Bush criticized Obama's handling of Iran, specifically with respect to sanctions and a nuclear deal, saying: \"You think the Middle East is chaotic now? Imagine what it looks like for our grandchildren. That's how Americans should view the deal.\" Bush also attacked Obama's withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq in 2011, calling it a \"strategic blunder\", borrowing a term that had been used by South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham.\n\nAlongside the 2014 United States–Africa Leaders Summit, Bush, Michelle Obama, the State Department, and the George W. Bush Institute hosted a daylong forum on education and health with the spouses of the African leaders attending the summit. Bush urged African leaders to avoid discriminatory laws that make the treatment of HIV/AIDS more difficult.\n\nBush has spoken in favor of increased global participation of women in politics and societal matters in foreign countries.\n\nOn November 2, 2014, Bush spoke at an event to 200 business and civic leaders at the George W. Bush Presidential Library and Museum to raise awareness for the upcoming Museum of the Bible in Washington D.C.\n\nBush published a biography of his father, George Bush, called \"\". It was released on November 11, 2014.\n\nIn an interview published by \"Israel Hayom\" magazine on June 12, 2015, Bush said that \"boots on the ground\" would be needed in order to defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIS). He added that people had said during his presidency that he should withdraw American troops from Iraq, but he chose the opposite, sending 30,000 more troops in order to defeat Al Qaeda in Iraq, and that Al Qaeda in Iraq was defeated. Bush was also asked about Iran but declined to answer, stating that any answer he gives would be interpreted as undermining President Barack Obama.\n\nIn February 2016, George W. Bush spoke and campaigned for his brother Jeb Bush in South Carolina during a rally for the Jeb Bush presidential campaign in the 2016 Republican Party presidential primaries.\n\nWhile Bush endorsed the Republican Party's 2012 presidential nominee Mitt Romney, he declined to endorse the 2016 Republican nominee Donald Trump and he did not attend the 2016 Republican National Convention, which formally nominated Trump. On the eve of Trump's nomination, it was reported that Bush had privately expressed concern about the current direction of the Republican Party and told a group of his former aides and advisors, \"I'm worried that I will be the last Republican president.\" Bush and his wife Laura did not vote for Trump in the 2016 presidential election according to a spokesperson for the Bush family, instead choosing to leave their presidential ballots blank. After the election, Bush, his father, and his brother Jeb called Trump on the phone to congratulate him on his victory. Both he and Laura attended Trump's inauguration, and images of Bush struggling to put on a rain poncho during the ceremony became an internet meme. While leaving the event, Bush allegedly described the ceremony as \"some weird shit\".\n\nIn February 2017, Bush released a book of his own portraits of veterans called \"Portraits of Courage\" (full title: \"Portraits of Courage: A Commander in Chief's Tribute to America's Warriors\").\n\nFollowing the white nationalist Unite the Right rally in Charlottesville, Virginia, Bush and his father released a joint statement condemning the violence and ideologies present at the rally; \"America must always reject racial bigotry, anti-Semitism, and hatred in all forms. As we pray for Charlottesville, we are all reminded of the fundamental truths recorded by that city’s most prominent citizen in the Declaration of Independence: we are all created equal and endowed by our Creator with unalienable rights. We know these truths to be everlasting because we have seen the decency and greatness of our country.\" Their statement came as President Trump was facing controversy over his statements about the rally. Subsequently, Bush gave a speech in New York where he noted of the current political climate, \"Bigotry seems emboldened. Our politics seems more vulnerable to conspiracy theories and outright fabrication.\" He continued, \"Bigotry in any form is blasphemy against the American creed and it means the very identity of our nation depends on the passing of civic ideals to the next generation,\" while urging citizens to oppose threats to American democracy and be positive role models for young people. The speech was widely interpreted as a denouncement of Donald Trump and his ideologies, despite Bush not mentioning Trump by name.\n\nIn April 2018, Bush and his father met in Texas with Mohammad bin Salman, the crown prince and de facto ruler of Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn January 2010, at President Obama's request, Bush and Bill Clinton established the Clinton Bush Haiti Fund to raise contributions for relief and recovery efforts following the 2010 Haiti earthquake earlier that month.\n\nOn May 2, 2011, President Obama called Bush, who was at a restaurant with his wife, to inform him that Osama bin Laden had been killed. The Bushes joined the Obamas in New York City to mark the tenth anniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. At the Ground Zero memorial, Bush read a letter that President Abraham Lincoln wrote to a widow who lost five sons during the Civil War.\n\nOn September 7, 2017, Bush partnered with former presidents Jimmy Carter, George H. W. Bush, Bill Clinton, and Barack Obama to work with One America Appeal to help the victims of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma in the Gulf Coast and Texas communities.\n\nAfter serving as president, Bush began painting as a hobby after reading Winston Churchill's essay \"Painting as a Pastime\". Subjects have included people, dogs, and still life. He has also painted self-portraits and portraits of world leaders, including Vladimir Putin and Tony Blair. In February 2017, Bush released a book of portraits of veterans, \"Portraits of Courage\". The net proceeds from his book are donated to the George W. Bush Presidential Center.\n\nBill Arning, director of the Contemporary Arts Museum Houston, called his portraits \"thickly painted in what I would call 'high-amateur' mode\" and wrote, \"I would say they need to be less based on photographic reproduction. You can tell when someone is taking a found photograph and making a painting out of it [...] I think he'd be well advised to work from other, multiple photographic sources or the real person to get a little bit more liveliness going on.\"\n\n\nPresident Bush's legacy continues to develop today. Supporters credit Bush's counterterrorism policies with preventing another major terrorist attack from occurring in the US after 9/11 and also praise individual policies such as the Medicare prescription drug benefit and the AIDS relief program known as PEPFAR. Critics often point to his handling of the Iraq War, specifically the failure to find weapons of mass destruction, that were the main rationale behind the initial invasion—as well as his handling of tax policy, Hurricane Katrina, climate change and the 2008 financial crisis—as proof that George W. Bush was unfit to be president.\n\nSeveral historians and commentators hold the view that Bush was one of the most consequential presidents in American history. Princeton University scholar Julian Zelizer described Bush's presidency as a \"transformative\" one, and said that \"some people hate him, some people love him, but I do think he'll have a much more substantive perception as time goes on\". Bryon Williams of \"The Huffington Post\" referred to Bush as \"the most noteworthy president since FDR\" and said that the Patriot Act \"increased authority of the executive branch at the expense of judicial opinions about when searches and seizures are reasonable\" as evidence. Bush's administration presided over the largest tax cuts since the Reagan administration, and his homeland security reforms proved to be the most significant expansion of the federal government since the Great Society. Much of these policies have endured in the administrations of his two immediate successors, Barack Obama and Donald Trump. A 2010 Siena Research Institute survey of the opinions of historians, political scientists, and presidential scholars ranked him 39th out of 43 presidents. The survey respondents gave President Bush low ratings on his handling of the U.S. economy, communication, ability to compromise, foreign policy accomplishments, and intelligence.\n\nAmong the public, his reputation has improved somewhat since his presidency ended in 2009. In February 2012, Gallup reported that \"Americans still rate George W. Bush among the worst presidents, though their views have become more positive in the three years since he left office.\" Gallup had earlier noted that Bush's favorability ratings in public opinion surveys had begun to rise a year after he had left office, from 40 percent in January 2009 and 35 percent in March 2009, to 45 percent in July 2010, a period during which he had remained largely out of the news. Other pollsters have noted similar trends of slight improvement in Bush's personal favorability since the end of his presidency. In April 2013, Bush's approval rating stood at 47 percent approval and 50 percent disapproval in a poll jointly conducted for \"The Washington Post\" and ABC, his highest approval rating since December 2005. Bush had achieved notable gains among seniors, non-college whites, and moderate and conservative Democrats since leaving office, although majorities disapproved of his handling of the economy (53 percent) and the Iraq War (57 percent). His 47 percent approval rating was equal to that of President Obama's in the same polling period. A CNN poll conducted that same month found that 55 percent of Americans said Bush's presidency had been a failure, with opinions divided along party lines, and 43 percent of independents calling it a success. Bush's public image saw greater improvement starting in 2017, which has been interpreted as Democrats viewing him more favorably in response to Donald Trump's presidency, an assessment that has also been expressed by Bush himself.\n\n\nAcademic\n\nReflections on the Bush presidency\n\nPrimary sources\n\nOfficial\nSpeeches and statements\nMedia coverage\nOther\n"}
{"id": "22686655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22686655", "title": "Global Center for Health Innovation", "text": "Global Center for Health Innovation\n\nThe Global Center for Health Innovation, also known as the Medical Mart, is a $465 million joint venture by Cuyahoga County and MMPI to construct a permanent showroom of medical, surgical and hospital goods along with a new Huntington Convention Center of Cleveland in downtown Cleveland, Ohio. Construction of the project, which is largely being funded by a 0.25% sales tax increase passed by Cuyahoga County commissioners in 2007, began in May 2011. , construction of the joint Medical Mart-Cleveland Convention Center is well underway on the historic Mall.The Medical Mart concept is modeled after that of the Merchandise Mart in Chicago, and will be managed by MMPI, the same company that operates the Merchandise Mart.\n\nThe center is attached to the Hilton Cleveland Downtown Hotel.\n"}
{"id": "7635393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7635393", "title": "Good engineering practice", "text": "Good engineering practice\n\n\"Good engineering practice\" or \"GEP\" is engineering and technical activities that ensure that a company manufactures products of the required quality as expected (e.g., by the relevant regulatory authorities). Good engineering practices are to ensure that the development and/or manufacturing effort consistently generates deliverables that support the requirements for qualification or validation. Good engineering practices are applied to all industries that require engineering.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28924074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28924074", "title": "Guggenheim Treasure", "text": "Guggenheim Treasure\n\nThe Guggenheim Treasure was lost on September 26, 1903. The barge \"Harold\" moved out of dock at the South Street Seaport in New York City with 7,700 silver and lead ingots, bound for American Smelting and Refining Company in Perth Amboy, New Jersey. The silver and the smelters belonged to the Guggenheim family. The barge sank off Staten Island, and was never recovered.\n"}
{"id": "44409790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44409790", "title": "Harcourt Caughey", "text": "Harcourt Caughey\n\nSir Thomas Harcourt Clarke \"Pat\" Caughey (4 July 1911 – 4 August 1993) was a New Zealand rugby union player.\n\nBorn in Auckland in 1911, Caughey was the son of James Marsden Caughey, whose aunt, Marianne Smith (née Caughey), founded in 1880 what became Smith & Caughey's department store. Educated at King's College, he excelled at sports, playing in the 1st XV rugby and 1st XI cricket teams, and winning the school athletics, swimming and boxing championships.\n\nA centre three-quarter, Caughey represented Auckland at a provincial level, and was a member of the New Zealand national side, the All Blacks, from 1932 to 1937. He played 39 matches for the All Blacks including nine internationals.\n\nCaughey played for Auckland University RFC and represented the Auckland provincial team and the national team before his 21st birthday. He toured Australia with the All Blacks in both 1932 and 1934, playing as a centre. He was one of 188 players who took part in the All Blacks trials for the 1935–36 New Zealand rugby union tour of Britain, Ireland and Canada, and was selected for the final touring party. During the journey to Europe the tour management decided to play Caughey at second five-eighth, in which position he played 20 tour matches including three of the four tests. Caughey scored 14 tries on tour including a hat-trick against Scotland, which were the only tries of his international career.\n\nCaughey played two more tests for New Zealand, in 1936 and 1937, before business commitments ended his high-level rugby career. In addition to his nine full internationals he played 30 non-test games for the All Blacks, scoring 31 tries. Rugby journalist Terry McLean, whose brother Hugh was a teammate of Caughey on the 1935–36 tour, described Caughey as 'an elegant and stylish back of English style' and Charlie Oliver, vice-captain of the 1935–36 tour, assessed him as 'a temperamental player. He was a world beater on his day and was in the match-winner class, but he was liable to be inconsistent. His dashing attacks, and wonderful sense of anticipation, were features of the team's play. His defence, however, was not up to the same standard'.\n\nCaughey worked at the family department store, Smith & Caughey, for 63 years beginning in 1930, and was managing director and chairman of the company for 30 years. He served on the Auckland Hospital Board for 25 years, including 15 years as chair.\n\nIn the 1967 New Year Honours, Caughey was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for community services, especially as chair of the Auckland Hospital Board. Five years later, in the 1972 New Year Honours, he was made a Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire, for services to health administration.\n\nHe was appointed an Officer of the Order of St John in 1965, and promoted to Commander of the same order in 1968. In 1986, Caughey was awarded an honorary LLD by the University of Auckland. He died in Auckland in 1993 and his ashes were buried in Purewa Cemetery. He was posthumously inducted into the New Zealand business hall of fame in 1998.\n"}
{"id": "4927364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4927364", "title": "Higher Education Act of 1965", "text": "Higher Education Act of 1965\n\nThe Higher Education Act of 1965 (HEA) () was legislation signed into United States law on November 8, 1965, as part of President Lyndon Johnson's Great Society domestic agenda. Johnson chose Texas State University (then called \"Southwest Texas State College\"), his alma mater, as the signing site. The law was intended \"to strengthen the educational resources of our colleges and universities and to provide financial assistance for students in postsecondary and higher education\". It increased federal money given to universities, created scholarships, gave low-interest loans for students, and established a National Teachers Corps. The \"financial assistance for students\" is covered in Title IV of the HEA.\n\nThe Higher Education Act of 1965 was reauthorized in 1968, 1972, 1976, 1980, 1986, 1992, 1998, and 2008. Current authorization for the programs in the Higher Education Act expired at the end of 2013, but has been extended through 2015 while Congress prepares changes and amendments. Before each re-authorization, Congress amends additional programs, changes the language and policies of existing programs, or makes other changes.\n\nIn January 1965, Representative Edith Green of Oregon introduced H. R. 3220 as a bill to \"strengthen the educational resources of our colleges and universities and to provide financial assistance for students in postsecondary education.\" Senator Wayne Morse of Oregon introduced the Senate version of the bill, S. 600. The bills sought to create an advisor council to review teacher training programs and to create a National Teacher Corps, which would recruit teachers to serve in low-income areas and train teachers through internships. Other provisions of the bills included financial aid, scholarships, work study, and library enhancements. Throughout 1965 numerous hearings were held by Special Subcommittee on Education and the Education Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare held numerous hearings. Based on the recommendations of University administrators, educators and student aid officers, a new bill was introduced: H. R. 9567. It was passed by the House of Representatives on August 26 and the Senate passed the bill on September 2.\n\nIn signing the Higher Education Act of 1965 into law, President Johnson said that the act, along with the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 as \"keystones of the great, fabulous 89th Congress\" that would spread \"the roots of change and reform\" throughout the nation.\n\nThe Gaining Early Awareness and Readiness for Undergraduate Programs (GEAR UP) was first authorized under the Higher Education Amendments of 1998. Also in the amendments of 1998 is the Aid Elimination Provision, which prevents students with drug charges from receiving federal aid for colleges and universities. This is where question 31 on the FAFSA forms originates. The question asks whether the student has ever been convicted of a drug crime while receiving federal financial aid. This statutory provision was upheld by the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in the face of a constitutional challenge by the ACLU in the case of \"Students for Sensible Drug Policy v. Spellings\".\n\nThe amendments also included a provision [HEA Section 487(a)(23)] requiring universities to make a good faith effort to encourage voter registration of students on their campuses. This requirement applies only to institutions located in states that require voter registration prior to election day and do not allow registration the day of the election. Institutions receive registration forms from the state after requesting them at least 120 days prior to the voter registration deadline, and must make them \"widely available\" to students.\n\nIn 2003, much of the Higher Education Act was set to expire. As a result, a number of minority groups united to ask for certain changes. Calling themselves the Alliance for Equity in Higher Education, this group was made up of \"the American Indian Higher Education Consortium, the Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities, and the National Association for Equal Opportunity in Higher Education, an advocacy group for historically black colleges and universities, [and they] presented their joint recommendations for the reauthorization of the Higher Education Act.\" The Alliance aimed to help minority students enter fields where they seemed to be underrepresented and to give incentives to minorities to enter these programs. These incentives included more lenience on loan collection and full government funding for minority education. The Alliance also called for the government to create funding for students in graduate programs of universities serving the minority population.\n\nEven though the Alliance's request to change the Higher Education Act was heard, significant parts were denied. In 2003, the request for increasing the amount offered in a Pell Grant, to better cover a student's expenses, was denied by the Senate. Still, other issues were corrected. There was a section passed, by the House, that did allow more funds to go to institutions, in order to keep them current; and a grace period for colleges asking for more loans was eliminated. So, if more funding were needed, minority institutions would not have to wait.\n\nWith the changes proposed in 2003, the actual Higher Education Act was not reauthorized. Instead, many of its sections were renewed, with little radical change. Numerous extensions have followed, with the most recent extension lasting through August 15, 2008. The Senate passed an HEA reauthorization bill in July 2007, as did the House of Representatives in February 2008.\n\nOn August 14, 2008, the Higher Education Opportunity Act (Public Law 110-315) (HEOA) was enacted. It reauthorized the amended version of the Higher Education Act of 1965. This act made major changes in student loan discharges for disabled people. Previously, to qualify for a discharge, a disabled person could have no income. This has been changed to a no \"substantial gainful activity\" test, which is the same standard used by the Social Security Administration in determining eligibility for Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI). The changes took effect on July 1, 2010.\n\nAlso included in the 2008 revision of the HEOA were provisions requiring action by U.S. colleges and universities to combat illegal file sharing. Following significant lobbying by the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA) and Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), the additions to the HEOA of 2008 included requirements that all U.S. colleges and universities (1) release and annual disclosure to students regarding copyright laws and associated campus policies, (2) a written plan, submitted to the Department of Education, to combat copyright abuse using one or more technology-based deterrents, and (3) an offer to students of alternatives to illegal downloading. Significant controversy surrounded the inclusion of anti-P2P legislation into HEOA of 2008, resulting in a letter from a number of leaders in higher education.\n\nAdditionally, the College Cost Reduction and Access Act (CCRA), a budget reconciliation bill signed into law in September 2007, made significant changes to federal financial aid programs included in HEA. In addition to increasing the maximum Pell Grant award and reducing interest rates on subsidized student loans, this bill capped loan repayment at 15% of an individual’s discretionary income, raised the income protection allowance, enacted loan forgiveness for public servants in the Direct Loan program, set publicly funded student loans to fixed rates from variable rate loans, and took actions to address problematic practices in the lending industry. Most CCRA provisions took effect on October 1, 2007.\n\nThe law for the first time also required post-secondary institutions be more transparent about costs and required the nearly 7,000 post-secondary institutions that receive federal financial aid funds (Title IV) to post net price calculators on their websites as well as security and copyright policies by October 29, 2011.\n\nAs defined in HEOA, the net price calculator's purpose is \"to help current and prospective students, families, and other consumers estimate the individual net price of an institution of higher education for a student. The [net price] calculator shall be developed in a manner that enables current and prospective students, families, and consumers to determine an estimate of a current or prospective student’s individual net price at a particular institution.\"\n\nThe law defines \"estimated net price\" as the difference between an institution's average total Price of Attendance (the sum of tuition and fees, room and board, books and supplies, and other expenses including personal expenses and transportation for a first-time, full-time undergraduate students who receive aid) and the institution's median need- and merit-based grant aid awarded.\n\nElise Miller, program director for the United States Department of Education's Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS), stated the idea behind the requirement: \"We just want to break down the myth of sticker price and get beyond it. This is to give students some indication that they will not [necessarily] be paying that full price.\"\n\nThe template was developed based on the suggestions of the IPEDS' Technical Review Panel (TRP), which met on January 27–28, 2009, and included 58 individuals representing federal and state governments, post-secondary institutions from all sectors, association representatives, and template contractors. Mary Sapp, assistant vice president for planning and institutional research at the University of Miami, served as the panel's chair. She described the mandate's goal \"to provide prospective and current undergraduate students with some insight into the difference between an institution's sticker price and the price they will end up paying\".\n\nThe TRP faced the difficult challenge of creating one tool that could be used by a wide variety of institutions – from small, for-profit career schools to major research universities – while balancing simplicity for users.\n\nTo meet the requirement, post-secondary institutions may choose either a basic template developed by the U.S. Department of Education or an alternate net price calculator that offers at least the minimum elements required by law.\n\nAs part of its cost-transparency measures, HEOA of 2008 requires also on the College Navigator Web site a report giving the average institutional net price of attendance for first-time, full-time students who receive financial aid. This also forms the basis for transparency lists; a report on the College Navigator Web site the institutional net price of attendance for Title IV aid recipients by income categories; and for the U.S. Department of Education to develop a multi-year tuition and required-fees calculator for undergraduate programs for the College Navigator Web site.\n\nThe HEA has been criticized for establishing statutory pricing of federal student loans based on political considerations rather than pricing based on risk.\n\nThe 2008 reauthorization of the Higher Education Act also maintained the requirement that universities must make an effort to register students to vote. A 2013 Dear Colleague letter from the U.S. Department of Education stated that universities “must make the voter registration forms widely available to [their] students and distribute the forms individually to [their] degree or certificate program students who are physically in attendance at [their] institution. Distribution by regular or electronic mail is permitted.”\n\nDuring this reform period of 2008, Title VI of the HEA was reviewed. \nTitle VI provides federal funds to 129 international studies and foreign language centers at universities nationwide. The objective of this act is to ensure and encourage diverse perspectives in order to enhance national security. As such, Title VI supplies grants for international language studies, business and international education programs as well as international policy. Moreover, the recipients of these funds are required to engage in ‘public outreach’ for K-12, teachers, educators and the general public.\n\nOver the past decade concerns have been raised over these title VI funded programs. Conservative critics have emphasized that many of the international programs funded engage in biased, anti-American and anti-Israel rhetoric, with no offers of counterbalance.\n\nCertainly, a 2006 review mandated by Congress found that the programs were not reaching their goals. Seeking to rectify this, Congress expressed the need for greater oversight by the Department of Education, as well as an investigation to ensure these programs reflected \"diverse perspectives\".\n\nDespite these reforms, the issues within Title VI have been deemed endemic. Writing in \"The Hill\", Louis D. Brandeis Center Founder Kenneth L. Marcus argued that \"title VI doesn’t need to be tweaked-it needs to be overhauled\". This declaration followed a joint statement released by 10 groups on September 17, 2014, which the Brandeis Center coordinated.\n\nThis joint statement expressed the deep concerns over the misuse of tax payer money, arguing that \"these outreach programs, which have no congressional oversight, often disseminate anti-American and anti-Israel falsehoods.\" Furthermore, the groups voiced the opinion that \" too often exclude scholars with diverse perspectives while stifling discourse on critical issues. The biased learning environment that results suppresses the academic freedom of students and faculty with different views. At some institutions, students are afraid to disagree with their professors.\" \nThis statement was accompanied by a white paper published by the Brandeis Center as well as a report by the AMCHA Initiative underscoring the negative effects this biased perspective produces on campuses, UCLA specifically. The AMCHA study found that \"any time UCLA’s center sponsored or co-sponsored an event mentioning Israel from Fall 2010 to Spring 2013, 93% of the time the mention was negative and critical – as if Israel is a blight on the planet.\"\n\nUCLA's media relations office issued a statement saying that the university \"remains dedicated to complying with all federal laws and respecting the free and open exchange of ideas representing diverse viewpoints.\" \n\nIn light of such issues, the joint statement calls for changes in the Title VI program which would 1) \"[r]equire recipients of Title VI funds to establish grievance procedures to address complaints that programs are not reflecting diverse perspectives and a wide range of views\" and 2) \"[r]equire the U.S. Department of Education to establish a formal complaint-resolution process similar to that in use to enforce Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.\" \n\nResponding to this statement Amy W. Newhall, executive director of the Middle East Studies Association of North America (MESA), asserted that MESA \"resolutely opposes all forms of hate speech and discrimination, including anti-Semitism,\" but \"is concerned that some of the reports issued by partisan political groups based outside academia may actually weaken efforts to combat anti-Semitism by portraying all criticism of Israeli policies as a form of anti-Semitism or as ‘anti-Israel.’\" \n\nHowever, as Kenneth L. Marcus asserts in a letter to the editor of \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\" the co-signatories of the joint statement \" urge the opposite: accountability systems to ensure that these programs offer the diversity of perspectives that existing law requires.\"\nAs said statement concludes: \"Arguably, Title VI programs no longer serve a legitimate purpose... In 2011, Congress reduced Title VI funding nationwide by 40 percent, from $34 million to $18 million. Unless effective and necessary reforms can be enacted, Congress may have to consider reducing or eliminating Title VI funding from Middle East studies centers.\" \n\nAfter being reauthorized in 2008, the Higher Education Act was set to expire in 2013, but was re-extended to allow Congress time to work on the next reauthorization. In December 2017, House Republicans announced that they had finalized an overhaul of the act, authored primarily by Representative Virginia Foxx of (R - N.C.), the chairwoman of the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. The new bill is called the Promoting Real Opportunity, Success and Prosperity Through Education Reform (PROSPER) Act. The act aims to simplify the federal financial aid process and expand federal work study programs. It would also repeal two Obama-era programs - “gainful employment” and “borrower defense” - aimed at preventing financial exploitation of undergraduates, as well as bar their readoption.\n\nAccording to Committee spokesman Michael Woeste, “the reforms within the PROSPER Act are necessary to provide students with a high-quality education, and fix a system that has not been serving their needs.”\n\nSome concerns have been raised by advocacy groups about how the PROSPER Act would affect LGBTQ students. According to the Human Rights Campaign, “The PROSPER Act contains several provisions that would allow for the use of religion to justify otherwise prohibited discrimination that could negatively impact LGBTQ students.”\n\nAdditionally, the PROSPER Act includes a weaker version of the provision requiring universities to increase student voter registration, a requirement present in the Higher Education Act since 1998. Critics worry that this change will lead to lower youth turnout in elections, as voter turnout is already historically lowest among young voters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3738142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3738142", "title": "Houston Theater District", "text": "Houston Theater District\n\nThe Houston Theater District, a 17-block area in the heart of Downtown Houston, Texas, United States, is home to Houston's nine professional performing arts organizations, the Bayou Place entertainment complex, restaurants, movies, plazas, and parks. More than two million people visit the Houston Theater District annually.\n\nThe district, with 12,948 seats for live performances and 1,580 movie seats, ranks second in the United States for the number of theater seats in a concentrated downtown area, and is one of only five cities with permanent professional resident companies in all of the major performing arts disciplines: the Houston Grand Opera, the Houston Symphony Orchestra, the Houston Ballet, Theatre Under the Stars and The Alley Theatre.\nHouston is recognized as an important city for contemporary visual arts. The city is a prime stop for touring companies from Broadway; concerts and shows, from The Rolling Stones to Cirque du Soleil; and exhibitions for a variety of interests, ranging from the nation's largest quilting show to auto, boat, and home shows.\n\nThe Houston Grand Opera is the only opera company in the U.S. to win a Grammy, a Tony, and an Emmy. In 2007, Da Camera of Houston was awarded the CMAcclaim Award from Chamber Music America, for significant contribution to the cultural life of its region.\n\nThe Tony Award winning Alley Theatre, founded in 1947, is Texas’ oldest professional theatre company. The Alley is the third oldest continually operating theatre in the United States. It is considered to be one of the foremost theatre company in the United States outside of New York City and was a pioneering company of the regional theatre movement.\n\n\nOne of the several attractions in the district is the Bayou Place Entertainment Complex—a large multilevel building that is home to full-service restaurants, bars, live music, billiards, multiple theaters, and art house films. The Revention Music Center - Formerly Houston Bayou Music Center and the Verizon Wireless Theatre- stages a variety of live concerts, and the [Sundance Theatre - Formerly the Angelika Theatre] presents the latest in art, foreign, and independent films.\n\nEarly venues in the district were the Sam Houston Coliseum and the Houston Music Hall.\n\nThe district is served by METRORail light rail service at Theater District Station.\n\n"}
{"id": "22678155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22678155", "title": "Ingrid Antonijevic", "text": "Ingrid Antonijevic\n\nIngrid Antonijevic Hahn (born 22 July 1952) is a Chilean economist, entrepreneur, academic and former Minister of Economy, Development and Reconstruction (2006) for only two months, in the first cabinet of socialist president Michelle Bachelet. In her youth, she was a militant in the MAPU organisation, and after the end of the Pinochet regime she was one of the founders of the Party for Democracy (\"Partido Por la Democracia a.k.a. PPD\") that has led the transition towards democracy in Chile. She is a progressive entrepreneur who promotes corporate social responsibility and the involvement of the private sector in projects initiated by the government that aim to benefit the whole country. She has acquired notoriety in her country for holding positions in organisations that have traditionally been held by men.\n\nAntonijevic was born in the northern Chilean port city of Iquique in the Tarapacá Region to a politically right-wing upper middle class family. She is the youngest daughter of Croatian immigrant and entrepreneur, Leandro Antonijevic Bezmalinović, and Ingeborg Hahn Von Neumann from Germany.\n\nAt the age of 7 her family transferred to Santiago, Chile where she continued her education and excelled academically, graduating in economics from the University of Chile. As a young student radical she became a militant in the MAPU organisation that formed part of the Popular Unity coalition headed by Salvador Allende that was overthrown in a military coup on September 11, 1973.\n\nIn 2006 she was awarded the \"Circle of Honour\" by the University of Chile in recognition of her services to the public sector and for being among the most prominent graduates of this university.\n\nAntonijevic was interested in meditation for many years before she became a devotee of zen meditation after a holiday in Japan, where she became a student of zen Buddhist priest Gudo Wafu Nishijima. She lives and works in Santiago, Chile and promotes zen meditation among her employees in the workplace. She has two elder sisters, Nadja and Ilona, two children, Felipe and Carolina Saint Jean, and two grandchildren.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37030446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37030446", "title": "Ivo Stern", "text": "Ivo Stern\n\nDr. Ivo Stern (24 December 1889 – 1961) was Croatian lawyer, writer, journalist, director and founder of the \"Zagreb Radiostation\" (now Croatian Radiotelevision).\n\nStern was born to a wealthy Jewish family on 24 December 1889 in Zagreb. He studied and graduated at the Faculty of Law at the University of Zagreb in 1913. After graduation, he practiced the law for a while. After World War I, in which he participated as a soldier in the Austro-Hungarian Army, Stern lived in Vienna. In 1926 as the head of the Zagreb group of bankers and industrials, despite the opposition from Belgrade, Stern founded the \"Zagreb Radiostation\". Stern was first director and major shareholder of the \"Zagreb Radiostation\". He was also the program editor until 1938. Stern was close friend of Croatian writer Milan Begović.\n\nDistinctly higher in education, polyglot, charming and elegant, financially independent, Stern fraternize with many Croatian writers. His apartment in Jurišićeva street was a place of elegant banquets. He was a member of the Croatian Freemasonry and founder of the elite \"Rotary Club\" which had predominantly Masonic membership.\n\nStern wrote left pacifist oriented emphatic expressive poetry, which was published in the magazine \"Plamen\". He also wrote political feuilletons. One of his feuilletons was devoted to the problem of the Jewish diaspora in the new post-war Europe, for which he was criticized and accused that he represents the Jewish messianism of Bolsheviks, Leon Trotsky and Béla Kun.\n\nIn the eve of World War II, Stern changed his surname to Globnik and moved to Italy where he died in 1961.\n"}
{"id": "40142408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40142408", "title": "Jameson cell", "text": "Jameson cell\n\nThe Jameson Cell is a high-intensity froth flotation cell that was invented by Laureate Professor Graeme Jameson of the University of Newcastle (Australia) and developed in conjunction with Mount Isa Mines Limited (\"MIM\", a subsidiary of MIM Holdings Limited and now part of the Glencore group of companies).\n\nThe high intensity of the Jameson Cell means that it is much shorter than conventional column flotation cells (see Figure 1), and it does not require air compressors to aerate the suspension of ground ore particles and water (known as a \"slurry\" or \"pulp\") in the flotation cell. The lack of a requirement for compressed air and the lack of moving parts means that power consumption is less than for the equivalent mechanical or conventional column flotation cell.\nIn contrast to most types of flotation cell, the Cell introduces the feed and the air to the Cell in a combined stream via one or more cylindrical columns referred to as \"downcomers\". Other types of flotation cell typically introduce the feed and the air separately to the cell.\n\nThe Cell produces fast mineral flotation rates, especially for very fine mineral particles. It produces high concentrate grades from fast floating liberated particles and is able to do this from a single stage of flotation. The high carrying capacity of the Jameson Cell is particularly beneficial when high yields (mass pulls) are required, such as in recleaning in metals flotation and in the flotation of metallurgical coal, where yields can exceed 80%.\n\nThe Cell was initially developed as a lower-cost alternative to conventional column flotation cells for recovering fine particles, and was first used in the Mount Isa lead–zinc concentrator in 1988. Since then, use of the technology has spread to include coal flotation, base and precious metal flotation, potash flotation, oil sands flotation, molybdenum flotation, graphite flotation and cleaning solvent extraction liquors. Xstrata Technology, Glencore Xstrata's technology marketing arm, listed 328 Jameson Cell installations in May 2013. Cells have been installed by 94 companies in 27 countries. Today, the technology is the standard in the Australian Coal Industry where well over one hundred Cells have been installed to recover coal fines. It is mainly used in metals applications to solve final grade and capacity issues from conventional cell cleaner circuits. It has found a niche in transforming traditional circuit designs where its inclusion allows cleaner circuits to be designed with fewer cells in a smaller footprint, while achieving cleaner and/or higher grade concentrates. It has also made possible the recovery of previously discarded fine materials, such as coal and phosphate fines, thereby increasing the efficiency and extending the life of the world's non-renewable natural resources.\n\nFroth flotation is achieved by mixing chemicals known as collectors with the ore slurry. The collectors adsorb onto the surfaces of the particles of select minerals (usually the valuable mineral that is targeted for concentration), making these minerals hydrophobic. Air is passed through the slurry in a tank known as a flotation cell. The air is broken into tiny bubbles by various mechanisms (depending on the design of the flotation cell), and the now-hydrophobic minerals attach to the bubbles, rising with them to the surface of the flotation cell, where they form a froth. The froth flows over the top edge (or \"lip\") of the flotation cell and forms the flotation concentrate. Ideally, none of the unwanted mineral particles float, and they remain behind as the flotation tailings.\n\nHowever, the selectivity of the collection mechanism is not perfect. Some unwanted (\"gangue\") minerals are also carried into the froth, largely by entrainment with the water rising with the bubbles. This is particularly the case for particles less than 10 µm in size. Some of the gangue particles follow the water between the bubbles as it drains back to the underlying pulp. This process can be assisted by the application of sufficient \"wash water\" to the froth to displace the water entrained with the bubbles and the fine gangue particles brought with them. Column flotation cells, invented in Canada by Boutin and Tremblay in 1961, grew increasingly popular in the 1980s and 1990s as a way of reducing entrainment of fine gangue particles during \"cleaning\" of flotation concentrates. With heights usually between 6 and 14 meters, they could have froth depths up to 2 m, providing more residence time than conventional cells and more stable froth surfaces that enable better froth washing.\nFroth flotation efficiency is determined by a series of probabilities: those of particle–bubble contact, particle–bubble attachment, transport between the pulp and the froth, and froth collection into the product launder.\n\nIn a conventional mechanically agitated cell, the void fraction is low (5–10%) and the bubble size is large (2–3 mm), which results in a low interfacial area with a low probability of particle–bubble contact. In a conventional flotation column, the void fraction is similarly low, and so the probability of particle–bubble contact is increased by increasing the height of the column to provide greater residence time.\n\nTraditionally, the ore slurry and the air are introduced separately to the flotation cell (see Figure 2). The Jameson Cell differs from this traditional approach by mixing the slurry with the air in the downcomers.\nThe slurry is introduced at the top of the downcomer as a jet that draws in air through a second pipe to form a stable two-phase mixture (see Figure 3). The plunging slurry jet shears and then entrains the air. The target minerals, with their collector-coated surfaces, attach to the bubbles and this mixture travels down the downcomer, driven by hydrostatic forces, before it is discharged into the tank portion of the Jameson Cell (see Figure 4). The downcomer is designed to provide high-intensity mixing of the air and the slurry to generate a dense foam of fine bubbles and maximise the contact between the target mineral particles and the bubbles. The probability of particle–bubble contact is \"virtually 100%\" with a slurry residence time in the downcomer of 5–10 seconds.\nThe high probability of particle–bubble contact, and subsequent short residence times (five to ten seconds in the downcomer, allows for a much more compact column design than conventional column flotation cells (see Figure 1). The fine nature of the bubbles (0.3 to 0.5 mm in diameter) gives them enhanced carrying capabilities for fine mineral particles. Fine bubbles also improve the separation of minerals, as they intensify the difference in the flotation kinetics of the valuable minerals from the gangue minerals, thus allowing higher grade concentrates to be produced.\n\nThe foam in the downcomer is about 50–60% air. Because of this, the pulp is distributed in the form of thin interfacial slurry films between the bubbles, providing an ideal environment for particle–bubble contact. Collection occurs by migration of the particles within the thin films, which are not much thicker than the diameter of the particles.\nThe best collection occurs when the volume of air roughly equals that of the injected slurry.\n\nThe Cell is operated by initially closing the air inlet at the top of the downcomer and feeding the flotation pulp in through the nozzle. The air in the downcomer is entrained in the pulp, creating a partial vacuum that draws pulp from the tank up into the downcomer. The pulp level quickly reaches the nozzle, which is at a level above that of the liquid level in the tank. This creates a hydrostatic head in the downcomer, meaning that the pressure inside the top of the downcomer is lower than the atmospheric pressure. When the inlet is opened, air is drawn into the top space of the downcomer by this lower pressure, where it too is entrained into the downcomer contents by the plunging jet. At the same time, a downward flow is established in the pulp in the downcomer that is sufficient to counter the buoyancy of the bubbles, and the aerated pulp discharges into the tank.\n\nOnce in the tank, the wider cross sectional area of the tank reduces the downward superficial velocity of the mixture, allowing mineral-laden bubbles to disengage from the liquid and rise to the surface as they would in a conventional cell, where they form the froth. The velocity of the mixture discharging into the tank, and the large density differential between it and the remainder of the pulp in the tank, results in recirculating fluid patterns that keep the particles in the tank in suspension without requiring mechanical agitation.\n\nThe purpose of the tank is simply for bubble–pulp separation, so the volume of the tank is small compared with alternative technologies.\n\nThe froth that forms at the top of the tank flows over its lip to be collected. This froth can be \"washed\" by a light flow of water, if desired. The bubbles flowing over the lip of the cell are smaller in diameter than those that flow over the lip of conventional flotation columns.\n\nThe non-floating tailings are discharged through a hole in the bottom of the tank.\n\nThe Cell has no moving parts and no requirement for compressed air or sparging mechanisms. This results in lower power consumption than the equivalent mechanical or column flotation cells. Maintenance costs are also lower because the only wearing part is the slurry lens used to create the jet in the downcomer.\n\nThe Jameson Cell grew out of a long-term research program aimed at improving the recovery of fine particles by flotation. The work started at Imperial College London, and continued when Jameson moved in 1978 to the University of Newcastle, NSW, Australia, where he is Laureate Professor (2015).\n\nJameson’s research into flotation began when he was at Imperial College London, in 1969. A colleague, Dr J A Kitchener of the Royal School of Mines, pointed out that many of the new mineral deposits being found around the world required fine grinding to separate the valuable particles from the rock in which they were embedded, and the flotation technologies available at the time were relatively inefficient for recovering fine particles. Kitchener felt that improvements could best be achieved by an increased knowledge of the physics of flotation, rather than the chemistry of the reagents. Jameson had gained some expertise in the properties of bubbles and particles in suspensions whilst a PhD student at Cambridge. He began research into the fluid mechanics of the flotation process and set in train a series of experimental projects into the effect of particle diameter and bubble size on the flotation rate constant. Much of the research was conducted by honours students in chemical engineering. Jameson accepted the challenge of coming up with practical solutions to remedy the situation, if these could be identified.\n\nJameson’s research showed that the kinetics of flotation of fine particles was a strong function of the bubble diameter and that the way to improve recoveries was to use small bubbles in the order of 300 µm in diameter. What was needed was a practical method of making such bubbles in large quantities, of the order of billions per second. The device needed to be simple to construct and operate, capable of running for long periods with minimal maintenance, and should be resistant to blockage by stray large particles in the feed. He began to look at the theory of bubble breakup in sheared flows, that is, in flow fields in which layers of liquid slide over each other. Lewis and Davidson had recently published a theory to predict the maximum size of bubbles in a well-characterised flow environment. By balancing the forces acting on a bubble in a shearing flow, including the disruptive dynamic stresses from the liquid motion and the restoring force of surface tension, it was possible to predict the critical shear rate required to produce a bubble of given size. Jameson then looked for simple and practical ways of generating the required shear rates, and found inspiration in the kitchen sink. If a jet of water from a tap plunges into a basin full of water, a shear layer develops around the jet, that entrains air from the atmosphere into the water, and at the same time, breaks up the entrained air into fine bubbles. The effect is magnified if there is a detergent in the water. Detergents, known as frothers, are used in flotation to prevent bubble coalescence, and to create stable froths. By the correct choice of jet velocity and diameter, it is possible to provide a controlled shear environment that can generate bubbles of a suitable size for flotation, with the added advantage that the air is naturally aspirated by the jet, so there is no need for a compressor or blower. Thus the idea of the Jameson Cell was born.\n\nAfter a number of failures, the radical new process for flotation emerged in the laboratory at the University of Newcastle. Jameson filed a provisional patent application in 1986. After an initial trial at the Renison Bell tin mine in Tasmania, certain design features were modified. He led a further plant trial with a small cell in the lead-zinc concentrator at Mt Isa Mines Ltd in Queensland, initially working alone. The plant metallurgists took an interest in the technology and helped to refine it, particularly checking the scale-up procedures that Jameson had devised. In 1988 a recent graduate was assigned full-time for a year to verify and validate the performance of the Cell. In 1989 a worldwide exclusive license was negotiated between Tunra Ltd on behalf of the University of Newcastle, Jameson, and MIM Holdings Limited, for the use of the Cell for metallurgical purposes. Summary papers on the theory and practice have been published.\n\nThere have been ongoing significant changes to the design of the Cell since it was first developed in the late 1980s.\n\nThe commercial development of the Cell occurred indirectly as a result of problems being experienced in MIM's Mount Isa lead–zinc concentrator (sometimes referred to as a \"mill\" in the mining industry). MIM had been operating a lead–zinc concentrator at Mount Isa since 1931, although lead–zinc ore was substituted with copper ore for a time between mid-1943 and mid-1946. Over time, the lead, zinc and other mineral grains in the ore became progressively finer, the ore grade decreased and it became more difficult to treat. These trends, combined with an increase in the concentrator's throughput, significantly reduced the concentrator's performance in the 1980s, resulting in a \"tense\" period of \"an endless circle of circuit changes, reagent changes, operator changes, metallurgist changes, and so on\". The decreasing grain size and pushing the grinding circuit beyond its design throughput meant a reduction in the degree of separation of the individual mineral grains (referred to as \"liberation\") during grinding. From 1984 to 1991, the liberation of sphalerite (the zinc-bearing mineral, ZnS) decreased from almost 70% to just over 50%. This decrease in liberation resulted in a reduction in the recovery of zinc to saleable zinc concentrate.\n\nThe initial response to the problem of decreased zinc recovery was in 1986 to start to produce a lower-grade concentrate that was a mixture of zinc and lead (known in the industry as a \"bulk concentrate\" and referred to at Mount Isa as the \"low-grade middlings concentrate\"). This concentrate typically contained 34% zinc and 13% lead, compared to the normal zinc concentrate composition of at least 50% zinc and less than 3% lead.\n\nBy producing the bulk concentrate, the total recovery of zinc for sale was maintained at over 70% until 1989. However, the high lead content meant that the bulk concentrate could not be treated by the electrolytic zinc process, and it had to be sold to zinc smelters using the more-expensive Imperial Smelting Process. Initially, MIM received good revenue from its bulk concentrate, but as the nature of the ore continued to deteriorate, the production of the bulk concentrate increased and saturated the market. Payment terms declined until MIM received less than half the payment for zinc in the bulk concentrate than it received for zinc in the zinc concentrate.\n\nThe problems in the concentrator also affected the performance of MIM's Mount Isa lead smelter. The lead–zinc ore also contained increasing amounts of fine-grained, carbonaceous pyrite (FeS). This material was naturally hydrophobic and floated without the aid of a collector into the lead concentrate, diluting it. The additional sulfur from the pyrite in the lead concentrate reduced the lead smelter's lead production because the ability to eliminate sulfur from the concentrate was lead smelter's capacity bottleneck.\n\nAs part of the effort to try to fix the problems, MIM installed some column flotation cells in the zinc concentrate and bulk concentrate sections of the plant. In those days, the air was introduced into flotation columns using air spargers, usually in the form of a bag or sheath around a pipe. The spargers were high-maintenance items, and their performance was critical to the operation of the column.\n\nIn 1985, MIM commissioned Jameson to undertake a project to improve the sparger design for flotation columns. Instead, he developed the concept of using a jet in a downcomer to create the bubbles and eliminate the need for a sparger in conventional flotation columns.\nThe concept of the Cell followed when further investigations showed that most of the bubble–particle interactions were occurring in the downcomer, rendering unnecessary the collection zone of flotation columns. The idea of the downcomer and short separation tank was developed and a provisional patent application was lodged in 1986. This patent was later assigned to TUNRA Limited (\"TUNRA\"), the technology transfer company of the University of Newcastle that is now known as \"Newcastle Innovation\".\n\nA pilot two tonne per hour (t/h) Jameson Cell with a 100 mm downcomer and using an orifice plate to create the jet was tested in MIM's lead–zinc concentrator. Subsequently, in 1988, MIM tested the flotation of a stream of fine lead-bearing particles in a conventional mechanical flotation cell, a conventional column and the Jameson Cell. The Cell gave the best recoveries. This was thought to be a combination of the short residence time of the particles in the Cell and the fact that the hydrophobicity of the lead particles decreased over time.\n\nAs a result of this work, in 1989 MIM ordered four full-scale Cells, two for the Mount Isa lead–zinc concentrator and another two for the new Hilton lead–zinc concentrator to be built at the Hilton Mine, located about 20 kilometers north of Mount Isa. The Mount Isa cells had diameters of 1.9 m, with three downcomers each, while those at Hilton were 1.3 m in diameter and had two downcomers each.\n\nIn parallel with this work, the Cell was tested for the recovery of fine coal at the Newlands coal mine, also owned by MIM Holdings Limited. This fines stream was cyclone overflow, which contained 15–50% ash and was previously discarded. The particle size of this stream was less than 25 µm. Pilot plant testing showed that it was possible to achieve greater than 90% recovery of coal, with less than 10% ash in the product.\n\nSubsequently, a full-scale plant was commissioned at Newlands in the 1988–89 financial year, with six rectangular Cells (1.5 m × 3.5 m) installed in a two-stage arrangement. The cells in the first stage had seven downcomers, while those in the second had six.\nThese cells were in continuous operation at Newlands for 15 years until a new washing plant was built to replace the old one in 2006.\n\nTwo additional Cells were installed at MIM Holdings' Collinsville Coal operations in 1990. These had 10 downcomers each.\n\nAlso in 1989, Peko Mines, then a division of North Broken Hill Peko Limited, also engaged Jameson to undertake test work in its Warrego concentrator near Tennant Creek in Australia's Northern Territory. The objective was to determine the Jameson Cell's performance in cleaning copper concentrate to improve its grade by removing gangue minerals, including pyrite, magnetite, hematite and quartz. Peko Mines personnel also tested a conventional flotation column for comparison. Following the test work, Peko Mines installed two full-scale, 1.4 m diameter Jameson Cells in the concentrator, each with three downcomers.\nPeko Mines' decision was based on:\n\n\nPeko Mines reported a payback on the investment in the Cells of two months.\n\nSolvent extraction – electrowinning (often referred to as \"SX–EW\") is a process frequently applied for recovering copper from low-grade and/or oxidised copper ore. It involves leaching the copper from the ore using an acidic solution, collecting the leach liquor containing the copper and contacting this solution with an organic extractant. The copper ions in the leach liquor transfer to the organic extractant, moving from a relatively low concentration to a higher concentration. The extractant is subsequently brought into contact with a second aqueous solution that is more acid than the original leach liquor, and the copper again moves, this time from the extractant into the aqueous solution. The result is an acidic solution of copper in which the copper concentration is high enough for it to be recovered by electrowinning. The solution destined for electrowinning is known as the electrolyte.\nThe electrolyte solution usually contains traces of the organic extractant that exist as tiny droplets within it. These need to be removed before the copper can be recovered in the electrowinning process, as the presence of minimal amounts of the extractant can cause difficulties by stripping and damaging the cathodes with a subsequent loss of cathode copper quality.\n\nIn the late 1980s, MIM built an SX–EW plant at Mount Isa to recover copper leached from low grade ore stockpiled while mining its Black Rock open cut in the 1960s. In a world first, a Jameson Cell was used to clean the electrolyte solution by removing the remaining organic solvent. This replaced the sand filters traditionally used.\n\nThe cell was 3 m high, twice the height of the early Cells used in MIM's lead–zinc concentrators, as it was thought that additional residence time would enhance recovery. It used a single downcomer. The downcomer was used to contact the electrolyte with air and the droplets of the organic extractant attached themselves to the air bubbles created in the downcomer.\n\nAfter some initial modifications to the orifice size, the Cell was able to remove 70–90% of the entrained organic extractant.\n\nIn April 1989, MIM Holdings Limited acquired the world rights to the Jameson Cell from TUNRA, with TUNRA retaining the rights to use the Cell for waste water treatment.\n\nAfter the initial applications within the MIM Holdings group of companies, the years to 1994 saw Jameson Cells installed by various base and precious metals companies in Asia, South Africa, Canada and the United States, mainly in concentrate cleaning duties, but also in SX–EW electrolyte cleaning duties. The installation by Phelps Dodge (now Freeport-McMoRan) for electrolyte cleaning at its Morenci operation in Arizona was notable for having a large cell 6.5 m in diameter with 30 downcomers. The Morenci Jameson Cell consistently recovered over 82% of the organic extractant.\n\nToward the end of the period, Cells were installed in coal preparation plants operated by the BHP Mitsubishi Alliance and by Peabody for fines recovery.\n\nImprovements to this early design included a focus on the weight and wear of the downcomer. The downcomer was originally built with polyurethane-lined steel, and then changed to a high-density polyethylene (\"HDPE\") construction with seven elements.\n\nThe orifice plate used to generate the slurry jet was a high-wear item and its materials of construction were also a focus of the development effort. After testing high-chromium hardened steel and various ceramics, high-density alumina was found to have excellent wear properties, and it became the standard.\n\nThe original Jameson Cell design had the following features:\n\nIn 1994 MIM launched the Mark II model Cell. It incorporated the following changes:\nThese changes resulted in a higher capacity design.\n\nOne of the problems encountered with the Mark I Cell was that its performance was reduced if the feed rate to the cell varied, which was a common occurrence arising from normal fluctuations in operating concentrators. This problem was resolved by recycling some of the tailings to the cell feed via an external splitter box called an \"External Recycle Mechanism\" or \"ERM\" box separate to the flotation cell. Thus, when the production of the feed stream to the Jameson Cell decreased as a result of a fluctuation elsewhere in the concentrator, a higher percentage of the tailings was automatically recycled to the downcomers, producing a constant flow rate, hence feed pressure, to the cell. This had the added benefit of giving a proportion of the tailings (typically 40%) a second pass through the system, which resulted in higher recoveries. In coal fines flotation, this allowed a single Cell to achieve the same recovery of combustibles as had previously been achieved in some two-stage Cell systems. \nSubsequently, an internal recycling system, referred to as the \"internal recycle control\" or \"IRC\" was developed. This was mainly used in integrated rectangular cells (see Figure 6), where the feed tank and tailings recycling system could easily be built in a single unit with the flotation cell. This system reduced the cell installation costs and made the cell more compact.\nDuring this period, the orifice diameter was increased from the 28 mm design used in 1990 to 34 mm with the Mark II model and 38 mm in 1997. This, together with the larger Mark II downcomer diameter, allowed the slurry flow per downcomer to be doubled from 30 m/h in 1990 to 60 m/h in 1997.\n\nThe increased distance between the downcomers reduced the interaction of aerated slurry discharging from adjacent downcomers. This interaction could reduce overall cell recovery by causing particles collected by bubbles in the downcomer to detach in the pulp tank.\n\nThere was significant turbulence in the areas beneath the downcomers. that could result in particles detaching from bubbles. These turbulent areas were calmed by the addition of conical diffusers beneath each downcomer. They allowed uniform bubble rise velocities across the surface of the cell by slowing the superficial gas velocity in the high void-fraction area immediately around the downcomer and provided a more even bubble dispersion. It was reported that the diffusers reduced the turbulence by 69% compared with a standard downcomer with no diffuser.\n\nWhile the JamesonCell continued to expand in base metals concentrate cleaning, SX–EW electrolyte cleaning and coal fines recovery applications, it also found new applications in cleaning potash slimes and was adopted by the Philex Mining Corporation as the sole flotation machine for its Benguet copper concentrator. This is not the normal application for the Cell. No other metals concentrator operates solely using Jameson Cells.\n\nCleveland Potash Limited extracts and refines sylvinite ore from a deposit in North Yorkshire, England. Its processing plant uses froth flotation to produce a product rich in potassium chloride (\"KCl\"). After a test work campaign in which it compared the performance of the Cell with mechanical flotation cells in various duties in the flotation circuit, Cleveland Potash ordered a Cell with 6 downcomers for recovering potash slimes. The test work had shown a 4.8% increase in the recovery of potash slimes, equivalent at the time to an increase in revenue of approximately £518,000 per year.\n\nIn 1993 Philex Mining Corporation, a Philippines mining company, replaced the mechanical cleaner circuit with Cells at its Benguet copper concentrator. Following their successful operation, Philex replaced the mechanical cells in its cleaner-scavenger circuit in 1994 and began the phased introduction of Cell rougher and scavenger lines that was completed in early 1996. This was the first operation in which the external recycle mechanism system was applied. By the time the last Jameson Cell was installed, the entire flotation circuit was composed of Jameson Cells.\n\nThe motivation for installing Jameson Cells was, in part, to take advantage of their space-saving capabilities and to improve copper recovery at a minimum cost. The Cell circuit occupied 60% less floor area and achieved equivalent results to the mechanical banks with 40% of their residence time. They provided a power saving of 18%.\n\nIn addition to these benefits, the use of the Jameson Cells in the rougher and rougher–scavenger section of the plant resulted in a 3.3% increase in copper recovery and a 4.5% increase in gold recovery. When combined with the other Cells in the cleaner, recleaner and cleaner–scavenger section, there was a 2.6% increase in final copper concentrate grade and a 3.5% increase in plant copper recovery, with a 2.6% increase in plant gold recovery.\n\nThe Mark III design encompassed the greatest improvement in the technology since its commercialisation. The focus was to make the technology more robust and easier to use in operations. The total redesign of the downcomer assembly allowed it to be isolated and unblocked much more easily compared to the Mark II design. The Mark III design also saw slurry flow per downcomer to be increased from 60 m/h to 75–85 m/h using larger orifice sizes in the slurry lenses.\n\nThe Mark III Cell was introduced in 2000. It included the following improvements:\nThe earlier models of the Jameson Cell used orifice plates to generate the downcomer jet. The new slurry lens design had a smooth, shallow entry angle that created an optimum flow regime over the ceramic, reducing wear and extending its life. The shape resulted in a decrease in power consumption by the feed slurry pump by up to 10% and resulted in better jet formation that improved air entrainment.\nFor coal applications, the wash water addition system was changed from a tray to stainless-steel circular rings attached to a manual lifting system. This allowed the flexibility of an easy transition from above-froth wash water addition to the in-froth addition that might be necessary for high concentrate-grade operations. For metals applications, new design wash water trays consisting of removable rubber mats for easy maintenance were used. \nThe AISE valves were developed to prevent solids being sucked back into the air lines when individual downcomers become blocked. Solids depositing in the air lines and their build up in the air distributor decreases flotation performance as it prevents air from being efficiently entrained in the downcomers.\n\nThis period was one of rapid growth for the Jameson Cells in the existing applications. Seventy-seven Cells were installed in concentrators around the world, mainly in coal and base metal operations. However, during this time, the Cell also moved into the Canadian oil sands industry for the flotation of bitumen.\n\nFlotation is one of the unit processes used to separate the bituminous component of oil sands as part of the process of oil extraction. Some of the bitumen is not recovered in the primary separation vessel and reports to the tailings. These tailings are typically retreated in a scavenging operation to try to recover some of the remaining bitumen.\n\nThree industrial-size single downcomer Jameson Cells were sold by Xstrata Technology to Shell Canada in 2007 for a large scale pilot plant project and eight 500 mm downcomers were sold to Syncrude Limited in 2008. In the latter case, the downcomers were used to treat middlings in an existing tertiary oil recovery vessel in a bitumen recovery process patented by Syncrude.\n\nThe Mark IV Cell design was introduced in 2009. It included the following improvements:\n\nIn base and precious metals flotation, the Jameson Cell has established itself as being particularly useful in several applications in flotation circuits that also use other types of flotation cells, such as mechanical cells. These applications include:\n\n\nThe Jameson Cell has been found to be particularly effective in cleaning and recovering fine coal particles. For example, at BHP Coal's Goonyella mine (now part of the BHP Mitsubishi Alliance) eight Cells were installed to replace the entire 32 mechanical cell flotation circuit in 1995 in its 1800 t/h coal flotation plant. The result was an overall increase in yield for the plant of 3.5% (better than the predicted yield of 2.1% that was used to justify the project) and the production of a low-ash product.\n\nSince then, Jameson Cells have been installed in many coal preparation plants around the world, with the largest installation at the Curragh coal mine in Australia, where 12 Cells treat over 5 million t/y of coal fines.\n\nThe Cell can also be applied to coal preparation plant tailings to recover fine coal previously discarded.\n\nThe Jameson Cell is used to recover the organic solvent in solvent extraction – electrowinning plants from both the electrolyte and raffinate streams.\n\nContamination of the electrolyte increases operating costs and reduces the quality of the copper product. Any solvent remaining in the raffinate stream represents a loss of solvent and hence an increase in operating costs.\n\nMajor users of the Cell in SX–EW plants include Freeport McMoRan at its Morenci operations, BHP Billiton at its Olympic Dam operations and Grupo México at its Cananea and La Caridad operations. In all, Xstrata Technology reports 41 SX–EW applications.\n\nRecent developments in the Cell design for SX–EW applications include large, flat-bottomed cell design to allow it to sit on the ground and large (500 mm diameter) downcomers that can have multiple liquor (there being no slurry in SX–EW applications) lenses fitted to each downcomer.\n\nThe biggest operating Cell is at the Olympic Dam operations, treating 3000 m/h of raffinate.\n\nThe first potash application was in England in 1993, where Jameson Cells were used to treat potash slimes (see Potash flotation). It has subsequently been applied at Israel Chemicals Limited's Dead Sea Works and by an unnamed producer in the Saskatchewan province of Canada.\n\nThe Jameson Cell has been adopted by Shell Canada and Syncrude for floating bitumen in the oil sands industry (see Bitumen flotation). Syncrude bought an additional eight 500 mm downcomers for its plant in 2012.\n\nThe Jameson Cell can be used for the reverse flotation of silica from iron ore, where flotation columns have traditionally been used.\n\nPhosphate processing operations that use flotation as the principal mechanism to concentrate the phosphate-bearing minerals usually discard particles smaller than 20 µm in diameter. This is because the fine particles have had poor flotation performance and because their presence decreases the flotation performance of the coarse particles.\n\nLegend International Holdings Incorporated (\"Legend\") owns major phosphate deposits that average 20–60% particles less than 20 µm that contain up to 50% of the phosphate. This makes the traditional phosphate concentration practice uneconomic for these deposits. In response, Legend developed a process based on using the Jameson Cell in a rougher-scavenger-cleaner configuration to recover at least 80% of the phosphate at a grade of at least 32% PO from a feed with a particle size distribution of up to 80% less than 20 µm.\n\nThe Jameson Cell reportedly has the following advantages:\n"}
{"id": "434668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=434668", "title": "John Boyd Dunlop", "text": "John Boyd Dunlop\n\nJohn Boyd Dunlop (5 February 1840 – 23 October 1921) was a Scottish inventor and veterinary surgeon who spent most of his career in Ireland. Familiar with making rubber devices, he re-invented pneumatic tyres for his child's tricycle and developed them for use in cycle racing. He sold his rights to the pneumatic tyres to a company he formed with the president of the Irish Cyclists' Association, Harvey Du Cros, for a small cash sum and a small shareholding in their pneumatic tyre business. Dunlop withdrew in 1896. The company that bore his name, Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Company, was not incorporated until later using the name well known to the public, but it was Du Cros's creation.\n\nHe was born on a farm in Dreghorn, North Ayrshire, and studied to be a veterinary surgeon at the Dick Vet, University of Edinburgh, a profession he pursued for nearly ten years at home, moving to Downpatrick, Ireland in 1867. \n\nQuite early in his life he was told he had been a premature birth, two months before his mother had expected. He convinced himself his health was delicate and throughout his life acted accordingly, but he had no serious illness until he contracted a chill in October 1921 aged 81 and died unexpectedly. Sir Arthur Du Cros described him as a diffident and gentle-mannered man but confident in his abilities.\n\nHe married Margaret Stevenson in 1871 and they had a daughter and a son. He established Downe Veterinary Clinic in Downpatrick with his brother James Dunlop before moving to a practice in 38–42 May Street, Belfast where, by the mid 1880s, his was one of the largest practices in Ireland. \n\nDunlop developed pneumatic tyres for his son's tricycle and soon had them made commercially in Scotland. A cyclist using his tyres began to win all races and drew the attention of Harvey Du Cros. Dunlop sold his rights into a new business with Du Cros for some cash and a small shareholding. With Du Cros he overcame many difficulties experienced by their business, including the loss of his patent rights. In 1892 he retired from his veterinary practice and moved to Dublin soon after Harvey Du Cros with his assistance successfully refloated Booth Bros of Dublin as the Pneumatic Tyre and Booth's Cycle Agency. The pneumatic tyre revolutionised the bicycle industry, which had boomed after the 1885 introduction of J K Starley's safety bicycle.\n\nJ B Dunlop sold out in 1895 and took no further interest in the tyre or rubber business. His remaining business interest was a local drapery. \n\nIn October 1887, John Boyd Dunlop developed the first practical pneumatic or inflatable tyre for his son's tricycle and, using his knowledge and experience with rubber, in the yard of his home in Belfast fitted it to a wooden disc 96 centimetres across. The tyre was an inflated tube of sheet rubber. He then took his wheel and a metal wheel from his son's tricycle and rolled both across the yard together. The metal wheel stopped rolling but the pneumatic continued until it hit a gatepost and rebounded. Dunlop then put pneumatics on both rear wheels of the tricycle. That too rolled better, and Dunlop moved on to larger tyres for a bicycle \"with even more startling results.\" He tested that in Cherryvale sports ground, South Belfast, and a patent was granted on 7 December 1888. Unknown to Dunlop another Scot, Robert William Thomson from Stonehaven, had patented a pneumatic tyre in 1847. \n\nWillie Hume demonstrated the supremacy of Dunlop's tyres in 1889, winning the tyre's first-ever races in Ireland and then England. The captain of the Belfast Cruisers Cycling Club, he became the first member of the public to purchase a bicycle fitted with pneumatic tyres, so Dunlop suggested he should use them in a race. On 18 May 1889 Hume won all four cycling events at the Queen's College Sports in Belfast, and a short while later in Liverpool, won all but one of the cycling events. Among the losers were sons of the president of the Irish Cyclists' Association, Harvey Du Cros. Seeing an opportunity, Du Cros built a personal association with J B Dunlop, and together they set up a company which acquired his rights to his patent.\n\nTwo years after he was granted the patent, Dunlop was officially informed that it was invalid as Scottish inventor Robert William Thomson (1822–1873), had patented the idea in France in 1846 and in the US in 1847. (see Tyres.) To capitalise on pneumatic tyres for bicycles, Dunlop and Du Cros resuscitated a Dublin-listed company and renamed it Pneumatic Tyre and Booth's Cycle Agency. Dunlop retired in 1895. In 1896 Du Cros sold their whole bicycle tyre business to British financier Terah Hooley for £3 million. Hooley arranged some new window-dressing, titled board members, etc., and re-sold the company to the public for £5 million. Du Cros remained head of the business until his death. Early in the 20th century it was renamed Dunlop Rubber.\n\nThough he did not participate after 1895, Dunlop's pneumatic tyre did arrive at a crucial time in the development of road transport. His commercial production of cycle tyres began in late 1890 in Belfast, but the production of car tyres did not begin until 1900, well after his retirement. J B Dunlop did not make any great fortune by his invention.\n\nJohn Boyd Dunlop died at his home in Dublin's Ball's Bridge in 1921 and is buried in Deans Grange Cemetery.\n\nAlthough the Dunlop Pneumatic Tyre Company no longer exists as a corporate entity, the Dunlop name lives on in a number of Dunlop-branded products, including automotive, aerospatial, industrial and sporting products around the world. The Dunlop brand commonly appears as a corporate sponsor of international sporting events such as motor racing and tennis matches.\n\nFrom the 1980s, Dunlop was commemorated in Northern Ireland when his image featured on the £10 banknote issued by the Northern Bank as part of its Inventor Series. The notes have been re-issued several times, and the banknotes bearing Dunlop's likeness (now issued by the Danske Bank) are still in circulation today.\n\nIn 2005, Dunlop was inducted into the Automotive Hall of Fame.\n\nAn avenue in the city of Campinas, in southeast Brazil, is also named after him; that is because a Dunlop tyre factory was established there in 1953. \n\n"}
{"id": "2153119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2153119", "title": "Jonathan Brewster Bingham", "text": "Jonathan Brewster Bingham\n\nJonathan Brewster Bingham (April 24, 1914 – July 3, 1986) was an American politician and diplomat. He was the US delegate to the United Nations General Assemblies and was elected to Congress.\n\nBingham was born in New Haven, Connecticut. His father, Hiram Bingham III, was a Senator and explorer and his great grandfather, Hiram Bingham I, was a missionary, who helped translate the Bible into Hawaiian.\n\nBingham attended Hamden Hall Country Day School and Groton School and graduated from Yale University in 1936 with a BA and from Yale Law School in 1939 with a law degree. He was a member of Skull and Bones, class of 1936. In 1940 he was admitted to the bar, and began the practice of law in New York City. His practice was interrupted in August 1941, when he joined the Machinery Branch of the newly created Office of Price Administration (OPA) as a legal advisor. He was not at the OPA for long, for in 1942 he joined the Military Intelligence Service. In April of the following year he was enlisted as a private in the United States Army and was discharged a captain in October 1945 with a War Department citation.\n\nOn his return he was appointed chief of the newly created Alien Enemy Control Section of the State Department. The Alien Enemy Control Section was unpopular and short-lived. Bingham got off the boat before it sank, resuming the practice of law in New York City in 1946.\n\nHe left the practice of law again in 1951 to become assistant director of the Office of International Security Affairs. Bingham left in the same year to become deputy administrator of the Technical Cooperation Administration, implementing the Point 4 Program of technical assistance to developing countries. His book, \"Shirt-Sleeve Diplomacy: Point 4 in Action,\" was published in 1953. He left the administration in that year and resumed the practice of law. In 1955 he became secretary to fellow Bonesman, W. Averell Harriman, while he was Governor of New York. When Harriman was defeated in the 1958 election by Nelson Aldrich Rockefeller, Bingham joined the law firm Goldwater & Flynn.\n\nIn 1961 Bingham entered the world of diplomacy, as a United States representative on the United Nations Trusteeship Council with rank of Minister in 1961 and 1962, serving as President in 1962. During this period he was also principal adviser to the U.S. ambassador to U.N. on colonial and trusteeship questions. From 1963 to 1964 he was a United States representative on the United Nations Economic and Social Council with rank of Ambassador. He was also alternate representative to the 15th and 18th United Nations General Assemblies.\n\nIn 1964 he was elected to the House of Representatives from the 23rd District of New York, a district in the Bronx, at a time when elections in the Bronx were decided in the Democratic primaries in contests between \"regular\" or machine Democrats, and \"reform\" or challenger Democrats. Bingham defeated Charles Buckley, the leader of the Bronx \"regular\" Democrats and a powerful, senior committee chairman in Congress, in a re-match following Bingham's defeat in his first try against the incumbent Buckley in the 1962 Democratic primary.\n\nBingham represented the 23rd District from January 3, 1965 until January 3, 1973, when, as a result of redistricting following the 1970 census, he was elected to the House from the 22nd District of New York following a bruising primary with neighboring Democratic incumbent congressman James H. Scheuer. He served the 22nd District from January 3, 1973 until January 3, 1983, but did not pursue re-election when, in 1982, his district essentially disappeared as a result of yet another post-census redistricting. While in the House, Bingham served on the Foreign Affairs Committee, the Interior and Insular Affairs Committee and chaired the Subcommittee on International Economic Policy and Trade. He was particularly dedicated to nuclear non-proliferation and environmental protection.\n\nOn leaving congress he took up the practice of law as special counsel with Pryor, Cashman, Sherman & Flynn. He also lectured at Columbia University School of Law. During his lifetime Bingham contributed articles to various publications. He also authored Shirt Sleeve Diplomacy-Point 4 in Action (1954) and Violence and Democracy (1970). \n\nHe was a fellow of the Yale Corporation from 1949 to 1951, and served on its executive committee from 1951 to 1953. Bingham served on the board of directors of the People for the American Way, the United Nations Development Corporation, U.S. Committee for UNICEF and the Population Crisis Committee. He was a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Century Association. \n\nHe was married to June Rossbach (June 20, 1919 – August 21, 2007), an author' playwright, and member of the Lehman family (her great-grandfather was Mayer Lehman, one of the founders of the Lehman Brothers firm). They had four children: Sherrell Bingham Downes; Timothy Woodbridge Bingham; Claudia Bingham Meyers; and June Mitchell (Micki) Esselstyn (d. 1999).\n\nAfter Jonathan Bingham's death, Mrs. Bingham married Robert Birge and was then known as June Bingham Birge.\n\nBingham died from complications of pneumonia, aged 72, at the Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan on July 3, 1986. He was interred in Woodbridge Cemetery, in Salem, New London, Connecticut.\n"}
{"id": "40340538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40340538", "title": "Josef Sousedík", "text": "Josef Sousedík\n\nJosef Sousedík (18 December 1894 – 15 December 1944) was Czech inventor, industrialist and resistance fighter.\n\nJosef Sousedík grew up in a poor family in Vsetín in Czechoslovakia. After finishing elementary school he trained as an electrician. He fought in the Austria-Hungary army during World War I and participated in the Battle of Slovakia in 1918. He opened his own workshop in 1919, using his patents and inventions. The workshop expanded into a factory employing over 200 people by 1934. The factory went bankrupt in 1934 during the Great Depression and was bought by Ringhoffer-Tatra, which employed Sousedík as a CEO.\n\nHe was twice elected mayor of Vsetín from 1927–1938.\n\nSousedík was an anti-Nazi resistance leader during World War II, collaborating with the Clay Eva group and the 1st Czechoslovak Partisan Brigade of Jan Žižka. He was arrested in 1944 and shot dead after a fight during an interrogation. Sousedík was decorated with the Czechoslovak War Cross () in memoriam by Czechoslovak president Edvard Beneš.\n\nThe Communist dictatorship suppressed recognition of Sousedík's acts due to his collaboration with Western states and factory ownership.\n\nSousedík owned over 50 patents, mostly in the electrical field, such as an electrical rudder. His factory produced electrical parts for the ČSD Class M 290.0 and for the Tatra T86.\n"}
{"id": "51988079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51988079", "title": "List of Red Digital Cinema cameras", "text": "List of Red Digital Cinema cameras\n\nThe following provides a full list of cameras and notable accessories manufactured under the Red Digital Cinema Company brand.\n\nThe RED ONE was RED Digital Cinema’s first production camera. Using an S35mm image plane, the RED ONE displays a natural depth of field from 2K to over 4K resolutions.\n\nThe first RED ONEs were outfitted with the 12 megapixel MYSTERIUM sensor, capable of capturing up to 120 frames per second at 2K resolution and 30 frames per second at 4K resolution. The only possible acquisition format is REDCODE RAW.\nThe cameras were initially sold with a CF card slot that later could be replaced with a REDMAG module.\nThe second generation, RED ONE MYSTERIUM-X has a 14 megapixel MYSTERIUM-X sensor. It captures up to 120 frames per second at 2K resolution and up to 30 frames per second at 4K resolution. With the upgraded sensor, the RED ONE MYSTERIUM-X offers more dynamic range, higher sensitivity and enhanced color management tools than the RED ONE MYSTERIUM.\n\nDSMC cameras are modular and can be customized in various configurations. Several lens mounts can be attached to the camera. The only possible acquisition format is REDCODE RAW. Introduction of REDMAG SSDs, later RED MINI-MAGs.\nTouchscreen introduction.\n\nScarlet M-X\nSCARLET shoots regular speeds of up to 30fps at 4K and up to 120 fps at 2k. At 5K, it can't exceed 18fps.\n\nDSMC2 cameras are modular and can not be customised in various configurations. Several lens mounts can be attached to the camera. Differences to the former DSMC line are reduced size and weight, cable-less connections, as well as the addition of Apple ProRes and Avid DNx.\n\nUp to this point, RED deployed a tick tock strategy. Red stated sensors are their most important asset.\nThe Dragon sensor received a score of 101 DxO Mark sensor rating. This marked the first time a digital cinema camera was tested alongside leading stills cameras.The Red Dragon sensor is available within Epic and Scarlet camera systems.\nMono better spectral response and weaker OLPF.\n\nREDCODE RAW (.R3D) is a proprietary file format that employs wavelet compression to reduce the RAW data coming off the sensor. This allows reduced file sizes while still keeping all advantages of a non-destructive RAW workflow.\nIn the beginning REDCODE was a JPEG2000 12bit linear file stream with PCM sound without encryption. Several third party applications were able to read and convert to other file format such as Cineform RAW. Redcode started as having two different options, named Redcode 28 and Redcode 36, later a 42 option was added.\nWith the introduction of the DSMC line compression ratios were introduced, making\nFormlerly in 28Mbs now x:x\nffMpegasset.\n\nWith the DSMC line HDRx was introduced as extension to Frame Summing asset; allowing the shooter to get up to 6 extra stops of dynamic range on a shot.\n\nProprietary CF cards\n\nProprietary SSD\n\nProprietary SSD in sizes of 120GB, 240GB, 480GB and 960GB.\n\nCapture over LAN\n\nAnnounced at NAB 2013 and launched in 2014, The RCP Development Kit is a SDK (software development kit) that allows programmers to create custom applications to control their camera via mobile device, computer, or micro-controller. The kit included the RCP Bridge, a wireless module that allows apps to communicate with the camera. The bridge supports a wireless communication range of approximately 50 feet.\n\nREDCINE-X PRO is a free-of-charge post-processing software collection developed by RED, built specifically for RED camera systems. It includes a coloring toolset, integrated timeline, and post effects software collection for both stills and motion. The post-production software allows for non-destructive manipulation of raw .R3D files.REDCINE-X was the first workflow software developed solely by Red. Like REDCINE, RED offered it as an end-to-end workflow solution for Red customers. It preceded the current REDCINE-X PRO.\n\nWith REDCINE-X PRO, users can mark frames while shooting and access those specific frames within their timeline. Additionally, there are features like A.D.D. (Advanced DRAGON Debayer), a new algorithm for Dragon that analyzes every pixel, plus grading and RAW adjustment options.\n\n\"RED Alert!\" was the first form of workflow made available to RED owners/operators, though it was more of a diagnostic tool. It allowed RED ONE users to tweak debayer settings and render out to dpx/tiff/mov.\n\nREDCINE was the first end-to-end workflow for RED users. A third-party company developed the software, and RED provided the SDK.\n\nRed Rocket is an internal PCI Express card that is capable of 4K, 2K, or 1080p real-time debayering and video playback of R3D files coming from Mysterium and Mysterium-X sensors. It can be used to accelerate video editing in compatible Non-linear editing systems, outputting the image via HD-SDI to a user-supplied monitor. A component of the Red Rocket allows users to convert the HD-SDI signal to four HDMI outputs.\n\nRED ROCKET-X is an internal PCI Express card optimized for the 6K RED DRAGON sensor and is designed to accelerate the processing of R3D workflow, regardless of resolution. Compared to RED ROCKET, RED ROCKET-X processes and transcodes files up to five times faster.\n\nDebayering subpar asset.\n\nRED offers the RED Apple Workflow Installer, which allows R3D RAW settings within Final Cut Pro X. Other applications include support for QuickTime to use .R3D files, and plugins for Adobe Photoshop, Adobe Premiere Pro, Avid Media Composer, Final Cut Pro X, and Sony Vegas Pro.\n\nThe RED 3-Axis lens control system is a turn-key wireless lens control kit for driving focus, iris and zoom. Included is the T.H.C. (Tactical Hand Controller), a wireless remote that allows the operator to adjust lens settings from a distance.\n"}
{"id": "11239351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11239351", "title": "Manuel Ayau", "text": "Manuel Ayau\n\nManuel Francisco Ayau Cordón (December 27, 1925 – August 4, 2010) was the Founder of the Universidad Francisco Marroquín in Guatemala, a leading private University in Latin America. He was born in Guatemala City, on December 27, 1925. After diverse studies, he obtained a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Louisiana State University in 1950, an L.H.D. from Hillsdale College in 1973, and an honorary degree in law (Legum Doctor) from Northwood University in 1994.\n\nHis many entrepreneurial activities include that of CEO of \"Samboro, S.A.\", a company dedicated to the production of ceramic tiles; and of directing a group of Guatemalan industrialists for over forty years in the production of industrial gases and hydro-electric energy. Dr. Ayau has also served on the board of directors of several different companies, including IBM in Latin America and the Guatemalan local stock and debt exchange, of which he was founding President.\n\nIn 1959 he also founded the Center for Economic and Social Studies (CEES) in Guatemala, to analyze the fundaments and philosophy of free society. In 1972 he was instrumental in founding the Francisco Marroquín University, of which he was the first President until 1988.\n\nA member of the Mont Pelerin Society since 1964, he was its President from 1978 to 1980. He was on the board of directors of the Liberty Fund in Indianapolis and he was also a trustee of the Foundation for Economic Education in New York. He was also a member of the Philadelphia Society.\n\nIn Guatemala, Dr. Ayau entered politics as a member of congress from 1970 to 1974, and as presidential candidate in the 1990 elections.\n\nTwice he has formed part of the Central Bank council and has been president of two different commercial banks, Vice-President of the National Electrification Institute (INDE), trustee of the Philadelphia Society, and Honorary Member of the engineering society \"Tau Beta Pi\".\n\nHis last contribution to Guatemala was as President of Asociacion Civil proReforma del Estado de Guatemala.\n\nIn 2004 he was awarded by the Mont Pelerin Society for his contributions to freedom. Manuel Ayau obtained the Adam Smith Award, from the Association of Private Enterprise Education in 2005. He obtained the Juan de Mariana Award, from the Instituto Juan de Mariana, in Spain, in 2008. That year, at the Universidad Peruana de Ciencias Applicadas, he was appointed Honorary Professor.\n\nAmong his most important works are \"Como Mejorar el Nivel de Vida\", \"De Robinson a Viernes\", \"El Comercio\", \"La Década Perdida\", \"El Proceso Económico\", \"No Tenemos que Seguir Siendo Pobres para Siempre\" and \"Un Juego que no suma cero\". He has been published widely in Guatemala and Latin America, as well as in the US, including in \"Vision\", \"The Wall Street Journal\", and \"The Freeman\".\n\nLiberty Fund podcast from 2001, [A Conversation with Manuel Ayau] https://web.archive.org/web/20090404041107/http://65.203.85.21/Home3/Audio.php?recordID=0517.06\n\nConference by Dr. Manuel F. Ayau, Lic. Juan Carlos Simons, Lic. Alejandro Baldizón, Licda. Carroll Ríos de Rodríguez., \"\"Without a Solid and Strong State of Rights We will Never Build a Prosperous Nation\"\" at Francisco Marroquin University. Guatemala, December 2007\n\n"}
{"id": "24729757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24729757", "title": "Megdet Rahimkulov", "text": "Megdet Rahimkulov\n\nMihail Rahimkulov (, also known as Megdet Rahimkulov, 16 October 1945, Moscow) is a Russian-born Hungarian businessman of Tatar origin. He was a Gazprom executive and also the former head of Panrusgaz and Általános Értékforgalmi Bank. He is the 1,468th on the Forbes world's billionaires list. He is the wealthiest person in Hungary and a leading owner of OTP Bank.\n\nHis assets are now managed by a holding company in Cyprus.\n\nRahimkulov received his first higher education at the All-Union Correspondence Financial and Economic Institute. He graduated in 1973. In 1978, Rahimkulov earned a second diploma from the State University of Management in Moscow.\n\nIn 1971, Rahimkulov, still a student, took a job at the USSR Ministry of the Gas Industry.\n\nAfter graduating from State University of Management, Rahimkulov became deputy head of Soyuzgazavtomatiki, a Mingazprom enterprise. From 1989 to 1992, he was the general director of Gazexport. In 1992, Rahimkulov was appointed General Director of OOO Interpromkom (InterProm), a company that supplied IT equipment to Gazprom.\n\nRahimkulov became a Chief Executive and 10% owner of a Gazprom and MOL joint venture in the mid 1990s. MOL is a Hungarian multinational oil and gas company. When Gazprom acquired AEB, a Hungarian bank, Rahimkulov maintained a 6% direct holding in the bank until 2011. Rahimkulov and his sons, Ruslan and Timur, sold their entire share of MOL to VCP Capital Partners Unternehmensberatung AG in September of 2011.\n\nRahimkulov bought shares in OTP, a leading Hungarian bank, with the proceeds from the MOL sale. As of September 2017, he and his sons own 24,186,511 shares in OTP, giving them 8.64% ownership of the company.\n\n"}
{"id": "27262340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27262340", "title": "Michael Hill (entrepreneur)", "text": "Michael Hill (entrepreneur)\n\nSir Richard Michael Hill (born 23 December 1938) is a New Zealand jeweller, entrepreneur and philanthropist who founded global jewellery retailer Michael Hill Jeweller in 1979. He retired as the company's chairman in November 2015. He currently resides in Arrowtown and was Ernst & Young's 2008 Entrepreneur of the Year in New Zealand.\n\nBorn in Whangarei on 23 December 1938, Hill was educated at Whangarei Boys' High School from 1949 to 1954. Hill recalls being bullied, stating that he \"hated” his time at school. He left school at 16 to pursue a career as a concert violinist but a year later was told he would have had to start much younger in life to be a noteworthy musician. Hill abandoned his hopes of a career in music and started working for his uncle, Arthur Fisher, at the family jewellery store. He performed well as a salesman and window dresser, winning international awards for his efforts in the latter. He later took over the store's newspaper and radio advertising, drawing attention to the business with bizarre themes for the advertisements, and was later promoted to manager.\n\nIn the spring of 1964, while working in the store, Hill met Christine Roe, an Englishwoman who taught art at a local high school. They married in March 1965 and had two children, Mark (born 1969) and Emma (born 1971).\n\nOn 1 October 1977, the house that had taken them four years to build was destroyed in a fire.\n\nFollowing this setback, Hill re-assessed his life. With the help of a friend, he tried to buy his uncle's business, but the uncle refused to sell. On 13 May 1979, Hill opened his own jewellery store nearby, calling it Michael Hill Jeweller. One of his main points of difference was to limit his store's product range to jewellery items, dispensing with silverware, clocks, porcelain and glassware commonly found in other jewellery stores at the time.\n\nHill had set himself a goal of \"seven stores in seven years\", and in 1986 he exceeded that, opening his eighth store in Newmarket. On 9 June 1987, Hill floated Michael Hill Jeweller on the New Zealand Stock Exchange, raising enough capital to expand the business locally and into the Australian market, where the company opened four stores in Brisbane later that year. In 1988, Hill set himself and his company another goal: \"70 shops in seven years\". This goal was also achieved. In 2002, the goal of opening 1000 stores by 2022 was established by Hill, with the further aim of taking the brand global. During that same year, the company opened its first three stores in Canada, and by the end of 2009 the company had 242 stores in Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the United States.\n\nHill's daughter, Emma Hill, succeeded him as chairman after the November 2015 annual general meeting.\n\nAlthough he didn't become a concert violinist, Hill has maintained a strong love for the violin his entire life and continues to play. In 2001 he founded the biennial Michael Hill International Violin Competition \"for emerging young violinists\". The winner of the competition receives a substantial cash prize, a recording deal for international distribution and a \"Winner's Tour\" in which the competition winner performs in concert halls around New Zealand and Australia in the calendar year following the competition.\n\nAfter buying a run-down farm in Arrowtown, Hill's interest in golf grew to the point where he built his own 18-hole golf course called The Hills on the property. Built into the course is a unique two-thirds underground clubhouse designed by Auckland architect Andrew Patterson and his company, Patterson Associates. The clubhouse won the New Zealand Institute of Architects Supreme Architectural Award in 2008 and was a finalist in the World Architecture Festival in 2008 in Barcelona.\n\nThe course is notable for the sculpture which makes much of the course into an open-air gallery. Giant sculptures dot the course, many of them the work of Hill's son, sculptor Mark Hill. These works complement Michael Hill's own impressive collection of art.\n\nHill had \"The Wolves are Coming\" by Chinese sculptor Liu Ruo Wang installed. Originally on display at 798 Art Zone in Beijing, the 110 larger-than-life wolf figurines were placed at the golf course in October 2012 on a site chosen by the artist, and not at the site prepared by Hill's staff. At the centre of the installation is a sword-wielding warrior; this piece alone weighs .\n\nThe 2007, 2009 and 2010 New Zealand Open golf tournaments were held at The Hills.\n\nIn April 2007, Hill launched the VvS1, a 112-foot super yacht built for luxury charters in the South Pacific. Designed by Hill and his wife, Christine, the vessel won three awards in the 2008 World Yacht Awards in Cannes: Best Motor Yacht, Best Interior and Best Functionality.\n\nHill has had three books published about succeeding in business. The books use stories from his own life to illustrate his points about achieving success.\n\n\nHill was awarded the New Zealand 1990 Commemoration Medal. In the 2002 New Year Honours Hill was appointed a Companion of the New Zealand Order of Merit for services to business and the arts. He was promoted to Knight Companion of the same order in the 2011 New Year Honours, also for services to business and the arts.\n\nHill received Ernst & Young New Zealand's Entrepreneur of the Year award in 2008. The awards \"acknowledge the accomplishments of entrepreneurs and celebrate the contribution they are making to New Zealand's economy and society\".\n\n"}
{"id": "502294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=502294", "title": "Nicky Hilton Rothschild", "text": "Nicky Hilton Rothschild\n\nNicholai Olivia Rothschild (née Hilton; born October 5, 1983) is an American businesswoman, socialite, model and fashion designer. She is a member of the Hilton family by birth, and a member of the Rothschild family through her marriage to James Rothschild, a grandson of Victor Rothschild, 3rd Baron Rothschild, in 2015.\n\nHilton was born in New York City and raised in Los Angeles. She is the daughter of Richard Hilton, a hotel heir of the Hilton family who works as a businessman in real estate and Kathy Hilton (née Avanzino), a former actress and half sister of Kim and Kyle Richards. Hilton was named for her great-uncle, Conrad Nicholson Hilton, Jr. She is the second of four children: she has an older sister, Paris Whitney Hilton (born 1981), and two younger brothers, Barron Nicholas Hilton II (born 1989) and Conrad Hughes Hilton III (born 1994).\n\nHilton was raised Roman Catholic. She has Norwegian, German, Italian, English, Irish, and Scottish ancestry. Hilton graduated from Convent of the Sacred Heart, an all-girls Catholic school on the Upper East Side, in 2001. She took courses at Fashion Institute of Technology and Parsons The New School for Design but does not have a degree.\n\nIn 2004, Hilton launched her own clothing line. She also designed a line of handbags for Japanese company Samantha Thavasa. In 2007, she started her second line, Nicholai, at a higher price point. Nicholai held its fashion show for the spring/summer 2008 season on September 9, 2007, in New York City during Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week. In 2014, Hilton launched a 10-piece collection with eLuxe. She designed each piece as a reflection of her personal style and named all products for the women in her family, who embody the style of each piece.\n\nIn 2010, Hilton launched a line of jewelry. The pieces are fashion jewelry and in an Art Deco style, averaging around $200 per piece.\n\nIn 2015, she launched a capsule collection of handbags as part of a collaboration with Linea Pelle. Hilton said she was approached by Linea Pelle \"to make a capsule collection and I really wanted to have it be classic. As in I didn't want to make these super trendy bags that would be out of style next season.\"\n\nIn August 2017, Hilton announced her collaboration with Tolani for a Mommy and Me capsule collection. The collection launched in stores in spring 2018. \n\nIn 2005, Hilton was the face of Australian underwear line Antz Pantz alongside Kimberly Stewart. Stewart remains contracted, but Hilton has been replaced by Australian model Megan Maitland. Around this time, Hilton modeled for the cover of \"Lucire\" for its New Zealand and Romanian editions.\n\nIn 2006, she entered a partnership to open two Nicky O Hotels, the first in Miami and the second in Chicago. That same year, Hilton sued her partner in Federal Court in Los Angeles for damages and to seek an injunction against his use of the name. On February 12, 2007, Hilton was sued for breach of contract by her partners.\n\nIn 2014, Hilton published her first book, \"365 Style.\" According to the author, the book \"offers a simple method that helps girls identify the staple pieces that work best for their lifestyle, encourages them to stay true to their own tastes, and most importantly shows them how to have fun with fashion every day of the year.\" \"365 Style\" was published by Harlequin, a subsidiary of HarperCollins.\n\nIn 2015, Hilton collaborated with Smashbox, the cosmetic brand owned by Estée Lauder Companies, to create a cosmetic line consisting of three limited-edition cat-inspired makeup kits (one for each of her favorite cities: New York City, Los Angeles and London).\n\nShe has supported a range of charitable organizations, including Starlight Children's Foundation, Make-a-wish Foundation, Race to Erase MS and Union Rescue Mission.\n\nAt 2:30 a.m. on August 15, 2004, Hilton married childhood friend and businessman Todd Meister at the Vegas Wedding Chapel in Las Vegas, Nevada. The marriage was annulled less than three months later, with Hilton and Meister explaining they traveled apart often and had married \"on a whim\".\n\nIn 2011, Hilton began dating financier James Rothschild (born 1985), a member of the Rothschild family and only son of Amschel Rothschild, after being introduced at James Stunt and Petra Ecclestone's wedding. On August 12, 2014, while on vacation at Lake Como in Italy, Hilton became engaged to Rothschild. \n\nOn July 10, 2015, the couple married at The Orangery in Kensington Palace Gardens in London, England. Hilton wore a $77,000 Valentino Haute Couture gown. Her sister, Paris, served as maid of honor. The couple honeymooned in Botswana. They have two daughters: Lily Grace Victoria (born July 2016) and Teddy Marilyn (born December 2017).\n\n"}
{"id": "8831073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8831073", "title": "Owner earnings", "text": "Owner earnings\n\nOwner earnings is a valuation method detailed by Warren Buffett in 1986. He stated that the value of a company is simply the total of the net cash flows (owner earnings) expected to occur over the life of the business, minus any reinvestment of earnings.\n\nBuffett defined owner earnings as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43782998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43782998", "title": "Peeter Rebane", "text": "Peeter Rebane\n\nPeeter Rebane (born 24 April 1973) is an Estonian film director, producer and entrepreneur.\n\nHe studied at Oxford University and graduated from Harvard University \"cum laude\" majoring in economics, psychology and visual arts. He has studied directing and film production at the University of Southern California, School of Cinematic Arts and has further trained at Judith Weston Studio For Actors And Directors. He is a co-founder of the film production company \"The Factory\". In 2013, he was named Ernst & Young's Entrepreneur of the Year in Estonia.\n\nRebane's directing portfolio includes feature films Firebird (2017), Sailing to Freedom (in development), documentaries Tashi Delek (2015), and Robbie Williams: Fans Journey to Tallinn (2014) and numerous music videos including for Moby's \"Wait for Me\", Pet Shop Boys' \"Together\", The Heft's \"Born to Live\", Liisi Koikson's \"Üle Vee\" and Daniel Lévi's \"Summer Love\". Together with Russell Thomas, Rebane directed and produced the concert film Robbie Williams: Live in Tallinn (2013).\n\nRebane was the producer of the 2002 Eurovision Song Contest, producer of the 23rd European Film Awards (2010), one of the initiators of the European Capital of Culture 2011 project and producer of the 20th anniversary concert of Estonia's re-independence for the President of Estonia.\nBDG, founded by Rebane (and his brother, Priit), has produced hundreds of major events and concerts in the Baltic region.\n\nRebane is a Member of Advisory Board of the World Memory Film Project, has been a Member of the Board of Estonian Concert Promoters Association (2001-2011) and the President of Harvard Club of the Baltics (2004-2009). Rebane is openly gay and is a civil rights activist who champions equal rights legislation of the LGBT community in Estonia.\n\nFrom 2006 to 2016 he belonged to the Estonian Center Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "17686161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17686161", "title": "Robert L. Flood", "text": "Robert L. Flood\n\nRobert Louis (Bob) Flood (born 1955) is British organizational scientist, former Professor of Management Sciences at the University of Hull, specialized in applied systemic thinking, particularly in the areas of strategic management, organizational behavior and organizational improvement.\n\nBorn in London in February 1955, Robert Flood received a first class B.A. in Systems and Management in 1983 at City University and his PhD in Philosophy in Systems Science at City University in 1985. In 1997 he was awarded a Doctor of Science from Hull University for his sustained and authoritative contribution to the field of systems science.\n\nPrior to university Flood worked several years in the film business in the management of Paramount Pictures, in the health service for the Berkshire Area Health Authority, and at National Opinion Polls in London. In 1989 he was appointed Professor of Systems Science at the Hull University, and currently is Professor of Action Research at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology in Trondheim. Flood has practiced as an independent action researcher since leaving Hull University in 1997.\nFlood is founding and current editor of the international journal \"Systemic Practice and Action Research\" and is also associate editor of the \"Systems Research and Behavioral Science\" journal. He also has been a Fellow of the Institute of Measurement and Control and was a registered Chartered Engineer.\n\nFlood was a nominee for the 'MCA (Management Consultants Association) 1993 Management Book of the Year Award' for Beyond TQM.\n\nFlood has authored and co-authored a dozen books and more than 100 articles. A selection: \n\nMore recent well-cited articles include:\n"}
{"id": "4158153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4158153", "title": "Round-tripping (finance)", "text": "Round-tripping (finance)\n\nRound-tripping, also known as round-trip transactions or \"Lazy Susans\", is defined by \"The Wall Street Journal\" as a form of barter that involves a company selling \"an unused asset to another company, while at the same time agreeing to buy back the same or similar assets at about the same price.\" Swapping assets on a round-trip produces no net economic substance, but may be fraudulently reported as a series of productive sales and beneficial purchases on the books of the companies involved, violating the substance over form accounting principle. The companies appear to be growing and very \"busy\", but the round-tripping \"business\" does not generate profits. Growth is an attractive factor to speculative investors, even if profits are lacking; such investment benefits companies and motivates them to undertake the illusory growth of round-tripping.\n\nRound trips are characteristic of the New Economy companies. They played a crucial part in temporarily inflating the market capitalization of energy traders such as Enron, CMS Energy, Reliant Energy, and Dynegy. \n\nIn international scenarios, round tripping is used for tax evasion and money laundering as well.\n\nOther companies making unconventional round-tripping deals include AOL with Sun Microsystems and Global Crossing with Qwest Communications. It is alleged that when some telecommunications companies swapped capacity, they booked the value of the incoming capacity as revenue and the value of the outgoing capacity as an investment. These transactions had the effect of inflating profits. The SEC ruled that booking revenues from swaps in telecommunications capacity was improper.\n\nMany such companies have used round-tripping to distort the market by establishing false revenue benchmarks, aiming to meet or beat the numbers put out by Wall Street stock analysts. As a result of abusive round trips, barter between publicly held companies has become discredited among professional investors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54258157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54258157", "title": "Sally Jacobsen", "text": "Sally Jacobsen\n\nSally Jacobsen (June 12, 1946 – May 12, 2017) was an American journalist, foreign correspondent and editor whose career spanned 39-years at the \"Associated Press\". In 1999, Jacobsen became the first woman to serve as the international editor for the AP, where she oversaw the news agency's overseas news bureaus. During her tenure as international editor, Jacobson supervised the AP's foreign coverage on the United States invasion of Afghanistan in 2001 and the 2003 war in Iraq. She was later promoted to AP deputy managing editor for operations and projects, where she edited the AP Stylebook.\n\nJacobsen grew up in Gunnison, Colorado. She received her bachelor's degree from Iowa State University and a master's degree in economics from Cornell University. \n\nJacobsen retired from the \"Associated Press\" in 2015 and resided in Croton-on-Hudson, New York. She died from cancer at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Sleepy Hollow, New York, on May 12, 2017, at the age of 70. Jacobsen was survived by her husband, Patrick Oster, a novelist and retired managing editor for Bloomberg News; their son, Alex; and two Airedale terriers, Tazz and Gemma. \n"}
{"id": "566975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=566975", "title": "Sanofi", "text": "Sanofi\n\nSanofi S.A. is a French multinational pharmaceutical company headquartered in Paris, France, as of 2013 the world's fifth-largest by prescription sales. The company was formed as Sanofi-Aventis in 2004 by the merger of Aventis and Sanofi-Synthélabo, which were each the product of several previous mergers. It changed its name to Sanofi in May 2011. The company is a component of the Euro Stoxx 50 stock market index.\n\nSanofi engages in the research and development, manufacturing and marketing of pharmaceutical drugs principally in the prescription market, but the firm also develops over-the-counter medication. The company covers seven major therapeutic areas: cardiovascular, central nervous system, diabetes, internal medicine, oncology, thrombosis and vaccines (it is the world's largest producer of the latter through its subsidiary Sanofi Pasteur).\n\nSanofi was founded in 1973 as a subsidiary of Elf Aquitaine (a French oil company subsequently acquired by Total), when Elf Aquitaine took control of the Labaz group, a pharmaceutical company. In 1993 Sanofi made a move into the Eastern Europe market by acquiring a controlling interest in Chinoin, a Hungarian drug company that had about US$104 million in sales in 1992. In that same year, Sanofi's made its first significant venture into the U.S., and strengthened its presence in Eastern Europe, by first partnering with Sterling Winthrop and then acquiring the prescription pharmaceuticals business in 1994. Sanofi was incorporated under the laws of France in 1994 as a \"société anonyme\", a form of limited liability company.\n\nSynthélabo was founded in 1970 through the merger of two French pharmaceutical laboratories, Laboratoires Dausse (founded in 1834) and Laboratoires Robert & Carrière (founded in 1899). In 1973, the French cosmetics group L’Oréal acquired the majority of its share capital. In 1991, Synthelabo acquired Laboratories Delalande and Laboratoires Delagrange, and through this deal picked up the product metoclopramide.\n\nSanofi-Synthélabo was formed in 1999 when Sanofi merged with Synthélabo; at the time of the merger Sanofi was the second largest pharmaceutical group in France in terms of sales and Synthélabo was the third largest. The merged company was based in Paris, France.\n\nThe merged companies focused on pharmaceuticals, divesting several businesses soon after the merger, including beauty, diagnostics, animal health and nutrition, custom chemicals, and two medical equipment businesses.\n\nAventis was formed in 1999 when French company Rhône-Poulenc S.A. merged with the German corporation Hoechst Marion Roussel, which itself was formed from the 1995 merger of Hoechst AG with Cassella, Roussel Uclaf and Marion Merrell Dow. The merged company was based in Schiltigheim, near Strasbourg, France.\n\nAt the time of the merger, Rhône-Poulenc's business included the pharmaceutical businesses Rorer, Centeon (blood products), and Pasteur Merieux (vaccines), the plant and animal health businesses Rhône-Poulenc Agro, Rhône-Poulenc Animal Nutrition, and Merial, and a 67 percent share in Rhodia, a speciality chemicals company. Hoechst, one of the companies resulting from the post-WWII split of IG Farben, had seven primary businesses: Hoechst Marion Roussel (pharmaceuticals), AgrEvo (a joint venture with Schering in crop protection agents and pest control products), HR Vet (veterinary products), Dade Behring (diagnostics), Centeon, Celanese (chemicals), and Messer (chemicals). Merieux has been in the business of selling blood products, and In the 1980s during the , Merieux and other companies were involved in scandals related to HIV-contaminated haemophilia blood products that were sold to developing nations.\n\nIn mid 2000 Aventis and Millennium Pharmaceuticals, a US biotechnology company formed to discover new drugs based on the then-new science of genomics, announced that Aventis would make a $250M investment in Millennium and would pay $200M to Millennium in research fees over five years, one of the largest such deals between a big pharmaceutical company and a biotech company at the time.\n\nIn late 2000, in the midst of the recall of Starlink, its genetically modified maize product, Aventis announced that it had determined to sell off Aventis Cropscience, the seed and pesticide business unit it had created from the agriculture businesses of its predecessors. In October 2001, Bayer and Aventis announced that Bayer would acquire the unit for about $6.6 billion, with the unit becoming Bayer CropScience and making Bayer the world's second-largest agrochemical company behind Syngenta.\n\nIn 2003 Aventis entered into a collaboration with Regeneron, a New York biotechnology company, to develop Regeneron's VEGF-inhibiting drug, aflibercept, in the field of cancer, which was then in Phase I clinical trials. Aventis invested $45 million in Regeneron and made an upfront payment of $80 million in cash. Regeneron partnered the drug with Bayer Healthcare in the field of proliferative eye diseases, and under the name Eylea it was approved by the FDA in 2011; after several setbacks in clinical trials, Regeneron and Sanofi got the drug approved in metastatic colorectal cancer in combination with other agents, under the brand name ZALTRAP in 2012.\n\nSanofi-Aventis was formed in 2004 when Sanofi-Synthélabo acquired Aventis. In early 2004, Sanofi-Synthélabo made a hostile takeover bid worth €47.8 billion for Aventis. Initially, Aventis rejected the bid because it felt that the bid offered inferior value based on the company's share value, and the board of Aventis went so far as to enact poison pill provisions and to invite Novartis to enter merger negotiations. The three-month takeover battle concluded when Sanofi-Synthélabo launched a friendly bid of €54.5 billion in place of the previously rejected hostile bid. The French government played a strong role, desiring what it called a \"local solution\", by putting heavy pressure on Sanofi-Synthélabo to raise its bid for Aventis and for Aventis to accept the offer and by rejecting Aventis' poison pill proposal. One of the largest risks in the deal for both sides, was the fate of the patents protecting Clopidogrel (Plavix) which was one of the top-selling drugs in the world at the time and the major source of Sanofi's revenue.\n\nIn 2006, Iraqis infected with HIV sued Sanofi and Baxter due to HIV-contaminated haemophilia blood products sold by Merieux in the 1980s. In 2006 the US patents on clopidogrel (Plavix) were challenged when a Canadian generics company, Apotex, filed an Abbreviated New Drug Application under the Hatch-Waxman Act, received FDA approval, and started marketing a generic clopidogrel. While Sanofi-Aventis and its partner on the drug, Bristol Myers Squibb (BMS), were able to get an injunction to stop Apotex from selling the drug, the case became complicated when settlement negotiations fell apart twice - the second time due to an oral agreement made by BMS CEO Peter Dolan that BMS failed to disclose to the Federal Trade Commission during the review of the settlement agreement to ensure that it did not violate antitrust law. When Apotex disclosed the oral agreement to the FTC, the FTC launched an investigation that led to Dolan being fired by BMS. Apotex finally lost on the patent litigation issues after its third appeal was decided in favor of BMS/Sanofi in November 2011; Apotex had to pay ~$442 million in damages and ~$108 million in interest for infringing the patent, which it paid in full by February 2012. Apotex also sued BMS and Sanofi for $3.4 billion for allegedly breaching the settlement agreement, and Apotex lost a jury trial in March 2013.\n\nIn 2007 Sanofi-Aventis expanded on Aventis' prior relationship with Regeneron; in the new deal Sanofi-Aventis agreed to pay Regeneron $100 million each year for five years, under which Regeneron would use its monoclonal antibody discovery platform to create new biopharmaceuticals, which Sanofi-Aventis gained the exclusive right to co-develop. In 2009 the companies expanded the deal to $160 million per year and extended it through 2017. As of 2009 the collaboration had four antibodies in clinical development and had filed an IND for a fifth. Two were against undisclosed targets, one targeted the interleukin-6 receptor as a treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, another targeted nerve growth factor for the treatment of pain, and another targeted delta-like ligand 4 as a treatment of cancer.\n\nBetween 2008, when Chris Viebacher was hired as CEO, and 2010, the company spent more than $17 billion in mergers and acquisitions to strengthen its consumer healthcare and generics platforms, especially in emerging markets, in the face of looming patent cliffs and the growth of the consumer healthcare segment. In September, Zentiva was acquired for €1.8 billion, expanding the group's eastern European markets presence.\n\nIn 2009, Medley Farma, the third largest pharmaceutical company in Brazil and a leading generics company in that country, was acquired for about $635 million. Sanofi outbid Teva Pharmaceuticals. The deal was approved by Brazil's antitrust authorities in May 2010. Later that year, Indian vaccine manufacturer Shantha Biotechnics was acquired for $784 million. In October Sanofi-Aventis announced that it would lay off about 1,700 US employees (about 25% of its US workforce) due to restructuring triggered by growing generic competition and other factors, and that the company would focus its US operations on diabetes, atrial fibrillation and oncology.\n\nIn 2010 U.S. consumer healthcare company Chattem, Inc. was acquired for around $1.9 billion. In the same year, Nepentes Pharma was acquired for $130 million and BMP Sunstone Corporation for $520.6 million.\n\nThe company dropped the -Aventis suffix of its name on 6 May 2011 after receiving approval at its annual general meeting. The reason given by the company for the change was to make its name easier to pronounce in countries such as China.\n\nIn 2011 Genzyme Corporation was acquired for around $20.1 billion. This biotechnology company headquartered in Cambridge, Massachusetts specializes in the treatment of orphan diseases, renal diseases, endocrinology, oncology and biosurgery.\n\nIn January 2012, Sanofi co-invested in the $125 million Series A financing of Warp Drive Bio. Sanofi sought support for its internal cancer research program and also took on an obligation to acquire Warp Drive if certain milestones were met.\n\nIn January 2014, Genzyme and Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, a US biotechnology company developing RNAi therapeutics, announced that Genyzme would invest $700 million in Alnylam. Under the deal, Genzyme obtained further rights to patisiran, an RNAi treatment for transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis - a condition that can result in familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy and familial amyloidotic cardiomyopathy - and obtained rights to other compounds in Alnylam's pipeline.\n\nIn March 2014 Sanofi joined the bidding for Merck & Co.’s over-the-counter health-products unit, the maker of Coppertone sunblock and Claritin allergy medicine; bids were expected to range between $10 billion and $12 billion.\n\nIn October 2014, Sanofi's directors fired US-resident chief executive Chris Viehbacher, blaming his alleged lack of communication with the board and poor execution of his strategy. Board chairperson Serge Weinberg took over as interim CEO until 2 April 2015 when Bayer Healthcare board chairperson Olivier Brandicourt (appointed by Sanofi on 19 February 2015) took over. Before Brandicourt even started his new job, French government ministers Stéphane Le Foll and Ségolène Royal attacked the $4.5 million golden handshake he was getting from Sanofi - and his pay of about $4.7 million a year. Further, in 2014, the business took a 66% stake in Globalpharma, Dubai-based generics manufacturer.\n\nIn July 2015, Genzyme announced it would acquire the rare cancer drug Caprelsa (vandetanib) from AstraZeneca for up to $300 million. In the same month In July 2015, the company announced a new global collaboration with Regeneron to discover, develop, and commercialise new immuno-oncology drugs, which could generate more than $2 billion for Regeneron, with $640 million upfront, $750 million for proof of concept data and $650 million from the development of REGN2810.\n\nIn June 2016, the company announced it had struck an asset-swap deal with Boehringer Ingelheim, Sanofi would sell its Merial animal health division (valuing it at €11.4 billion), whilst acquiring Boehringers consumer health division (valuing it at €6.7 billion) and €4.7 billion in cash. The deal means Sanofi is now one of the global consumer healthcare leaders by market share.\n\nIn July 2017, the company announced its intention to acquire Protein Sciences, a privately held, Connecticut-based vaccines biotechnology company, for $650 million and with up to $100 million in milestone achievements.\n\nIn January 2018, Sanofi announced that it would acquire Bioverativ for $11.6 billion and days later announced it would acquire Ablynx for €3.9 billion ($4.8 billion).\n\nThe following is an illustration of the company's major mergers, acquisitions and historical predecessors:\n\n\nProduct recall and effects: The Epinephrine auto-injection devices made by Sanofi SA currently on the market in the U.S. and Canada were voluntarily recalled on 28 October 2015. The reason stated by Sanofi was that the products have been found to potentially have inaccurate dosage delivery, which may include failure to deliver drug.\n\nSanofi US also added the following warning: If a patient experiencing a serious allergic reaction (i.e., anaphylaxis) did not receive the intended dose, there could be significant health consequences, including death because anaphylaxis is a potentially life‑threatening condition.\n\nIn its news release on 28 October 2015, Sanofi Canada stated that it was \"actively working with suppliers of alternative epinephrine auto-injectors to have a full stock available in Canada as soon as possible. Canadian customers were asked to immediately return the Allerject product to their local pharmacy to obtain an alternate epinephrine auto-injector.\"\n\nThe U.S. Food and Drug Administration also filed a news release confirming that the recall involves all Auvi-Q currently on the market in the U.S. The FDA release went on to provide information for consumers re: exchanging the device for another brand of product, also provided on the Auivi-Q web site. Sanofi US will provide reimbursement for out of pocket costs incurred for the purchase of new, alternate epinephrine auto-injectors with proof of purchase.\n\nThe alternate products expected to most commonly replace the recalled Sanofi devices are the EpiPens made by Mylan in the US and by Pfizer—under license from Mylan—in Canada. Mylan already had an 85% market share of the auto-injectors in the US in the first half of 2015. Maylan was expected to benefit from the recall by its competitor Sanofi, according to a report published in the Fierce Pharma newsletter of 2 November 2015: \"...it is very hard to see Auvi-Q returning to the market, as it will need to be redesigned and face uphill battle to recapture patient trust after the recall,\" Bernstein analyst Ronny Gal wrote in a note to clients. Gal also believes that the company will eventually have 95% of the Epinephrine auto-injector market, according to another Fierce Pharma report on 3 November 2015.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe company also produces a broad range of over-the-counter products, among them Allegra, IcyHot for muscle pain, Gold Bond for skin irritation, and Selsun Blue dandruff shampoo. These brands were acquired in 2010 when Sanofi-Aventis purchased Chattem.\n\nAs of the summer of 2013, Sanofi was in a race with Amgen and Pfizer to win approval for a drug that inhibits PCSK9, a protein that slows the clearance of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol - the form of cholesterol that leads to heart attacks. Sanofi's drug was discovered by Regeneron and is called alirocumab. An FDA warning in March 2014 about possible cognitive adverse effects of PCSK9 inhibition threw the competition into disarray, as the FDA asked companies to include neurocognitive testing into their Phase III clinical trials.\n\nIn fall 2013 Sanofi announced that another candidate from its collaboration with Regeneron, the monoclonal antibody against the interleukin 6 receptor, sarilumab, had better efficacy than placebo in its first Phase III trial for rheumatoid arthritis.\n\n\nAs of 31 December 2013:\n\nIn January 2012, Sanofi moved its head office location to 54, Rue La Boétie in the 8th arrondissement of Paris. This former mansion designed by architect René-Patouillard had previously been the head office of Alcatel-Lucent.\n\nSanofi's previous head office was located in the 13th arrondissement of Paris, 174 Avenue de France. The architecture of the head office is of the predominant style of the area surrounding the François Mitterrand Library. After Sanofi and Aventis merged, the employees at the former Aventis head office in Schiltigheim, Alsace moved to Paris.\n\nIn addition to internal research and development activities Sanofi is also involved in publicly funded collaborative research projects, with other industrial and academic partners. One example in the area of non-clinical safety assessment is the InnoMed PredTox project The company is expanding its activities in joint research projects within the framework of the Innovative Medicines Initiative of EFPIA and the European Commission.\n\nIn June 2010, Sanofi and the Charite University of Berlin signed a cooperation agreement for the research and development of medicines and therapies.\n\nOn 25 October 2012, Sanofi said its earnings for the third quarter slumped as generic competitors ate into profits of its Eloxatin cancer treatment.\n\nIn 2005 Sanofi Pasteur, vaccines division of Sanofi Group, was awarded a $97 Million HHS contract in 2005.\n\nIn the fall of 2011 a Sanofi Pasteur plant flooded, causing it problems with mold. The facility, located in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, produced BCG vaccine products, made with the Glaxo 1077 strain, such as a tuberculosis vaccine ImmuCYST, a BCG Immunotherapeutic -a bladder cancer drug. By April 2012 the FDA had found dozens of documented problems with sterility at the plant including mold, nesting birds and rusted electrical conduits. The resulting closure of the plant for over two years resulting in shortages of bladder cancer and tuberculosis vaccines. The Toronto Sanofi plant On 29 October 2014 Health Canada gave the permission for Sanofi to resume production of BCG.\n\nSanofi is a full member of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO), and Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA).\n\nSanofi's vaccine subsidiary, Sanofi Pasteur, is a member of EuropaBio.\n\nThe Aventis Foundation, a German charitable trust, was established in 1996 as the Hoechst Foundation with an endowment of €50 million. In 2000, the foundation was renamed the Aventis Foundation. Its aim is to promote music, theater, art, literature, higher education and healthcare research.\n\n"}
{"id": "558039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=558039", "title": "Simpay", "text": "Simpay\n\nSimPay was a consortium which was founded to promote mobile payment in 2003 but which was closed as of June 2005. Simpay started in Spain by a number of mobile phone companies to build a open, interoperable solution, but was abandoned when key members pulled out in 2005.\n\nIn February 2003, T-Mobile, Orange, Telefónica and Vodafone formed a new Mobile Payment Services Association (MPSA) with the goal to deliver an open, interoperable and commonly branded solution for payments via mobile phones, designed to work across all operator networks. In June 2003 the consortium re-branded itself as SimPay.\n\nIn February 2005, Amena and Proximus joined the consortium.\n\nSimpay planned to create a pan-European framework whereby merchants and content resellers would be able to charge for products and services directly to a subscriber's bill.\n\nIn June 2005, Simpay decided, \"following the decision of one of its founding Members not to launch Simpay for the foreseeable future, [...] not to pursue its activity on a pan-European scale as originally planned.\" All activities were put on hold effective June 24, 2005.\n\nThe UK Simpay founders started work in 2005 on a project called \"Payforit\" which was launched in 2007 to provide similar services in the UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "30247354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30247354", "title": "St. Joseph Chapel (New York City)", "text": "St. Joseph Chapel (New York City)\n\nSt. Joseph's Chapel is a mission parish of St. Peter's Church, the oldest Catholic parish in New York State. Established in 1983, it is located at 385 South End Avenue, Manhattan, New York City.\n\nSt. Joseph's traces its origin to Maronite Catholics who held services in a lower church at St. Peter's on Barclay Street from 1899 to 1906, when they built their own church on Washington Street. In 1904, the Maronite community also established the Roman Catholic Church of Our Lady of Lebanon in Brooklyn.\n\nIn 1946, the City of New York took title to the Washington Street property in connection with the construction of the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel. Saint Joseph’s Church moved to 157 Cedar Street next to the St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church. The new location was heavily remodeled including the removal of the top two floors and in use by May 1949. In 1969 the Saint Joseph’s Church property was sold to the Archdiocese of New York, but later the property was taken again by eminent domain, in anticipation of the construction of a building at the World Trade Center, which was never actually built. In 1983, St Joseph’s moved to Battery Park City at 385 South End Avenue and affiliated with St Peter’s Church. The Cedar Street location was razed and turned into parking. After the September 11 attacks, in 2002, the cornerstone was discovered in the World Trade Center rubble. It is currently on display at Our Lady of Lebanon Maronite Cathedral in Brooklyn.\n\nThe chapel survived the September 11th Attacks and sheltered its inhabitants from harm from the disaster a mere one and a half blocks away. After the attacks, rescue and emergency staff removed the pews and operated the chapel as a command station. The chapel was renovated in 2002 after the events of 9/11 and reopened on September 11, 2002. It was rededicated by Archbishop Edward Cardinal Egan as a Catholic September 11 Memorial on May 22, 2005.\n\nIn 2017, St. Joseph's Chapel was threatened with closure due to the St. Peter's parish's reluctance or inability to pay a tripling of its rent by a management company run by LeFrak corporation and partners.\n\nIn November 2017, an announcement was made from St. Peter's that despite the community's efforts to achieve a better solution, St. Joseph's Chapel would indeed close in January 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "18724655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18724655", "title": "Stalking horse offer", "text": "Stalking horse offer\n\nA stalking horse offer, agreement, or bid is an attempt by a bankrupt debtor to test the market for the debtor's assets in advance of an auction of them. The intent is to maximize the value of its assets or avoid low bids, as part of (or before) a court auction.\n\nWhile entering a stalking horse offer, the debtor can offer bidding protections such as breakup fees to its best bidder before the auction. These incentives enhance the value of the offering for the bidder which might lead to a better price offer before the auction begins. This higher offer is now the starting offer for the auction and may result in benefiting the debtor and its estate.\n\nOn October 22, 2007, technology company SCO asked a bankruptcy court to approve a deal whereby a purchaser would acquire \"substantially all assets used by the Company in connection with its SCO UNIX Business and certain related claims in litigation.\" The agreement included a \"stalking horse\" provision: If the purchaser, York Capital Management, were to be designated as a stalking horse in subsequent bidding for SCO's assets, and if others outbid York, then SCO would have to pay York a $780,000 breakup fee and reimbursement of all expenses incurred by York up to $300,000. In this way, York would earn its expenses and $780,000 by acting as the stalking horse and preventing other bidders from making lowball offers.\n\nOn August 4, 2008, Steve and Barry's LLC, a retailer of casual apparel, filed a stalking horse agreement with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. Their partner in this asset purchase agreement was BH S&B Holding LLC, a subsidiary of Bay Harbor Management.\n\nOn July 27, 2009, \"The Wall Street Journal\" reported that Telefon AB L.M. Ericsson had won a stalking horse bid to acquire Nortel Networks Corp's CDMA division, for $1.13 billion. \n\nOn July 8, 2010, the Texas Rangers Major League Baseball team announced a potential stalking horse deal. \"'An auction with a stalking horse, or minimum, bid is more frequently used than a so-called “naked” auction without a floor price,' William K. Snyder, the court-appointed restructuring officer, said. 'Moreover, the stalking horse bidder commonly receives a “reasonable” break-up fee if unsuccessful in the auction,' said Snyder. Under the scrapped plan, the $304 million in cash portion of the Greenberg-Ryan group’s May 24 deal with owner Tom Hicks would serve as a minimum bid, with the next bid at least $20 million higher. Greenberg-Ryan would have received $15 million if it lost.\" \n\nOn February 21, 2011, \"Reuters\" reported Blockbuster's intention to pursue a $290 million stalking horse offer with Cobalt Video Holdco. \n\nOn April 4, 2011, \"TechCrunch\" reported Google's intention to pursue a $900 million stalking horse bid for Nortel's patents.\n\nIn 2013, Hostess Brands used a stalking horse auction to sell off its assets in bankruptcy.\n\nOn October 17, 2013, Designline, now known as Environmental Performance Vehicles the Charlotte, NC bus manufacturer, used the technique but received no offers. \n\nOn April 15, 2013, Eastman Kodak proposed a stalking horse deal of $210 million whereby Brother Industries would acquire Kodak's Document Imaging division ahead of Kodak's bankruptcy court approval slated for June 2013.\n\nOn June 10, 2016, Ziff Davis proposed a stalking-horse bid of under US$90 million after Gawker Media announced it was filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.\n\n"}
{"id": "9947487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9947487", "title": "Sulaiman Hamad Al Gosaibi", "text": "Sulaiman Hamad Al Gosaibi\n\nSulaiman Hamad Al Gosaibi was Chairman of the Board of the Ahmad Hamad Al Gosaibi & Brothers Group of Companies based in Alkhobar, Saudi Arabia until his death in February 2009. \n\nInheriting a small but growing trading company from their father, Sulaiman was the youngest of three brothers who built a diversified business group with interests across the commercial spectrum, keeping pace with the Kingdom's petroleum fueled growth. Sulaiman was, until his death, the sole surviving brother and patriarch of the family conglomerate that was once considered among Saudi Arabia's most formidable merchant empires. He was its largest shareholder though management of the Group has been primarily delegated to the hands of his nephews, Yousef Ahmad Al Gosaibi (Group President) and Saud Abdul Aziz Al Gosaibi (Group Managing Director). His son, Dawood Sulaiman Al Gosaibi, is also active in family investments.\n\n"}
{"id": "20086394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20086394", "title": "Surangel S. Whipps", "text": "Surangel S. Whipps\n\nSurangel S. Whipps is a Palauan businessman and politician. He served as the president of the Senate of Palau from 2007 to 2009, and as the speaker of the House of Delegates of Palau from 1993 to 1996. He is from Airai. His net worth as of January 2018 is around $450 million US dollars.\n\nHe graduated from University of Baltimore in 1971 and returned to Palau in 1972.\n\nIn January 2008, Whipps proposed a bill requiring the minimum wage to apply not just to Palauans, but to non-resident workers as well. It was reasoned that this would help more Palauans to become employed, due to the increased cost of hiring non-resident workers. \n"}
{"id": "17642740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17642740", "title": "Tadich Grill", "text": "Tadich Grill\n\nThe Tadich Grill is a seafood restaurant located in the Financial District neighborhood of San Francisco, California, United States. It is the oldest continuously running restaurant in San Francisco, having opened in 1849 as a coffee stand. In the 1920s, the Tadich Grill claimed to be the first American restaurant to grill seafood over mesquite charcoal, a traditional Croat method.\n\nThe original restaurant opened in 1849 as a coffee stand on Clay Street in San Francisco. In 1887, John Tadich from Stari Grad (island of Hvar, Croatia) purchased and renamed the restaurant after his surname. In 1928 the Buich family bought the restaurant from Tadich; they continue to own the restaurant today. In 1967 the restaurant moved to its present location at 240 California Street; this was after Wells Fargo bought the Clay Street location for redevelopment. The current space is one-third larger than the original, and the Buiches worked with contractors to recreate the Art Deco interior design that the Clay Street space had. All of the moldings and woodwork were copied, and the original Clay Street bar was moved to the present location. The restaurant reopened within one month of moving.\n\nIn 1925, Louis Buich advised that the chefs use a mesquite broiler for cooking fish. A native of Croatia, Buich was familiar with the technique, as it was a traditional Croatian style. The Tadich's use of grilling became popular, and in a single day the restaurant can go through four 40-pound bags of mesquite charcoal. Little has changed in regards to the restaurant's cooking techniques, and the restaurant has only had seven chefs since 1925 (as of 2011).\n\nToday, the menu focuses on seafood, stews, and casserole. Ingredients are locally sourced, including seafood such as Dungeness crab and sand dab. The restaurant also offers a day-of-the-week menu, which has remained unchanged for many years. Items on the day-of-the-week menu include lamb roast on Mondays, beef tongue on Tuesdays, and corned beef and cabbage on Thursdays. Oysters are also a major feature on the menu and most, if not all, menu items are prepared in restaurant. Prawns are the only frozen fish at the restaurant, and the Tadich actively avoids selling fish that is overfished, limiting sales of fish such as sea bass.\n\nWaiters wear white jackets and black pants and the restaurant does not take reservations. On busy days, the Tadich can see between 600-800 patrons waiting in line to dine at the restaurant. On average, the restaurant serves 700 meals a day.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51733402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51733402", "title": "Tom Hurst (politician)", "text": "Tom Hurst (politician)\n\nTom Hurst (born February 10, 1966) is an American politician. He is a member of the Missouri House of Representatives, having served since 2013. He is a member of the Republican Party.\n\nHurst graduated from the University of Missouri in 1988 with a bachelor's degree in accounting. He has been an accountant at Hurst Tax and Accounting since 1994.\n"}
{"id": "55380112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55380112", "title": "Triple helix model of innovation", "text": "Triple helix model of innovation\n\nThe triple helix model of innovation refers to a set of interactions between academia, industry and governments, to foster economic and social development. This framework was first theorized by Henry Etzkowitz and Loet Leydesdorff in the 1990s, with the publication of “The Triple Helix, University-Industry-Government Relations: A laboratory for Knowledge-Based Economic Development”. Interactions between universities, industries and governments have given rise to new intermediary institutions, such as technology transfer offices and science parks. The triple helix also participated in the transformation of each institution.\n\nThe triple helix model of innovation, as theorized by Etzkowitz and Leydesdorff, is based on the interactions between the three following elements and their associated ‘initial role’: universities engaging in basic research, industries producing commercial goods and governments that are regulating markets. As interactions increase within this framework, each component evolves to adopt some characteristics of the other institution, which then gives rise to hybrid institutions. Bilateral interactions exist between university, industry and government.\n\nEtzkowitz and Leydesdorff argue that the initial role of universities is to provide education to individuals and basic research. Therefore, interactions between university and industry revolve initially around those two elements. In a linear model of innovation, universities are supposed to provide the research on which industry will build upon to produce commercial goods. The other interactions take place through the involvement of industry managers and university faculty in both sectors. According to Etzkowitz, the transfer of people between university and industry constitutes a very important transfer of knowledge. This can be a permanent move in one direction or the other, or in other cases, entire careers spent between the two spheres. He gives the example of Carl Djerassi, a research director for a pharmaceutical company who joined Stanford University while continuing his industrial activity.\n\nHowever, other scholars have pointed out that consulting activities of faculty members could also have drawbacks, like a reduced focus on educating the students, and potential conflict of interests relating to the use of university resources for the benefit of industry. Additional transfer of knowledge between university and industry happens through informal communication, conferences or industrial interest in university publications. Another type of interaction, for example, is the creation of co-op programs like the MIT-General Electric course which aims at integrating an industry approach into the students' curricula.\n\nThe strength of the interactions between the government and universities depends on the government’s general relationship to and policy towards higher education. Etzkowitz and Leydesdorff's model uses a spectrum to define the extent of these interactions. On the one hand, when higher education is largely public, as in continental western Europe, the government has a higher influence on universities and the research they conduct by being the main source of funding. On the other hand of the spectrum, typically associated with the United States, universities have a higher degree of independence from government influence although they also receive funding. However, the two ends of this spectrum are used as ideal-types that are not necessarily reflective of the reality. The changing circumstances can push the government to create closer ties with academia, for example in wartime, and/or through funding of strategic disciplines, like physics. For example, in the United States, the Department of Defense has extensively funded physics research during World War II and the Cold War. Another example of state involvement in higher education is the establishment of new universities, as through the Morrill Land-Grant Acts of 1862 encouraging the creation of land-grant colleges. Cornell University, the University of Florida and Purdue University are three of the seventy-six institutions created under the land-grant.\n\nThe relationship between governments and industry depends on the government’s attitude towards the market. In liberal economies the role of the government will be limited to preventing market failures. On the other hand, where the government is more involved in the economy, the government’s role is the regulation of the industry. These are also two ends of a spectrum, leaving room for substantial variation, based on circumstances and disciplines. For example, as pointed out by Bhaven Sampat, in the 1960s, the government created a regulation to prevent patenting by or licensing to industry of university research funded by the National Institutes of Health. One key role of the government in its interaction with industry is the establishment of intellectual property law and its enforcement.\n\nEtzkowitz and Leydesdorff initially argued that the strength of the interactions between governments, industry and university depends on which component is the driving force in the framework. In a statist model, a strong state is driving interactions between the three components in a top-down implementation. It creates stronger ties and a more integrated model. In a laissez-faire model, in which the industry and market forces are the leading forces, the ties are weaker and each institution tends to remain very independent. However, the distinction between the two models is not always clear cut, as the government can choose to adopt a strong or a weak stance depending on the context and the industry. In a recent paper, Etzkowitz emphasized that the shift towards a knowledge-based society has given a bigger role to universities. Indeed, as innovation is increasingly based on scientific knowledge, the role of universities as creators of knowledge is more valued. As a result, he argues that university, industry and government are more equal, and that no particular element is necessarily the driving force of the triple helix model of innovation.\n\nThe triple helix model of innovation also blurred the boundaries of the traditional basic roles of university, industry and government. According to Etzkowitz and Leydesdorff, this marks the second step in the triple helix of innovation framework. For example, universities increasingly take part in commercial activity through patenting and licensing, moving beyond the production of basic research. The next step is the emergence of intermediaries between the three elements as well as the hybridization of the three entities. Nevertheless, each entity retains a strong primacy in its original field of expertise: the university remains the main source of knowledge production, industry is the primary vehicle of commercialization and the government retains its regulatory role.\n\nTechnology transfer offices have been established by universities to foster the transformation of university basic or applied research with a commercial value into commercial goods. One of the aims of TTOs is to create some revenues for the university, thus enhancing its role as an economic actor. However, the average profitability of TTOs remains very low. For example, the revenues earned through the licensing of patents by TTOs in American universities are, on average, ten times larger than for European TTOs according to the Innovation Policy Platform. Science parks have also emerged as the result of the collaboration of industries and universities with the government. They can stem from the initiative of an industrial region to modernize itself with the impulse of a university. On the other hand, they can be the result of a university initiative to attract industry, as was the case with the development of Stanford's science park around the university or the Research Triangle in North Carolina.\n\nThe 'entrepreneurial university' is another hybrid element which Etzkowitz defines around the following elements : the capitalization of knowledge, strong ties with industry and governments, a high degree of independence, and permanent evolution of the relationships between universities, industry and government. Etzkowitz recognizes MIT as a great example of an 'entrepreneurial university’.\n\nBuilding on the triple helix model, the quadruple helix model adds a fourth component to the framework of interactions between university, industry and government: civil society and the media. It was first suggested by Elias G. Carayannis and David F.J. Campbell in \"‘Mode 3’ and ‘Quadruple Helix’: toward a 21st century fractal innovation ecosystem\". The aim is to bridge the gaps between innovation and civil society. Indeed, this framework claims that under the triple helix model, the emerging technologies do not always match the demands and needs of society, thus limiting their potential impact. This framework emphasizes a societal responsibility of universities, in addition to their role of educating and conduction research. This is the approach that the European Union has intended to take for the development of a competitive knowledge-based society. The quadruple helix model has been argued to include both the civil society and the users of innovation. How to define this fourth helix has been debated according to Högluind and Linton (2018) and some researchers see it as an additional helix while some see it as a different type of helix which is overarching all the other helices. \n\nThe triple helix model has been used as a lens through which evolving relationships between university, industry and government can be analyzed. But according to Etzkowitz and Leydesdorff, it can also be a policy making tool. For example, Etzkowitz argues that after the end of the Soviet Era, triple helix inspired policies were implemented in Eastern Europe to promote their growth. In Sweden, the triple helix policy aimed at tying together innovation initiatives at different scales to increase their overall efficiency. They emphasize the relevance of implementing the triple helix model for developing countries and regions.\n\nThe triple helix model as a policy-making tool for economic growth and regional development has been criticized by many scholars. One main criticism is that Etzkowitz and Leydesdorff’s framework was developed within Western developed countries, which means that it is based on a particular set of infrastructures and under circumstances. For instance, the model take for granted that knowledge intensive activities are linked to economic growth, that intellectual property rights will be protected, and that the state has a democratic and market oriented culture. Therefore, according to critics, the triple helix model is not a relevant policy making tool for developing countries where at least one of these conditions is missing. Further scholarly criticism of the model focuses on the conditions that enable the implementation of a triple helix innovation policy. It argues that Etzkowitz and Leydesdorff’s model is too vague and take for granted those necessary preconditions within their model.\n"}
{"id": "3840475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3840475", "title": "William Heinecke", "text": "William Heinecke\n\nWilliam Ellwood Heinecke (; born 1949) is an American-born Thai businessman. He is the CEO and Chairman of Minor Corporation, the CEO and Chairman of Minor International, and Chairman of Minor Food Group.\n\nHeinecke moved to Bangkok in 1963 at age 14 with his family, having previously lived in Japan, Hong Kong and Malaysia. Heinecke's father spent 25 years in the United States military, serving in World War II and the Korean War. When he retired, he joined the foreign service. His mother was an Asia correspondent for \"Time\" magazine. Heinecke studied at the International School Bangkok, and persuaded the editor of the now defunct Bangkok World to let him write a weekly column on go-carting. In return, he received advertising space alongside it.\n\nAt age 17, while still a high school student, Heinecke took over from the Bangkok World's advertising manager. One year later, he founded Inter-Asian Enterprise, to supply office cleaning services, and Inter-Asian Publicity, a radio advertising company, using US$1,200 he had borrowed. He later sold Inter-Asia Publicity to Ogilvy & Mather. In 1967, he founded Minor Holdings, which would over the next four decades would grow into The Minor Group, including more than 30 companies..\n\nHeinecke had his first hotel venture in 1978, the Royal Garden Resort in Pattaya. His business ventures have included advertising agencies and other hotels in Bangkok, Hua Hin, Phuket, Chiang Mai, Chiang Rai as well as outside of Thailand. He also introduced American-style fast foods to Thailand in the late 1970s and 1980s – brands like Mister Donut, The Pizza Company and Burger King. Heinecke naturalized as a Thai citizen in 1991, renouncing United States citizenship in the process. He was the president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Thailand and sat on the Prime Minister’s Foreign Investment Advisory Council. He is a supporter of the Thai Elephant Conservation Centre, and authored \"The Entrepreneur\", which has been translated into a number of languages.\n\nMinor International Plc is one of the largest hospitality and leisure companies in the Asia Pacific region. The company's hotels and resorts are operated under the Four Seasons, Marriott Resort & Spa, Anantara and other brands in Thailand, Vietnam, the Maldives, the Middle East and Indonesia, and its spa brands like Mandara and Anantara have consistently been named among the best in the world. Minor Corporation manufactures and markets fashion, cosmetics and leisure brands, while Minor International currently operates 16 hotels and resorts and more than 630 branded food service outlets across Asia and the Middle East.\n\nIn 2013, Heinecke received the ABLF Trailblazer Award from the Asian Business Leadership Forum (ABLF) Awards held in Dubai, UAE managed by Indian Expressions.\n\n"}
{"id": "15621319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15621319", "title": "William Henry Peter Barber", "text": "William Henry Peter Barber\n\nWilliam Henry Peter Barber (10 September 1857 – 15 January 1943) was a New Zealand Member of Parliament for Newtown in Wellington.\n\nBorn in Wellington in 1857, Barber was educated at St Peter's School. He began work in his father's dyeing firm of Barber and Company, and eventually became its head. He married Emily Clarke, of Somerset, England in 1879, and had three sons and two daughters.\n\nWilliam Barber represented the Wellington electorate of Newtown for the whole of its existence, from 1902 to 1908. In 1908 he was defeated for the reconstituted electorate of Wellington South.\n\nBarber was associated with the New Liberal Party. His favourite idea was one shared by the other New Liberals-that the institutions of local government should be strengthened and given more scope and power. He heartily supported Harry Ell's 1904 Municipal Corporations Bill, which provided for borough councils to hold referenda.\n\nBarber also advocated state fire insurance, state coal mines, and the old radical favourite, reduction of taxes on the necessities of life. However, he did not favour the elective executive.\n\nHe served as a director of the Wellington Woollen Company (chairman at the time of his death), and chairman of directors of the Wellington Opera House Company. He was elected to the Wellington City Council in 1891 and served as a councilor for 26 years. He contested the 1905 Wellington City mayoral election and came second, beaten by Thomas William Hislop. He was a member of the Hutt Valley Electric Power Board (retired 1933); director of Wellington Deposit and Mortgage Company; chairman of the Wellington College Board of Governors (1924–31) and a member of the Kauri Timber Royal Commission.\n\nIn 1935, he was awarded the King George V Silver Jubilee Medal.\n\nBarber died in Wellington on 15 January 1943, and was buried at Karori Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
