{"id": "3239188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3239188", "title": "ARINC 429", "text": "ARINC 429\n\nARINC 429, \"Mark33 Digital Information Transfer System (DITS),\" is also known as the Aeronautical Radio INC. (ARINC) technical standard for the predominant avionics data bus used on most higher-end commercial and transport aircraft. It defines the physical and electrical interfaces of a two-wire data bus and a data protocol to support an aircraft's avionics local area network.\n\nARINC 429 is a data transfer standard for aircraft avionics. It uses a self-clocking, self-synchronizing data bus protocol (Tx and Rx are on separate ports). The physical connection wires are twisted pairs carrying balanced differential signaling. Data words are 32 bits in length and most messages consist of a single data word. Messages are transmitted at either 12.5 or 100 kbit/s to other system elements that are monitoring the bus messages. The transmitter constantly transmits either 32-bit data words or the NULL state (0 Volts). A single wire pair is limited to one transmitter and no more than 20 receivers. The protocol allows for self-clocking at the receiver end, thus eliminating the need to transmit clocking data. ARINC 429 is an alternative to MIL-STD-1553.\n\nThe ARINC 429 unit of transmission is a fixed-length 32-bit frame, which the standard refers to as a 'word'. The bits within an ARINC 429 word are serially identified from Bit Number 1 to Bit Number 32 or simply Bit 1 to Bit 32. The fields and data structures of the ARINC 429 word are defined in terms of this numbering.\n\nWhile it is common to illustrate serial protocol frames progressing in time from right to left, a reversed ordering is commonly practiced within the ARINC standard. Even though ARINC 429 word transmission begins with Bit 1 and ends with Bit 32, it is common to diagram and describe ARINC 429 words in the order from Bit 32 to Bit 1. \nIn simplest terms, while the transmission order of bits (from the first transmitted bit to the last transmitted bit) for a 32-bit frame is conventionally diagrammed as\nthis sequence is often diagrammed in ARINC 429 publications in the opposite direction as\nWhen the ARINC 429 word format is illustrated with Bit 32 to the left, the numeric representations in the data field generally read with the Most significant bit on the left. However, in this particular bit order presentation, the Label field reads with its most significant bit on the right. Like CAN Protocol Identifier Fields, ARINC 429 \"label fields\" are transmitted most significant bit first. However, like UART Protocol, Binary-coded decimal numbers and binary numbers in the ARINC 429 \"data fields\" are generally transmitted least significant bit first.\n\nSome equipment suppliers publish the bit transmission order as \nThe suppliers that use this representation have in effect renumbered the bits in the Label field, converting the standard’s MSB 1 bit numbering for that field to LSB 1 bit numbering. This renumbering highlights the relative reversal of \"bit endianness\" between the Label representation and numeric data representations as defined within the ARINC 429 standard. Observe how the \"87654321\" bit numbering is similar to the \"76543210\" bit numbering common in digital equipment; but reversed from the \"12345678\" bit numbering defined for the ARINC 429 Label field.\n\nThis notional reversal also reflects historical implementation details. ARINC 429 transceivers have been implemented with 32-bit shift registers. Parallel access to that shift register is often octet-oriented. As such, the bit order of the octet access is the bit order of the accessing device, which is usually LSB 0; and serial transmission is arranged such that the least significant bit of each octet is transmitted first. So, in common practice, the accessing device wrote or read a \"reversed label\" (for example, to transmit a Label 213 [or 8B] the bit-reversed value D1 is written to the Label octet). Newer or \"enhanced\" transceivers may be configured to reverse the Label field bit order \"in hardware.\"\n\nEach ARINC 429 word is a 32-bit sequence that contains five fields:\n\nThe image below exemplifies many of the concepts explained in the adjacent sections. In this image the Label (260) appears in red, the Data in blue-green and the Parity bit in navy blue.\n\nLabel guidelines are provided as part of the ARINC 429 specification, for various equipment types. Each aircraft will contain a number of different systems, such as flight management computers, inertial reference systems, air data computers, radar altimeters, radios, and GPS sensors. For each type of equipment, a set of standard parameters is defined, which is common across all manufacturers and models. For example, any air data computer will provide the barometric altitude of the aircraft as label 203. This allows some degree of interchangeability of parts, as all air data computers behave, for the most part, in the same way. There are only a limited number of labels, though, and so label 203 may have some completely different meaning if sent by a GPS sensor, for example. Very commonly needed aircraft parameters, however, use the same label regardless of source. Also, as with any specification, each manufacturer has slight differences from the formal specification, such as by providing extra data above and beyond the specification, leaving out some data recommended by the specification, or other various changes.\n\nAvionics systems are required to meet environmental requirements, usually stated as RTCA DO-160 environmental categories. ARINC 429 employs several physical, electrical, and protocol techniques to minimize electromagnetic interference with on-board radios and other equipment, for example via other transmission cables.\n\nIts cabling is a shielded 78 Ω twisted-pair. ARINC signalling defines a 20Vp differential between the Data A and Data B levels within the bipolar transmission (i.e. 10V on Data A and -10V on Data B would constitute a valid driving signal), and the specification defines acceptable voltage rise and fall times.\n\nARINC 429's data encoding uses a complementary differential bipolar return-to-zero (BPRZ) transmission waveform, further reducing EMI emissions from the cable itself.\n\nWhen developing and/or troubleshooting the ARINC 429 bus, examination of hardware signals can be very important to find problems. A protocol analyzer is useful to collect, analyze, decode and store signals.\n\n"}
{"id": "16872621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16872621", "title": "ARPA Host Name Server Protocol", "text": "ARPA Host Name Server Protocol\n\nThe ARPA Host Name Server Protocol (NAMESERVER), is an obsolete network protocol used in translating a host name to an Internet address. IANA Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and User Datagram Protocol (UDP) port 42 for NAMESERVER; this port is more commonly used by the Windows Internet Name Service (WINS) on Microsoft operating systems.\n\nThe NAMESERVER protocol is used by the DARPA Trivial Name Server, a server process called tnamed that is provided in some implementations of UNIX.\n\nSupport for the NAMESERVER protocol has been deprecated, and may not be available in the latest implementations of all UNIX operating systems. The Domain Name System (DNS) has replaced the ARPA Host Name Server Protocol and the DARPA Trivial Name Server.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3897369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3897369", "title": "Allport's Scale", "text": "Allport's Scale\n\nAllport's Scale is a measure of the manifestation of prejudice in a society. It is also referred to as Allport's Scale of Prejudice and Discrimination or Allport's Scale of Prejudice. It was devised by psychologist Gordon Allport in 1954.\n\nAllport's Scale of Prejudice goes from 1 to 5.\n\n\nThis scale should not be confused with the Religious Orientation Scale of Allport and Ross (1967), which is a measure of the maturity of an individual's religious conviction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45563796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45563796", "title": "AthenaPlus", "text": "AthenaPlus\n\nAthenaPlus is a CIP best practice network started in March 2013 which aims to facilitate access to networks of cultural heritage, enrich metadata, as well as improve search, retrieval and re-use of Europeana’s content by enhancing multilingual terminology management and the export/publication tool. By the end of the project, AthenaPlus will contribute more than 3.6 millions of metadata records to Europeana, from both public and private sectors, focusing mainly on museums content. In addition to enabling access to cultural heritage, AthenaPlus is also focused on creative use of content, and adapting data to users with different needs by means of tools that support the development of virtual exhibitions, tourist and didactic applications.\n\nMOVIO is an open source CMS, a kit of tools, developed within the AthenaPlus project, which enables web content creation. MOVIO has a semantic approach; it can be defined as a SCMS (Semantic Content Management System) as well. It enables building online digital exhibitions targeted to different audiences and aims to enable long term accessibility to the mass of knowledge generated by temporary exhibitions that, for their nature, have a limited life span. The content is shaped using different tools integrated in the software: media archive, ontology builder, storyteller, different types of image galleries, hotspots, maps, timeline, etc. The project was initiated by the Central Institute for the Union Catalogue of the Italian Libraries (ICCU), a body of the Ministry, developed by GruppoMeta, and owing to a grant of the Fondazione Telecom Italia 2011. MOVIO is released under MIT license that allows the widest possible reuse of software. The source code has been published on GIT-HUB.\n\nThe consortium is composed of 40 partners from 21 member countries:\n\n\nMOVIO software has been released under MIT license and is available for download on GIT-Hub\n"}
{"id": "52041370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52041370", "title": "Bedford Museum &amp; Genealogical Library", "text": "Bedford Museum &amp; Genealogical Library\n\nThe Bedford Museum & Genealogical Library is the county museum and genealogical library for Bedford County, Virginia It was started in 1932 by the General William R. Terry chapter of the United Daughters of the Confederacy and the Peaks of Otter chapter of the National Society Daughters of the American Revolution. It was in multiple locations in the town of Bedford, VA including the Courthouse and the library. It finally found its permanent home in 1979 when it moved into the former Masonic Hall for Liberty Lodge #95. It is part of the Bedford Historic District and is known as Bedford Masonic Hall on that Wiki page. It is located at 201 E. Main St. Bedford, VA.\n\nThe Bedford Museum & Genealogical Library holds several events throughout the year including: An Annual train layout, Fridays at the Museum summer kids program, and Women's History Month essay contest for children.\n\nThe Bedford Museum is home to an annual O Gauge train layout on its third floor. Children are entertained as the train goes past villages and across a trestle and through a tunnel. They can also run a trolley that goes back and forth in the village. During the two weeks of Christmas Break, the Polar Express runs on the track as well. There are other interactive train possibilities as well, depending on the year.\n\nEvery summer the Bedford Museum & Genealogical Library hosts a weekly summer activity that is geared to children coming out of 2nd to 6th grades. The program is every Friday afternoon during the summer and children learn about local history and its interaction with national and sometimes international connections. Some of the activities have included a visit from the Monancan Tribe and the Bedford County Sheriff. There have also been trips to Avenel and the Avoca Museum. The Museum's program has seen great results with some of the children that participated in the program to get Passed Advanced in history on their VA SOL.\n\nEvery February the Bedford Museum & Genealogical Library hosts an annual Women's History Month Essay Contest open to students in the second to eighth grades. Students must write about a woman who lived during that years theme (American Revolution, Civil War, etc.) and why they admired them. Grand Prize winners are awarded $50 and 1st place and runners up get an award as well.\n\nThe Museum holds a Genealogy and History Forum on the 2nd Saturday of every month from February to November. Some of the speakers share personal genealogy stories, others talk about their experiences like Carl Overstreet, who was the first U2 pilot to fly over Soviet Air Space.\n\nIt also offers a free beginning genealogy class every month from February to November that offers tips and advice for students just getting started in Genealogy.\n\nThe Museum holds free weekly Bluegrass Jams on the third floor most Friday nights from 7 to 9 pm.\n\nThe Museum features three floors of exhibits that feature African Americans, Native Americans, World War I, World War II, Korean War, Vietnam War, Operation Enduring Freedom, Co. A 1/116 29th Division (AKA Bedford Boys), Civil War, American Revolution, as well as household furniture. The changing exhibit room that has highlighted local Manufacturing like Piedmont/Smyth Label and Lacey Putney, the longest serving Delegate in all of Virginia's History.\n\nThe first floor is the home location for the Genealogy Library. It features over 1,600 books and over 1,000 files on family names and local history.\n"}
{"id": "48423452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48423452", "title": "Bejucal Municipal Museum", "text": "Bejucal Municipal Museum\n\nBejucal Municipal Museum is a museum located in the 13th street in Bejucal, Cuba. It was established on 8 January 1981.\n\nThe museum holds collections on history, weaponry, ethnography, decorative arts and numismatics.\n\n"}
{"id": "37080977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37080977", "title": "Bibliography of encyclopedias: astronomy and astronomers", "text": "Bibliography of encyclopedias: astronomy and astronomers\n\nThis is a list of encyclopedias and encyclopedic/biographical dictionaries published on the subject of astronomy and astronomers in any language. Entries are in the English language except where noted.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52556253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52556253", "title": "Bilal Akbar", "text": "Bilal Akbar\n\nLieutenant-General Bilal Akbar () is a three-star rank army general, currently serving in field assignment commanding the X Corps stationed in Rawalpindi.\n\nHe is known for effectively commanding the army rangers against the organized crime in Karachi but faced serious accusations and allegations by the human rights organizations for forced disappearance of the political workers and rounding up political activists of Muttahida Qaumi Movement.\n\nAkbar hails from the Punjabi-speaking Phanbra family of Gujjars from Sialkot District, Punjab, Pakistan. After his matriculation, he was admitted at the Pakistan Military Academy in 1984, and passed out from the academy with a class of 73rd PMA Long Course on 14 March 1986. He gained commissioned in the army as 2nd-Lt in the Artillery Corps. He is a graduate of the Command and Staff College in Quetta, the National Defense University in Islamabad, and the Turkish Staff College in Istanbul.\n\nIn 2013–14, Maj-Gen. Akbar served as the GOC of the 11th Division stationed in Lahore, and was appointed as the Director-General of the Army Rangers's Sindh Division on 18 September 2014.\n\nOn 11 December 2016, Maj-Gen. Akbar was promoted to the three-star rank and appointed as the Chief of General Staff at the Army GHQ in Rawalpindi. On 24 August 2018, Lt-Gen. Akbar was then posted as the field commander of the X Corps stationed in Rawalpindi as a result of a major command reshuffle. \n\nLt-Gen. Akbar has faced severe criticism and allegations from the country's of authorizing the extrajudicial killings, and forced disappearance of many political activists and workers on the platform of the Muttahida Qaumi Movement. \n\nIn Karachi, he oversaw the establishment of the military courts and was accused of torture of the political workers.. The ISPR, however, denied any wrongdoings and quoted that the political worker died of a heart attack. The torture marks on Ahmed's body got international media attention.\n"}
{"id": "28609710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28609710", "title": "Butler-McCook Homestead", "text": "Butler-McCook Homestead\n\nThe Butler-McCook Homestead is a historic house museum at 396 Main Street in Hartford, Connecticut. Built in 1782, it is one of the city's few surviving 18th-century houses. It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1971. It is now operated as the Butler-McCook House & Garden by Connecticut Landmarks.\n\nThe Butler-McCook Homestead is located south of downtown Hartford, on the east side of Main Street at the Pulaski Mall. It is a 2-1/2 story wood frame structure, with a side gable roof, clapboarded exterior, and twin interior chimneys. Its main facade is five bays wide, with a center entrance sheltered by a shallow projecting portico with round columns, hip roof, and projecting cornice. The front roof face is pierced by three dormers, two small ones flanking a large central one. The house's rear structure contains a colonial kitchen on the first floor, and the structure's second floor was added in the 19th century. The house stands on about of land, part of which has formal gardens created by landscape architect Jacob Weidenman, the principal designer of Hartford's Bushnell Park. Attached to the right side of the house is a late 19th-century single-story structure.\n\nThe main house was built in 1782 for Dr. Daniel Butler, a physician who kept his consulting room here. Another resident of the house was Rev. John James McCook (professor) who was a professor at Trinity College (Connecticut) and the rector at St. John's Episcopal Church in East Hartford. His son, Dr. John Butler McCook, added the wing to the right to serve as his office in 1897. The house remained in the hands of Butler descendants for about two centuries, prior to its conversion to a museum. Its rooms now include displays of family memorabilia. The house reflects two centuries of ownership by one family, with furnishings and decorative items ranging from the Colonial through the Victorian eras. The house also features the Main Street History Center, with exhibits about Hartford's history.\n\n\nConnecticut Landmarks also operates other historic house museums, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "2008077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2008077", "title": "Clockmakers' Museum", "text": "Clockmakers' Museum\n\nThe Clockmakers' Museum in London, England is a collection of clocks, watches and other horological items which belongs to the Worshipful Company of Clockmakers, which is one of the City of London Livery Companies. Until October 2014 it was housed in a gallery at the Guildhall and admission was free. On 22 October 2015 the new display of the collection was officially opened by Princess Anne at the Science Museum in London, where it can be seen on the second floor. Admission remains free.\n\nThe Clockmakers' Collection was begun in 1814, and is the oldest collection specifically of clocks and watches in the world. It has been open to the public since 1874. The majority of items in the collection range from c.1600 to c.1850. The most important pieces include the marine timekeepers, in particular the celebrated fifth marine timekeeper completed by John Harrison in 1770 (H5).\n\nGuildhall Library holds the \"Library of Worshipful Company of Clockmakers\", one of the major publicly accessible collections of printed materials and manuscripts on British horology.\n\n"}
{"id": "12039693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12039693", "title": "Cogad Gáedel re Gallaib", "text": "Cogad Gáedel re Gallaib\n\nCogad Gáedel re Gallaib (\"The War of the Irish with the Foreigners\") is a medieval Irish text that tells of the depredations of the Vikings and Uí Ímair dynasty in Ireland and the Irish king Brian Boru's great war against them, beginning with the Battle of Sulcoit in 967 and culminating in the Battle of Clontarf in 1014, in which Brian was slain but his forces were victorious. The chronicle, which compares King Brian to Augustus and Alexander the Great, was written in the early twelfth century, at least a hundred years after the events it describes. Much of the narrative is drawn from the earlier Annals of Ulster.\n\nBased on internal evidence and on the nature of the text's allusions to Brian's great-grandson Muirchertach Ua Briain (d. 1119), it has been suggested that the work was composed sometime between 1103 and 1111.\nCogad Gáedel re Gallaib has been found in three texts. These three are the Books of Leinster c. 1160 C.E., the Dublin Manuscript dated to the 14th century and the Brussels Manuscript from 1635.\n\nThe author makes extensive use of long, elaborate passages that describe and highlight the contrast between the Irish king Brian and the foreign army he wars against. Brian and his followers are described in terms of their virtue and courage, often emphasising their Christian background and piety: \nThe text goes on to say that Brian and his Dál gCais are comparable to Augustus and Alexander the Great, even going on to suggest that Brian's son Murchadh \"was the metaphorical Hector of all-victorious Erinn, in religion, and in valour, and in championship, in generosity, and in munificence.\" The text draws heavily on figures of mythology and the Bible, attributing characteristics of Hercules and Samson to Murchadh. An aspect of the work's style that is lost in translation is the heavy-handed use of alliteration. When setting the scene for the Battle of Clontarf, there is a digression to describe the armament of the Dál gCais which consists of a series of twenty-seven adjectives, grouped in strings of alliterative words. \n\nIn contrast with the lavish praise bestowed on the Dál gCais, the text describes the Vikings with vehemence and condemnation, though in terms no less hyperbolic:\nThe text's censure of the foreigners elevates the Irish and Brian even further, setting up a striking difference in moral and religious character between the two groups.\n\nThe main purpose of the chronicle seems to be to eulogise Brian Boru and thereby to show that the record of achievements of Brian's Dál gCais dynasty proved that they deserved Ireland's high kingship. This was an issue because the Ua Briain sept of the Dál gCais was struggling to remain the High Kings of Ireland at the time of the chronicle's writing.\n\nThere are similarities to a part of the Icelandic \"Njáls saga\", which was composed in about 1280. In 1954, the scholar Einar Olafur Sveinsson postulated the incorporation into Njal's saga of a slightly earlier and lost thirteenth-century Icelandic saga, \"Brjáns saga\" (\"Brian's Saga\"). The relations between the accounts remains a matter of debate, and all the Icelandic written sources are considerably later than the chronicle.\n\nThe chronicler of \"Cogad Gáedel re Gallaib\" depicts the Vikings as vicious barbarians and suggests that the Dubliners are like their ancestors. In short, it may have been partly an attempt to \"put the Dubliners in their place.\"\n\nModern scholars consider \"Cogad Gáedel re Gallaib\" to be a piece of \"brilliant propaganda\" written in a \"bombastic style and full of patriotic hyperbole.\" Although the chronicle remains a valuable source of information about the Viking Age in Ireland, its accuracy is uncertain.\n\nComparable works include the earlier \"Fragmentary Annals of Ireland\" and the later \"Caithréim Chellacháin Chaisil\".\n\nJust as \"Cogad Gáedel re Gallaib\" drew on earlier annalistic sources, it was incorporated into later sources. Passages from \"Cogad\" were embedded in Geoffrey Keating's seventeenth century historical work \"Foras Feasa ar Éirinn\"; in turn, some of these sections were included in the work of James MacGeoghegan.\n\nThe narrative of the \"Cogad\" actually begins with the arrival of the tyrannical Ivar of Limerick, this only after a long introduction, the \"first part\" of the chronicle, which is composed primarily of valuable annalistic material taken from sources mostly no longer extant today.\n\nThe Munster section comprises a full quarter of the \"Cogad\" in total and a third of the narrative proper. The principal characters are:\n\nThe tale then introduces the Dal Cais clan and the sons of Cennedigh, Mathgambhain and Brian Boru. The lives and politics of both brothers are outlined including their numerous interactions with the 'foreigners'.\nBrian Boru's military aspirations are realised when he defeats the Ulaid of Aed O'Neill to gain control over Ulster. (LXXVII)\nBrian Boru and his army defend Dublin against the invaders and drive them back into the sea. (CX)\nFinally, Brian Boru dies at the hands of the Earl Brodar whom Brian manages to fatally wound. (CXIV)\n\n"}
{"id": "431375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=431375", "title": "Commissioners' Plan of 1811", "text": "Commissioners' Plan of 1811\n\nThe Commissioners' Plan of 1811 was the original design for the streets of Manhattan above Houston Street and below 155th Street, which put in place the rectangular grid plan of streets and lots that has defined Manhattan to this day. It has been called \"the single most important document in New York City's development,\" and the plan has been described as encompassing the \"republican predilection for control and balance  ... [and] distrust of nature.\" It was described by the Commission that created it as combining \"beauty, order and convenience.\"\n\nThe plan originated when the Common Council of New York City, seeking to provide for the orderly development and sale of the land of Manhattan between 14th Street and Washington Heights, but unable to do so itself for reasons of local politics and objections from property owners, asked the New York State Legislature to step in. The legislature appointed a commission with sweeping powers in 1807, and their plan was presented in 1811.\n\nThe Commissioners were Gouverneur Morris, a Founding Father of the United States; the lawyer John Rutherfurd, a former United States Senator; and the state Surveyor General, Simeon De Witt. Their chief surveyor was John Randel Jr., who was 20 years old when he began the job.\n\nThe Commissioners' Plan is arguably the most famous use of the grid plan or \"gridiron\" and is considered by many historians to have been far-reaching and visionary. Since its earliest days, the plan has been criticized for its monotony and rigidity, in comparison with irregular street patterns of older cities, but in recent years has been viewed more favorably by urban planners.\n\nThere were a few interruptions in the grid for public spaces, such as the Grand Parade between 23rd Street and 33rd Street, which was the precursor to Madison Square Park, as well as four squares named Bloomingdale, Hamilton, Manhattan, and Harlem, a wholesale market complex, and a reservoir. Central Park, the massive urban greenspace in Manhattan running from Fifth Avenue to Eighth Avenue and from 59th Street to 110th Street, was not a part of the plan, as it was not envisioned until the 1850s.\n\nThe gridiron as a concept for the layout of a town or city is not new. Gridirons can be found in the Old and New Kingdoms of Ancient Egypt, and in Mohenjo-daro in the Indus Valley in 2154 BCE with a population of 40,000 people, where many historians claim it was invented, and from where it may have spread to Ancient Greece. When the Greek city of Miletus was sacked by the Persians in 494 BCE and then liberated by Athens in 476 BCE, over the next three centuries it was rebuilt on the grid plan, with Hippodamusoften called \"the father of European urban planning\"as the local originator of the rectilinear grid system for the city's center, a concept he probably did not invent, but had heard about from elsewhere. Hippodamus went on to spread the grid to Piraeus, Rhodes and other cities in Greece.\n\nThe grid plan, or \"Hippodamian plan\", was also utilized by the Ancient Romans for their fortified military encampments, or \"castra\", many of which evolved into towns and cities; Pompeii is the best-preserved example of Roman urban planning using the gridiron system. Over time, however, and under the pressure of the needs of other cultures, Greek and Roman settlements which had been built using the grid became obliterated or so severely adapted that it is difficult to perceive the remains of the grid. Most Muslim cities, for instance, are not built according to a strict gridiron, although there may be fractured grids within them; Cairo is a notable exception.\n\nIn France, England, and Wales, \"castra\" evolved into \"bastides\", agricultural communities under a centralized monarchy. This example was followed on the European continent in cities such as New Brandenburg in Germany, which the Teutonic Knights founded in 1248, and in the many town planned and built in the 14th century in the Florentine Republic. The gridiron idea spread with the Renaissance, although in many cities, for instance London following the Great Fire of 1666, it failed to take root. However the rapid expansion of cities In the British Empire necessitated adoption of new neoclassical urban plans in particular the Scottish Enlightenment 'New Towns' of Edinburgh of 1767 and Glasgow of 1781 were particularly influential in the English-speaking countries. In some European cities, such as Amsterdam and Paris, destruction of parts of the city by fire, warfare and other calamities offered an opportunity for the grid system to be used to replace more evolutionary street layouts, especially in outlying areas, while the central city, often sheltered behind medieval walls, remained organic and undesigned.\n\nIn what would become the United States, the gridiron now predominates. In areas that were under Spanish control, the 1753 Laws of the Indies specified the use of the gridiron, and the results can be seen in Santa Fe, Albuquerque, San Diego, San Francisco, and Los Angeles, as well as in Buenos Aires and Mexico City. By the time of the passage of the federal Land Ordinance of 1785, the grid plan was firmly established in the US. The Ordinance required newly created states to have rectilinear boundaries, rather than boundaries shaped by natural features, and within the new areas, beginning in the Northwest Territory, everything was to be divided into rectangles: townships were sixmiles by sixmiles , sections were onemile by onemile , and individual lots were . Cities such as Anchorage, Alaska; Erie, Pennsylvania; Miami, Florida; and Sacramento, California, all show the American preference for the grid.\n\nThere was significant variation in the size of the grids used. Carson City, Nevada, may have the smallest at square and streets, while Salt Lake City, Utah, is much larger at square blocks surrounded by streets. The most popular appears to be the square block with streets that are wide. This size grid can be found in Anchorage; Bismarck, North Dakota; Missoula, Montana; Mobile, Alabama; Phoenix, Arizona; and Tulsa, Oklahoma.\n\nAlthough some English colonial cities, such as Boston, had streets that adhered more to natural topography and happenstance, others, such as Savannah, Georgia, Baltimore, Maryland, New Orleans, Louisiana, and, notably, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, had been built to the gridiron concept from the beginningin Philadelphia's case, William Penn, specified the city's orthogonal pattern when he founded it in 1682, although its blocks turned out to be too large, encouraging the creation of intermediate streets, while James Oglethorpe's Savannah, with its significantly smaller blocks, was not conducive to large-scale development, restricting the city's economic influence. New Amsterdam, however, had not been laid out in a grid pattern by the Dutch. The streets of lower Manhattan were more organic, and incorporated Native American trails, cow paths, and streets that followed the topography and hydrology of the swampy land.\n\nIn all, the gridiron is \"the most pervasive city design on earth\" and can be found in \"Italy and Greece, in Mexico, Central America, Mesopotamia, China [and] Japan.\"\n\nThe streets of lower Manhattan had, for the most part, developed organically as the colony of New Amsterdamwhich became New York when the British took it over from the Dutch without firing a shot in 1664grew. The roads were a mixture of country lanes, short streets and Native American and animal trails, all shaped by haphazard history, happenstance and property ownership without any overarching order, until around 1800 when the Common Council of New York began to assert authority over the streetscape, promulgating regulations to keep them clear and to require new streets be approved in advance. They also began to lay assessments on property owners to pay for the cost of keeping the streets in repair. Beginning in 1803, the Council started to condemn streets which served no public purpose, and, importantly, took responsibility for building streets, which heretofore had been done by individual property owners.\n\nThe first efforts at putting a grid onto Manhattan in some form came from private developers. In the early 1750s, Trinity Church laid out a small neighborhood around the new King's Collegewhich would later become Columbia Universityin rectangular blocks. However, because the plan required landfill in the Hudson River, which wouldn't happen until much later, the streets were never laid down. However, in 1762 the church did have streets surveyed and laid down in a rectilinear grid in the \"Church Farm\"which ran from what is now Cortlandt Street to Christopher Streetand offered the plots to artisans and laborers at very affordable rents.\n\nThe second instance came when the powerful De Lancey family decided to break up part of their vast estate in the 1760s, and laid out of grid of streets centered on \"De Lancey Square\". As royalists, their holdings were confiscated after the American Revolution, but the streets remainedalthough a new street, Grand Street, was laid through the central square. The north–south streets of the De Lancey grid become the core north–south streets of the Lower East Side: Chrystie, Forsyth, Eldridge, Allen, Orchard and Ludlow Streets, and the grid became the pattern for additional streets laid out in the area.\n\nThe third instance of a privately developed grid in New York City came in 1788, when the long-established Bayard family, relatives of Peter Stuyvesant, hired surveyor Casimir Goerck to lay out streets in the portion of their estate west of Broadway, so the land could be sold in lots. About accommodated 7 east–west and 8 north–south streets, all wide, making up 35 whole or partial rectilinear blocks of width from east to west, and between and long north to southalthough near the edges of the estate the grid broke down in order to connect up with existing streets. The Bayard streets still exist as the core of SoHo and part of Greenwich Village: Mercer, Greene, and Wooster Streets, LaGuardia Place/West Broadway (originally Laurens Street), and Thompson, Sullivan, MacDougal, and Hancock Streets, although the last has been subsumed by the extension of Sixth Avenue.\n\nAt about the same time as the Bayards, Petrus Stuyvesant, the great-grandson of Peter Stuyvesant, intended to lay out a small grid of streets, nine by four, to create a village on his estate. The orientation of the streets was to be true north–south and east–west, not shifted, as Manhattan Island is, 29 degrees east of true north. The only street to actually be laid was the grid's central east–west axis, Stuyvesant Street, which remains the one street in Manhattan oriented closely to true east and west.\n\nDespite the fact that the city's charters over the decadesthe Dongan Charter (1686), the Cornbury Charter (1708) and the Montgomerie Charter (1731)supported by specific laws passed by the province or state in 1741, 1751, 1754, 1764, 1774 and 1787, gave the city's Common Council full powers over the creation of new streets, the Council rarely did so, independent of the actions of the various landowners who developed their property and ran streets through their projects as they saw fit, which were approved after the fact by the Council. Its first effort to do so came in June 1785 as part of the Council's attempt to raise money by selling property.\n\nThe Council owned a great deal of land, primarily in the middle of the island, away from the Hudson and East Rivers, as a result of grants by the Dutch provincial government to the colony of New Amsterdam. Although originally more extensive, by 1785 the council held approximately , or about 9% of the island. Unfortunately, the land was not only of such poor qualitybeing either rocky and elevated or swampy and low-lyingthat it was not suitable for farming or residential estates, and was also difficult to get to because of both the lack of roads and access to waterways.\n\nTo divide the Common Lands, as they were called, into sellable lots, and to lay out roads to service them, the Council hired Goerck, one of a handful of officially approved \"city surveyors\", to survey them. Goerck, who was related to the Roosevelt family by marriage, was instructed to make lots of about eachprecision in such matters was not to be expected with the available surveying tools, given the topography and ground cover of the Common Landsand to lay out roads to access the lots. He completed his task in December, only six months later, creating 140 lots of varying sizes. Although not laid out in a gridiron patternGoerck was not instructed to do somost of the lots were organized into two columns of 45 lots with a road between the columns. The lots were oriented as the lots of the future Commissioners' Plan would be, with the east–west axis longer than the north–south axis; their five-acre size would become the template for the Commissioners' five acre blocks; and Goerck's middle road would eventually reappear on the Commissioners' Plan, without acknowledgment, as the wide Fifth Avenue.\n\nUnfortunately for the Common Council, the disadvantages of the plots in the Common Lands worked against their sale, and there was no run on the market to buy them. Still, sales continued at a steady, if not spectacular, pace. By 1794, with the city growing ever more populated and the inhabited area constantly moving north towards the Common Lands, the Council decided to try again, hiring Goerck once more to re-survey and map the area. He was instructed to make the lots more uniform and rectangular and to lay out roads to the west and east of the middle road, as well as to lay out east–west streets of each. Later, the Commissioners would use Goerck's East and West Roads for their Fourth and Sixth Avenues, again without acknowledging their debt. Goerck's cross streets would become the numbered east–west streets of the later plan. Goerck took two years to survey the 212 lots which encompassed the entire Common Lands. Again, impeded by tools and topography, Goerck's work was somewhat less than precise. In 1808, John Hunn, the city's street commissioner would comment that \"The Surveys made by Mr. Goerck upon the Commons were effected through thickets and swamps, and over rocks and hills where it was almost impossible to produce accuracy of mensuration.\" Often the streets intended to intersect at right angles would not quite do so.\n\nStill, Goerck's work in surveying the Common Lands was the basis for the Commissioners' Plan, as explained by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission: \"The Commissioner's Plan borrowed heavily from Goerck's earlier surveys and essentially expanded his scheme beyond the common lands to encompass the entire island.\" Historian Gerard Koeppel comments \"In fact, the great grid is not much more than the Goerck plan writ large. The Goerck plan is modern Manhattan's Rosetta Stone ...\"\n\nIn 1797, the Council commissioned Goerck and Joseph-François Mangin, another city surveyor, to survey Manhattan's streets; Goerck and Mangin had each submitted individual proposals to the Council, but then decided to team up. Goerck died of yellow fever during the course of the project, but Mangin completed it and delivered the draft of the Mangin–Goerck Plan to the Council in 1799 for correction of street names; the final engraved versionmade by engraver Peter Maverick, who would also go on to engrave the published map of the Commissioners' Planwould be presented to the Council in 1803. However, Mangin had gone well beyond the terms of his commission, and the map not only showed the existing streets of the city, as instructed, but was also, in Mangin's words, \"the Plan of the City ... such as it is to be ...\"\n\nIn other words, the Mangin–Goerck Plan was a guide to where and how Mangin believed future streets should be laid out. It called for enlarging the tip of the island and using landfill to regularize its waterfront. He placed a number of street grids on land that was, at the time, agricultural or undeveloped. The grids, which had different baselines, met up, and there Mangin placed parks and public spaces. He extended the Bayard grid northward, and the De Lancey grid to the east and north, and created a new grid of true north–south/east–west streets, among other inventions. As Gerard Koppel comments:\n\nIn sum, Mangin's plan of the city \"such as it is to be\" was a synthesizing of patterns already establishing themselves at the suburban fringes of the city and, in the city proper, an orderly filling in east and west with linear streets out to continuous roads along the waterfronts. The city government hadn't asked for it, but it seemed to be just what it wanted.\n\nThe Council apparently accepted the plan as \"the new Map of the City\" for four years, even publishing it by subscription, until political machinations perhaps engineered by Aaron Burr acting through the city's street commissioner, Joseph Browne Jr., brought it into disrepute. Burrthe political enemy of Mangin's mentor Alexander Hamiltonmay have been upset that the design of New York's City Hall had gone to Mangin and his partner John McComb Jr., and not to Burr's candidate, Benjamin Henry Latrobe Jr., but for whatever reason, the plan was disavowed by the Council, and was no longer to be considered \"the new Map of the City.\" The Council ordered that copies which had already been sold be bought back if possible, and that a label warning of inaccuracies be placed on any additional copies sold. They stopped short at totally destroying the plan, but, still, neglect may have had the same effect: the original square engraved map has disappeared, and of the smaller versions only less than a dozen are extant, none in good condition.\n\nNevertheless, despite the Council's official disavowal of Mangin's layout of future streets, as the city grew the Mangin–Goerck Plan became the \"de facto\" reference for where new streets were built, and when the Commissioners' Plan was revealed in 1811, the area of the plan which the public had been warned was inaccurate and speculative had been accepted wholesale by the Commission, their plan being almost identical to Mangin's in that area.\n\nPolitics may have caused the Common Council to officially decertify Mangin's plan for the future expansion of the city, but the episode nonetheless was a step forward in the development of the city's future. In the \"warning label\" the Council caused to have placed on copies of Mangin's map was the statement that expansion of the city, such as shown on the map, was \"subject to such future arrangements as the Corporation may deem best calculated to promote the health, introduce regularity, and conduce to the convenience of the City.\" Here the Council was showing its willingness to consider actively planning for how the city would develop.\n\nIn 1806, they took a first step by hiring Ferdinand Hassler. Hassler, a Swiss mathematician and geodetic surveyor who was noted for his work on a topographic survey of Switzerland, had immigrated to Philadelphia in 1805, two years after the French invaded his country and made his work there impossible. Through the auspices of a merchant friend with friends in New York, in the spring of 1806, the Common Council commissioned Hassler to make an accurate map of Manhattan Island, which could be used as a basis for planning future development; it would be Hassler's first substantial contract in the U.S. He accepted the job, and the terms: $5 per day for Hassler (), $4 dollars a day for his assistant (), and $1 per day for expenses (), plus a budget sufficient to hire a surveying crew. He was scheduled to depart from Philadelphia in July, in time for at least part of the 1806 surveying season, but never appeared. Finally, in October, he sent his regrets: both he and his wife had taken ill on the day they intended to leave. Why they didn't send word earlier, why Hassler didn't press on at some point before October, and why the Common Council never thought to inquire of the whereabouts of their missing surveyor is not known. In any case, by October, the surveying season for 1806 was over, or close to it. Hassler soon received a federal appointmenthe would eventually head the first Coast Surveyso the Council was back at square one.\n\nSo, in 1807, they acted again. Optimists at that time expected the city's population, then around 95,000 people, to expand to 400,000 by 1860, when, in fact, it reached 800,000 before the beginning of the Civil War. Faced with opposition and conflict from various political factions, including property owners whose private deeds conflicted with the property lines of the Mangin–Goerck, and the reality that any plan the Council came up with could be overturned by a subsequent Council, the city asked the state legislature for help. The Council said its goal was \"laying out Streets ... in such a manner as to unite regularity and order with the public convenience and benefit and in particular to promote the health of the City ... [by allowing] a free and abundant circulation of air\" to stave off disease, as at the time, foul air, or \"miasma\", was thought to be the cause of many diseases, and the city had lived through decades of epidemics of yellow fever.\n\nIn March 1807, the state legislature responded by appointing as a Commission the three men suggested by the Common Council to establish a comprehensive street plan for Manhattan: Gouverneur Morris, a Founding Father of the United States; the lawyer John Rutherfurd, a former United States Senator representing New Jersey and a relative to Morris by marriage; and the state Surveyor General, Simeon De Witt, a cousin of De Witt Clinton, who was the Mayor of New York City, a State Senator, and the most powerful politician in New York.\n\nA month later, the legislature gave the Commissioners \"exclusive power to lay out streets, roads, and public squares, of such width, extent, and direction, as to them shall seem most conducive to public good, and to shut up, or direct to be shut up, any streets or parts thereof which have been heretofore laid out ... [but] not accepted by the Common Council.\" The jurisdiction of the Commission was all of Manhattan north of Houston Street, and into the Hudson and East Rivers 600 feet beyond the low water mark. They were given 4 years to have the island surveyed, and then to produce a map showing the placement of future streets. There were few specifications given to them about those streets, except that streets were to be at least wide, while \"leading streets\" and \"great avenues\" were to be at least wide.\n\nThe baseline of the Commissioner's remit was set at Houston Street\"North Street\" at the time\"Art Street\", which was located approximately where Washington Square North is today, and \"Greenwich Lane\", now Greenwich Street. Greenwich Village, then independent of New York City, and the current West Village were not part of the area the Commission was to deal with.\n\nMorris was not named the president of the Commission, but acted as such. A majority of Commissioners, i.e., two of them, was required to make decisions. The Commissioners were authorized to be paid $4 a day for their work ()although Morris and Rutherfurd, both rich men, waived their feesand were empowered to enter onto private property in the daytime to undertake their duties; this was greeted with widespread hostility from property owners, but the Commission's authority was explicit. They held, for instance, the \"exclusive power\" to close streets that interfered with their plan, a plan which landowners as well as the mayor, the Common Council and all other citizens of the city had no choice but to accept.\n\nAt the meetings of the Commission, which were infrequent and usually not attended by all three men, their primary concern was what kind of layout the new area of the city should have, a rectilinear grid such as was used in Philadelphia; New Orleans; Savannah, Georgia; and Charleston, South Carolina, or a more complex system utilizing circles, arcs or other patterns, such as plan Pierre Charles L'Enfant had used in laying out Washington, D.C. In the end, the Commission decided on the gridiron as being the most practical and cost-effective, as \"straight-sided and right-angled houses are the most cheap to build and the most convenient to live in.\"\n\nIn order for the Commissioners to determine what the future of New York City's streets would be, they needed to know the precise location of the current streets, which meant that most of the four years they were given for their task would be taken up with surveying Manhattan island.\n\nThe Commission's first chief surveyor was Charles Frederick Loss, who, like Mangin and the deceased Goerck, was an officially recognized city surveyor, a position he received contingent on becoming a naturalized American citizen. Unfortunately Loss did not appear to be a very competent surveyor, as several of his ventures had serious errors, which eventually resulted in his being relieved of his position in 1811. Loss exhibited the same lack of ability as the chief surveyor for the Commission, and finally the Commission made an agreement with Loss that he would do only the first task that had been assigned to him: to make a map of Manhattan island, and get accurate measurements for the location of certain streets which would provide a framework for the plan of future streets. For this, Loss would receive no wages but a simple fee of $500. (). Loss was to deliver the map by May 1808.\n\nThe Commissioners' replacement as chief engineer and surveyor, John Randel Jr., took over the position in June 1808; the project would occupy him for most of the next 13 years. Randel had been apprenticed to De Witt, and when he became an assistant surveyor in De Witt's office, he interpreted the field reports of other surveyors to draft maps based on them of land in the Adirondack Mountains and on the Oneida Reservation, mapped the Albany Turnpike between Albany and Schenectady and the Great Western Turnpike from Albany to Cooperstown, and surveyed property lots in Albany and in Central New York, particularly Oneida County When he was hired by the commissionon De Witt's suggestion and with Morris' approvalhe was still a relatively inexperienced 20-year-old.\n\nRandel's surveying in 1808 had nothing to do with laying out the grid, which had not yet been determined as the final result of the Commission's work. Instead, he was determining the topography and ground cover of the land and the placement of natural features such as hills, rocks, swamps, marshes, streams, and ponds, as well as man-made features such as houses, barns, stables, fences, footpaths, cleared fields and gardens. He was also carefully noting the locations of the three north–south roads that Goerck had laid down as part of his survey of the Common Lands. Goerck had not placed the lots and roads in the Common Lands in the context of the overall island, and this Randel did, thus allowing the Commissioners to know where, exactly, Goerck's Common Lands grid was. This was important, because it could serve as a template for a grid for the entire island, should the Commission decide to go in that direction.\n\nRandel wrote afterwards that in the course of his work he \"was arrested by the Sheriff, on numerous suits instituted ... for trespass and damage by ... workmen, in passing over grounds, cutting off branches of trees. &c., to make surveys under instructions from the Commissioners.\" In August 1808, Randel was sued by a landowner in 1808 for trespass and causing damage to the landowner's property, such as cutting down trees and trampling on crops; $5000 was requested in damages, but the landowner received only $109.63, just enough to cover his court costs. Nonetheless, the potential for future problems was real. Gouverneur Morris asked the Common Council for a means of protecting the necessary actions of the surveyors, but, for political reasons, the council could not agree on a solution, and passed the buck, again, to the state legislature. With the Commissioners threatening to resign if something wasn't done about the \"vexatious interruptions\", the legislature acted in 1809 with a law providing that if the needed actions to perform the survey could not be performed \"without cutting trees or doing damages\" and \"reasonable notice\" was to be provided by the Commission or the surveyors to the landowner, and they were to view the property together to assess the situation. The landowner was to present a bill for \"reasonable damages\", which the city was to pay within 30 days; any disagreement among the parties as to what was reasonable would, of course, end up in court. The new law did not completely stop lawsuits, but it cut down their number, and allowed Randel to go about his business with a degree of immunity from legal entanglements.\n\nIn 1809, Randel's surveying again seems to have been focused on positioning the Common Lands, and Goerck's lots and streets in it, to the rest of the island. Goerck had shown their relationship to the Bloomingdale Road to the west, much of which would become part of Broadway, and the East Post Road to the east, a road which would be demapped by the Commissioners Plan'. Little is known about Randel's surveying in 1810.\n\nAnd in the meantime, the Commissioners were, generally speaking, distracted by various other personal and political business; although they metinfrequentlythere is no record of what they discussed, or if they were getting closer to a decision about what their plan would entail. Finally, on November 29, 1810, with the surveying season for that season over and only four months left before they were to report out their plan, they seemed to have arrived at a decision. On that date, Morris informed the Common Council that although more work was left to be done \"on the ground\", the Commission itself had \"completed their work\" and would be able to make a report that would \"compl[y] substantially, if not literally within the law, shewing all the streets which to be laid out ...\" Randel then spent a considerable amount of time in December meeting with Morris and perhaps the other Commissioners at Morris' estate in the Bronx, during which time it appears that the grid plan was born. At Morris' suggestion, the Common Council hired Randel to actually do the extensive work involved in making the grid a physical realityalthough city surveyor William Bridges (see below) also submitted a proposal to do the workand Randel began this work even before the Commissioners' Plan was announced publicly. A provisional contract between the Council and Randel was signed on December 31, the permanent contract being conditional on Randel delivering the final maps of the plan, which he did on March 22, 1811; the maps were filed by the Council's clerk on April 2, two days before the Commission's legal deadline.\n\nRandel's survey of the entire islandhad begun in 1808 and was completed in 1810, and he now prepared the drafts of the new grid without regard to the topography of the land. The three maps were large, almost nine feet in length when connected together. Commissioner Simeon De Witt said of Randel's work that it was made \"with an accuracy not exceeded by any work of the kind in America.\" Randel himself would later write that \"The \"time\" within which the Commissioners were limited by the Statute to make their \"Plan\" of the streets, avenues, and public places on Manhattan [was] barely \"sufficient\" to enable them to comply with the \"letter\", although not fully with the \"spirit\", of the Statute.\" (italics in original)\n\nThe format chosen by the Commissioners was a rectilinear grid, or \"gridiron\": straight streets and avenues intersecting each other at right angles. Legal historian Hendrick Hartog writes that their choice was resonant with the political values of the country, which only recently gained independence from Great Britain. According to Hartog, the grid was: \"... the antithesis of a utopian or futuristic plan.\" It extolled ordinary everyday life, and emphasized that \"government ought not to act in such a way as to create inequality of special privilege.\" The Plan's \"hidden agenda\" was \"[t]he reconstruction of the natural environment to fit the requirements of republican authority.\" Even though \"[t]he Commissioners wrote as if all they cared about was protecting the investments of land developers and maintaining government-on-the-cheap ... the plan ... however, served to transform space into an expression of public philosophy,\" which emphasized equality and uniformity. \"In a city shaped by rectangular blocks, all structures and activities would look roughly the same. Individual distinctions, whether cultural, charitable, economic, or whatever, would have to find their place within a fixed, republican spatial organization.\"\n\nThe Commissioners published their plan in March 1811 in the form of an mapredrawn by the otherwise little known William Bridges from Randel's original, and engraved by Peter Maverickwith an accompanying 54-page pamphlet. The grid had 12 primary north–south avenues and numerous cross streets arranged in a regular right-angled grid tilted 29 degrees east of true north to roughly replicate the angle of Manhattan island. The Commission chose not to use circles and ovals such as Pierre L'Enfant had used in his design of Washington D.C., convinced that simple rectangles were best, the most convenient and easiest to build on, and therefore the most conducive to the orderly development of the city. The combination of north–south avenues and east–west streets at the specified dimensions was the creation of approximately 2000 long, narrow blocks.\n\nExcept in the north and south ends of the island, the avenues would begin with First Avenue on the east side and run through Twelfth Avenue in the west. In addition, where the island was wider, there would be four additional lettered avenues running from Avenue A eastward to Avenue D. Some of the avenues, such as Twelfth Avenue, ran through land that did not as yet exist, but the state legislation which created the Commission also authorized the city to extend its boundaries into the Hudson and East Rivers, so the land required for these new streets would eventually be created. Broadway, an existing road, was not included in the 1811 plan, and was added to the grid later.\n\nThe plan also called for 155 orthogonal cross streets. The location of the cross streets was fixed at the boundaries of parcels into which the land had previously been divided. The basepoint for the cross streets was First Street: this was a short and inconspicuous street, which still exists, and originally ran from the intersection of Avenue B and Houston Street to the intersection of the Bowery and Bleecker Street. Peretz Square, a small, narrow triangular park bounded by Houston Street, 1st Street, and First Avenue, is the grid's cornerstone.\n\nThe numbered streets running east–west are wide, with about between each pair of streets, resulting in a grid of approximately 2,000 long, narrow blocks. With each combined street and block adding up to about , there are almost exactly 20 blocks per mile. Fifteen crosstown streets were designated as wide: 14th, 23rd, 34th, 42nd, 57th, 72nd, 79th, 86th, 96th, 106th, 116th, 125th, 135th, 145th and 155th Streets.\n\nThe width of the crosstown blocks was irregular. The distance between First and Second Avenues was , while the block between Second and Third Avenues was . The blocks between Third and Sixth Avenues were , while the blocks between the avenues from Sixth to Twelfth were . Lexington and Madison Avenues were added after the original plan. The shorter blocks near the Hudson and East River waterfronts was purposeful, as the Commissioners' expected that there would be more development there at a time when water-based transportation was still significant. The Commission expected that street frontage near the piers would be more valuable than the landlocked interior, the waterfront being the location of commerce and industry of the time, and so it would be to everyone's benefit to place avenues closer together at the island's edges. Although varied, the width of all the avenues were sufficient to accommodate large numbers of horse-drawn mass transportation vehicles such as the omnibus, which would soon appear in Manhattan in the late 1820s, but the precursors to which had been operating in Paris as early as 1662, operated by philosopher Blaise Pascal.\n\nA curiosity about the grid plan the Commissioners chose for New York City is that while many other cities used a square grid, they did not. Perhaps influenced by the dimensions of the island, which is longer north–south than it is east–west, Manhattan's blocks are long rectangles, with the east–west dimension, while varied, larger than the big grid of Salt Lake City, while the north–south dimension, at , just longer than the small grid of Carson City. Historian Gerard Koeppel remarks that \"while the grid brought order to the place, it also made it a place of extremes.\"\n\nIn implementing the grid, existing buildings were allowed to remain where they were if at all possible, but if removal was necessary the owners would receive compensation from the city, although appeal was available to a special panel appointed by the state's highest court. (See \"Opening\" and \"regulating\" the streets below) In 2011, it was estimated that 39% of the buildings north of Houston Street which were standing in 1811 (721 out of 1,825) had to be moved. On the other hand, if the plan improved the accessibility of a property, the city was authorized to levy an assessment on the owner for the improvement, a method previously used by the city after building public amenities, such as wells.\n\nThe Commissioners' Plan did not in any way specify what the size of individual lots within the blocks should be, although the size and rectangular nature of the blocks lent itself to rectangular lots of equal size to fit into the block. A standard lot was deep, which was half the depth of the block, and wide, depending on the location. By removing most of the topographical features which had once defined lot boundaries, the grid turned land into a commodity, which could be easily bought and sold in roughly equal-sized units, thus rationalizing the real estate market. Zoning requirements also contributed to the order brought by the grid: the city required buildings on avenues to be no more than three stories, and those on the streets no more than two. This, of course, changed over time.\n\nConspicuous by their relative absence from the plan were amenities for the city's population, including parks and plazas. The legislature which had created the Commission called for it to provide public areas but, perhaps because they underestimated the growth potential of the city, they laid out very few of these. The primary one was the Grand Parade of between 23rd and 33rd Street and between Third and Seventh Avenues, which was to be an open space slated for military drilling and for use as an assembly point in the event the city was invaded. At the time, some thought that the Grand Parade might become a \"central park\" for the city, but the grounds were gradually reduced over the course of time, until what was left was the current Madison Square Park.\n\nThe Commission also placed squares significantly smaller than the Grand Parade at 53rd to 57th Street between Eighth to Ninth Avenues (Bloomingdale Square), 66th to 68th Street from Third to Fifth Avenue (Hamilton Square), 77th to 81st Streets between Eighth and Ninth Avenues (Manhattan Square), and 117th to 121st Street between Sixth and Seventh Avenues (Harlem Square). Observatory Place, intended for a reservoir, stood at 89th to 94th Streets between Fourth and Fifth Avenues, and there was a large space in what became the Lower East Side, from 7th to 10th Streets and from First Avenue to the East River, intended as a wholesale market complex.\n\nOf the public spaces created by the Commission, only Manhattan Square has survivedsince 1958 called Theodore Roosevelt Park, with part of it called Margaret Mead Green since 1979as the grounds around the American Museum of Natural History. The park officially became a part of Central Park as of 1874. The Grand Parade was first reduced from to by 1815, and then demapped altogether, except for which survives as Madison Square Park. The market on the Lower East Side was whittled down from to , then finally became the Tompkins Square Park.\n\nOne of the reasons behind the lack of inland open spaces in the plan was the belief of the Commissioners that the public would always have access to the \"large arms of the sea which embrace Manhattan Island\", the Hudson and East Rivers, as well as New York Harbor. They considered that if New York was a city such as Paris or London, located along the relatively small Seine and Thames River, then more parkland \"for the benefit of fresh air and consequent preservation of health\" would have been necessary. The Commissioners did not consider the proliferation of roadways, docks, wharves, rail yards, quarries and commercial sites which would essentially block the public from access to the rivers until the late 20th century, when a combination of factors began to make the riversides once again accessible, at least in narrow strips of greenways.\n\nThere was a private controversy regarding the publication of the map of the Commissioners' Plan. Randel had begun to prepare a map to go to the engraver, using his original papers, when he found out that the council had given William Bridges, another of the handful of city-recognized surveyors, the right to do so. Bridges simply copied one of Randel's previously published maps, which were in the public domain, without access to the supporting material Randel had accumulated, introducing errors as he did so, some of them possibly intentional, since he was legally bound not to copy the map exactly. Bridges published and copyrighted the resulting map as a private venture, leaving Randel out in the cold: his name did not appear anywhere on Bridges' map.\n\nThe conflict between the two men did not come to a head until three years later, in 1814, when Randel starting advertising his own version of the Commissioners' Plan map, which he said was \"more correct\" than the previously published onehe did not mention Bridges by namenot only because of the errors he claimed had crept into the map when Bridges copied it, but because he, Randel, \"has since completed the measurements and fixed monuments by contract with the [Common Council], [therefore] he alone is possessed of all the materials for this valuable work.\" He published a letter from Gouverneur Morris, who called Randel's map \"an excellent work ... indispensible to those who wish to make themselves acquainted with the Topography of that interesting space which is comprizes . It appears to me more accurate than anything of the kind which has yet appeared. ... I consider it highly deserving of public patronage.\" Bridges shot back, commenting that Randel was \"unprincipled\", and \"conceited\", and lacking in \"honorable conduct\". Randel, of course, responded, listing many, but not all, of the errors in Bridges' map, including islands that were not the right length, width, or in the wrong place, rocks and hills misplaced and mis-sized, rivers and forts too close to each other, missing and misplaced buildings, and streets shown as closed which were not. Bridges, whose reputation both as a surveyor and as a man was far from clean, did not reply, perhaps because his wife was sick at the time, and died several months after Randel's second letter. In any case, Bridges himself died shortly after that, and Randel did not publish his map or have it engraved at that time, due to national security concerns connected with the War of 1812. He eventually published it in 1821.\n\nMarguerite Holloway, Randel's biographer, divides his work in New York into three periods. The first, from 1808 to 1810, resulted in the 1811 publication of the Commissioners' Plan. The final phase was from around 1818 to 1821, when Randel and his first wife Matilda became high-quality cartographers, makers of maps. In 1811, it was time for Randel to enter stage two, during which he completed the necessary geodetic surveying and inscribed the grid into the land.\n\nEven with the publication of the Commissioners' Plan, the work of gridironing Manhattan was far from done. Randel's map only showed 16 elevation points for the entirety of Manhattan island, and many more would be needed. In addition, very few of the streets were actually placed into the physical landscape of the island; 125th Street, for instance, was the northernmost street for which Randel had an actual physical position. These tasks, that of completing the survey with elevations, along with marking the actual positions of the notional streets of the plan, would take Randel another six years, until about 1817, supervised by a committee of five alderman, as the Commission had disbanded once it had discharged its legal responsibility.\n\nTo do this work, Randel was given an allocation of $1,000 for surveying instruments (), but he also spent his own moneybetween $2,400 () and $3,000 ()developing seven surveying instruments which, among other benefits, would not vary in size because of temperature changes, resulting in great precision. An expert in Colonial era surveying equipment has expressed the opinion, after closely examining images of Randel's new instrumentsthe pamphlet that explained them has been lostthat Randel was \"Basically ... a mechanical genius.\"\n\nTo inscribe the grid onto the land, Randel and his staff erected almost 1,600 markersprimarily long, square marble monuments inscribed with the number of the street, placed at each intersection. Where rocks prevented the use of the marble markers, they blasted a hole with gunpowder, filled it with lead, then inserted long iron bolts that were square. In all, they positioned 1,549 marble markers and 98 iron bolts to define the pattern of the grid.\n\nAs Randel's work proceeded, and landowners could see for themselves, on the ground and not on a map, where the planned streets would be, some of them took action to fight against the plan, not only destroying temporary measurement pegs, but also digging up the marble markers. Randel simply replaced the pegs and the markers, and the Common Council covered the cost of doing so, allocating Randel $4,000 (), although they refused to pay him $11,479.31 () he asked for to cover the cost of re-measuring with his new instruments what he had previously measured. The Council reasoned that it was Randel's job to be accurate, so additional fees were not justified.\n\nAfter 1813, when they were married, Randel's wife Matilda joined him the Harlem house he rented, participating in his work by helping with drawing of maps, but not by going out on the surveying trips.\n\nAs part of the third stage of his work, Randel intended to create an extremely large map of the city, at an unprecedented scale. This has been a part of the agreement between Randel and the Common Council in 1812, but had been forgotten by all except Randel. Somewhat peeved to be reminded of it six years later, the council nonetheless honored the contract, and officially commissioned Randel to make his map. This was done by way of 92 by colored \"Farm Maps\" made at a scale of that overlaid Manhattan's natural topography with the intended grid. When put together, the Farm Maps made a map of the city about long. It took Randel and his wife Matilda two years, from 1819 to 1820, to finish the maps, working from their new home, having moved to Orange, New Jersey. He needed, asked for, and received an extension from the Common Council to complete the task, and even then he did not quite make the deadline, delivering the last maps in September 1820, about four months late.\n\nRandel's Farm Maps are justly praised for their accuracy and usefulness. Historian Isaac Newton Phelps Stokes, in his \"The Iconography of Manhattan Island, 1498–1909\" called them \"the most complete and valuable topographical record of the period that exists. It is, in fact, the only early topographical record of the island.\"\n\nThe Farm Maps also make clear why so many property owners were distraught about the coming of the grid, and why some of them tried to stop Randel and his crew from completing their work. The maps are replete with houses that are directly in the way of where streets were scheduled to run, and lots that would be bisected, trisected, or completely obliterated by the streets and avenues of the new grid. No wonder people fought back against the Commissioners' Plan, or set their dogs on Randel and his men.\n\nAs well as the Farm Maps, Randel produced an atlas of the city, filling in with \"astounding precision\" the details of street locations and elevations which had been left off the official map.\n\nThe process of creating one of the streets gridded on the Commissioners' map was two-fold. First, the city had to acquire the land, compensating the owner for doing so. This was called \"opening\" the street. This was followed by \"working\" the street, which consisted of regulating, grading, and paving it. Most of the cost of this was passed on to property owners by way of assessments.\n\nThe process began when the Street Commissioner recommended to the Common Council that a certain street, or part of a street, be opened, and the Council would ask the New York State Supreme Court to appoint a Commission of Estimate and Assessment, as described below.\n\nWith the grid inscribed on the landscape with markers and pegs, the actual streets had to be \"opened\", and they also had to be paid for. The city had no great reserve of money, and no regular income stream, so they developed a mechanism to pay for the opening and building of the streets, and for compensating the landowners whose property would be used for them. The 1807 law had specified that the city would calculate damages to the landowners' property as well as assess the benefits the landowners would receive from the new streets. Any disagreement between the parties could then be appealed to the state supreme court. Unfortunately, such a system would not be sufficient for the number of streets and avenues called for by the Commissioners' Plan, so the Common Council approached the state legislature with a new one, which they approved in a new law in April 1813.\n\nIn the new system, the state supreme court would appoint three \"commissioners of appraisal and estimate\" for the street to be openedgenerally local surveyors or other people familiar with the area the street would pass throughto evaluate the cost of the land being taken, and the beneficial value of the new street to the landowner. The appraisal commission could assess the city with as much as a third of the cost of the openingraised to 50% in 1869and the remainder of the cost would come from the difference between the beneficial value and the value of the property. The supreme court would then review the figures and ask for revisions or approve them. The result was \"binding and conclusive.\"\n\nOnce the street was legally \"opened\" with the approval by the court of the commission's figures, the city collected the assessment from the landowners along the street, and once the assessment was totally collected, the streets could be built, or \"worked\". The land was cleared, hills were excavated or hollows filled in, the right of way was leveled and the street was paved. Many years could pass between when a street was \"opened\" and when it finally began to resemble a city street, having been cleared, leveled, graded and paved. The grading was often difficult because of the rocky nature of the island, especially on the West Side. In 1843, Isaacher Cozzens described the ground as \"a tough cement of clay, gravel, and boulders, very hard to dig. In digging through 42nd Street, the pickaxes had to be used for every shovelful of this clayey cement which formed what is called, a hard-pan, of about fourteen feet or more.\"\n\nThe decision on what the elevation of the street would be fell to the Common Council, as the commission for each street was disbanded once the street had been opened. The Council was aggressive in administering the street plan, even causing John Jacob Astor to back down when he challenged their decisions.\n\nOf course, the new system did not stop landowners from appealing the assessments made by the streets commissionsgenerally speaking, landowners who had inherited their property were more inclined to appeal assessments than were land speculators, who simply paid the assessments and waited for the values of their properties to rise, as they inevitably did. The outcomes of the landowner appeals, together with those of the lawsuits against the plan which had been filed as early as 1810, created a body of precedents by which the state law was administered. Most of the appeals failed, in particular those that claimed that the Plan was an unlawful taking of property, since eminent domain was a well-established principle of law, although its use on such an extensive basis in New York City was new.\n\nBecause of the inequities of the street opening and regulating system, in which property owners were assessed multiple times, and it could take years for just a few blocks to be completed, and because of increasing corruption once Tammany Hall came into power, the state legislature changed the system in 1869. In the new arrangement, the city could pay for 50% of the cost of building streets above 14th Street, and up to 100% below that line, through general tax revenues. This new system was very long-lived: it remained in effect until 1961, when a new city charter came into effect.\n\nTammany Hall took the new system in its stride, as it pushed a new city charter through the Tammany-controlled legislature in 1870. The new charter invested most of the city's power in the Board of Apportionment, consisting of the mayor, the comptroller, the commissioner of parks and the commissioner of public works, who were, of course, all Tammany men loyal to William M. \"Boss\" Tweed. These same men, with slight variations, were also the Board of Supervisors, the Board of Audit, and the Board of Street Openings, creating vast new opportunities for graft and corruption. Tweed himself was the head of the Department of Public Works, and controlled when and where the grid would be activated. The pace of the expansion of the grid picked up tremendously, but so did the money going into Tweed's pockets, as Tweed invested in land and then increased its value by opening streets in the areas he had invested in. Tweed's investments were all over the city, but especially on the East Side. Tweed was eventually tried and jailed, but in his wake he left a city whose development had pushed ahead of its previous sluggish pace, as well as a city raked with debt, since rather than raise taxes for the public works he ordered, the city borrowed money on a massive scale, doubling its debt load in just two years, from $36 million in January 1869 to $73 million.\n\nOverall, it took approximately 60 years for the grid to be implemented all the way to 155th Street.\n\nA frequent charge laid by the critics of the Commissioners' Plan is that the excavation and leveling necessary to implement it basically destroyed the topography of Manhattan. Recent studies, however, have shown that while the topography of the island certainly changed, what exists now is not so very different from the original topography as the critics would suggest.\n\nReuben Rose-Redwood and Li Li compared Randel's elevation data to modern data and found that while there had been some levelingin general the West Side had been smoothed out and the East Side had been filled inthe overall average change was low. Rose-Redwood commented: \"[T]he majority of the alterations were only on the order of a few meters or less, and the historical profiles of Manhattan's avenues are very similar to the contemporary transepts of those same thoroughfares.\" Infilling led to an average increase of and excavation to an average decrease of , but the West Side remains hillier than the East Side, just as was the case before the grid. Rose-Redwood writes that \"Manhattan remains an 'island of hills' ...\"\n\nBy 1865, Andrew Haswell Green reported, there had been 38 separate state laws passed which modified the original grid of 1811.\n\nBy far the largest alteration to the Commissioners' Plan was the creation of the Central Park between 59th and 110th Streets and Fifth and Eighth Avenues.\n\nThe concept the park first came up for public discussion around 1850. By and large its advocates were wealthy landowners and merchants, who argued that New York lacked the kind of parks that graced cities such as London and Paris, and that the creation of such a park would enhance New York's reputation as an international city. With the population of the city growing, there was an intense need for public spaces, which the Commissioners' Plan had been notoriously short on providing for. In 1853, the state legislature authorized the city to use eminent domain to acquire the necessary land, and appointed in 1857 a Central Park Commission, led by Andrew Haswell Green to build the park. The commission held a design contest, which was won by Frederick Law Olmsted and Calvert Vaux's \"Greensward plan\". The construction of the park, the first landscaped park in the United States, was completed in 1859, and in 1863 the northern boundary was moved from 106th Street, where it had originally been set, to 110th Street. In 1870 the park passed from state control to local control when a new city charter came into effect.\n\nSignificant to the Commissioners' Plan of 1811 was the fact that Green was an outspoken critic of the grid. In 1867, he convinced the state legislature to give his Central Park Commission the power to make changes in the grid above 59th Street. However, even though few streets in that area had been laid out yet, property lines conformed to the grid, making sweeping changes to it difficult to achieve. Green was able to take advantage of a high ridge and create Morningside Park and Morningside Drive, and also created Riverside Park along the Hudson River; both parks were designed by Olmsted and Vaux. Green also laid out a broad Boulevardnow Broadwayup the center of the West Side.\n\nBecause a formal planning commission in support of the Commissioners' Plan was not created, there was no authority outside of the Common Council to protect its integrity. Thus the elimination of the Grand Parade and the wholesale marketplace and the addition of Union, Tompkins, Stuyvesant and Madison Squares came about, as well as the already noted additions of Lexington and Madison Avenues. Fourth and Sixth Avenues were extended downtown, and Broadway uptown.\n\nOther interruptions of the 1811 plan include college campuses (Columbia University, City College of New York, Fordham University at Lincoln Center), parks (Marcus Garvey Park, St. Nicholas Park; Jackie Robinson Park), hospitals (Mount Sinai Hospital, Metropolitan Hospital, Columbia University Medical Center), churches (the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, Trinity Cemetery and the Church of the Intercession), numerous New York City Housing Authority housing projects, as well as other housing complexes (Stuyvesant Town–Peter Cooper Village, Penn South, Lincoln Towers), cultural institutions (Lincoln Center), American Museum of Natural History, office complexes (Rockefeller Center), and transportation (Grand Central Terminal, Pennsylvania Station), convention (Jacob K. Javits Center), and sports (Madison Square Garden) facilities.\n\nThe Commissioners' Plan of 1811 stopped at 155th Streetexcept for 10th Avenue which was extended to the northern tip of the island but as the city grew, and subsumed what had been independent villages such as Greenwich Village and Manhattanville, it became clear that a plan of action would be needed for the part of Manhattan above that line. The Common Council directed the city's street commissioner to develop a plan for Upper Manhattan in 1851, but no money was allocated for the task, so there was no result. In any case, any street plan for that area would have had a difficult time in extending the simple rectilinear grid created by the Commissioners for the area below 155th Street, because the topography of Upper Manhattan was significantly more difficult to tame, consisting as it does of extremely steep hills, high ridges made of hard Manhattan schist, and deep valleys caused by tectonic fault lines at what is now Dyckman Street, which transects the Fort Washington Ridge; 155th Street; and at 125th Street, which crosses the Manhattan Ridge to create the Manhattanville Valley.\n\nConcerning Manhattanville, even before the publication of the Commissioners' Plan, the Common Council had agreed with the founder of Manhattanville, Jacob Schieffelin, to grade and pave that community's main road, Manhattan Street, which was part of a grid which was rotated significantly farther to the east than the Commissioners' grid would be. When push came to shove, and the question of whether the street they had paid a contractor $600 to create should be demapped and uncreated, the Council decided instead to keep the street, and in 1849 it was officially connected to the western portion of 125th Street, where it remains today, explaining why that street has a bend in it. One other Manhattanville street was also kept, which became the western portion of 126th Street.\n\nWith the need for a street plan for Upper Manhattan, in 1860 the state legislature created another commission, this one of seven residents of Upper Manhattan and called the Fort Washington Commissionwith Olmsted and Vaux as consulting landscape architectsto come up with a plan of action which would not be a copy of the grid plan promulgated by the original Commission. The new plan was to take into account \"the elevated, irregular, and rocky formation of that district\" because it would be \"impracticable and ruinous to land owners, and injurious to the interests of the city, to grade and layout streets and avenues ... upon the present plan of the city.\" However, due to the influence of businesses, land speculators and railroad interests, the plan created by the new commission in 1863 essentially called for an extension of the original grid, and by 1865 the legislature had disbanded the commission, and turned over responsibility for an Upper Manhattan street plan to Andrew Haswell Green's Central Park Commission.\n\nThe commission did extensive due diligence on the area, studying property ownership, population density, sanitation, the jobs of the residents, food and supplies distribution patterns, defensive needs, even the winds and weather of the region, and in 1868, a plan was published which called for grids in the valleys, but also streets, avenues and parks which conformed to the topography of the land. Green said about the results of his commission's plan that it created \"the only portion of Manhattan Island where any trace of its pristine beauty remains undesecrated and unrased by the leveling march of so-called 'public improvements.'\"\n\nSeveral other avenues were added to the grid when Upper Manhattan was developed, such as Riverside Drive, Claremont Avenue, and Saint Nicholas Avenue. The old Bloomingdale Road and Broadwaywhich are pictured on the original 1811 map, but which were not part of the original planned gridwere eventually combined together as Broadway was extended northward; it also took in part of the Kingsbridge Road in upper Manhattan.\n\nUpper Manhattan did not develop exactly as Green and the Central Park Commission envisioned, but its difference from the grid of the Commissioners' Plan is still clear.\n\nFor the most part, with the exception of the streets which were displaced by Central Park, the east–west streets of the Commissioners' Planwhich did not, by design, include Greenwich Villagehave remained as they were originally drawn and numbered. As mentioned above, the western ends of 125th and 126th Streets are another exception, as are some streets around the parks which developed, such as Central Park South. Of course, various streets have been blocked from continuing straight through from one side of the island to the other by parks, apartment complexes, college campuses, and so on, but, in general, the east–west part of the grid is intact.\n\nOne proposal for a change was made in 1915 by Thomas Kennard Thomson, an engineer from Buffalo, New York who settled in New York City after making a career in Canada and the United States as a bridge and railway engineer. Thompson opened an office in New York in 1893 which concentrated on the foundations of skyscrapers and underwater caissons used for building bridges. He was involved in the construction of the Singer Tower, the Manhattan Municipal Building and the Mutual Life Building. His 1915 plan was aimed at relieving congestion at the intersection of Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street. Thompson proposed to run 42nd Street \"under\" Fifth Avenue, and to add a mid-block street between Fifth and Sixth Avenues from 42nd to 43rd Streets to permit the turns that the tunneling would prevent. Why this plan would not simply shift the congestion to the new mid-block connector is not clear. In modern actions to relieve congestion, changes are generally made within the existing right-of-way, therefore without the need to condemn and purchase very expensive Manhattan property.\n\nAs opposed to the east–west streets, the north–south avenues have undergone some significant changes. They have, for one thing, increased in number, and many of them have been re-named over the years.\n\nIn the 1830s and 40s, two additional avenues were interpolated between the original avenues, largely due to the influence of real estate speculator Samuel B. Ruggles: Lexington Avenue, known south of 20th Street as Irving Place, was built between Fourth and Third Avenues to service Ruggles' Gramercy Park development, and Madison Avenue was built between Fourth and Fifth Avenues. Another interpolated avenue, between Fifth and Sixth Avenues from 14th Street to Central Park, was proposed in 1910 by Mayor William Jay Gaynor, who put great effort into promoting it. The plan died, however, when Gaynor was shot by an outraged landowner whose property would be taken for the new road. Gaynor survived, but was not able to put the necessary energy into his proposal, and it faded away. These interpolations were felt necessary because, essentially, the Commissioners had left gaps between Third and Fourth, Fourth and Fifth, and Fifth and Sixth that were too large to allow sufficient real estate development.\n\nOf the Commissioners' original avenues, only First, Second, Third, and Fifth Avenues and Avenues C and D have never been renamed, though some of the named avenues, such as Avenue of the Americas (Sixth), are also known by their numbers.\n\n\nOver the years, portions of Avenue A were renamed Sutton Place in Midtown Manhattan, York Avenue on the Upper East Side and Pleasant Avenue in East Harlem. Portions of Avenue B were also renamed East End Avenue in Yorkville.\n\nBroadway, which was the main north–south artery of the colonial city, originally ended at 10th Street, where it merged with the Bloomingdale Road, which then wandered up to approximately 147th Street, where it turned into the Kingsbridge Road. The combined streets took a fairly haphazard path as they made their way uptown. The Commissioners' Plan retained Broadway and Bloomingdale Road up to 23rd Street, with the intention that the uptown sections would be demapped. However, Bloomingdale Road as far as 43rd Street was officially restored in 1838, up to 71st Street in 1847, then in 1851 to 86th Street, with each section being straightened, often in parallel to the grid, as it was restored. In 1865, it was restored all the way to Spuyten Duyvil Creek, the top of Manhattan. The section below 59th Street was called Broadway, but Andrew Haswell Green called the section from 59th to 108th Street \"The Boulevard\". Finally in 1899, the entire road was named Broadway, and the other names, not only Bloomingdale Road, The Boulevard, and Kingsbridge Road, but also Middle Road, Old Harlem Road and the East Post Road all disappeared. In modern New York City, Broadway, along with the avenues and the major cross-streets, is considered to be one of the major arterial roads.\n\nThe angled course of Broadway below 59th Street creates Herald, Times, Madison and Union Squares. Architect Rafael Viñoly refers to these unplanned intersections as \"happy accidents\".\n\nThe plan was also vociferously criticized from the start, not least because it did not take into account the natural topography of the island, but also because it took no notice of classical ideas about beauty, and was monotonous in its regularity. It was also lambasted for being made in service of monetary interests alone. Among the many critics of the plan were Edgar Allan Poe and Alexis de Tocqueville who believed that it fostered \"relentless monotony\". Walt Whitman, the poet and editor of \"The Brooklyn Eagle\", said of it: \"Our perpetual dead flat and streets cutting each other at right angles, are certainly the last thing in the world consistent with beauty of situation.\"\n\nFrederick Law Olmsted, who would co-design Central Park, and has been called \"the grid's most significant nineteenth-century critic\", facetiously said of the grid's origin:\n\nThere seems to be good authority for the story that the system of 1807 was hit upon by the chance occurrence of a mason's sieve near the map of the ground to be laid out. It was taken up and placed upon the map, and the question being asked \"what do you want better than that?\", no one was able to answer. This may not be the whole story of the plan, but the result is the same as if it were.\n\nOlmsted also said of it in 1858:\n\nThe time will come when New York will be built-up, when all the grading and filling will be done, when the picturesquely varied rock formations of the island will have been converted into the foundations for rows of monotonous straight streets, and piles of erect angular buildings. There will be no suggestion left of its present varied surface, with the single except of the few acres contained in [Central] Park.\n\nOlmsted was clearly no fan of the grid plan: \"The great disadvantage under which New-York labors is one growing out of the senseless manner in which its streets have been laid out. No city is more unfortunately planned with reference to metropolitan attractiveness.\" Still, by 1876, even Olmsted had to admit that the grid had prevailed.\n\nIn 1818, Clement Clarke Moore, the author of \"A Visit from St. Nicholas\"probably better known as \"Twas the Night Before Christmas\"whose estate \"Chelsea\" would be chopped up by the plan, wrote in \"A Plain Statement, addressed to the Proprietors of Real Estate, in the City and County of New York\" :\n\nThe great principle which governs these plans is, to reduce the surface of the earth as nearly as possible to dead level. ... The natural inequities of the ground are destroyed, and the existing water courses disregarded. ... These are men who would have cut down the seven hills of Rome. We live under a tyranny with respects to the rights of property, which ... no monarch in Europe would dare to exercise ... it is a tyranny of the worst kind; for it is under the sanction of laws which shield those who exercise it from being called to legal account. It is time for all who are interested to arouse, and to unite themselves for the maintenance and preservation of their rights.\n\nMoore signed his pamphlet as \"A Landowner\", but it was not long before his identity was exposed. Despite these vehement objections and his call to arms, Moore later made a great deal of money by sub-dividing his estate and developing it section-by-section along the gridded streets. Ironically, it was the landowners like Moore, who fought the grid most insistently, who made the most money from exploiting it.\n\nEdith Wharton bemoaned \"... rectangular New York ... this cramped horizontal gridiron of a town without towers, porticoes, fountains or perspectives, hide-bound in its deadly uniformity of mean ugliness,\" while her friend Henry James wrote that:\n\nNew York pays the penalty of her primal topographic curse, her old inconceivably bourgeois scheme of composition and distribution, the uncollected labor of minds with no imagination of the future and blind before the opportunity given them by their two magnificent water-fronts. This original sin of the longitudinal avenues perpetually, yet meanly intersected, and of the organized sacrifice of the indicated alternative, the great perspectives from East to West, might still have earned forgiveness by some occasional departure from its pettifogging consistency. But, thanks to this consistence, the city is, of all great cities, the least endowed with any blest item of stately square or goodly garden, with any happy accident of surprise, any fortunate nook or casual corner, any deviation, in fine, into the liberal or charming. That way, however, for the regenerate filial mind, madness may be said to liethe way of imagining what might have been and putting it all together in the light of what so helplessly is.\n\nArchitect Julius Harder wrote in 1898 in \"The City's Plan\":\n\nThe street plan ... had only the dubious merit of the most childish regularity and of devoting the maximum proportion of area to building sites. Every consideration of economy of intercommunication, future financial economy, sanitation, healthfulness and aesthetics was absolutely left out of the reckoning.\n\nHistorian and architect Isaac Newton Phelps Stokes wrote in \"The Iconography of Manhattan Island, 1498–1909\", recounting the city's history, that in 1811:\n\nWe have now reached the point where the old city, which had grown up haphazard, with crooked streets, wooded hills, and fertile valleys traversed by streams and winding country roads, begins to be absorbed into a new city, in which antiquity and mature are no longer respected, with streets laid out in accordance with a carefully considered symmetrical plan. ... Unfortunately, this plan, although possessing the merits of simplicity and directness, lacked entirely the equally essential elements of variety of picturesqueness, which demand a large degree of respect for the natural conformation of the land. The new plan was entirely deficient in sentiment and charm, and with its gradual development, little by little, the individuality, the interest, and the beauty of one choice spot after another have been swept away [until] scarcely anything remains to remind us of the primitive beauty and the fascinating diversity of natural charms we know Manhattan once possessed. The year 1811 marks the end of the little old city and the beginning of the great modern metropolis.\n\nNoted architecture critic Lewis Mumford, a vehement protestor against the plan, complained about the \"blank imbecility\" of this \"civic folly\" with its \"long monotonous streets that terminated nowhere, filled by rows of monotonous houses.\" He wrote in \"The City in History\" (1961): \"Such plans fitted nothing but a quick parcelling of the land, a quick conversion of farmsteads into real estate, and a quick sale.\" Thirty years earlier, in \"The Plan of the City\", published in \"The New Republic\" in 1932, he called the grid plan \"a straight-jacket from which [New York City] has not escaped, from which perhaps it can never escape.\"\n\nUrban activist Jane Jacobs noted \"street[s] that go on and on ... dribbling into endless amorphous repetitions ... and finally petering into the utter anonymity of distances,\" and famed architect Frank Lloyd Wright wrote of its \"deadly monotony,\" calling it a \"man trap of gigantic dimensions.\"\n\nAs seen from the vilification in Moore's and James' comments quoted above, the Commissioners came in for as much criticism as the grid itself. Mumford wrote that: \"With a T-square and a triangle, finally, the municipal engineer, without the slightest training as either an architect or a sociologist, could \"plan\" a metropolis ...\" and Montgomery Schuyler, another architecture critic, claimed that \"We all agreedall of us, that is, who pay attention to such thingsthat the Commissioners were public malefactors of high degree.\" Jean Schopfer, writing in \"The Architectural Record\" in 1902, said of them \"Men of genius were needed ... Unhappily, they were ... men devoid of all imagination,\" while historian Thomas Janvier, in his book \"In Old New York\" (1894), wrote of the \"deplorable results\" of \"the excellently dull gentlemen\", and criticized the plan as only \"a grind of money-making.\" He wrote about it that the Commissioners\n\ndecided that the forests should be cut away, the hills levelled , the hollows filled in, the streams buried; and upon the flat surface thus created they clamped down a ruler and completed their Bœotian ... programme by creating a city in which all was right angles and straight lines.\n\nFurther,\n\nUnfortunately, the promise of this far-sighted undertaking was far from being fulfilled in its performance. The magnificent opportunity which was given to the Commissioners to create a beautiful city simply was wasted and thrown away. ... Thinking only of utility and economy ... in the simplest and dullest way ... their Plan fell so far short of what might have been accomplished by men of genius governed by artistic taste. ... [T]hey were surcharged with the dullness and intense utilitarianism of the people and the period of which they were a part.\n\nFrench philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre wrote about New York City in both French and English. He learned to love the city, but also wrote that \"in this immense, malevolent space, in this desert of rock that brooks no vegetation\" he felt lost. \"Amid the numerical anonymity of streets and avenues, I am simply anyone, anywhere, since one place is so like another. I am never astray, but always lost.\" His one essay on New York in English, originally published in \"Town & Country\" in May 1946, was republished as \"New York, Colonial City,\" but the original title was \"Manhattan: The Great American Desert.\"\n\nModern urban analysts often have negative comments about the grid, from Vincent Scully's calling it an \"implacable gridiron\" to the comment of Richard Pluz, an historian of housing, that \"Even in 1811, the gridiron did not work well.\" Urban planner Peter Marcuse wrote that it was \"generally taken to be one of the worst city plans of any major city in the developed countries of the world.\"\n\nUrban historian John W. Reps, in his \"The Making of Urban America\" of 1965, wrote of the grid:\n\nThe unfortunate results of the prejudices and mistakes of the planners of 1811 are well known today. The lack of suitable sites for public buildings, the traffic congestion at the frequent intersections, the lack of enough north–south arteries, the overbuilding on narrow lots that inevitably resulted from the shallow blocksthese are but a few of the shortcomings. But even by the standards of the early nineteenth century the plan was inadequate. In an effort to escape criticism on the grounds of economy and practicality, the commissioners ignored well-known principles of civic design that would have brought variety in street vistas and resulted in focal points for sites for important buildings and use. True enough, no one would have foreseen the rapid growth of the city and the changes in transportation and population that lessened the importance of the river-to-river cross streets while placing an intolerable load on the less numerous north–south avenues. But one cannot avoid the conclusion that the commissioners, in fixing upon their plan, were motivated mainly by narrow consideration of economic gain. Their surveyor, Randel, was later to defend the plan by steadfastly maintaining its utility for the \"buying, selling and improving of real estate.\" As an aid to speculation the commissioners' plan was perhaps unequalled, but only on this ground can it justifiably be called a great achievement.\n\nReps also wrote that \"The fact that it was the gridiron New York that served as a model for later cities was a disaster whose consequences have barely been mitigated by more modern city planners.\"\n\nIn his book, \"City on a Grid: How New York Became New York\", historian Gerard Koeppel says of the Commissioners' Plan that it was \"simply not something that had been deeply thought out,\" and quotes a student of the plan as saying that it was \"a quick solution to a difficult problem\" made by \"apathetic authors, who simply overlaid Manhattan with eight miles of uncompromising grid.\"\n\nFrom its inception, there have been those who sang the praises of the Commissioners' gridiron plan. Writing in 1986, urban analyst David Schuyler said that \"In 1811 the gridiron had been so widely accepted as the optimal street arrangement for a commercial city that the plan received only perfunctory treatment in the presseven though it had a dramatic effect on existing property lines.\"\n\nThe \"Citizens and Strangers Guide\" of 1814 said \"The whole island has been surveyed and framed into extensive avenues and commodious streets, forming an important legacy to posterity, from which the most solid advantages may be anticipated,\" while another commentator from that year wrote \"The arrangement of the original or lower part of the city ... is essentially defective. Beauty order and convenience seem to have been little valued by our ancestors.\" This comment is especially interesting, considering that so many of the critics of the plan would cite its lack of beauty as a reason for their displeasure with it. One critic recently pointed out that the wide avenues attract retail and commercial use, among other benefits. In 1836, an official in the city government wrote that the Plan \"... laid out the highways on the island upon so magnificent a scale, and with so bold a hand, and with such prophetic views, in respect to the future growth and extension of the city, that it will form an everlasting monument to the stability and wisdom of the measure.\"\n\nJames Kent, the eminent jurist and legal scholar, called the plan \"brilliant\", and wrote in 1896:\n\nThe map and plan of the Commissioners laid out the highways on the island upon so magnificent a scale, and with so bold a hand, and with such prophetic views, in respect of the future growth and extension of the city, that it will form an everlasting monument of the stability and wisdom of the measure.\n\nThe lawyer and noted diarist George Templeton Strong enthusiastically embraced the grid and its resulting growth, writing in his diary in 1850:\n\nHow this city marches northward! The progress of 1835 and 1836 was nothing to the luxuriant rank growth of this year. Streets are springing up, whole strata of sandstone have transferred themselves from their ancient resting places to look down on bustling thoroughfares for long years to come. Wealth is rushing in upon us like a freshet.\n\nArchitect Rem Koolhaas in his 1978 book \"Delirious New York\" comments that it created \"undreamed-of freedom for three-dimensional anarchy,\" and called it \"the most courageous act of prediction on Western civilization.\" Koolhaas celebrated the city's \"poetic density\" and sees the architecture of Manhattan as \"a paradigm for the exploitation of congestion\"; indeed he applauds the city's \"culture of congestion.\" Because of the \"magic carpet of the Grid\", \"all blocks are the same, their equivalence invalidates, at once, all the systems of articulation and differentiation that have guided the design of traditional cities. ... [It] made the history of architecture and all previous lessons of urbanism irrelevant. It forces Manhattan's builders to develop a new system of formal values, to invest strategies for the distinction of one block from another.\"\n\nModernist architect Le Corbusier gushed that \"I insist on right-angled intersections\", while Wendy Evans Joseph, another architect, extolled the grid as \"embody[ing] something uniquely American, a democratic transparency, accessible and open to all ... a republican ideal, the synthesis of the rural order of the neatly laid out rows and furrows of the farm with the fiercely competitive, chaotic madness of the city.\"\n\nRafael Viñoly, a Uruguayan-born architect, called the grid \"the best manifestation of American pragmatism in the creation of urban form,\" writing:\n\nIt is the unified formula that controls and organizes the forces that make the city what it is, what it was, and what it will become ... In this compact schema that concentrates prescriptions of scale, density, and serviceability all in one, the play between public and private interests is in the inevitable balance that transcends speculation without restricting liberty. It is the mechanism that has allowed mediocrity to coexist with greatness in a cohesive whole. ... Manhattan ... doesn't need architecture to be validated; it is the consequence of a free game in which the rules are clear and effective to produce it. ... I don't believe this planning grid can be a model for other cities to emulate, nor do I think it can be repeated, but I do believe it is a lesson in consistency and realism ...\n\nOne man argued that it was wrong to expect New York City to be beautiful. Niels Gron, born in Denmark, but very familiar with New York, said in 1900:\n\nBefore I came to this country, and in all the time I have been here, it has never occurred to me to think of New York as being beautiful. Therefore all this talk of beautifying New York seems strange to me. If we were discussing Bismarck I might ask five hundred questions about him before I should think of asking whether he was beautiful. ... So it is with New York. We expect of her power and magnificence, but not beauty. If a European came over here and found that New York was beautiful in the same way as the European cities he knew he would be very much disappointed. I do not see how you can make New York beautiful in that way with the laws and the democratic spirit that you have here The kind of beauty that makes Paris charming can only exist when private rights and personal liberty are or have been trampled on. Only when the mob rules, or where kings rule, so that there is at one time absolutely no respect for the property of the rich and at another time for the rights of the poor can the beauties of Paris be realized.\n\nJournalist James Traub wrote that \"Manhattan is a remorseless place to which its citizens are peculiarly adapted. and of which out-of-towners seem unaccountably fond. It was designed that way. ... I would never say that what I love about New York is its \"utility,\" but I would say that the utilitarian street plan has made possible the helter-skelter, pell-mell life of the citywhich is what I do love.\"\n\nIn 2013, Hilary Ballon, the curator of \"The Greatest Grid: The Master Plan of Manhattan 1811–2011\", an exhibit at the Museum of the City of New York, wrote about the Commissioners' Plan:\n\n[I]n our fast changing world where technology is outdated in a blink and future-proofing is the gold standard, the grid has demonstrated remarkable flexibility. Over two hundred years, the scale of architecture has changed from three-story walk-ups to skyscrapers more than 1,000 feet tall. Parks and avenues unanticipated by the plan have been created. The grid gave rise to a particular kind of urbanism. Unlike Washington, D.C., and the capital cities of Europe, New York does not have axial avenues that focus on star buildings. New York has buildings that sit cheek by jowl and anonymously form street walls. It has narrow canyons of space bounded by those street walls with views of the horizon. It has density and enclosure but also the thrill of open-ended space. Yet when modernist urban theories turned against the vernacular urbanism of New York, and superblocks and towers in the park were imposed on the city, the grid absorbed those inventions. Although New York's real estate dynamism is typically associated with disrespect for history, with buildings toppled for the next generation of taller ones, the 1811 grid endures as living history. The plan leaves its imprint on every block, lot, and building in Manhattan, and has provided a remarkably flexible framework for growth and change.\n\nBallon continues:\n\nTo early visitors, the grid was disorienting: the streets looked alike and offered no landmarks or mnemonic devices to distinguish one from the other. However, as New York matured and the grid was inflected by different neighborhoods, the disorientation of the grid lapsed. Amid the city's plenitude and infinite variety, the grid and its number address system provided an orienting framework. It requires no insider knowledge to find an address; visitors can easily navigate, except where the city is off the grid. New York's street system creates such transparency and accessibility that the grid serves as metaphor for the openness of New York itself!\n\nJournalist and author David Owen wrote in his book \"Green Metropolis\" (2009) that \"Gridlike street plans may seem unimaginative, but they increase the mobility of pedestrians and are almost always self-explanatory; walking in much of Manhattan, even in areas where the distances between avenues is great, is like walking on a map.\" Similarly, economist Edward Glaeser, author of \"Triumph of the City\" (2011), wrote that \"Manhattan's grid imposes clarity on the island's burbling chaos and enables ordinary pedestrians to negotiate New York's complex ecosystem. While many city plans are more beautiful in the abstract, none has dome more to facilitate the magnificent energy of the flowing human city. The grid makes manageable the messy humanity of millions. ... It may not be every urban planner's \"beau ideal\", but as a machine for urban living, the grid is pretty perfect.\"\n\nIn \"The Shape of Green\", architect Lance Hosey writes that the grid is well-adapted to its natural setting:\n\nThe plan of Manhattan is smarter than conventional wisdom concedes. Not a square grid, most of the streets run river to river instead of uptown and down, partly because the planners assumed that maritime commerce along the riverfronts would create more crosstown traffic. The blocks are nearly five times longer in the east–west dimension (avenue to avenue) than in the north–south (street to street), so most buildings avoid the low morning and afternoon sun, thereby ensuring plenty of light without too much heat. Because the grid sits at a twenty-nine-degree angle off of true north, potentially every building on every street can receive direct daylight every day of the year.\n\nFinally, Roland Barthes, the French literary theorist, philosopher, linguist, critic, and semiotician, wrote in 1959: \"This is the purpose of New York's geometry: that each individual should be \"poetically\" the owner of the capital of the world.\"\n\n\nInformational notes\nCitations\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "19873779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19873779", "title": "Composite Gazetteer of Antarctica", "text": "Composite Gazetteer of Antarctica\n\nThe Composite Gazetteer of Antarctica (CGA) of the Scientific Committee on Antarctic Research (SCAR) is the authoritative international gazetteer containing all the Antarctic toponyms published in national gazetteers, plus basic information about those names and the relevant geographical features. The Gazetteer includes also parts of the International Hydrographic Organization (IHO) General Bathymetric Chart of the Oceans (GEBCO) gazetteer for under-sea features situated south of 60° south latitude.\n\n, the overall content of the CGA amounts to 37,834 geographic names for 19,744 features including some 500 features with two or more entirely different names, contributed by the following sources:\n\nCountry / Official authority:\n\nArgentina: Instituto Geográfico Nacional, Servicio de Hidrografía Naval<br>\nAustralia: Australian Antarctic Division Place Names Committee<br>\nBulgaria: Antarctic Place-names Commission<br>\nCanada: Geographical Names Board of Canada<br>\nChile: Instituto Hidrográfíco y Oceanográfico de la Armada de Chile (SHOA) and Instituto Geográfico Militar (IGM)<br>\nChina: Chinese Place-names Committee<br>\nFrance: Commission de Toponymie des TAAF, Institut Géographique National (Commission of Toponymy of TAAF, National Geographic Institute)<br>\nGermany: Ständiger Ausschuß für Geographische Namen (Permanent committee on geographical names)<br>\nItaly: Comitato per i nomi geografici antartici (Antarctic geographic names Committee)<br>\nJapan: Antarctic Place-names Committee of Japan<br>\nNew Zealand: Antarctic Place-names Committee of New Zealand<br>\nNorway: Antarctic Place-names Committee of Norway, Norsk Polarinstitutt<br>\nPoland: Committee of Polar Research of the Polish Academy of Sciences<br>\nRussia: Russian Interministerial Commission on Geographical Names<br>\nUK: British Antarctic Survey UK Antarctic Place-names Committee<br>\nUruguay: Instituto Antártico Uruguayo<br>\nUnited States: United States Board on Geographic Names<br>\nGEBCO: GEBCO Sub-Committee on Undersea Feature Names\n\n"}
{"id": "370878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=370878", "title": "Dialect continuum", "text": "Dialect continuum\n\nA dialect continuum or dialect chain is a spread of language varieties spoken across some geographical area such that neighbouring varieties differ only slightly, but the differences accumulate over distance so that widely separated varieties are not mutually intelligible. That happens, for example, across large parts of India (the Indo-Aryan languages) or the Arab world (Arabic). Historically, it also happened in various parts of Europe such as between Portugal, southern Belgium (Wallonia) and southern Italy (Western Romance languages) and between Flanders and Austria (German dialects). Leonard Bloomfield used the name dialect area. Charles F. Hockett used the term L-complex. It is analogous to a ring species in evolutionary biology.\n\nDialect continua typically occur in long-settled agrarian populations, as innovations spread from their various points of origin as waves. In this situation, hierarchical classifications of varieties are impractical. Instead, dialectologists map variation of various language features across a dialect continuum, drawing lines called isoglosses between areas that differ with respect to some feature.\n\nTo decide what is a dialect and what a language, the German linguist Heinz Kloss developed the abstand and ausbau language framework.\n\nSince the early 20th century, the increasing dominance of nation-states and their standard languages has been steadily eliminating the nonstandard dialects that comprise dialect continua, making the boundaries ever more abrupt and well-defined.\n\nDialectologists record variation across a dialect continuum using maps of various features collected in a linguistic atlas, beginning with an atlas of German dialects by Georg Wenker (from 1888), based on a postal survey of schoolmasters. The influential \"Atlas linguistique de la France\" (1902–10) pioneered the use of a trained fieldworker. These atlases typically consist of \"display maps\", each showing local forms of a particular item at the survey locations.\n\nSecondary studies may include \"interpretive maps\", showing the areal distribution of various variants. A common tool in these maps is an isogloss, a line separating areas where different variants of a particular feature predominate.\n\nIn a dialect continuum, isoglosses for different features are typically spread out, reflecting the gradual transition between varieties. A bundle of coinciding isoglosses indicates a stronger dialect boundary, as might occur at geographical obstacles or long-standing political boundaries. In other cases, intersecting isoglosses and more complex patterns are found.\n\nStandard varieties may be developed and codified at one or more locations in a continuum, a process known as \"ausbau\", until they have independent cultural status, or autonomy. Speakers of local varieties typically read and write a related standard variety, use it for official purposes, hear it on radio and television, and consider it the standard form of their speech, so that any standardizing changes in their speech are towards that variety. In such cases the local variety is said to be dependent on, or heteronomous with respect to, the standard variety.\n\nA standard variety together with its dependent varieties is commonly considered a \"language\", with the dependent varieties called \"dialects\" of the language, even if the standard is mutually intelligible with another standard from the same continuum. The Scandinavian languages, Danish, Norwegian and Swedish, are often cited as examples. Conversely, a language defined in this way may include local varieties that are mutually unintelligible, such as the German dialects.\n\nThe choice of standard is often determined by a political boundary, which may cut across a dialect continuum.\nAs a result, speakers on either side of the boundary may use almost identical varieties, but treat them as dependent on different standards, and thus part of different \"languages\".\nThe various local dialects then tend to be leveled towards their respective standard varieties, disrupting the previous dialect continuum.\nExamples include the boundaries between Dutch and German, between Czech, Slovak and Polish, and between Belarusian and Ukrainian.\n\nThe choice may be a matter of national, regional or religious identity, and may be controversial.\nExamples of controversies are regions such as the disputed territory of Kashmir, in which local Muslims usually regard their language as Urdu, the national standard of Pakistan, while Hindus regard the same speech as Hindi, an official standard of India.\n\nIn the Yugoslav republic of Macedonia, a standard was developed from local varieties within a continuum with Serbia to the north and Bulgaria to the east. The standard was deliberately based on varieties from the west of the republic that were most different from standard Bulgarian.\nNow known as Macedonian, it is the national standard of the independent Republic of Macedonia, but viewed by Bulgarians as a dialect of Bulgarian.\n\nEurope provides several examples of dialect continua, the largest of which involve the Germanic, Romance and Slavic branches of the Indo-European language family, the continent's largest language groups.\n\nThe Romance area spanned much of the territory of the Roman Empire, but was split into western and eastern portions by the Slav Migrations into the Balkans in the 7th and 8th centuries.\n\nThe Slavic area was in turn split by the Hungarian conquest of the Carpathian Basin in the 9th and 10th centuries.\n\nThe Germanic languages and dialects of Scandinavia are a classic example of a dialect continuum, from Swedish dialects in Finland, to Swedish, Gutnish, Elfdalian, Scanian, Danish, Norwegian (Bokmål and Nynorsk), Faroese, Icelandic, with many local dialects of those languages. The Continental North Germanic languages (Swedish, Danish, and Norwegian) are close enough and intelligible enough for some to consider them to be dialects of the same language, but the Insular ones (Icelandic and Faroese) are not immediately intelligible to the other North Germanic speakers.\n\nHistorically, the Dutch, Frisian and German dialects formed a perfect dialect continuum, which has been gradually falling apart since the Late Middle Ages due to the pressures of modern education, standard languages, migration and weakening knowledge of the dialects.\n\nThe transition from German dialects to Dutch variants followed two basic routes: \n\nThough the internal dialect continua of both Dutch and German remain largely intact, the continuum which historically connected the Dutch, Frisian and German languages has largely disintegrated. Fragmentary areas of the Dutch-German border in which language change is more gradual than in other sections or a higher degree of mutual intelligibility is present still exist, such as the Aachen-Kerkrade area, but the historical chain in which dialects were only divided by minor isoglosses and negligible differences in vocabulary has seen a rapid and ever-increasing decline since the 1850s. \n\nStandard Dutch (based on the dialects of the principal Brabantic and Hollandic cities) and Standard German (originating at the chanceries of Meissen and Vienna) are not closely linked with regard to their ancestral dialects and hence do not show a high degree of mutual intelligibility when spoken and only partially so when written. One study concluded that when concerning written language, Dutch speakers could translate 50.2% of the provided German words correctly, while the German subjects were able to translate 41.9% of the Dutch equivalents correctly. In terms of orthography, 22% the vocabulary of Dutch and German is identical or near identical.\n\nThe Germanic dialects spoken on the island of Great Britain, which are usually called \"English\" in England and \"Scots\" in Scotland, are often mutually intelligible in areas along the border. The Orcadian dialect of Scots is very different from the various dialects of English in southern England, but they are linked by a chain of intermediate steps.\n\nThe western continuum of Romance languages comprises, from West to East: in Portugal, Portuguese; in Spain, Galician, Leonese or Asturian, Castilian or Spanish, Aragonese and Catalan or Valencian; in France, Occitan, Franco-Provençal, standard French and Corsican which is closely related to Italian; in Italy, Piedmontese, Italian, Lombard, Venetian, Friulian, Ladin; and in Switzerland, Romansh and other languages with fewer speakers. This continuum is sometimes presented as another example, but the major languages in the group have had separate standards for longer than the languages in the Continental West Germanic group, and so are not commonly classified as dialects of a common language.\n\nFocusing instead on the local Romance lects that pre-existed the establishment of national or regional standard languages, all evidence and principles point to \"Romania continua\" as having been, and to varying extents in some areas still being, what Charles Hockett called an L-complex, i.e. an unbroken chain of local differentiation such that, in principle and with appropriate caveats, intelligibility (due to sharing of features) attenuates with distance. This is perhaps most evident today in Italy, where, especially in rural and small-town contexts, local Romance is still often employed at home and work, and geolinguistic distinctions are such that while native speakers from any two nearby towns can understand each other with ease, they can also spot from linguistic features that the other is from elsewhere.\n\nIn recent centuries, the intermediate dialects between the major Romance languages have been moving toward extinction, as their speakers have switched to varieties closer to the more prestigious national standards. That has been most notable in France, owing to the French government's refusal to recognise minority languages, but it has occurred to some extent in all Western Romance speaking countries. Language change has also threatened the survival of stateless languages with existing literary standards, such as Occitan.\n\nThe Romance languages of Italy are a less arguable example of a dialect continuum. For many decades since Italy's unification, the attitude of the French government towards the ethnolinguistic minorities was copied by the Italian government.\n\nThe eastern Romance continuum is dominated by Romanian in many respects. Romanian is spoken throughout Romania and its dialects meet the Moldovan registers spoken across the border in Moldova. Romanians believe the Moldovan language to be a dialect (grai) of Romanian, but some separatist political forces in the Republic of Moldova claim that Moldovan is a separate language. Outside Romania, across the other south-east European countries, various Romanian language groups are to be found: pockets of various Romanian and Aromanian subgroups survive throughout Serbia, Macedonia, Greece, Albania and Croatia (in Istria).\n\nEast Slavic consists of the Russian, Belarusian, Rusyn and Ukrainian languages. \n\nThe Rusyn and western Belarusian dialects have in turn been influenced by neighboring West Slavic languages such as Slovak and Polish (due to the historical ties between the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth).\n\nAll South Slavic languages form a dialect continuum. It comprises, from West to East, Slovenia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia, Macedonia, and Bulgaria. Standard Slovene, Macedonian, and Bulgarian are each based on a distinct dialect, but the Bosnian, Croatian, Montenegrin, and Serbian standard varieties of the pluricentric Serbo-Croatian language are all based on the same dialect, Shtokavian.\n\nTherefore, Croats, Serbs, Bosniaks and Montenegrins communicate fluently with each other in their respective standardized varieties. On the other hand, Croats speaking one dialect (Kajkavian) can hardly communicate with Croats who speak a different dialect (Chakavian). The same is true for Serbian Shtokavian and Torlakian dialects. The latter is closer to the Eastern South Slavic languages (Bulgarian and Macedonian) than to Western South Slavic. They share a set of grammatical features that set them apart from all other Slavic languages.\n\nThe barrier between \"East South Slavic\" and \"West South Slavic\" is historical and natural, caused primarily by geographical distance between speakers. The two varieties started diverging early on (circa 11th century CE) and evolved separately ever since without major mutual influence, as evidenced by distinguishable Old Bulgarian, while western dialect of common Old Slavic was still spoken in modern Serbo-Croatian area in 12th and early 13th century. An intermediate dialect linking western and eastern variations thus came into existence, to facilitate communication, over time – Torlakian – spoken on the fringes of Bulgaria, Macedonia (northern) and Serbia (eastern).\n\nThe West Slavic languages consist of Czech, Polish, Slovak, Silesian, Kashubian, and Sorbian (Upper Sorbian and Lower Sorbian).\n\nWestern Slavic is usually divided into three subgroups, Czecho-Slovak (Czech and Slovak), Lechitic (Polish, Silesian, and Kashubian) and Sorbian (Upper and Lower). All West Slavic languages share a high degree of mutual intelligibility towards each other, the most prominent and well-known being between Czech and Slovak.\n\nThe other major language family in Europe besides Indo-European are the Uralic languages. The Sami languages, sometimes mistaken for a single language, are a dialect continuum, albeit with some disconnections like between North, Skolt and Inari Sami. The Baltic-Finnic languages spoken around the Gulf of Finland form a dialect continuum. Thus, although Finnish and Estonian are separate languages, there is no definite linguistic border or isogloss that separates them. Recognition of this fact is however more difficult today because many of the intervening languages have declined or gone extinct.\n\nTurkic languages are best described as a dialect continuum. Geographically this continuum starts at the Balkans in the west with Balkan Turkish, includes Turkish in Turkey and Azerbaijani language in Azerbaijan, extends into Iran with Azeri and Khalaj, into Iraq with Turkmen, across Central Asia to include Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, to southern Regions of Tajikistan and into Afghanistan. In the south, the continuum starts in northern Afghanistan, northward to the Chuvashia. In the east it extends to the Republic of Tuva, the Xinjiang autonomous region in Western China with the Uyghur language and into Mongolia with Khoton. The entire territory is inhabited by Turkic speaking peoples. There are three varieties of Turkic geographically outside the continuum: Chuvash, Yakut and Dolgan. They have been geographically separated from the other Turkic languages for an extensive period of time, and Chuvash language stands out as the most divergent from other Turkic languages.\n\nThere are also Gagauz speakers in Moldavia and Urum speakers in Georgia.\n\nThe Turkic continuum makes internal genetic classification of the languages problematic. Chuvash, Khalaj and Yakut are generally classified as significantly distinct, but the remaining Turkic languages are quite similar, with a high degree of mutual intelligibility between not only geographically adjacent varieties but also among some varieties some distance apart. Structurally, the Turkic languages are very close to one another, and they share basic features such as SOV word order, vowel harmony and agglutination.\n\nArabic is a standard case of diglossia. The standard written language, Modern Standard Arabic, is based on the Classical Arabic of the Qur'an, while the modern vernacular dialects (or languages) branched from Classical Arabic a few hundred years earlier , from North Western Africa through Egypt, Sudan, and the Fertile Crescent to the Arabian Peninsula and Iraq. The dialects use different analogues from the huge Arabic language inventory, use different shortcuts and have been influenced by different substrate and superstrate languages. Adjacent dialects are mutually understandable to a large extent, but those from distant regions are not at all.\n\nThe difference between the written standard and the vernaculars is apparent also in the written language, and children have to be taught Modern Standard Arabic in school to be able to read it.\n\nIn Assyrian Neo-Aramaic the continuum starts from the Assyrian tribes in northern Iraq (Alqosh, Batnaya), which are at times considered part of the Chaldean Neo-Aramaic language. Nearing the Northern Iraqi-Turkey border, the Barwar and Tyari dialects would begin to sound \"traditionally Assyrian\". The Barwar and Tyari dialects are \"transitional\", having both Chaldean and Assyrian phonetic features.\n\nIn Hakkari, as one goes eastbound towards Iran, the Gawar, Baz, Jilu and Nochiya dialects would respectively begin to sound slightly distinct to the Tyari/Barwar dialects in the west and more like the prestigious \"Urmian\" dialect in Urmia, Western Azerbaijan, which is considered the \"Standard Assyrian\" dialect, alongside the \"Iraqi Koine\". The dialects in Northern Iraq (or \"far west\" in this continuum), such as those of \"Alqosh\" and \"Batnaya\", would not be completely intelligible to those in Western Iran (\"far east\") even if the same language is spoken. \n\nGoing further westward, the \"dialect\" of Tur Abdin in Turkey, known as Turoyo, has a very distinct pronunciation of words and a different vocabulary to some extent. Turoyo is usually considered to be a discrete language rather than a mere dialect of Assyrian Neo-Aramaic. Finally, both Assyrian and Turoyo are considered to be dialects of the Syriac language.\n\nThe Persian language in its various varieties (Farsi in Iran, Dari in Afghanistan and Tajik in Tajikistan and other parts of the former Soviet Union, is representative of a dialect continuum. The divergence of Tajik was accelerated by the shift from the Perso-Arabic alphabet to a Cyrillic one under the Soviets. Western dialects of Persian show greater influence from Arabic and Oghuz Turkic languages, but Dari and Tajik tend to preserve many classical features in grammar and vocabulary.\n\nMany of the Indo-Aryan languages of Northern India (including Assam Valley as for the language Assamese) and Pakistan form a dialect continuum. What is called \"Hindi\" in India is frequently Standard Hindi, the Sanskritized register of the colloquial Hindustani spoken in the Delhi area since the Mughals, the other register being Urdu. However, the term Hindi is also used for the different dialects from Bihar to Rajasthan and, more widely, some of the Eastern and Northern dialects are called Hindo. The Indo-Aryan Prakrits also gave rise to languages like Gujarati, Assamese, Maithili, Bengali, Odia, Nepali, Marathi, Konkani and Punjabi.\n\nChinese consists of hundreds of local varieties, many of which are not mutually intelligible.\nThe differences are similar to those within the Romance languages, which are similarly descended from a language spread by imperial expansion over substrate languages 2000 years ago.\nUnlike Europe, however, Chinese political unity was restored in the late 6th century and has persisted (with interludes of division) until the present day.\nThere are no equivalents of the local standard literary languages that developed in the numerous independent states of Europe.\n\nChinese dialectologists have divided the local varieties into a number of dialect groups, largely based on phonological developments in comparison with Middle Chinese.\nMost of these groups are found in the rugged terrain of the southeast, reflecting the greater variation in this area, particularly in Fujian.\nEach of these groups contains numerous mutually unintelligible varieties.\nMoreover, in many cases the transitions between groups are smooth, as a result of centuries of interaction and multilingualism.\n\nThe boundaries between the northern Mandarin area and the central groups, Wu, Gan and Xiang, are particularly weak, due to the steady flow of northern features into these areas.\nTransitional varieties between the Wu, Gan and Mandarin groups have been variously classified, with some scholars assigning them to a separate Hui group.\nThe boundaries between Gan, Hakka and Min are similarly indistinct.\nPinghua and Yue form a dialect continuum (excluding urban enclaves of Cantonese).\nThere are sharper boundaries resulting from more recent expansion between Hakka and Yue, and between Southwestern Mandarin and Yue, but even here there has been considerable convergence in contact areas.\n\nCree is a group of closely related Algonquian languages that are distributed from Alberta to Labrador in Canada. They form the Cree-Montagnais-Naskapi dialect continuum, with around 117,410 speakers. The languages can be roughly classified into nine groups, from west to east:\n\n\nVarious Cree languages are used as languages of instruction and taught as subjects: Plains Cree, Eastern Cree, Montagnais, etc. Mutual intelligibility between some dialects can be low. There is no accepted standard dialect.\n\nOjibwa (Chippewa) is a group of closely related Algonquian languages in Canada, which is distributed from British Columbia to Quebec, and the United States, distributed from Montana to Michigan, with diaspora communities in Kansas and Oklahoma. With Cree, the Ojibwe dialect continuum forms its own continuum, but the Oji-Cree language of this continuum joins the Cree–Montagnais–Naskapi dialect continuum through Swampy Cree. The Ojibwe continuum has 70,606 speakers. Roughly from northwest to southeast, it has these dialects:\n\n\nUnlike the Cree–Montagnais–Naskapi dialect continuum, with distinct n/y/l/r/ð dialect characteristics and noticeable west-east k/č(ch) axis, the Ojibwe continuum is marked with vowel syncope along the west-east axis and ∅/n along the north-south axis.\n\n"}
{"id": "5305474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5305474", "title": "Don Leo Jonathan", "text": "Don Leo Jonathan\n\nDon Heaton (April 29, 1931 – October 13, 2018), also known as Don Leo Jonathan, was an American-Canadian professional wrestler.\n\nJonathan, nicknamed \"The Mormon Giant\" was a second generation star (his father was former wrestler Brother Jonathan) who made his professional wrestling debut after World War II. Over the course of his career, he competed around the world, making stops in Europe, South Africa, Australia and Japan; he wrestled more often, however, in the United States and Canada. His first championship wins occurred in Montreal with the International Wrestling Association, where he twice captured their International Heavyweight title.\n\nElsewhere in Canada, Jonathan found more success competing in Toronto's National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) affiliate Maple Leaf Wrestling (where he first teamed with Gene Kiniski to win the Canadian Open Tag Team title, in 1959) and in Winnipeg, where he wrestled for NWA member Alex Turk Promotions (twice winning their International Tag Team title) and for the American Wrestling Association. Jonathan also got a taste of World heavyweight gold when he won the AWA-affiliated Omaha territory's version of the World title three times in 1961.\n\nCanada eventually became home to Jonathan in the early 1960s as he settled in the Vancouver suburb of Langley. Making Vancouver his home base, he competed frequently for NWA All Star Wrestling, winning five Pacific Coast Heavyweight titles between 1970 and 1977, the NWA World Tag Team title (with Dominic Denucci) in 1966, and a record 18 Canadian Tag Team titles between 1964 and 1978, as well as challenging for the NWA World Heavyweight Championship against such titleholders as Kiniski, Dory Funk, Jr. and Jack Brisco; he also engaged in feuds with Kiniski and Dutch Savage in All Star, as well as teaming with them. On May 31, 1972, in what was billed as the \"match of the century,\" Jonathan defeated Le Géant Jean Ferré (André the Giant) by disqualification. On September 7, 1972, in a match which was billed as the \"Battle of the Giants\" Jonathan had a rematch against André, this time losing by disqualification. In 1973 he wrestled in the WWWF and fought Pedro Morales for the championship as a heel. Late in his career, he appeared as one of the wrestlers in the 1978 Sylvester Stallone movie \"Paradise Alley\".\n\nJonathan wrestled his final match, teaming with André the Giant and Roddy Piper to defeat The Sheepherders and Buddy Rose in Vancouver on March 10, 1980, before retiring from the ring that year. On November 5, 2005, he appeared at an event in Surrey, British Columbia, presented by Top Ranked Wrestling (prior to its purchase by ) to be honored in a special ceremony for his contributions to the sport. On May 20, 2006, he was inducted into the Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame in Amsterdam, New York.\n\nJonathan was born in Hurricane, Utah and raised as a Mormon. He played high school football and learned martial arts. Before entering the world of professional wrestling, Jonathan was a sailor in the United States Navy.\n\nHe lived in Vancouver, British Columbia since 1963. He was married to a woman named Rose. After retiring from professional wrestling, he pursued a career in underwater inventions and exploration. He survived bladder cancer.\n\nIn July 2016, Jonathan was named part of a class action lawsuit filed against WWE which alleged that wrestlers incurred traumatic brain injuries during their tenure and that the company concealed the risks of injury. The suit is litigated by attorney Konstantine Kyros, who has been involved in a number of other lawsuits against WWE. A month before his death, US District Judge Vanessa Lynne Bryant dismissed the lawsuit.\n\nJonathan entered a British Columbia hospital at the end of August 2018 and died there on October 13, aged 87.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9473941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9473941", "title": "East Asian religions", "text": "East Asian religions\n\nIn the study of comparative religion, the East Asian religions form a subset of the Eastern religions. This group includes Chinese religion overall, which further includes Ancestral Worship, Chinese folk religion, Confucianism, Taoism and so-called popular salvationist organisations (such as Yiguandao and Weixinism), as well as elements drawn from Mahayana Buddhism that form the core of Chinese Buddhism and East Asian Buddhism at large. The group also includes Japanese Shintoism and Korean Sindoism (both meaning \"Ways of Gods\" and identifying the indigenous shamanic religion and ancestor worship of such peoples), which have received influences from Chinese religions throughout the centuries. Vietnamese Buddhism is also heavily Influenced by Ancestor Worship, and Mahayana Buddhism. Chinese salvationist religions have influenced the rise of Korean and Japanese new religions—for instance, respectively, Jeungsanism, and Tenriism; these movements draw upon indigenous traditions but are heavily influenced by Chinese philosophy and theology.\n\nAll these traditions, more or less, share core Chinese concepts of spirituality, divinity and world order, including Tao 道 (\"Way\"; pinyin \"dào\", Japanese \"tō\" or \"dō\", and Korean \"do\") and Tian 天 (\"Heaven\"; Japanese \"ten\", and Korean \"cheon\").\n\nEarly Chinese philosophies defined the Tao and advocated cultivating the \"de\", \"virtue\", which arises from the knowledge of such Tao. Some ancient schools merged into traditions with different names or became extinct, such as Mohism (and many others of the Hundred Schools of Thought), which was largely absorbed into Taoism. East Asian religions include many theological stances, including polytheism, nontheism, henotheism, monotheism, pantheism, panentheism and agnosticism. East Asian religions have many Western adherents, though their interpretations may differ significantly from traditional East Asian religious thought and culture.\n\nThe place of East Asian religions among major religious groups is comparable to the Abrahamic religions found in Europe and the Western World as well as across the Middle East and the Muslim World and Indian religions across South Asia.\n\nDespite a wide variety of terms, the traditions described as \"Far Eastern religions\", \"East Asian religions\" or \"Chinese religions\" are recognised by scholars as a distinct religious family.\n\nSyncretism is a common feature of East Asian religions, often making it difficult to recognise individual faiths. Further complications arise from the inconsistent use of many terms. \"Tao religion\" is often used for Taoism itself, as well as being used for many Tao-based new religious movements.\n\nThe term \"Far Eastern religion\" may be used to refer only to faiths incorporating the concept of Tao, may include Ch'an and Japanese Buddhism, and may even inclusively refer to all Asian religions.\n\nThe Tao may be roughly defined as the flow of reality, of the universe, or the force behind the natural order. Believed to be the influence that keeps the universe balanced and ordered, the Tao is associated with nature, due to a belief that nature demonstrates the Tao. Similar to the negative theology of Western scholars, the Tao is compared to what it is not. It is often considered to be the source of both existence and non-existence.\n\nThe Tao is often associated with a \"virtue\" of being, the \"de\" or \"te\". This is considered the active expression of Tao. Generally, those religions closer to Taoism explain \"de\" as \"integrity\" or \"wholeness\", while those faiths closer to Confucianism express this concept as \"morality\" or \"sound character\".\n\nTaoism consists of a wide variety of religious, philosophical and ritual orders. There are hermeneutic (interpretive) difficulties in the categorisation of Taoist schools, sects and movements.\n\nTaoism does not fall strictly under an umbrella or a definition of an organised religion like the Abrahamic traditions, nor can it purely be studied as a variant of Chinese folk religion, as much of the traditional religion is outside of the tenets and core teachings of Taoism. Robinet asserts that Taoism is better understood as a way of life than as a religion, and that its adherents do not approach or view Taoism the way non-Taoist historians have done.\n\nIn general, Taoist propriety and ethics place an emphasis on the unity of the universe, the unity of the material world and the spiritual world, the unity of the past, present and future, as well as on the Three Jewels of the Tao (love, moderation, humility). Taoist theology focuses on doctrines of wu wei (\"non-action\"), spontaneity, relativity and emptiness.\n\nTraditional Chinese Taoist schools accept polytheism, but there are differences in the composition of their pantheon. On the popular level, Taoism typically presents the Jade Emperor as the head deity. Professionalised Taoism (i.e. priestly orders) usually presents Laozi and the Three Pure Ones at the top of the pantheon.\n\nWorship of nature deities and ancestors is common in popular Taoism, while professional Taoists put an emphasis on internal alchemy. The Tao is never an object of worship, being treated more like the Indian concept of atman.\n\nConfucianism is a complex system of moral, social, political, and religious thought, influential in the history of East Asia. It is commonly associated with legalism, but actually rejects legalism for ritualism. It also endorses meritocracy as the ideal of nobility. Confucianism includes a complicated system governing duties and etiquette in relationships. Confucian ethics focus on familial duty, loyalty and humaneness.\n\nConfucianism recognises the existence of ancestral spirits and deities, advocating paying them proper respect. Confucian thought is notable as the framework upon which the syncretic Neo-Confucianism was built.\n\nNeo-Confucianism was developed in reaction to Taoism and Chan Buddhism. It was formulated during the Song dynasty, but its roots may be traced to scholars of the Tang dynasty. It draw Buddhist religious concepts and Taoist yin yang theory, as well as the \"Yijing\", and placed them within the framework of classic Confucianism.\n\nDespite Neo-Confucianism's incorporation of elements of Buddhism and Taoism, its apologists still decried both faiths. Neo-Confucianism was an officially endorsed faith for over five centuries, deeply influencing all of East Asia.\n\nNew Confucianism is a modernist Confucianism, which accommodates modern science and democratic ideals, while remaining conservative in preserving traditional Neo-Confucianist positions. The influence of New Confucianism prompted since Deng Xiaoping became the leader of China in 1978 and helped cultural exchanges between China and Taiwan.\n\nShintoism is the ethnic religion of Japan. Shinto literally means \"Way of the Gods\". Shinto practitioners commonly affirm tradition, family, nature, cleanliness and ritual observation as core values.\n\nTaoist influence is significant in their beliefs about nature and self-mastery. Ritual cleanliness is a central part of Shinto life. Shrines have a significant place in Shinto, being places for the veneration of the \"kami\" (gods or spirits). \"Folk\", or \"popular\", Shinto features an emphasis on shamanism, particularly divination, spirit possession and faith healing. \"Sect\" Shinto is a diverse group including mountain-worshippers and Confucian Shinto schools.\n\nThe concepts of Tao and \"de\" are shared by both Taoism and Confucianism. The authorship of the Tao Te Ching, the central book of Taoism, is assigned to Laozi, who is traditionally held to have been a teacher of Confucius. However, some scholars believe that the Tao Te Ching arose as a reaction to Confucianism. Zhuangzi, reacting to the Confucian-Mohist ethical disputes casts Laozi as a prior step to the Mohists by name and the Confucians by implication. However, secular scholars usually consider Laozi and Zhuangzi to have been mythological figures.\n\nEarly Taoist texts reject Confucian emphasis on rituals and order, in favour of an emphasis on \"wild\" nature and individualism. Historical Taoists challenged conventional morality, while Confucians considered society debased and in need of strong ethical guidance.\n\nThe entry of Buddhism into China from India was marked by interaction and syncretism with Taoism in particular. Originally seen as a kind of \"foreign Taoism\", Buddhism's scriptures were translated into Chinese using the Taoist vocabulary. Chan Buddhism was particularly modelled after Taoism, integrating distrust of scripture, text and even language, as well as the Taoist views of embracing \"this life\", dedicated practice and the \"every-moment\". In the Tang period Taoism incorporated such Buddhist elements as monasteries, vegetarianism, prohibition of alcohol, the doctrine of emptiness, and collecting scripture into tripartite organisation. During the same time, Chan Buddhism grew to become the largest sect in Chinese Buddhism.\n\nThe Buddha's \"Dharma\" seemed alien and amoral to conservative and Confucian sensibilities. Confucianism promoted social stability, order, strong families, and practical living, and Chinese officials questioned how monastic lifestyle and personal attainment of enlightenment benefited the empire. However, Buddhism and Confucianism eventually reconciled after centuries of conflict and assimilation.\n\nIdeological and political rivals for centuries, Taoism, Confucianism, and Buddhism deeply influenced one another. They did share some similar values. All three embraced a humanist philosophy emphasising moral behavior and human perfection. In time, most Chinese people identified to some extent with all three traditions simultaneously. This became institutionalised when aspects of the three schools were synthesised in the Neo-Confucian school.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7217678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7217678", "title": "Enterprise Architecture Body of Knowledge", "text": "Enterprise Architecture Body of Knowledge\n\nThe Enterprise Architecture Body of Knowledge (EABOK) is a guide to Enterprise Architecture produced by MITRE's Center for Innovative Computing and Informatics, and is substantially funded by US government agencies. It provides a critical review of enterprise architecture issues in the context of the needs of an organization. Because it provides a \"big picture\" view of needs and methods, some enterprise architecture practitioners recommend it as starting point for a business establishing an enterprise architecture unit.\n\nThe current printable version is marked DRAFT, dated 06-Feb-2004, and edited by Dr Paula J Hagan. It has been approved for public release; distribution unlimited. No updates have been made to any publicly released version of this document since 2004, and the project appears to have been abandoned.\n\nEnterprise architecture practitioners should be aware that the discipline has evolved since the most recent publication: perhaps the most notable being the extensions of DODAF, including MODAF, and the work at the Object Management Group to create a model that satisfies both frameworks.\n\nEABOK (and the discipline it describes) is evolving (and partially incomplete). It places enterprise architecture \"in context\". Because there are so many different frameworks and viewpoints about enterprise architecture, it provides a critique of alternatives (such as between the original Zachman Framework, TOGAF and DODAF). The bibliographies are particularly useful.\n\nIt treats Enterprise Architecture as not including merely diagrams and technical descriptions, but gives a holistic view that includes US legislative requirements and guidance, as well as giving technologists a better understanding of business needs with a quick explanation of the value chain for a business as outlined by Michael Porter.\n\nIt is worth reading between the lines of many sections, the comments make many experienced information systems and business professionals appreciate the EABOK: while it reviews a range of approaches, it is not frightened to put a personal point of view:\nAnother example of possible implied criticism of some EA practitioners:\nWhile many of the references to legislation and guidance are US-centric, the issues and the references are useful to government agencies and businesses across the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2278861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2278861", "title": "General Chinese", "text": "General Chinese\n\nGeneral Chinese ( \"Tung-dzih\") is a diaphonemic orthography invented by Yuen Ren Chao to represent the pronunciations of all major varieties of Chinese simultaneously. It is \"the most complete genuine Chinese diasystem yet published\". It can also be used for the Korean, Japanese, and Vietnamese pronunciations of Chinese characters, and challenges the claim that Chinese characters are required for interdialectal communication in written Chinese.\n\nGeneral Chinese is not specifically a romanization system, but two alternative systems: one (\"Tung-dzih Xonn-dzih\") uses Chinese characters phonetically, as a syllabary of 2082 glyphs, and the other (\"Tung-dzih Lo-maa-dzih\") is an alphabetic romanization system with similar sound values and tone spellings to Gwoyeu Romatzyh.\n\nThe character version of General Chinese uses distinct characters for any traditional characters that are distinguished phonemically in any of the control varieties of Chinese, which consist of several dialects of Mandarin, Wu, Min, Hakka, and Yue. That is, a single syllabic character will only correspond to more than one logographic character when these are homonyms in all control dialects. In effect, General Chinese is a syllabic reconstruction of the pronunciation of Middle Chinese, less distinctions which have been dropped nearly everywhere.\n\nThe result is a syllabary of 2082 syllables, about 80% of which are single morphemes—that is, in 80% of cases there is no difference between GC and standard written Chinese, and in running text, that figure rises to 90–95%, as the most common morphemes tend to be uniquely identified. For example, \"kai\" can only mean 開 \"kāi\" 'open', and \"sam\" can only mean 三 \"sān\" 'three'. Chao notes, \"These syllables then are morphemes, or words with definite meanings, or clusters of meanings related by extensions. About 20 percent of the syllables are homophones under each of which there will be more than one morpheme, [which are traditionally] usually written with different characters [...] The degree of homophony is so low that it will be possible to write text either in literary or colloquial Chinese with the same character for each syllable [...] as has been tested in texts of various styles.\" Chao compares General Chinese to how Chinese was written when the writing system was still productive: \"This amounts to a 100 percent use of writing Chinese by 'phonetic loan' [...] The situation is that when the ancients wrote a character by sound regardless of meaning, it was a 'loan character', whereas if a modern schoolboy writes one, he is punished for writing the wrong character!\"\n\nTaking a telegraphic code-book of about 10,000 characters as a representative list of characters in modern use, Chao notes that General Chinese results in a reduction of 80% in the number of characters needing to be learned.\n\nIn the 20% of cases where a syllable corresponded to more than one word, Chao generally selected the graphically most basic traditional character for General Chinese, as long as it wasn't unduly rare. However, when that character had strong semantic connotations that would have interfered with a phonetic reading, he selected a more neutral character. This phenomenon is familiar from Chinese transcriptions of foreign names.\n\nRomanized General Chinese has distinct symbols for the onsets (many of them digraphs, and a few trigraphs) and the rimes distinguished by any of the control dialects. For example, it retains the final consonants \"p, t, k\", and the distinction between final \"m\" and \"n\", as these are found in several modern dialects, such as Cantonese. General Chinese also maintains the \"round-sharp\" distinction, such as \"sia\" vs. \"hia\", though those are both \"xia\" in Beijing Mandarin. It also indicates the \"muddy\" (voiced) stops of Shanghainese. Indeed, Chao characterized GC as having \"the initial consonants of the Wu dialects [...], the vowels of Mandarin, and the endings of Cantonese. It can, however, be pronounced in any dialect, and it is meant to be, by a relatively short list of rules of pronunciation.\"\n\nLike Chao's other invention, Gwoyeu Romatzyh, romanized General Chinese uses tone spelling. However, the system is somewhat different. The difference between the \"yin\" and \"yang\" tones is indicated by the voicing of the initial consonant, which is possible because the original voicing distinctions are retained. Given that some tones are indicated by changing rather than adding letters, writing tone requires on average only one additional letter for every three syllables of text.\n\nThe digraphs are not reliably featural; for example, the digraphs for the voiced stops do not all follow the same pattern. This is because Chao ran frequency tests, and used single letters for the most common consonants and vowels, while restricting digraphs and trigraphs to the more infrequent ones. Overall, syllables in the texts he transliterated averaged under 3½ letters apiece.\n\nAn example of Romanized General Chinese can be illustrated with Chao's name:\n\nAll the General Chinese initials here are voiced: The \"h\" in \"dh\" shows that this is a \"muddy\" consonant, and the \"q\" in \"qiuan\" represents an initial \"ng-\" (becoming \"g\" in Japanese). This voicing shows up in the Cantonese \"yang\" tones, which are represented by aitches in Yale romanization. \"Heavy\" codas, such as \"remm\", indicate the \"departing\" (去) tone, as in Gwoyeu Romatzyh. Similarly, the spelling \"ao\" in \"dhyao\" indicates the \"rising\" (上) tone, but because of the voiced initial, it merges with \"departing\" in Mandarin and literary Cantonese (though not in colloquial Cantonese). The \"y\" in \"dhyao\" indicates that the initial is a stop in Min, Japanese, and Vietnamese, but otherwise an affricate. Cantonese and Korean retain the final \"m\" of \"remm\". These pronunciations are all predictable given the General Chinese transcription, though it was not designed with the Sinospheric languages specifically in mind. Both the pre-war and post-war Japanese orthographies are recoverable.\n\nIn every control dialect, some syllables with different spellings will be pronounced the same. However, which these are differs from dialect to dialect. There are some irregular correlations: Often a particular variety will have a pronunciation for a syllable that is not what one would expect from other syllables with similar spellings, due to irregular developments in that variety. This is especially true with the voicing of Japanese consonants, which has evolved idiosyncratically in different compound words. However, except for Japanese voicing, the system is phonetic about 90% of the time.\n\nA common argument for retaining Chinese characters is that romanization systems are insufficient to unambiguously represent the Chinese language, due to the large number of homonyms. (However, the Chinese military has found pinyin to be sufficient to telegraph military communications, even without indicating tone.) Because General Chinese makes many distinctions that Pinyin does not, it has many fewer homonyms to confuse the reader. Combine this with the fact that many traditional Chinese characters are restricted to specific compounds, and that many homonymic characters distinguish meanings of what are historically the same word, and which are therefore understandable in context, Chao believed that General Chinese begins to approach the effectiveness of traditional characters in representing Chinese.\n\nCharacter GC has a separate character for each syllable. However, romanized GC has distinct onsets and rhymes. The onsets are as follows:\n\n泥 and 娘 are both transcribed , as these are not distinct in modern dialects. 喻, a conflation of two older initials, 云 \"hy~hw\" and 以 \"y~w\", is transcribed or ∅ according to modern rather than ancient forms; when palatalization is lost, it is transcribed . The palatal and retroflex fricatives 照穿牀審禪 fell together early on in the rime tables of Classical Chinese, but are still distinguished in some modern dialects, and so are distinguished here. The convention for nasal 疑, which drops in many dialects, is repeated in the finals, where it represents with a departing tone.\n\nAlthough to some extent systematic—the retroflex series are digraphs ending in , for example—this is overridden in many cases by the principle of using short transcriptions for common sounds. Thus is used for 精 rather than for the less common 邪, where it might also be expected; is used for frequent 微 rather than for 奉; and and , for the high-frequency 見 and 羣, have the additional benefit of being familiar in their palatalized forms (Peking ~ Beijing for example is -) from English words like \"cello\" and \"gem.\"\n\nThe voiced obstruents (the 濁 \"muddy\" column) are only distinct in Wu dialects. In Min, they are collapsed with the consonants of the tenuis column. Elsewhere they are generally collapsed with the aspirated column in the even tone, and with the tenuis column in other tones. An exception is Cantonese, where in the rising tone they are aspirated in colloquial speech, but tenuis in reading pronunciations. The sonorants do not vary much apart from , , which in Wu are nasals colloquially but fricatives when read.\n\nVelars , , are palatalized to affricates before , (the high-front vowels ) apart from Min and Yue, where they remain stops before all vowels; , also palatalize, but remain fricatives. For instance in Mandarin, they are \"g, k, h\" before non-palatalizing vowels and \"j, q, x\" before palatalizing vowels, whereas in Cantonese they remain \"g, k, h\" everywhere. (Compare the alternate spellings of \"Beijing\" and \"Peking\".) The alveolar sibilants , , , , (Mandarin \"z, c, s\") are also generally palatalized before , (to Mandarin \"j, q, x\"), collapsing with the palatalized velars , , , , in dialects which have lost the \"round-sharp\" distinction so important to Peking opera.\n\nThe palatal stops , , remain stops only in Min among the Chinese lects (though also in Japanese and Vietnamese loan words); elsewhere they are conflated with the affricates. The palatal and retroflex sibilants are generally conflated; in Yue and Min, as well as in much of Wu and Mandarin, they are further conflated with the alveolar sibilants. This contrast remains in Beijing, where 'three' is distinct from 'mountain'; both are in Sichuanese and Taiwanese Mandarin.\n\nThere are numerous more sporadic correlations. For instance, the alveolar affricates , , become stops in Taishan Yue, whereas the alveolar stops are debuccalized to , as in \"Hoisaan\" for Cantonese \"Toisaan\" (Taishan). In Yüchi, Yunnan, it is the velars , , which are debuccalized, to . In the Min dialects, , become or . In Xi'an Mandarin, the fricatives , , , are rounded to before rounded vowels, as in 'water' (Beijing \"shuǐ\" ).\n\nThe categories of the Late Middle Chinese rime tables are reduced to the four medials of modern Chinese, plus an intermediate type :\n\n⟨i⟩ and ⟨iu⟩ are omitted after labiodental initials.\n\nThe medial is used for syllables which have a palatalizing medial in Mandarin, but no medial in Yue. That is, in Mandarin should be read as , with the same effect on consonants as has, whereas in Cantonese it is silent. In Shanghainese both situations occur: is equivalent to in reading pronunciations, as or , but is not found in colloquial speech.\n\nIn Cantonese, medial can be ignored after sibilants, as palatalization has been lost in these series. That is, \"siao, shao\" are read the same.\n\nChao uses the following rimes. They do not always correspond to the Middle Chinese rimes.\n\nRimes consist of a nucleus (the main vowel) and optionally a coda. They need to be considered as a unit because of a strong historical interaction between vowel and coda in Chinese dialects. The following combinations occur (note that the vowel is treated as medial plus nucleus ):\n\nThe most salient dialectal difference in rimes is perhaps the lack of the obstruent codas , , in most dialects of Mandarin and independently in the Wencheng dialect of Oujiang, though this has traditionally been seen as a loss of \"tone\" (see below). In Wu, Min (generally), New Xiang (Hunanese), Jin, and in the Lower Yangtze and Minjiang dialects of Mandarin, these codas conflate to glottal stop . In others, such as Gan, they are reduced to , while Yue dialects, Hakka, and Old Xiang maintain the original system.\n\nNasal codas are also reduced in many dialects. Mandarin and Wu do not distinguish between and , with them being reduced to or nasal vowels, or in some cases dropped altogether. In Shanghainese many instances of have conflated as well, or been dropped, but a phonemic distinction is maintained.\n\nIn Mandarin, an additional coda is found, \"-er\" , from GC .\n\nIn Cantonese, the simple vowels \"i u iu o a e\" are , apart from and after velars, which open to diphthongs, as in \"ci\" and \"ciu\" . Diphthongs may vary markedly depending on initial and medial, as in \"cau\" , \"ceau\" , \"ciau\" , though both \"ceu ~ cieu\" are , following the general pattern of before a coda (cf. \"cen\" vs \"can\" ). Cantonese does not have medials, apart from \"gw, kw\", though sometimes it is the nuclear vowel which drops: \"giung\" , \"xiong\" , but \"giuan\" .\n\nThe following combinations of orthographic medials and rimes occur, taking \"-iu\" to be medial \"i\" + rime \"u\" :\nDouble cells show discrepancies between analysis and orthography. For instance, Chao analyzes \"ieng, iueng\" as part of the \"aeng\" series rather than the \"eng\" series, and \"ien\" as part of the \"an\" series. Though not apparent from the chart, \"eng-ing-ueng-iuing\", \"ung-ong-iung-iong\", and \"en-in-un-iun\" are similar series. The discrepancies are due to an effort to keep frequent syllables short: \"en-in-un-iun\" rather than \"*en-ien-uen-iuen\", for example; as well as a reflection of some of the more widespread phonological changes in the rimes.\n\nThe Classical correspondences, with many archaic distinctions lost, are as follows:\n\nThese all occur in the velar-initial series, but not all in the others.\n\nIn Cantonese, after coronal stops and sibilants, rounded finals such as \"-on\" and \"-uan\" produce front rounded vowels, as in \"don\" , and after velars, \"iung\" and \"iong\" lose their . \nMin dialects are similar, but in certain tones and become diphthongs rather that their usual . For example, in Fuzhou, even-tone 星 \"sieng\" is but going-tone 性 \"sieq\" is .\n\nIn Yunnan Mandarin, is pronounced as , so that the name of the province, \"yunnom\", is rather than as in Beijing.\n\nIn Nanking, metathesizes to after alveolars, as in 天 for Beijing \"tian\" .\n\nThe basic spelling is used for the even 平 tone(s). For the rising 上 tone(s), the nucleus is doubled (with the vowel → , as that is treated as medial + nucleus ), or the coda is changed to a 'lighter' letter. For the going 去 tone(s), the coda is made 'heavier'; if there is no coda, add . For the entering 入 tone(s), a stop coda is used.\n\n'Lighter' means that a vowel coda is made more open ( → , → ); 'heavier' means that a vowel coda is made more close ( → , → ) and a nasal coda (, ) is doubled. The nasal is 'lightened' to (as in many Polynesian languages) and made heavier as (as in the GC initial):\n\nOne consequence of this is that the rimes \"-e\" and \"-ei\" in the even tone conflate to in the rising tone. However, since there are no such syllables which begin with the same consonant and medial, no syllables are actually conflated.\n\nThe difference between \"yin\" and \"yang\" tones is indicated by the voicing of the consonant. A zero consonant is treated as voiceless (it is sometimes reconstructed as a glottal stop), so \"i, iem, uon, iuan\" are \"ping yin\" (Mandarin \"yī, yān, wān, yuān\"), whereas \"yi, yem, won, yuan\" are \"ping yang\" (Mandarin \"yí, yán, wán, yuán\"). In a few cases, the effect that voiced , , , have on tone needs to be negated to achieve a \"ping yin\" tone. This is accomplished by spelling them , , , .\n\nTo mark the toneless Mandarin syllable \"ma\", a centered dot is used: . The dot is omitted for toneless , as tonic \"me, de, te, ne, le\" do not exist.\n\nThe realization of the tones in the various varieties of Chinese is generally predictable; see Four tones for details. In Beijing Mandarin, for example, even tone is split according to voicing, with muddy consonants becoming aspirates: \"ba, pa, ma, bha\" → \"bā, pā, má, pá\" (and \"mha\" → \"mā\"). Going tone is not split, and muddy consonants become tenuis: \"bah, pah, mah, bhah\" → \"bà, pà, mà, bà.\" Rising tone splits, not along voicing, but with muddy-consonant syllables conflating with going tone: \"baa, paa, maa, bhaa\" → \"bǎ, pǎ, mǎ, bà\". That is, \"bhaa\" and \"bhah\" are homonyms in Beijing, as indeed they are in all of Mandarin, in Wu apart from Wenzhounese, in Hakka, and in reading pronunciations of Cantonese. Entering tone is likewise split in Beijing: \"mat, bhat\" → \"mà, bá\".\n\nHowever, the realization of entering tones in Beijing dialect, and thus in Standard Chinese, is not predictable when a syllable has a voiceless initial such as \"bat\" or \"pat\". In such cases even syllables with the same GC spelling may have different tones in Beijing, though they remain homonyms in other Mandarin dialects, such as Xian and Sichuanese. This is due to historical dialect-mixing in the Chinese capital that resulted in unavoidably idiosyncratic correspondences.\n\nIn Yue, there is a straightforward split according to consonant voicing, with a postvocalic in Yale romanization for the latter. Muddy onsets become aspirates in even and rising tones, but tenuis in going and entering tones: \"ba, pa, ma, bha\" → \"bā, pā, māh, pāh\"; \"baa, paa, maa, bhaa\" → \"bá, pá, máh, páh\"; \"bah, pah, mah, bhah\" → \"ba, pa, mah, bah\"; \"bat, pat, mat, bhat\" → \"baat, paat, maht, baht\". In addition, there is a split in entering tone according to vowel length, with Cantonese mid-entering tone for short vowels like \"bāt, pāt\". In reading pronunciations, however, rising tone syllables with muddy onsets are treated as going tone: \"bhaa\" → \"bah\" rather than → \"páh\". There is also an unpredictable split in the even \"ping yin\" tone which indicates diminutives or a change in part of speech, but this is not written in all Cantonese romanizations (it is written in Yale, but not in Jyutping).\n\nChao provided this poem as an example. The character text is no different in GC and standard Chinese, apart from 裏 \"lǐ\", which in any case has now been substituted with Chao's choice of 里 on the Mainland. Note that simplified characters like this would affect all of Chao's proposal, so that 對 below would become 对, etc. The only other difference is 他 \"tā\" for 'her', which may differ from contemporary written Chinese 她, but which follows Classical usage. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "48422186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48422186", "title": "Guane Municipal Museum", "text": "Guane Municipal Museum\n\nGuane Municipal Museum is a museum located in Isabel Rubio street in Guane, Cuba. It was established as a museum on 14 December 1979.\n\nIt holds sections on history, archeology, numismatics, weaponry and ethnology.\n\n"}
{"id": "27240024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27240024", "title": "Gudea cylinders", "text": "Gudea cylinders\n\nThe Gudea cylinders are a pair of terracotta cylinders dating to circa 2125 BC, on which is written in cuneiform a Sumerian myth called the Building of Ningursu's temple. The cylinders were made by Gudea, the ruler of Lagash, and were found in 1877 during excavations at Telloh (ancient Girsu), Iraq and are now displayed in the Louvre in Paris, France. They are the largest cuneiform cylinders yet discovered and contain the longest known text written in the Sumerian language.\n\nThe cylinders were found in a drain by Ernest de Sarzec under the Eninnu temple complex at Telloh, the ancient ruins of the Sumerian \"holy city\" of Girsu, during the first season of excavations in 1877. They were found next to a building known as the Agaren, where a brick pillar \"(pictured)\" was found containing an inscription describing its construction by Gudea within Eninnu during the Second Dynasty of Lagash. The Agaren was described on the pillar as a place of judgement, or mercy seat, and it is thought that the cylinders were either kept there or elsewhere in the Eninnu. They are thought to have fallen into the drain during the destruction of Girsu generations later. In 1878 the cylinders were shipped to Paris, France where they remain on display today at the Louvre, Department of Near East antiquities, Richelieu, ground floor, room 2, accession numbers MNB 1511 and MNB 1512.\n\nThe two cylinders were labelled A and B, with A being 61 cm high with a diameter of 32 cm and B being 56 cm with a diameter of 33 cm. The cylinders were hollow with perforations in the centre for mounting. These were originally found with clay plugs filling the holes, and the cylinders themselves filled with an unknown type of plaster. The clay shells of the cylinders are approximately 2.5 to 3 cm thick. Both cylinders were cracked and in need of restoration and the Louvre still holds 12 cylinder fragments, some of which can be used to restore a section of cylinder B. Cylinder A contains thirty columns and cylinder B twenty four. These columns are divided into between sixteen and thirty-five cases per column containing between one and six lines per case. The cuneiform was meant to be read with the cylinders in a horizontal position and is a typical form used between the Akkadian Empire and the Ur III dynasty, typical of inscriptions dating to the 2nd Dynasty of Lagash. Script differences in the shapes of certain signs indicate that the cylinders were written by different scribes.\n\nDetailed reproductions of the cylinders were made by de Sarzac in his excavation reports which are still used in modern times. The first translation and transliteration was published by Francois Threau-Dangin in 1905. Another edition with a notable concordance was published by Ira Maurice Price in 1927. Further translations were made by M. Lambert and R. Tournay in 1948, Adam Falkenstein in 1953, Giorgio Castellino in 1977, Thorkild Jacobsen in 1987, and Dietz Otto Edzard in 1997. The latest translation by the Electronic Text Corpus of Sumerian Literature (ETCSL) project was provided by Joachim Krecher with legacy material from Hermann Behrens and Bram Jagersma. Samuel Noah Kramer also published a detailed commentary in 1966 and in 1988. Herbert Sauren proposed that the text of the cylinders comprised a ritual play, enactment or pageant that was performed during yearly temple dedication festivities and that certain sections of both cylinders narrate the script and give the ritual order of events of a seven-day festival. This proposition was met with limited acceptance.\n\nInterpretation of the text faces substantial limitations for modern scholars, who are not the intended recipients of the information and do not share a common knowledge of the ancient world and the background behind the literature. Irene Winter points out that understanding the story demands \"the viewer's prior knowledge and correct identification of the scene – a process of 'matching' rather than 'reading' of imagery itself qua narrative.\" The hero of the story is Gudea \"(statue pictured)\", king of the city-state of Lagash at the end of the third millennium BC. A large quantity of sculpted and inscribed artifacts have survived pertaining to his reconstruction and dedication of the Eninnu, the temple of Ningursu, the patron deity of Lagash. These include foundation nails \"(pictured)\", building plans \"(pictured)\" and pictorial accounts sculpted on limestone stelae. The temple, Eninnu was a formidable complex of buildings, likely including the E-pa, Kasurra and sanctuary of Bau among others. There are no substantial architectural remains of Gudea's buildings, so the text is the best record of his achievements.\n\nSome fragments of another Gudea inscription were found that could not be pieced together with the two in the Louvre. This has led some scholars to suggest that there was a missing cylinder preceding the texts recovered. It has been argued that the two cylinders present a balanced and complete literary with a line at the end of Cylinder A having been suggested by Falkenstein to mark the middle of the composition. This colophon has however also been suggested to mark the cylinder itself as the middle one in a group of three. The opening of cylinder A also shows similarities to the openings of other myths with the destinies of heaven and earth being determined. Various conjectures have been made regarding the supposed contents of an initial cylinder. Victor Hurowitz suggested it may have contained an introductory hymn praising Ningirsu and Lagash. Thorkild Jacobsen suggested it may have explained why a relatively recent similar temple built by Ur-baba (or Ur-bau), Gudea's father-in-law \"was deemed insufficient\".\n\nCylinder A opens on a day in the distant past when destinies were determined with Enlil, the highest god in the Sumerian pantheon, in session with the Divine Council and looking with admiration at his son Ningirsu (another name for Ninurta) and his city, Lagash.\n\nNingirsu responds that his governor will build a temple dedicated to great accomplishments. Gudea is then sent a dream where a giant man – with wings, a crown, and two lions – commanded him to build the E-ninnu temple. Two figures then appear: a woman holding a gold stylus, and a hero holding a lapis lazuli tablet on which he drew the plan of a house. The hero placed bricks in a brick mold and carrying basket, in front of Gudea – while a donkey gestured impatiently with its hoof. After waking, Gudea could not understand the dream so traveled to visit the goddess Nanse by canal for interpretation of the oracle. Gudea stops at several shrines on the route to make offerings to various other deities. Nanse explains that the giant man is her brother Ningirsu, and the woman with the golden stylus is Nisaba goddess of writing, directing him to lay out the temple astronomically aligned with the \"holy stars\". The hero is Nindub an architect-god surveying the plan of the temple. The donkey was supposed to represent Gudea himself, eager to get on with the building work.\nNanse instructs Gudea to build Ningirsu – a decorated chariot with emblem, weapons, and drums, which he does and takes into the temple with \"Ushumgalkalama\", his minstrel or harp \"(bull-shaped harp sound-box pictured)\". He is rewarded with Ningirsu's blessing and a second dream where he is given more detailed instructions of the structure. Gudea then instructs the people of Lagash and gives judgement on the city with a 'code of ethics and morals'. Gudea takes to the work zealously and measures the building site, then lays the first brick in a festive ritual. Materials for the construction are brought from over a wide area including Susa, Elam, Magan Meluhha and Lebanon. Cedars of Lebanon are apparently floated down from Lebanon on the Euphrates and the \"Iturungal\" canal to Girsu.\n\nHe is then sent a third dream revealing the different form and character of the temples. The construction of the structure is then detailed with the laying of the foundations, involving participation from the Annanuki including Enki, Nanse, and Bau. Different parts of the temple are described along with its furnishings and the cylinder concludes with a hymn of praise to it.\n\nLines 738 to 758 describe the house being finished with \"kohl\" and a type of plaster from the \"edin\" canal:\n\nThorkild Jacobsen considered this \"\"Idedin\" canal\" referred to an unidentified \"Desert Canal\", which he considered \"probably refers to an abandoned canal bed that had filled with the characteristic purplish dune sand still seen in southern Iraq.\"\n\nThe second cylinder begins with a narrative hymn starting with a prayer to the Annanuki. Gudea then announces the house ready for the accommodation of Ningirsu and his wife Bau. Food and drink are prepared, incense is lit and a ceremony is organized to welcome the gods into their home. The city is then judged again and a number of deities are appointed by Enki to fill various positions within the structure. These include a gatekeeper, bailiff, butler, chamberlain, coachman, goatherd, gamekeeper, grain and fisheries inspectors, musicians, armourers and a messenger. After a scene of sacred marriage between Ningirsu and Bau, a seven-day celebration is given by Gudea for Ningirsu with a banquet dedicated to Anu, Enlil and Ninmah (Ninhursag), the major gods of Sumer, who are all in attendance. The text closes with lines of praise for Ningirsu and the Eninnu temple.\n\nThe modern name for the myth contained on both cylinders is \"The building of Ningirsu's temple\". Ningirsu was associated with the yearly spring rains, a force essential to early irrigation agriculture. Thorkild Jacobsen describes the temple as an intensely sacred place and a visual assurance of the presence of the god in the community, suggesting the structure was \"in a mystical sense, one with him.\" The element \"Ninnu\" in the name of the temple \"E-Ninnu\" is a name of Ningirsu with the full form of its name, \"E-Ninnu-Imdugud-babbara\" meaning \"house Ninnu, the flashing thunderbird\". It is directly referred to as thunderbird in Gudea's second dream and in his blessing of it.\n\nPreceded by the Kesh temple hymn, the Gudea cylinders are one of the first ritual temple building stories ever recorded. The style, traditions and format of the account has notable similarities to those in the Bible such as the building of the tabernacle of Moses in and . Victor Hurowitz has also noted similarities to the later account of the construction of Solomon's temple in 1 Kings 6:1–38, 1 Kings Chapter 7, and Chapter 8 and in the Book of Chronicles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38438178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38438178", "title": "IslamQA", "text": "IslamQA\n\nIslamQA is a website providing information regarding Islam in accordance with the Salafi school of thought. It was founded by Muhammad Al-Munajjid and is the most popular Salafi website in the Arab-speaking world.\n\nThe service was one of the first online \"fatwa\" services, if not the first. The launching of IslamQA.info in 1997 by Muhammad Al-Munajjid marked the beginning of an attempt to answer questions by making Salafi school interpretation of the Quran and Hadith. The website states that \"All questions and answers on this site have been prepared, approved, revised, edited, amended or annotated by Shaykh Muhammad Saalih al-Munajjid, the supervisor of this site.\"\n\nIslamQA is available in 12 languages, including English, Arabic, Bangla, Chinese, Russian, French, and Spanish, the website provides fatawa covering basic tenets of faith, etiquette and morals, Islamic history, and Islamic politics.\n\nAccording to Alexa Internet in June 2013, Islamqa.info was ranked #12,038 in the world with a bounce rate of roughly 75% (i.e., 75% of visits consist of only one pageview) and search engines accounting for 35% of visits. In July 2015, Islamqa.info was ranked #6,787 in the world with a bounce rate of roughly 69.9% and search engines accounting for 46.7% of visits. In 2015, Alexa lists the site as the most popular on the topic of Islam.\n\nThe \"fatwas\" on the website have been noted in news sources.\n\nThe fact-checking website Punditfact mentioned Al-Munajjid's justification for why women should not drive, as published on IslamQA.info, when deciding the factual accuracy of the claim that Saudi Arabia was the only Muslim-majority nation that did not allow women to drive.\nThe \"fatwa\" was quoted saying: \"It is well known that (driving) leads to evil consequences which are well known to those who promote it, such as being alone with a non-mahram (marriageable) woman, unveiling, reckless mixing with men, and committing haraam (sinful) actions because of which these things were forbidden.\" The article has been removed from the website. The ban on driving in Saudi Arabia has been lifted.\n\nOne of IslamQA's \"fatwas\" on slavery — specifically of men having sex with female slaves — has been noted in the media as one of many similar \"fatwas\" published by Islamic scholars on the role of women in Islam. The \"fatwa\" was quoted stating that a Muslim wife \"has no right to object to her husband owning female slaves or to his having intercourse with them [...] The scholars are unanimous in this assessment, and no one is permitted to view this act as forbidden, or to forbid it. Whoever does so, is a sinner, and is acting against the consensus of the scholars.\" \n\nAl-Munajjid published a \"fatwa\" on homosexuality, which he called \"one of the greatest crimes, the worst of sins and the most abhorrent of deeds\" See LGBT in Islam.\n\nThe website was banned in Saudi Arabia because it was issuing independent \"fatwas\". In Saudi Arabia, the kingdom's Council of Senior Scholars has sole responsibility for issuing \"fatwas\". The Council was granted this exclusive authority to issue \"fatwas\" by a royal edict issued in August 2010 (while restrictions had been in place since 2005, they were seldom enforced); this move was described by Christopher Boucek as \"the latest example of how the state is working to assert its primacy over the country’s religious establishment.\" As of July 2017, the website has been available in Saudi Arabia.\n"}
{"id": "5174409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5174409", "title": "Kay Noble", "text": "Kay Noble\n\nMary Charlene Noble (October 15, 1940 – April 27, 2006), known from childhood by her nickname Kay Noble, was an American professional wrestler. Her career spanned from the 1950s to the 1980s, during which time she was known for her toughness in the ring. She worked along well-known female professional wrestlers such as Penny Banner, The Fabulous Moolah, and Gladys Gillem. She also wrestled in mixed tag team matches with partners such as her husband Doug Gilbert and Terry Funk. During her almost thirty years wrestling, she held the Texas Women's Championship, Central States Women's Championship, and AWA World Women's Championship. She was also honored by the Cauliflower Alley Club in 2001, before dying of stomach cancer in April 2006.\n\nNoble first wanted to become a professional wrestler at age 15 and wanted promoter Gust Karras to help her break into the business. She, however, did not begin her professional wrestling career until 1957 at the age 18 after being approached by a promoter in her hometown of St. Joseph, Missouri. She was trained by Laura Martinez and Sonny Myers. The following year in October 1958, Noble, along with Lorraine Johnson, Penny Banner, and Laura Martinez were charged with inciting a riot when they began fighting outside of the ring, but they pleaded not guilty in court. The promoters of the event paid the fine.\n\nShe later helped train male professional wrestler Colonel DeBeers. During her career, she held both the Texas Women's Championship and Central States Women's Championship. Throughout her years wrestling, Noble was known for her toughness and strength. She was also a high-flying wrestler.\n\nIn the 1960s, she worked primarily in Minneapolis, Minnesota. During this time, she wrestled a series of mixed tag team matches with her husband Doug Gilbert against Roy Collins and Barbara Baker. She also wrestled a series of matches against and teaming with Betty Niccoli. She also wrestled as the partner of Jack Cain in mixed tag team matches against Jean Antone and Terry Funk. Funk was also her partner on occasion. Her other well-known opponents included Penny Banner, The Fabulous Moolah, and Gladys Gillem. In 1963, she won the vacant AWA World Women's Championship by defeating Kathy Starr in Minnesota, and she held the title for approximately eight years, losing it to Vivian Vachon in November 1971 in Canada.\n\nShe was named WFIA's \"Girl Wrestling of the Year\" in 1971. By the 1980s, Noble only wrestled part-time while raising her children In 2001, the Cauliflower Alley Club, a society of retired professional wrestlers, honored her contributions to women's wrestling.\n\nShe once worked for Bob Geigel as a bartender in Kansas. After retiring from professional wrestling, Noble entered into the pest control and upholstery industries. Noble owned Kay's Upholstery in Amarillo, Texas. She later worked in pediatrics at Baptist St. Anthony's Hospital. In her spare time, she played the piano.\n\nNoble was first married to Doug Gilbert (Doug Lindzy), whom she met in an elevator and married in 1959. The couple had three children: Teresa, Michael, and Steve. At this time they lived in North Branch, Minnesota where the children started school in ISD 138. later they bought a home in South Bend, Indiana, where they also owned horses. Her second marriage to Dean Fortune produced two sons, David and Danny. In November 1985, she married Dick Bell, to whom she was still married at the time of her death.\n\nShe died on April 27, 2006 in Amarillo, Texas due to an inoperable cancer of the stomach, having been diagnosed the previous October. Her funeral was on May 1, 2006. At the time of her death, she also had 20 grandchildren and one great-grandchild.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34853645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34853645", "title": "List of Hunter: The Reckoning books", "text": "List of Hunter: The Reckoning books\n\nA comprehensive list of \"\" books, published by White Wolf, Inc., including production code and ISBN.\n"}
{"id": "42081981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42081981", "title": "List of archives in the Czech Republic", "text": "List of archives in the Czech Republic\n\nThis is list of archives in the Czech Republic.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1616703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1616703", "title": "List of reporting marks: B", "text": "List of reporting marks: B\n\n"}
{"id": "40090286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40090286", "title": "Mall Finance &amp; Investment Co Ltd v Slater", "text": "Mall Finance &amp; Investment Co Ltd v Slater\n\nMall Finance & Investment Co Ltd v Slater [1976] 2 NZLR 685, is a New Zealand case regarding whether a contract entered into to stop a party for filing criminal charge is legally enforceable or not. It is more often cited as Slater v Mall Finance.\n\nGizelle Slater’s de facto husband Gary Nausbaum was a director at Mall Finance. After he misappropriated $11,500 from Mall Finance, Slater entered into an agreement with the company to repay the stolen money, if the company agreed not to report the matter to the police. To secure the agreement, Slater had to give a mortgage over her house at 60 Penrose Street, Lower Hutt.\n\nLater, Slater had a change of heart (and perhaps a change of boyfriend) and applied to the High Court to set aside the mortgage because it was illegal at common law, being it was a contract entered into for the purpose of not to disclose a crime.\n\nThe High Court set aside the mortgage, as section 7(3) of the Illegal Contracts Act prohibits the courts from granting any such relief to Mall Finance. Mall Finance appealed.\n\nThe Court of Appeal reversed the High Court’s ruling, but on the technicality that the High Court should have referred the matter to a full hearing. However the end effect is that any contract obtained to prevent someone not to report a criminal act, will not be legally enforceable.\n"}
{"id": "48729456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48729456", "title": "Manchester Digital Music Archive", "text": "Manchester Digital Music Archive\n\nManchester Digital Music Archive (MDMarchive) is an online community archive founded in 2003 by Matthew Norman, Alison Surtees, Abigail Ward, CP Lee and Dave Rofe. It was created as a way of celebrating and raising awareness of Greater Manchester's musical heritage and protecting collections of material held by individuals and institutions relating to the subject. Towards the end of 2015 it became a registered charity.\n\nThe archive, originally named Manchester District Music Archive, came about in 2003 after Surtees and Norman had the idea of making a documentary about the Greater Manchester music scene, loosely based on CP Lee’s book ‘Shake, Rattle and Rain’. Realising the subject was too vast to be contained within a documentary, Surtees and Norman, alongside Dave Rofe and CP Lee, decided to launch a campaign to create a Greater Manchester music museum. Abigail Ward joined the team shortly afterwards and began to develop an online presence for the project. Lee's book covered the history of Manchester music from 1955 - 1995 and contained an extensive band list at the end of the book, which was used a starting point when populating the band list on the Manchester Digital Music Archive website.\n\nA seminar was held at Urbis in 2004 to officially launch the newly constituted organisation with a panel featuring Jon Savage, CP Lee, Guy Garvey, Mark Radcliffe and Jan Hargreaves. Hundreds attended the event and it was announced that the intention was to set up a museum where people could donate items of music ephemera to the collection. The co-founders then spent a number of years trying to create a physical space for the archive but after years of struggling to find something suitable, a website was set up in 2006, which allowed users to upload images of their own personal artefacts, along with associated memories, relating to Greater Manchester music, musicians, DJs and venues. This online archive was developed by Abigail Ward with web designer Ashley Kennerley (Go Bang! Design).\n\nIn 2007 and 2014, Manchester Digital Music Archive won the Big Chip best not-for-profit project award.\n\nAs of December 2015 the site has in excess of 3000 members who have uploaded material relating to more than 3350 bands, 600 DJs and 1000 venues. Users are encouraged to provide memories and anecdotes along with their artefacts and the only stipulation is that items need to be linked to acts or venues from Greater Manchester. All genres of music are covered and as well as an extensive collection of pop memorabilia, the archive includes material relating to the history of the Royal Northern College of Music and the Halle Orchestra. Users can comment on and discuss items uploaded by others or curate online themed exhibitions using material from the site. The site has a number of these exhibitions on various subjects including Moss Side and Hulme club culture, City Fun fanzine, Manchester's LGBT music and club culture and Royal Northern College of Music students who served in World War I.\n\nIn November 2015, the organisation became a registered charity and in June 2017 changed its name to Manchester Digital Music Archive. The board of trustees are Dave Carter, CP Lee, Cathy Brooks, Aidan O'Rourke and Sarah Feinstein.\n\nThe archive exists online but has held numerous events and exhibitions at venues around Greater Manchester. In 2008 it held an event at Islington Mill which explored the city’s 1980s electro-funk scene, curated by DJ Greg Wilson. The event included music and discussion and also showed the premiere of the Tim Forde documentary 'Birth of The British B-Boy', which tells the story of breakdancing in Manchester.\n\nIn 2013, following investment from Heritage Lottery Fund, MDMarchive held an exhibition, \"Defining Me: Musical Adventures in Manchester\" ,at The Lowry, a 5-month show co-curated by members of MDMarchive's online community. The exhibition attracted a 32,000 visitors. There were a number of spin-off events featuring Greater Manchester music luminaries in conversation, including Barry Adamson, Kevin Cummins and Richard Boon. In 2014 the project ended with a community concert at Band on the Wall featuring British rave pioneer Graham Massey in collaboration with The Prospectors, a collective of disabled musicians from Stockport.\n\nThe archive also has a regular presence in the \"Louder Than Words\" festival - an annual event focused on literature within the music industry. In 2014 MDMarchive hosted a panel discussion which saw Elbow's Guy Garvey, Jaheda Choudhury-Potter of Ajah UK and Everything Everything's Jon Higgs talk about Greater Manchester lyricism in music . The following year it hosted another session, this time focusing on the work of virtual archives and included panellists from MDMarchive as well as writer Anita Sethi and Jez Collins from the Birmingham Music Archive.\n\nIn 2017 Manchester Digital Music Archive won further investment from Heritage Lottery Fund for \"Rebel Music: The Sound of Politics and Protest in Manchester\"\",\" a project exploring the intertwined histories of music and political activism across the ten boroughs of the Greater Manchester. The project will focus in particular on the musical achievements of women and the LGBT+ community.\n\nThroughout the project, MDMarchive will be working with teams of volunteers from the two chosen communities (women and LGBT+ people) to co-produce a programme of events, two physical pop-up exhibitions, a series of digital exhibitions, six short films and three guided heritage walks. The volunteers will also access training on how to preserve and share their own musical heritage.\n\nThe first physical exhibition, \"Queer Noise: The History of LGBT+ Music & Club Culture in Manchester\", will be held at the People’s History Museum from July–September 2017 as part of \"Never Going Underground 2017\", a major exhibition marking 50 years since the partial decriminalisation of homosexuality. The second exhibition, \"Woman: Breaking The Rules\" is slated for February 2018 and will coincide with 100 Years of Women’s Suffrage.\n\n"}
{"id": "20208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20208", "title": "Margaret Murray", "text": "Margaret Murray\n\nMargaret Alice Murray (13 July 1863 – 13 November 1963) was an Anglo-Indian Egyptologist, archaeologist, anthropologist, historian, and folklorist. The first woman to be appointed as a lecturer in archaeology in the United Kingdom, she worked at University College London (UCL) from 1898 to 1935. She served as President of the Folklore Society from 1953 to 1955, and published widely over the course of her career.\n\nBorn to a wealthy middle-class English family in Calcutta, British India, Murray divided her youth between India, Britain, and Germany, training as both a nurse and a social worker. Moving to London, in 1894 she began studying Egyptology at UCL, developing a friendship with department head Flinders Petrie, who encouraged her early academic publications and appointed her Junior Professor in 1898. In 1902–03 she took part in Petrie's excavations at Abydos, Egypt, there discovering the Osireion temple and the following season investigated the Saqqara cemetery, both of which established her reputation in Egyptology. Supplementing her UCL wage by giving public classes and lectures at the British Museum and Manchester Museum, it was at the latter in 1908 that she led the unwrapping of Khnum-nakht, one of the mummies recovered from the Tomb of the Two Brothers – the first time that a woman had publicly unwrapped a mummy. Recognising that British Egyptomania reflected the existence of a widespread public interest in Ancient Egypt, Murray wrote several books on Egyptology targeted at a general audience.\n\nMurray also became closely involved in the first-wave feminist movement, joining the Women's Social and Political Union and devoting much time to improving women's status at UCL. Unable to return to Egypt due to the First World War, she focused her research on the witch-cult hypothesis, the theory that the witch trials of Early Modern Christendom were an attempt to extinguish a surviving pre-Christian, pagan religion devoted to a Horned God. Although later academically discredited, the theory gained widespread attention and proved a significant influence on the emerging new religious movement of Wicca. From 1921 to 1931 Murray undertook excavations of prehistoric sites on Malta and Menorca and developed her interest in folkloristics. Awarded an honorary doctorate in 1927, she was appointed Assistant Professor in 1928 and retired from UCL in 1935. That year she visited Palestine to aid Petrie's excavation of Tall al-Ajjul and in 1937 she led a small excavation at Petra in Jordan. Taking on the presidency of the Folklore Society in later life, she lectured at such institutions as the University of Cambridge and City Literary Institute, and continued to publish in an independent capacity until her death.\n\nMurray's work in Egyptology and archaeology was widely acclaimed and earned her the moniker of \"The Grand Old Woman of Egyptology\", although after her death many of her contributions to the field were overshadowed by those of Petrie. Conversely, Murray's work in folkloristics and the history of witchcraft has been academically discredited and her methods in these areas heavily criticised. The influence of her witch-cult theory in both religion and literature has been examined by various scholars, and she herself has been dubbed the \"Grandmother of Wicca\".\n\nMargaret Murray was born on 13 July 1863 in Calcutta, Bengal Presidency, then a major military city in British India. A member of the wealthy British imperial elite, she lived in the city with her family: parents James and Margaret Murray, an older sister named Mary, and her paternal grandmother and great-grandmother. James Murray, born in India of English descent, was a businessman and manager of the Serampore paper mills who was thrice elected President of the Calcutta Chamber of Commerce. His wife, Margaret (née Carr), had moved to India from Britain in 1857 to work as a missionary, preaching Christianity and educating Indian women. She continued with this work after marrying James and giving birth to her two daughters.\nAlthough most of their lives were spent in the European area of Calcutta, which was walled off from the indigenous sectors of the city, Murray encountered members of indigenous society through her family's employment of 10 Indian servants and through childhood holidays to Mussoorie. The historian Amara Thornton has suggested that Murray's Indian childhood continued to exert an influence over her throughout her life, expressing the view that Murray could be seen as having a hybrid transnational identity that was both British and Indian. During her childhood, Murray never received a formal education, and in later life expressed pride in the fact that she had never had to sit an exam before entering university.\n\nIn 1870, Margaret and her sister Mary were sent to Britain, there moving in with their uncle John, a vicar, and his wife Harriet at their home in Lambourn, Berkshire. Although John provided them with a strongly Christian education and a belief in the inferiority of women, both of which she would reject, he awakened Murray's interest in archaeology through taking her to see local monuments. In 1873, the girls' mother arrived in Europe and took them with her to Bonn in Germany, where they both became fluent in German. In 1875 they returned to Calcutta, staying there till 1877. They then moved with their parents back to England, where they settled in Sydenham, South London. There, they spent much time visiting The Crystal Palace, while their father worked at his firm's London office. In 1880, they returned to Calcutta, where Margaret remained for the next seven years. She became a nurse at the Calcutta General Hospital, which was run by the Sisters of the Anglican Sisterhood of Clower, and there was involved with the hospital's attempts to deal with a cholera outbreak. In 1887, she returned to England, moving to Rugby, Warwickshire, where her uncle John had moved, now widowed. Here she took up employment as a social worker dealing with local underprivileged people. When her father retired and moved to England, she moved into his house in Bushey Heath, Hertfordshire, living with him until his death in 1891. In 1893 she then travelled to Madras, Tamil Nadu, where her sister had moved to with her new husband.\n\nEncouraged by her mother and sister, Murray decided to enroll at the newly opened department of Egyptology at University College London (UCL) in Bloomsbury, Central London. Having been founded by an endowment from Amelia Blanford Edwards, one of the co-founders of the Egypt Exploration Fund (EEF), the department was run by the pioneering early archaeologist Sir William Flinders Petrie, and based in the Edwards Library of UCL's South Cloisters. Murray began her studies at UCL at age 30 in January 1894, as part of a class composed largely of other women and older men. There, she took courses in the Ancient Egyptian and Coptic languages which were taught by Francis Llewellyn Griffith and Walter Ewing Crum respectively.\n\nMurray soon got to know Petrie, becoming his copyist and illustrator and producing the drawings for the published report on his excavations at Qift, \"Koptos\". In turn, he aided and encouraged her to write her first research paper, \"The Descent of Property in the Early Periods of Egyptian History\", which was published in the \"Proceedings of the Society for Biblical Archaeology\" in 1895. Becoming Petrie's \"de facto\" though unofficial assistant, Murray began to give some of the linguistic lessons in Griffith's absence. In 1898 she was appointed to the position of Junior Lecturer, responsible for teaching the linguistic courses at the Egyptology department; this made her the first female lecturer in archaeology in the United Kingdom. In this capacity, she spent two days a week at UCL, devoting the other days to caring for her ailing mother. As time went on, she came to teach courses on Ancient Egyptian history, religion, and language. Among Murray's students — to whom she referred as \"the Gang\" — were several who went on to produce noted contributions to Egyptology, including Reginald Engelbach, Georgina Aitken, Guy Brunton, and Myrtle Broome. She supplemented her UCL salary by teaching evening classes in Egyptology at the British Museum.\n\nAt this point, Murray had no experience in field archaeology, and so during the 1902–03 field season, she travelled to Egypt to join Petrie's excavations at Abydos. Petrie and his wife, Hilda Petrie, had been excavating at the site since 1899, having taken over the archaeological investigation from French Coptic scholar Émile Amélineau. Murray at first joined as site nurse, but was subsequently taught how to excavate by Petrie and given a senior position. This led to some issues with some of the male excavators, who disliked the idea of taking orders from a woman. This experience, coupled with discussions with other female excavators (some of whom were active in the feminist movement) led Murray to adopt openly feminist viewpoints. While excavating at Abydos, Murray uncovered the Osireion, a temple devoted to the god Osiris which had been constructed by order of Pharaoh Seti I during the period of the New Kingdom. She published her site report as \"The Osireion at Abydos\" in 1904; in the report, she examined the inscriptions that had been discovered at the site to discern the purpose and use of the building.\n\nDuring the 1903–04 field season, Murray returned to Egypt, and at Petrie's instruction began her investigations at the Saqqara cemetery near to Cairo, which dated from the period of the Old Kingdom. Murray did not have legal permission to excavate the site, and instead spent her time transcribing the inscriptions from ten of the tombs that had been excavated during the 1860s by Auguste Mariette. She published her findings in 1905 as \"Saqqara Mastabas I\", although would not publish translations of the inscriptions until 1937 as \"Saqqara Mastabas II\". Both \"The Osireion at Abydos\" and \"Saqqara Mastabas I\" proved to be very influential in the Egyptological community, with Petrie recognising Murray's contribution to his own career.\n\nOn returning to London, Murray took an active role in the feminist movement, volunteering and financially donating to the cause and taking part in feminist demonstrations, protests, and marches. Joining the Women's Social and Political Union, she was present at large marches like the Mud March of 1907 and the Women's Coronation Procession of June 1911. She concealed the militancy of her actions in order to retain the image of respectability within academia. Murray also pushed the professional boundaries for women throughout her own career, and mentored other women in archaeology and throughout academia. As women could not use the men's common room, she successfully campaigned for UCL to open a common room for women, and later ensured that a larger, better-equipped room was converted for the purpose; it was later renamed the Margaret Murray Room. At UCL, she became a friend of fellow female lecturer Winifred Smith, and together they campaigned to improve the status and recognition of women in the university, with Murray becoming particularly annoyed at female staff who were afraid of upsetting or offending the male university establishment with their demands. Feeling that students should get nutritious yet affordable lunches, for many years she sat on the UCL Refectory Committee.\n\nVarious museums around the United Kingdom invited Murray to advise them on their Egyptological collections, resulting in her cataloguing the Egyptian artefacts owned by the Dublin National Museum, the National Museum of Antiquities in Edinburgh, and the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, being elected a Fellow of the latter in thanks.\nPetrie had established connections with the Egyptological wing of Manchester Museum in Manchester, and it was there that many of his finds had been housed. Murray thus often travelled to the museum to catalogue these artefacts, and during the 1906–07 school year regularly lectured there. In 1907, Petrie excavated the Tomb of the Two Brothers, a Middle Kingdom burial of two Egyptian priests, Nakht-ankh and Khnum-nakht, and it was decided that Murray would carry out the public unwrapping of the latter's mummified body. Taking place at the museum in May 1908, it represented the first time that a woman had led a public mummy unwrapping and was attended by over 500 onlookers, attracting press attention. Murray was particularly keen to emphasise the importance that the unwrapping would have for the scholarly understanding of the Middle Kingdom and its burial practices, and lashed out against members of the public who saw it as immoral; she declared that \"every vestige of ancient remains must be carefully studied and recorded without sentimentality and without fear of the outcry of the ignorant\". She subsequently published a book about her analysis of the two bodies, \"The Tomb of the Two Brothers\", which remained a key publication on Middle Kingdom mummification practices into the 21st century.\nMurray was dedicated to public education, hoping to infuse Egyptomania with solid scholarship about Ancient Egypt, and to this end authored a series of books aimed at a general audience. In 1905 she published \"Elementary Egyptian Grammar\" which was followed in 1911 by \"Elementary Coptic (Sahidic) Grammar\". In 1913, she published \"Ancient Egyptian Legends\" for John Murray's \"The Wisdom of the East\" series. She was particularly pleased with the increased public interest in Egyptology that followed Howard Carter's discovery of the tomb of Pharaoh Tutankhamun in 1922. From at least 1911 until his death in 1940, Murray was a close friend of the anthropologist Charles Gabriel Seligman of the London School of Economics, and together they co-authored a variety of papers on Egyptology that were aimed at an anthropological audience. Many of these dealt with subjects that Egyptological journals would not publish, such as the \"Sa\" sign for the uterus, and thus were published in \"Man\", the journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute. It was at Seligman's recommendation that she was invited to become a member of the Institute in 1916.\n\nIn 1914, Petrie launched the academic journal \"Ancient Egypt\", published through his own British School of Archaeology in Egypt (BSAE), which was based at UCL. Given that he was often away from London excavating in Egypt, Murray was left to operate as \"de facto\" editor much of the time. She also published many research articles in the journal and authored many of its book reviews, particularly of the German-language publications which Petrie could not read.\n\nThe outbreak of the First World War in 1914, in which the United Kingdom went to war against Germany and the Ottoman Empire, meant that Petrie and other staff members were unable to return to Egypt for excavation. Instead, Petrie and Murray spent much of the time reorganising the artefact collections that they had attained over the past decades. To aid Britain's war effort, Murray enrolled as a volunteer nurse in the Volunteer Air Detachment of the College Women's Union Society, and for several weeks was posted to Saint-Malo in France. After being taken ill herself, she was sent to recuperate in Glastonbury, Somerset, where she became interested in Glastonbury Abbey and the folklore surrounding it which connected it to the legendary figure of King Arthur and to the idea that the Holy Grail had been brought there by Joseph of Aramathea. Pursuing this interest, she published the paper \"Egyptian Elements in the Grail Romance\" in the journal \"Ancient Egypt\", although few agreed with her conclusions and it was criticised for making unsubstantiated leaps with the evidence by the likes of Jessie Weston.\n\nMurray's interest in folklore led her to develop an interest in the witch trials of Early Modern Europe. In 1917, she published a paper in \"Folklore\", the journal of the Folklore Society, in which she first articulated her version of the witch-cult theory, arguing that the witches persecuted in European history were actually followers of \"a definite religion with beliefs, ritual, and organization as highly developed as that of any cult in the end\". She followed this up with papers on the subject in the journals \"Man\" and the \"Scottish Historical Review\". She articulated these views more fully in her 1921 book \"The Witch-Cult in Western Europe\", published by Oxford University Press after receiving a positive peer review by Henry Balfour, and which received both criticism and support on publication. Many reviews in academic journals were critical, with historians claiming that she had distorted and misinterpreted the contemporary records that she was using, but the book was nevertheless influential.\nAs a result of her work in this area, she was invited to provide the entry on \"witchcraft\" for the fourteenth edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" in 1929. She used the opportunity to propagate her own witch-cult theory, failing to mention the alternate theories proposed by other academics. Her entry would be included in the encyclopedia until 1969, becoming readily accessible to the public, and it was for this reason that her ideas on the subject had such a significant impact. It received a particularly enthusiastic reception by occultists such as Dion Fortune, Lewis Spence, Ralph Shirley, and J. W. Brodie Innes, perhaps because its claims regarding an ancient secret society chimed with similar claims common among various occult groups. Murray joined the Folklore Society in February 1927, and was elected to the society's council a month later, although she stood down in 1929. Murray reiterated her witch-cult theory in her 1933 book, \"The God of the Witches\", which was aimed at a wider, non-academic audience. In this book, she cut out or toned down what she saw as the more unpleasant aspects of the witch-cult, such as animal and child sacrifice, and began describing the religion in more positive terms as \"the Old Religion\".\n\nFrom 1921 to 1927, Murray led archaeological excavations on Malta, assisted by Edith Guest and Gertrude Caton Thompson. She excavated the Bronze Age megalithic monuments of Santa Sofia, Santa Maria tal-Bakkari, Għar Dalam, and Borġ in-Nadur, all of which were threatened by the construction of a new aerodrome. In this she was funded by the Percy Sladen Memorial Fund. Her resulting three-volume excavation report came to be seen as an important publication within the field of Maltese archaeology. During the excavations, she had taken an interest in the island's folklore, resulting in the 1932 publication of her book \"Maltese Folktales\", much of which was a translation of earlier stories collected by Father Magri and her friend Liza Galea. In 1932 Murray returned to Malta to aid in the cataloguing of the Bronze Age pottery collection held in Malta Museum, resulting in another publication, \"Corpus of the Bronze Age Pottery of Malta\".\n\nOn the basis of her work in Malta, Louis C. G. Clarke, the curator of the Cambridge Museum of Ethnology and Anthropology, invited her to lead excavations on the island of Menorca from 1930 to 1931. With the aid of Guest, she excavated the talaiotic sites of Trepucó and Sa Torreta de Tramuntana, resulting in the publication of \"Cambridge Excavations in Minorca\". Murray also continued to publish works on Egyptology for a general audience, such as \"Egyptian Sculpture\" (1930) and \"Egyptian Temples\" (1931), which received largely positive reviews. In the summer of 1925 she led a team of volunteers to excavate Homestead Moat in Whomerle Wood near to Stevenage, Hertfordshire; she did not publish an excavation report and did not mention the event in her autobiography, with her motives for carrying out the excavation remaining unclear.\n\nIn 1924, UCL promoted Murray to the position of assistant professor, and in 1927 she was awarded an honorary doctorate for her career in Egyptology. That year, Murray was tasked with guiding Mary of Teck, the Queen consort, around the Egyptology department during the latter's visit to UCL. The pressures of teaching had eased by this point, allowing Murray to spend more time travelling internationally; in 1920 she returned to Egypt and in 1929 visited South Africa, where she attended the meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science, whose theme was the prehistory of southern Africa. In the early 1930s she travelled to the Soviet Union, where she visited museums in Leningrad, Moscow, Kharkov, and Kiev, and then in late 1935 she undertook a lecture tour of Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Estonia.\nAlthough having reached legal retirement age in 1927, and thus unable to be offered another five-year contract, Murray was reappointed on an annual basis each year until 1935. At this point, she retired, expressing the opinion that she was glad to leave UCL, for reasons that she did not make clear. In 1933, Petrie had retired from UCL and moved to Jerusalem in Mandatory Palestine with his wife; Murray therefore took over as editor of the \"Ancient Egypt\" journal, renaming it \"Ancient Egypt and the East\" to reflect its increasing research interest in the ancient societies that surrounded and interacted with Egypt. The journal folded in 1935, perhaps due to Murray's retirement. Murray then spent some time in Jerusalem, where she aided the Petries in their excavation at Tall al-Ajjul, a Bronze Age mound south of Gaza.\n\nDuring Murray's 1935 trip to Palestine, she had taken the opportunity to visit Petra in neighbouring Jordan. Intrigued by the site, in March and April 1937 she returned in order to carry out a small excavation in several cave dwellings at the site, subsequently writing both an excavation report and a guidebook on Petra. Back in England, from 1934 to 1940, Murray aided the cataloguing of Egyptian antiquities at Girton College, Cambridge, and also gave lectures in Egyptology at the university until 1942.\nDuring the Second World War, Murray evaded the Blitz of London by moving to Cambridge, where she volunteered for a group (probably the Army Bureau of Current Affairs or The British Way and Purpose) who educated military personnel to prepare them for post-war life. Based in the city, she embarked on research into the town's Early Modern history, examining documents stored in local parish churches, Downing College, and Ely Cathedral; she never published her findings. In 1945, she briefly became involved in the \"Who put Bella in the Wych Elm?\" murder case.\n\nAfter the war ended she returned to London, settling into a bedsit room in Endsleigh Street, which was close to University College London (UCL) and the Institute of Archaeology (then an independent institution, now part of UCL); she continued her involvement with the former and made use of the latter's library. On most days she visited the British Museum in order to consult their library, and twice a week she taught adult education classes on Ancient Egyptian history and religion at the City Literary Institute; upon her retirement from this position she nominated her former pupil, Veronica Seton-Williams, to replace her.\n\nMurray's interest in popularising Egyptology among the wider public continued; in 1949 she published \"Ancient Egyptian Religious Poetry\", her second work for John Murray's \"The Wisdom of the East\" series. That same year she also published \"The Splendour That Was Egypt\", in which she collated many of her UCL lectures. The book adopted a diffusionist perspective that argued that Egypt influenced Greco-Roman society and thus modern Western society. This was seen as a compromise between Petrie's belief that other societies influenced the emergence of Egyptian civilisation and Grafton Elliot Smith's highly unorthodox and heavily criticised hyperdiffusionist view that Egypt was the source of all global civilisation. The book received a mixed reception from the archaeological community.\n\nIn 1953, Murray was appointed to the presidency of the Folklore Society following the resignation of former president Allan Gomme. The Society had initially approached John Mavrogordato for the post, but he had declined, with Murray accepting the nomination several months later. Murray remained President for two terms, until 1955. In her 1954 presidential address, \"England as a Field for Folklore Research\", she lamented what she saw as the English people's disinterest in their own folklore in favour of that from other nations. For the autumn 1961 issue of \"Folklore\", the society published a \"festschrift\" to Murray to commemorate her 98th birthday. The issue contained contributions from various scholars paying tribute to her – with papers dealing with archaeology, fairies, Near Eastern religious symbols, Greek folk songs – but notably not about witchcraft, potentially because no other folklorists were willing to defend her witch-cult theory.\n\nIn May 1957, Murray had championed the archaeologist T. C. Lethbridge's controversial claims that he had discovered three pre-Christian chalk hill figures on Wandlebury Hill in the Gog Magog Hills, Cambridgeshire. Privately she expressed concern about the reality of the figures. Lethbridge subsequently authored a book championing her witch-cult theory in which he sought the cult's origins in pre-Christian culture. In 1960, she donated her collection of papers – including correspondences with a wide range of individuals across the country – to the Folklore Society Archive, where it is now known as \"the Murray Collection\".\n\nCrippled with arthritis, Murray had moved into a home in North Finchley, north London, where she was cared for by a retired couple who were trained nurses; from here she occasionally took taxis into central London to visit the UCL library.\nAmid failing health, in 1962 Murray moved into the Queen Victoria Memorial Hospital in Welwyn, Hertfordshire, where she could receive 24-hour care; she lived here for the final 18 months of her life. To mark her hundredth birthday, on 13 July 1963 a group of her friends, former students, and doctors gathered for a party at nearby Ayot St. Lawrence. Two days later, her doctor drove her to UCL for a second birthday party, again attended by many of her friends, colleagues, and former students; it was the last time that she visited the university. In \"Man\", the journal of the Royal Anthropological Institute, it was noted that Murray was \"the only Fellow of the Institute to [reach their centenary] within living memory, if not in its whole history\". That year she published two books; one was \"The Genesis of Religion\", in which she argued that humanity's first deities had been goddesses rather than male gods. The second was her autobiography, \"My First Hundred Years\", which received predominantly positive reviews. She died on 13 November 1963, and her body was cremated.\n\nThe later folklorists Caroline Oates and Juliette Wood have suggested that Murray was best known for her witch-cult theory, with biographer Margaret S. Drower expressing the view that it was her work on this subject which \"perhaps more than any other, made her known to the general public\". It has been claimed that Murray's was the \"first feminist study of the witch trials\", as well as being the first to have actually \"empowered the witches\" by giving the (largely female) accused both free will and a voice distinct from that of their interrogators. The theory was faulty, in part because all of her academic training was in Egyptology, with no background knowledge in European history, but also because she exhibited a \"tendency to generalize wildly on the basis of very slender evidence\". Oates and Wood, however, noted that Murray's interpretations of the evidence fitted within wider perspectives on the past that existed at the time, stating that \"Murray was far from isolated in her method of reading ancient ritual origins into later myths\". In particular, her approach was influenced by the work of the anthropologist James Frazer, who had argued for the existence of a pervasive dying-and-resurrecting god myth, and she was also influenced by the interpretative approaches of E. O. James, Karl Pearson, Herbert Fleure, and Harold Peake.\n\nIn \"The Witch-Cult in Western Europe\", Murray stated that she had restricted her research to Great Britain, although made some recourse to sources from France, Flanders, and New England. She drew a division between what she termed \"Operative Witchcraft\", which referred to the performance of charms and spells with any purpose, and \"Ritual Witchcraft\", by which she meant \"the ancient religion of Western Europe\", a fertility-based faith that she also termed \"the Dianic cult\". She claimed that the cult had \"very probably\" once been devoted to the worship of both a male deity and a \"Mother Goddess\" but that \"at the time when the cult is recorded the worship of the male deity appears to have superseded that of the female\". In her argument, Murray claimed that the figure referred to as the Devil in the trial accounts was the witches' god, \"manifest and incarnate\", to whom the witches offered their prayers. She claimed that at the witches' meetings, the god would be personified, usually by a man or at times by a woman or an animal; when a human personified this entity, Murray claimed that they were usually dressed plainly, though they appeared in full costume for the witches' Sabbaths.\n\nMembers joined the cult either as children or adults through what Murray called \"admission ceremonies\"; Murray asserted that applicants had to agree to join of their own free will, and agree to devote themselves to the service of their deity. She also claimed that in some cases, these individuals had to sign a covenant or were baptised into the faith. At the same time, she claimed that the religion was largely passed down hereditary lines. Murray described the religion as being divided into covens containing thirteen members, led by a coven officer who was often termed the \"Devil\" in the trial accounts, but who was accountable to a \"Grand Master\". According to Murray, the records of the coven were kept in a secret book, with the coven also disciplining its members, to the extent of executing those deemed traitors.\n\nDescribing this witch-cult as \"a joyous religion\", she claimed that the two primary festivals that it celebrated were on May Eve and November Eve, although that other dates of religious observation were 1 February and 1 August, the winter and summer solstices, and Easter. She asserted that the \"General Meeting of all members of the religion\" were known as Sabbaths, while the more private ritual meetings were known as Esbats. The Esbats, Murray claimed, were nocturnal rites that began at midnight, and were \"primarily for business, whereas the Sabbath was purely religious\". At the former, magical rites were performed both for malevolent and benevolent ends. She also asserted that the Sabbath ceremonies involved the witches paying homage to the deity, renewing their \"vows of fidelity and obedience\" to him, and providing him with accounts of all the magical actions that they had conducted since the previous Sabbath. Once this business had been concluded, admissions to the cult or marriages were conducted, ceremonies and fertility rites took place, and then the Sabbath ended with feasting and dancing.\nDeeming Ritual Witchcraft to be \"a fertility cult\", she asserted that many of its rites were designed to ensure fertility and rain-making. She claimed that there were four types of sacrifice performed by the witches: blood-sacrifice, in which the neophyte writes their name in blood; the sacrifice of animals; the sacrifice of a non-Christian child to procure magical powers; and the sacrifice of the witches' god by fire to ensure fertility.\nShe interpreted accounts of witches shapeshifting into various animals as being representative of a rite in which the witches dressed as specific animals which they took to be sacred. She asserted that accounts of familiars were based on the witches' use of animals, which she divided into \"divining familiars\" used in divination and \"domestic familiars\" used in other magic rites.\n\nMurray asserted that a pre-Christian fertility-based religion had survived the Christianization process in Britain, although that it came to be \"practised only in certain places and among certain classes of the community\". She believed that folkloric stories of fairies in Britain were based on a surviving race of dwarfs, who continued to live on the island up until the Early Modern period. She asserted that this race followed the same pagan religion as the witches, thus explaining the folkloric connection between the two. In the appendices to the book, she also alleged that Joan of Arc and Gilles de Rais were members of the witch-cult and were executed for it, a claim which has been refuted by historians, especially in the case of Joan of Arc.\n\nThe later historian Ronald Hutton commented that \"The Witch-Cult in Western Europe\" \"rested upon a small amount of archival research, with extensive use of printed trial records in 19th-century editions, plus early modern pamphlets and works of demonology\". He also noted that the book's tone was generally \"dry and clinical, and every assertion was meticulously footnoted to a source, with lavish quotation\". It was not a bestseller; in its first thirty years, only 2,020 copies were sold. However, it led many people to treat Murray as an authority on the subject; in 1929, she was invited to provide the entry on \"Witchcraft\" for the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", and used it to present her interpretation of the subject as if it were universally accepted in scholarship. It remained in the encyclopedia until being replaced in 1969.\n\nMurray followed \"The Witch-Cult in Western Europe\" with \"The God of the Witches\", published by the popular press Sampson Low in 1931; although similar in content, unlike her previous volume it was aimed at a mass market audience. The tone of the book also differed strongly from its predecessor, containing \"emotionally inflated [language] and coloured with religious phraseology\" and repeatedly referring to the witch-cult as \"the Old Religion\". In this book she also \"cut out or toned down\" many of the claims made in her previous volume which would have painted the cult in a bad light, such as those which discussed sex and the sacrifice of animals and children.\n\nIn this book she began to refer to the witches' deity as the Horned God, and asserted that it was an entity who had been worshipped in Europe since the Palaeolithic.\nShe further asserted that in the Bronze Age, the worship of the deity could be found throughout Europe, Asia, and parts of Africa, claiming that the depiction of various horned figures from these societies proved that. Among the evidence cited were the horned figures found at Mohenjo-Daro, which are often interpreted as depictions of Pashupati, as well as the deities Osiris and Amon in Egypt and the Minotaur of Minoan Crete. Within continental Europe, she claimed that the Horned God was represented by Pan in Greece, Cernunnos in Gaul, and in various Scandinavian rock carvings. Claiming that this divinity had been declared the Devil by the Christian authorities, she nevertheless asserted that his worship was testified in officially Christian societies right through to the Modern period, citing folkloric practices such as the Dorset Ooser and the Puck Fair as evidence of his veneration.\n\nIn 1954, she published \"The Divine King in England\", in which she greatly extended on the theory, taking influence from Frazer's \"The Golden Bough\", an anthropological book that made the claim that societies all over the world sacrificed their kings to the deities of nature. In her book, she claimed that this practice had continued into medieval England, and that, for instance, the death of William II was really a ritual sacrifice.\nNo academic took the book seriously, and it was ignored by many of her supporters.\n\nUpon initial publication, Murray's thesis gained a favourable reception from many readers, including some significant scholars, albeit none who were experts in the witch trials. Historians of Early Modern Britain like George Norman Clark and Christopher Hill incorporated her theories into their work, although the latter subsequently distanced himself from the theory. For the 1961 reprint of \"The Witch-Cult in Western Europe\", the Medieval historian Steven Runciman provided a foreword in which he accepted that some of Murray's \"minor details may be open to criticism\", but in which he was otherwise supportive of her thesis. Her theories were recapitulated by Arno Runeberg in his 1947 book \"Witches, Demons and Fertility Magic\" as well as Pennethorne Hughes in his 1952 book \"Witches\". As a result, the Canadian historian Elliot Rose, writing in 1962, claimed that the Murrayite interpretations of the witch trials \"seem to hold, at the time of writing, an almost undisputed sway at the higher intellectual levels\", being widely accepted among \"educated people\".\n\nRose suggested that the reason that Murray's theory gained such support was partly because of her \"imposing credentials\" as a member of staff at UCL, a position that lent her theory greater legitimacy in the eyes of many readers. He further suggested that the Murrayite view was attractive to many as it confirmed \"the general picture of pre-Christian Europe a reader of Frazer or [Robert] Graves would be familiar with\". Similarly, Hutton suggested that the cause of the Murrayite theory's popularity was because it \"appealed to so many of the emotional impulses of the age\", including \"the notion of the English countryside as a timeless place full of ancient secrets\", the literary popularity of Pan, the widespread belief that the majority of British had remained pagan long after the process of Christianisation, and the idea that folk customs represented pagan survivals. At the same time, Hutton suggested, it seemed more plausible to many than the previously dominant rationalist idea that the witch trials were the result of mass delusion. Related to this, the folklorist Jacqueline Simpson suggested that part of the Murrayite theory's appeal was that it appeared to give a \"sensible, demystifying, liberating approach to a longstanding but sterile argument\" between the rationalists who denied that there had been any witches and those, like Montague Summers, who insisted that there had been a real Satanic conspiracy against Christendom in the Early Modern period replete with witches with supernatural powers. \"How refreshing\", noted the historian Hilda Ellis Davidson, \"and exciting her first book was \"at that period\". A new approach, and such a surprising one.\"\n\nMurray's theories never received support from experts in the Early Modern witch trials, and from her early publications onward many of her ideas were challenged by those who highlighted her \"factual errors and methodological failings\". Indeed, the majority of scholarly reviews of her work produced during the 1920s and 1930s were largely critical. George L. Burr reviewed both of her initial books on the witch-cult for the \"American Historical Review\". He stated that she was not acquainted with the \"careful general histories by modern scholars\" and criticised her for assuming that the trial accounts accurately reflected the accused witches' genuine experiences of witchcraft, regardless of whether those confessions had been obtained through torture and coercion. He also charged her with selectively using the evidence to serve her interpretation, for instance by omitting any supernatural or miraculous events that appear in the trial accounts. W. R. Halliday was highly critical in his review for \"Folklore\", as was E. M. Loeb in his review for \"American Anthropologist\".\n\nSoon after, one of the foremost specialists of the trial records, L'Estrange Ewen, brought out a series of books which rejected Murray's interpretation.\nRose suggested that Murray's books on the witch-cult \"contain an incredible number of minor errors of fact or of calculation and several inconsistencies of reasoning\". He accepted that her case \"could, perhaps, still be proved by somebody else, though I very much doubt it\". Highlighting that there is a gap of about a thousand years between the Christianisation of Britain and the start of the witch trials there, he argues that there is no evidence for the existence of the witch-cult anywhere in the intervening period. He further criticises Murray for treating pre-Christian Britain as a socially and culturally monolithic entity, whereas in reality, it contained a diverse array of societies and religious beliefs. He also challenges Murray's claim that the majority of Britons in the Middle Ages remained pagan as \"a view grounded on ignorance alone\".\n\nMurray did not respond directly to the criticisms of her work, but reacted to her critics in a hostile manner; in later life she asserted that she eventually ceased reading reviews of her work, and believed that her critics were simply acting out of their own Christian prejudices to non-Christian religion.\nSimpson noted that despite these critical reviews, within the field of British folkloristics Murray's theories were permitted \"to pass unapproved but unchallenged, either out of politeness or because nobody was really interested enough to research the topic\". As evidence, she noted that no substantial research articles on the subject of witchcraft were published in \"Folklore\" between Murray's in 1917 and Rossell Hope Robbins' in 1963. She also highlighted that when regional studies of British folklore were published in this period by folklorists like Theo Brown, Ruth Tongue, or Enid Porter, none adopted the Murrayite framework for interpreting witchcraft beliefs, thus evidencing her claim that Murray's theories were widely ignored by scholars of folkloristics.\n\nMurray's work was increasingly criticised following her death in 1963, with the definitive academic rejection of the Murrayite witch-cult theory occurring during the 1970s. During these decades, a variety of scholars across Europe and North America – such as Alan Macfarlane, Erik Midelfort, William Monter, Robert Muchembled, Gerhard Schormann, Bente Alver and Bengt Ankarloo – published in-depth studies of the archival records from the witch trials, leaving no doubt that those tried for witchcraft were not practitioners of a surviving pre-Christian religion.\nIn 1971, the English historian Keith Thomas stated that on the basis of this research, there was \"very little evidence to suggest that the accused witches were either devil-worshippers or members of a pagan fertility cult\". He stated that Murray's conclusions were \"almost totally groundless\" because she ignored the systematic study of the trial accounts provided by Ewen and instead used sources very selectively to argue her point.\n\nIn 1975, the historian Norman Cohn commented that Murray's \"knowledge of European history, even of English history, was superficial and her grasp of historical method was non-existent\", adding that her ideas were \"firmly set in an exaggerated and distorted version of the Frazerian mould\". That same year, the historian of religion Mircea Eliade described Murray's work as \"hopelessly inadequate\", containing \"numberless and appalling errors\". In 1996, the feminist historian Diane Purkiss stated that although Murray's thesis was \"intrinsically improbable\" and commanded \"little or no allegiance within the modern academy\", she felt that male scholars like Thomas, Cohn, and Macfarlane had unfairly adopted an androcentric approach by which they contrasted their own, male and methodologically sound interpretation against Murray's \"feminised belief\" about the witch-cult.\n\nHutton stated that Murray had treated her source material with \"reckless abandon\", in that she had taken \"vivid details of alleged witch practices\" from \"sources scattered across a great extent of space and time\" and then declared them to be normative of the cult as a whole. Simpson outlined how Murray had selected her use of evidence very specifically, particularly by ignoring and/or rationalising any accounts of supernatural or miraculous events in the trial records, thereby distorting the events that she was describing. Thus, Simpson pointed out, Murray rationalised claims that the cloven-hoofed Devil appeared at the witches' Sabbath by stating that he was a man with a special kind of shoe, and similarly asserted that witches' claims to have flown through the air on broomsticks were actually based on their practice of either hopping along on broomsticks or smearing hallucinogenic salves onto themselves. Concurring with this assessment, the historian Jeffrey Burton Russell, writing with the independent author Brooks Alexander, stated that \"Murray's use of sources, in general, is appalling\". The pair went on to claim that \"today, scholars are agreed that Murray was more than just wrong – she was completely and embarrassingly wrong on nearly all of her basic premises\".\n\nThe Italian historian Carlo Ginzburg has been cited as being willing to give \"some slight support\" to Murray's theory. Ginzburg stated that although her thesis had been \"formulated in a wholly uncritical way\" and contained \"serious defects\", it did contain \"a kernel of truth\". He stated his opinion that she was right in claiming that European witchcraft had \"roots in an ancient fertility cult\", something that he argued was vindicated by his work researching the \"benandanti\", an agrarian visionary tradition recorded in the Friuli district of Northeastern Italy during the 16th and 17th centuries. Several historians and folklorists have pointed out that Ginzburg's arguments are very different to Murray's: whereas Murray argued for the existence of a pre-Christian witches' cult whose members physically met during the witches' Sabbaths, Ginzburg argued that some of the European visionary traditions that were conflated with witchcraft in the Early Modern period had their origins in pre-Christian fertility religions. Moreover, other historians have expressed criticism of Ginzburg's interpretation of the \"benandanti\"; Cohn stated that there was \"nothing whatsoever\" in the source material to justify the idea that the \"benandanti\" were the \"survival of an age-old fertility cult\". Echoing these views, Hutton commented that Ginzburg's claim that the \"benandanti\"'s visionary traditions were a survival from pre-Christian practices was an idea resting on \"imperfect material and conceptual foundations\". He added that Ginzburg's \"assumption\" that \"what was being dreamed about in the sixteenth century had in fact been acted out in religious ceremonies\" dating to \"pagan times\", was entirely \"an inference of his own\" and not one supported by the documentary evidence.\n\nOn researching the history of UCL's Egyptology department, the historian Rosalind M. Janssen stated that Murray was \"remembered with gratitude and immense affection by all her former students. A wise and witty teacher, two generations of Egyptologists have forever been in her debt.\" Alongside teaching them, Murray was known to socialise with her UCL students outside of class hours. The archaeologist Ralph Merrifield, who knew Murray through the Folklore Society, described her as a \"diminutive and kindly scholar, who radiated intelligence and strength of character into extreme old age\". Davidson, who also knew Murray through the Society, noted that at their meetings \"she would sit near the front, a bent and seemingly guileless old lady dozing peacefully, and then in the middle of a discussion would suddenly intervene with a relevant and penetrating comment which showed that she had missed not one word of the argument\". The later folklorist Juliette Wood noted that many members of the Folklore Society \"remember her fondly\", adding that Murray had been \"especially keen to encourage younger researchers, even those who disagreed with her ideas\".\n\nOne of Murray's friends in the Society, E. O. James, described her as a \"mine of information and a perpetual inspiration ever ready to impart her vast and varied stores of specialised knowledge without reserve, or, be it said, much if any regard for the generally accepted opinions and conclusions of the experts!\" Davidson described her as being \"not at all assertive ... [she] never thrust her ideas on anyone. [In relation to her witch-cult theory,] she behaved in fact rather like someone who was a fully convinced member of some unusual religious sect, or perhaps, of the Freemasons, but never on any account got into arguments about it in public.\" The archaeologist Glyn Daniel observed that Murray remained mentally alert into her old age, commenting that \"her vigour and forthrightness and ruthless energy never deserted her\".\n\nMurray never married, instead devoting her life to her work, and for this reason, Hutton drew comparisons between her and two other prominent female British scholars of the period, Jane Harrison and Jessie Weston. Murray's biographer Kathleen L. Sheppard stated that she was deeply committed to public outreach, particularly when it came to Egyptology, and that as such she \"wanted to change the means by which the public obtained knowledge about Egypt's history: she wished to throw open the doors to the scientific laboratory and invite the public in\". She considered travel to be one of her favourite activities, although due to restraints on her time and finances she was unable to do this regularly; her salary remained small and the revenue from her books was meagre.\n\nRaised a devout Christian by her mother, Murray had initially become a Sunday School teacher to preach the faith, but after entering the academic profession she rejected religion, gaining a reputation among other members of the Folklore Society as a noted sceptic and a rationalist. She was openly critical of organised religion, although continued to maintain a personal belief in a God of some sort, relating in her autobiography that she believed in \"an unseen over-ruling Power\", \"which science calls Nature and religion calls God\".\nShe was also a believer and a practitioner of magic, performing curses against those she felt deserved it; in one case she cursed a fellow academic, Jaroslav Černý, when she felt that his promotion to the position of Professor of Egyptology over her friend Walter Bryan Emery was unworthy. Her curse entailed mixing up ingredients in a frying pan, and was undertaken in the presence of two colleagues. In another instance, she was claimed to have created a wax image of Kaiser Wilhelm II and then melted it during the First World War.\n\nHutton noted that Murray was one of the earliest women to \"make a serious impact upon the world of professional scholarship\", and the archaeologist Niall Finneran described her as \"one of the greatest characters of post-war British archaeology\". Upon her death, Daniel referred to her as \"the Grand Old Woman of Egyptology\", with Hutton noting that Egyptology represented \"the core of her academic career\". In 2014, Thornton referred to her as \"one of Britain's most famous Egyptologists\". However, according to the archaeologist Ruth Whitehouse, Murray's contributions to archaeology and Egyptology were often overlooked as her work was overshadowed by that of Petrie, to the extent that she was often thought of primarily as one of Petrie's assistants rather than as a scholar in her own right. By her retirement she had come to be highly regarded within the discipline, although, according to Whitehouse, Murray's reputation declined following her death, something that Whitehouse attributed to the rejection of her witch-cult theory and the general erasure of women archaeologists from the discipline's male-dominated history.\n\nIn his obituary for Murray in \"Folklore\", James noted that her death was \"an event of unusual interest and importance in the annals of the Folk-Lore Society in particular as well as in the wider sphere in which her influence was felt in so many directions and\ndisciplines\". However, later academic folklorists, such as Simpson and Wood, have cited Murray and her witch-cult theory as an embarrassment to their field, and to the Folklore Society specifically. Simpson suggested that Murray's position as President of the Society was a causal factor in the mistrustful attitude that many historians held toward folkloristics as an academic discipline, as they erroneously came to believe that all folklorists endorsed Murray's ideas. Similarly, Catherine Noble stated that \"Murray caused considerable damage to the study of witchcraft\".\n\nIn 1935, UCL introduced the Margaret Murray Prize, awarded to the student who is deemed to have produced the best dissertation in Egyptology; it continued to be presented annually into the 21st century. In 1969, UCL named one of their common rooms in her honour, but it was converted into an office in 1989. In June 1983, Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother visited the room and there was gifted a copy of Murray's \"My First Hundred Years\". UCL also hold two busts of Murray, one kept in the Petrie Museum and the other in the library of the UCL Institute of Archaeology. This sculpture was commissioned by one of her students, Violet MacDermot, and produced by the artist Stephen Rickard. UCL also possess a watercolour painting of Murray by Winifred Brunton; formerly exhibited in the Petrie Gallery, it was later placed into the Art Collection stores.\nIn 2013, on the 150th anniversary of Murray's birth and the 50th of her death, the UCL Institute of Archaeology's Ruth Whitehouse described Murray as \"a remarkable woman\" whose life was \"well worth celebrating, both in the archaeological world at large and especially in UCL\".\n\nThe historian of archaeology Rosalind M. Janssen titled her study of Egyptology at UCL \"The First Hundred Years\" \"as a tribute\" to Murray. Murray's friend Margaret Stefana Drower authored a short biography of her, which was included as a chapter in the 2004 edited volume on \"Breaking Ground: Pioneering Women Archaeologists\". In 2013, Lexington Books published \"The Life of Margaret Alice Murray: A Woman's Work in Archaeology\", a biography of Murray authored by Kathleen L. Sheppard, then an assistant professor at Missouri University of Science and Technology; the book was based upon Sheppard's doctoral dissertation produced at the University of Oklahoma. Although characterising it as being \"written in a clear and engaging manner\", one reviewer noted that Sheppard's book focuses on Murray the \"scientist\" and as such neglects to discuss Murray's involvement in magical practices and her relationship with Wicca.\n\nMurray's witch-cult theories provided the blueprint for the contemporary Pagan religion of Wicca, with Murray being referred to as the \"Grandmother of Wicca\". The Pagan studies scholar Ethan Doyle White stated that it was the theory which \"formed the historical narrative around which Wicca built itself\", for on its emergence in England during the 1940s and 1950s, Wicca claimed to be the survival of this witch-cult. Wicca's theological structure, revolving around a Horned God and Mother Goddess, was adopted from Murray's ideas about the ancient witch-cult, and Wiccan groups were named \"covens\" and their meetings termed \"esbats\", both words that Murray had popularised. As with Murray's witch-cult, Wicca's practitioners entered via an initiation ceremony; Murray's claims that witches wrote down their spells in a book may have been an influence on Wicca's Book of Shadows. Wicca's early system of seasonal festivities were also based on Murray's framework.\n\nNoting that there is no evidence of Wicca existing before the publication of Murray's books, Merrifield commented that for those in 20th century Britain who wished to form their own witches' covens, \"Murray may have seemed the ideal fairy godmother, and her theory became the pumpkin coach that could transport them into the realm of fantasy for which they longed\". The historian Philip Heselton suggested that the New Forest coven – the oldest alleged Wiccan group – was founded \"circa\" 1935 by esotericists aware of Murray's theory and who may have believed themselves to be reincarnated witch-cult members. It was Gerald Gardner, who claimed to be an initiate of the New Forest coven, who established the tradition of Gardnerian Wicca and popularised the religion; according to Simpson, Gardner was the only member of the Folklore Society to \"wholeheartedly\" accept Murray's witch-cult hypothesis. The duo knew each other, with Murray writing the foreword to Gardner's 1954 book \"Witchcraft Today\", although in that foreword she did not explicitly specify whether she believed Gardner's claim that he had discovered a survival of her witch-cult. In 2005, Noble suggested that \"Murray's name might be all but forgotten today if it were not for Gerald Gardner\".\n\nMurray's witch-cult theories were likely also a core influence on the non-Gardnerian Wiccan traditions that were established in Britain and Australia between 1930 and 1970 by the likes of Bob Clay-Egerton, Robert Cochrane, Charles Cardell, and Rosaleen Norton.\nThe prominent Wiccan Doreen Valiente eagerly searched for what she believed were other surviving remnants of the Murrayite witch-cult around Britain. Valiente remained committed to a belief in Murray's witch-cult after its academic rejection, and she described Murray as \"a remarkable woman\". In San Francisco during the late 1960s, Murray's writings were among the sources used by Aidan A. Kelly in the creation of his Wiccan tradition, the New Reformed Orthodox Order of the Golden Dawn. In Los Angeles during the early 1970s, they were used by Zsuzsanna Budapest when she was establishing her feminist-oriented tradition of Dianic Wicca. The Murrayite witch-cult theory also provided the basis for the ideas espoused in \"Witchcraft and the Gay Counterculture\", a 1978 book written by the American gay liberation activist Arthur Evans.\n\nMembers of the Wiccan community gradually became aware of academia's rejection of the witch-cult theory. Accordingly, belief in its literal truth declined during the 1980s and 1990s, with many Wiccans instead coming to view it as a myth that conveyed metaphorical or symbolic truths. Others insisted that the historical origins of the religion did not matter and that instead Wicca was legitimated by the spiritual experiences it gave to its participants. In response, Hutton authored \"The Triumph of the Moon\", a historical study exploring Wicca's early development; on publication in 1999 the book exerted a strong impact on the British Pagan community, further eroding belief in the Murrayite theory among Wiccans. Conversely, other practitioners clung on to the theory, treating it as an important article of faith and rejecting post-Murrayite scholarship on European witchcraft. Several prominent practitioners continued to insist that Wicca was a religion with origins stretching back to the Palaeolithic, but others rejected the validity of historical scholarship and emphasised intuition and emotion as the arbiter of truth. A few \"counter-revisionist\" Wiccans – among them Donald H. Frew, Jani Farrell-Roberts, and Ben Whitmore – published critiques in which they attacked post-Murrayite scholarship on matters of detail, but none defended Murray's original hypothesis completely.\n\nSimpson noted that the publication of the Murray thesis in the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\" made it accessible to \"journalists, film-makers popular novelists and thriller writers\", who adopted it \"enthusiastically\". It influenced the work of Aldous Huxley and Robert Graves. It was also an influence on the American horror author H. P. Lovecraft, who cited \"The Witch-Cult in Western Europe\" in his writings about the fictional cult of Cthulhu.\n\nThe author Sylvia Townsend Warner cited Murray's work on the witch-cult as an influence on her 1926 novel \"Lolly Willowes\", and sent a copy of her book to Murray in appreciation, with the two meeting for lunch shortly after. There was nevertheless some difference in their depictions of the witch-cult; whereas Murray had depicted an organised pre-Christian cult, Warner depicted a vague family tradition that was explicitly Satanic.\nIn 1927, Warner lectured on the subject of witchcraft, exhibiting a strong influence from Murray's work. Analysing the relationship between Murray and Warner, the English literature scholar Mimi Winick characterised both as being \"engaged in imagining new possibilities for women in modernity\".\n\nA bibliography of Murray's published work was published in \"Folklore\" by Wilfrid Bonser in 1961, and her friend Drower produced a posthumous limited bibliography in 2004, and another limited bibliography appeared in Kathleen L. Sheppard's 2013 biography of her.\n\n"}
{"id": "29965954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29965954", "title": "Massachusetts Register", "text": "Massachusetts Register\n\nThe Massachusetts Register is the bi-weekly publication mandated by the Administrative Procedures Act (Massachusetts General Law Chapter 30A); it is an official organ of the Massachusetts state government. The Register publishes new and amended regulations; notices of hearings and comment periods related to prospective or draft regulations; and a cumulative index of regulatory changes for the current year. The Register also publishes notices of public interest, as well as opinions of the Attorney General and Executive Orders. The Register is a printed publication; online subscription is also available. This era of publication of the Massachusetts Register began in April 1976.\n\nFrom 1767 to 1878, the Massachusetts Register (est.1767) was an annual publication in Massachusetts containing \"statistics of civil officers; professional men; societies and associations, literary, scientific, religious, and benevolent; commerce; mercantile affairs; naval and military officers; courts and justices; institutions of learning, and also those for benevolent purposes; corporations of all kinds.\" Publishers in Boston included \"in 1767, Mein & Fleming, at the London Bookstore, north side of King Street, now State Street; in 1774, Mills & Hicks, School Street, next door to Brackett's Tavern, sign of Cromwell's Head; in 1779, Thomas and John Fleet, sign of the Bible and Heart, corner of Cornhill and Water Street; in 1801, John West and Manning & Loring, until 1813, when its publishers were West, Richardson, & Lord, and James Loring.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19996110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19996110", "title": "Musculoskeletal Tumor Surgery", "text": "Musculoskeletal Tumor Surgery\n\nMusculoskeletal Tumor Surgery () is a widely cited book about bone and soft tissue tumors. The author is William F. Enneking, a tutor and leader in orthopedic oncology. It was first published by Churchill Livingstone in 1983.\n"}
{"id": "2362033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2362033", "title": "NASCAR's 50 Greatest Drivers", "text": "NASCAR's 50 Greatest Drivers\n\nNASCAR's 50 Greatest Drivers is an alphabetical list of NASCAR drivers.\n\nIn 1998, as part of its 50th anniversary celebration, NASCAR gathered a panel to select the \"50 Greatest NASCAR Drivers of All Time.\" It was inspired in part by the NBA's decision to select the 50 Greatest Players in NBA History on its 50th anniversary in 1996. An independent group of 51 individuals representing various NASCAR roles were asked to give their objective and educated opinions on who the 50 greatest drivers in NASCAR history were. To quote Bill France, president of NASCAR:\n\nThe living members of this group were honored on February 15, 1998 during pre-race festivities for the 1998 Daytona 500 at Daytona International Speedway.\n\n"}
{"id": "48958144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48958144", "title": "PIX Publishing", "text": "PIX Publishing\n\nPIX, Inc was an early New York City photo bureau which followed European, particularly German, precedents. From 1935 to 1969 it supplied news and feature photos to magazines, especially \"Life\" and, later, \"Sports Illustrated.\"\n\nThe agency was founded in New York City at 250 Park Avenue in November 1935 by Leon Daniel and Celia Kutschuk. It pre-dates the more famous Magnum (begun in 1947). Born in the Ukraine, Kutschuk had studied photojournalism at Rhine University, and both had worked as picture editors at the Associated Press office in Berlin, which was headed by American Louis Lochner from 1928 until 1941, when Germany and the United States declared war and Lochner was held and then deported as an enemy alien. Jewish employees were sacked, and many fled Europe.\n\nPIX acted as an intermediary between émigré photographers and the American magazine and newspaper market, profiting from the development of photojournalism in the USA in the 1930s onwards. As many of the photographers for PIX were naturalized American citizens, they were not allowed in the war theaters during WWII, so they stayed home and covered the home front, though during the Korean War and Cold War, Ed Feingersh produced striking reportage.\n\nThe first-signed photographers of the agency were Alfred Eisenstaedt and Georg Karger. Eisenstaedt (1898–1995) was the best-known member of PIX and until the 1950s credited his work to PIX, Inc. He left PIX about 1957 over a royalty disagreement. Robert Capa and Cornell Capa were also briefly associated with PIX (Cornell worked as a printer in the laboratory). German George Karger (1909–1973) left banking for a career in stage photography. Jerry Cooke (b. Yuri Kutschuk, 1922–2005) was the nephew of Celia Kutschuk and initially worked in the agency darkroom before becoming a photographer and producing work for \"Life,\" \"Fortune,\" \"Collier's\", \"Time\", \"Sports Illustrated\" and European publications. Lawrence Fried (1926-1983), a World War II veteran, worked steadily as a photo-journalist for \"The Saturday Evening Post\", \"The New York Times\", \"Vogue\", \"Collier's\", and \"Parade Magazine\" with over 70 covers for \"Newsweek\". He was the recipient of the Photographer of the Year award by the Overseas Press Club, the Outstanding Service to ASMP award and the Benjamin Franklin Award.\n\nEileen Darby (Lester) (1916 – April 21, 2004) worked in the PIX darkroom from 1937, in the same way as Cornell Capa, but from 1939 started photographing for the agency, which sent her on theatrical assignments, since players and producers were used to female photographers, and she subsequently founded her own agency, Graphic House, in 1941. Other PIX photographers included Hans Knopf (1907–1967), Ed Feingersh, Bob Schwalberg, Lawrence Fried, Bob Henriques, Garry Winogrand, and George Zimbel.\n\nPIX was dissolved in 1969 with the rise of television which displaced the big picture magazines and most of its members moved their business to other picture agencies.\n\nAn archive of PIX photos was amassed by Emil Klinsky (1899–?), the bulk of which is now at the Art Gallery of Ontario (AGO), and the remainder at Spaarnestad Photo in The Hague, Netherlands.\n"}
{"id": "30853299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30853299", "title": "Palm Bay Imports, Inc. v. Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin Maison Fondee en 1772", "text": "Palm Bay Imports, Inc. v. Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin Maison Fondee en 1772\n\nPalm Bay Imports, Inc. v. Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin Maison Fondee en 1772, 396 F.3d 1369 (Fed. Cir. 2005), was a case decided by the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit clarifying the doctrine of foreign equivalents. The court explained that there is a threshold limitation to applying the doctrine of foreign equivalents. The doctrine \"should be applied only when it is likely that the ordinary American purchaser would 'stop and translate [the word] into its English equivalent.'\"\n"}
{"id": "33169412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33169412", "title": "Plate v Durst", "text": "Plate v Durst\n\nPlate v. Durst, 42 W.Va. 63, 66-67, 24 S.E. 580, 581, 32 LRA 404 (1896) is a leading case in the law of contracts. The defendant promised plaintiff £1000 and a diamond ring if she would remain his domestic servant for 10 years, and she did, but then he claimed the promise was only in jest. Held that there was a valid contract:\n"}
{"id": "16810311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16810311", "title": "Postal museum", "text": "Postal museum\n\nA postal museum is a museum dedicated to the display of objects relating to the postal service. A subcategory of postal museums are philatelic museums, which focus on philately and postage stamps.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31564560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31564560", "title": "Pschyrembel Klinisches Wörterbuch", "text": "Pschyrembel Klinisches Wörterbuch\n\nPschyrembel most commonly refers to a popular medical dictionary in German, the \"Pschyrembel Clinical Dictionary (Pschyrembel Klinisches Wörterbuch)\".\n\nThe \"Pschyrembel Clinical Dictionary\" alphabetically lists and explains all common/important medical words.\n\nHistorically, the predecessor of this work was the \"\", by Otto Dornblüth, M.D., published in 1894 by Veit & Comp. publishers, Leipzig, Germany. This publisher later merged with four other publishers to become Walter de Gruyter publishers, Berlin, Germany (often abbreviated to \"de Gruyter\").\n\nThis preceding work was thoroughly revised by Willibald Pschyrembel, M.D. (1901–1987), a professor of medicine, in Berlin, Germany. Willibald Pschyrembel was the sole editor of this dictionary from 1931 until 1982.\n\nThe medical dictionary became very popular with physicians, medical personnel and medical students in the three German speaking countries. It simply became known as the \"Pschyrembel\". De Gruyter has been publishing the Pschyrembel ever since. The current edition is the 262nd edition, published in July 2010.\n\nThe current edition – as well as many older editions – has the entry \"stone louse\". The text in this entry is most serious. For example, the Latin name of this louse is specified as \"Petrophaga lorioti\", and the mode of transmission is described. However, the stone louse is only a fictitious animal created by the German satirical comedian Loriot to parody nature documentaries.\n\nThis humorous entry has become so popular in Germany that many Germans who are not connected to medicine professionally still know of the existence of the Pschyrembel because of this entertaining entry.\n\nFrom a commercial point of view, \"Pschyrembel\" not only refers to the popular \"Pschyrembel Clinical Dictionary\", but is the trade name for a series medical reference works published by de Gruyter.\n\nOn the one hand, there is not only the printed version of the dictionary, but also an online version, a PDA version, a pocket PC version and an Apple app version.\n\nOn the other hand, de Gruyter offers further products under the trade name Pschyrembel. These include, for example, a dictionary for nursing sciences and a dictionary for diabetelogy.\n\n"}
{"id": "4467825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4467825", "title": "Quaker Meeting House (Peabody Essex Museum)", "text": "Quaker Meeting House (Peabody Essex Museum)\n\nThe first Quaker Meeting House (Federal Garden area) in Salem, Massachusetts was built during the autumn of 1688 by Quaker Thomas Maule. Much of the building was constructed using old timber repurposed from other buildings. \n\nOn October 13, 1690, Maule conveyed the Meeting House and land for £45 to Josiah and Daniel Southwick (sons of persecuted and banished Quakers Lawrence Southwick and Cassandra Burnell Southwick), Samuel Gaskill (husband of the Southwick's daughter Provided), Caleb Buffum, Christopher Foster, and Sarah Stone. Meetings were held in this building for nearly 30 years. Despite the small number of attendees, by 1714 additions were made after the Meeting House was considered inadequate in size. On October 3, 1716, the four surviving deed-holding Friends agreed to sell the Meeting House and land back to Maule for £25.\n\nOver the years, until sometime around 1860 when it was moved to the grounds of the Essex Institute, the building was used as a small home by several families, a barn, cow barn, hen house, and finally a wood shed. Several children were born in the building between 1775-1787. \n\nThe current building, now part of the Peabody Essex Museum and erected in 1865 to resemble a Post-Medieval or First Period structure, is a reconstruction of the Quaker Meeting House and may contain some of the original timber framing. It is a very early example of an architectural re-creation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1368476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1368476", "title": "Retrofile", "text": "Retrofile\n\nRetrofile is one of the first major stock photography agencies. It was founded in 1920 by H. Armstrong Roberts. In late 2005, Getty Images acquired the Retrofile brand name and trademark. Some of Armstrong's collection not acquired by Getty will be available at Classic Stock.\n\n"}
{"id": "174370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174370", "title": "Root name server", "text": "Root name server\n\nA root name server is a name server for the root zone of the Domain Name System (DNS) of the Internet. It directly answers requests for records in the root zone and answers other requests by returning a list of the authoritative name servers for the appropriate top-level domain (TLD). The root name servers are a critical part of the Internet infrastructure because they are the first step in translating (resolving) human readable host names into IP addresses that are used in communication between Internet hosts.\n\nA combination of limits in the DNS and certain protocols, namely the practical size of unfragmented User Datagram Protocol (UDP) packets, resulted in a decision to limit the number of root servers to thirteen server addresses. The use of anycast addressing permits the actual number of root server instances to be much larger, and is 937 .\n\nThe DNS is a hierarchical naming system for computers, services, or any resource participating in the Internet. The top of that hierarchy is the root domain. The root domain does not have a formal name and its label in the DNS hierarchy is an empty string. All fully qualified domain names (FQDNs) on the Internet can be regarded as ending with this empty string for the root domain, and therefore ending in a full stop character (the label delimiter), e.g., \"www.example.com.\". This is generally implied rather than explicit, as modern DNS software does not actually require that the terminating dot be included when attempting to translate a domain name to an IP address.\n\nThe root domain contains all top-level domains of the Internet. , it contains 1058 TLDs, including 730 generic top-level domains (gTLDs) and 301 country code top-level domains (ccTLDs) in the root domain. In addition, the ARPA domain is used for technical name spaces in the management of Internet addressing and other resources. A TEST domain is used for testing internationalized domain names.\n\nWhen a computer on the Internet needs to resolve a domain name, it uses resolver software to perform the lookup. A resolver breaks the name up into its labels from right to left. The first component (TLD) is queried using a root server to obtain the responsible authoritative server. Queries for each label return more specific name servers until a name server returns the answer of the original query.\nIn practice, most of this information does not change very often over a period of hours and therefore it is cached by intermediate name servers or by a name cache built into the user's application. DNS lookups to the root name servers may therefore be relatively infrequent. A survey in 2003 reports that only 2% of all queries to the root servers were legitimate. Incorrect or non-existent caching was responsible for 75% of the queries, 12.5% were for unknown TLDs, 7% were for lookups using IP addresses as if they were domain names, etc. Some misconfigured desktop computers even tried to update the root server records for the TLDs. A similar list of observed problems and recommended fixes has been published in RFC 4697.\n\nAlthough any local implementation of DNS can implement its own private root name servers, the term \"root name server\" is generally used to describe the thirteen well-known root name servers that implement the root name space domain for the Internet's official global implementation of the Domain Name System.\n\nThere are 13 logical root name servers specified, with logical names in the form \"letter\".root-servers.net, where \"letter\" ranges from a to m. The choice of thirteen name servers was made because of limitations in the original DNS specification, which specifies a maximum packet size of 512 bytes when using the User Datagram Protocol (UDP). Technically however, fourteen name servers fit into an IPv4 packet. The addition of IPv6 addresses for the root name servers requires more than 512 bytes, which is facilitated by the EDNS0 extension to the DNS standard.\n\nThis does not mean that there are only 13 physical servers; each operator uses redundant computer equipment to provide reliable service even if failure of hardware or software occurs. Additionally, all operate in multiple geographical locations using a routing technique called anycast addressing, providing increased performance and even more fault tolerance. An informational homepage exists for every logical server (except G-Root) under the Root Server Technical Operations Association domain with web address in the form http://\"letter\".root-servers.org/, where \"letter\" ranges from a to m.\n\nTen servers were originally in the United States; some are now operated using anycast addressing. Three servers were originally located in Stockholm (I-Root), Amsterdam (K-Root), and Tokyo (M-Root) respectively.\nOlder servers had their own name before the policy of using similar names was established. With anycast, most of the physical root servers are now outside the United States, allowing for high performance worldwide.\n\nThere are also several alternative namespace systems with an alternative DNS root using their own set of root name servers that exist in parallel to the mainstream name servers. The first, AlterNIC, generated a substantial amount of press.\n\nThe function of a root name server may also be implemented locally, or on a provider network. Such servers are synchronized with the official root zone file as published by ICANN, and do not constitute an alternate root.\n\nAs the root name servers are an important part of the Internet, they have come under attack several times, although none of the attacks have ever been serious enough to severely affect the performance of the Internet.\n\nThe DNS Root Server System Advisory Committee is an ICANN committee. However, the root zone is controlled by the United States Department of Commerce who must approve all changes to the root zone file requested by ICANN. ICANN's bylaws assign authority over the operation of the root name servers of the Domain Name System to the DNS Root Server System Advisory Committee.\n\nThe root zone file is a small (about 2MB) data set whose publication is the primary purpose of root name servers.\n\nThe root zone file is at the apex of a hierarchical distributed database called the Domain Name System (DNS). This database is used by almost all Internet applications to translate worldwide unique names such as \"www.wikipedia.org\" into other identifiers such as IP addresses.\n\nThe contents of the root zone file is a list of names and numeric IP addresses of the authoritative DNS servers for all top-level domains (TLDs) such as com, org, edu, and the country code top-level domains. On 12 December 2004, 773 different authoritative servers for the TLDs were listed. Later the number of TLDs increased greatly. , the root zone consisted of 1058 TLDs. Other name servers forward queries for which they do not have any information about authoritative servers to a root name server. The root name server, using its root zone file, answers with a referral to the authoritative servers for the appropriate TLD or with an indication that no such TLD exists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9120954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9120954", "title": "Special creation", "text": "Special creation\n\nIn Creationism, special creation is a theological doctrine which states that the universe and all life in it originated in its present form by unconditional fiat or divine decree.\n\nRoman Catholicism uses the phrase in two different senses: both to refer to the doctrine of immediate or special creation of each human soul, and to refer, in the context of theistic evolution, to the \"special creation of humans\", a point of hominization where evolved near-human animals were given souls by God, and became fully human; this belief is also called \"special transformism\".\n\nIn the creationist use of the phrase, special creation adheres to a literal interpretation of the account of creation in the Book of Genesis, accepting it as an accurate historical account of the creation of the universe in essentially its present form over the course of six 24-hour days.\n\nDuane Gish of the Institute for Creation Research defined \"special creation\" as being creation using supernatural processes:\nDennis Jensen of the American Scientific Affiliation states that special creation means that complex living things did not descend from simpler ones but were created independently.\"\n\nJames B. Stenson writes that for fundamentalists, special creation follows from a literal reading of the Genesis account; there is a \"special creation\" of each separate kind in six 24-hour days, starting a few thousand years ago.\n\nIn \"The Mystery of Life's Origin\", Charles B. Thaxton argues for \"Special Creation by a Creator beyond the Cosmos\", and asserts that special creation holds \"that the \"source that produced life\" was intelligent\".\n\nThe Pontifical Biblical Commission issued a decree ratified by Pope Pius X on June 30, 1909, that special creation only applied to man, not to the other species. In 2004, the International Theological Commission, then under the presidency of Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, published a paper in which it accepts the current scientific accounts of the history of the universe commencing in the Big Bang about 15 billion years ago and of the evolution of all life on earth including humans from the micro organisms commencing about 4 billion years ago. The Vatican teaches that God acted indirectly through causal chains operating from the beginning of cosmic history, which prepared the way for the moment of transition to the spiritual with the special creation of the human soul. This special creation, the Vatican says, established the basis for a divine intimacy which embraces every single human person from the first moment of his or her existence.\n"}
{"id": "48695593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48695593", "title": "The Great Snake", "text": "The Great Snake\n\n\"The Great Snake\" or \"The Great Serpent\" (, lit. \"Of the Great Serpent\") is a folk tale (the so-called \"skaz\") of the Ural region of Siberia collected and reworked by Pavel Bazhov. It was first published in the 11th issue of the \"Krasnaya Nov\" literary magazine in 1936 and later the same year as a part of the collection \"Prerevolutionary Folklore of the Urals\". It was later released as a part of \"The Malachite Casket\" collection. The story was translated from Russian into English by Alan Moray Williams in 1944, and by Eve Manning in the 1950s.\n\nIn this \"skaz\", two boys meet the legendary creature the Great Snake (also translated as Poloz the Great Snake; ).\n\nThe story of two brothers is then continued in \"The Snake Trail\", published in 1939.\n\nThis \"skaz\" was first published together with \"The Mistress of the Copper Mountain\" and \"Beloved Name\" (also known as \"That Dear Name\") in the 11th issue of \"Krasnaya Nov\" in 1936. \"Beloved Name\" was published on the pages 5–9, \"The Great Snake\" on pp. 9–12, and \"The Mistress of the Copper Mountain\" on pp. 12–17. These tales are the ones that follow the original Ural miners' folklore most closely. They were included in the collection \"Prerevolutionary Folklore of the Urals\" (), released later the same year by Sverdlovsk Publishing House. It was later released as a part of \"The Malachite Casket\" collection on 28 January 1939.\n\nIn 1944 the story was translated from Russian into English by Alan Moray Williams and published by Hutchinson as a part of \"The Malachite Casket: Tales from the Urals\" collection. The title was translated as \"The Great Snake\". In the 1950s another translation of \"The Malachite Casket\" was made by Eve Manning The story was published as \"The Great Serpent\".\n\n\"Poloz\" () is the word for the snakes from the Colubridae family. The character of Poloz the Great Snake is based the Ural legends, miner's omens, and on the superstitions of the Khanty, the Mansi people, and the Bashkirs. The legends about Poloz, a giant serpent 6–10 meters long, still exist at the Urals. In the Bashkir folklore there is the character the Master of Gold, which can appear as various animals, including the snake. At the Urals he is also called The Serpent or The Snake King (Змеиный царь, \"Zmeinyj tsar\"). It is believed that the grass turns yellow where he touches the surface. Poloz and the snake trails in general indicate the location of gold. Slowworms are his servants.\n\nGeographically, the folk tales came from the old Sysert Mining District, which included five mining plants, i. e. the Sysert Plant (Sysertsky or Sysertsky Zavod), the head plant of the district, Polevskoy (also known as Polevaya or Poleva), Seversky, Verkhny (Verkh-Sysertsky), and Ilyinsky (Nizhve-Sysertsky). The appearances of Poloz were often connected with the Polevskoy plant.\n\nBazhov also introduced numerous daughters of the Snake, including Golden Hair from the tale of the same name. The relationship between him and another folklore creature, The Mistress of the Copper Mountain, is unclear. Bazhov noted that none of the people that he talked to seemed to know it. Bazhov believed that the most ancient creature of the Ural mythology is Azov Girl, the Snake appeared next, and the last one was the Mistress. It is further proved by the fact that Poloz is a zoomorphic being, as he probably comes from the era of totemistic beliefs.\n\nIn this \"skaz\", the old miner Levonty, a weak and ill man who spent all his life mining, decides to try gold digging to make ends meet. He can hardly work, and his family is very poor. One day he goes to the mine with his two little sons as usual. In the evening he goes to the river to fish. While the boys are waiting for Levonty, they are approached by a soldier Semyonich, a strange man who \"had a lot of books\" and \"every evening he'd sit reading them\". Semyonich has a certain reputation among the workers for having money seemingly out of nowhere. He feeds the children some bread and learns about a dire situation in their house. He promises to help them, but warns to keep it secret. Semyonich goes off and comes back with a green-eyed man.\nHe was all yellow, is tunic and trousers were gold, that brocade the priests wear, and his wide girdle with a pattern and tassels hanging, from it was brocade too, only it shone greenish. His cap was yellow with red flaps on both sides, and his boots were gold too. [...] And his eyes were green, like a cat's. But they had a kind look. He was the same height as Semyonich and not stout, but heavy. The earth sank under him where he stood.\nThe person's face is yellow too. \"But what if we spoil these boys?\", he asks Semyonich kindly. Semyonich defends the boys as humble, hard-working and not greedy. The man consents to his judgement, stating that he knows their father will not live long. He then tells the children to \"watch for the trail\" and dig along it. The man transforms into a giant serpent, and moves away leaving the trail behind. Semyonich explains that the man is Poloz the Great Snake (alternative translation: The Great Serpent), the lord of all that is gold. Next morning, the boys start digging for gold and quickly find two gold nuggets.\n\nBazhov's Poloz, in addition to his traditional function of a treasure guardian, also fulfils the concept of social justice. He rewards the worthy and is dangerous to everyone else, especially to those who starts quarrels because of gold. His gifts are not supposed to be shared.\n\nIn Bazhov's tales, his constant opponent is the wise eagle-owl.\n\nSemyonich is a classical Bazhov's character. On the one hand, he is a truth seeker who is in contact with magical beings, on the other hand, he is an outsider, who is not accepted in the society.\n\nDenis Zherdev compared Poloz and the Mistress of the Copper Mountain, pointing out the male domain of Poloz is the world of order, structure, and hierarchy, and the power over gold is associated with the power of men. Unlike the Mistress, his appearance does not bring in unpredictability and destruction.\n\nThe Soviet playwright Klavdiya Filippova combined \"The Great Snake\" and \"The Snake Trail\" to create \"Poloz's Daughter\" (). The play was published in the 1949 collection \"Plays for Children's Theatre Based on Bazhov's Stories\" in Sverdlovsk.\n\nA 2007 Russian film \"The Golden Snake\" () is loosely based on \"The Great Snake\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21037041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21037041", "title": "The New Encyclopedia of Snakes", "text": "The New Encyclopedia of Snakes\n\nThe New Encyclopedia of Snakes is an encyclopedia by Chris Mattison.\n\nThe encyclopedia has information about snakes that is listed from A-Z. The book has pictures and information about snake morphology, habitats, diets, hunting and defense behaviors, taxonomy, and a history of human responses to snakes.\n\nIt was reviewed by \"Science Activities\", \"Washington Times\", \"Booklist\", King Features Syndicate, \"Wildlife Activist\", \"Dover Post\", \"Choice\", and \"Science Books and Fun\".\n"}
{"id": "51860107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51860107", "title": "Westernisation in Hong Kong", "text": "Westernisation in Hong Kong\n\nAfter the First Opium War in 1842, China ceded Hong Kong Island to Britain under the Nanking Treaty. Subsequently in 1898, China leased the lands surrounding Hong Kong Island which includes the New Territories, the Kowloon peninsula and outlying islands to Britain rent free for 99 years under the Convention for the Extension of Hong Kong Territory following China's defeat in the First Sino Japanese War. These unequal treaties has granted Britain the power to colonise the whole of Hong Kong. Even though Hong Kong was eventually handed back to China at the handover in 1997, the British culture has remained evident in Hong Kong's way of life in various aspects after more than 150 years of British rule. In several major aspects such as the education system, language and food culture, the British culture has been so ingrained during the colonial rule that it has become an integral part of Hong Kong culture.\n\nDue to the colonial history of Hong Kong, it has become an extremely popular destination for expatriate workers. According to statistics, 4.6% of the 7 million population in Hong Kong are expat workers. Besides from its colonial history, Hong Kong also attracts a large number of expat workers from overseas since it is one of the major financial centres in the world with attractive employment options, low tax rates, well developed public transport network and its bilingualism. Although expats now have the options of other financial centres in Asia such as Shanghai, Beijing and Singapore, many still prefer to work in Hong Kong as salaries in average are relatively higher than that of other major financial centres while taxes remain low. As a result, Hong Kong has been westernised continuously even after the 1997 handover.\n\nThe education system in Hong Kong is mainly based on the UK education model under the British colonial rule. Following the introduction of the comprehensive education system in the UK in the 1960s, Hong Kong also adopted this new education system. Under the British comprehensive education model, students in Hong Kong attend 3 years of secondary middle school, 2 years of secondary school studies for the Hong Kong Certificate of Education Examination (equivalent of the UK's GCSE), 2 years of secondary school studies for the Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination (equivalent of the UK's GCS Advanced Level Exam) and 3 years of tertiary education. Throughout the colonisation period, emphasis has been placed on a high level of Chinese English bilingualism in education which means the English language has been a compulsory and assessable subject that is a part of the core curriculum for all primary and secondary schools. Before the 1997 handover, over 80% of the secondary schools in Hong Kong chose English as the medium of instruction with most textbooks and assessments in English.\n\nImmediately after the 1997 handover, the Hong Kong Education Department has issued a Guidance to encourage secondary schools into switching their medium of instruction to Chinese allowing only schools that can meet the requirements set out in the Guidance to continue using English as a medium of instruction. Ever since the implementation of this policy, English as a medium of instruction (EMI) schools have been considered as academically stronger schools whereas the Chinese as a medium of instruction (CMI) schools are perceived to be for lower achieving students.\n\nIn May 2005, the Education and Manpower Bureau has announced a shift from the original British education system to the new academic structure where students now attend 6 years of secondary school and 4 years of tertiary education. Under the new academic structure, both the Hong Kong Certificate of Education Examination and the Hong Kong Advanced Level Examination have been replaced by the new Hong Kong Diploma of Secondary Education Examination (HKDSE) which now resembles the education structure in the United States or China. In spite of the change in the academic structure, English Language remains as a compulsory subject in the Hong Kong education curriculum.\n\nFor over a century of British rule, English was the language used for all official matters by the Hong Kong government until the enactment of the Official Languages Ordinance in 1974 by the government. The Ordinance states that both Chinese and English languages are the official languages of the Hong Kong government which possess equal status. Similarly, the Hong Kong Basic Law that has been in effect upon the 1997 handover also recognises both Chinese and English Languages as the government's official language with Cantonese as the official spoken Chinese language and Traditional Chinese as the official written Chinese by practice. In general, English remains the preferred language in legal, commercial, academic and other professional settings as yet. Due to the equal status of both languages in Hong Kong, most of the government or commercial websites, legislations, documents, most signs such as street signs, signs for public transport or even commercial signs are written in both Chinese and English.\n\nIn fact, Hong Kong has been so greatly westernised that the Cantonese language has borrowed a lot of words from English during the colonisation period and these loanwords have since been integrated as a part of the Hong Kong style Cantonese language. A large number of commonly used Cantonese words are actually phonetic borrowings from the English language which apply the Cantonese phonetic system to represent the most similar pronunciation of those English words.\n\n– Source:\n\nChinese Pidgin English is a language created in the early 17th century by locals in Guangzhou region to facilitate trades between the Chinese and British after the British has established treaty ports in the region after the First Opium War. The Chinese Pidgin English is recorded in the Chinese Almanac (Tung Shing) for readers to learn.\n\nThe epitome of westernised Hong Kong cuisine would be Hong Kong style Cafes (Cha Chaan Teng). The Cha Chaan Teng culture was developed in the 1950s to cater to the increasingly westernised population with fusion dishes that combine western cuisine and Hong Kong cuisine.\n\n– Source:\n"}
{"id": "11461492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11461492", "title": "Williams Rule", "text": "Williams Rule\n\nThe Williams Rule is based on the holding in the Florida state case of \"Williams v. Florida\", 110 So. 2d 654 (Fla., 1959) in which relevant evidence of collateral crimes is admissible at jury trial when it does not go to prove the \"bad character\" or \"criminal propensity\" of the defendant but is used to show motive, intent, knowledge, modus operandi, or lack of mistake. \n\nFollowing cases in the state have molded and defined the applicability of the Williams rule in criminal cases. Varying standards of \"relevance\" seem to apply depending on the prong of the rule applied.\n\nThe legislature of Florida has also codified the Williams Rule in Florida Statute sec. 90.404(2)(a).\n\nIn \"Akers v. State,\" 352 So. 2d 97, the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal clarified that evidence of another crime cannot be introduced unless some relevancy to the trial at hand is shown by evidence. In \"Akers\", the court stated that \"[i]f prosecutors insist on crying the wolf of the Williams Rule they might eventually find the courts hard of hearing.\" Critics of the way the Williams Rule is often used by the prosecution say that trial courts fail to require the requisite showing of relevance to the current issues before allowing the Williams Rule evidence to be introduced. As such, these critics claim that the evidence is in fact being used to show the bad character and criminal propensity of the defendant. Such a use is prohibited by the rules of evidence.\n"}
{"id": "57535108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57535108", "title": "Wooing Play", "text": "Wooing Play\n\nThe Wooing Play was a form of performance found in the folk culture of parts of east-central England. \n\nThe wooing play was performed in a large area of the East Midlands, mostly in Lincolnshire and Nottinghamshire but with some recorded presence in Leicestershire and Rutland.\n\nMany accounts of the wooing play describe its performers as being farm labourers. Ethel H. Rudkin however stated that they were exclusively horsemen, something that the folklorist E. C. Cawte believed was also true of Leicestershire and the adjacent parts of Lincolnshire, an area further south than where Rudkin had conducted her research.\n\nThe use of a hobby horse as part of the wooing play performance was found in a geographically restricted area around the mouth of the River Trent.\nThe use of the hobby horse in the play is not known in Nottinghamshire, although the area in which the wooing play was performed bordered the region in which two Christmas hobby horse traditions, those of Old Tup and Old Horse, were performed.\n\nWhen used in the wooing play, the hobby horse was always recorded as being called a \"hobby horse\", rather than by other names as elsewhere in British Isles.\nDescriptions indicate that it consisted of a large farm sieve which was hung from a man's shoulders, with a wooden horse's head fastened at the front and a tail at the back. A cloth over the man's shoulders was then used to cover the sieve. The tail was sometimes a real horse's tail and was often barbed with hooks or tin-tacks to dissuade people from pulling on it; E. H. Rudkin observed girls who tried to pull a hair from the tail to gain luck and getting scratched as a result. The folklorist E. C. Cawte compared its design to the tourney horse used in the Abbots Bromley Horn Dance, but noted that here there was \"even less attempt to produce the illusion of a horse and rider.\"\n\nAt East Butterwick, the rider is recorded as being decorated with horses' brasses.\nWhen the hobby horse appeared in the play, it did not take a central role in the action, but entered to recite a few lines, having no evident connection with any of the other characters. \n\nLittle is known about the history of the wooing play hobby horse. The oldest possible account came from East Butterwick, where a man recalled it being one of the characters as having been part of the performance circa 1830. The earliest direct observation comes from 1880, produced by Anderson.\nThe hobby horse from Barrow upon Humber was revived for the 1951 Festival of Britain. Cawte noted that this particular performance may have been elaborated for the occasion.\n\n"}
{"id": "49644820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49644820", "title": "Yiqiejing yinyi (Xuanying)", "text": "Yiqiejing yinyi (Xuanying)\n\nThe (c. 649) Yiqiejing yinyi 一切經音義 \"Pronunciation and Meaning in the Complete Buddhist Canon\" is the oldest surviving Chinese dictionary of Buddhist technical terminology, and was the archetype for later Chinese bilingual dictionaries. This specialized glossary was compiled by the Tang dynasty lexicographer monk Xuanying 玄應, who was a translator for the famous pilgrim and Sanskritist monk Xuanzang. When Xuanying died he had only finished 25 chapters of the dictionary, but another Tang monk Huilin 慧琳 compiled an enlarged 100-chapter version with the same title, the (807) \"Yiqiejing yinyi\".\n\nXuanying's dictionary title combines three Chinese words:\nThe term \"yīqièjīng\" 一切經 \"all the sutras; complete Buddhist canon; Tripiṭaka\" first came into use in the Sui dynasty (581-618), also known as the \"Dàzàngjīng\" 大藏經, referring to all the classic scriptures or the entire Buddhist canon (Yong and Peng 2008: 219). The term \"yīnyì\" 音義 \"pronunciation and meaning\", which refers to explaining the phonology and semantics of words, originated in the exegesis of Chinese classics. The Three Kingdoms (220-280) scholar Sun Yan 孫炎 used it in his commentary title \"Erya yinyi\" 爾雅音義 \"Pronunciation and Meaning in the \"Erya\"\".\n\nThere is no regular English translation of \"Yiqiejing yinyi\", compare these renderings:\n\nAlternate \"Yiqiejing yinyi\" titles include the \"[Da Tang ] Zhongjing yinyi\" [大唐]眾經音義 \"[Great Tang] Pronunciation and Meaning in Every Sutra\", and to distinguish it from Hulin's version, the \"Xuanying yinyi\" 玄應音義 \"Xuanying's Pronunciation and Meaning\".\n\nA Daoist text adapted the \"Yiqiejing yinyi\" title. In 712, Emperor Xuanzong of Tang ordered a team of scholars to compile the catalog \"Yiqie Daojing yinyi\" 一切道經音義 \"Titles and Meanings of all the Daoist Canon\" (Needham, Ho, and Lu 1976: 114).\n\nThe lexicographer monk Xuanying 玄應 (a Dharma name meaning \"Profound Resonance\", fl. c. 645-656), who compiled the \"Yiqiejing yinyi\", was one of the ten Buddhist monks on Xuanzang’s translation committee (Guang 2012: 235). A postscript to Daoxuan's \"Xù gāosēng zhuàn\" 續高僧傳 \"Continued Biographies of Eminent Monks\" (tr. Yong and Peng 2008: 219) describes Xuanying as \"a monk in a temple in the capital. He has won wide respect for his accomplishments in philological studies. He is a master of the study of the phonetic system of Buddhist scriptures\". Both Xuanzang and Xuanying were monks at the Da Ci'en Monastery 大慈恩寺 (see Giant Wild Goose Pagoda) in Chang'an (Chien and Creamer 1986: 36).\n\nThe (664) \"Dà Táng nèidiǎn lù\" 大唐内典錄 \"Records of Internal Classics in the Tang Dynasty\" describes his interaction with Emperor Taizong of Tang,\nXuan Ying, a Master in the Temple of Da Ci'en Temple, was summoned several times by the Emperor to collect and sort Buddhist scriptures and phonetically notate and semantically interpret characters from them. He cited quotations from various classic works to support his interpretations. The book can help its users to readily understand the scriptures. It is a pity that his works stopped at that, without going further. (tr. Yong and Peng 2008: 219) \n\nBuddhism was first transmitted to China via the Silk Road during the Eastern Han dynasty (25-220 CE). Buddhist missionary monks from Central Asia, such as Kumārajīva (344-413), produced early Chinese translations of Buddhist sutras and texts.\n\nTranslators had difficulties rendering Buddhist terminology from Sanskrit, Pali, and Middle Indo-Aryan languages into written Chinese (Chien and Creamer 1986: 35). Because of the polysemous and sacred character of such Buddhist doctrinal concepts as \"bodhi\" and \"prajñā\", many Chinese translators preferred to transliterate rather than translate such crucial terms, so as not to limit their semantic range to a single Chinese meaning. Furthermore, the spiritual efficacy thought to be inherent in the pronunciations of Buddhist \"mantra\" spells and \"dhāraṇī\" codes compelled translators to preserve as closely as possible the original foreign-language pronunciation (Buswell and Lopez 2013: 1030).\n\nThe wide variety of methods, source texts, and exegetical strategies used by different Chinese translators of Buddhist texts in the Southern and Northern dynasties period (420-589) gave rise to a large number of neologisms and repurposed Chinese terms (Clart and Scott 2015: 125). For instance, the Standard Chinese translation of \"nirvana\" is \"nièpán\" < Middle Chinese (Baxter and Sagart 2014) \"ngetban\" 涅槃, but earlier transcriptions include \"nièpánnà\" < \"ngetbannop\" 涅槃那, and \"níwán\" < \"nejhwan\" 泥丸 (\"muddy pellet\", a term from Daoist internal alchemy). The Chinese language adopted many new words from Buddhism, such as \"yīnguǒ\" 因果 \"cause and effect; karma\" and \"Fútú\" 浮屠 \"Buddha\", and these were entered into both special dictionaries of Buddhism and general dictionaries (Yong and Peng 2008: 208).\n\nWith more and more Indian and Central Asian texts being translated into Chinese, the use of Sanskrit and Middle Indo-Aryan transcriptions and technical vocabulary increased, and became progressively more difficult to comprehend. Meanwhile, errors occurred in the copying and circulation of the scriptures, which the scholar of Buddhism Liu Yu 柳豫 describes: \nThe Buddhist scriptures are voluminous and the argumentations in them are profound. They are afflicted with errors and misspellings, and their phonetic notations and semantic interpretations are often rough and neglectful. Days and months are spent in studying and sorting them. There is some progress, but concerns are inevitable. Reflections on them often come to nothing. All the scholars of good will would be troubled by them. (tr. Yong and Peng 2008: 207)\n\nBy the 6th century, the glut of different Chinese character transcriptions used for the same Buddhist terms led to attempts to standardize the Chinese transcriptions of them, and to clarify the obscure characters and compounds used to translatie Buddhist texts (Buswell and Lopez 2013: 1030). This material was compiled in so-called \"yinyi\" 音義 \"pronunciation and meaning\" lexicons, specialized dictionaries that give phonetic and semantic information.\n\nA predecessor to \"yinyi\" lexicons was the Northern Qi (550-577) Buddhist monk Daohui's 道慧 \"Yiqiejing yin\" 一切經音 \"Pronunciation in the Complete Buddhist Canon\", which did not gloss meanings. While a few \"yinyi\" glossaries are for one specific scripture, such as the \"Miàofǎ liánhuá jīng yīnyì\" 妙法蓮華經音義 \"Pronunciation and Meaning in the \"Lotus Sutra\" by Kuiji (632-682) (Yong and Peng 2008: 219), more glossaries like the \"Yiqiejing yinyi\" are for the entire Buddhist canon. One was the (c. 940) \"Xinji zangjing yinyi suihanlu\" 新集蔵経音義随函録 \"Newly Compiled Record of Pronunciation and Meaning in the Buddhist Canon and Accompanying Materials\" compiled by the Later Jin dynasty monk Ke Hong 可洪. Another example was the (987) \"Xu yiqiejing yinyi\" 續一切経音義 \"Extended Pronunciation and Meaning in the Complete Buddhist Canon\" by the Liao dynasty monk Xilin希麟. This 10-chapter work, which followed Xuanying's dictionary format and style, had entries taken from 226 volumes of Buddhist scriptures. Each entry gave the phonetic notation, definition, and citations from dictionaries, rime dictionaries, histories, and other classic literature (Yong and Peng 2008: 220). In addition to their value in establishing the Chinese interpretation of Buddhist technical terms, these \"pronunciation and meaning\" glossaries also serve as important sources for studying the Chinese phonology of their times (Buswell and Lopez 2013: 1031).\n\nBesides the \"yinyi\" phonological and semantic glossaries of Chinese Buddhist terms, there were also collections of translated terms in the sutras, such as the \"Fānyì míngyì jí\" 翻譯名義集 \"Collection of Translated Buddhist Terms\" by Fayun 法雲 (467-529) and \"Fān fànyǔ\" 翻梵語 \"Translating Sanskrit\" by Bao Chang 寶唱. In a strict sense, neither the glossaries nor the collections can be considered Sanskrit-Chinese bilingual dictionaries (Yong and Peng 2008: 369).\n\nA significant breakthrough in the quality of translations occurred during the Tang dynasty (618-907) after Chinese Buddhist monks such as Xuanzang (596-664) and Yijing (635-713) made pilgrimages to India to study Buddhism and the Buddhist languages. Yijing allegedly compiled what might be the first Sanskrit-Chinese glossary, the \"Fanyu qianzi wen\" 梵語千字文 \"Sanskrit 1000-Character Text\" (Chien and Creamer 1986: 35). The body of this work is a 1000-character text composed of rhymed 4-character verses, and the glossary has 995 entries, each of which gives a transliterated Sanskrit headword, its Chinese phonetic equivalent, and then a single Chinese explanatory word. The characters used in the text form are limited to the defining vocabulary of the glossary, similar to the modern lexicographical method of the (1978) \"Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English\" (Yong and Peng 2008: 371).\n\nThe most renowned of all translator monks was Xuanzang, who started on a pilgrimage to India in 629 and returned to the Tang capital Chang'an in 645 with foreign missionaries and sacred Buddhist texts. Under Emperor Taizong's patronage, Xuanzang organized many learned monks, including Xuanying, and oversaw a translation bureau that resulted in 75 important Buddhist texts being made available to Chinese Buddhists (Malmqvist 2010: 158).\n\nXuanying compiled his 25-chapter dictionary during the late Zhenguan 貞觀 era (626-649). According to Daoxuan (596-667), Xuanying was dissatisfied with Daohui’s \"Yiqiejing yin\" so he compiled his own (Guang 2012: 235). He assembled 454 sutras from Mahayana, Śrāvakayāna, Vinaya, and Shastra traditions, collected and explained their difficult Chinese characters, probably as a primer for members of Xuanzang's translation team (Buswell and Lopez 2013: 1030). Xuanying arranged the texts in a series starting with the \"Avatamsaka Sutra\" (Chinese \"Huáyánjīng\" 華嚴經) and ending with the Abhidharma \"Nyayanusara Sutra\" (\"Shùnzhèng lǐlùn\" 順正理論) (Chien and Creamer 1986: 36).\n\nXuanying's scholarship utilized the unprecedented advances in philological studies that resulted from the Chinese interest in reading and translating Sanskrit. Two notable examples are the compilation of rime dictionaries arranged on the basis of syllabic rime, and the \"fanqie\" (lit. \"cut and turn\") method of indicating a character's pronunciation by using two other characters, the first having the same consonant as the given character and the second having the same vowel and rime (Guang 2012: 234).\n\nHuilin expanded Xuanying's 25-chapter lexicon and incorporated material from other authors, compiling it into his 100-chapter \"Huilin yinyi\" dictionary (Clart and Scott 2015: 125).\n\nThe \"Yiqiejing yinyi\" was transmitted in several different versions, and two are included in the standard Buddhist Canon \"Taishō Tripiṭaka\" (T 54, no. 2128A and B). Although the \"Yiqiejing yinyi\" was primarily compiled for the purpose of reading and studying Buddhist scriptures, it is also valuable for Chinese linguistic and other historical academic studies (Guang 2012: 234).\n\nThe \"Yiqiejing yinyi\" text comprises 25 chapters/volumes (\"juǎn\" 卷) in 450 sections/parts (\"bù\" 部). Xuanying's purpose in compiling it was to explain the \"hard words\" found in Chinese translations of 454 Buddhist sutras. He glossed the pronunciations of both Sanskrit-derived technical terms and ordinary Chinese characters, and explained their meanings (Chien and Creamer 1986: 36). The glosses on ordinary characters occupy about half of the book (Harbsmeier 1998: 78).\n\nThe British diplomat and scholar Thomas Watters (1840-1901) was first to describe Xuanying's dictionary in English.\nThe work is a glossary to the foreign, technical, and difficult words and phrases in the Buddhist canon. It gives the sounds and meanings of the Sanskrit proper names and terms of religion, and the different transcriptions which had been used. Important Chinese phrases are also explained and the pronunciation of characters given and illustrated. (1889: 53) \n\nCategorizing the groundbreaking \"Yiqiejing yinyi\" is difficult, and the lexicographers Heming Yong and Jing Peng (2008: 173, 171, 208, and 174) classify it as a defining dictionary, special-purpose dictionary, general dictionary for interpretations of Buddhist scriptures, and sound-meaning book (\"yinyi shu\" 音義書).\n\nFor the format and style of the \"Yiqiejing yinyi\", Xuanying followed the example of Lu Deming's (583) \"Jingdian Shiwen\" exegetical dictionary of the Confucian Thirteen Classics. The \"Yiqiejing yinyi\" preface quoted Lu regarding phonetic notation and definition (tr. Yong and Peng 2008: 184). Lu Deming said a dictionary entry should give the pronunciation of a character first so as to \"help the user to compare usage\", \"should add phonetic notation, define the character, trace its origin, and analyse and explain the difficult points or confusions\", and should take citations from both ancient and contemporary literature, making them \"plain but not crude, abundant but not chaotic\".\n\nThe basic structure of each \"Yiqiejing yinyi\" definition is to give: any variant renderings of the headword, the pronunciation of rare or difficult characters, Chinese translation and comments, and, optionally, the corrected transcription of the Sanskrit (Buswell and Lopez 2013: 1030). The entry for \"jiǎokuài\" < Middle Chinese \"kæwX-kwajH\" 狡獪 \"crafty; joke; play\" exemplifies Xuanying's detailed glosses.\n狡獪 \"jiǎo[kuài]\" < \"kæwX-kwajH\" (~ \"kwæjH\"): The \"Tōngsúwén\" 通俗文 says: small children playing is called 狡獪 \"kæwX-kwajH\" [or \"kæwX-kwæjH\"]. Nowadays, within the pass [\"guānzhōng\" 關中, i.e. in the central plain of Shānxī] it is pronounced 狡刮 \"kæwX-kwæt\"; this is an error. (tr. Baxter 1992: 319) \nFu Qian's 服虔 (late 2nd century) \"Tongsuwen\" 通俗文 \"Popular Words\" was the first Chinese dictionary of common words (Yong and Peng 2008: 275). The Guanzhong region is in the lower valley of the Wei River.\n\nPronunciation glosses are indicated with \"fanqie\", using Xuanzang's phonologically sophisticated \"fanqie\" transcription system (Buswell and Lopez 2013: 1030). While Xuanying does not mention the (601) \"Qieyun\" rime dictionary, which uses different \"fanqie\" character \"spellings\" from the \"Yiqiejing yinyi\", the similarity between the phonological systems of the two works indicates that they were based on the same Chinese dialect (Malmqvist 2010: 159).\n\nXuanying's \"Yiqiejing yinyi\" made more detailed and specific semantic explanations than earlier dictionaries, \"no judgements would be given before rigorous textual research had been carried out and meticulous comments added\" (Yong and Peng 2008: 170). For elucidating word meanings, Xuanying quotes from more than 112 works in Chinese literature (Guang 2012: 235). They include Confucian Classics and their commentaries, as well as early dictionaries like the \"Cangjiepian\", \"Shuowen Jiezi\", \"Ziyuan\", \"Zilin\", and \"Shenglei\". Since many quotes come from lost works, Qing dynasty (1644-1911) scholars used the \"Yiqiejing yinyi\" to partially reconstruct them.\n\nFor the collation of \"Yiqiejing yinyi\" entries, Xuanying followed Lu Deming's \"Jingdian shiwen\" arrangement by provenance in individual scripture. At the beginning of each chapter is a listing of the sutras from which the headwords are selected, and the headwords are presented and numbered following the sequence of the sutra chapters (Chien and Creamer 1986: 36). In order to find a word, a user cannot search by either character or pronunciation (as in most Chinese dictionaries), but must first find the scripture in which the word occurs. This method of collation by the order in which headwords appeared in the sutra text is comparable to the (c. 800) \"Leiden Glossary\" (Yong and Peng 2008: 370).\n\nThe \"Yiqiejing yinyi\" is not strictly a bilingual dictionary in the modern meaning of containing headwords in Sanskrit or other Buddhist-language scripts and Chinese translation equivalents. It is essentially a monolingual dictionary of Chinese Buddhist terms because all the headwords are Chinese character transcriptions of Sanskrit loanwords and the definitions are in Chinese characters. According to Yong and Peng (2008: 371), early \"yinyi\" glossaries and dictionaries bear some basic features of modern bilingual dictionaries, but it is more reasonable to consider them as the \"most distant forerunners of modern Chinese bilingual dictionaries\". In any case, the \"Yiqiejing yinyi\", which compiled non-Chinese loanwords and defined them in Chinese, is the \"first Buddhist dictionary of its kind and the first, albeit crude, attempt at bilingual lexicography\" (Chien and Creamer 1986: 36). Furthermore, it preceded Horace Hayman Wilson's (1819) \"Sanskrit-English Dictionary\" by more than one thousand years (Yong and Peng 2008: 370).\n\nThere are flaws in the \"Yiqiejing yinyi\". Most notably, it has an especially user-unfriendly lookup for words arranged according their occurrence in sutras. Watters (1889: 53) said, \"Though native scholars quote this treatise freely it is not easy to consult, owing to the absence of an index and the want of a good arrangement.\" There are also cryptic or incomplete definitions, unnecessary repetitions, and imbalanced treatment of different characters in notation and interpretation (Yong and Peng 2008: 219).\n\nDespite its defects, scholars highly regard Xuanying's \"Yiqiejing yinyi\". It is not only of interest for early Buddhist terminology, but also for the study of historical Chinese phonology and early written vernacular Chinese, which had a great influence on Buddhist writings (see \"bianwen\"). Yong and Peng (2008: 222) describe the \"Yiqiejing yinyi\" as \"extremely useful for studying Buddhist scriptures\", \"valuable to exegetic studies of ancient characters\", and treasured for having retained what had been lost in other sources. Xing Guang (2012: 235) calls it a \"valuable work for modern scholars\" owing to the high quality of Xuanying's editing and scholarship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "334309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=334309", "title": "Yosemite Decimal System", "text": "Yosemite Decimal System\n\nThe Yosemite Decimal System (YDS) is a three-part system used for rating the difficulty of walks, hikes, and climbs, primarily used by mountaineers in the United States and Canada. It was first devised by members of the Sierra Club in Southern California in the 1950s as a refinement of earlier systems, particularly those developed in Yosemite Valley, and quickly spread throughout North America.\n\nThe class 5 portion of the class scale is primarily a rock climbing classification system, while classes 1–2 are used mainly in hiking and trail running. Class 3 describes easy and moderate climbing (i.e. scrambling), with varying amounts of exposure. Class 4 is an \"in-between\" rating that describes a very exposed scramble, corresponding roughly to the IFAS classification of PD+. Climbers, specifically those involved with technical class 5 climbing, often abbreviate \"class 3\" and \"class 4\" to \"3rd\" and \"4th\" respectively.\n\nOriginally the system was a single-part classification system. \"Grade\" and \"protection\" categories were later added to the system. The new categories do not apply to every climb and usage varies widely. \"Grade\" describes the amount of time needed to complete a climb, and \"protection\" describes the availability and quality of places on a climbing route where a climber may utilize climbing protection.\n\nClass 5 is subdivided into parts, currently 5.0 to 5.15. Ratings above 5.9 are further subdivided, for example, 5.10b or 5.15c. When writing out a full YDS rating, grade is added after classification, and is followed by protection, so a typical YDS route description would be something like \"5.10b VI R\". Often the grade is omitted, and just the classification and protection ratings used. If the amount of protection available on a route is not concerning, then the protection rating is omitted as well.\n\nWhile primarily considered a free climbing system, an aid-climbing designation is sometimes appended, numbered A0 to A5. For example, The North America Wall on El Capitan would be classed \"5.8 VI A5\" using this mixed system.\n\nThe system was initially developed as the \"Sierra Club grading system\" in the 1930s to classify hikes and climbs in the Sierra Nevada. Previously, these were described relative to others. For example, Z is harder than X but easier than Y. This primitive system was difficult to learn for those who did not yet have experience of X or Y. The club adapted a numerical system of classification that was easy to learn and which seemed practical in its application.\n\nThe system was later refined into its modern, well-known form by climbers at Tahquitz Peak in Southern California. The intention was that the classes would be subdivided decimally, so that a class 4.5 route would be a climb halfway between 4 and 5. Class 5 was subdivided in the 1950s. Initially it was based on ten climbs in the region, and ranged from the \"Trough\" at 5.0, a relatively modest technical climb, to the \"Open Book\" at 5.9, considered at the time the most difficult unaided climb humanly possible. This system was developed by members of the Rock Climbing Section of the Angeles Chapter of the Sierra Club.\n\nThe system now divides all hikes and climbs into five classes:\nThe exact definition of the classes is somewhat controversial,\nand updated versions of these classifications have been proposed.\n\n\nGuidebooks sometimes append some number of stars to the YDS rating, to indicate a climb's overall \"quality\" (how \"fun\" or \"worthwhile\" the climb is). This \"star ranking\" is unrelated to the YDS system, and varies from guidebook to guidebook. Information about the difficulty of a summit block is sometimes added. For example, a rating of 3s4 means that most of the climb is class 3 but the summit block is class 4.\n\nIncreased standards and improved equipment meant that class 5.9 climbs in the 1960s became only of moderate difficulty for some. Rather than reclassify all climbs each time standards improved, additional classes were added. It soon became apparent that an open-ended system was needed and further classes of 5.11, 5.12, etc. were added. It was later determined that the 5.11 climb was much harder than 5.10, leaving many climbs of varying difficulty bunched up at 5.10. To solve this, the scale has been further subdivided above the 5.9 mark with suffixes from \"a\" to \"d\". , only one climb is considered to have a difficulty of 5.15d: \"Silence\", first climbed by Adam Ondra in September, 2017.\n\nClassification of climbs between indoor gym, sport and traditional climbing can also vary quite a bit depending on location and history.\n\nA formula that combines average speed, class of climb, distance and elevation gain for use in planning has yet to be published.\n\nThe YDS grade system involves an optional Roman numeral grade that indicates the length and seriousness of the route. The grades are:\n\nThe Grade is more relevant to mountaineering and big wall climbing, and often not stated when talking about short rock climbs.\n\nAn optional protection rating indicates the spacing and quality of the protection available for a well-equipped and skilled leader. The letter codes chosen were, at the time, identical to the American system for rating the content of movies:\n\nThe G and PG ratings are often left out as they are typical of normal, everyday climbing. R and X climbs are usually noted as a caution to the unwary leader. Application of protection ratings varies widely from area to area and from guidebook to guidebook.\n\nThere are other systems used throughout the world. They are covered in the article about Grade (climbing).\n\n"}
