{"id": "35527699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35527699", "title": "2003 Quetta mosque bombing", "text": "2003 Quetta mosque bombing\n\nOn July 4, 2003 44 Hazara Shias were killed and at least 65 others were injured when the mosque was attacked during the Friday prayer in Quetta, Pakistan. On Friday July 4, 2003 when hundreds of worshipers were offering Friday prayer, three armed men enter the \"Asna Ashari Hazara Imambargah\" and started shooting, threw hand grenades and one suicide bomber blew himself which left more than 50 dead and tens of others injured. It was second major sectarian attack on Hazara community in Quetta after the massacre of Police cadets. It was the start of the Series of Hazara Killings in Quetta.\n\nOn Friday July 4, 2003 hundreds of worshipers were practicing Friday prayer in Asna Ashri Hazara Imambargah Kalan (mosque). five men armed with automatic weapons enter the mosque start shooting for ten continuous minutes and tried to throw grenade but it blew in his hand, people disarmed one of them and killed a third one. Two of them ran away from the roof. This incident left more 65 dead and tens of others injured.\n\nLashkar-e-Jhangvi (LeJ), a banned terrorist group, was responsible for the attack on the mosque. After investigations the Intelligence agencies found a video compact disc in which two people are shown who claimed their people attacked on the mosque and they were going to meet them in the paradise.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "509995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=509995", "title": "Abstract and concrete", "text": "Abstract and concrete\n\nAbstract and concrete are classifications that denote whether the object that a term describes has physical referents. Abstract objects have no physical referents, whereas concrete objects do. They are most commonly used in philosophy and semantics. Abstract objects are sometimes called abstracta (sing. abstractum) and concrete objects are sometimes called \"concreta\" (sing. \"concretum\"). An abstract object is an object that does not exist at any particular time or place, but rather exists as a type of thing—i.e., an idea, or abstraction. The term \"abstract object\" is said to have been coined by Willard Van Orman Quine. The study of abstract objects is called abstract object theory.\n\nThe type–token distinction identifies physical objects that are tokens of a particular type of thing. The \"type\" of which it is a part is in itself an abstract object. The abstract-concrete distinction is often introduced and initially understood in terms of paradigmatic examples of objects of each kind:\n\nAbstract objects have often garnered the interest of philosophers because they raise problems for popular theories. In ontology, abstract objects are considered problematic for physicalism and some forms of naturalism. Historically, the most important ontological dispute about abstract objects has been the problem of universals. In epistemology, abstract objects are considered problematic for empiricism. If abstracta lack causal powers or spatial location, how do we know about them? It is hard to say how they can affect our sensory experiences, and yet we seem to agree on a wide range of claims about them. \n\nSome, such as Edward Zalta and arguably, Plato in his Theory of Forms, have held that abstract objects constitute the defining subject matter of metaphysics or philosophical inquiry more broadly. To the extent that philosophy is independent of empirical research, and to the extent that empirical questions do not inform questions about abstracta, philosophy would seem especially suited to answering these latter questions. \n\nIn modern philosophy, the distinction between abstract and concrete was explored by Immanuel Kant and G. W. F. Hegel.\n\nGottlob Frege said that abstract objects, such as numbers, were members of a third realm, different from the external world or from internal consciousness. \n\nAnother popular proposal for drawing the abstract-concrete distinction contends that an object is abstract if it lacks any causal powers. A causal power has the ability to affect something causally. Thus, the empty set is abstract because it cannot act on other objects. One problem for this view is that it is not clear exactly what it is to have a causal power. For a more detailed exploration of the abstract-concrete distinction, follow the link below to the \"Stanford Encyclopedia\" article.\n\nJean Piaget uses the terms \"concrete\" and \"formal\" to describe the different types of learning. Concrete thinking involves facts and descriptions about everyday, tangible objects, while abstract (formal operational) thinking involves a mental process.\nRecently, there has been some philosophical interest in the development of a third category of objects known as the quasi-abstract. Quasi-abstract objects have drawn particular attention in the area of social ontology and documentality. Some argue that the over-adherence to the platonist duality of the concrete and the abstract has led to a large category of social objects having been overlooked or rejected as nonexisting because they exhibit characteristics that the traditional duality between concrete and abstract regards as incompatible. Specially, the ability to have temporal location, but not spatial location, and have causal agency (if only by acting through representatives). These characteristics are exhibited by a number of social objects, including states of the international legal system.\n\n"}
{"id": "23767901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23767901", "title": "Attitude (art)", "text": "Attitude (art)\n\nAttitude as a term of fine art refers to the posture or gesture given to a figure by a painter or sculptor. It applies to the body and not to a mental state, but the arrangement of the body is presumed to serve a communicative or expressive purpose. An example of a conventional attitude in art is proskynesis to indicate submissive respect toward God, emperors, clerics of high status, and religious icons; in Byzantine art, it is particularly characteristic in depictions of the emperor paying homage to Christ. In 20th- and 21st-century art history, \"attitude\" is used most often to label one of these conventional postures; another example is the orans pose.\n\n\"Attitude\" was arguably more important as an aesthetic term in the 19th century, when it was defined in one art-related dictionary as\n\nthe posture or disposition of the limbs and members of a figure, by which we discover the action in which it is engaged, and the very sentiment supposed to be in the mind of the person represented. It comprehends all the motions of the body, and requires a perfect knowledge of ponderation, and whatever refers to the centre of gravity; but whatsoever attitude be given to any figure, that attitude must show the beautiful parts, as much as the subject will permit, let the subject be what it will. It must, besides, have such a turn as, without departing from probability, or from the character of the figure, may diffuse a beauty over the action. It is allowed that the choice of fine attitudes constitutes the greatest part of the beauties of grouping.\n"}
{"id": "31437122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31437122", "title": "Bullying in information technology", "text": "Bullying in information technology\n\nAs a result of advances in technology, information technology has become a highly important economic sector. Although it is relatively new, this industry still experiences many of the workplace culture problems of older industries. Bullying is common in IT, leading to high sickness rates, low morale, poor productivity and high staff turnover. Deadline-driven project work and stressed-out managers take their toll on IT professionals.\n\nBullying in IT is most commonly downwards hierarchical (such as manager to employee) but can also be horizontal (such as employee to employee) or upwards hierarchical (such as employee to manager).\n\nIn 2002, a survey of UK staff by Mercer Human Resource Consulting found that 21% of respondents in the IT industry have been bullied once or more in the past year. Seven per cent claimed to have suffered chronic bullying.\n\nIn 2005, the Chartered Management Institute conducted a survey of IT managers finding that more than three out of 10 managers have been bullied during the last three years.\n\nIn 2008, the Chartered Management Institute conducted a survey of IT managers finding that 61% witnessed bullying between peers and 26% had witnessed subordinates bullying their managers.\n\nIn 2008, a survey carried out by trade union Unite of IT professionals showed 65% believed they had been bullied at work, and 22% had taken time off work because of stress caused by bullying.\n\nIn 2014 IDG Connect conducted research which showed that 75% of 650 IT professionals surveyed claimed to have been bullied at work, while 85% said they had seen others bullied. This report formed part of an extensive series of articles conducted by the editor.\n\nThe press release stated: “These results in no way prove that things are worse in IT than elsewhere and are weighted by the self-selecting nature of the study. However, via a blend of new statistics, detailed feedback from over 400 in-depth testimonials, along with insight from a range of industry experts, this report paints a pretty comprehensive picture of a seemingly endemic problem.” \n\nImpacts of a bullying culture can include:\n\nVictims reported:\n\nComments from victims and researchers include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3288598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3288598", "title": "Celestial Emporium of Benevolent Knowledge", "text": "Celestial Emporium of Benevolent Knowledge\n\nCelestial Emporium of Benevolent Knowledge () is a fictitious taxonomy of animals described by the writer Jorge Luis Borges in his 1942 essay \"The Analytical Language of John Wilkins\" (\"El idioma analítico de John Wilkins\").\n\nWilkins, a 17th-century philosopher, had proposed a universal language based on a classification system that would encode a description of the thing a word describes into the word itself—for example, \"Zi\" identifies the genus \"beasts\"; \"Zit\" denotes the \"difference\" \"rapacious beasts of the dog kind\"; and finally \"Zitα\" specifies \"dog\".\n\nIn response to this proposal and in order to illustrate the arbitrariness and cultural specificity of any attempt to categorize the world, Borges describes this example of an alternate taxonomy, supposedly taken from an ancient Chinese encyclopædia entitled \"Celestial Emporium of Benevolent Knowledge\".\n\nThe list divides all animals into 14 categories:\n\nBorges claims that the list was discovered in its Chinese source by the translator Franz Kuhn.\n\nThis list has stirred considerable philosophical and literary commentary.\n\nMichel Foucault begins his preface to \"The Order of Things,\"\n\nFoucault then quotes Borges' passage.\n\nLouis Sass has suggested, in response to Borges' list, that such \"Chinese\" thinking shows signs of typical schizophrenic thought processes. By contrast, the linguist George Lakoff has pointed out that while Borges' list is not possibly a human categorization, many categorizations of objects found in nonwestern cultures have a similar feeling to Westerners.\n\nKeith Windschuttle, an Australian historian, cited alleged acceptance of the authenticity of the list by many academics as a sign of the degeneration of the Western academy and a terminal lack of humor.\n\nScholars have questioned whether the attribution of the list to Franz Kuhn is genuine. While Kuhn did indeed translate Chinese literature, Borges' works often feature many learned pseudo-references resulting in a mix of facts and fiction. To date, no evidence for the existence of such a list has been found.\n\nBorges himself questions the veracity of the quote in his essay, referring to \"the unknown (or false) Chinese encyclopaedia writer\".\n\n"}
{"id": "39164875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39164875", "title": "Compulsory sterilisation in Sweden", "text": "Compulsory sterilisation in Sweden\n\nCompulsory sterilisation in Sweden were sterilisations which were carried out in Sweden, without a valid consent of the subject, during the years 1906–1975 on eugenic, medical and social grounds. Between 1972 and 2012, sterilisation was also a condition for sex change.\n\nThe general rule between 1941 and 1976 was that sterilisation was illegal, but there were three grounds on which sterilisation could be permitted:\n\n\nIt was never legal to physically restrain a person.\n\nFrom 1944, the number of eugenic sterilisations under the 1941 legal provisions gradually decreased.\n\nThe number of eugenic sterilisations peaked in the 1940s; from 1944, the number of sterilisations under the 1941 legal provisions gradually decreased.\n\nIn 1997, on behalf of the Swedish government, the ethnologists Mikael Eivergård and Lars-Eric Jönsson made an attempt at estimating what percentage of sterilisations were coerced. They found that a quarter of the applications were made under circumstances similar to coercion such as a condition for release from an institution and that another 9 percent were signed under pressure. In half of the cases they found no sign of coercion or pressure, but signs of the applicants own initiative. Tydén uses these percentages to make an estimate of the number of operations under coercion. He found that 15,000 were made as a condition for release and that another 5500 to 6000 were made under other kinds of pressure, whereas 30,000 were voluntary and on the applicants' own initiative.\nFrom the 2000s, the Swedish state paid out damages to victims who filed for compensation.\n\nUntil 2012, sterilisation was mandatory before sex change. This last mandatory sterilisation has been criticised by several political parties in Sweden and since 2011 the Parliament of Sweden was expected to change the law but ran into opposition from the Christian Democrat party. After efforts to overturn the law failed in parliament, the Stockholm Administrative Court of Appeal overturned the law on 19 December 2012, declaring it unconstitutional after the law was challenged by an unidentified plaintiff.\n\n"}
{"id": "14596160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14596160", "title": "Continuous cooling transformation", "text": "Continuous cooling transformation\n\nA continuous cooling transformation (CCT) phase diagram is often used when heat treating steel. These diagrams are used to represent which types of phase changes will occur in a material as it is cooled at different rates. These diagrams are often more useful than time-temperature-transformation diagrams because it is more convenient to cool materials at a certain rate than to cool quickly and hold at a certain temperature.\n\nThere are two types of continuous cooling diagrams drawn for practical purposes\n\n"}
{"id": "10877079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10877079", "title": "Criegee intermediate", "text": "Criegee intermediate\n\nA Criegee intermediate (also called a Criegee zwitterion or Criegee biradical) is a carbonyl oxide with two charge centres. These molecules help to break down sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide in the atmosphere, and may help offset global warming.\n\nThe formation of this sort of structure was first postulated in the 1950s by Rudolf Criegee, for whom it is named, but it was not until 2013 that direct detection of such chemicals was reported. Infrared spectroscopy suggests the electronic structure is a zwitterion rather than a biradical as some had proposed.\n\n"}
{"id": "10791397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10791397", "title": "Desert (philosophy)", "text": "Desert (philosophy)\n\nDesert () in philosophy is the condition of being deserving of something, whether good or bad.\n\nThe word is related to justice, revenge, blame, punishment and many topics central to moral philosophy, also \"moral desert\". In the English language, the word \"desert\" with this meaning tends to be a rather uncommon word colloquially; it is almost exclusively used in the phrase \"just deserts\" (e.g. \"Although she was not at first arrested for the crime, she later on received her just deserts.\"). The phrase \"just desserts\" is a pun on this original term and is often confused as the correct spelling of the word.\n\nIn ordinary usage, to deserve is to earn or merit a reward; in philosophy, the distinction is drawn in the term desert to include the case that which one receives as one's just deserts may well be unwelcome, or a reward. For example, if one scratches off a winning lottery ticket, one may be \"entitled\" to the money, but one does not necessarily \"deserve\" it in the same way one would deserve $5 for mowing a lawn, or a round of applause for performing a solo. While \"moral desert\" refers to any type of outcome that morally 'fits' or reflects one's actions, the punned term \"moral desserts\" refers specifically to a reward, as one might receive a 'reward' of dessert for eating their meal.\n\n\"Desert claims\" may be generally expressed as: \"Thing X deserves Y in virtue of Z.\" For example, \"I (X) deserve a good grade on my test (Y) because I studied hard (Z)\"; \"Cincinnati (X) deserves to be praised (Y) because it is a pretty city (Z).\" Some authors have added a further criterion, qualifying Z. That is, Agent X deserves Y in virtue of Z \"if X is responsible for Z (or, alternatively, if X is also deserving of Z)\". Considering this stipulation, one does not deserve respect simply because one is a human being, because one is not responsible for being a human being (Z). Arguments such as this are contentious as they suggest an untenability of intrinsic desert claims—that is, claims wherein Z means simply to be X. Less controversially, if one (X) uses steroids to win in a footrace, one is said not to deserve to win (Y) because one is not responsible for, and so does not deserve, one's enhanced physical abilities (Z).\n\nOne of the most controversial rejections of the concept of desert was made by the political philosopher John Rawls. Rawls, writing in the mid to late twentieth century, claimed that a person cannot claim credit for being born with greater natural endowments (such as superior intelligence or athletic abilities), as it is purely the result of the 'natural lottery'. Therefore, that person does not morally deserve the fruits of his or her talents and/or efforts, such as a good job or a high salary. However, Rawls was careful to explain that, even though he dismissed the concept of moral Desert, people can still legitimately expect to receive the benefits of their efforts and/or talents. The distinction here lies between Desert and, in \nRawls' own words, 'Legitimate Expectations'.\n\nRawls' remarks about natural endowments provoked an often-referred response by Robert Nozick. Nozick claimed that to treat peoples' natural talents as collective assets is to contradict the very basis of the deontological liberalism Rawls wishes to defend, i.e. respect for the individual and the distinction between persons. Nozick argued that Rawls' suggestion that not only natural talents but also virtues of character are undeserved aspects of ourselves for which we cannot take credit, \"can succeed in blocking the introduction of a person's autonomous choices and actions (and their results) only by attributing everything noteworthy about the person completely to certain sorts of 'external' factors. So denigrating a person's autonomy and prime responsibility for his actions is a risky line to take for a theory that otherwise wishes to buttress the dignity and self-respect of autonomous beings.\"\nNozick's critique has been interpreted in different ways. The conventional understanding of it is as a libertarian assessment of procedural justice, which maintains that while it might be true that people's actions are wholly or partly determined by factors that are morally arbitrary, this is irrelevant to assignments of distributive shares. Individuals are self-owners with inviolable rights in their bodies and talents, and they have the freedom to take advantage of these regardless of whether the self-owned properties are theirs for reasons that are morally arbitrary or not.\n\nOthers have suggested that Rawls has entirely mistaken the very logic of desert. If justice is getting what one is due, then the basis of desert must ultimately be undeserved. However, desert is a relational concept that expresses a relationship between a deserved and a basis of desert. It simply destroys the character of desert to demand, as Rawls does, that the basis of desert be itself deserved. For example, if we say a man deserves some primary good because of some quality or action \"Y\", we can always ask, as Rawls does, \"but does he deserve 'Y'?\" and so on. We then either have an infinite regress of bases of desert or arrive at some basis, some beginning point, which the individual cannot claim to have deserved or to be responsible for, but only to have or have been given by nature. After all, no human being exists causa sui; even to reduce the basis of claims to the very narrow one of life itself reveals Rawls' difficulty: surely no one can \"deserve\" or \"claim credit for\" their own existence.\n\nTo demand, as Rawls does, that no just claim rest on an undeserved base simply means that we must cease speaking about justice, for on the basis of that demand there can never be any just claims - not even for equality. Rawls' analysis of justice rests on a notion of desert which violates the concept of desert and therefore does not provide a more precise notion of the bases of desert, but rather dissolves entirely the concept of desert and with it justice. The many debates over justice in political life and in philosophy concern the actual substantive question of what are the proper bases of desert. That is, underlying every conception of justice must be a claim of right, a positive claim of desert. The great failing of Rawls' argument is that he provides no substantive basis for a claim right or desert; but this failing is, paradoxically, also the source of the great appeal or excitement about Rawls' theory. His approach seems to avoid the difficulties of the traditional debates and the value questions they necessarily raise and yet seems to enable him to discuss normative questions such as justice.\n\nAnother, more unconventional interpretation of Nozick's critique is proposed by Jean Hampton. She points out that there seems to be a subterranean assumption in Nozick's rejection of Rawls' account of natural endowments as collective assets. This assumption is the idea that the choices individuals make regarding how they will use their labor and their property are ones for which they should be held responsible. People who do not work hard and invest imprudently should be held responsible for those choices and not receive assistance from an egalitarian welfare state. If they do work hard and invest well however, they should also be held responsible for those choices and allowed to reap the benefits from their strivings. Hampton asks the question \"whether the ground of Nozick's conception of absolute rights is not only a conception of liberty but also a conception of moral responsibility that is […] closely associated to our notion of liberty.\"\n\nThere are other political philosophers who endorse the position Hampton outlines. Their main observation is that sometimes people who are badly off might be so because of their own irresponsible conduct, and the charge is that theories favoring policies of redistribution of wealth from the rich to the poor ignore this crucial point, i.e. that people might be unequally deserving because of their actions.\n\nSometimes the claim is that the redistributive systems often favored by egalitarian political theorists might have disastrous consequences in that they promote sloth and allow free riding on the productive by the lazy. These arguments are \"instrumental\" in their appeal to undeservingness. They refer to the allegedly bad consequences of a redistributive social system and do not necessarily involve any reference to the moral worthiness of those who make greater efforts, wiser investments, and so on.\n\nAt other times however, the argument invokes a moral ideal holding desert valuable for its own sake. On this view, helping the undeserving and failing to help the deserving is deemed \"intrinsically\" unfair regardless of further consequences. For example, the charge against Rawls is that people actually might deserve the gains flowing from their natural endowments, or at least those they achieve by striving conscientiously.\n\n"}
{"id": "3948207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3948207", "title": "Duty of confidentiality", "text": "Duty of confidentiality\n\nIn common law jurisdictions, the duty of confidentiality obliges solicitors (or attorneys) to respect the confidentiality of their clients' affairs. Information that solicitors obtain about their clients' affairs may be confidential, and must not be used for the benefit of persons not authorized by the client. Confidentiality is a prerequisite for legal professional privilege to hold.\n\nThe lawyer-client relationship has historically been characterised as one of confidence. This duty also constitutes part of the broader foundation for lawyer's fiduciary duties to their clients.\n\nThe maintenance of full and frank disclosure between lawyers and their clients is the main justification for the duty of confidentiality. The basis for this rationale is utilitarianism, in that it works to promote the work of solicitors, who are officers of the court. It allows clients to freely discuss intimate details without fear that such information could be subsequently disclosed to the general public. In turn, public confidence in lawyers and the legal system is maintained and promoted. Further, the duty of confidentiality is a constant reminder to lawyers of the loyalty they owe to their clients.\n\nAnother rationale is to protect the human dignity of the client.\n\nIn criminal cases, confidentiality is also justified to prevent the use of tricked confessions or admissions.\n\nThe duty is sourced from a combination of contract law and equity arising from the distinctive relationship between lawyer and client. The solicitor or attorney is an agent of the client under the law of agency. In contract, the duty arises from terms contained in the retainer agreement. Complementarily, equity prohibits unauthorised use or disclosure of confidential information. In most jurisdictions, the duty is codified in the terms of legal professional rules, such as the Model Code of Professional Responsibility.\n\nAlthough the duty of confidentiality and fiduciary duties have common origins, they cannot be equated as not all fiduciary duties attract duties of confidentiality and vice versa.\n\nAs the lawyer-client duty of confidentiality is primarily sourced in contract law, the wording of implied terms in the retainer agreement determines its scope of operation. Despite its importance, there have been few judicial attempts to resolve the extent of the implied term.\n\nIn equity, protection is attached to information that is capable of meeting the test of confidentiality - whether the information was already public knowledge and whether its communication was for a \"limited purpose\". While this test may indicate a more limited scope of confidentiality under equity, by requiring information to be deemed confidential before falling under the scope, on another level equity may secure a broader temporal protection for confidential information. The duty under contract expires on termination of the legal retainer, whereas the duty under equity remains intact until the information is no longer confidential, which may occur long after the expiration of the contractual retainer.\n\nLegal professional rules have tended to adopt the broad view of the scope of duty recognised in contract law. The obligation to retain information in confidence, according to the professional rules in Australian jurisdictions is premised on its connection with the legal retainer rather than the source of the information. Hence, the professional rules seem to imply that information gained in connection with the legal retainer is deemed confidential. However, though the rules emphasise the importance of the duty of confidentiality, this is not a hard rule. Not all information connected with the retainer meets the legal test of confidentiality. The duty of confidence applies to \"any information, which is confidential to a client and acquired by [a] practitioner or [a] practitioner's firm during the client's engagement.\" For barristers, it is \"confidential information obtained by [a] barrister concerning any person.\"\n\nThough the duty of confidentiality shares a common origin, goals, and similarities with legal professional privilege, they are distinct in at least three ways. Firstly, privilege is not dependent on a contractual, equitable or professional duty to clients. Rather, it is based upon arguments of public policy. Secondly, communications protected by confidentiality are more numerous than those protected by privilege. Privileged communications are a subset of confidential communication. Nonetheless, loss of privilege does not necessarily automatically destroy the duty to confidentiality if it has arisen independently of the privilege. Finally, privileged information is protected from compulsory disclosure, unless abrogated by statute or waived. Non-privileged confidential information on the other hand must be disclosed to judicial, statutory, or other legal compulsion. In particular, the public interest in discovering the truth trumps private duties to respect confidence.\n\nThough the duty to confidentiality is often expressed in absolute terms in professional rules, there are circumstances where the duty can be breached. The breach of the duty in certain contexts is justified through the balancing of the often competing interests of the client and proper administration of justice\n\nAs lawyer-client confidentiality exists for the benefit of the client, the confidence is the client's to waive or modify. Hence, the lawyer can reveal confidential information to third parties where the client allows such an action. However, consent to allow the disclosure of confidential information does not entitle the lawyer to disclose or use the information for other purposes than those specified by the client.\n\nThe authorization does not necessarily have to be explicit. It can be inferred from the terms or nature of the retainer agreement. The idea that all information imparted within a retainer is confidential is impracticable. Often, much of that information is communicated so that it can be disclosed to dispose of a matter, claim, or legal issue. Hence, where information is incidental to the conduct of a retainer, client authorisation can be generally taken as given. Nonetheless, where there is uncertainty, express authority should be sought from the client.\n\nWhere expressly provided for in statute, lawyers must comply with any parliamentary requirement necessitating breach of the duty to confidentiality. Lord Denning in \"Parry-Jones v Law Society\" said at 6-7:\n\nStatutory abrogation of the duty is limited in scope and purpose however. Requirements are never blanket decrees for the revelation of confidential information. Rather they are based on upholding the public interest, where such interests override client interests in maintaining confidentiality.\n\nLawyers may disclose confidential information relating to the retainer where they are reasonably seeking to collect payment for services rendered. This is justified on policy grounds. If lawyers were unable to disclose such information, many would undertake legal work only where payment is made in advance. This would arguably adversely affect the public's access to justice.\n\nLawyers may also breach the duty where they are defending themselves against disciplinary or legal proceedings. A client who initiates proceedings against a lawyer effectively waives rights to confidentiality. This is justified on grounds of procedural fairness - a lawyer unable to reveal information relating to the retainer would be unable to defend themselves against such actions.\n\nClearly, information that is not confidential does not fall under the duty of confidentiality. Disclosure of information that is already in the public domain does not breach the duty. Further, information that was not in the public knowledge at the time of the retainer agreement, is not subject to the duty if it subsequently enters the public domain. The purpose served by maintaining the confidence - the protection of the client - is arguably extinguished.\n\nNonetheless, the lawyer still owes a duty of loyalty, and clients may feel betrayed if such information is disclosed, even if it becomes public knowledge. Though there are no legal ramifications for disclosure, discretion on part of the lawyer may be in the long term interests of maintaining the propriety of the legal profession.\n\nAnother case is for the probate of a last will and testament. Previously confidential communications between the lawyer and testator are no longer secret for the purpose of proving the Will is the intent of the now deceased decedent. In many instances, the will, codicil, or other parts of the estate plan require explanation or interpretation through other proof (extrinsic evidence), such as the attorney's file notes or correspondence from the client.\n\nIn certain cases, the client may desire or consent to revelation of personal or family secrets only after his or her death; for example, the Will may leave a legacy to a paramour or a natural child.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "189018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=189018", "title": "Elbow Room (book)", "text": "Elbow Room (book)\n\nElbow Room: The Varieties of Free Will Worth Wanting is a 1984 book by the American philosopher Daniel Dennett, in which Dennett discusses the philosophical issues of free will and determinism.\n\nIn 1983, Dennett delivered the John Locke Lectures at Oxford on the topic of free will. In 1984, these ideas were published in the book \"Elbow Room: The Varieties of Free Will Worth Wanting\". In this book Daniel Dennett explored what it means for people to have free will. The title, \"Elbow Room\", is a reference to the question: are we deterministic machines with no real freedom of action or do we in fact have some elbow room, some real choice in our behavior?\n\nA major task taken on by Dennett in \"Elbow Room\" is to clearly describe just what people are as biological entities and why they find the issue of free will to be of significance. In discussing what people are and why free will matters to us, Dennett makes use of an evolutionary perspective. Dennett describes the mechanical behavior of the digger wasp \"Sphex\". This insect follows a series of genetically programmed steps in preparing for egg laying. If an experimenter interrupts one of these steps the wasp will repeat that step again. For an animal like a wasp, this process of repeating the same behavior can go on indefinitely, the wasp never seeming to notice what is going on. This is the type of mindless, pre-determined behavior that humans can avoid. Given the chance to repeat some futile behavior endlessly, people can notice the futility of it, and by an act of free will do something else. We can take this as an operational definition of what people mean by free will. Dennett points out the fact that as long as people see themselves as able to avoid futility, most people have seen enough of the free will issue. Dennett then invites all who are satisfied with this level of analysis to get on with living while he proceeds into the deeper hair-splitting aspects of the free will issue.\n\nFrom a biological perspective, what is the difference between the wasp and a person? The person can, through interaction with his/her environment, construct an internal mental model of the situation and figure out a successful behavioral strategy. The wasp, with a much smaller brain and different genetic program, does not learn from its environment and instead is trapped in an endless and futile behavioral loop that is strictly determined by its genetic program. It is in this sense of people as animals with complex brains that can model reality and appear to choose among several possible behaviors that Dennett says we have free will.\n\nThe deeper philosophical issue of free will can be framed as a paradox. On one hand, we all feel like we have free will, a multitude of behavioral choices to select among. On the other hand, modern biology generally investigates humans as though the processes at work in them follow the same biological principles as those in wasps. How do we reconcile our feeling of free will with the idea that we might be mechanical components of a mechanical universe?\n\nWhat about determinism? When we say that a person chooses among several possible behaviors is there really a choice or does it just seem like there is a choice? Do people just (through the action of their more complex brains) simply have better behaviors than wasps, while still being totally mechanical in executing those behaviors? Dennett gives his definition of determinism on page one: \"All physical events are caused or determined by the sum total of all previous events\". This definition dodges a question that many people feel should not be dodged: if we repeatedly replayed the universe from the same point in time would it always reach the same future? Since we have no way of performing this experiment, this question is a long-term classic in philosophy and physicists have tried to interpret the results of other experiments in various ways in order to figure out the answer to this question. Modern day physics-oriented philosophers have sometimes tried to answer the question of free will using the many-worlds interpretation, according to which every time there is quantum indeterminacy each possibility occurs and new universes branch off. Since the 1920s, physicists have been trying to convince themselves that quantum indeterminacy can in some way explain free will. Dennett suggests that this idea is silly. How, he asks, can random resolutions of quantum-level events provide people with any control over their behavior?\n\nSince Dennett wrote \"Elbow Room\" (1984) there has been an ongoing attempt by some scientists to answer this question by suggesting that the brain is a device for controlling quantum indeterminacy so as to construct behavioral choice. Dennett argues that such efforts to salvage free will by finding a way out of the prison of determinism are wasted. \n\nDennett discusses many types of free will (1984). Many philosophers have claimed that determinism and free will are incompatible. What the physicists seem to be trying to construct is a type of free will that involves a way for brains to make use of quantum indeterminacy so as to make choices that alter the universe in our favor, or if there are multiple universes, to choose among the possible universes. Dennett suggests that we can have another kind of free will, a type of free will which we can be perfectly happy with even if it does not give us the power to act in more than one way at any given time. Dennett is able to accept determinism and free will at the same time. How so?\n\nThe type of free will that Dennett thinks we have is finally stated clearly in the last chapter of the book: the power to be active agents, biological devices that respond to our environment with rational, desirable courses of action. Dennett has slowly, through the course of the book, stripped the idea of behavioral choice from his idea of free will. How can we have free will if we do not have indeterministic choice? Dennett emphasizes control over libertarian choice. If our hypothetically mechanical brains are in control of our behavior and our brains produce good behaviors for us, then do we really need such choice? Is an illusion of behavioral choices just as good as actual choices? Is our sensation of having the freedom to execute more than one behavior at a given time really just an illusion? Dennett argues that choice exists in a general sense: that because we base our decisions on context, we limit our options as the situation becomes more specific. In the most specific circumstance (actual events), he suggests there is only one option left to us.\n\nIf people are determined to act as they do, then what about personal responsibility? How can we hold people responsible and punish them for their behaviors if they have no choice in how they behave? Dennett gives a two-part answer to this question:\n\nFirst, we hold people responsible for their actions because we know from historical experience that this is an effective means to make people behave in a socially acceptable way. Second, holding people responsible only works when combined with the fact that people can be informed of the fact that they are being held responsible and respond to this state of affairs by controlling their behavior so as to avoid punishment. People who break the rules set by society and get punished may be behaving in the only way they can, but if we did not hold them accountable for their actions, people would behave even worse than they do with the threat of punishment. This is a totally utilitarian approach to the issue of responsibility. Expressing moral indignation when people break the rules of proper behaviour is only useful to the extent that it contributes to dissuading such behaviour. Again, an argument from utility. Is it, then, moral to punish people who are unable to do other than break a rule? Yes, people have the right to come together and improve their condition by creating rules and enforcing them. We would be worse off if we did not do so. Again, an argument from utility.\n\nOne final issue: if people do not have real behavioral choices, why not collapse into fatalism? Again, Dennett's argument is that we may not have behavioral choice, but we do have control of our behavior. Dennett asks us to look around at the universe and ask, can I even conceive of beings whose will is freer than our own? For Dennett, the answer to this question is, no, not really. In \"Elbow Room\", he tries to explain why all the attempts that people have tried to make to prove that people have libertarian choice have failed and are, in the final analysis, not really important anyhow. As humans, we are as much in control of our behavior as anything in the universe. As humans, we have the best chance to produce good behavior. We should be satisfied with what we have and not fret over our lack of libertarian free will.\n\nSome complaints about \"Elbow Room\" relate to our intuitions about free will. Some say that Dennett's theory does not satisfactorily deal with the issue of why we feel so strongly that we do have behavioral choice. One answer to this question is the result of selection on individuals to live harmoniously in society. But one doesn't have to be free to achieve that goal. Another answer is that it tells us (our brains) whether we're doing something or someone else is doing something to us (e.g. shaking arm). But, again one does not have to be free to make such a distinction. A final answer to this question is that our sensation of having behavioral choice has been carefully selected by evolution. The well-developed human sensation of having free will and being able to select among possible behaviors has strong survival value. People who lose the feeling that they can plan alternative behaviors and execute their choice of possible behaviors tend to become fatalistic and stop struggling for survival. According to Dennett, belief in free will is a necessary condition for having free will. When we are planning for the future and thinking about possible actions to take in the future, we are utilizing considerable amounts of biologically expensive resources (brain power). Evolution has designed us to feel strongly that all of our effort of planning pays off, that we control what we do. If this connection between our brains' efforts to model reality and predict the future and so make possible good outcomes is disconnected from our sense of self and our will, then fatalism and self-destructive behaviors are close at hand. However, the same effect is attainted if, despite not believing in the control free will gives, we believe that does not prevent us to live as fully as our bodies allow us to and to try harder to achieve things if we think we have agency.\n\n"}
{"id": "328763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=328763", "title": "Emblem", "text": "Emblem\n\nAn emblem is an abstract or representational pictorial image that represents a concept, like a moral truth, or an allegory, or a person, like a king or saint.\n\nAlthough the words \"emblem\" and \"symbol\" are often used interchangeably, an emblem is a pattern that is used to represent an idea or an individual. An emblem crystallizes in concrete, visual terms some abstraction: a deity, a tribe or nation, or a virtue or vice.\n\nAn emblem may be worn or otherwise used as an identifying badge or patch. For example, in America, police officers' badges refer to their personal metal emblem whereas their woven emblems on uniforms identify members of a particular unit. A real or metal cockle shell, the emblem of St. James the Apostle, sewn onto the hat or clothes, identified a medieval pilgrim to his shrine at Santiago de Compostela. In the Middle Ages, many saints were given emblems, which served to identify them in paintings and other images: St. Catherine had a wheel, or a sword, St. Anthony Abbot, a pig and a small bell. These are also called attributes, especially when shown carried by or close to the saint in art. Kings and other grand persons increasingly adopted personal devices or emblems that were distinct from their family heraldry. The most famous include Louis XIV of France's sun, the salamander of Francis I of France, the boar of Richard III of England and the armillary sphere of Manuel I of Portugal. In the fifteenth and sixteenth century, there was a fashion, started in Italy, for making large medals with a portrait head on the obverse and the emblem on the reverse; these would be given to friends and as diplomatic gifts. Pisanello produced many of the earliest and finest of these.\n\nA symbol, on the other hand, substitutes one thing for another, in a more concrete fashion:\n\nA totem is specifically an animal emblem that expresses the spirit of a clan. Heraldry knows its emblems as charges. The lion passant serves as the emblem of England, the lion rampant as the emblem of Scotland.\n\nAn icon consists of an image (originally a religious image), that has become standardized by convention. A logo is an impersonal, secular icon, usually of a corporate entity.\n\nSince the 15th century the terms of emblem (\"emblema\"; from , meaning \"embossed ornament\") and emblematura belong to the \"termini technici\" of architecture. They mean an iconic painted, drawn, or sculptural representation of a concept affixed to houses and belong—like the inscriptions—to the architectural ornaments (ornamenta). Since the publication of \n\"De Re Aedificatoria\" (1452, Ten Books of Architecture),[8] by Leon Battista Alberti (1404–1472), patterned after the \"De architectura\" by the Roman architect and engineer Vitruvius, \"emblema\" are related to Egyptian hieroglyphics and are considered as being the lost universal language.\nTherefore, the emblems belong to the Renaissance knowledge of antiquity which comprises not only Greek and Roman antiquity but also Egyptian antiquity as proven by the numerous obelisks built in 16th and 17th century Rome.\n\nThe 1531 publication in Augsburg of the first emblem book, the \"Emblemata\" of the Italian jurist Andrea Alciato launched a fascination with emblems that lasted two centuries and touched most of the countries of western Europe. \"Emblem\" in this sense refers to a didactic or moralizing combination of picture and text intended to draw the reader into a self-reflective examination of his or her own life. Complicated associations of emblems could transmit information to the culturally-informed viewer, a characteristic of the 16th-century artistic movement called Mannerism.\n\nA popular collection of emblems, which ran to many editions, was presented by Francis Quarles in 1635. Each of the emblems consisted of a paraphrase from a passage of Scripture, expressed in ornate and metaphorical language, followed by passages from the Christian Fathers, and concluding with an epigram of four lines. These were accompanied by an emblem that presented the symbols displayed in the accompanying passage.\n\nEmblems are certain gestures which have a specific meaning attached to them. These meanings usually are associated with the culture they are established in. Using emblems creates a way for humans to communicate with one another in a non-verbal way. An individual waving their hand at a friend, for example, would communicate \"hello\" without having to verbally say anything.\n\nAlthough sign language uses hand gestures to communicate words in a non-verbal way, it should not be confused with emblems. Sign language contains linguistic properties, similar to those used in verbal languages, and is used to communicate entire conversations. Linguistic properties are verbs, nouns, pronouns, adverbs, adjectives, etc... In contrast with sign language, emblems are a non-linguistic form of communication. Emblems are single gestures which are meant to get a short non-verbal message to another individual.\n\nEmblems are associated with the culture they are established in and are subjective to that said culture. For example, the OK sign used in America to communicate \"OK\" in a non-verbal way, also means “O” in the state of France. The same OK sign means \"money\" in the country of Japan, and in some European countries the OK sign means something sexual. Furthermore, the thumbs up sign in America means \"good job or good luck\", but in some parts of the Middle East the thumbs up sign means something highly offensive.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14548099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14548099", "title": "Encounter (psychology)", "text": "Encounter (psychology)\n\nThe term \"encounter\", in the context of existential-humanism (like existential therapy), has the specific meaning of an authentic, congruent meeting between individuals.\n\nSome uses of the concept of encountering:\n\n"}
{"id": "27376078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27376078", "title": "Environmental peacebuilding", "text": "Environmental peacebuilding\n\nEnvironmental peacebuilding examines and advocates environmental protection and cooperation as a factor in peaceful relations. Peacebuilding is both the theory and practice of identifying the conditions that can lead to a sustainable peace between those who have previously been adversaries, and assisting adversaries to move towards a sustainable peace. In the Middle East, common environmental challenges have been identified as a basis for regional cooperation and peacebuilding. A small Middle Eastern civil society network reaches across adversarial boundaries to promote and practice environmental cooperation.\n\nThe study of peacebuilding (a term coined by Galtung, 1975) develops from interest in identifying the conditions that lead beyond a temporary cessation of violence to sustainable processes of conflict management and mutual cooperation between those who have previously been adversaries. Lederach is most commonly cited, and his work has influenced national aid and development agencies, international agencies, and the network of NGOs that have placed peacebuilding on their agendas. \n\nBeginning with Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali promoting An Agenda for Peace in 1992, the United Nations adopted the language of peacebuilding and developed programs based on it. Initiatives promoting human security and human rights share a similar concern with developing an international system that promotes the underlying conditions for the movement towards a peaceful world.\n\nWithin the field of peacebuilding studies and practice, there is a sub-literature on environmental peacebuilding that examines the role of environmental factors in moving towards a sustainable peace. At the most basic level, warfare devastates ecosystems and the livelihoods of those who depend on natural resources, and the anarchy of conflict situations leads to the uncontrolled, destructive exploitation of natural resources. Preventing these impacts allows for an easier movement to a sustainable peace. From a more positive perspective, environmental cooperation can be one of the places where hostile parties can sustain a dialogue, and sustainable development is a prerequisite for a sustainable peace.\n\nConca and Wallace note the relationship between environmental peacebuilding projects and studies of environment and conflict. They observe that environmental challenges may be opportunities for peacebuilding, but they may also harden differences and reinforce conflict. Environmental challenges are also usually complexly interconnected to economic and governance challenges. Environmental issues are now routinely acknowledged as aspects of conflicts, and are necessarily part of the movement towards conflict management and the transformation of conflictual relations into peaceful ones. \n\nThe United Nations Environment Programme has placed environmental conflict and cooperation on its agenda, conducted environmental assessments of conflict zones and has recommended a stronger integration of environmental issues into the work of the UN Peacebuilding Commission. \"Land and Environment\" is one of the ten themes of the United Nations Peacebuilding Portal. The University for Peace, sponsored by the United Nations, includes “Environmental Security and Peace” as one of its eight graduate programs. \n\nGovernmental and civil society organizations have also explored the role of environmental issues in peacebuilding. The EU sponsored Initiative for Peacebuilding has produced a series of papers on environmental peacebuilding. The International Crisis Group includes Climate Change and Conflict as one of its key areas. In conflict settings, civil society groups have promoted environmental peacebuilding.\n\nThe 1991 Madrid Conference, co-sponsored by the United States and the USSR, brought together representatives of the governments of Israel, Syria, Lebanon, and Jordan, and a Palestinian delegation within the Jordanian delegation. The conference established working groups on refugees, regional security, economic development, water, and environment. The working groups on water and environment, and to some extent the one on economic development as well, had the agenda of bringing environmental cooperation and sustainable development into the formulation of a path to a sustainable \nMiddle East peace. \n\nThe subsequent Oslo Accords between Israel and the Palestinian Liberation Organization and the Peace treaty between Jordan and Israel each had sections that envisioned joint committees on water, environmental cooperation and economic development. When negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority stalled and relations again became strongly adversarial, progress towards cooperation on water, the environment and sustainable development also stalled. At the formal level there are contacts across adversarial lines between government officials and experts, water infrastructure was kept out of the violence of the Second Intifadah, and there is some degree of cooperation – not widely publicized - on urgent water and environmental concerns. Cooperative relations between Jordan and Israel have been maintained but progress is limited by the effects of the unresolved Palestinian-Israeli conflict. \n\nDiplomatic work on environmental peacebuilding in the region has been supplemented by the development of a small network of civil society organizations that promote and practice regional environmental cooperation.\n\nIPCRI opened in 1989 during the first Intifada under joint Israeli and Palestinian directors. IPCRI established the Water and Environment division in 1992. A 1993 edited book presented Palestinian and Israeli perspectives on water cooperation. Three IPCRI workshops held between 1994-6 on \"Our Shared Environment\" were followed by three volumes of papers from the workshops. The IPCRI Water and Environment division took the lead in organizing a 2004 Israeli-Palestinian International \"Water for Life\" Conference, co-chaired by Israeli and Palestinian professors, held in Turkey, where over five days about 130 participants from the region were joined by about 50 international water experts. \n\nSubsequently, working with Israeli and Palestinian experts, IPCRI undertook a study of the management of the trans-boundary Nahal Alexander / Wadi Zomer basin. IPCRI is a partner in the \"GLOWA Jordan River\" study of the impact of climate change on the Jordan basin, and has undertaken, with the support of the Government of Japan, work designed to provide a model for low cost sanitation to a West Bank village.\n\nEcoPeace / FoEME was founded in 1994 as a meeting place for Palestinian, Egyptian, Jordanian and Israeli environmental NGOs and became an affiliate of Friends of the Earth in 1998. FOEME has a wide range of projects – organized around particular geographic areas (the Jordan River valley, the Dead Sea, the Gulf of Aqaba / Eilat), water (Good Water Neighbors, the Red Sea-Dead Sea Conduit, the mountain aquifer, \"water, peace and the environment,\" water privatization), and environmental policy (sustainable development, climate change, \"violent conflicts and the environment,\" trade and environment, solar power and healthy food). FoEME has promoted protection rather than development of the Dead Sea and its designation as a UNESCO World Heritage Site, advocated the establishment of a \"peace park\" along the Jordan River, and vigorously questioned the proposed mega-project to channel water from the Read Sea to the Dead Sea. \n\nSince 2001 the FoEME Good Water Neighbors project has been working with Israeli, Palestinian and Jordanian communities that are mutually dependent on shared water resources. Each community is partnered with a neighboring community. Good Water Neighbors works with local community members on water education, awareness and development. GWN uses dependence on shared water sources as a basis for dialogue and cooperation between partnered communities.\n\nFoEME has published its own study of environmental peacebuilding, and circulates a monthly \"environmental peacemaking\" listserv.\n\nThe institute opened in the 1996-7 academic year. For one or two semesters students from Israel, Jordan, Palestine, Egypt and overseas live and study together on Kibbutz Ketura (in a remote part of the Negev desert south of the West Bank and just across the valley from Jordan) and receive university credit. Enrolment, which is capped at 45, has varied. From 1996 to 2010, about 600 students have studied at the institute. University credit is now received through Ben Gurion University, and the institute co-sponsors a Master's program with Ben Gurion, in which some of its alumni have studied.\n\nThe alumni division maintains active Yahoo and Facebook \"groups.\" Alumni involvement is supplemented by the Arava Alumni Peace and Environment Network (AAPEN) which held its first meeting in Aqaba in 2005 and has held subsequent meetings and other activities. The institute has also developed as a research center. The institute participates in projects as partners with Palestinian and Jordanian researchers and research organizations. These projects have included developing a center for sustainable agriculture, developing policy options for the Dead Sea, transboundary stream restoration, and a study of health effects from exposure to airborne particles. These projects involve links to international networks of research funding, and have brought regional conferences to the institute on a regular basis. The institute has co-sponsored a conference on alternative energy and the supported the development of the solar power oriented Arava Power Corporation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "504356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=504356", "title": "Equality feminism", "text": "Equality feminism\n\nEquality feminism is a subset of the overall feminism movement that focuses on the basic similarities between men and women, and whose ultimate goal is the equality of the sexes in all domains. This includes economic and political equality, equal access within the workplace, freedom from oppressive gender stereotyping, and an androgynous worldview.\n\nFeminist theory seeks to promote the legal status of women as equal and undifferentiated from that of men. While equality feminists largely agree that men and women have basic biological differences in anatomy and frame, they argue that on a psychological level, the use of ration or reason is androgynous. For equality feminists, men and women are equal in terms of their ability to reason, achieve goals, and prosper in both the work and home front.\n\nEquality feminism was the dominant version of feminism following Mary Wollstonecraft's \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1792). Wollstonecraft made the case that women's equality to men manifests itself in education and worker's rights, and further produced a proverbial roadmap in order for future women to follow in terms of activism and feminist theorizing. Since then, active equality feminist include Simone de Beauvoir, the Seneca Falls Convention Leaders, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucretia Coffin Mott, Susan B. Anthony, Betty Friedan, and Gloria Steinem.\n\nWhile equality feminism was the dominant perspective of feminism during the 19th and 20th century, the 1980s and 1990s brought about a new focus in popular feminism on difference feminism, or the essential differences between men and women. In opposition to equality feminism, this view advocates for the celebration of the \"feminine\" by focusing on traditionally viewed female traits, such as empathy, nurturing, and care. While equality feminists view human nature as essentially androgynous, difference feminists claim that this viewpoint aligns the \"good\" with male-dominated stereotypes, thus sticking within the patriarchal framework of society.\n\nIn both law and in theology women were portrayed as both physically and intellectually inferior. One of the first feminist documents that set the stage for feministic movements occurred when Mary Wollstonecraft wrote \"Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" in 1792. While this literature was seen as rebellious at the time it echoed the feelings of women throughout France as women's republican clubs demanded that liberty, equality and fraternity should be applied to both men and women. While this movement gained notoriety it was eventually extinguished by Napoleon Bonaparte's Code Napoleon that established that the husband had complete control over the family and regressed equality feminism.\n\nWhile much of the equality feminism movements that occurred in France weren't successful, they influenced much of the movements that occurred in North America in the 1800s. Both Abigail Adams and Mercy Otis Warren fought for woman's emancipation to be included in the constitution of 1776 to no avail. However, Elizabeth Cade Stanton, Lucretia Coffin Mott, along with thousands of other women changed the dynamics of equality feminism forever with the women's convention at Seneca Falls N.Y. in 1848. Here along with independence they demanded full legal equality in all aspects of life (education, commercial opportunities, compensation, voting rights, etc.). With the influence of Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony, this movement evolved into Europe. In 1869 John Stuart Mill published \"The Subjection of Women\" in which he argued that equality between the sexes would translate to more moral and intellectual advancement which in turn would result in more human happiness to everyone.\n\nAfter the expansion into Europe, the movement stifled its growth until 1920 where the woman suffrage movement occurred, as many women were divided when determining whether or not women were on equal standing with men. This continued until the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women was established in 1946 to secure equal political, economic and educational opportunities for women throughout the world. In 1949, a French Existentialist Simone de Beauvoir published the work \"The Second Sex\", in which she debunks many of the claims made towards women and fights for gender equality. In 1963 another literature pertaining to equality feminism arose, with Betty Friedan's \"The Feminine Mystique\" in which she discussed \"the problem that has no name\", being the widespread unhappiness of women in the 1950s. She uses this information to describe many of the gender inequalities that society has created that has resulted in this unhappiness, such as giving up her psychology career to tend to her children. Using these literatures as a guide feminism once again arose in the United States with the development of the National Organization for Women (NOW) formed in 1966. This organization fought for the removal of all legal and social barriers placed upon women to once again influence true equality between men and women. In 1972 women leaders such as Bella Abzug, Betty Friedan, and Gloria Steinem pushed the Equal Rights Amendment through Congress; however, it fell short of ratification by 1982.\n\nEquality feminist theory is the extension of the equality of the male and female into theoretical and philosophical fields of thought. At its core, equality feminist theory advocates for the equal standing of both men and women in terms of desires, wants, goals, and achievement. Thus, from this viewpoint, the basis of human nature outside of culture is androgynous, neutral, and equal.\n\nMuch of equality feminism focuses on the relation of reason as the central tenet of both men and women equally. Mary Wollstonecraft in \"A Vindication on the Rights of Women\" (1792) claimed that women should enjoy the same legal and political rights as men on the grounds that they are human beings. Specifically, Wollstonecraft argues for \"[a]sserting the rights which women in common with men ought to contend for\". In this way, both men and women should have equal access to rights because they have an equal access to the capacity to reason. Similarly, \"The Subjection of Women\" (1869), John Stuart Mill advocated that society ought to be arranged according to reason and that 'accidents of birth' is irrelevant. Thus, because both men and women are governed by principles of reason, then the biological elements such as sex, gender, and race aren't contributing factors to the essence of the individual. Mill notes that within a patriarchal society, \"Men hold women in subjection by representing to them meekness, submissiveness resignation of all individual will into the hands of a man as an essential part of sexual attractiveness\". In this way, to say that women have essential characteristics of submission by nature of their sex is an oppressive measure that contradicts the basic principle of reason that governs all human nature.\n\nIn 1792 Wollstonecraft wrote one of the earliest works in feminist philosophy and though she doesn't explicitly state that men and women are equal she does call for equality in various realms of life which set the stage for future equality feminist works. In her piece \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman: with Strictures on Political and Moral Subjects\", Wollstonecraft argues that women should have an education comparable to their position in society. She articulates her argument by claiming that since women were the primary care givers they could be able to better educate their own children and be seen as \"companions\" to the husband rather than wives if they were given this opportunity. Instead of being considered \"property\" that were exchanged through marriage, Wollstonecraft maintains that women are human beings and therefore deserve equal fundamental rights as men.\n\nIn 1869, John Stuart Mill with the help of his wife Harriet Taylor Mill published \"The Subjection of Women\", in it he argued for equality between the sexes. John Stuart Mill was able to draw off of some of the arguments his wife made in her essay \"The Enfranchisement of Women\", in which she opened the door of favoring equality for both men and women. Mill believe that the moral and intellectual advancement from giving women the opportunity to be considered equal would translate to greater happiness for everyone involved. He believed that all humans had the capability of being educated and civilized, with which he argued women should be given the right to vote. Throughout the book Mill continues to argue that both men and women should be able to vote to defend their rights and be able to have the opportunity to stand on their own two feet morally and intellectually, and constantly used his position in Parliament to advocate for women's suffrage.\n\nMill attacks many of the arguments that women are inferior at certain activities and therefore be forbidden from doing them by saying that women aren't given the opportunities and therefore we don't know what women are capable of. He claims that males are making an authoritative statement without evidence, an argument solely based on speculation. Mill claims that by giving women this opportunity to figure out exactly what they were capable of would double the mass of mental faculties to serve humanity, and could produce a great impact on human development.\n\nSimone de Beauvoir played a large role in equality feminism with the publishing of her book \"The Second Sex\", broken into 3 parts. In the first part, \"Destiny\", de Beauvoir discusses the relationship of male to female in a variety of creatures before comparing human beings. This physiological data along with psychoanalytical data help her come to the conclusion that there wasn't a historical defeat of the female sex. Part two, \"History\", outlines the two factors in the evolution of women's condition: participation in production and freedom from reproductive slavery. In these chapters, de Beauvoir compares being a women to being like an animal, similar to the way male animals dominated a female. Finally in part three, \"Myths\", de Beauvoir discusses the perceived \"everlasting disappointment\" of women from a male heterosexual point of view. She then comes back and discusses full reality of the situation to show the discrepancies between perception and reality. Throughout her literary career, de Beauvoir helped unravel some of the \"myths\" associated with perceptions in gender and set forth a strong message that men and women should be treated equal with equal rights.\n\nBetty Friedan became one of the most recognized equality feminists after writing the book \"The Feminine Mystique\", in which she discusses \"the problem that has no name\", female unhappiness in the 1950s and 1960s. It was through this book that Friedman was able to address many of the problems and the widespread recognition allowed her to later become president of the National Organization for Women(NOW). \n\nThroughout the piece Friedan addressed the problem that women had \"wanting more than a husband, children, and a home\". Friedan discusses the societal expectations of raising children and how this caused many women to not be able to do what they wanted. Many decisions that were made for women were made by men and this had worn out many women. She discusses the problem of education and that many families solely focused on education for the male children and women were instead \"assigned to be married to fulfill child-bearing expectations\". It was through the impact of this piece of literature that women were finally given a voice to say it was okay to not want to conform to societal expectations and fight for equality of opportunities, choices, marriage, education, and voting.\n\nThe main objection raised to equality feminism comes in the form of difference feminism, the belief that emphasizes the differences between men and women. This viewpoint, as championed by such feminists such as Carol Gilligan, Joan Tronto, Eva Feder Kittay, Genevieve Lloyd, Alison Jaggar, and Ynestra King, developed out of the rejection of the androgynous view of human nature as emphasized in equality feminism. Begun largely in the 1980s, this viewpoint makes the case that equality feminism fails to account for the uniquely female experience, and thus creates the male perspective as the dominant aspiration.\n\n"}
{"id": "568048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=568048", "title": "Fighting in ice hockey", "text": "Fighting in ice hockey\n\nFighting in ice hockey is an established tradition of the sport in North America, with a long history that involves many levels of amateur and professional play and includes some notable individual fights. Fighting is usually performed by enforcers, or \"goons\"—players whose role is to fight and intimidate—on a given team, and is governed by a complex system of unwritten rules that players, coaches, officials, and the media refer to as \"the code\". Some fights are spontaneous, while others are premeditated by the participants. While officials tolerate fighting during hockey games, they impose a variety of penalties on players who engage in fights.\n\nUnique among North American professional team sports, the National Hockey League (NHL) and most minor professional leagues in North America do not eject players outright for fighting (although they may do so for more flagrant violations as part of a fight) but major European and collegiate hockey leagues do, and multi-game suspensions may be added on top of the ejection. Therefore, the vast majority of fights occur in the NHL and other North American professional leagues.\n\nPhysical play in hockey, consisting of allowed techniques such as checking and prohibited techniques such as elbowing, high-sticking, and cross-checking, is linked to fighting. Although often a target of criticism, it is a considerable draw for the sport, and some fans attend games primarily to see fights. Those who defend fighting in hockey say that it helps deter other types of rough play, allows teams to protect their star players, and creates a sense of solidarity among teammates. The debate over allowing fighting in ice hockey games is ongoing. Despite its potentially negative consequences, such as heavier enforcers (or \"heavyweights\") knocking each other out, administrators at the professional level have no plans to eliminate fighting from the game, as most players consider it essential. Most fans and players oppose eliminating fights from professional hockey games, but considerable opposition to fighting exists and efforts to eliminate it continue.\n\nFighting has been a part of ice hockey since the sport's rise in popularity in 19th century Canada. There are a number of theories behind the integration of fighting into the game; the most common is that the relative lack of rules in the early history of hockey encouraged physical intimidation and control. Other theories include the poverty and high crime rates of local Canada in the 19th century. The implementation of some features, such as the blue lines in 1918, actually encouraged fighting due to the increased level of physical play. Creation of the blue lines allowed forward passing, but only in the neutral zone. Therefore, puck handlers played at close quarters and were subject to a great deal of physical play. The emergence of enforcers, who protected the puck handlers and fought when necessary, followed shortly thereafter.\n\nIn 1922, the NHL introduced Rule 56, which formally regulated fighting, or \"fisticuffs\" as it was called in the official NHL rulebook. Rather than ejecting players from the game, as was the practice in amateur and collegiate hockey, players would be given a five-minute major penalty. Rule 56 and its language also filtered down to the minor professional and junior leagues in North America. Promoters such as Tex Rickard of Madison Square Garden, who also promoted boxing events, saw financial opportunities in hockey fights and devised marketing campaigns around the rivalries between various team enforcers.\n\nIn the current NHL rulebook, the archaic reference to \"fisticuffs\" has been removed; fighting is now governed under Rule 46 in the NHL rulebook. Referees are given considerable latitude in determining what exactly constitutes a fight and what penalties are applicable to the participants. Significant modifications from the original rule involve penalties which can be assessed to a fight participant deemed to have instigated the fight and additional penalties resulting from instigating a fight while wearing a face-shield.\n\nAlthough fighting was rarer from the 1920s through the 1960s, it was often brutal in nature; author Ross Bernstein said of the game's early years that it \"was probably more like rugby on skates than it was modern hockey.\" Star players were also known to fight for themselves during the Original Six era, when fewer teams existed than in later years. However, as the NHL's expansion in the late 1960s created more roster spots and spread star players more widely throughout the league, enforcers (who usually possess limited overall skill sets) became more common. Multiple fights during the era received significant media attention. In an NHL preseason game between the Boston Bruins and St. Louis Blues in 1969, Bruins defenceman Ted Green and Blues left wing Wayne Maki, attacking Green, engaged in a bloody stick-swinging fight that resulted in Green sustaining a skull fracture. In 1978, World Hockey Association Birmingham Bulls enforcer Dave Hanson, known for his 11-year professional career, fought Hall of Famer Bobby Hull and in the process got Hull's wig caught in his knuckles. The incident landed Hanson in the news, and irate Winnipeg fans attempted to assault him on his way out of the arena. Hanson appeared in the 1977 movie \"Slap Shot\", a comedy about hockey violence.\n\nThe rise of the \"\" in the 1973–74 and 1974–75 Philadelphia Flyers served as an example for future NHL enforcers. The average number of fights per game rose above 1.0 during the 1980s, peaking at 1.17 in 1983–84. That season, a bench-clearing brawl broke out at the end of the second period of a second-round playoff matchup between the Quebec Nordiques and the Montreal Canadiens. A second bench-clearing brawl erupted before the third period began, provoked by the announcement of penalties; a total of 252 penalty minutes were incurred and 11 players were ejected. This game is commonly referred to as the \"Good Friday Massacre\".\n\nMany teams signed enforcers to protect and fight for smaller offensive stars. Fights in the 1990s included the Brawl in Hockeytown in 1997, in which the Colorado Avalanche and Detroit Red Wings engaged in nine fights, including bouts between Darren McCarty and Claude Lemieux and goalies Patrick Roy and Mike Vernon. The following year, a game between the Avalanche and Red Wings involved a fight between goaltenders Chris Osgood and Roy after which they received minor, major, and game misconduct penalties. In 2004, a Philadelphia Flyers – Ottawa Senators game resulted in five consecutive brawls in the closing minutes of the game, including fights between many players who are not known as enforcers and a fight between Flyers goalie Robert Esche and Senators goalie Patrick Lalime. The game ended with an NHL record 419 penalty minutes, and an NHL record 20 players were ejected, leaving five players on the team benches. The officials took 90 minutes to sort out the penalties that each team had received.\n\nBy 2009–10, the number of fights in the NHL declined to .58 per game. A further decrease in the frequency of fighting happened over the next five seasons. The 2014–15 season had 0.32 fights per game, as teams placed a greater emphasis on skating ability and fewer young players became enforcers.\n\nSince the 1970s, three rules have curtailed the number and scope of fights in the NHL. In 1971, the league created the \"Third Man In\" rule which attempts to eliminate the bench-clearing brawl by providing for the ejection of the first player who joins a fight already in progress, unless a match penalty is being assessed to a player already engaged in that fight. Another rule automatically suspends the first player from each team that leaves the bench to join a fight when it is not their shift. In 1992, the \"Instigator\" rule, which adds an additional two-minute minor penalty to the player who starts a fight, was introduced.\n\nRules of the NHL, the North American junior leagues, and other North American professional minor leagues punish fighting with a five-minute major penalty. What separates these leagues from other major North American sports leagues is that they do not eject players simply for participating in a fight. However, fighting is frequently punishable by ejection in European leagues and in Olympic competition.\n\nThe rulebooks of the NHL and other professional leagues contain specific rules for fighting. These rules state that at the initiation of a fight, both players must definitely drop their sticks so as not to use them as a weapon. Players must also \"drop\" or shake off their protective gloves to fight bare-knuckled, as the hard leather and plastic of hockey gloves would increase the effect of landed blows. Players should not remove their own helmet before engaging in a fight due to risk of head injury or else both of the opposing players get an extra two penalty minutes. Players must also heed a referee warning to end a fight once the opponents have been separated. Failure to adhere to any of these rules results in an immediate game misconduct penalty and the possibility of fines and suspension from future games. In the NHL, when a player is fined, his lost pay goes towards the NHL emergency assistance fund. A fined coach's lost pay goes to the NHL Foundation.\n\nIn the NHL, American Hockey League (AHL), ECHL, Southern Professional Hockey League, and other notable minor leagues, officials punish combatants with five-minute major penalties for fighting (hence the phrase \"five for fighting\"). A player is automatically ejected and suspended if the player tries to leave the bench to join a fight, or for using weapons of any kind (such as using a skate to kick an opponent, using a stick to hit an opponent, wrapping tape around one's hands, or spitting), as they can cause serious injury. A player who receives two instigator penalties or participates in three fights in a single game is also ejected automatically. Furthermore, his coach can be suspended up to ten games for allowing players to leave the bench to join a fight.\n\nA player who commits three major penalties (including fighting) during a game is automatically ejected, suspended, and fined. A player ejected for three major penalties in a game, or for use of weapons, cannot be replaced for five minutes. In 2003, the ECHL added an ejection, fine, and suspension of an additional game for any player charged as an instigator of a fight during the final five minutes of the third period or any overtime. The NHL and AHL adopted the rule in 2005–06, and the NHL includes a fine against the ejected player's head coach.\n\nIn Division I and Division III National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) hockey, the fighters are given a Game Disqualification, which is an ejection from the game and a suspension for as many games as the player has accrued Game Disqualifications during the course of a season. For example, if a player engages in a fight having already received a Game Disqualification earlier in the season, he is ejected from that game and suspended for his team's next two games. This automatic suspension has made fighting in college hockey relatively rare.\n\nFighting is strictly prohibited in European professional hockey leagues and in Olympic ice hockey. The international rules (by the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF)) specify in rule 141 – \"Fighting\" the following penalties (among others):\n\nDespite the bans, there have been fights in European leagues. In 2001, a game between the Nottingham Panthers and the Sheffield Steelers in the British Superleague saw \"some of the worst scenes of violence seen at a British ice hockey rink\". When Sheffield enforcer Dennis Vial crosschecked Nottingham forward Greg Hadden, Panthers enforcer Barry Nieckar subsequently fought with Vial, which eventually escalated into a 36-man bench-clearing brawl. Referee Moray Hanson sent both teams to their locker rooms and delayed the game for 45 minutes while tempers cooled and the officials sorted out the penalties. Eight players and both coaches were ejected, and a British record total of 404 penalty minutes were incurred during the second period. The league handed out 30 games in suspensions to four players and Steelers' coach Mike Blaisdell and a total of £8,400 in fines. Russia's Kontinental Hockey League (KHL) had a bench-clearing brawl between Vityaz Chekhov and Avangard Omsk in 2010. Officials were forced to abandon the game as there were only four players left. Thirty-three players and both teams' coaches were ejected, and a world record total of 707 penalty minutes were incurred during the game. The KHL imposed fines totaling 5.7 million rubles ($191,000), suspended seven players, and counted the game as a 5–0 defeat for both teams, with no points being awarded.\n\nThe Punch-up in Piestany was a notable instance of fighting in international play. A 1987 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships game between Canada and the Soviet Union was the scene of a bench-clearing brawl that lasted 20 minutes and prompted officials to turn off the arena lights in an attempt to stop it, forcing the IIHF to declare the game null and void. The fighting was particularly dangerous as fighting was a surprise and a custom unknown to the Soviet players, some of whom escalated the fighting beyond what was considered acceptable in North America. Both teams were ejected from the tournament, costing Canada an assured medal, and the Soviet team was barred from the end-of-tournament dinner.\n\nThe role of \"enforcer\" on a hockey team is unofficial. Enforcers occasionally play regular shifts like other players, but their primary role is deterring opposing players from rough play. Coaches often send enforcers out when opposing enforcers are on the ice or any time when it is necessary to check excessively physical play by the opposing team. Enforcers, particularly those with questionable playing skills, can be colloquially referred to as goons (a term also occasionally used for a related position, the pest, who may not fight but will agitate an opponent with rough play and goad the opponent into a fight).\n\nThere are many reasons for fights during a hockey game. Some reasons are related to game play, such as retaliation, momentum-building, intimidation, deterrence, attempting to draw \"reaction penalties\", and protecting star players. There are also some personal reasons such as retribution for past incidents, bad blood between players, and simple job security for enforcers. Fights often start in response to an opponent's rough play.\n\nOf the many reasons for fighting, the foremost is retaliation. When players engage in play that members of the opposing team consider unscrupulous, a fight can ensue. The fight may be between the assailant and the victim, between the assailant and an enforcer from the victim's team, or between opposing enforcers. Fights that occur for retaliation purposes can be in immediate response to an on-ice incident, to incidents from earlier in the game, or to actions from past games. Enforcers who intend to start a fight have to consider their timing due to the Instigator rule. For example, putting the opposing team on a power play due to penalties incurred from fighting is less advisable when the game is close.\n\nEnforcers sometimes start fights to build game momentum and provide a psychological advantage over the opposing team. These fights usually involve two enforcers, but may involve any player who is agitating the opposition. This type of fight raises morale on the team of the player who wins, and often excites the home crowd. For that reason, it can also be a gamble to start a fight for momentum; if an enforcer loses the fight, the momentum can swing the wrong way.\n\nIntimidation is an important element of a hockey game and some enforcers start fights just to intimidate opposing players in hopes that they will refrain from agitating skilled players. For example, in the late 1950s, Gordie Howe helped establish himself as an enforcer by defeating Lou Fontinato, a notable tough guy who tallied over 1,200 penalty minutes in his career. Fontinato suffered a broken nose from the fight. After that incident, Howe got a lot more space on the ice and was able to score many goals over the span of his career because he intimidated other players. Conversely, games in European professional leagues are known to be less violent than North American games because fighting is discouraged in Europe by ejection and heavy fines. Since the penalties for fighting are so severe, the enforcers are less able to intimidate opposing players with fighting and said players take more liberties on the ice.\n\nFor teams that face each other frequently, players may fight just to send the message to the opposing players that they will be the target of agitation or aggression in future games. Teams that are losing by a considerable margin often start these fights near the end of the game when they have nothing to lose. Enforcers may start fights with more skilled players to draw what is called a \"reaction penalty\", an undisciplined reaction to aggressive play on the part of the enforcer. This practice is also known to be difficult due to the Instigator rule.\n\nAnother reason is the protection of star players. Fighting within the game can also send a message to players and coaches from other teams that cheap shots, dirty plays, and targeting specific players will not be tolerated and there will be consequences involved. Fighting can provide retribution for a team's player getting targeted or injured. Overall, fighting is sometimes seen as a beneficial policing that the game needs to keep players in line. Over the history of hockey, many enforcers have been signed simply to protect players like Gretzky, who was protected by Dave Semenko, Marty McSorley, and others, and Brett Hull, who was protected by Kelly Chase and others. Many believe that without players protecting each other, referees would affect the game play by having to call more penalties, and the league would have to suspend players for longer periods.\n\nMany young enforcers need to establish their role early in their career to avoid losing their jobs. Due to the farm systems that most professional hockey leagues use, enforcers who get a chance to play at the level above their current one (for example, an AHL player getting a chance to play in an NHL game) need to show other players, coaches, and fans that they are worthy of the enforcer role on the team. Players and coaches enjoy being with enforcers who fight for their teams, not for themselves.\n\nThere are also times when players and even entire teams carry on personal rivalries that have little to do with individual games; fights frequently occur for no other reason. A rivalry that produced many fights was between the Detroit Red Wings and the Colorado Avalanche during the 1990s.\n\nStatistics indicate that fights are detrimental to teams' play, or have inconsequential benefits. Since the 1979–80 season, teams in the bottom three of fighting-related major penalties have finished at the top of the regular-season standings 10 times and have won the Stanley Cup 11 times, while teams in the top three have won the regular season and Stanley Cup only twice each. One statistical analysis calculated that winning a fight benefited a team by about 1/80th of a win in the standings. Two others showed that fights increase scoring, but do so evenly for both teams so do not significantly affect wins.\n\nThe Canadian Academy of Sport Medicine announced in \"Position Statement\" in 1988 that \"Fighting does cause injuries, which range from fractures of the hands and face to lacerations and eye injuries. At present, it is an endemic and ritualized blot on the reputation of the North American game.\"\n\nCriticism often arises after single acts of violence committed during fights. For example, on March 21, 2007, Colton Orr of the New York Rangers fought with Todd Fedoruk of the Philadelphia Flyers and ended up knocking Fedoruk unconscious. Fedoruk already had titanium plates in his face from a fight earlier in the season with Derek Boogaard. The resulting media coverage of the incident renewed calls for a fighting ban. Some players acknowledge that there is no harm in discussing the issue; however, most players and administrators continue to insist that fighting stay as a permanent element of organized ice hockey. Some league administrators, such as former NHL senior vice-president and director of hockey operations Colin Campbell, have been circulating the idea of banning fighting in response to incidents such as the Fedoruk–Orr fight.\n\nSports journalists have articulated the idea with increasing frequency that fighting adds nothing to the sport and should be banned. Among the reasons they cite are that it is unsportsmanlike, is a \"knee-jerk\" reaction that detracts from the skillful aspects of the game, and that it is simply a waste of time. The \"Journal of Sport and Social Issues\"' Ryan T. Lewinson and Oscar E. Palma believe that fighting shows a lack of discipline on the part of participants, as well as a lack of fairness in certain cases, including when fighters have a size disparity. However, supporters of fighting say it provides a means of security for players, that fighting is a tool players use to keep opposing players in check; essentially allowing players to police which hits and dirty plays are unacceptable.\n\nVarious politicians and hockey figures have expressed opposition to fighting. In 2012, David Johnston, the Governor General of Canada, said that fighting should not be part of the sport. IIHF president Rene Fasel has protested against fighting, deeming it \"Neanderthal behavior.\" Wayne Gretzky, considered by many to be the greatest hockey player of all time, has often spoken out against fisticuffs, although he expressed support for fighting in 2004.\n\nNHL Commissioner Gary Bettman, at a 2007 press conference broadcast on CBC Sports, said, \"Fighting has always had a role in the game ... from a player safety standpoint, what happens in fighting is something we need to look at just as we need to look at hits to the head. But we're not looking to have a debate on whether fighting is good or bad or should be part of the game.\"\n\nCommunity members often become involved in the debate over banning fighting. In December 2006, a school board trustee in London, Ontario attended a London Knights game and was shocked by the fighting and by the crowd's positive reaction to it. This experience led him to organize an ongoing effort to ban fighting in the Ontario Hockey League, where the Knights compete, by attempting to gain the support of other school boards and by writing letters to OHL administrators. On the advice of its Medical Health Officer, the Middlesex-London Health board has supported recommendations to ban fighting across amateur hockey and to increase disciplinary measures to ensure deterrence.\n\nThe first known death directly related to a hockey fight occurred when Don Sanderson of the Whitby Dunlops, a top-tier senior amateur team in Ontario's Major League Hockey, died in January 2009, a month after sustaining a head injury during a fight: Sanderson's helmet came off during the fight, and when he fell to the ice, he hit his head. His death renewed calls to ban fighting among critics. In reaction, the league has stated that they are reviewing the players' use of helmets.\n\nFighters such as Bob Probert and Boogaard have been posthumously diagnosed with chronic traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative disease of the brain caused by repeated brain trauma. While the NHL took steps to limit head trauma from blindslide hits, it was criticized for doing nothing to reduce fighting, which consists of repeated deliberate blows to the head. It is unknown if Boogaard's death was mainly attributed from his repeated head trauma from fighting and hits or from a possible addiction to painkillers while simultaneously abusing alcohol. His brain has been sent to Boston University for further testing.\n\nBeginning in the 2016–17 season, the American Hockey League will impose a fighting major counter, similar to the National Basketball Association's unsportsmanlike technical foul counter and soccer's accumulated cards. A player who collects ten major penalties for fighting during the season will be suspended one game, and will be suspended one game for each fighting major for the next three penalties (the 11th, 12th, and 13th fighting majors). A player is suspended two games for his 14th and subsequent major penalty for fighting. If one player involved in the fight is charged with an instigator penalty, the opponent will not have the fighting major count towards suspension.\n\nThere are several informal rules governing fighting in ice hockey that players rarely discuss but take quite seriously. The most important aspect of this etiquette is that opposing enforcers must agree to a fight, usually via a verbal or physical exchange on the ice. This agreement helps both players avoid being given an instigator penalty, and helps keep unwilling participants out of fights.\n\nEnforcers typically only fight each other, with only the occasional spontaneous fight breaking out between one or two opponents who do not usually fight. There is a high degree of respect among enforcers as well; they will respect a rival who declines a fight because he is playing with injuries, a frequent occurrence, because enforcers consider winning a fight with an injured opponent to be an empty victory. This is also known as granting a \"free pass\". Enforcer Darren McCarty described fighters as being divided into \"heavyweights\" and \"light heavyweights\", and said that players in the former category \"end up dancing with some guys who could end (their) career with a single punch.\"\n\nLong-standing rivalries result in numerous rematches, especially if one of the enforcers has to decline an invitation to fight during a given game. This is one of the reasons that enforcers may fight at the beginning of a game, when nothing obvious has happened to agitate the opponents. On the other hand, it is bad etiquette to try to initiate a fight with an enforcer who is near the end of his shift, since the more rested player will have an obvious advantage.\n\nAnother important aspect of etiquette is simply fighting fairly and cleanly. Fairness is maintained by not wearing equipment that could injure the opposing fighter, such as face shields, gloves, or masks, and not assaulting referees or linesmen. Finally, whatever the outcome of the fight, etiquette dictates that players who choose to fight win and lose those fights gracefully. Otherwise, they risk losing the respect of their teammates and fans.\n\nSportsmanship is also an important aspect when it comes to fights. While an enforcer may start a fight in response to foul play, it is generally not acceptable to start a fight to retaliate against an opponent who scored fairly.\n\nFighting tactics are governed by several actual rules and enforcers will also adopt informal tactics particular to their style and personality. One tactic adopted by players is known as \"going for it\", in which the player puts his head down and just throws as many punches as he can, as fast as he can. In the process, that player takes as many punches as he delivers, although some of them are to the hard forehead. Fighters usually must keep one hand on their opponent's jersey since the ice surface makes maintaining balance very difficult. For this reason, the majority of a hockey fight consists of the players holding on with one hand and punching with the other.\n\nOther examples include Gordie Howe's tactic of holding the sweater of his opponent right around the armpit of his preferred punching arm so as to impede his movement. Probert, of the Detroit Red Wings and Chicago Blackhawks, was known to allow his opponents to punch until they showed signs of tiring, at which time he would take over and usually dominate the fight. Some consider long-time Buffalo Sabres enforcer Rob Ray to be the reason that hockey jerseys are now equipped with tie-down straps (\"fight straps\") that prevent their removal; he would always remove his jersey during fights so his opponents would have nothing to grab on to. This is commonly referred to as the \"Rob Ray Rule\".\n\nThroughout a game, the referee and linesmen have a role in preventing fights through the way they are managing the game—calling penalties, breaking up scuffles before they escalate, etc. Despite an official's best efforts, though, fights do occur and once they do, the referee and linesmen have a certain set of responsibilities to follow in order to safely break up the fight. None of these responsibilities are written in the NHL's rule book, but often are guided by \"common sense\", according to officials.\nIn a single fight situation the linesmen will communicate with each other as to which player they will take during the fight, clear out any sticks, gloves, or other equipment that has been dropped and wait for a safe time to enter the fight, which they will do together. If both players are still standing while the linesmen enter, the linesmen will approach from each side (never from behind), bring their arms over the combatants' arms and wrap them around, pushing downwards and breaking the players apart. If the players have fallen, the linesmen will approach from the side (never over the skates), getting in between the two players. One linesman will use his body to shield the player on the bottom from the other player while his partner will remove the top player from the fight. Most linesmen will allow a fight to run its course for their own safety, but will enter a fight regardless if one player has gained a significant advantage over his opponent. Once the players have been broken up, the linesmen then escort the players off the ice. During this time the referee will keep other players from entering the fight by sending them to a neutral area on the ice and then watching the fight and assessing any other penalties that occur.\n\nIn a multiple fight situation the linesmen will normally break up fights together, one fight at a time using the same procedures for a single fight. The linesmen will communicate with each other which fight to break up. In a multiple fight situation the referee will stand in an area of the ice where he/she can have a full view of all the players and will write down—on a pad of paper commonly known as a \"riot pad\"—the numbers of the players that are involved in the fights, watching for situations that warrant additional penalties, such as players removing opponents' helmets, players participating in a second fight, players leaving a bench to participate in a fight, or third players into a fight. The referee will not normally break up a fight unless the linesmen need assistance, or a fight is occurring where a player has gained a significant advantage over the other player, leading to concerns of significant injury.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22635285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22635285", "title": "Five wits", "text": "Five wits\n\nIn the time of William Shakespeare, there were commonly reckoned to be five wits and five senses. The five wits were sometimes taken to be synonymous with the five senses, but were otherwise also known and regarded as the five inward wits, distinguishing them from the five senses, which were the five \"outward\" wits.\n\nMuch of this conflation has resulted from changes in meaning. In Early Modern English, \"wit\" and \"sense\" overlapped in meaning. Both could mean a faculty of perception (although this sense dropped from the word \"wit\" during the 17th century). Thus \"five wits\" and \"five senses\" could describe both groups of wits/senses, the inward and the outward, although the common distinction, where it was made, was \"five wits\" for the inward and \"five senses\" for the outward.\n\nThe inward and outward wits are a product of many centuries of philosophical and psychological thought, over which the concepts gradually developed, that have their origins in the works of Aristotle. The concept of five outward wits came to medieval thinking from Classical philosophy, and found its most major expression in Christian devotional literature of the Middle Ages. The concept of five inward wits similarly came from Classical views on psychology.\n\nModern thinking is that there are more than five (outward) senses, and the idea that there are five (corresponding to the gross anatomical features — eyes, ears, nose, skin, and mouth — of many higher animals) does not stand up to scientific scrutiny. (For more on this, see Definition of sense.) But the idea of five senses/wits from Aristotelian, medieval, and 16th century thought still lingers so strongly in modern thinking that a sense beyond the natural ones is still called a \"sixth sense\".\n\nStephen Hawes' poem \"Graunde Amoure\" shows that the five (inward) wits were \"common wit\", \"imagination\", \"fantasy\", \"estimation\", and \"memory\". \"Common wit\" corresponds to Aristotle's concept of the \"sensus communis\", and \"estimation\" roughly corresponds to the modern notion of instinct.\n\nShakespeare himself refers to these wits several times, in \"Romeo and Juliet\" (Act I, scene 4 and Act II, scene iv), \"King Lear\" (Act III, scene iv), \"Much Ado About Nothing\" (Act I, scene i, 55), and \"Twelfth Night\" (Act IV, scene ii, 92). He distinguished between the five wits and the five senses, as can be seen from Sonnet 141.\n\nThe five wits are derived from the faculties of the soul that Aristotle describes in \"De Anima\".\n\nThe inward wits are part of medieval psychological thought. Geoffrey Chaucer translated Boethius' \"Consolation of Philosophy\" into Middle English. According to Chaucer's translation, \"ymaginacioun\" is the most basic internal faculty of perception. One can, with the imagination, call to mind the image of an object, either one directly experienced or a purely imaginary fabrication. Above that comes \"resoun\", by which such images of individual objects are related to the universal classes to which they belong. Above that comes \"intelligence\", which relates the universal classes to eternal \"symple forme\" (akin to a Platonic ideal). Humans are thus \"sensible\", \"ymaginable\", and \"reasonable\" (i.e. capable of sensing, imagination, and reason, as defined), all three of which feed into memory. (Intelligence is the sole remit of Divine Providence.)\n\nTo that quartet is also added \"phantasia\", a creative facet of imagination. A famous example of this is given by Augustine, who distinguishes between imagining Carthage, from memory (since he had been there), and imagining Alexandria, a pure fantasy image of a place that he had never been to.\n\nThe five (outward) senses, as described in Cursor Mundi, are \"hering\" (hearing), \"sight\", \"smelling\" (smell), \"fele\" (touch) and \"cheuing\" (taste). It relates them to the five Aristotelian elements (which Aristotle describes in \"De Caelo\"), with sight coming from fire, hearing from the upper air (the aether), smell from the lower air, taste from water, and touch from earth. This definition of the origins of human senses was an exceedingly popular one throughout the Middle Ages in Europe, not least because of its rough agreement with chapter 30 of the Second Book of Enoch.\n\nThe use of \"wit\" to describe these five senses is illustrated by \"The World and the Chylde\" (at right) and the following two quotations: \n\nThis definition of five senses has its origins in thinkers that came after Aristotle. Aristotle himself, in \"De Sensu et Sensibilibus\" defined \"four\" senses: sight (associated with water because the eye contains water), sound (corresponding to air), smell (corresponding to fire), and touch (corresponding to earth). Aristotle viewed taste as merely a specialized form of touch, which he in turn viewed as the primary sense (because all life-forms possess it). He rejected the earlier view by Democritus that there was in fact only one sense, touch.\n\nSimilarly, Plato, in \"Theaetetus\", has Socrates stating that there are innumerable senses without names, and that the senses with names include hearing, sight, smell, senses of heat and cold, pleasure, pain, desire, and fear.\n\nAulus Gellius defined five senses, saying \"Ex quinque his sensibus quose animantibus natura tribit, visu, auditu, gustu, tactu, odoratu, quas Graeci αισθητεισ appellant\" (\"Nature has given five senses to living beings, sight, hearing, taste, touch, and smell, called αισθητεισ by the Greeks\"). But there is no evidence that this topos existed in the thinking of the Anglo-Saxons, since Old English does not possess the requisite taxonomy, and has difficulty with translations of Latin texts that do.\n\nThe concept of there being five senses occurs in Christian sermons, devotional literature, and religious allegories of Middle English, although not all authors agreed exactly which senses the five were. Peter Damian in the 11th century correlated the five wounds that Jesus suffered during his crucifixion with the five senses, which was echoed by John Bromyard in \"Summa cantium\", although the latter only explicitly mentions hearing, touch, taste, and sight. By the 14th century, Richard Rolle was giving the formulation of five senses that is now familiar:\n\nChaucer had the same formulation:\n\n"}
{"id": "14055217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14055217", "title": "Florian Dombois", "text": "Florian Dombois\n\nFlorian Dombois (born 1966 in Berlin) is an artist who focuses on time, landforms, labilities, seismic and tectonic activity, as well as on their various representational and media formats.\n\nDombois studied geophysics and philosophy in Berlin, Kiel and Hawaii, and wrote his PhD in Amsterdam and Berlin. After that, he has developed a concept of \"Art as Research\" to challenge modernism in art and scientific modes of expression. His oeuvre includes spatial and sound installations, but also happenings and performances. 2003-2011 he was heading the Institute for Transdisciplinarity (Y), and was president of the research council at Berne University of the Arts. Since 2011 he is professor at Zurich University of the Arts. In 2010 he received the .\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4519053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4519053", "title": "Gender binary", "text": "Gender binary\n\nThe gender binary, also referred to as gender binarism (sometimes shortened to just binarism), is the classification of sex and gender into two distinct, opposite and disconnected forms of masculine and feminine. Gender binary is one general type of a gender system. Sometimes in this binary model, \"sex\", \"gender\" and \"sexuality\" are assumed by default to align. For example, when a male is born, gender binarism assumes the male will be masculine in appearance, character traits, and behavior, including having a heterosexual attraction to females.\n\nThe term \"gender binary\" describes the system in which a society splits its members into one of two sets of gender roles, gender identities and attributes based on the shape of genitalia. In the case of people born with organs that fall outside this system (intersex people), enforcement of the binary often includes coercive surgical gender reassignment. Gender roles are a major aspect of the gender binary. Gender roles shape and constrain people's life experiences, impacting aspects of self-expression ranging from clothing choices to occupation. Traditional gender roles continue to be enforced by the media, religion, mainstream education, political and other cultural and social systems. Major religions such as Islam and Catholicism, in particular, act as authorities for gender roles. Islam, for example, teaches that mothers are the primary care givers to their children and Catholics only allow cisgender men to serve as priests.\n\nWorldwide, there are many individuals and even several subcultures that can be considered exceptions to the gender binary or specific transgender identities. In addition to individuals whose bodies are naturally intersex, there are also specific social roles that involve aspects of both or neither of the binary genders. These include the Two-Spirited Native Americans and hijra of India. In the contemporary West, genderqueer people break the gender binary by refusing terms like \"male\" and \"female\". Transgender people have a unique place in relation to the gender binary. In some cases, their gender expression aligns with their sex. Attempting to conform to societal expectations for their gender, transsexual individuals may opt for surgery, hormones, or both, which can be difficult if the individual does not \"pass\" as cisgender.\n\nAccording to Thomas Keith in \"Masculinities in Contemporary American Culture\", the longstanding cultural assumption that male–female dualities are \"natural and immutable\" partly explains the persistence of systems of patriarchy and male privilege in modern society.\n\nSome feminist scholars have contested the existence of a clear gender binary. Judith Lorber explains the problem of failing to question dividing people into these two groups “even though they often find more significant within-group differences than between-group differences.” Lorber argues that this corroborates the fact that the gender binary is arbitrary and leads to false expectations of both men and women. Instead, there is growing support for the possibility of utilizing additional categories that compare people without \"prior assumptions about who is like whom\". By allowing for a more fluid approach to gender, people will be able to better identify themselves however they choose and scholarly research will find different similarities and differences.\n\nAnne Fausto-Sterling suggests a classification of 23 sexes and a move away from the socially constructed gender binary classification of male and female. In her paper \"The Five Sexes: Why Male and Female Are Not Enough\", she discusses the existence of intersex people, individuals possessing a combination of male and female sexual characteristics, who are seen as deviations from the norm and who frequently undergo coercive surgery at a very young age in order to maintain the two-gender system. The existence of these individuals challenges the standards of gender binaries and put into question society's role in constructing gender. Fausto-Sterling indicates that modern practitioners encourage the idea that gender is a cultural construct and concludes that, \"we are moving from an era of sexual dimorphism to one of variety beyond the number 2.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "13238864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13238864", "title": "Gender roles in post-communist Central and Eastern Europe", "text": "Gender roles in post-communist Central and Eastern Europe\n\nChanges in gender roles in Central and Eastern Europe after the fall of Communism have been an object of historical and sociological study.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1675534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1675534", "title": "Heckscher–Ohlin model", "text": "Heckscher–Ohlin model\n\nThe Heckscher–Ohlin model (H–O model) is a general equilibrium mathematical model of international trade, developed by Eli Heckscher and Bertil Ohlin at the Stockholm School of Economics. It builds on David Ricardo's theory of comparative advantage by predicting patterns of commerce and production based on the factor endowments of a trading region. The model essentially says that countries export products that use their abundant and cheap factors of production, and import products that use the countries' scarce factors.\n\nRelative endowments of the factors of production (land, labor, and capital) determine a country's comparative advantage. Countries have comparative advantages in those goods for which the required factors of production are relatively abundant locally. This is because the profitability of goods is determined by input costs. Goods that require inputs that are locally abundant are cheaper to produce than those goods that require inputs that are locally scarce.\n\nFor example, a country where capital and land are abundant but labor is scarce has a comparative advantage in goods that require lots of capital and land, but little labor—grains. If capital and land are abundant, their prices are low. As they are the main factors in the production of grain, the price of grain is also low—and thus attractive for both local consumption and export. Labor-intensive goods on the other hand are very expensive to produce since labor is scarce and its price is high. Therefore, the country is better off importing those goods.\n\nThe Ricardian model of comparative advantage has trade ultimately motivated by differences in labour productivity using different \"technologies\". Heckscher and Ohlin did not require production technology to vary between countries, so (in the interests of simplicity) the \"H–O model has identical production technology everywhere\". Ricardo considered a single factor of production (labour) and would not have been able to produce comparative advantage without technological differences between countries (all nations would become autarkic at various stages of growth, with no reason to trade with each other). The H–O model removed technology variations but introduced variable capital endowments, recreating endogenously the inter-country variation of labour productivity that Ricardo had imposed exogenously. With international variations in the capital endowment like infrastructure and goods requiring different factor \"proportions\", Ricardo's comparative advantage emerges as a profit-maximizing solution of capitalist's choices from \"within\" the model's equations. The decision that capital owners are faced with is between investments in differing production technologies; the H–O model assumes capital is privately held.\n\nBertil Ohlin first explained the theory in a book published in 1933. Ohlin wrote the book alone, but he credited Heckscher as co-developer of the model because of his earlier work on the problem, and because many of the ideas in the final model came from Ohlin's doctoral thesis, supervised by Heckscher.\n\n\"Interregional and International Trade\" itself was verbose, rather than being pared down to the mathematical, and appealed because of its new insights.\n\nThe original H–O model assumed that the only difference between countries was the relative abundances of labour and capital. The original Heckscher–Ohlin model contained two countries, and had two commodities that could be produced. Since there are two (homogeneous) factors of production this model is sometimes called the \"2×2×2 model\".\n\nThe model has \"variable factor proportions\" between countries—highly developed countries have a comparatively high capital-to-labor ratio compared to developing countries. This makes the developed country capital-abundant relative to the developing country, and the developing nation labor-abundant in relation to the developed country.\n\nWith this single difference, Ohlin was able to discuss the new mechanism of comparative advantage, using just two goods and two technologies to produce them. One technology would be a capital-intensive industry, the other a labor-intensive business—see \"assumptions\" below.\n\nThe model has been extended since the 1930s by many economists. These developments did not change the fundamental role of variable factor proportions in driving international trade, but added to the model various real-world considerations (such as tariffs) in the hopes of increasing the model's predictive power, or as a mathematical way of discussing macroeconomic policy options.\n\nNotable contributions came from Paul Samuelson, Ronald Jones, and Jaroslav Vanek, so that variations of the model are sometimes called the Heckscher-Ohlin-Samuelson model or the Heckscher-Ohlin-Vanek model in the neo-classical economics.\n\nThe original, 2×2×2 model was derived with restrictive assumptions, partly for the sake of mathematical simplicity. Some of these have been relaxed for the sake of development. These assumptions and developments are listed here.\n\nThis assumption means that producing the same output of either commodity \"could\" be done with the same level of capital and labour in either country. Actually, it would be inefficient to use the same balance in either country (because of the relative availability of either input factor) but, in principle this would be possible. Another way of saying this is that the per-capita productivity is the same in both countries in the same technology with identical amounts of capital.\n\nCountries have natural advantages in the production of various commodities in relation to one another, so this is an \"unrealistic\" simplification designed to highlight the effect of variable factors. This meant that the original H–O model produced an alternative explanation for free trade to Ricardo's, rather than a complementary one; in reality, both effects may occur due to differences in technology and factor abundances.\n\nIn addition to natural advantages in the production of one sort of output over another (wine vs. rice, say) the infrastructure, education, culture, and \"know-how\" of countries differ so dramatically that the idea of identical technologies is a theoretical notion. Ohlin said that the H–O model was a long-run model, and that the conditions of industrial production are \"everywhere the same\" in the long run.\n\nIn a simple model, both countries produce two commodities. Each commodity in turn is made using two factors of production. The production of each commodity requires input from both factors of production—capital (K) and labor (L). The technologies of each commodity is assumed to exhibit constant returns to scale (CRS). CRS technologies implies that when inputs of both capital and labor is multiplied by a factor of \"k\", the output also multiplies by a factor of \"k\". For example, if both capital and labor inputs are doubled, output of the commodities is doubled. In other terms the production function of both commodities is \"homogeneous of degree 1\".\n\nThe assumption of constant returns to scale CRS is useful because it exhibits a diminishing returns in a factor. Under constant returns to scale, doubling both capital and labor leads to a doubling of the output. Since outputs are increasing in both factors of production, doubling capital while holding labor constant leads to less than doubling of an output. Diminishing returns to capital and diminishing returns to labor are crucial to the Stolper–Samuelson theorem.\n\nThe CRS production functions must differ to make trade worthwhile in this model. For instance if the functions are Cobb–Douglas technologies the parameters applied to the inputs must vary. An example would be:\n\nWhere \"A\" is the output in arable production, \"F\" is the output in fish production, and \"K\", \"L\" are capital and labor in both cases.\n\nIn this example, the marginal return to an extra unit of capital is higher in the fishing industry, assuming units of fish (\"F\") and arable output (\"A\") have equal value. The more capital-abundant country may gain by developing its fishing fleet at the expense of its arable farms. Conversely, the workers available in the relatively labor-abundant country can be employed relatively more efficiently in arable farming.\n\nWithin countries, capital and labor can be reinvested and reemployed to produce different outputs. Similar to Ricardo's comparative advantage argument, this is assumed to happen without cost. If the two production technologies are the arable industry and the fishing industry it is assumed that farmers can shift to work as fishermen with no cost and vice versa.\n\nIt is further assumed that capital can shift easily into either technology, so that the industrial mix can change without adjustment costs between the two types of production. For instance, if the two industries are farming and fishing it is assumed that farms can be sold to pay for the construction of fishing boats with no transaction costs.\n\nThe theory by Avsar has offered much criticism to this.\n\nThe basic Heckscher–Ohlin model depends upon the relative availability of capital and labor differing internationally, but if capital can be freely invested anywhere, competition (for investment) makes relative abundances identical throughout the world. Essentially, free trade in capital provides a single worldwide investment pool.\n\nDifferences in labour abundance would not produce a difference in \"relative\" factor abundance (in relation to mobile capital) because the labour/capital ratio would be identical everywhere. (A large country would receive twice as much investment as a small one, for instance, maximizing capitalist's return on investment).\n\nAs capital controls are reduced, the modern world has begun to look a lot less like the world modelled by Heckscher and Ohlin. It has been argued that capital mobility undermines the case for free trade itself, see: Capital mobility and comparative advantage Free trade critique.\n\nCapital is mobile when:\n\nLike capital, labor movements are not permitted in the Heckscher–Ohlin world, since this would drive an equalization of relative abundances of the two production factors, just as in the case of capital immobility. This condition is more defensible as a description of the modern world than the assumption that capital is confined to a single country.\n\nThe 2x2x2 model originally placed no barriers to trade, had no tariffs, and no exchange controls (capital was immobile, but repatriation of foreign sales was costless). It was also free of transportation costs between the countries, or any other savings that would favor procuring a local supply.\n\nIf the two countries have separate currencies, this does not affect the model in any way—purchasing power parity applies. Since there are no transaction costs or currency issues the law of one price applies to both commodities, and consumers in either country pay exactly the same price for either good.\n\nIn Ohlin's day this assumption was a fairly neutral simplification, but economic changes and econometric research since the 1950s have shown that the local prices of goods tend to correlate with incomes when both are converted at money prices (though this is less true with traded commodities). See: Penn effect.\n\nNeither labor nor capital has the power to affect prices or factor rates by constraining supply; a state of perfect competition exists.\n\nThe results of this work has been the formulation of certain named conclusions arising from the assumptions inherent in the model.\n\nExports of a capital-abundant country come from capital-intensive industries, and labour-abundant countries import such goods, exporting labour-intensive goods in return. Competitive pressures within the H–O model produce this prediction fairly straightforwardly. Conveniently, this is an easily testable hypothesis.\n\nWhen the amount of one factor of production increases, the production of the good that uses that particular production factor intensively increases relative to the increase in the factor of production, as the H–O model assumes perfect competition where price is equal to the costs of factors of production. This theorem is useful in explaining the effects of immigration, emigration, and foreign capital investment. However, Rybczynski suggests that a fixed quantity of the two factors of production are required. This could be expanded to consider factor substitution, in which case the increase in production is more than proportional.\n\nRelative changes in output goods prices drive the relative prices of the factors used to produce them. If the world price of capital-intensive goods increases, it increases the relative rental rate and decreases the relative wage rate (the return on capital as against the return to labor). Also, if the price of labor-intensive goods increases, it increases the relative wage rate and decreases the relative rental rate.\n\nFree and competitive trade makes factor prices converge along with traded goods prices. The FPE theorem is the most significant conclusion of the H–O model, but also has found the least agreement with the economic evidence. Neither the rental return to capital, nor the wage rates seem to consistently converge between trading partners at different levels of development.\n\nThe \"Stolper–Samuelson theorem\" concerns nominal rents and wages. The Magnification effect on prices considers the effect of output-goods price-changes on the real return to capital and labor. This is done by dividing the nominal rates with a price index, but took thirty years to develop completely because of the theoretical complexity involved. \n\nHeckscher and Ohlin considered the Factor-Price Equalization theorem an econometric success because the large volume of international trade in the late 19th and early 20th centuries coincided with the convergence of commodity \"and\" factor prices worldwide.\n\nModern econometric estimates have shown the model to perform poorly, however, and adjustments have been suggested, most importantly the assumption that technology is not the same everywhere. This change would mean abandoning the pure H–O model.\n\nIn 1954 an econometric test by Wassily W. Leontief of the H–O model found that the United States, despite having a relative abundance of capital, tended to export labor-intensive goods and import capital-intensive goods. This problem became known as the Leontief paradox. Alternative trade models and various explanations for the paradox have emerged as a result of the paradox. One such trade model, the Linder hypothesis, suggests that goods are traded based on similar demand rather than differences in supply side factors (i.e., H–O's factor endowments).\n\nVarious attempts in the 1960s and 1970s have been made to \"solve\" the Leontief paradox and save the Heckscher–Ohlin Theory from failing. From the 1980s a new series of statistical tests had been tried. The new tests depended on Vanek's formula. It takes a simple form\nwhere formula_4 is the net trade of factor service vector for country formula_5, formula_6 the factor endowment vector for country formula_5, and formula_8 the country formula_5's share of the world consumption and formula_10 the world total endowment vector of factors. For many countries and many factors, it is possible to estimate the left hand sides and right hand sides independently. To put it another way, the left hand side tells the direction of factor service trade. Thus it is possible to ask how this system of equations holds. The results obtained by Bowen, Leamer and Sveiskaus (1987) was disastrous. They examined the cases of 12 factors and 27 countries for the year 1967. They found that the both sides of the equations had the same sign only for 61% of 324 cases. For the year 1983, the result was more disastrous. Both sides had the same sign only for 148 cases out of 297 cases (or the rate of correct predictions was 49.8%). The results of Bowen, Leamer, and Sveiskaus (1987) mean that the Hecksher–Ohlin–Vanek (HOV) theory has no predictive power concerning the direction of trade.\n\nThe critical assumption of the Heckscher–Ohlin model is that the two countries are identical, except for the difference in resource endowments. This also implies that the aggregate preferences are the same. The relative abundance in capital leads the capital-abundant country to produce the capital-intensive good cheaper than the labor-abundant country, and vice versa.\n\nInitially, when the countries are not trading:\n\nThe price of the capital-intensive good in the capital-abundant country will be bid down relative to the price of the good in the other country,\nthe price of the labor-intensive good in the labor-abundant country will be bid down relative to the price of the good in the other country.\nOnce trade is allowed, profit-seeking firms move their products to the markets that have (temporary) higher prices. As a result:\n\nthe capital-abundant country will export the capital-intensive good,\nthe labor-abundant country will export the labor-intensive good.\nThe Leontief paradox, presented by Wassily Leontief in 1951,[1] found that the U.S. (the most capital-abundant country in the world by any criterion) exported labor-intensive commodities and imported capital-intensive commodities, in apparent contradiction with the Heckscher–Ohlin theorem. However, if labor is separated into two distinct factors, skilled labor and unskilled labor, the Heckscher–Ohlin theorem is more accurate. The U.S. tends to export skilled-labor-intensive goods, and tends to import unskilled-labor-intensive goods.</ref>\n\nThe original Heckscher–Ohlin model and extended model such as the Vanek model performs poorly, as it is shown in the section \"Econometric testing of H–O model theorems\". Daniel Trefler and Susan Chun Zhu summarizes their paper that \"It is hard to believe that factor endowments theory [editor's note: in other words, Heckscher–Ohlin–Vanek Model] could offer an adequate explanation of international trade patterns\".\n\nA common understanding exists that in the national level HOV model fits well. In fact, Davis and others found that HOV model fitted extremely well with the regional data of Japan. Even when the HOV formula fits well, it does not mean that Heckscher–Ohlin theory is valid. Indeed, Heckscher–Ohlin theory claims that the state of factor endowments of each country (or each region) determines the production of each country (respectively of each region) but Bernstein and Weinstein found that the factor endowments have little predictive power. The factor-endowments-driven model (FED model) has errors much greater than the HOV model.\n\nThe factor equalization theorem (FET) applies only to the most advanced countries. The average wage in Japan was once as big as 70 times the wage in Vietnam. These wage discrepancies are not normally in the scope of the H–O model analysis.\n\nHeckscher–Ohlin theory is badly adapted to the analyze South-North trade problems. The assumptions of H–O are unrealistic with respect to North-South trade. Income differences between North and South is the concern that third world cares most. The factor price equalization theorem has not shown a sign of realization, even for a long time lag of a half century.\n\nThe standard Heckscher–Ohlin model assumes that the production functions are identical for all countries concerned. This means that all countries are in the same level of production and have the same technology, yet this is highly unrealistic. Technological gap between developed and developing countries is the main concern for the development of poor countries. The standard Heckscher–Ohlin model ignores all these vital factors when one wants to consider development of less developed countries in the international context. Even between developed countries, technology differs from industry to industry and firm to firm base. Indeed, this is the very basis of the competition between firms, inside the country and across the country. See the New Trade Theory in this article below.\n\nIn the modern production system, machines and apparatuses play an important role. What is referred to as capital is nothing other than these machines and apparatuses, together with materials and intermediate products consumed in the production process. Capital is the most important of factors, or one should say as important as labor. By the help of machines and apparatuses, the human being got a tremendous production capability. These machines, apparatuses and tools are classified as capital, or more precisely as durable capital, for one uses these items for many years. Their quantity is not changed at once. But the capital is not an endowment given by the nature. It is composed of goods manufactured in the production and often imported from foreign countries. In this sense, capital is internationally mobile and the result of past economic activity. The concept of capital as natural endowment distorts the real role of capital. Capital is a production power accumulated by the past investment.\n\nCapital goods take different forms. It may take the form of a machine-tool such as lathe, the form of a transfer-machine, which you can see under the belt-conveyors. It may take the form of oil or iron core. Despite these facts, capital in the Hechscher–Ohlin model is assumed as homogeneous and transferable to any form if necessary. This assumption is not only far from the reality, but also it includes logical flaw. Capital has a measure, just like anything has weight. How can an amount of various goods be measured?\n\nUsually by a system of prices. But prices depend on profit rate. In the Heckscher–Ohlin model, the rate of profit is determined according to how abundant capital is. If capital is scarce, it has a high rate of profit. If it is abundant, the profit rate is low. Here is a logical circle. Before the profit rate is determined, the amount of capital is not measured. This logical difficulty was the subject of academic controversy many years ago—sometimes called the Cambridge Capital Controversies. The conclusion of the controversies was that the concept of homogeneous capital was untenable. Heckscher–Ohlin theorists ignore all these stories without providing any explanation how capital is measured theoretically.\n\nUnemployment is the vital question in any trade conflict. Heckscher–Ohlin theory excludes unemployment by the very formulation of the model, in which all factors (including labour) are employed in the production.\n\nStandard Heckscher–Ohlin theory assumes the same production function for all countries. This implies that all firms are identical. The theoretical consequence is that there is no room for firms in the H–O model. By contrast, the New Trade Theory emphasizes that firms are heterogeneous.\n\nFrom the middle of the 19th century to 1930s, giant flow of immigration took place from Europe to North America. It is estimated that more than 60 million people crossed the Atlantic Ocean. Some politicians worried if these immigrants may cause various troubles (including cultural conflicts). For those politicians HO-theory provided a good reason “in support of both restrictions on labor migration and free trade in goods”.\n\nNew Trade theorists challenge the assumption of diminishing returns to scale, and some argue that using protectionist measures to build up a huge industrial base in certain industries would then allow those sectors to dominate the world market via a network effect.\n\nSee also Intra-industry trade.\n\nNew Trade Theory analyses individual enterprises and plants in an international competitive situation. The classical trade theory—i.e., the Heckscher–Ohlin model—has no enterprises in mind. The new trade theory treats enterprises in an industry as identical entities. New New Trade Theory gives focus on the diversity of enterprises. It is a fact that some enterprises engage in export and some that do not. Some enterprises invest directly in the foreign country in order to produce and sell in that country. Some other enterprises engage only in export. Why does this kind of differences occur? New Trade Theory tries to find out the reasons of these well observed facts.\n\nThe gravity model of international trade predicts bilateral trade flows based on the economic sizes of two nations, and the distance between them.\n\n\"See also\": \"The Ricardian Theory of International Trade\"\n\nRicardian theory is now extended in a general form to include not only labor, but also inputs of materials and intermediate goods. In this sense, it is much more general and plausible than the Heckscher–Ohlin model and escapes the logical problems such as capital as endowments, which is, in reality, produced goods.\n\nAs the theory permits different production processes to coexist in an industry of a country, the Ricardo–Sraffa theory can give a theoretical bases for the New Trade Theory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7047216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7047216", "title": "Hinduism in Uganda", "text": "Hinduism in Uganda\n\nHinduism in Uganda arrived when the colonial British Empire brought Hindus along with other Indian workers to its East African colonies in late 19th and early 20th centuries. The largest arrival of Hindu immigrants to Uganda, some educated and skilled but mostly poor and struggling from the famine-prone areas of Punjab and Gujarat, was to help construct the Kenya-Uganda Railway connecting landlocked parts of Uganda and Kenya with the port city of Mombasa. The largest departure of Hindus from Uganda occurred when General Idi Amin expelled them and seized their properties in 1972.\n\nIn addition to building major infrastructure projects, Hindus were a part of a global movement of workers to parts of British East Africa, aimed at helping the British government to establish services, retail markets and administrative support. The British invited Indian laborers as local skilled labor was unavailable. At the peak of the infrastructure projects in Uganda-Kenya, 32,000 people were brought in from India. Nearly 2,500 workers died because of difficult and unsafe working conditions during these projects. After the project ended, nearly 70% of the workers returned to India, while some 6,000 were absorbed in railway and other British operations such as retail and administration. Those who remained included Hindus, Muslims, Jains and Sikhs. Many from this ethnic group became financially successful.\n\nAfter colonialism ended, Hindus (along with Jains and Sikhs) were discriminated against in East Africa including Uganda. This was a part of the policies of various East African governments in their promotion of Africanization based on laws and policies under which commercial and professional sectors of the economy had to be owned by indigenous Africans. The Hindus, along with Jains, Sikhs, Jews and other religious groups, were affected during this period of xenophobic targeting of Asians and Europeans by African leaders.\n\nWhen General Idi Amin came to power by overthrowing an elected government in Uganda, he adopted a policy of religious and ethnic cleansing against people of Asian religions. Himself a Muslim, he announced that he had a dream, where \"Allah told him that the Asians, exploiters who did not want to integrate with the Africans, had to go\". In 1972, he selectively expelled the Hindus along with other Asians from Uganda, and seized their properties. Most of those expelled were second or third generation Hindus, many with dual Ugandan and British citizenship. While he expelled Hindus and people of other religions with origins in India, Idi Amin did not expel Christians of British or French origins living in Uganda. \n\nAccording to Kim Knott, professor of Religious and Secular Studies at Lancaster University, there were 65,000 Hindus in Uganda in 1970, but all were expelled by Idi Amin. The expelled Hindus mass migrated to other countries during this period, particularly the United Kingdom (28,000 refugees), India (15,000 refugees), Canada (8,000 refugees), the United States (1,500 refugees) and in smaller numbers to other countries such as Australia. The expulsion removed most of Uganda's \"industrialists, traders, artisans and civil servants\", states Christopher Senyonjo, and their properties were re-allocated to civilians and Ugandan Army officials who supported Idi Amin. Uganda faced a shortage of skilled professionals such as doctors, bankers, nurses and teachers. It triggered a financial crisis and a collapse of businesses, including cement and sugar production, causing long-term economic devastation in Uganda.\n\nTwenty years after the Idi Amin expulsion, Uganda reversed its laws selectively targeting Hindus and other Indian religions. This policy, offered in cooperation with the World Bank, included a return of properties seized by Idi Amin's government, such as empty and unused factories, back to the families if they returned and recreated employment.\n\nHindus are a tiny minority in the total Ugandan population of about 27 million. The official demographics lists Christians and Muslims separately, but includes Hindus, Jains, Sikhs, Buddhists and traditional African religions as others. Approximately 65% of the South Asians living in Uganda are Hindus. There is a Swaminarayan temple in Kampala.\n\n"}
{"id": "47963327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47963327", "title": "Hydropower Sustainability Assessment Protocol", "text": "Hydropower Sustainability Assessment Protocol\n\nThe Hydropower Sustainability Assessment Protocol is a tool that promotes and guides more sustainable hydropower projects. It is a methodology used to measure the performance of a hydropower project across more than twenty environmental, social, technical and economic topics.\n\nHydropower projects can have both a positive and a negative environmental and social impact. This is because the construction of a dam, power plant and reservoir creates certain social and physical changes in the area it effects. The protocol provides a common language to allow governments, civil society, financial institutions and the hydropower sector to talk about and evaluate sustainability issues.\n\nAssessments are based on objective evidence and the results are presented in a standardised way, to show how new projects are being developed or how existing facilities are performing.\n\nIt has been designed to work on projects and facilities anywhere in the world.\n\nThe Protocol is used by different hydropower stakeholders for different reasons.\n\nPopular uses include: \n\nCrédit Agricole, Societe Generale, Standard Chartered, Citi, and UBS now refer to the Protocol in their sector guidance.\n\nThe World Bank has analysed the value of the Protocol for use by their clients, concluding that it is a useful tool for guiding the development of sustainable hydropower in developing countries.\n\nThe International Institute for Environment and Development has reviewed social and environmental safeguards for large dam projects, concluding that the Protocol currently offers the best available ‘measuring stick’ for the World Commission on Dams provisions.\n\nA Protocol assessment takes place over a one-week period at the project site and provides a rapid sustainability check.\n\nA Protocol assessment does not replace an environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA), which takes place over a much longer period of time as a mandatory regulatory requirement. A Protocol assessment will, amongst other things, check the scope and quality of the ESIA which has been done.\n\nTo ensure high quality, all commercial use of the Protocol is carried out by accredited assessors. These assessors have significant experience of the hydropower sector or relevant sustainability issues, and have passed a rigorous accreditation course.\n\nThe Protocol can be used at any stage of hydropower development, from the early planning stages through to operation. Each project stage is assessed using a different tool: \n\nThe Protocol covers a range of topics that need to be understood to assess the overall sustainability of a hydropower project.\n\nThe name and range of topics changes slightly at different project stages.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Protocol also includes ‘cross-cutting issues’ such as climate change, gender, and human rights, which feature in multiple topics.\n\nFor each sustainability topic, performance is assessed against a range of criteria at two levels: basic good practice and proven best practice.\n\nA multi-stakeholder forum developed the Protocol between 2008 and 2010.\n\nThe following key group were represented: social and environmental NGOs, governments of developed and developing countries, financial institutions, development banks, and the hydropower industry.\n\nThe forum jointly reviewed, enhanced and built consensus on what a sustainable hydropower project should look like.\n\nPolicies taken into account included the World Commission on Dams’ Criteria and Guidelines, World Bank Safeguard Policies, IFC Performance Standards, and the Equator Principles.\n\nA draft of the Protocol was released in 2009, which was trialled in 16 countries across six continents and subjected to further consultation involving 1,933 individual stakeholders from 28 countries.\n\nThe final version was produced in 2010.\n\nThe diversity of the forum was important to ensure that the Protocol became globally applicable and universally accepted. Diversity also ensured that the multiple perspectives and stakeholder interests surrounding a hydropower project were incorporated into the document.\n\nThe Protocol is governed by a multi-stakeholder body, the Hydropower Sustainability Assessment Council (HSA Council).\n\nThe mission of the Council is to ensure multi-stakeholder input and confidence in the Protocol's content and application.\n\nAll individuals and organisations engaged in hydropower are welcome and encouraged to join the Council. This approach to governance ensures that all stakeholder voices are heard in the shaping of the use of the Protocol and its future development.\n\nThe Council consists of a series of Chambers, each representing a different segment of hydropower stakeholders. Each chamber elects a chair and alternate chair for a two-year term. The chamber chairs come together regularly to form the decision-making Protocol Governance Committee. The current Governance Committee (elected May 2015) is shown in the table below.\n"}
{"id": "39250763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39250763", "title": "India Is", "text": "India Is\n\nIndia Is is a series of photography and video challenges organized by the Public Diplomacy Division (PDD) of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), Government of India. Both of the contests invite photo and video entries, respectively, on given themes.\n\nThe first edition of the India Is Global Video challenge was launched in October 2011, during the tenure of the then Under Secretary of the Public Diplomacy Division Abhay Kumar and Joint Secretary Navdeep Suri.; which was followed by the next edition in November 2012. The first edition of the photograph challenge was launched in October 2012.\n\nThe aim of the Challenges is to highlight the 'soft power' prevalent in India, to better understand India’s influence abroad and the perception others share about India.\n\nLaunched on 1 October 2011 and closed on 31 December 2011, the first Video Challenge allowed each participant to submit one video per theme, each 3 minutes long. The themes for the videos to be submitted were:\n\n\nThe first edition of video challenge received 245 qualifying videos with participants from 40 countries including Peru, Romania, Armenia, Belarus, Serbia, Palestine, Moldova, Nicaragua, Lithuania, Chile, Panama, Colombia, Mexico, Ethiopia and Turkey. 123 of the 245 qualifying videos were from outside of India, the highest response being from Europe and North America.\n\nPartners for the India Is Global Video Challenge 2011 include the Public Diplomacy Division, Incredible India, AZB and Partners, Mobile Film Works and Skarma.\n\nThe ambassadors for India Is Global Video Challenge 2011 were Dr. Shashi Tharoor and Shekhar Kapur.<ref name=\"linkingface.com/video/172/\">Dr. Shashi Tharoor on 'India Is' Global Video Challenge 2011, linkingface.com, 24 February 2013</ref><ref name=\"linkingface.com/video/173/\">Shekhar Kapur on New Age Filmmaking – 'India Is' Global Video Challenge 2011, linkingface.com, 24 February 2013</ref>\n\nThe jury members for the India Is Global Video Challenge 2011 were Karl Bardosh, Gargi Sen, Sanjoy K Roy, Priya Jaikumar, Rahul Sahgal and Sandeep Chatterjee.\n\nThe winners of the India Is Global Video Challenge 2011 were:\n\n\nThe second edition of the Video Challenge was launched on 9 November 2012 by Riva Ganguly Das, Joint Secretary, PDD and Nikesh Arora, Chief Business Officer and Senior Vice-President, of Google Inc. The competition closed for entries on 11 March 2013. For this edition India Is partnered with filmmaker Anurag Kashyap along with his team of directors to produce five short films under the three categories – India Is Incredible, India Is Unforgettable and India Is Wherever You Are.\n\nThe Challenge received a total of 329 participating videos from over 20 countries including India, United Kingdom, United States of America, Hong Kong, New Zealand, Portugal, Japan, Singapore, Spain, Italy, Germany, France, Malaysia, Mexico, Hungary, Slovakia, Romania, China, Austria and Australia.\n\nPartners for the India Is Global Video Challenge 2012 included Public Diplomacy Division, YouTube India, Incredible India, Conde Nast Traveller India, Taj Holidays, Avid Learning, Pocket Films and Skarma.\n\nAnurag Kashyap and Professor Karl Bardosh were the brand ambassadors for the second edition.\n\nThe panel of jury members included Uma da Cunha, Selvaggia Velo, Oliver Mahn, Sanjay Suri, Sudhir Mishra and Nagesh Kukunoor.\n\nTheme: India Is Incredible:\n\nTheme: India Is Wherever You Are:\n\nTheme: India Is Unforgettable, It Stays With You:\n\nPeople's Choice Award (Public voting): Home in a Room by Srinath\n\nThe first Photography Challenge was launched on 5 October 2012 and ended on 30 November 2012.<ref name=\"photographycompetitions.net/2012\">The India Is Global Photography Challenge 2012, photographycompetitions.net</ref>\n\nThe Photography Challenge received 2,777 photographs from 20 countries including India, Bahrain, Pakistan, The United Kingdom, The United States of America, Brazil, Australia, Japan, Italy, Argentina, Poland, Saudi Arabia, China, Hong Kong, Sweden, Malaysia, Albania, Singapore, Greece and Slovakia.\n\nThe partners were Public Diplomacy Division, Google India, Incredible India, Conde Nast Traveller India, Taj Holidays, Avid Learning and Skarma.\n\nThe panel of jurists for the Global Photography Challenge 2012 included Divia Thani Daswani, Alka Pandey, Brinda Miller, Divya Thakur, Matthieu Foss, Agnello Dias and Alok Nanda.\n\nTheme: India Is Unforgettable, It Stays With You: \n\nTheme: India Is Incredible:\n\nTheme: India Is Wherever You Are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34796035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34796035", "title": "Infinite compositions of analytic functions", "text": "Infinite compositions of analytic functions\n\nIn mathematics, infinite compositions of analytic functions (ICAF) offer alternative formulations of analytic continued fractions, series, products and other infinite expansions, and the theory evolving from such compositions may shed light on the convergence/divergence of these expansions. Some functions can actually be expanded directly as infinite compositions. In addition, it is possible to use ICAF to evaluate solutions of fixed point equations involving infinite expansions. Complex dynamics offers another venue for iteration of systems of functions rather than a single function. For infinite compositions of a \"single function\" see Iterated function. For compositions of a finite number of functions, useful in fractal theory, see Iterated function system. \n\nAlthough the title of this article specifies analytic functions, there are results for more general functions of a complex variable as well.\nThere are several notations describing infinite compositions, including the following:\n\nForward compositions: \n\nBackward compositions: \n\nIn each case convergence is interpreted as the existence of the following limits:\n\nFor convenience, set and .\n\nOne may also write formula_2 and\nformula_3\n\nMany results can be considered extensions of the following result:\n\nLet {\"f\"} be a sequence of functions analytic on a simply-connected domain \"S\". Suppose there exists a compact set Ω ⊂ \"S\" such that for each \"n\", \"f\"(\"S\") ⊂ Ω.\n\nAdditional theory resulting from investigations based on these two theorems, particularly Forward Compositions Theorem, include location analysis for the limits obtained here . For a different approach to Backward Compositions Theorem, see .\n\nRegarding Backward Compositions Theorem, the example \"f\"(\"z\") = 1/2 and \"f\"(\"z\") = −1/2 for \"S\" = {\"z\" : |\"z\"| < 1} demonstrates the inadequacy of simply requiring contraction into a compact subset, like Forward Compositions Theorem.\n\nFor functions not necessarily analytic the Lipschitz condition suffices:\n\nResults involving entire functions include the following, as examples. Set\n\nThen the following results hold:\n\nAdditional elementary results include:\n\nExample GF1: formula_42\n\nExample GF2: formula_43\n\nResults for compositions of linear fractional (Möbius) transformations include the following, as examples:\n\nIn (a), the sequence converges everywhere in the extended plane. In (b), the sequence converges either everywhere, and to the same value everywhere except at one point, or it converges at only two points. Case (c) can occur with every possible set of convergence.\n\nThe value of the infinite continued fraction\n\nmay be expressed as the limit of the sequence {\"F\"(0)} where\n\nAs a simple example, a well-known result (Worpitsky Circle*) follows from an application of Theorem (A):\n\nConsider the continued fraction\n\nwith\n\nStipulate that |ζ| < 1 and |\"z\"| < \"R\" < 1. Then for 0 < \"r\" < 1,\n\nExample. formula_51 formula_52\n\nExample. A \"fixed-point continued fraction form\" (a single variable).\n\nExamples illustrating the conversion of a function directly into a composition follow:\n\nExample 1. Suppose formula_55 is an entire function satisfying the following conditions:\nThen \n\nExample 2. \n\nExample 3. \n\nExample 4.\n\nTheorem (B) can be applied to determine the fixed-points of functions defined by infinite expansions or certain integrals. The following examples illustrate the process:\n\nExample FP1. For |ζ| ≤ 1 let\n\nTo find α = \"G\"(α), first we define:\n\nThen calculate formula_63 with ζ = 1, which gives: α = 0.087118118... to ten decimal places after ten iterations.\n\nConsider a time interval, normalized to \"I\" = [0, 1]. ICAFs can be constructed to describe continuous motion of a point, \"z\", over the interval, but in such a way that at each \"instant\" the motion is virtually zero (see Zeno's Arrow): For the interval divided into n equal subintervals, 1 ≤ \"k\" ≤ \"n\" set formula_67 analytic or simply continuous – in a domain \"S\", such that\n\nand formula_69.\n\nimplies\n\nwhere the integral is well-defined if formula_72 has a closed-form solution \"z\"(\"t\"). Then\n\nOtherwise, the integrand is poorly defined although the value of the integral is easily computed. In this case one might call the integral a \"virtual\" integral.\n\nExample. formula_74\n\nExample. Let:\n\nNext, set formula_76 and \"T\"(\"z\") = \"T\"(\"z\"). Let\n\nwhen that limit exists. The sequence {\"T\"(\"z\")} defines contours γ = γ(\"c\", \"z\") that follow the flow of the vector field \"f\"(\"z\"). If there exists an attractive fixed point α, meaning |\"f\"(\"z\") − α| ≤ ρ|\"z\" − α| for 0 ≤ ρ < 1, then \"T\"(\"z\") → \"T\"(\"z\") ≡ α along γ = γ(\"c\", \"z\"), provided (for example) formula_78. If \"c\" ≡ \"c\" > 0, then \"T\"(\"z\") → \"T\"(\"z\"), a point on the contour γ = γ(\"c\", \"z\"). It is easily seen that\n\nand\n\nwhen these limits exist.\n\nThese concepts are marginally related to \"active contour theory\" in image processing, and are simple generalizations of the Euler method\n\nThe series defined recursively by \"f\"(\"z\") = \"z\" + \"g\"(\"z\") have the property that the nth term is predicated on the sum of the first \"n\" − 1 terms. In order to employ theorem (GF3) it is necessary to show boundedness in the following sense: If each \"f\" is defined for |\"z\"| < \"M\" then |\"G\"(\"z\")| < \"M\" must follow before |\"f\"(\"z\") − \"z\"| = |\"g\"(\"z\")| ≤ \"Cβ\" is defined for iterative purposes. This is because formula_81 occurs throughout the expansion. The restriction\n\nserves this purpose. Then \"G\"(\"z\") → \"G\"(\"z\") uniformly on the restricted domain.\n\nExample (S1). Set \nand \"M\" = ρ. Then \"R\" = ρ − (π/6) > 0. Then, if formula_84, \"z\" in \"S\" implies |\"G\"(\"z\")| < \"M\" and theorem (GF3) applies, so that\n\nconverges absolutely, hence is convergent.\n\nExample (S2): formula_86\nThe product defined recursively by\n\nhas the appearance\n\nIn order to apply Theorem GF3 it is required that:\n\nOnce again, a boundedness condition must support\n\nIf one knows \"Cβ\" in advance, the following will suffice:\n\nThen \"G\"(\"z\") → \"G\"(\"z\") uniformly on the restricted domain.\n\nExample (P1). Suppose formula_92 with formula_93 observing after a few preliminary computations, that |\"z\"| ≤ 1/4 implies |\"G\"(\"z\")| < 0.27. Then\n\nand\n\nconverges uniformly.\n\nExample (P2).\n\nExample (CF1): A self-generating continued fraction.\n\nExample (CF2): Best described as a self-generating reverse Euler continued fraction.\n"}
{"id": "13777011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13777011", "title": "Information flow diagram", "text": "Information flow diagram\n\nAn information flow diagram (IFD) is a diagram that shows how information is communicated (or \"flows\") from a \"source\" to a \"receiver\" or \"target\" (e.g. A→C), through some medium. The medium acts as a bridge, a means of transmitting the information. Examples of media include word of mouth, radio, email, etc. The concept of IFD was initially used in radio transmission. The diagrammed system may also include feedback, a reply or response to the signal that was given out. The return paths can be two-way or bi-directional: information can flow back and forth.\n\nAn IFD can be used to model the information flow throughout an organisation. An IFD shows the relationship between internal information flows within an organisation and external information flows between organisations. It also shows the relationship between the internal departments and sub-systems.\n\nAn IFD usually uses \"blobs\" to decompose the system and sub-systems into elemental parts. Lines then indicate how the information travels from one system to another. IFDs are used in businesses, government agencies, television and cinematic processes.\n\nIFDs are often confused with data flow diagrams (DFDs). IFDs show information as sources, destination and flows. DFDs show processes where inputs are transformed into outputs. Databases are also present in DFDs to show where data is held within the systems. In DFDs information destinations are called \"sinks\".\n\nPeter Checkland, a British management scientist, described information flows between the different elements that compose various systems. He also defined a system as a \"community situated within an environment\".\n\nThe main purpose of an information flow diagram is so that sources that send and receive information can be displayed neatly and analysed. This allows viewers to see the forwarding of information and the analysis of different situations. The creation of an IFD is, in most cases, the first step in information analysis.\n\nIFDs are behaviour diagrams that show the exchange of data between systems. They are also used to describe the circulation of information within systems.\n\nInformation that moves along the diagram is represented as either information items or by concrete classifiers. IFDs are used to:\n\nConstruction of an information flow diagram requires the knowledge of different information sources and the connections between them. The sources and targets of information flow are one of the following: actor, use case, node, artefact, class, component, port, property, interface, package, activity node, activity partition, or instance specification.\n\nA dashed line with an open arrow pointing away from the source to the target is used to represent information flow. The keyword \"flow\" may be written above or below the dashed line. Information items represent the abstraction of data and act as information flow connectors, representing the flow of transfer of information from source to target. Information items do not provide any detail of the information they transfer as they are featureless.\n\nDiagramming software can be used to create IFDs. Examples of diagramming software include Microsoft Visio for Windows or OmniGraffle for OS X.\n\nSuccessful IFDs should highlight gaps that need improvement, display inefficiencies in information, uncover and highlight risks to information such as data confidentiality and Insecure systems, display unsuitable mediums which are being used, and they should also provide clarity about who should receive which information when, where and how.\n\nA customer needs to make an order. Customer first posts the order to the sales department. Customer's order details are then entered into a centralised database which can only be accessed by the warehouse (to make up the order). The goods are handed to the dispatch department with a delivery note attached to them for delivery. On delivery, the customer receives the goods and the delivery note (which are handled by a member of the dispatch department). Sales department creates an invoice which is posted to the customer. The accounts department then assesses a copy of the invoice from the centralised database. Customer is then required to post the payment to the accounts department.\n\nLimitations of information flow diagrams may include:\n\n"}
{"id": "12708841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12708841", "title": "Leonel Moura", "text": "Leonel Moura\n\nLeonel Moura (born December 26, 1948 in Lisbon, Portugal) is a conceptual artist whose work shifted in the late 1990s from photo based work to Artificial Intelligence and Robotic art. Since then he has produced several Painting Robots and the Robotarium, a zoo for robots. RAP (Robotic Action Painter) (2006) is a robot that makes drawings based on emergence and stigmergy, decides when the work is ready, and signs it, is displayed as a permanent installation at the American Museum of Natural History in New York.\n\nArtSbot (Art Swarm Robots), 2003, comprise several small autonomous robots, called Mbots, each equipped with color detection sensors, obstacle avoidance sensors, a microcontroller and actuators, for locomotion and pen manipulation. Mbots have two distinct behaviors: the random behavior that initializes the process by activating a pen, based on a small probability (usually 2/256), whenever the color sensors read white; and the positive feed-back behavior that reinforces the color detected by the sensors, activating the corresponding pen (since there are two pens, the color circle is split into two ranges - 'warm' and 'cold'). With this process the collective set of robots generate compositions where from a random background some color clusters emerge.\n\nRAP (Robotic Action Painter), 2006, work alone but based on the same principles of emergence and stigmergy. Some improvements however produce rather distinct compositions from those of the ArtSbot swarm. Some of the new skills are: to determine the length and shape of each trace, the capacity to decide, in a non-linear mode, the moment to stop and the ability to sign. Additionally RAP works with six color pens and the RGB sensors are disposed in a grid of 3x3 which permits to detect local patterns and not only colors.\n\nISU, 2006, is very similar to RAP but is able to write letters and build words. In this fashion it makes compositions that resemble some of the Lettrist works from the 1950s and automatism.\nRobotarium X is a large-scale steel glass construction lodging forty-five different robots, most powered by photovoltaic energy and fully autonomous.\n\nRUR, the birth of the robot\n\nIn 2010 Leonel Moura creates a new version of the theatre play RUR with robots.<br>\nR.U.R., Rossum’s Universal Robots is a classic playwright written by Karel Capek in the 1920s in which the word ROBOT was coined. Men and robots clash resulting in the extermination of mankind and the emergence of robots as a new dominant species. The play was always staged with human actor’s transvestite as robots. Moura’s new version displays, for the first time, real robots interacting on stage with human actors.<br>\nRUR, the birth of the robot, debuted in August 2010 at the Itáu Cultural, São Paulo, Brazil.\n\nMoura, Leonel et al. (2009) \"INSIDE [art and science]\", Lisbon, LxXL edition \nMoura, Leonel (2009) \"Robot Poetry\", Coimbra, Water Museum edition\nMoura, Leonel (2009) \"RAP (Robotic Action Painter)\", Tavira, Tavira Museum Edition\nMoura, Leonel (2007) \"Robotarium\", Lisbon, LxXL edition\nMoura, Leonel et al. (2005) \"Bioart - A new Kind of Art\", Lisbon, Edition: Prates Gallery\nMoura, Leonel and Pereira, Henrique Garcia (2004) Man + Robots: Symbiotic Art, Villeurbanne, Institut d'Art Contemporain, Lyon/Villeurbanne\nMoura, Leonel (2003) \"Formigas, Vagabundos e Anarquia (Portuguese)\", Lisbon, Edition: AAAL, Out-of-print\nMoura, Leonel et al. (2002) Architopia, Cascais. Utopia Biennial\nMoura, Leonel (1995) Impossibilité (French), Villeurbanne, Edition: Institut d'Art Contemporain, Lyon/Villeurbanne\n\n\nExternal links\n"}
{"id": "2190718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2190718", "title": "Mindstream", "text": "Mindstream\n\nMindstream (\"citta-santāna\") in Buddhist philosophy is the moment-to-moment continuum (Sanskrit: \"saṃtāna\") of sense impressions and mental phenomena, which is also described as continuing from one life to another.\n\n\"\" (Sanskrit), literally \"the stream of mind\", is the stream of succeeding moments of mind or awareness. It provides a continuity of the personality in the absence of a permanently abiding \"self\" (ātman), which Buddhism denies. The mindstream provides a continuity from one life to another, akin to the flame of a candle which may be passed from one candle to another: \nAccording to Waldron, \nThe vāsanās (karmic imprints) provide the karmic continuity between lives and between moments. According to Lusthaus, these \"vasanas\" determine how one \n\n\"Citta\" holds the semantic field of \"that which is conscious\", \"the act of mental apprehension known as ordinary consciousness\", \"the conventional and relative mind/heart\". \"Citta\" has two aspects: \"...Its two aspects are attending to and collecting of impressions or traces (Sanskrit: \"vāsanā\") cf. \"vijñāna\".\" \"\" or \"santāna\" (Sanskrit) holds the semantic field of \"eternal\", \"continuum\", \"a series of momentary events\" or \"life-stream\".\n\n\"Citta\" is often rendered as \"sems\" in Tibetan and saṃtāna corresponds to \"rgyud\", which holds the semantic field of \"continuum\", \"stream\", and \"thread\"-- is therefore rendered \"sems rgyud.\" \"Rgyud\" is the term that Tibetan translators (Tibetan: \"lotsawa\") employed to render the Sanskrit term \"tantra\".\n\n\"Thugs-rgyud\" is a synonym for \"sems rgyud\"--\"Thugs\" holds the semantic field: \"Buddha-mind\", \"(enlightened) mind\", \"mind\", \"soul\", \"spirit\", \"purpose\", \"intention\", \"unbiased perspective\", \"spirituality\", \"responsiveness\", \"spiritual significance\", \"awareness\", \"primordial (state, experience)\", \"enlightened mind\", \"heart\", \"breast\", \"feelings\" and is sometimes a homonym of \"citta\" (Sanskrit). \"Thugs-rgyud\" holds the semantic field \"wisdom\", \"transmission\", \"heart-mind continuum\", \"mind\", \"[continuum/ stream of mind]\" and \"nature of mind.\"\n\nThe Chinese equivalent of Sanskrit \"citta-saṃtāna\" and Tibetan \"sems-kyi rgyud\" (\"mindstream\") is \"xin xiangxu\" (). According to the \"Digital Dictionary of Buddhism\", \"xīn xiāngxù\" means \"continuance of the mental stream\" (from Sanskrit \"citta-saṃtāna\" or \"citta-saṃtati\"), contrasted with \"wú xiàngxù\" 無相續 \"no continuity of the mental stream\" (from \"asaṃtāna\" or \"asaṃdhi\") and \"shì xiāngxù\" 識相續 \"stream of consciousness\" (from \"vijñāna-saṃtāna\").\n\nThis compound combines \"xin\" \"heart; mind; thought; conscience; core\" and \"xiangxu\" \"succeed each other\", with \"xiang\" \"each other; one another; mutual; reciprocal\" and \"xu\" or \"continue; carry on; succeed\". Thus it means \"thoughts succeeding each other\".\n\n\"Xin xiangxu\" is pronounced \"sim sangsok\" in Korean and \"shin sōzoku\" in Japanese.\n\nThe notion of \"citta-santāna\" developed in later Yogacara-thought, where \"citta-santāna\" replaced the notion of ālayavijñāna, the store-house consciousness in which the karmic seeds were stored. It is not a \"permanent, unchanging, transmigrating entity\", like the atman, but a series of momentary consciousnesses.\n\nLusthaus describes the development and doctrinal relationships of the store consciousness (\"ālaya-vijñāna\") and Buddha nature (\"tathāgatagarbha\") in Yogācāra. To avoid reification of the \"ālaya-vijñāna\",\nDharmakīrti (fl. 7th century) wrote a treatise on the nature of the mind stream in his \"Substantiation of Other mind streams\" (\"Saṃtãnãntarasiddhi\"). According to Dharmakirti the mind stream was beginningless temporal sequence.\n\nThe notion of mind stream was further developed in Vajrayāna (tantric Buddhism), where \"mind stream\" (\"sems-rgyud\") may be understood as a stream of succeeding moments, within a lifetime, but also in-between lifetimes. The 14th Dalai Lama holds it to be a continuum of consciousness, extending over succeeding lifetimes, though without a self or soul.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1179049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1179049", "title": "National Woman's Party", "text": "National Woman's Party\n\nThe National Woman's Party (NWP) is an American women's political organization formed in 1916 to fight for women's suffrage. After achieving this goal with the 1920 adoption of the Nineteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, the NWP advocated for other issues including the Equal Rights Amendment, which is still seeking ratification today. The most prominent leader of the National Woman's Party was Alice Paul.\n\nThe National Woman's Party was an outgrowth of the Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage, which had been formed in 1913 by Alice Paul and Lucy Burns to fight for women's suffrage. The National Woman's Party broke from the much larger National American Woman Suffrage Association, which was focused on attempting to gain women's suffrage at the state level. The NWP prioritized the passage of a constitutional amendment ensuring women's suffrage throughout the United States.\n\nAlice Paul was closely linked to England’s Women's Suffrage Political Union (WSPU), organized by Emmeline Pankhurst. While a college student in England, Paul became involved with the Pankhursts and their English suffrage campaign. During this time Alice Paul met Lucy Burns, who would go on and be a co-founder of the NWP. Although Paul was closely tied to the militant suffrage campaign in England, when she left to pursue suffrage in the United States, instead Paul pioneered civil disobedience in the United States. For example, members of the WSPU heckled members of parliament, spit on police officers, and committed arson.\n\nWhile the British suffragettes stopped their protests in 1914 and supported the British war effort, Paul continued her struggle for women's equality and organized picketing of a wartime time president to maintain attention to the lack of enfranchisement for women.  Members of the NWP argued it was hypocritical for the United States to fight a war for democracy in Europe while denying its benefits to half of the US population. Similar arguments were being made in Europe, where most of the allied nations of Europe had enfranchised some women or soon would.\n\nAfter their experience with militant suffrage work in Great Britain, Alice Paul and Lucy Burns reunited in the United States in 1910. The two women originally were appointed to the Congressional Committee of the National American Woman Suffrage Association (NAWSA). In March 1913, the two women organized the first national suffrageparade of 5,000–8,000 women (by differing estimates) in Washington, D.C. on the day before Woodrow Wilson's inauguration. This was designed as a political tactic to show the strength of women and to show that they would pursue their goals under Wilson’s administration. Leading the parade was Inez Milholland who wore all white and rode on a white horse, which later served as a symbol for the suffrage movement. This placement of Millholland at the start of the parade was strategic because of Mulholland's beauty, Paul knew she would attract media attention and followers. One of the criticisms of this first national suffrage parade was the barrier of colored women from participating side by side with white women. Even though Paul never opposed black women getting the right to vote, she barred them from marching with the white women and forced them to be in the back of the parade with the men to appease southern women. The parade quickly devolved into chaos due to violent reactions from the crowd and a lack of support by the local police. The D.C. police did little to help the suffragists; but the women were assisted by the Massachusetts National Guard, the Pennsylvania National Guard, and boys from the Maryland Agricultural College, who created a human barrier protecting the women from the angry crowd.\n\nAfter this incident, which Paul effectively used to rally public opinion to the suffrage cause, Paul and Burns founded the Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage in April 1913, which split off from NAWSA later that year. There were many reasons for the split, but primarily Paul and Burns were frustrated with the National's slower approach of focusing on individual state referendums and wanted to pursue a congressional amendment. Alice Paul had also chafed under the leadership of Carrie Chapman Catt, as she had very different ideas of how to go about suffrage work, and a different attitude towards militancy. Catt disapproved of the radical strategies, inspired by the British \"Suffragettes\", Paul and Burns were trying to implement into the American Suffrage Movement.\n\nThe split was confirmed by a major difference of opinion on the Shafroth-Palmer Amendment. This amendment was spearheaded by Alice Paul's replacement as chair of the National's Congressional Committee, and was a compromise of sorts meant to appease racist sentiment in the South. Shafroth–Palmer was to be a constitutional amendment that would require any state with more than 8 percent signing an initiative petition to hold a state referendum on suffrage. This would have kept the law-making out of federal hands, a proposition more attractive to the South. Southern states feared a congressional women's suffrage amendment as a possible federal encroachment into their restrictive system of voting laws, meant to disenfranchise the black voter.\n\nPaul and Burns felt that this amendment was a lethal distraction from the true and ultimately necessary goal of an all-encompassing federal amendment protecting the rights of all women—especially as the bruising rounds of state referendums were perceived at the time as almost damaging the cause. In Paul's words: \"It is a little difficult to treat with seriousness an equivocating, evasive, childish substitute for the simple and dignified suffrage amendment now before Congress.\"\n\nWomen associated with the party staged a very innovative suffrage parade on March 3, 1913, the day before Wilson's inauguration.\n\nDuring the group's first meeting, Paul clarified that the party would not be a traditional political party and therefore would not endorse a candidate for president during elections. While non-partisan, the NWP directed most of its attention to President Woodrow Wilson and the Democrats, criticizing them as responsible for the failure to pass a constitutional amendment. As a result, in 1918, Paul ran a campaign that boycotted Democrats because of their refusal to support women's suffrage. They decided to boycott the entire party, including pro-suffrage Democrats. Eventually, the boycott of Democrats spearheaded by the NWP lead to a Republican majority in the house. The National Woman's Party continued to focus on suffrage as their main cause. It refused to either support or attack American involvement in the World War, while the rival NAWSA, under Carrie Chapman Catt gave full support to the war effort. As a result, a diverse group of activists such as pacifists and Socialists were attracted to the NWP due to its opposition to an anti-suffrage president.\n\nThe escalating conflict in Europe didn’t stop Alice Paul and the NWP from protesting Wilson’s hypocritical stance on the war. Wilson promoted the idea of maintaining democracy abroad, even though the United States still denied half of its citizens the right to vote. The NWP pickets were seen as controversial because they continued during war time and other suffrage groups like NAWSA chose to support the war effort. Known as \"Silent Sentinels\", their action lasted from January 10, 1917 until June 1919. The picketers were tolerated at first, but when they continued to picket after the United States declared war in 1917, they were arrested by police for obstructing traffic. Regardless of the weather, the women stood outside of the White House holding banners, constantly reminding Wilson of his hypocrisy. When they were first arrested, Lucy Burns claimed that they were political prisoners but were treated as regular prisoners.  As a tribute to their commitment to suffrage, they refused to pay the fines  and accepted prison time. The first night that the Silent Sentinels spent in jail was known as the Night of Terror: the prisoners were beaten until a few of them were unconscious, starved, and Burns had her hands chained above her head. Due to this unlawful detention, many of the NWP's members went on hunger strikes; some, including Lucy Burns and Paul, were force-fed by jail personnel as a consequence.Hunger strikes left the women weak and in terrible conditions, but they persisted. After a while, the guards were told to force-feed the women. They had long narrow tubes shoved down their throats, which caused many injuries that failed to heal. The suffragists were also forced to provide labor in the workhouses and were often beaten and abused. Taking advantage of the mistreatment and physical abuse, some of the suffragists shared their stories to the press and to \"The Suffragist\", their suffrage newspaper. Doris Stevens, a notable member of the NWP, wrote about their horrible experiences in the Occoquan Workhouse in her memoir \"Jailed for Freedom\". The resulting publicity was at a time when Wilson was trying to build a reputation for himself and the nation as an international leader in human rights. Many of banners featured quotes from Wilson about preserving democracy abroad, which called attention to Wilson's hypocrisy and his lack of support for a national suffrage amendment.\n\nThere are many different theories about why Wilson changed his stance of suffrage. Wilson favored  woman suffrage at the state level, but held off support for a nationwide constitutional amendment because his party was sharply divided, with the South opposing an amendment on the grounds of state's rights. The only Southern state to grant women the vote was Arkansas. The NWP in 1917–1919 repeatedly targeted Wilson and his party for not enacting an amendment. Wilson, however, kept in close touch with more moderate suffragists of the NAWSA. Wilson continued to hold off until he was sure the Democratic Party in the North was in support; the 1917 referendum in New York State in favor of suffrage proved decisive for him. In January 1918, Wilson went in person to the House and made a strong and widely published appeal to the House to pass the bill. The NWP had many innovative non-violent tactics including; staging sit-ins, organizing deputations of high class and working-class women, boycotting the Democrats in midterm elections, using the voting power of women in the west, appealing to Wilson everyday through picketing, and calling out Wilson for supporting world democracy but not supporting it at home, of the NWP were a contributing factor in getting Wilson to change his position on the suffrage bill. It passed but the Senate stalled until 1919 then finally sent the amendment to the states for ratification. Scholar Belinda A. Stillion Southard has written that \"...the campaign of the NWP was crucial toward securing the passage of the Nineteenth Amendment.\"\n\nThe NWP played a critical role in the passage of the Nineteenth Amendment in 1920, which granted U.S. women the right to vote. Alice Paul then turned her attention to securing the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) which she felt was vital for women to secure gender equality. The NWP regrouped in1923 and published the magazine \"Equal Rights\". The publication was directed towards women but also intended to educate men about the benefits of women's suffrage, women's rights and other issues concerning American women.\n\nMen and women shall have equal rights throughout the United States and every place subject to its jurisdiction. \n\nThe NWP did not support protective legislation and argued that these laws would continue to depress women's wages and prevent women from gaining access to all types of work and parts of society. But, the NWP did support working women and their support was vital throughout their campaign for the national Amendment. Alice Paul organized many working class deputations and even sent over 400 blue collar workers to meet with Wilson. Although seen as highly controversial due to the status difference, this move showed Paul's support for all types of women, not just those of prestigious class.\n\nAfter 1920, the National Woman's Party authored over 600 pieces of legislation fighting for women's equality; over 300 were passed. In addition, the NWP continued to lobby for the passage of the Equal Rights Amendment and under president Sarah Tarleton Colvin, who served in 1933, pressed for equal pay. Scholar Mary K. Trigg has noted, \"...the NWP played a central role in the women's rights movement after 1945. It stuck to its laser-like focus on the ERA, doggedly lobbying year in and year out for the amendment's introduction in Congress.\" In 1997, the NWP ceased to be a lobbying organization. Instead, it turned its focus to education and to preserving its collection of first hand source documents from the women's suffrage movement. The NWP continues to function as an educational organization, maintaining and interpreting the collection left by the work of the historic National Woman's Party.\n\nCongress passed the ERA Amendment and many states ratified it, but at the last minute in 1982 it was stopped by a coalition of conservatives led by Phyllis Schlafly and never passed. However, in 1964 the NWP did succeed, with the support of conservatives and over the opposition of liberals, blacks and labor unions, to have \"sex\" added to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, thus achieving some of the goals sought by the NWP.\n\nIn 1963 Congress passed the Equal Pay Act of 1963, which prohibited wage differentials based on sex.\n\nThe prohibition on sex discrimination was added by Howard W. Smith, a powerful Virginian Democrat who chaired the House Rules Committee. He was a conservative who strongly opposed civil rights laws for blacks, but he supported such laws for white women. \nSmith's amendment was passed by a teller vote of 168 to 133. \nHistorians debate Smith's motivation—was it a cynical attempt to defeat the bill by someone opposed to both civil rights for blacks and women, or did he support women's rights and was attempting to improve the bill by broadening it to include women? Smith expected that Republicans, who had included equal rights for women in their party's platform since 1944, would probably vote for the amendment. Historians speculate that Smith was trying to embarrass northern Democrats who opposed civil rights for women because the clause was opposed by labor unions.\n\nSmith asserted that he sincerely supported the amendment and, indeed, along with Rep. Martha Griffiths, he was the chief spokesperson for the amendment. For twenty years Smith had sponsored the Equal Rights Amendment—with no linkage to racial issues—in the House because he believed in it. For decades he had been close to the National Woman's Party and especially Paul. She and other activists had worked with Smith since 1945 trying to find a way to include sex as a protected civil rights category. Now was the moment. Griffiths argued that the new law would protect black women but not white women, and that was unfair to white women. Furthermore, she argued that the laws \"protecting\" women from unpleasant jobs were actually designed to enable men to monopolize those jobs, and that was unfair to women who were not allowed to try out for those jobs. The amendment passed with the votes of Republicans and Southern Democrats. The final law passed with the votes of Republicans and Northern Democrats. However, in 1964 the NWP and Pauli Murray did succeed, with the support of conservatives and over the opposition of liberals, blacks and labor unions, to have \"sex\" added to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, thus achieving some of the goals sought by the NWP. Pauli Murray was also instrumental in the inclusion of sex in Title VII of the Civil Rights Act. Title VII of the Civil Rights Act prohibits the discrimination based on sex, which has been attributed to the betterment of women as a group.\n\n\"The Suffragist\" newspaper was founded by the Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage in 1913. It was referred to as \"the only women's political newspaper in the United States\" and was published to promote women's suffrage activities. The Suffragist would follow weekly events and promote different views held by the leaders of the NWP. Its articles had political cartoons, by Nina E. Allender to garner support for the movement and communicate the status of the suffrage amendment.\n\nAfter the amendment for the women's right to vote was passed, the publication was discontinued by the National Woman's Party and succeeded in 1923 by \"Equal Rights\". Published until 1954, \"Equal Rights\" began as a weekly newsletter and evolved into a bi-monthly release aimed at keeping NWP members informed about developments related to the ERA and legislative issues. It included field reports, legislation updates and features about the activities of the NWP and featured writing from contributors including Crystal Eastman, Zona Gale, Ruth Hale and Inez Haynes Irwin. Josephine Casey appeared on the cover of the publication in April 1931 as a result of her recurring column about the labour conditions of female textile workers in Georgia.\n\nThe Nineteenth amendment, which prohibits the denial of the right to vote on the basis of sex, became the law of the land when it was ratified by a sufficient number of states in 1920. Many African American women and men in the Jim Crow South, however, remained disenfranchised after the ratification of this amendment until the Voting Rights Act of 1965.\n\nToday, the National Woman's Party exists as a 501c3 educational organization. Its task is now the maintenance and interpretation of the collection and archives of the historic National Woman's Party. The NWP operates out of the Belmont-Paul Women's Equality National Monument in Washington, DC, where objects from the collection are exhibited. The legacy that this group left behind is mixed. On one hand Alice Paul and the NWP were one of the reasons that the Nineteenth Amendment was passed, but on the other hand the party was flawed for their lack of inclusion of black women and their refusal to help black women gain the right to vote. To keep the support of southern members of the NWP, Paul refused to bring up the issue of race in the south. Her single-minded focus on the ERA caused her to refuse to fight the Jim Crow Laws barring black women the right to vote. Historian Nancy Cott has noted that as the party moved into the 1920s it remained ideologically consistent in the pursuit of a solitary goal for women and that:\nit remained an autocratically run, single-minded and single-issue pressure group, still reliant on getting into the newspapers as a means of publicizing its cause, very insistent on the method of \"getting in touch with the key men.\"...NWP lobbyists went straight to legislators, governors, and presidents, not to their constituents.\n\nIn 1972 Congress passed the ERA Amendment and many states ratified it, but at the last minute in 1982 it was stopped by a coalition of conservatives led by Phyllis Schlafly and never passed. Even though the expiration date has passed for this Amendment, recently a few states have ratified it symbolically. Although Alice Paul didn’t live to see her hard work pay off, her legacy lives on in the continued struggle to ratify the ERA.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "216235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=216235", "title": "Natural order (philosophy)", "text": "Natural order (philosophy)\n\nIn philosophy, the natural order is the moral source from which natural law seeks to derive its authority. Natural order encompasses the natural relations of beings to one another in the absence of law, which natural law attempts to reinforce. This is related to Dharma.\n\nIn contrast, divine law seeks authority from God, and positive law seeks authority from government.\n\nThe term is used by Hans-Hermann Hoppe in his book, \"\", to defend anarcho-capitalism.\n\nThe term is used by Friedrich Hayek in his writings.\n\n"}
{"id": "27724306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27724306", "title": "Nonsense word", "text": "Nonsense word\n\nA nonsense word, unlike a sememe, may have no definition. Nonsense words can be classified depending on their orthographic and phonetic similarity with (meaningful) words. If it can be pronounced according to a language's phonotactics, it is a pseudoword. Nonsense words are used in literature for poetic or humorous effect. Proper names of real or fictional entities are sometimes nonsense words.\n\nA stunt word is a nonsense word used for a special effect, or to attract attention, as part of a performance. Such words are a feature of the work of Dr. Seuss (\"Sometimes I am quite certain there's a Jertain in the curtain\").\n\nThe ability to infer the (hypothetical) meaning of a nonsense word from context is used to test for brain damage.\n"}
{"id": "2368360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2368360", "title": "Obstetrical dilemma", "text": "Obstetrical dilemma\n\nThe obstetrical dilemma is a hypothesis to explain why humans often require assistance from other humans during childbirth to avoid complications, whereas most non-human primates give birth alone with relatively little difficulty. The obstetrical dilemma posits that this is due to the biological trade-off imposed by two opposing evolutionary pressures in the development of the human pelvis. As human ancestor species (hominids) developed bipedal locomotion (the ability to walk upright), decreasing the size of the bony birth canal, they also developed ever larger skulls, which required a wider obstetrical pelvic area to accommodate this trend in hominid infants.\n\nThe term, obstetrical dilemma, was coined in 1960, by Sherwood Lerned Washburn (SL Washburn), a prominent early American physical anthropologist, in order to describe the evolutionary development of the human pelvis and its relation to childbirth and pregnancy in hominids and non-human primates. In the intervening decades, the term has been used broadly among anthropologists, biologists, and other scientists to describe aspects of this hypothesis and related topics.\n\nThe obstetrical dilemma hypothesizes that when hominids began to develop bipedal locomotion, the conflict between these two opposing evolutionary pressures became greatly exacerbated. Because humans are currently the only recognized extant obligately bipedal primates, meaning our body shape requires to only use two legs, major evolutionary developments had to occur in order to alter to the shape of the female pelvis. Human males evolved narrower hips optimized for locomotion, whereas female hips evolved to be a wider optimization because of childbirthing needs. Human pelvises have no distinguishing skeletal markers for sex before puberty, meanwhile, with maturation, hormones and obstetrical demands alter the shape of the pelvis in females. Overall, through evolution of the species, a number of structures in the body have changed size, proportion, or location in order to accommodate bipedal locomotion and allow a person to stand upright and face forward. To help support the upper body, a number of structural changes were made to the pelvis. The ilial pelvic bone shifted forward and broadened, while the ischial pelvic bone shrank, narrowing the pelvic canal. These changes were occurring at the same time as humans were developing larger craniums.\n\nEarly human ancestors, hominids, originally gave birth in a similar way that non-human primates do because early obligate quadrupedal individuals would have retained similar skeletal structure to great apes. Most non-human primates today have neonatal heads that are close in size to the mother’s birth canal, as evidenced by observing female primates who do not need assistance in birthing, often seeking seclusion away from others of their species. In modern humans, parturition (childbirth) differs greatly from the rest of the primates because of both pelvic shape of the mother and neonatal shape of the infant. Further adaptations evolved to cope with bipedalism and larger craniums were also important such as neonatal rotation of the infant, shorter gestation length, assistance with birth, and a malleable neonatal head.\nDuring delivery neonatal rotation occurs when the body gets rotated to align head and shoulders transversely when entering the small pelvis (internal rotation) and then longitudinally to exit the birth canal (external rotation). This is an important mechanism because growth in the size of the cranium as well as the width of the shoulders makes it more difficult for the infant to fit through the pelvis. This differs in non-human primates as there is no need for neonatal rotation in non-human primates because the birth canal is wide enough to accommodate the infant.\n\nGestation length in humans is shorter than most other primates. It is thought that this shorter gestation period is an adaptation to ensure the survival of mother and child because it leads to altriciality. The obstetrical dilemma hypothesis suggests that in order to successfully undergo childbirth, the infant must be born earlier and earlier, thereby making the child increasingly developmentally premature. The concept of the infant being born underdeveloped is called altriciality. Humans are born with an underdeveloped brain; only 25% of their brains fully developed at birth as opposed to non-human primates where the infant is born with 45–50% brain development.\nHuman infants are also almost always born with assistance from other humans because of the way that the pelvis is shaped. Since the pelvis and opening of birth canal face backwards, humans have difficulty giving birth themselves because they cannot guide the baby out of the canal. Non-human primates seek seclusion when giving birth because they do not need any help due to the pelvis and opening being more forward. Human infants depend on their parents much more and for much longer than other primates. Humans spend a lot of their time caring for their children as they develop whereas other species stand on their own from when they are born. The faster an infant develops, the higher the reproductive output of a female can be. So in humans, the cost of slow development of their infants is that humans reproduce relatively slowly. This phenomenon is also known as cooperative breeding.\n\nHumans are born with a very malleable fetal head which is not fully developed when the infant exits the womb. This soft spot on the crown of the infant allows for the head to be compressed in order to better fit through the birth canal without obstructing it. This allows for the head to develop more after birth and for the cranium to continue growing without affecting the birthing process.\n\nThe obstetrical dilemma hypothesis has had several challenges to it, as more data is collected and analysized. Several different fields of study have taken an interest in understanding more about the human birth process and that of human ancestor species.\n\nSome studies have shown that higher brain growth rates happen earlier on in ontogeny than previously thought, which challenges the idea that the explanation of the obstetrical dilemma is that humans are born with underdeveloped brains. This is because if brain growth rates were largest in early development, that is when the brain size would increase the most. Premature birth would not allow for a much larger head size if most of the growth had already happened. Also, it has been suggested that maternal pelvic dimensions are sensitive to some ecological factors.\n\nThere has been a lot of evidence linking body mass to brain mass and determining maternal metabolism as a key factor in the growth of the fetus. Maternal constraints could be largely due to thermal stress or energy available. A larger brain mass in the neonate corresponds to more energy needed to sustain it. It takes much more energy for the mother if the brain fully develops in the womb. If maternal energy is the limiting factor then an infant can only grow as much as the mother can sustain. Also, because fetal size is positively correlated to maternal energy use, thermal stress is an issue because the larger the fetus the more the mother can suffer heat stress.\n\nAdditional studies suggest that other factors may further complicate the obstetrical dilemma hypothesis. One of these is dietary shifts, possibly due to the emergence of agriculture. This can be both due to change in diet as well as the increase in population density since agriculture was developed; more people leads to more disease. Studies have also been done in twins to show that pelvic size may be due more to the environment in which they live than their genetics. Another study disproves the thought that narrower hips are optimized for locomotion because it was found that a Late Stone Age population Southern Africa that survived largely on terrestrial mobility had women who had uncharacteristically small body size with large pelvic canals.\n\nMoreover, the pelvis has the most favorable morphology for obstetrics between ages 25 and 30. Given that those are the ages of highest fertility, it may indicate that sex-biased autosomal gene expression, regulated by sex-specific hormones and sensitivity of hormone receptors, may obstruct the birth outside of that age range.\n\nThe energetics of gestation and growth (EGG) hypothesis offers a direct challenge to the obstetrical dilemma hypothesis, equating the constraints on gestation and parturition to the energy restrictions of the mother. It has been shown that using both professional athletes and pregnant women, there is an upper limitation to the amount of energy a woman can produce before it cause deleterious effects: approximately 2.1x their basal metabolic rate. During pregnancy the growing brain mass and length in the neonate correspond to more energy needed to sustain it. This results in a competing balance between the fetus’s demand for energy and the maternal ability to meet that demand. At approximately 9 months gestation, the fetus’s energy needs surpasses the mother’s energy limitation, correlating with the average time of birth. The newly born infant can then be sustained on breast milk, which is a more efficient, less energy demanding mechanism of nutrient transfer between mother and child. Additionally, this hypothesis demonstrates that, contrary to the obstetrical dilemma, an increased pelvic size would not be deleterious to bipedalism. Studying the running mechanics of males and females, it was shown that an increased pelvic size related to neither an increased metabolic nor structural demand on a woman.\n\nThe obstetrical dilemma hypothesis has also been challenged conceptually based on new studies. The authors argue that the obstetrical dilemma hypothesis assumes that human, and therefore hominid, childbirth has been a painful and dangerous experience through the species' evolution. This assumption may be fundamentally false as many early analyses focused on maternal death data from primarily females of European-descent in Western Europe and the United States during the 19th and 20th century, a limited population in a time of great change. The study suggests the increase in maternal mortality during this time period was not due to evolutionary limitations as the creators of the obstetrical dilemma hypothesis thought, but due to the increased use of medical intervention, the medicalization of pregnancy and childbirth and restrictive socio-cultural practices of the Victorian era. In a recent study a covariation between human pelvis shape, stature, and head size is reported. It is said that females with a large head possess a birth canal that can better accommodate large-headed neonates. Mothers with large heads usually give birth to neonates with large heads. Therefore, the detected pattern of covariation contributes to ease childbirth and has likely evolved in response to strong correlational selection.\n"}
{"id": "2179639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2179639", "title": "Obstruction theory", "text": "Obstruction theory\n\nIn mathematics, obstruction theory is a name given to two different mathematical theories, both of which yield cohomological invariants.\n\nIn the original work of Stiefel and Whitney, characteristic classes were defined as obstructions to the existence of certain fields of linear independent vectors. Obstruction theory turns out to be an application of cohomology theory to the problem of constructing a cross-section of a bundle.\n\nThe older meaning for obstruction theory in homotopy theory relates to the procedure, inductive with respect to dimension, for extending a continuous mapping defined on a simplicial complex, or CW complex. It is traditionally called \"Eilenberg obstruction theory\", after Samuel Eilenberg. It involves cohomology groups with coefficients in homotopy groups to define obstructions to extensions. For example, with a mapping from a simplicial complex \"X\" to another, \"Y\", defined initially on the 0-skeleton of \"X\" (the vertices of \"X\"), an extension to the 1-skeleton will be possible whenever the image of the 0-skeleton will belong to the same path-connected component of \"Y\". Extending from the 1-skeleton to the 2-skeleton means defining the mapping on each solid triangle from \"X\", given the mapping already defined on its boundary edges. Likewise, then extending the mapping to the 3-skeleton involves extending the mapping to each solid 3-simplex of \"X\", given the mapping already defined on its boundary. \n\nAt some point, say extending the mapping from the (n-1)-skeleton of \"X\" to the n-skeleton of \"X\", this procedure might be impossible. In that case, one can assign to each n-simplex the homotopy class of the mapping already defined on its boundary, (at least one of which will be non-zero). These assignments define an n-cochain with coefficients in . Amazingly, this cochain turns out to be a cocyle and so defines a cohomology class in the nth cohomology group of \"X\" with coefficients in . When this cohomology class is equal to 0, it turns out that the mapping may be modified within its homotopy class on the (n-1)-skeleton of \"X\" so that the mapping may be extended to the n-skeleton of \"X\". If the class is not equal to zero, it is called the obstruction to extending the mapping over the n-skeleton, given its homotopy class on the (n-1)-skeleton.\n\nSuppose that is a simply connected simplicial complex and that is a fibration with fiber . Furthermore, assume that we have a partially defined section on the -skeleton of .\n\nFor every -simplex in , can be restricted to its boundary (which is a topological -sphere). Because send each of these back to each , we have a map from an -sphere to . Because fibrations satisfy the homotopy lifting property, and is contractible; is homotopy equivalent to . So this partially defined section assigns an element of to every -simplex. This is precisely the data of a -valued simplicial cochain of degree on , i.e. an element of . This cochain is called the obstruction cochain because it being the zero means that all of these elements of are trivial, which means that our partially defined section can be extended to the -skeleton by using the homotopy between (the partially defined section on the boundary of each ) and the constant map.\n\nThe fact that this cochain came from a partially defined section (as opposed to an arbitrary collection of maps from the all the boundaries of all the -simplices) can be used to prove that this cochain is a cocycle. If one started with a different partially defined section that agreed with the original on the -skeleton, then one can also prove that the resulting cocycle would differ from the first by a coboundary. Therefore we have a well-defined element of the cohomology group such that if a partially defined section on the -skeleton exists that agrees with the given choice on the -skeleton, then this cohomology class must be trivial.\n\nThe converse is also true if one allows such things as \"homotopy sections\", i.e. a map such that is homotopic (as opposed to equal) to the identity map on . Thus it provides a complete invariant of the existence of sections up to homotopy on the -skeleton.\n\n\nIn geometric topology, obstruction theory is concerned with when a topological manifold has a piecewise linear structure, and when a piecewise linear manifold has a differential structure.\n\nIn dimension at most 2 (Rado), and 3 (Moise), the notions of topological manifolds and piecewise linear manifolds coincide. In dimension 4 they are not the same.\n\nIn dimensions at most 6 the notions of piecewise linear manifolds and differentiable manifolds coincide.\n\nThe two basic questions of surgery theory are whether a topological space with \"n\"-dimensional Poincaré duality is homotopy equivalent to an \"n\"-dimensional manifold, and also whether a homotopy equivalence of \"n\"-dimensional manifolds is homotopic to a diffeomorphism. In both cases there are two obstructions for \"n>9\", a primary topological K-theory obstruction to the existence of a vector bundle: if this vanishes there exists a normal map, allowing the definition of the secondary surgery obstruction in algebraic L-theory to performing surgery on the normal map to obtain a homotopy equivalence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4740425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4740425", "title": "Omission bias", "text": "Omission bias\n\nThe omission bias is an alleged type of cognitive bias. It is the tendency to judge harmful actions as worse, or less moral than equally harmful omissions (inactions) because actions are more obvious than inactions. It is contentious as to whether this represents a systematic error in thinking, or is supported by a substantive moral theory. For a consequentialist, judging harmful actions as worse than inaction would indeed be inconsistent, but deontological ethics may, and normally does, draw a moral distinction between doing and allowing. The bias is usually showcased through the trolley problem.\n\nSpranca, Minsk and Baron extended the omission bias to judgments of morality of choices. In one scenario, John, a tennis player, would be facing a tough opponent the next day in a decisive match. John knows his opponent is allergic to a food substance. Subjects were presented with two conditions: John recommends the food containing the allergen to hurt his opponent's performance, or the opponent himself orders the allergenic food, and John says nothing. A majority of people judged that John's action of recommending the allergenic food as being more immoral than John's inaction of not informing the opponent of the allergenic substance.\n\nThe effect has also held in real world athletic arenas: NBA statistics showcased referees called 50 percent fewer fouls in the final moments of close games.\n\nAn additional real-world example is when parents decide not to vaccinate their children because of the potential chance of death—even when the probability the vaccination will cause death is much less likely than death from the disease prevented.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18151816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18151816", "title": "Parallel thinking", "text": "Parallel thinking\n\nParallel thinking is a term coined by Edward de Bono. Parallel thinking is described as a constructive alternative to: \"adversarial thinking\"; debate; and the approaches exemplified by Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle (whom de Bono refers to as the \"Greek gang of three\" (GG3) ). In general parallel thinking is a further development of the well known lateral thinking processes, focusing even more on explorations—looking for \"what can be\" rather than for \"what is\".\n\nParallel thinking is defined as a thinking process where focus is split in specific directions. When done in a group it effectively avoids the consequences of the adversarial approach (as used in courts).\n\nIn adversarial debate, the objective is to prove or disprove statements put forward by the parties (normally two). This is also known as the dialectic approach. In Parallel Thinking, practitioners put forward as many statements as possible in several (preferably more than two) parallel tracks. This leads to \"exploration\" of a subject where all participants can contribute, in parallel, with knowledge, facts, feelings, etc.\n\nCrucial to the method is that the process is done in a disciplined manner, and that all participants play along and contribute \"in parallel\". Thus each participant must stick to the specific track.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7736821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736821", "title": "Phase factor", "text": "Phase factor\n\nFor any complex number written in polar form (such as \"r\"e), the phase factor is the complex exponential factor (e). As such, the term \"phase factor\" is related to the more general term phasor, which may have any magnitude (i.e., not necessarily part of the circle group). The phase factor is a unit complex number, i.e., of absolute value 1. It is commonly used in quantum mechanics. \n\nThe variable \"θ\" appearing in such an expression is generally referred to as the phase. Multiplying the equation of a plane wave \"A\"e by a phase factor shifts the phase of the wave by \"θ\":\n\nIn quantum mechanics, a phase factor is a complex coefficient e that multiplies a ket formula_2 or bra formula_3. It does not, in itself, have any physical meaning, since the introduction of a phase factor does not change the expectation values of a Hermitian operator. That is, the values of formula_4 and formula_5 are the same. However, \"differences\" in phase factors between two interacting quantum states can sometimes be measurable (such as in the Berry phase) and this can have important consequences.\n\nIn optics, the phase factor is an important quantity in the treatment of interference.\n\n"}
{"id": "1570616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1570616", "title": "Popper's three worlds", "text": "Popper's three worlds\n\nPopper's three worlds is a way of looking at reality, described by the British philosopher Karl Popper in a lecture in 1978. The concept involves three interacting worlds, called World 1, World 2 and World 3.\n\nPopper split the world into three categories:\n\n\nThe theory of interaction between World 1 and World 2 is an alternative theory to Cartesian dualism, which is based on the theory that the universe is composed of two essential substances: \"res cogitans\" and \"res extensa\". Popperian cosmology rejects this essentialism, but maintains the common sense view that physical and mental states exist, and they interact.\n\nPopper's World 3 contains the products of thought. This includes abstract objects such as scientific theories, stories, myths, tools, social institutions, and works of art. World 3 is not to be conceived as a Platonic realm, because it is created by humans.\n\nThe interaction of World 2 and World 3 is based on the theory that World 3 is partially autonomous. For example, the development of scientific theories in World 3 leads to unintended consequences, in that problems and contradictions are discovered by World 2. Another example is that the process of learning causes World 3 to change World 2.\n\nOther entities are contained in World 3, such as feats of engineering and art. The World 3 objects, although they exist in World 1, are embodied and given extra meaning by World 3. For example, the intrinsic value of Hamlet as a World 3 object is embodied many times in World 1, the physical world. This idea would be something along the lines of a meta-object, or a form of being.\n\nAs a pluralist, laid out in his Tanner Lecture, Popper views interactions between all three worlds as a matter of course. This is similar to the linkages made by William Kirk between the 'phenomenal environment' of physical facts and social facts and decisions made in the 'behavioural environment'. . A discussion between Popper's three worlds and Kirk's views has been made by Bird who also discusses the three worlds in relation to methodological implications for geography. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14919990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14919990", "title": "Predator (franchise)", "text": "Predator (franchise)\n\nThe Predator film series is a science fiction action franchise based on a race of fictional extraterrestrials created by Jim Thomas and John Thomas. Produced by 20th Century Fox, the series started in 1987 with the film \"Predator\", which led to two sequels and novel, comic book, and video game spin-offs. Related to the franchise is the \"Alien vs. Predator\", which combine the eponymous Predator with the creatures from the \"Alien\" film series.\n\n\"Predator\" was John McTiernan's first studio film as director. The studio hired screenplay writer Shane Black to not only play a supporting role in the film, but to keep an eye on McTiernan due to the director's inexperience. Jean-Claude Van Damme was originally cast as the film's creature, the idea being that the physical action star would use his martial arts skills to make the creature an agile, ninja-esque hunter. When compared to Arnold Schwarzenegger, Carl Weathers and Jesse Ventura, actors known for their bodybuilding regimes, it became apparent a more physically imposing man was needed to make the creature appear threatening. Eventually, Van Damme was removed from the film and replaced by the actor and mime artist Kevin Peter Hall.\n\nThe predator creature's design is credited to special effects artist Stan Winston. While flying to Japan with \"Aliens\" director James Cameron, Winston, who had been hired to design the Predator, was doing concept art on the flight. Cameron saw what he was drawing and said, \"I always wanted to see something with mandibles\". Winston then included them in his designs. Schwarzenegger recommended Winston after his experience working on \"The Terminator\".\n\nThe film's creature was originally designed with a long neck, a dog-like head and a single eye. This design was abandoned when it became apparent that the jungle locations would make shooting the complex design too difficult. Originally, the studio contracted the makeup effects for the alien from Richard Edlund's \"Boss Film Creature Shop\". However, with problems filming the creature in Mexico and attempts to create a convincing monster of Van Damme, wearing a much different body suit, failing, makeup effects responsibilities were given to Winston and his studio, R/Greenberg Associates. According to former \"Boss Film Creature Shop\" makeup supervisor Steve Johnson, the makeup failed because of an impractical design by McTiernan that included length extensions that gave the creature a backward bent satyr-leg. The design did not work in the jungle locations. After six weeks of shooting in the jungles of Palenque, Mexico, the production had to shut down so that Winston could make the new creature. This took eight months and then filming resumed for five weeks.\n\nThe sound of the creature was provided by Peter Cullen. Despite his resolution not to voice any more monsters following injuries to his throat sustained during the ADR of King Kong, his agent convinced him to audition. The bubbling sound was inspired by a mixture of the visual of the creature and his recollection of a dying horseshoe crab.\n\nR/Greenberg Associates created the film's optical effects, including the creature's ability to become invisible, its thermal vision point-of-view, its glowing blood, and the electric spark effects. The invisibility effect was achieved by having someone in a bright red suit (because it was the farthest opposite of the green of the jungle and the blue of the sky) the size of the creature. The take was then repeated without the actors using a 30% wider lens on the camera. When the two takes were combined optically, a vague outline of the alien could be seen with the background scenery bending around its shape. For the thermal vision, infrared film could not be used because it did not register in the range of body temperature wavelengths. The glowing blood was achieved by green liquid from chem-lite sticks used by campers. The electrical sparks were rotoscoped animation using white paper pin registered on portable light tables to black-and-white prints of the film frames. The drawings were composited by the optical crew for the finished effects.\n\nAlso, in an interview on \"Predator\" Special Edition, actor Carl Weathers said many of the actors would secretly wake up as early as 3 a.m. to work out before the day's shooting, in order to look \"pumped\" during the scene. Weathers also stated that he would act as if his physique was naturally given to him, and would work out only after all the other actors were nowhere to be seen. It was reported that actor Sonny Landham was so unstable on the set that a bodyguard was hired; not to protect Landham, but to protect the other cast members from him.\n\nAccording to Schwarzenegger, filming was physically demanding as he had to swim in very cold water and spent three weeks covered in mud for the climactic battle with the alien. In addition, cast and crew endured very cold temperatures in the Mexican jungle that required heat lamps to be on all of the time. Schwarzenegger also faced the challenge of working with Kevin Peter Hall who could not see in the creature's suit. Hall could not see out of the mask and had to rehearse his scenes with it off and then memorize where everything was. The outfit was difficult to wear because it was heavy and off-balance.\n\nThe film was particularly successful and subsequently inspired a number of comic books, video games and popular anecdotes within the media. Schwarzenegger was asked to reprise his role in a \"Predator\" sequel, but was already attached to \"\" and could not accept the role. The character was rewritten from the developing sequel's script, and the sequel to \"Predator\", directed by Stephen Hopkins, was scheduled for 1990.\n\nDue to excessive violence, \"Predator 2\" was the first film to be given the newly instituted NC-17 rating in the United States. It was eventually rated R by the Motion Picture Association of America after being re-cut to its final theatrical length. The film cast Danny Glover in the lead role, and reprised Kevin Peter Hall as the Predator. Also, returning to the role of Anna in the sequel, Elpidia Carrillo was slated to be in two scenes but was cut back to a brief appearance on a video screen in the government agents' surveillance trailer. Her character is showing damage to the Central American jungle caused by the explosion at the conclusion of the first film\n\nAn elite paramilitary rescue team, led by Major \"Dutch\" is on a covert operation in Central America when they encounter an alien who hunts them for sport.\n\nIn 1997, a different Predator arrives in Los Angeles and begins hunting violent gang members, drawing the attention of the local police force. The creature itself is in turn being hunted by a secretive government task-force seeking to capture it for study.\n\nIn 2009, it was announced that Robert Rodriguez would relaunch the franchise. Rodriguez had written a script titled \"Predators\" before he had filmed \"Desperado\". In 2009, 20th Century Fox studio executive Alex Young called Rodriguez to consider using his treatment as the basis of reviving the individual \"Predator\" franchise. Writer Alex Litvak was hired to write the screenplay. Nimród Antal was signed on to direct the film. The film follows an ensemble cast of characters including Royce (Adrien Brody), a mercenary who appears along with murderers and otherwise undesirable people in a Predator game preserve jungle planet . The film stars Adrien Brody, Alice Braga, Danny Trejo, Walton Goggins, Oleg Taktarov, Topher Grace, Mahershalalhashbaz Ali, Louis Ozawa Changchien and Laurence Fishburne.\n\nIn June 2014, Fox announced a sequel that Shane Black would direct and co-write with Fred Dekker, and John Davis would produce. Davis has said of the film that he thought it was fresh and reimagined the franchise in a \"different, interesting way\". In February 2016, Black confirmed the title of the new sequel would be \"The Predator\". It was slated for a March 2, 2018, release date. Schwarzenegger revealed to \"TheArnoldFans.com\" in an interview that he was discussing returning to the film as his character. Shane Black referred to the project as an event film that aims to elevate the Predator series: \"It’s an attempt to ‘event-ise’ the Predator again... [An attempt to] make it more mysterious.\" Black also said that the film would mark a return to the \"intimate\" scale of the original film and that the film-makers hoped to achieve “the same sense of wonderment and newness that \"Close Encounters\" had when that came out.” Rapper 50 Cent spoke of the possibility of being involved in the film. \n\nShane Black confirmed that the film would be set in the present day and the eponymous character would have upgraded armor. Black also indicated that the film would not be a complete reboot as it would acknowledge the events of \"Predator\" and \"Predator 2\". Filming was expected to commence in Vancouver in September 2016, with a projected release date of February 9, 2018. In September 2016, Benicio del Toro signed on to star in the film. The following month, Boyd Holbrook was in negotiations to replace del Toro, who departed due to scheduling issues. Filming was delayed to February 20, 2017. On November 3, 2016, The Hollywood Reporter reported that Olivia Munn was in talks to play a role. On November 21, 2016, Larry Fong was announced as the cinematographer for the film. In January 2017, Trevante Rhodes, Keegan-Michael Key and Jacob Tremblay joined the cast while Sterling K. Brown and Thomas Jane were in talks. Black announced on his Twitter account that filming began on February 20, 2017 and wrapped up on June 2. Additional re-shoots in Vancouver started on March 12.\n\nThe producer, John Davis, says that \"The Predator\" will set up two sequels that he hopes Shane Black will return to direct. About this, Black said: \"I would love to say we've been planning a trilogy, but I take one day at a time, in motion-picture terms that's one movie at a time.\" The box office results of The Predator in China may encourage 20th Century Fox to press on with another sequel.\n\nInspired by the Dark Horse Comics series, the filmmakers of \"Predator 2\" (1990) incorporated an easter egg in which an Alien skull was seen in a Predator trophy case. Expansions upon this shared universe between the \"Alien\" and \"Predator\" franchises followed, through comics and video games, until a film franchise was launched with the release of \"Alien vs. Predator\" in 2004, followed by the sequel \"\" in 2007, which spawned various new comics, novels, video games, and other merchandise based upon or inspired by the films.\n\nIn 2004, a Predator mothership arrives in Earth orbit to draw humans to an ancient Predator training ground on Bouvetøya, an island about one thousand miles north of Antarctica. A buried pyramid giving off a \"heat bloom\" attracts a group of explorers led by Charles Bishop Weyland (Lance Henriksen), the original founder and CEO of Weyland Industries, who unknowingly activates an Alien egg production line as a hibernating Alien Queen is awakened within the pyramid. Three Predators descend unto the planet and enters the structure, killing all humans in their way with the intention of hunting the newly formed Aliens, while the scattered explorers are captured alive by Aliens and implanted with embryos. Two Predators die in the ensuing battle with an Alien. The third Predator allies itself with the lone surviving human, Alexa \"Lex\" Woods (Sanaa Lathan), while in their way out of the pyramid as it is destroyed by the Predator's wrist bomb and eventually battles with the escaped Alien Queen on the surface. The Queen is defeated by being dragged down by a water tower into the dark depths of the frozen sea, but not before she fatally wounds the last Predator. The orbiting Predator mothership uncloaks and the crew retrieves the fallen Predator. A Predator elder gives Lex a spear as a sign of respect, and then departs. Once in orbit it is revealed that an Alien Chestburster was present within the corpse, thus a Predalien hybrid is born.\n\nSet immediately after the events of the previous film, the Predalien hybrid aboard the Predator scout ship, having just separated from the mothership shown in the previous film, has grown to full adult size and sets about killing the Predators aboard the ship, causing it to crash in the small town of Gunnison, Colorado. The last surviving Predator activates a distress beacon containing a video recording of the Predalien, which is received by a veteran Predator on the Predator homeworld, who sets off towards Earth to \"clean up\" the infestation. When it arrives, the Predator tracks the Aliens into a section of the sewer below the town. He removes evidence of their presence as he moves along using a corrosive blue liquid and uses a laser net to try to contain the creatures, but the Aliens still manage to escape into the town above. The Predator fashions a plasma pistol from its remaining plasma caster and hunts Aliens all across town, accidentally cutting the power to the town in the process. During a confrontation with human survivors, the Predator loses its plasma pistol. The Predator then fights the Predalien singlehandedly, and the two mortally wound one another just as the US air force drops a tactical nuclear bomb on the town, incinerating both combatants along with the Predalien's warriors and hive, as well as the few remaining humans in the town. The salvaged plasma pistol is then taken to a Ms. Yutani of the Yutani Corporation, foreshadowing an advancement in technology leading to the future events of the \"Alien\" films.\n\nThere have been a number of spin-offs in other media including a large number of crossovers within the \"Aliens\" fictional universe. These include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59073622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59073622", "title": "Ride Sharing Privacy", "text": "Ride Sharing Privacy\n\nRide-sharing is defined as multiple persons, not related to one another, using the same transportation, typically a car, to reach their respective destinations. People can share rides on a short notice, which increases the efficiency of travel. Most often, the riders are not related to one another, and the shared vehicle will eventually reach each rider's destination, as they are in close enough proximity that traveling together is efficient. Ride-share platforms offer a platform where drivers and riders can connect, agree on a pre-determined price calculated by the application, wait time, and location of driver, essentially a way to contact their driver and gain travel information without having to release personal information. Ride-sharing is different than carpooling because the main objective of carpooling is that the driver most likely related to those who are receiving the ride and are purposely recruited for the benefit of the shared parties. Additionally, ride-sharing is mainly hailed through mobile applications, something that sets it apart from normal carpooling, which is primarily set up based on people who already know one another.\n\nRide-sharing is primarily accessed through a mobile application, and because of this, there are several dangers that could lead to an infringement of the user's privacy and their personal information. Mostly, ride-sharing privacy is relevant to a user's location because of the app's ability to pinpoint in live time a user's position. Ride sharing applications primarily use location-based services (LBS) in order to be able to trace the user's location. With location sharing services, there is a need to address privacy protection while still maintaining high accuracy in location pinpointing. Unlike how in online transactions there is a third party or some sort of secure form of transaction, location sharing services cannot follow this same standard. Someone’s privacy could also be in danger because of the ride-share applications' current tracking of the user's location or tracing an IP address so the user does not even have to voluntarily input information about their location, yet they are still being tracked. Additionally, if the user data of locations they interact with falls into the wrong hands, a potential abuse of the data whether that be creating an online profile based on cumulative data of the individual or companies able to share personal information around multiple sources could arise.\n\nThere have been several proposed solutions to the applications in order to try and alter the side-effects of LBS. The amount of protection has to be catered differently than another application because of the real time location aspect. Factors are always changing in real time, so these services cannot accurately update if it is limited to what data it is able to access, but they are good starts being able to try and eliminate these issues in the future.\n\nRide-sharing as a concept has been around since World War II. It wasn't until around 1990s when programs were starting to digitalize, although the concept had long been established since. Some of the first telephone-based ride-matching programs were Bellevue Smart Traveler from The University of Washington, Los Angeles Smart Traveler from Los Angeles's Commuter Transportation Services, and Rideshare Express from Sacramento Rideshare. However, in these telephone-based programs the operational costs started exceeding their revenues and an alternative, internet and email driven ride-matches, was proposed. This program was tested on a closed campus, and it was only available to University of Washington related people, which proved highly successful. Two other programs, ATHENA and MINERVA were both computerized but faced unsuccessful endings.*additional citation* When the internet was created in the 1990s, online ride-matching was created. Websites originally had lists or forums that people could get information for carpooling options from, but the internet provided the ability to develop platforms, which were more dynamic and interactive. Yet, this concept did not kick-start because the mechanics were not any different than traditional carpooling, only the ability to find them had been made easier. Since carpooling and ride-sharing were not a very popular option, the smaller population who did participate already had set agendas so timing wise it was not helpful to those who needed transportation outside of a regular workday commute. Larger scale companies started becoming interested in partnering with ride-matching companies in order to spread the ride-sharing platform which are gaining more traction as availability of mobile technology and thus accessibility not from a stationary point is becoming more prominent.\n\nRide-sharing applications have several user input features:\n\n\nRide-sharing companies also have several tracking features that are unclear in terms of what user information is being collected:\n\n\nUber has an option where user privacy can potentially be forgotten and they are aware of what data they are collecting from the user and are being transparent *citation*:\n\n\nVery recently has the presence of physical cameras been implemented in ride-share vehicles. Prior to this, the only time cameras were related to cars were traffic cameras and police cars. However, there has been a rise in the amount of continuous-recording cameras that are not just surveilling the road and keeping track of what happens outside the car. The implementation of cameras inside cars to record interactions between drivers and riders is something new. However, people are concerned about their privacy because this recording goes on during their trip duration, and they do not verbally consent to their recording. However, they consent to being in a person's car, hence they must abide to the driver's rules. There are federal rules about audio recordings, federal laws only requires \"one party consent\". *citation*\n\nAccording to the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, there are policies regarding recording audio conversations, including clarifications about the \"one-party consent\" rule that comes with it. Regarding audio conversations, it is illegal to record a conversation for which one is not partaking in. However, they are allowed to record if they are a member of the conversation themselves, without having to receive consent from the other party or having to let them know there is recording happening.\n\nThere are several areas where data could potentially be abused by the application knowing the rider's location. Since trip data is collected, if the ride-sharing company has partnerships with corporations, their partners can use the data to predict future locations and be able to pinpoint an individual's interests and market towards them. *citation* Corporations can collect information on what types of stores and what brands are most often visited by a user and can build an online profile, which is traceable. This can also relate to advertising companies, which can target personal interests and alter their online interactions to start showing ads that are catered and specific towards where the user has visited. *citation*\n\nThere are some cases where bad implications could arise. If the user were to partake in something related to their political standpoints, companies can store this for later information and potentially use it against the user if they come into contact with the company in a professional setting. This can apply to medicinal, religious, or legal affiliations as well, that a user's location and places visited cannot be justified when being looked at from an outside perspective.\n\nRelating more to the online profile created of the user, if a person solely relies on ride-sharing services to get around, one can track how long the user has been away from their home and how far away they are from their home. This becomes an opportunity for people to stalk or rob the user because they know when is the ideal time people aren't home. *citation* Looking on a broader scale, based on the demographics of the area a user interacts with, if they frequently visit the same stores within a certain area, information can be assumed, such as estimated income. *citation*\n\nUsers have the option to save a home or work address for easy access. Most often, users put their actual address, but in some cases, users have been known to put an address a couple streets away, just for their safety in case data gets leaked. However, while this is a very basic level of deflection, putting a home address a couple streets away still gives a general location of where the user is stationed.\n\nIndividuals have concerns over how, what, when, and where their location information is being stored as well as to what extent others have access to it. Not only pertaining to ride-sharing applications, but any applications that have sharing enabled of sorts, there are several types of applications that are location aware. Location based searching (LBS) occurs when a user's tracking returns items and buildings around the user's current location in order to be tracked. A map is drawn with the orientation of the surrounding buildings to determine a location. Geo-location services are having the user tracked with an environmental footprint. It's an estimate of a user's location. Mobile sensing is the process of pinpointing the user's physical device, which has sensors and information that can be collected. Location sharing is a voluntary state where the user is in live-time and their location is constantly being updated and tracked.\n\nLooking more at the applications and how a user accesses the ride-sharing service, once a user inputs data into the app, it will be accessible on the web forever. Even if they delete information or delete their account, the information has been created on an online platform and now exists whether the user consents to it or not. These applications ask for user information such as phone number, email, and profile picture, all features which can be used to trace back to the user's identity. Once this information is in the application's database, it can accessed by the application as well as indirectly by any partners of the app.\n\nMost apps have the payment charged and completed before a user can be connected to their ride. Users have the option to store credit card information for easy access instead of having to repeatedly input payment information. While there is an added level of security, such as passcode or touch ID before every transaction, this does not ensure the safety of this information in the app. It only ensures that the current transaction is made under the consent of the user.\n\nUsers are allowed to input a profile picture into their applications. Doing so has the intention of helping drivers spot their intended riders. However, this can cause an issue because if somehow a rider's image is saved and uploaded to the web, connections can be made to personal accounts. For example, with Facebook's face recognition advanced algorithm, it is easier to identify people's identities from outside pictures.\n\nThere are three main categories where location-based services should be protecting:\n\n\nResearchers have come up with a conclusion which introduces a solution for these issues which is a system that helps with both data privacy and user anonymity. The solution is a program that creates a noise distribution so a user’s certain location is offset. It is basically putting the location of the user through some encryption and reporting that location that only the system knows how to read, so it is not manipulating the actual location, but just how that data is input into the system. This solution has already been implemented into two major operating systems, Mac OS and Linux. This solution helps with those who are suspicious of using these ride-sharing application softwares because of the fear of their privacy being invaded or potentially data being stolen, but this software has proven that it can handle securing data as well as keeping the user anonymous. It is more like an extra layer of security that creates another blanket to hide the user.\n\nK-anonymity serves as an Anonymizing Server, which is a trusted third party server which is in charge of providing anonymous cover for users. K-anonymity is used to preserve the location privacy by creating a location cloak without knowing the actual location of the user. The software attempts to find a number of users close to the actual users because then exact locations could not be correlated back to the original user in question and these several locations which cannot be identified to the users in close proximity would protect the original user. There is no way to distinguish between all the users.\n\nAnother solution is to try and use fuzzy interference systems when relating to mobile geo-services. This solution would use different details to identify the user that would not be prone to organizations abusing the obtained information. Currently, location based services can reveal several sensitive pieces of information, like closest religious institutions, which can reveal the identity of the user, which organizations utilize for purely commercial purposes. The paper proposes a solution, anonymization, which protects user’s data in case of accidental breaches. There is an explanation of the fuzzy inference system and how it works *explain how it works* and then the potential implication method in taxi drivers to see if this is an effective way of protecting people’s information because there isn’t a concrete design with anonymization that has proven to do well. There are different levels of precision that the location system can narrow down on a user. These systems turn quantitative data into qualitative data which would obscure a user’s identity and location. After a trial implementation with taxi drivers, several complications came up, mostly human misinterpretation, but in the future, investing more time into this solution and combining it with already existing solutions could provide a more effective solution. To those who are afraid of their locations being tracked and that being used to trace back to the user, this solution makes user data fuzzy so if they are being tracking, it is not completely precise. There are data tables that show experimental distances of how close a tracking software was to those who had implemented the fuzzy solution. This solution takes on a different approach because it doesn’t entirely solve the problem of how to entirely protect the user's privacy, but it is working towards it since the solution has not had enough time to mature, as it is just in introductory stages. It sheds light on the fact that the location tracking software is still not private even when solutions have been taken to try and overcome this solution but leaves an open ending because it ends that with more research and resources put into it (and specifically told what areas could be developed better) it could expand further and be developed better.\n\nOne proposed solution is a model that would estimate how difficult it would be for outside sources to get their hands on someone’s private information. There are several mechanisms proposed that would be helpful in hiding data including location obfuscation, perturbation, confusion and suppression, and cryptographic techniques. \n\nObfuscating a user's location means to cloud the user's location. A user's location coordinates are still being preserved, however the accuracy is just being degraded. However, this cannot be a complete solution because this would just neglect the entire reason of location-based services. So being selective in what an application is obfuscating, would help with protection.\n\nThere is a program, called NRand algorithm, which is the algorithm that determines the amount of obstruction that is put on the user location data. There are a couple issues that arise with this algorithm, including determining how much noise should be implemented and if the changing of the data is enough to alter it to an unrecognizable form from its original state. \n\nOn a map, a location locks onto something in close proximity but not the exact user location because of added noise. With this added layer, if there is another location in a close enough range, a transition will be added to multiple locations and mask all points of interest. \n\nA dummy location is set as the true location. This is done so by pinpointing a user's specific location and transforming it into several other locations, yet keeping the true location. Suppression is a subset of these different applications where for a short period of time, when a user enters an area, the user information is temporarily suspended and the identity of the user is lost, so when they exit back out of the protected area, they have a new identity. \n\nOriginal data is unable to be tracked because information goes through some sort of cryptographic interpreter, could be transformed into several different data points. \n\n"}
{"id": "6725037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6725037", "title": "Rudeness", "text": "Rudeness\n\nRudeness (also called effrontery) is a display of disrespect by not complying with the social norms or etiquette of a group or culture. These norms have been established as the essential boundaries of normally accepted behavior. To be unable or unwilling to align one's behavior with these norms known to the general population of what is socially acceptable is to be rude and are enforced as though they were a sort of social law, with social repercussions or rewards for violators or advocates, respectively. \n\nRudeness, \"constituted by deviation from whatever counts as politic in a given social context, is inherently confrontational and disruptive to social equilibrium\". Rudeness, particularly with respect to speech, is necessarily confrontational at its core.\n\nForms of rudeness include acting inconsiderate, insensitive, deliberately offensive, impolite, a faux pas, obscenity, profanity and violating taboos such as deviancy. In some cases, an act of rudeness can go so far as to be a crime, for example, the crime of hate speech.\n\nBoth manners and morality deal with whether a thing is morally good or bad, but at different levels. Unlike morality, which, for example, condemns murder as a violation of a person, manners primarily concerns itself with violations of human dignity, rather than the person's health or property. Rude behaviour is a violation of human dignity or of the respect due to others.\n\nThe specific actions that are considered polite or rude vary dramatically by place, time, and context. Differences in social role, gender, social class, religion, and cultural identity may all affect the appropriateness of a given behaviour. Consequently, a behaviour that is considered perfectly acceptable by one group of people may be considered clearly rude by another. For example, in medieval and Renaissance Europe, it was rude to indicate that a man wearing a mask in public could be recognized. Instead, polite behaviour demanded that the masked person be treated as a completely unknown person and that no one ever attribute the masked person's actions to the individual who performed them. By contrast, in the modern era, greeting a friend by name while he is wearing a mask, or talking to them later about their costume or activities, is not generally regarded as rude.\n\nCultural differences also appear over time. In the mid-20th century, the meaning of eye rolling changed from its older signal of lust and passion to expressing contempt.\n\nSometimes, people deliberately employ rude behaviours to achieve a goal. Early works in linguistic pragmatism interpreted rudeness as a defective mode of communication. However, most rudeness serves functional or instrumental purposes in communication, and skillfully choosing when and how to be rude may indicate a person's pragmatic competence.\n\nIn every culture, it is possible to act rudely, although what constitutes rude behaviour varies. The following are examples of behaviour that many Western societies would consider \"rude\" or a breach of etiquette, though views may vary by culture, setting, or individual circumstances: \nWhat constitutes rude speech depends on the culture, the setting, and the speaker's social position in the culture. In every culture, some words or statements are considered hate speech or inappropriate ethnic slurs (such as using the word \"Hun\" to a German, using the word \"Jap\" to a Japanese person, etc.). In most modern cultures, insulting a person or group of people, especially for any reason outside their immediate control, such as having a medical condition, following a particular religion, or being poor, is considered rude. Rude speech also includes derogatory terms describing an individual person and asking inappropriate questions or pressing for answers to a question.\n\nHowever, there is no universal rule about which terms are considered derogatory and which questions are inappropriate under what circumstances. A question or comment that is acceptable between family members might be resented from strangers, just like a question that is acceptable among young people in one culture might be unacceptable to older people or to young people in a different culture.\n\nRude ways of speaking include inappropriately discouraging a person's participation in a conversation with rude phrases, such as or using a tone of voice that indicates disrespect for the other person. An impolite tone may amplify obviously rude remarks or contradict nominally polite words. A rude person may interrupt a speaker to indicate that the first speaker is unimportant.\n\nFailing to speak can also be rude: a rude person might pointedly ignore a legitimate and polite greeting or question to communicate disregard for the other person, or might fail to express appropriate thanks for favors or gifts by way of communicating either a sense of selfish entitlement or a disregard for the efforts of the giver. Sometimes people will leave very short gaps when speaking that may allow another person to begin speaking on a subject, however that can vary, and sometimes two or more people speaking at the same time can be considered rude. Which acts and communications require a response from which persons, under which circumstances, and what kind of response is required, depends on the culture and the social situation of the people concerned.\n\nMany behaviours can be rude. These often depend upon the context, including time, place, and culture.\n\nThis includes a failure to dress appropriately for an occasion, whether by dressing too informally, too formally, immodestly, or otherwise inappropriately (e.g., a young woman in public without a veil in Iran; a young woman in public with a veil in France). C. S. Lewis writes that \"A girl in the Pacific islands wearing hardly any clothes and a Victorian lady completely covered in clothes might both be equally 'modest,' proper, or decent, according to the standards of their own societies\"—but that in each culture, the idea of immodest, improper, and indecent dress existed, and that violating the culture's standard was rude.\n\nRude behaviours often disturb other people, such as making noise or playing loud music. An acceptable level of sound depends on the context: yelling might be the only way to be heard at a noisy construction site, and rock concerts are expected to feature loud music, but a conversation at a normal level, either by telephone or in person, might be rude in an environment where a reasonable degree of silence is expected, such as a library, and complete silence is expected at other times, such as during religious ceremonies or performances of classical music. This includes speaking over a presentation or film with no consideration for the other viewers. Similarly, poor table manners can disturb or disgust nearby people, as can yawning, coughing, farting or sneezing without covering the mouth.\n\nOther rude behaviours have the effect of communicating disrespect for other people. In extreme cases, this can rise to complete and deliberate social exclusion of the disrespected person; in others, the rudeness is only temporary and may be unintentional. For example, it can be rude to use electronic devices, such as mobile phones, if this results in ignoring someone or otherwise indicating that the present company is less interesting or important than the people elsewhere or the text messages they send. Similarly, cutting in line signals that the person cutting in the line believes themselves to be more important that the people their action delays. Barging into someone else's space without permission, whether that be a violation of personal space or crashing a party, is rude because it does not respect the person's property rights or right to make personal choices.\n\nOther examples include:\n\n"}
{"id": "37707389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37707389", "title": "Seances (film)", "text": "Seances (film)\n\nSeances is a 2016 interactive project by filmmaker and installation artist Guy Maddin, co-creators Evan and Galen Johnson, and the National Film Board of Canada, combining Maddin's recreations of lost films with an algorithmic film generator that allows for multiple storytelling permutations. Maddin began the project in 2012 in Paris, France, shooting footage for 18 films at the Centre Georges Pompidou (this installation was titled \"Spiritismes\", the French word for “seances,” leading to press confusion about the project title) and continued shooting footage for an additional 12 films at the Phi Centre in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. The Paris and Montreal shoots each took three weeks, with Maddin completing one short film of approximately 15-20 minutes each day. The shoots were also presented as art installation projects, during which Maddin, along with the cast and crew, held a “séance” during which Maddin \"invite[d] the spirit of a lost photoplay to possess them.\"\n\n\"Seances\" grew out of Maddin’s \"Hauntings\" project. Noah Cowan, a former director of the Toronto International Film Festival, told Maddin “he didn’t think it was possible to make art on the Internet,” which “reminded [Maddin] of what people said about cinema when it was starting out, when the moviolas and kinetoscopes were considered artless novelties.”\n\nMaddin began with the idea of “shooting adaptations of lost films” and originally conceived the project as making “title-for-title remakes of specific lost films” but altered this plan in favour of producing original material as the project developed. Maddin completed 11 films to show as installation loops for Noah Cowan and the Toronto International Film Festival’s Bell Lightbox theatre for this 2010 \"Hauntings\" project.\n\nAt the SXSW 2012 festival, Maddin announced that he had begun production on the \"Seances\" project, for which he would shoot one hundred short films within a hundred-day span, at locations in Canada, France, and the United States. However, Maddin abandoned this approach to the project to focus more fully on original script creation, partnering with writers Evan Johnson and Robert Kotyk, with additional writing by Maddin’s wife Kim Morgan and American poet John Ashbery.\n\nMaddin and Johnson also co-directed and shot, concurrently, a feature film titled \"The Forbidden Room\", with the same writers. Although often misreported as the same project, \"The Forbidden Room\" “is a feature film with its own separate story and stars” while “\"Seances\" will be an interactive Internet project.” Many of the actors in \"Seances\" also appear in \"The Forbidden Room\".\n\nEach viewer sees a unique film. Software designed by Halifax-based Nickel Media utilizes an algorithm to create the narrative from scenes shot by Maddin, to form a 10- to 13-minute film, each with a unique title. The number of films ensures \"hundreds of billions of unique permutations.\"\n\n\"Seances\" was launched on April 14, online and as part of Tribeca Film Festival’s Storyscapes program. \n\nIn addition to reimagining lost films, Maddin is also \"resurrecting\" projects that were planned but never filmed. Maddin has stated that he will not be parodying or otherwise mimicking the approach of the directors whose films he is reenvisioning, but rather tried to capture the imagined \"spirits of the films, rather than of their directors.\" Films will not be shown in their entirety, but rather, offered as fragments in order to be recombined online.\n\nThe following films were filmed at Centre Pompidou, Paris, February 22 - March 12, 2012. \n\nAn additional film, \"How to Take a Bath\" (lost Dwain Esper sexploitation film, 1937, USA) was scripted by American poet John Ashbery and completed in 2010.\" Footage from this film appears in \"The Forbidden Room\". In addition, Ashbery has given [Maddin] a copy of his collage-play \"The Inn of the Guardian Angel\", which was produced from \"New York Times\" obituaries and 1930 Hollywood fanzines, to \"strip-mine for dialogue for the lost films.\"\n\nThe following works were refilmed at Centre PHI, Montreal, July 7–20, 2013.\n\n\nIn April 2017, \"Seances\" received a Webby Award nomination in the Art & Experimental/Film & Video category. \n\n"}
{"id": "22679231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22679231", "title": "Semigroup with involution", "text": "Semigroup with involution\n\nIn mathematics, particularly in abstract algebra, a semigroup with involution or a *-semigroup is a semigroup equipped with an involutive anti-automorphism, which—roughly speaking—brings it closer to a group because this involution, considered as unary operator, exhibits certain fundamental properties of the operation of taking the inverse in a group: uniqueness, double application \"cancelling itself out\", and the same interaction law with the binary operation as in the case of the group inverse. It is thus not a surprise that any group is a semigroup with involution. However, there are significant natural examples of semigroups with involution that are not groups.\n\nAn example from linear algebra is the multiplicative monoid of real square matrices of order \"n\" (called the full linear monoid). The map which sends a matrix to its transpose is an involution because the transpose is well defined for any matrix and obeys the law , which has the same form of interaction with multiplication as taking inverses has in the general linear group (which is a subgroup of the full linear monoid). However, for an arbitrary matrix \"AA\" does not equal the identity element (namely the diagonal matrix). Another example, coming from formal language theory, is the free semigroup generated by a nonempty set (an alphabet), with string concatenation as the binary operation, and the involution being the map which reverses the linear order of the letters in a string. A third example, from basic set theory, is the set of all binary relations between a set and itself, with the involution being the converse relation, and the multiplication given by the usual composition of relations.\n\nSemigroups with involution appeared explicitly named in a 1953 paper of Viktor Wagner (in Russian) as result of his attempt to bridge the theory of semigroups with that of semiheaps.\n\nLet \"S\" be a semigroup with its binary operation written multiplicatively. An involution in \"S\" is a unary operation * on \"S\" (or, a transformation * : \"S\" → \"S\", \"x\" ↦ \"x\"*) satisfying the following conditions:\n\nThe semigroup \"S\" with the involution * is called a semigroup with involution.\n\nSemigroups that satisfy only the first of these axioms belong to the larger class of U-semigroups.\n\nIn some applications, the second of these axioms has been called antidistributive. Regarding the natural philosophy of this axiom, H.S.M. Coxeter remarked that it \"becomes clear when we think of [x] and [y] as the operations of putting on our socks and shoes, respectively.\"\n\n\nAn element \"x\" of a semigroup with involution is sometimes called \"hermitian\" (by analogy with a Hermitian matrix) when it is left invariant by the involution, meaning \"x\"* = \"x\". Elements of the form \"xx\"* or \"x\"*\"x\" are always hermitian, and so are all powers of a hermitian element. As noted in the examples section, a semigroup \"S\" is an inverse semigroup if and only if \"S\" is a regular semigroup and admits an involution such that every idempotent is hermitian.\n\nCertain basic concepts may be defined on *-semigroups in a way that parallels the notions stemming from a regular element in a semigroup. A \"partial isometry\" is an element \"s\" such that \"ss\"*\"s\" = \"s\"; the set of partial isometries of a semigroup \"S\" is usually abbreviated PI(\"S\"). A \"projection\" is an idempotent element \"e\" that is also hermitian, meaning that \"ee\" = \"e\" and \"e\"* = \"e\". Every projection is a partial isometry, and for every partial isometry \"s\", \"s\"*\"s\" and \"ss\"* are projections. If \"e\" and \"f\" are projections, then \"e\" = \"ef\" if and only if \"e\" = \"fe\".\n\nPartial isometries can be partially ordered by \"s\" ≤ \"t\" defined as holding whenever \"s\" = \"ss\"*\"t\" and \"ss\"* = \"ss\"*\"tt\"*. Equivalently, \"s\" ≤ \"t\" if and only if \"s\" = \"et\" and \"e\" = \"ett\"* for some projection \"e\". In a *-semigroup, PI(\"S\") is an ordered groupoid with the partial product given by \"s\"⋅\"t\" = \"st\" if \"s\"*\"s\" = \"tt\"*.\n\nIn terms of examples for these notions, in the *-semigroup of binary relations on a set, the partial isometries are the relations that are difunctional. The projections in this *-semigroup are the partial equivalence relations.\n\nThe partial isometries in a C*-algebra are exactly those defined in this section. In the case of \"M\"(C) more can be said. If \"E\" and \"F\" are projections, then \"E\" ≤ \"F\" if and only if im\"E\" ⊆ im\"F\". For any two projection, if \"E\" ∩ \"F\" = \"V\", then the unique projection \"J\" with image \"V\" and kernel the orthogonal complement of \"V\" is the meet of \"E\" and \"F\". Since projections form a meet-semilattice, the partial isometries on \"M\"(C) form an inverse semigroup with the product formula_1.\n\nAnother simple example of these notions appears in the next section.\n\nThere two related, but not identical notions of regularity in *-semigroups. They were introduced nearly simultaneously by Nordahl & Scheiblich (1978) and respectively Drazin (1979).\n\nAs mentioned in the previous examples, inverse semigroups are a subclass of *-semigroups. It is also textbook knowledge that an inverse semigroup can be characterized as a regular semigroup in which any two idempotents commute. In 1963, Boris M. Schein has published the following two axioms providing an analogous characterization of inverse semigroups as a subvariety of *-semigroups:\n\n\nThe first of these looks like the definition of a regular element, but is actually in terms of the involution. Likewise, the second axiom appears to be describing the commutation of two idempotents. It is known however that regular semigroups do not form a variety because their class does not contain free objects (a result established by D. B. McAlister in 1968). This line of reasoning motivated Nordahl and Scheiblich to begin in 1977 the study of the (variety of) *-semigroups that satisfy only the first these two axioms; because of the similarity in form with the property defining regular semigroups, they named this variety regular *-semigroups.\n\nIt is a simple calculation to establish that a regular *-semigroup is also a regular semigroup because \"x\"* turns out to be an inverse of \"x\". The rectangular band from example 7 is a regular *-semigroup that is not an inverse semigroup. It is also easy to verify that in a regular *-semigroup the product of any two projections is an idempotent. In the aforementioned rectangular band example, the projections are elements of the form (\"x\", \"x\") and [like all elements of a band] are idempotent. However, two different projections in this band need not commute, nor is their product necessarily a projection since (\"a\", \"a\")(\"b\", \"b\") = (\"a\", \"b\").\n\nSemigroups that satisfy only \"x\"** = \"x\" = \"xx\"*\"x\" (but not necessarily the antidistributivity of * over multiplication) have also been studied under the name of I-semigroups.\n\nThe problem of characterizing when a regular semigroup is a regular *-semigroup (in the sense of Nordahl & Scheiblich) was addressed by M. Yamada (1982). He defined a P-system F(S) as subset of the idempotents of S, denoted as usual by E(S). Using the usual notation V(\"a\") for the inverses of \"a\", F(S) needs to satisfy the following axioms:\n\n\nA regular semigroup S is a *-regular semigroup, as defined by Nordahl & Scheiblich, if and only if it has a p-system F(S). In this case F(S) is the set of projections of S with respect to the operation ° defined by F(S). In an inverse semigroup the entire semilattice of idempotents is a p-system. Also, if a regular semigroup S has a p-system that is multiplicatively closed (i.e. subsemigroup), then S is an inverse semigroup. Thus, a p-system may be regarded as a generalization of the semilattice of idempotents of an inverse semigroup.\n\nA semigroup \"S\" with an involution * is called a *-regular semigroup (in the sense of Drazin) if for every \"x\" in \"S\", \"x\"* is \"H\"-equivalent to some inverse of \"x\", where \"H\" is the Green’s relation \"H\". This defining property can be formulated in several equivalent ways. Another is to say that every \"L\"-class contains a projection. An axiomatic definition is the condition that for every \"x\" in \"S\" there exists an element \"x\"′ such that , , , . Michael P. Drazin first proved that given \"x\", the element \"x′\" satisfying these axioms is unique. It is called the Moore–Penrose inverse of \"x\". This agrees with the classical definition of the Moore–Penrose inverse of a square matrix.\nIn the multiplicative semigroup \"M\"(\"C\") of square matrices of order \"n\", the map which assigns a matrix \"A\" to its Hermitian conjugate \"A\"* is an involution. The semigroup \"M\"(\"C\") is a *-regular semigroup with this involution. The Moore–Penrose inverse of A in this *-regular semigroup is the classical Moore–Penrose inverse of \"A\".\n\nAs with all varieties, the category of semigroups with involution admits free objects. The construction of a free semigroup (or monoid) with involution is based on that of a free semigroup (and respectively that of a free monoid). Moreover, the construction of a free group can easily be derived by refining the construction of a free monoid with involution.\n\nThe generators of a free semigroup with involution are the elements of the union of two (equinumerous) disjoint sets in bijective correspondence: formula_2. (Here the notation formula_3 emphasized that the union is actually a disjoint union.) In the case were the two sets are finite, their union \"Y\" is sometimes called an \"alphabet with involution\" or a \"symmetric alphabet\". Let formula_4 be a bijection; formula_5 is naturally extended to a bijection formula_6 essentially by taking the disjoint union of formula_5 (as a set) with its inverse, or in piecewise notation:\n\nNow construct formula_9 as the free semigroup on formula_10 in the usual way with the binary (semigroup) operation on formula_9 being concatenation:\n\nThe bijection formula_14 on formula_15 is then extended as a bijection formula_16 defined as the string reversal of the elements of formula_9 that consist of more than one letter:\n\nThis map is an involution on the semigroup formula_9. Thus, the semigroup formula_20 with the map formula_21 is a semigroup with involution, called a free semigroup with involution on \"X\". (The irrelevance of the concrete identity of formula_22 and of the bijection formula_5 in this choice of terminology is explained below in terms of the universal property of the construction.) Note that unlike in example 6, the involution \"of every letter\" is a distinct element in an alphabet with involution, and consequently the same observation extends to a free semigroup with involution.\n\nIf in the above construction instead of formula_9 we use the free monoid formula_25, which is just the free semigroup extended with the empty word formula_26 (which is the identity element of the monoid formula_27), and suitably extend the involution with formula_28,\nwe obtain a free monoid with involution.\n\nThe construction above is actually the only way to extend a given map formula_29 from formula_30 to formula_31, to an involution on formula_9 (and likewise on formula_27). The qualifier \"free\" for these constructions is justified in the usual sense that they are universal constructions. In the case of the free semigroup with involution, given an arbitrary semigroup with involution formula_34 and a map formula_35, then a semigroup homomorphism formula_36 exists such that formula_37, where formula_38 is the inclusion map and composition of functions is taken in diagram order. The construction of formula_20 as a semigroup with involution is unique up to isomorphism. An analogous argument holds for the free monoid with involution in terms of monoid homomorphisms and the uniqueness up to isomorphism of the construction of formula_40 as a monoid with involution.\n\nThe construction of a free group is not very far off from that of a free monoid with involution. The additional ingredient needed is to define a notion of reduced word and a rewriting rule for producing such words simply by deleting any adjacent pairs of letter of the form formula_41 or formula_42. It can be shown than the order of rewriting (deleting) such pairs does not matter, i.e. any order of deletions produces the same result. (Otherwise put it, these rules define a confluent rewriting system.) Equivalently, a free group is constructed from a free monoid with involution by taking the quotient of the latter by the congruence formula_43, which is sometimes called the Dyck congruence—in a certain sense it generalizes Dyck language to multiple kinds of \"parentheses\", however simplification in the Dyck congruence takes place regardless of order, e.g. if \")\" is the inverse of \"(\", then formula_44; the one-sided congruence that appears in the Dyck language proper formula_45, which instantiates only to formula_46 is (perhaps confusingly) called the Shamir congruence. The quotient of a free monoid with involution by the Shamir congruence is not a group, but a monoid ; nevertheless it has been called the free half group by its first discoverer—Eli Shamir— although more recently it has been called the involutive monoid generated by \"X\". (This latter choice of terminology conflicts however with the use of \"involutive\" to denote any semigroup with involution— a practice also encountered in the literature.)\n\nA Baer *-semigroup is a *-semigroup with (two-sided) zero in which the right annihilator of every element coincides with the right ideal of some projection; this property is expressed formally as: for all \"x\" ∈ \"S\" there exists a projection \"e\" such that\n\nThe projection \"e\" is in fact uniquely determined by \"x\".\n\nMore recently, Baer *-semigroups have been also called Foulis semigroups, after David James Foulis who studied them in depth.\n\nThe set of all binary relations on a set (from example 5) is a Baer *-semigroup.\n\nBaer *-semigroups are also encountered in quantum mechanics, in particular as the multiplicative semigroups of Baer *-rings.\n\nIf \"H\" is a Hilbert space, then the multiplicative semigroup of all bounded operators on \"H\" is a Baer *-semigroup. The involution in this case maps an operator to its adjoint.\n\nBaer *-semigroup allow the coordinatization of orthomodular lattices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43467592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43467592", "title": "Spoon theory", "text": "Spoon theory\n\nThe spoon theory is a disability metaphor and neologism used to explain the reduced amount of energy available for activities of living and productive tasks that may result from disability or chronic illness. Spoons are a visual representation used as a unit of measure in order to quantify how much energy a person has throughout a given day. Each activity requires a given number of spoons, which will only be replaced as the person \"recharges\" through rest. A person who runs out of spoons has no choice but to rest until their spoons are replenished.\n\nThis metaphor is used to describe the planning that many people have to do to conserve and ration their energy reserves to accomplish their activities of daily living. The planning and rationing of energy-consuming tasks has been described as being a major concern of those with chronic and fatigue-related diseases, illness, or conditions. The theory explains the difference between those who don't seem to have energy limits and those that do. The theory is used to facilitate discussions between those with limited energy reserves and those without. Because healthy people typically are not concerned with the energy expended during ordinary tasks such as bathing and getting dressed, the theory helps healthy people realize the amount of energy expended by chronically ill or disabled people to get through the day.\n\nSpoons are widely discussed within autoimmune, disability, mental and other chronic illness online communities, as an emic descriptor. The term \"spoonie\" is sometimes used to refer to a person with a chronic illness that can be explained with the spoon theory.\n\nThe term \"spoons\" was coined by Christine Miserandino in 2003 in her essay \"The Spoon Theory\". The essay describes a conversation between Miserandino and a friend. The discussion was initiated by a question from the friend in which she asked about what having lupus feels like. The essay then describes the actions of Miserandino who took spoons from nearby tables to use as a visual aid. She handed her friend twelve spoons and asked her to describe the events of a typical day, taking a spoon away for each activity. In this way, she demonstrated that her spoons, or units of energy, must be rationed to avoid running out before the end of the day. Miserandino also asserted that it is possible to exceed one's daily limit, but that doing so means borrowing from the future and may result in not having enough spoons the next day. Miserandino suggested the spoon theory can describe the effects of mental illnesses as well.\n\nAccording to the spoon theory, spoons (units of energy) may be replaced after rest or a night of sleep. However, people with chronic diseases, such as autoimmune diseases, and various disabilities may have sleep difficulties. This can result in a particularly low supply of energy. Some disabled people may not be fatigued by the disabilities themselves, but by the constant effort required to pass as non-disabled.\n\n"}
{"id": "27582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27582", "title": "Stimulus–response model", "text": "Stimulus–response model\n\nThe stimulus–response model is a characterization of a statistical unit (such as a neuron) as a black box model, predicting a quantitative response to a quantitative stimulus, for example one administered by a researcher.\n\nStimulus–response models are applied in international relations, \nrisk assessment, \nneurally-inspired system design,\nand many other fields.\n\nThe object of a stimulus–response model is to establish a mathematical function that describes the relation \"f\" between the stimulus \"x\" and the expected value (or other measure of location) of the response \"Y\":\n\nA common simplification assumed for such functions is linear, thus we expect to see a relationship like\n\nStatistical theory for linear models has been well developed for more than fifty years, and a standard form of analysis called linear regression has been developed.\n"}
{"id": "921689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=921689", "title": "The Moscow rules", "text": "The Moscow rules\n\nThe Moscow rules are rules-of-thumb said to have been developed during the Cold War to be used by spies and others working in Moscow.\n\nThe rules are associated with Moscow because the city developed a reputation as being a particularly harsh locale for clandestine operatives who were exposed. The list may never have existed as written.\n\nAgent Tony Mendez wrote:Although no one had written them down, they were the precepts we all understood for conducting operations in the most difficult of operating environments: the Soviet capital. By the time they got to Moscow, everyone knew these rules. They were dead simple and full of common sense.In the International Spy Museum in Washington, D.C., the Moscow Rules are given as:\n\nOther rules which have been circulated around the Internet and used in fiction include:\n\n\nMoscow rules are prominently referenced in John le Carré's cold war books including \"Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy\" and \"Smiley's People\", as tradecraft, including use of inconspicuous signal markers (drawing pins, chalk marks), the use of dead drops, and the ways to signal the need for a (rare) face-to-face meeting. Moscow Rules are important at the beginning of \"Smiley's People,\" where the General invokes the rules to request a meeting with Smiley, but he is followed and killed by KGB assassins before it can happen. The applicable rule states that no documents may be carried that cannot be instantly discarded, in this instance a 35mm negative concealed in an empty pack of cigarettes.\n\nIn \"Spooks\" there are references to the Moscow Rules. In particular, in Season 6 Episode 10, Harry Pearce tells someone, \"Treat London as enemy territory, keep your head down, find an opportunity, and make a move.\" In an earlier episode in Season 5, rogue MI6 agent Richard Dempsey is said to be in disguise and following the Moscow Rules, where the idea of treating the place as enemy territory is repeated.\n\nIn \"The Middleman\", episode 8 (the \"Ectoplasmic Pan-Hellenic Investigation\"), the Moscow Rules are recited.\n\n"}
{"id": "1515577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1515577", "title": "Three Treasures (Taoism)", "text": "Three Treasures (Taoism)\n\nThe Three Treasures or Three Jewels () are basic virtues in Taoism. Although the \"Tao Te Ching\" originally used \"sanbao\" to mean \"compassion\", \"frugality\", and \"humility\", the term was later used to translate the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha) in Chinese Buddhism, and to mean the Three Treasures (jing, qi, and shen) in Traditional Chinese Medicine.\n\n\"Sanbao\" \"three treasures\" first occurs in \"Tao Te Ching\" chapter 67, which Lin Yutang (1948:292) says contains Laozi's \"most beautiful teachings\":\n天下皆謂我道大，似不肖。夫唯大，故似不肖。若肖久矣。其細也夫！我有三寶，持而保之。一曰慈，二曰儉，三曰不敢為天下先。慈故能勇；儉故能廣；不敢為天下先，故能成器長。今舍慈且勇；舍儉且廣；舍後且先；死矣！夫慈以戰則勝，以守則固。天將救之，以慈衛之。\nEvery one under heaven says that our Way is greatly like folly. But it is just because it is great, that it seems like folly. As for things that do not seem like folly — well, there can be no question about \"their\" smallness!<br>\nHere are my three treasures. Guard and keep them! The first is pity; the second, frugality; the third, refusal to be 'foremost of all things under heaven'. <br>\nFor only he that pities is truly able to be brave; <br>\nOnly he that is frugal is able to be profuse. <br>\nOnly he that refuses to be foremost of all things <br>\nIs truly able to become chief of all Ministers. <br>\nAt present your bravery is not based on pity, nor your profusion on frugality, nor your vanguard on your rear; and this is death. But pity cannot fight without conquering or guard without saving. Heaven arms with pity those whom it would not see destroyed. (tr. Waley 1958:225)\n\nArthur Waley describes these Three Treasures as, \"The three rules that formed the practical, political side of the author's teaching (1) abstention from aggressive war and capital punishment, (2) absolute simplicity of living, (3) refusal to assert active authority.\"\n\nThe first of the Three Treasures is \"ci\" (), which is also a Classical Chinese term for \"mother\" (with \"tender love, nurturing \" semantic associations). \"Tao Te Ching\" chapters 18 and 19 parallel \"ci\" (\"parental love\") with \"xiao\" (孝 \"filial love; filial piety\"). Wing-tsit Chan (1963:219) believes \"the first is the most important\" of the Three Treasures, and compares \"ci\" with Confucianist \"ren\" (仁 \"humaneness; benevolence\"), which the \"Tao Te Ching\" (e.g., chapters 5 and 38) mocks.\n\nThe second is \"jian\" (), a practice that the \"Tao Te Ching\" (e.g., chapter 59) praises. Ellen M. Chen (1989:209) believes \"jian\" is \"organically connected\" with the Taoist metaphor \"pu\" (樸 \"uncarved wood; simplicity\"), and \"stands for the economy of nature that does not waste anything. When applied to the moral life it stands for the simplicity of desire.\"\n\nThe third treasure is a six-character phrase instead of a single word: \"Bugan wei tianxia xian\" 不敢為天下先 \"not dare to be first/ahead in the world\". \nChen notes that\nThe third treasure, daring not be at the world's front, is the Taoist way to avoid premature death. To be at the world's front is to expose oneself, to render oneself vulnerable to the world's destructive forces, while to remain behind and to be humble is to allow oneself time to fully ripen and bear fruit. This is a treasure whose secret spring is the fear of losing one's life before one's time. This fear of death, out of a love for life, is indeed the key to Taoist wisdom. (1989:209) \n\nIn the Mawangdui Silk Texts version of the \"Tao Te Ching\", this traditional \"Three Treasures\" chapter 67 is chapter 32, following the traditional last chapter (81, 31). Based upon this early silk manuscript, Robert G. Henricks (1989:160) concludes that \"Chapters 67, 68, and 69 should be read together as a unit.\" Besides some graphic variants and phonetic loan characters, like \"ci\" (兹 \"mat, this\") for \"ci\" (慈 \"compassion, love\", clarified with the \"heart radical\" 心), the most significant difference with the received text is the addition of \"heng\" (恆, \"constantly, always\") with \"I constantly have three …\" (我恆有三) instead of \"I have three …\" (我有三).\n\nThe language of the \"Tao Te Ching\" is notoriously difficult to translate, as illustrated by the diverse English renditions of \"Three Treasures\" below.\n\nA consensus translation of the Three Treasures could be: compassion or love, frugality or simplicity, and humility or modesty.\n\nIn addition to these Taoist \"Three Treasures\", Chinese \"sanbao\" can also refer to the Three Treasures in Traditional Chinese Medicine or the Three Jewels in Buddhism. Victor H. Mair (1990:110) notes that Chinese Buddhists chose the Taoist term \"sanbao\" to translate Sanskrit \"triratna\" or \"ratnatraya\" (\"three jewels\"), and \"It is not at all strange that the Taoists would take over this widespread ancient Indian expression and use it for their own purposes.\"\n\nErik Zürcher, who studied influences of Buddhist doctrinal terms in Daoism, noted (1980:115) two later meanings of \"sanbao\": \"Dao\" 道 \"the Way\", \"jing\" 經 \"the Scriptures\", and \"shi\" 師 \"the Master\" seems to be patterned after Buddhist usage; \"Tianbao jun\" 天寶君 \"Lord of Celestial Treasure\", \"Lingbao jun\" 靈寶君 \"Lord of Numinous Treasure\", and \"Shenbao jun\" 神寶君 \"Lord of Divine Treasure\" are the \"Sanyuan\" 三元 \"Three Primes\" of the Lingbao School.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "520237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=520237", "title": "Trait ascription bias", "text": "Trait ascription bias\n\nTrait ascription bias is the tendency for people to view \"themselves\" as relatively variable in terms of personality, behavior and mood while viewing others as much more predictable in their personal traits across different situations. More specifically, it is a tendency to describe one's own behaviour in terms of situational factors while preferring to describe another's behaviour by ascribing fixed dispositions to their personality. This may occur because peoples' own internal states are more readily observable and available to them than those of others.\n\nThis attributional bias intuitively plays a role in the formation and maintenance of stereotypes and prejudice, combined with the negativity effect. However, trait ascription and trait-based models of personality remain contentious in modern psychology and social science research. Trait ascription bias refers to the situational and dispositional evaluation and description of personality traits on a personal level. A similar bias on the group level is called the outgroup homogeneity bias.\n\nTrait ascription and the cognitive bias associated with it have been a topic of active research for more than three decades. Like many other cognitive biases, trait ascription bias is supported by a substantial body of experimental research and has been explained in terms of numerous theoretical frameworks originating in various disciplines. Among these frameworks are attribution theory (related to how people determine causes of observed events), theories of personality description such as the five factor model, and work regarding the circumstances under which personality assessments are valid. Seminal work includes Turner, Jones, Kammer, and Funder. Incorrectly ascribing traits to other persons based on limited information or observations intuitively plays a role in the formation and perpetuation of some social phenomena such as stereotypes and prejudice. As such, methods to mitigate the effect of trait ascription bias on personality assessments outside of the lab are also of interest to social scientists. Although trait-oriented theories of personality description, and indeed the very notion of universal, enduring traits themselves, have a natural appeal, some researchers are critical of their existence outside of the laboratory and present results which imply trait ascription, and consequently trait ascription bias, are simply residue of the methodologies historically used to \"detect\" them. Criticism is based either on the non-existence of personality traits (contrary to five factor descriptions), or suggest divergent interpretations of results and alternative mechanisms of ascription, limiting the scope of existing work.\n\nThe empirical evidence supporting trait ascription and the psychological mechanisms underpinning it comes from a diverse body of research in psychology and the social sciences.\n\nJones and Nisbett were among the first to argue that people are biased in how they tend to ascribe traits and dispositions to others that they would not ascribe to themselves. Motivated by the classic example of the student explaining poor performance to a supervisor (in which the supervisor might superficially believe the student's explanations but really thinks the performance is due to \"enduring qualities\": lack of ability, laziness, ineptitude, etc.) their actor-observer asymmetry argument forms the basis of discourse on trait ascription bias.\n\nIn a 1982 study involving fifty-six undergraduate psychology students from the University of Bielefeld, Kammer et al. demonstrated that subjects rated their own variability on each of 20 trait terms to be considerably higher than their peers. Building on the earlier work of Jones and Nisbett, which suggests people describe the behaviour of others in terms of fixed dispositions while viewing their own behaviour as the dynamic product of complex situational factors, Kammer hypothesized that one's own behaviours are judged to be less consistent (i.e. not as predictable) but of higher intensities (with regard to particular traits) than the behaviour of others. The experiment had each student describe themselves as well as a same-sex friend using two identical lists of trait-descriptive terms. For example, for the trait of dominance the student was first asked \"In general, how dominant are you?\" and then \"How much do you vary from one situation to another in how dominant you are?\" Kammer's results strongly supported his hypothesis.\n\nDavid C. Funder's work on the \"trait\" of ascribing personality traits investigates the psychology of individuals who tend not to grant others the variability (i.e. lack of predictability) they grant themselves, instead preferring to ascribe traits and infer dispositional explanations of behaviour. It had been generally established that people ascribe more traits to others than to themselves, known as the actor-observer asymmetry in attribution, but Funder's hypthothesis was that some individuals are more inclined to make dispositional trait attributions than others, regardless of who they are describing. In the experiment, sixty-three undergraduates filled out a series of questionnaires which asked them to describe themselves, their best friend, and an acquaintance. For each of twenty pairs of polar opposite trait terms (e.g. \"friendly—unfriendly\") subjects either ranked the person on a discrete scale or chose \"depends on the situation\", allowing the subject to \"not make a dispositional ascription.\" Based on third-party Q-Sort personality descriptions of the subjects, certain negative personality traits were correlated with those subjects who tended to ascribe dispositions to others, while traits such as \"charming\", \"interesting\", and \"sympathetic\" were associated with those who preferred not to ascribe traits. This result is consistent with the type of personality commonly associated with promoting stereotypes and prejudice.\n\nWhile trait ascription bias has been described by empirical results from various disciplines, most notably psychology and social psychology, explaining the mechanism of the bias remains a contentious issue in the theory of personality description literature.\n\nTversky and Kahneman describe a cognitive heuristic that suggests people make judgments (including about other people's personalities) on the basis of how easily examples of their (other people's) behaviour come to mind. This would appear to be consistent with the arguments of Jones and Nisbett and the results observed by others which found that people ascribe fewer traits to friends than to acquaintances, and fewer still traits to themselves than to friends, implying ease of recall might be a factor.\n\nAttribution plays a role in how people understand and judge the causes of the behaviour of others, which in turn affects how they ascribe traits to others. \"Attributional\" theory is concerned with how people subsequently judge behavioural causes, which also bears relevance to trait ascription and related biases. In particular, attribution (and attributional) theory can help explain the mechanism by which individuals defer to ascribing dispositional traits vs. situational variability to observers.\n\nThe big five personality traits (or five factor model) arguably provides a robust set of traits by which personalities can be accurately described. It supports the notion that there are cross-cultural, enduring traits which manifest in behaviour and can, if correctly ascribed to individuals, provide an actor with predictive power over an observer.\n\nTrait ascription bias, regardless of the theoretical mechanisms underpinning it, intuitively plays a role in various social phenomenon observed in the wild. Stereotyping, attitudes of prejudice and the negativity effect, among others, involve ascribing dispositions (traits) to other people on the basis of little information, no information or simply \"gut instincts\", which amounts to trait ascription bias. As such, some researchers are interested in mitigating cognitive biases to reduce their effects on society.\n\nTrait ascription bias has received criticism on a number of fronts. In particular, some have argued that trait ascription, and the notion of traits, are merely artefacts of methodology and that results contrary to conventional wisdom can be achieved with simple changes to the experimental designs used. Furthermore, the theoretical bases for trait ascription bias are criticized for failing to recognize constraints and \"questionable conceptual\" assumptions.\n"}
{"id": "2514942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2514942", "title": "Whitechapel Vigilance Committee", "text": "Whitechapel Vigilance Committee\n\nThe Whitechapel Vigilance Committee was a group of local volunteers who patrolled the streets of London's Whitechapel District during the period of the Whitechapel murders of 1888. The volunteers patrolled mainly at night in the search of the murderer. The committee was set up by local businessmen who were concerned that the killings were affecting commerce in the area. It was led by George Lusk, a local builder who was elected chairman during the committee's first meeting on 10 September 1888.\n\nOther committee members included Publican Joseph Aarons (treasurer), Mr. B. Harris (secretary), and Messrs. Barnett, Cohen, H. A. Harris, Hodgkins, Houghton, Isaacs, Jacobs, Laughton, Lindsay, Lord, Mitchell, Reeves, and Rogers. The \"Daily Telegraph\" reported on 5 October 1888 that the leading members of the committee were \"drawn principally from the trading class, and include a builder, a cigar-manufacturer, a tailor, a picture-frame maker, a licensed victualler, and 'an actor.'\" The latter was probably the entertainer Charles Reeves.\n\nAs chairman of the committee, Lusk's name appeared in the national newspapers and on posters in Whitechapel appealing for information concerning the identity of Jack the Ripper and complaining about the lack of a reward for such information from the government. Due to this publicity, Lusk received threatening letters through the post, allegedly from the murderer. Lusk is also mentioned in a letter dated 17 September 1888, reportedly discovered among archive materials in the late 20th century; however, most experts dismiss this as a modern hoax.\n\nOn 30 September 1888 the committee members wrote to the government under Lord Salisbury in an attempt to persuade them to offer a reward for information leading to the apprehension of the killer. When the Home Secretary Henry Matthews refused, the committee offered its own reward. The committee also employed two private detectives, Mr. Le Grand (or Grand) and Mr. J. H. Batchelor, to investigate the murders without the involvement of the local police.\n\nThe committee was unhappy with the level of protection that the community was receiving from the police, so it introduced its own system of local patrols, using hand-picked unemployed men to patrol the streets of the East End every evening from midnight to between four and five the next morning. Each of these men received a small wage from the Committee, and patrolled a particular beat, being armed with a police whistle, a pair of galoshes and a strong stick. The committee itself met each evening at nine in The Crown, and once the public house closed at 12.30 am the committee members would inspect and join the patrols. These patrols were shortly to be joined by those of the Working Men's Vigilance Committee.\n\nThe \"From Hell\" letter, which was sent with half of a human kidney, was posted to the committee's chairman George Lusk, who received it on 16 October 1888. Many scholars of the Jack the Ripper murders regard this letter as being the communication most likely to have been sent by the killer.\n\n"}
{"id": "11007023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11007023", "title": "Yamato-damashii", "text": "Yamato-damashii\n\nFor this national type of moral character was invented the name \"Yamato-damashi\" (or \"Yamato-gokoro\"), — the Soul of Yamato (or Heart of Yamato), — the appellation of the old province of Yamato, seat of the early emperors, being figuratively used for the entire country. We might correctly, though less literally, interpret the expression \"Yamato-damashi\" as \"The Soul of Old Japan\". (1904:177)\n\nOriginally \"Yamato-damashi\" did not bear the bellicose weight or ideological timbre that it later assumed in pre-war modern Japan. It first occurs in the section of \"The Tale of Genji\" (Chapter 21), as a native virtue that flourishes best, not as a contrast to foreign civilization but, rather precisely, when it is grounded on a solid basis in Chinese learning. Thus we read:\n\nNo, the safe thing is to give him a good, solid fund of knowledge. It is when there is a fund of Chinese learning (\"zae\" 才) that the Japanese spirit (\"yamato-damashii\" 大和魂) is respected in the world. (Murasaki Shikibu, \"The Tale of Genji\" tr. Edward Seidensticker, 1976, 1:362) \n\n\"Yamato-damashii\" \"Japan, Japanese\" compounds \"Yamato\" (, \"great harmony\") with \"damashii\", which is the voiced \"rendaku\" pronunciation of \"tamashii\" ( \"spirit; soul\"). Both these \"kanji\" (Chinese characters used in Japan) readings \"Yamato\" (大和) and \"damashii\" (魂) are native Japanese \"kun'yomi\", while the \"Wakon\" (和魂 \"Japanese spirit\") reading is Sinitic \"on'yomi\" borrowed from Chinese \"Héhún\" (和魂).\n\n\"Yamato\" is historically the second of three common Japanese endonyms (or autonyms) for 'Japan; Japanese'.\nIn current Japanese usage, \"Wa\" 倭 is an archaic variant Chinese character for \"Wa\" 和, \"Yamato\" is a literary and historical term, and \"Nihon\" is the usual name for \"Japan; Japanese\".\n\n\"Tamashii\" or \"tama\" (魂 \"soul; spirit; ghost\" or 霊 \"spirit; soul\") is Japanese \"kun'yomi\", while \"kon\" or \"gon\" is Chinese \"on'yomi\" (from \"hún\" 魂). The Shinto-influenced semantics of Japanese \"tama\"/\"tamashii\" exceed customary English concepts of \"spirit\", \"soul\", or \"ghost\", besides the human soul, it also includes diverse spiritual forces found in nature. Roy Andrew Miller suggests that German \"Geist\" or French \"\" are better translations than English \"spirit\" or \"soul\":\nBut finally we must conclude that nothing in any commonly used European language, including English, really does justice to Japanese \"tama\". The spirit, soul, \"Geist\", or \"élan\" to which the Japanese term has reference, whether it is the \"tama\" of \"Yamato-damashii\" or the \"tama\" of \"kotodama\", is a vital and active entity that plays no part in any usual Western-language imagery or expression. We have no such word, and we make use of no imagery capitalizing upon the concepts that it employs; but the Japanese have, and they do. (1982:131) \n\n\"Kotodama\" (, \"word spirit\", approximately \"magic word\") illustrate this traditional Japanese belief about \"tama(shii)\" energies. \"Kenkyūsha's New Japanese-English Dictionary\" (5th ed., 2003) gives \"kotodama\" translation equivalents and a revealing usage example: \", the soul [spirit] of language; the miraculous power of language [a phrase, a spell]. ̍ ⇨ Japan, \"the land where the mysterious workings of language bring bliss\".\"\n\n\"Yamato nadeshiko\" (, \"Japanese fringed pink\") is a floral metaphor for \"the idealized traditional Japanese woman\". During World War II, ultra-nationalists popularized \"Yamato-nadeshiko\" as the female manifestation of \"Yamato-damashii\".\n\nThe record of \"Yamato-damashii\" dates back one millennium to the Heian period (794–1185) of Japanese history, when Chinese culture and Chinese language were highly influential.\n\n\"Yamato-gokoro\" (大和心 \"Japanese heart; Japanese mind\" is the closest synonym of \"Yamato-damashii\". The Heian poet Akazome Emon first used \"Yamato-gokoro\" in her \"Goshūi Wakashū\" (後拾遺和歌集 \"Later Collection of Waka Gleanings,\" 1086).\n\nSince \"Wa\" 和 commonly abbreviates \"Yamato\" 大和 \"Japan; Japanese\", 和魂 (also read \"Wakon\") is a contraction of \"Yamato-damashii\". The \"Konjaku Monogatarishū\" (circa 1120) first uses it describing a burglar who murdered a nattering scholar of Chinese classical law. \"Although Kiyohara no Yoshizumi (清原善澄) had admirable learning, he is said to have died in this childish way because he did not have the slightest knowledge of the Japanese spirit\" (tr. Carr 1994:283).\n\nFor centuries after its use by Heian authors \"Yamato-damashii\" was rarely recorded until the late Edo period (1600–1868). One Kamakura-period exception is the \"Gukanshō\" history (ca. 1220), which uses \"Yamato-damashii\" (和魂) in praising the character of child Emperor Toba (r. 1107–1123).\n\nThree new \"Japanese spirit\" phrases originated around the 1867 Meiji Restoration. First, the modernization was fashioned by Kyokutei Bakin, a famous samurai author of \"Gesaku\". His \"Chinsetsu Yumiharizuki\" (\"The Crescent Moon\", 1811) quotes Minamoto no Tametomo discussing \"seppuku\" rituals: \"I admit that a person who does not care about dying when on the verge of death may superficially have the Japanese spirit, but I think this is a misunderstanding from not having learned about it.\" (tr. Carr 1994:284). Second, \"Wakon-kansai\" (和魂漢才 \"Japanese spirit and Chinese scholarship\") occurs in the \"Kanke ikai\" (菅家遺戒 \"Sugawara's dying instructions\"). Third, \"Wakon-yōsai\" (和魂洋才 \"Japanese spirit and Western techniques\") was created by Yoshikawa Tadayasu (吉川忠安) in his \"Kaika sakuron\" (開化策論 , \"Questions and Themes on Progress\", 1867).\n\nFollowing the Japanese victories in the First Sino-Japanese War and Russo-Japanese War, nationalists made \"Wakon-yōsai\" into a catchphrase for modernization and militarization, and developed \"Yamato-damashii\" into what Miller (1982:13) calls \"the official rallying cry for the Japanese armed forces in World War II.\"\n\nIn the present day, \"Yamato-damashii\" is historically associated with Japanese nationalism, but is commonly used in \"Nihonjinron\" discussions and sports media. It is the motto for the international Purebred mixed martial arts school headed by Japanese-American Enson Inoue. Professor David Pollack predicts that \"Yamato-damashii\" will become extinct.\nSynthesis comes to an end only when antithesis ceases to appear. For many centuries Japan found its most significant antithesis in China. During the last century and a half the West has been the antithetical term in the dialectic, and as always it has been in that \"other\" that Japan has sought its own image, peering anxiously for signs of its own identity into the mirror of the rest of the world. After the challenge of Western technology has been successfully met, one wonders what will be left that is \"alien,\" besides the very fact that the historically necessary \"other\" is lacking. In that case, \"Japanese spirit\" (Yamato-damashii) will find itself face to face with the most frightening \"other\" of all – its lack – at which point opposition must cease or else feed upon itself. (1986:52-3) \n\nRacially and ethnically offensive words are problematic for dictionaries. Lexicographers and publishers have editorial policies for treating ethnic slurs and insults. For example, The American Heritage Dictionary of the English Language (4th ed., 2000) defines \"Jap\" as \"\"Offensive Slang\". Used as a disparaging term for a person of Japanese birth or descent.\"\n\nMichael Carr argues that \"Yamato-damashii\" (1994:280-1) \"significantly differs from everyday racist slurs because it is not an overt insult, it is the opposite: an ethnic adulation. It belongs to a special category of benedictions such as \"Manifest Destiny\" or \"Chosen People\" that imply national, racial, or ethnic self-conceit.\" The nationalist and racist connotations of Japanese \"Yamato-damashii\" are comparable with German \"Herrenvolk\" (\"Master race\").\n\nCarr lexicographically analyzed \"Yamato-damashii\" definitions among modern general-purpose Japanese dictionaries from four publishers, namely, \"Daijisen\" (Shōgakukan, 1986), \"Daijirin\" (Sanseidō, 1988), \"Nihongo Daijiten\" (Kōdansha, 1989), and \"Kōjien\" (Iwanami, 1991).\n\nFor instance, this definition from the popular \"Daijirin\" dictionary gives the \"kanji\" 大和魂, modern and Old Japanese pronunciations, two meanings, synonyms, and usage examples from Japanese literature.\nやまとだましい［―だましひ］4 【《大和》魂】①大和心。和魂。（漢学を学んで得た知識に対して）日本人固有の実務・世事などを処理する能力・知恵をいう。「才(ざえ)を本としてこそ、―の世に用ゐらるる方も強う侍らめ〔出典： 源氏（乙女）〕」 「露、―無かりける者にて〔出典： 今昔 二十〕」②( 近世以降の国粋思想の中で用いられた語)日本民族固有の精神。日本人としての意識。<br>\nyamato ... -damashii, \"-damashiFi\" \"type 4\" [accent on \"da\"] 【《大和》魂】1. \"yamato-gokoro\". \"wakon\". (in contrast to knowledge obtained from studying Chinese classics) Japanese people's characteristic ability or wisdom/intelligence for managing/treating actual things and worldly affairs. \"The Tale of Genji\" (The Maiden [chapter]) \"Without a solid foundation of book-learning this 'Japanese spirit' of which one hears so much is not of any great use in the world.\" [Tales of] Times Now Past (20) \"He did not have the slightest knowledge of the Japanese spirit.\" 2. (term used in ultra-nationalistic ideology of recent times) characteristic mentality of the Japanese race/people. Consciousness/awareness of being a Japanese person. (tr. Carr 1994:288)\n\nCollectively, these four definitions provide insights into what \"Yamato-damashii\" means in current Japanese usage. They all distinguish two basic meanings: ① \"A Japanese practical ability; opposed to Chinese scholarship\" and ② \"A traditional (bushido/nationalistic) concept of death-defying valor\". When two or more definitions use identical terminology, it suggests consensus on semantics. For instance, while the dictionaries split on whether meaning ① refers to \"Nihon-minzoku\" (日本民族 \"Japanese race/people/nation\") or \"Nihon-jin\" (日本人 \"Japanese person/people\"), all four say the nationalistic meaning ② refers to \"Nihon-minzoku\".\n\nFor meaning ①, the most salient word (used 7 times) is \"koyū\" (固有 \"inherent; innate; characteristic; special quality\"). This sense is defined as a \"noryoku\" (能力 \"ability, capability; competency\") or \"chie\" (知恵 \"wisdom; insight; intelligence\"), which pertains to \"jisseikatsujōno\" (実生活上 \"real life; everyday/practical reality') or \"jitsumutekina\" (実務的な \"actual things, practical experience\").\n\nFor meaning ②, all the definitions describe a \"seishin\" (精神 \"mind; mentality; spirit; soul; genius\"). Specifically a \"Japanese spirit\" with \"kakan\" (果敢 \"boldness; courage; daring; determination\"), \"yūmō\" (勇猛 \"bravery; valor; intrepidness; daring\"), and \"shinmei o mo oshimanai\" (身命をも惜しまない \"without regard for one's life\"), especially when \"koto ni atatte\" (事に当たって \"facing a vital matter; in case of crisis\"). Purity is mentioned with \"seijo\" (清浄 \"purity; cleanliness\") and \"isagiyoi\" (潔い \"pure; clean; honorable; gallant; brave\").\n\nWithin this dictionary sample, only the \"Nihongo daijiten\" qualifies \"Yamato-damashii\" as a characteristic that is \"to sareta\" (とされた \"assumed, supposed; alleged'\"), whereas the other three define it as a matter of fact. Carr concludes (1994:290), \"Believing that all individuals of any race or nationality share certain \"spiritual\" characteristics is at best overgeneralization, or at worst racism.\"\n\nSome monolingual English dictionaries enter \"Yamato\" or \"Yamato-e\", but only the Oxford English Dictionary enters \"Yamato-damashii\".\nYamato (ja'mato) [Jap., = 'Japan']<br>\n1. The style or school of art in Japan which culminated in the 12th and 13th centuries and dealt with Japanese subjects in a distinctively Japanese (rather than Chinese) way. Usu. as Yamato-e (†-we) [\"e\" picture]; also –ryū [-\"ryū\" style, orig. stream, school]. … <br>\n2. Yamato-damashii: the Japanese spirit. … (v. 3, 2002) \nThe \"OED\" gives three usage examples, starting with \"Yamato-damashi\" (1942, \"Royal Air Force Journal\", \"He will be filled with what is called \"yamato damashi\" [sic] or the pure spirit of Japan.\") and \"Yamato-damashii\" (1957, \"Encyclopædia Britannica\"). Note that the 1904 Hearn quotation above antedates this 1942 citation.\n\nMost Japanese-English dictionaries literally translate \"Yamato-damashii\" as \"the Japanese spirit\". For instance, Kenkyūsha's New Japanese-English Dictionary (5th ed., 2003) enters \"Yamato\" \"やまと【大和】 Yamato; (old) Japan\" along with 14 subentries, including \"Yamato-damashii\" \"大和魂 the Japanese spirit\" and \"Yamato-gokoro\" \"大和心 the Japanese spirit; the Japanese sensibility.\"\n\nThe online \"Encyclopedia of Shinto\" (linked below, note the pronunciation file) comprehensively defines Yamato-damashii.\nLiterally, \"Japanese spirit\"; \"Yamato damashii\" is also written 大和魂. This term is often contrasted with \"Chinese Learning\" (\"karasae\"), that is, knowledge and scholarship imported into Japan from China. \"Yamato damashii\" refers to an inherent faculty of common-sense wisdom, resourcefulness, and prudent judgment that is characteristic of, and unique to, the Japanese people. It also refers to a practical, \"real life\" ability and intelligence that is in contrast with scholarship and knowledge acquired through formal education. It is a term used to express such ideas as the essential purity and resolute spirit of the Japanese people, the wish for the peace and security of the nation, and the possession of a strong spirit and emotion that will meet any challenge, even at the expense of one's own life. \"Yamato damashii\" is synonymous with \"Yamato gokoro\" (lit. \"Japanese heart\"). \n\n\n"}
