{"id": "38215101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38215101", "title": "1844 in philosophy", "text": "1844 in philosophy\n\n1844 in philosophy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32102499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32102499", "title": "Abdul Khaliq (philosopher)", "text": "Abdul Khaliq (philosopher)\n\nAbdul Khaliq was born in Lahore on 15 June 1935. He was Iqbal Professor and chairman of the Department of Philosophy at the University of the Punjab.\n\nHaving had his entire early education in Lahore he did his M.A. from Islamia College Civil Lines Lahore and later PhD in the subject of Philosophy from the University of the Punjab. Throughout, he was a University/Government scholarship holder,also securing top position in the University twice:once in the Intermediate (Arts)-1954 and then in B.A.Hons(Arabic)-1956.He did his M.A. in 1958 and Ph.D on the subject.\"Sir Sayyid Ahmad Khan on Nature Man and God\" in 1978. He received Roll of Honour (academic)at the Islamia College,Civil Lines Lahore twice-1956 and 1958.Besides,he was awarded M.A. Ghani Gold Medal on his B.A. result and College Silver Medal on the Intermediate result.\n\nImmediately after M.A. Dr.Abdul Khaliq started his teaching career as lecturer, Islamia College Civil Lines Lahore.After about 2 years of stay there he joined as lecturer, Government Intermediate (later-Degree) College Gujarkhan, Rawalpindi.He continued to serve in this College till 1967 when he finally joined the Teaching Faculty of the Department of Philosophy at the University of the Punjab Lahore. Serving in the University for more than 28 years he retired on 14 June 1995 as Iqbal Professor and Chairman of the Department.During his tenure of service in the University he regularly edited the Departmental Journal Al-Hikmat every year and organized and conducted a number of Annual Iqbal Memorial Lectures by eminent scholars from Pakistan as well as from abroad.He supervised scores of research theses of M.A. students and produced a number of Ph.Ds as their official guide, supervisor and Internal Examiner. He attended various international conferences including International Iqbal Congresses, Lahore 1977, 1983 and 1998 and the International Conference of Muslim Scholars, Islamabad 1981.He delivered a number of extension lectures at Lahore Arts Forum, Islamic Philosophical Association, meetings of Pakistan Philosophical Congress Sessions, Pakistan Naval War College, National Institute of Public Administration, Pakistan Administrative Staff College and so on.He traveled to the University of Pennsylvania (USA)in 1982 on the invitation of the American Institute of Pakistan Studies, as Visiting Professor.\n\nAfter his superannuation Dr.Abdul Khaliq did not stop teaching. For 3 years he taught various courses at Institute of Leadership and Management, National University of Science and Technology and Institute of Business Administration (PU), and then from 1998 to 2006 he worked as the Visiting Faculty at Government College University Lahore and delivered lectures to post-graduate classes. In 2006, Higher Education Commission appointed him to the prestigious position of Senior Educationist and Researcher for 2 years. To avail of this honor he came back to his parent Department at the University of the Punjab, Lahore. During these 2 years he worked on the manuscript of his forthcoming book\"Problems of Muslim Mysticism\" and delivered lectures to the post-graduate classes.\n\nFor a number of years during his entire active professional life he worked as the Elected President of the Pakistan Philosophical Congress which is the only organization of its kind in the whole Muslim World. In that capacity he organized a number of Annual Moots which were attended by delegates from all over Pakistan as well as from other countries who presented their scholarly papers and participated in discussions.\n\nAs to the written research work of Dr.Abdul Khaliq, his main field of interest has been Islamic/Muslim Philosophy and Qur'an Studies. In the following is given the list of his books published so far along with the years of their publication and the names of the Publishers. This will be followed by the list of his Articles published and the Journals etc. in which they appeared.\n\n"}
{"id": "53955838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53955838", "title": "Alternatives to evolution by natural selection", "text": "Alternatives to evolution by natural selection\n\nAlternatives to evolution by natural selection, also described as non-Darwinian mechanisms of evolution, have been proposed by scholars investigating biology since classical times to explain signs of evolution and the relatedness of different groups of living things. The alternatives in question do not encompass religious points of view such as young or old earth creationism or intelligent design, but are limited to explanations proposed by biologists, though one was confusingly named 'theistic evolution' by Asa Gray.\n\nWhere the fact of evolutionary change was accepted but the mechanism proposed by Charles Darwin, natural selection, was denied, explanations of evolution such as Lamarckism, catastrophism, orthogenesis, vitalism, structuralism and mutationism (called saltationism before 1900) were entertained. Different factors motivated people to propose non-Darwinian mechanisms of evolution. Natural selection, with its emphasis on death and competition, did not appeal to some naturalists because they felt it immoral, leaving little room for teleology or the concept of progress in the development of life. Some who came to accept evolution, but disliked natural selection, raised religious objections. Others felt that evolution was an inherently progressive process that natural selection alone was insufficient to explain. Still others felt that nature, including the development of life, followed orderly patterns that natural selection could not explain.\n\nBy the start of the 20th century, evolution was generally accepted by biologists but natural selection was in eclipse. Many alternative theories were proposed, but biologists were quick to discount theories such as orthogenesis, vitalism and Lamarckism which offered no mechanism for evolution. Mutationism did propose a mechanism, but it was not generally accepted. The modern synthesis a generation later claimed to sweep away all the alternatives to Darwinian evolution, though some have been revived as molecular mechanisms for them have been discovered.\n\nAristotle did not embrace either divine creation or evolution, instead arguing in his biology that each species (\"eidos\") was immutable, breeding true to its ideal eternal form (not the same as Plato's theory of Forms). Aristotle's suggestion in \"De Generatione Animalium\" of a fixed hierarchy in nature - a \"scala naturae\" (\"ladder of nature\") provided an early explanation of the continuity of living things. Aristotle saw that animals were teleological (functionally end-directed), and had parts that were homologous with those of other animals, but he did not connect these ideas into a concept of evolutionary progress.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, Scholasticism developed Aristotle's view into the idea of a great chain of being. The image of a ladder inherently suggests the possibility of climbing, but both the ancient Greeks and mediaeval scholastics such as Ramon Lull maintained that each species remained fixed from the moment of its creation.\n\nBy 1818, however, Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire argued in his \"Philosophie anatomique\" that the chain was \"a progressive series\", where animals like molluscs low on the chain could \"rise, by addition of parts, from the simplicity of the first formations to the complication of the creatures at the head of the scale\", given sufficient time. Accordingly, Geoffroy and later biologists looked for explanations of such evolutionary change.\n\nGeorges Cuvier's 1812 \"Recherches sur les Ossements Fossiles\" set out his doctrine of the correlation of parts, namely that since an organism was a whole system, all its parts mutually corresponded, contributing to the function of the whole. So, from a single bone the zoologist could often tell what class or even genus the animal belonged to. And if an animal had teeth adapted for cutting meat, the zoologist could be sure without even looking that its sense organs would be those of a predator and its intestines those of a carnivore. A species had an irreducible functional complexity, and \"none of its parts can change without the others changing too\". Evolutionists expected one part to change at a time, one change to follow another. In Cuvier's view, evolution was impossible, as any one change would unbalance the whole delicate system.\n\nLouis Agassiz's 1856 \"Essay on Classification\" exemplified German philosophical idealism. This held that each species was complex within itself, had complex relationships to other organisms, and fitted precisely into its environment, as a pine tree in a forest, and could not survive outside those circles. The argument from such ideal forms opposed evolution without offering an actual alternative mechanism. Richard Owen held a similar view in Britain.\n\nThe Lamarckian social philosopher and evolutionist Herbert Spencer, ironically the author of the phrase \"survival of the fittest\" adopted by Darwin, used an argument like Cuvier's to oppose natural selection. In 1893, he stated that a change in any one structure of the body would require all the other parts to adapt to fit in with the new arrangement. From this, he argued that it was unlikely that all the changes could appear at the right moment if each one depended on random variation; whereas in a Lamarckian world, all the parts would naturally adapt at once, through a changed pattern of use and disuse.\n\nWhere the fact of evolutionary change was accepted by biologists but natural selection was denied, including but not limited to the late 19th century eclipse of Darwinism, alternative scientific explanations such as Lamarckism, orthogenesis, structuralism, catastrophism, vitalism and theistic evolution were entertained, not necessarily separately. (Purely religious points of view such as young or old earth creationism or intelligent design are not considered here.) Different factors motivated people to propose non-Darwinian evolutionary mechanisms. Natural selection, with its emphasis on death and competition, did not appeal to some naturalists because they felt it immoral, leaving little room for teleology or the concept of progress in the development of life. Some of these scientists and philosophers, like St. George Jackson Mivart and Charles Lyell, who came to accept evolution but disliked natural selection, raised religious objections. Others, such as the biologist and philosopher Herbert Spencer, the botanist George Henslow (son of Darwin's mentor John Stevens Henslow, also a botanist), and the author Samuel Butler, felt that evolution was an inherently progressive process that natural selection alone was insufficient to explain. Still others, including the American paleontologists Edward Drinker Cope and Alpheus Hyatt, had an idealist perspective and felt that nature, including the development of life, followed orderly patterns that natural selection could not explain.\n\nSome felt that natural selection would be too slow, given the estimates of the age of the earth and sun (10–100 million years) being made at the time by physicists such as Lord Kelvin, and some felt that natural selection could not work because at the time the models for inheritance involved blending of inherited characteristics, an objection raised by the engineer Fleeming Jenkin in a review of \"Origin\" written shortly after its publication. Another factor at the end of the 19th century was the rise of a new faction of biologists, typified by geneticists like Hugo de Vries and Thomas Hunt Morgan, who wanted to recast biology as an experimental laboratory science. They distrusted the work of naturalists like Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace, dependent on field observations of variation, adaptation, and biogeography, as being overly anecdotal. Instead they focused on topics like physiology and genetics that could be investigated with controlled experiments in the laboratory, and discounted less accessible phenomena like natural selection and adaptation to the environment.\n\nVitalism holds that living organisms differ from other things in containing something non-physical, such as a fluid or vital spirit, that makes them live. The theory dates to ancient Egypt.\nSince Early Modern times, vitalism stood in contrast to the mechanistic explanation of biological systems started by Descartes. Nineteenth century chemists set out to disprove the claim that forming organic compounds required vitalist influence. In 1828, Friedrich Wöhler showed that urea could be made entirely from inorganic chemicals. Louis Pasteur believed that fermentation required whole organisms, which he supposed carried out chemical reactions found only in living things. The embryologist Hans Driesch, experimenting on sea urchin eggs, showed that separating the first two cells led to two complete but small blastulas, seemingly showing that cell division did not divide the egg into sub-mechanisms, but created more cells each with the vital capability to form a new organism. Vitalism faded out with the demonstration of more satisfactory mechanistic explanations of each of the functions of a living cell or organism. By 1931, biologists had \"almost unanimously abandoned vitalism as an acknowledged belief.\"\n\nThe American botanist Asa Gray used the name \"theistic evolution\" for his point of view, presented in his 1876 book \"Essays and Reviews Pertaining to Darwinism\". He argued that the deity supplies beneficial mutations to guide evolution. St George Jackson Mivart argued instead in his 1871 \"On the Genesis of Species\" that the deity, equipped with foreknowledge, sets the direction of evolution by specifying the (orthogenetic) laws that govern it, and leaves species to evolve according to the conditions they experience as time goes by. The Duke of Argyll set out similar views in his 1867 book \"The Reign of Law\". According to the historian Edward Larson, the theory failed as an explanation in the minds of late 19th century biologists as it broke the rules of methodological naturalism which they had grown to expect. Accordingly, by around 1900, biologists no longer saw theistic evolution as a valid theory. In Larson's view, by then it \"did not even merit a nod among scientists.\" Biologists might argue about mechanisms, but they were in no doubt that a mechanistic explanation was needed. In the 20th century, theistic evolution could take other forms, such as the orthogenesis of Teilhard de Chardin.\n\nOrthogenesis is the hypothesis that life has an innate tendency to change, developing in a unilinear fashion in a particular direction, or simply making some kind of definite progress. Many different versions have been proposed, some such as that of Teilhard de Chardin openly spiritual, others such as Theodor Eimer's apparently simply biological. These theories often combined orthogenesis with other supposed mechanisms. For example, Eimer believed in Lamarckian evolution, but felt that internal laws of growth determined which characteristics would be acquired and would guide the long-term direction of evolution.\n\nOrthogenesis was popular among paleontologists such as Henry Fairfield Osborn. They believed that the fossil record showed unidirectional change, but did not necessarily accept that the mechanism driving orthogenesis was teleological (goal-directed). Osborn argued in his 1918 book \"Origin and Evolution of Life\" that trends in Titanothere horns were both orthogenetic and non-adaptive, and could be detrimental to the organism. For instance, they supposed that the large antlers of the Irish elk had caused its extinction.\n\nSupport for orthogenesis fell during the modern synthesis in the 1940s when it became apparent that it could not explain the complex branching patterns of evolution revealed by statistical analysis of the fossil record. Work in the 21st century has supported the mechanism and existence of mutation-biased adaptation (a form of mutationism), meaning that constrained orthogenesis is now seen as possible. Moreover, the self-organizing processes involved in certain aspects of embryonic development often exhibit stereotypical morphological outcomes, suggesting that evolution will proceed in preferred directions once key molecular components are in place.\n\nJean-Baptiste Lamarck's 1809 evolutionary theory, transmutation of species, was based on a progressive (orthogenetic) drive toward greater complexity. Lamarck also shared the belief, common at the time, that characteristics acquired during an organism's life could be inherited by the next generation, producing adaptation to the environment. Such characteristics were caused by the use or disuse of the affected part of the body. This minor component of Lamarck's theory became known, much later, as Lamarckism. Darwin included \"Effects of the increased Use and Disuse of Parts, as controlled by Natural Selection\" in \"On the Origin of Species\", giving examples such as large ground feeding birds getting stronger legs through exercise, and weaker wings from not flying until, like the ostrich, they could not fly at all. In the late 19th century, neo-Lamarckism was supported by the German biologist Ernst Haeckel, the American paleontologists Edward Drinker Cope and Alpheus Hyatt, and the American entomologist Alpheus Packard. Butler and Cope believed that this allowed organisms to effectively drive their own evolution. Packard argued that the loss of vision in the blind cave insects he studied was best explained through a Lamarckian process of atrophy through disuse combined with inheritance of acquired characteristics. Meanwhile, the English botanist George Henslow studied how environmental stress affected the development of plants, and he wrote that the variations induced by such environmental factors could largely explain evolution; he did not see the need to demonstrate that such variations could actually be inherited. Critics pointed out that there was no solid evidence for the inheritance of acquired characteristics. Instead, the experimental work of the German biologist August Weismann resulted in the germ plasm theory of inheritance, which Weismann said made the inheritance of acquired characteristics impossible, since the Weismann barrier would prevent any changes that occurred to the body after birth from being inherited by the next generation.\n\nIn modern epigenetics, biologists observe that phenotypes depend on heritable changes to gene expression that do not involve changes to the DNA sequence. These changes can cross generations in plants, animals, and prokaryotes. This is not identical to traditional Lamarckism, as the changes do not last indefinitely and do not affect the germ line and hence the evolution of genes.\n\nCatastrophism is the hypothesis, argued by the French anatomist and paleontologist Georges Cuvier in his 1812 \"Recherches sur les ossements fossiles de quadrupèdes\", that the various extinctions and the patterns of faunal succession seen in the fossil record were caused by large-scale natural catastrophes such as volcanic eruptions and, for the most recent extinctions in Eurasia, the inundation of low-lying areas by the sea. This was explained purely by natural events: he did not mention Noah's flood, nor did he ever refer to divine creation as the mechanism for repopulation after an extinction event, though he did not support evolutionary theories such as those of his contemporaries Lamarck and Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire either. Cuvier believed that the stratigraphic record indicated that there had been several such catastrophes, recurring natural events, separated by long periods of stability during the history of life on earth. This led him to believe the Earth was several million years old.\n\nCatastrophism has found a place in modern biology with the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event at the end of the Cretaceous period, as proposed in a paper by \nWalter and Luis Alvarez in 1980. It argued that a asteroid struck Earth 66 million years ago at the end of the Cretaceous period. The event, whatever it was, made about 70% of all species extinct, including the dinosaurs, leaving behind the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary. In 1990, a candidate crater marking the impact was identified at Chicxulub in the Yucatán Peninsula of Mexico.\n\nBiological structuralism objects to an exclusively Darwinian explanation of natural selection, arguing that other mechanisms also guide evolution, and sometimes implying that these supersede selection altogether. Structuralists have proposed different mechanisms that might have guided the formation of body plans. Before Darwin, Étienne Geoffroy Saint-Hilaire argued that animals shared homologous parts, and that if one was enlarged, the others would be reduced in compensation. After Darwin, D'Arcy Thompson hinted at vitalism and offered geometric explanations in his classic 1917 book \"On Growth and Form\". Adolf Seilacher suggested mechanical inflation for \"pneu\" structures in Ediacaran biota fossils such as \"Dickinsonia\". Günter P. Wagner argued for developmental bias, structural constraints on embryonic development. Stuart Kauffman favoured self-organisation, the idea that complex structure emerges holistically and spontaneously from the dynamic interaction of all parts of an organism. Michael Denton argued for laws of form by which Platonic universals or \"Types\" are self-organised. In 1979 Stephen J. Gould and Richard Lewontin proposed biological \"spandrels\", features created as a byproduct of the adaptation of nearby structures. Gerd Müller and Stuart Newman argued that the appearance in the fossil record of most of the current phyla in the Cambrian explosion was \"pre-Mendelian\" evolution caused by plastic responses of morphogenetic systems that were partly organized by physical mechanisms. Brian Goodwin, described by Wagner as part of \"a fringe movement in evolutionary biology\", denied that biological complexity can be reduced to natural selection, and argued that pattern formation is driven by morphogenetic fields. Darwinian biologists have criticised structuralism, emphasising that there is plentiful evidence from deep homology that genes have been involved in shaping organisms throughout evolutionary history. They accept that some structures such as the cell membrane self-assemble, but question the ability of self-organisation to drive large-scale evolution.\n\nSaltationism held that new species arise as a result of large mutations. It was seen as a much faster alternative to the Darwinian concept of a gradual process of small random variations being acted on by natural selection. It was popular with early geneticists such as Hugo de Vries, who along with Carl Correns helped rediscover Gregor Mendel's laws of inheritance in 1900, William Bateson, a British zoologist who switched to genetics, and early in his career, Thomas Hunt Morgan. These ideas developed into mutationism, the mutation theory of evolution. This held that species went through periods of rapid mutation, possibly as a result of environmental stress, that could produce multiple mutations, and in some cases completely new species, in a single generation, based on de Vries's experiments with the evening primrose, \"Oenothera\", from 1886. The primroses seemed to be constantly producing new varieties with striking variations in form and color, some of which appeared to be new species because plants of the new generation could only be crossed with one another, not with their parents. However, Hermann Joseph Muller showed in 1918 that the new varieties de Vries had observed were the result of polyploid hybrids rather than rapid genetic mutation.\n\nInitially, de Vries and Morgan believed that mutations were so large as to create new forms such as subspecies or even species instantly. Morgan's 1910 fruit fly experiments, in which he isolated mutations for characteristics such as white eyes, changed his mind. He saw that mutations represented small Mendelian characteristics that would only spread through a population when they were beneficial, helped by natural selection. This represented the germ of the modern synthesis, and the beginning of the end for mutationism as an evolutionary force.\n\nContemporary biologists accept that mutation and selection both play roles in evolution; the mainstream view is that while mutation supplies material for selection in the form of variation, all non-random outcomes are caused by natural selection. Masatoshi Nei argues instead that the production of more efficient genotypes by mutation is fundamental for evolution, and that evolution is often mutation-limited. The endosymbiotic theory implies rare but major events of saltational evolution by symbiogenesis. Carl Woese and colleagues suggested that the absence of RNA signature continuum between domains of bacteria, archaea, and eukarya shows that these major lineages materialized via large saltations in cellular organization.\nSaltation at a variety of scales is agreed to be possible by mechanisms including polyploidy, which certainly can create new species of plant, gene duplication, lateral gene transfer, and transposable elements (jumping genes).\n\nThe neutral theory of molecular evolution, proposed by Motoo Kimura in 1968, holds that at the molecular level most evolutionary changes and most of the variation within and between species is not caused by natural selection but by genetic drift of mutant alleles that are neutral. A neutral mutation is one that does not affect an organism's ability to survive and reproduce. The neutral theory allows for the possibility that most mutations are deleterious, but holds that because these are rapidly purged by natural selection, they do not make significant contributions to variation within and between species at the molecular level. Mutations that are not deleterious are assumed to be mostly neutral rather than beneficial.\n\nThe theory was controversial as it sounded like a challenge to Darwinian evolution; controversy was intensified by a 1969 paper by Jack Lester King and Thomas H. Jukes, provocatively but misleadingly titled \"Non-Darwinian Evolution\". It provided a wide variety of evidence including protein sequence comparisons, studies of the Treffers mutator gene in \"E. coli\", analysis of the genetic code, and comparative immunology, to argue that most protein evolution is due to neutral mutations and genetic drift.\n\nAccording to Kimura, the theory applies only for evolution at the molecular level, while phenotypic evolution is controlled by natural selection, so the neutral theory does not constitute a true alternative.\n\nThe various alternatives to Darwinian evolution by natural selection were not necessarily mutually exclusive. The evolutionary philosophy of the American palaeontologist Edward Drinker Cope is a case in point. Cope, a religious man, began his career denying the possibility of evolution. In the 1860s, he accepted that evolution could occur, but, influenced by Agassiz, rejected natural selection. Cope accepted instead the theory of recapitulation of evolutionary history during the growth of the embryo - that ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny, which Agassiz believed showed a divine plan leading straight up to man, in a pattern revealed both in embryology and palaeontology. Cope did not go so far, seeing that evolution created a branching tree of forms, as Darwin had suggested. Each evolutionary step was however non-random: the direction was determined in advance and had a regular pattern (orthogenesis), and steps were not adaptive but part of a divine plan (theistic evolution). This left unanswered the question of why each step should occur, and Cope switched his theory to accommodate functional adaptation for each change. Still rejecting natural selection as the cause of adaptation, Cope turned to Lamarckism to provide the force guiding evolution. Finally, Cope supposed that Lamarckian use and disuse operated by causing a vitalist growth-force substance, \"bathmism\", to be concentrated in the areas of the body being most intensively used; in turn, it made these areas develop at the expense of the rest. Cope's complex set of beliefs thus assembled five evolutionary philosophies: recapitulationism, orthogenesis, theistic evolution, Lamarckism, and vitalism. Other palaeontologists and field naturalists continued to hold beliefs combining orthogenesis and Lamarckism until the modern synthesis in the 1930s.\n\nBy the start of the 20th century, during the eclipse of Darwinism, biologists were doubtful of natural selection, but equally were quick to discount theories such as orthogenesis, vitalism and Lamarckism which offered no mechanism for evolution. Mutationism did propose a mechanism, but it was not generally accepted. The modern synthesis a generation later, roughly between 1918 and 1932, broadly swept away all the alternatives to Darwinism, though some including forms of orthogenesis, epigenetic mechanisms that resemble Lamarckian inheritance of acquired characteristics, catastrophism, structuralism, and mutationism have been revived, such as through the discovery of molecular mechanisms.\n\nBiology has become Darwinian, but belief in some form of progress (orthogenesis) remains both in the public mind and among biologists. Ruse argues that evolutionary biologists will probably continue to believe in progress for three reasons. Firstly, the anthropic principle demands people able to ask about the process that led to their own existence, as if they were the pinnacle of such progress. Secondly, scientists in general and evolutionists in particular believe that their work is leading them progressively closer to a true grasp of reality, as knowledge increases, and hence (runs the argument) there is progress in nature also. Ruse notes in this regard that Richard Dawkins explicitly compares cultural progress with memes to biological progress with genes. Thirdly, evolutionists are self-selected; they are people, such as the entomologist and sociobiologist E. O. Wilson, who are interested in progress to supply a meaning for life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33526804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33526804", "title": "Authoritarian socialism", "text": "Authoritarian socialism\n\nAuthoritarian socialism refers to a collection of political-economic systems describing themselves as socialist and rejecting the liberal democratic concepts of multi-party politics, freedom of assembly, \"habeas corpus\" and freedom of expression. Several countries, including the Soviet Union and Maoist China have been described by journalists and scholars as authoritarian socialist states. However, neither state used the term \"authoritarian socialist\" to describe themselves—these states declared themselves to be proletarian or people's democracies. Authoritarian socialism also encompassed ideologies like Arab and African socialism.\n\nAuthoritarian socialism is derived from the concept of \"socialism-from-above\". Hal Draper defined \"socialism-from-above\" as the philosophy which employs an elite administration to run the socialist state. The other side of socialism is a more democratic socialism-from-below. Draper viewed socialism-from-below as being the purer, more Marxist, version of socialism. Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels were devoutly opposed to any socialist institution that was \"conducive to superstitious authoritarianism\". Draper makes the argument that this division echoes the division between \"reformist or revolutionary, peaceful or violent, democratic or authoritarian, etc.\" and identifies elitism as being one of the six major varieties of \"socialism-from-above\".\n\nThe idea of socialism-from-above is much more frequently discussed in elite circles than socialism-from-below, even if that is the Marxist ideal, because it is more practical.\n\nThe first major fictional work that proposed an authoritarian socialist state was Edward Bellamy's novel \"Looking Backward\", which depicted a bureaucratic socialist utopia. Bellamy distances himself from radical socialist values, and in many ways his ideal society still imitates many of the systems in late 19th century America. However, his book served as the inspiration for a mass political movement, called Nationalism, within the United States in the late 1800s. These Nationalist Clubs, so called because of their desire to nationalize industry, were strong supporters of the Populists, who wanted the nationalization of the railroad and telegraph systems. Despite their propaganda and involvement in politics, the Nationalist movement began to decline in 1893, due to the financial difficulties of its main publications and Bellamy’s failing health, and essentially disappeared by the turn of the century.\n\nIn the society depicted in the novel, private property has been abolished in favor of state ownership, social classes were eliminated, and all work, which was minimal and relatively easy, was done voluntarily by all citizens between the ages of 21 and 45. Workers were rewarded and recognized via a ranking system based on the army. Most importantly, the government is the most powerful and respected institution, necessary for providing and maintaining this utopia. Arthur Lipow identifies the bureaucratic ruling of this ideal society as a quasi-military organization of both economic and social relations. Bellamy elevates the modern military as a catalyst for national interest.\n\nThe biggest critique of Bellamy’s society is that it is based on the idea of socialism-from-above. The regime is imposed on the people by an expert elite and there is no democratic control or individual liberty. Lipow argues that this inherently leads to authoritarianism: “If the workers and the vast majority were a brutish mass, there could be no question of forming a political movement out of them nor of giving them the task of creating a socialist society. The new institutions would not be created and shaped from below but would, of necessity, correspond to the plan laid down in advance by the utopian planner”.\n\nFriedrich von Hayek, an Austrian economist, was one of the leading academic critics of collectivism in the 20th century. He recognized and was acutely critical of the trends of \"socialism-from-above\" in collectivism, including theories that were based in voluntary cooperation. Unlike Bellamy who praised the idea of elites implementing policies, Hayek makes the argument that socialism inherently leads to tyranny, claiming that “[i]n order to achieve their ends, the planners must create power – power over men wielded by other men – of a magnitude never before known. Democracy is an obstacle to this suppression of freedom which the centralized direction of economic activity requires. Hence arises the class between planning and democracy”. He also argues that socialism and fascism both are based in central economic planning and valuing the state over the individual. In this way, as happened in the years following World War I, it becomes possible for totalitarian or authoritarian leaders to rise to power.\n\nAuthoritarian socialism is a political-economic system that can be generally described as socialist but rejects the liberal democratic concepts of multi-party politics, freedom of assembly, habeas corpus and freedom of expression. Other features that are common to modern authoritarian socialist states (starting in the 20th century) include an emphasis on heavy industry for development, a single-party system to propel the goals of the state forward, the extensive use of propaganda to do the same and more.\n\nOften, as authoritarian powers enforce socialist economics, the process goes hand in hand with supporting the growth of heavy industry as a means of reaching industrialization (as can be seen with Joseph Stalin's control of the Soviet Union). Stalin's goals brought about a rapid industrialization of the Soviet economy that increased the urban population up by another 30 million people (by 1930) and the production of automobiles to 200,000 per year by 1940. Outside of the Soviet Union, two rising global participants of the early 20th century were the young states of Germany and Italy. Although many of the policies put in place by Adolf Hitler and Benito Mussolini (who formed these cults of personality but did not form authoritarian socialist regimes) were contradictory and poorly understood, there were a few centrally planned work projects under their states. The Reichsautobahn in Germany was an example of this. The construction of the autobahns and industries surrounding highway construction elevated the percentage of employed Germans throughout the construction. In Fascist Italy, projects like the Battle for Grain, Battle for Land are public work projects that Communists and Socialist would traditionally support. However, the Italian Fascist regime was not in favor of having the economy under full control of the state, rather, Benito Mussolini chose to link private businesses and the state to organize economic policies. This was more in line with corporatist economic policies. Authoritarian socialist regimes and fascist regimes differ in that the latter shifts a focus on class conflict to a focus on conflict between nations and races.\n\nAside from Russia and a number of former Eastern Bloc members, many states with authoritarian socialist regimes are not categorized as industrialized. A Marxist societal analysis puts forth that the process of industrialization in the 19th century placed the current metropoles in their current positions of power. In theory, industrialization should allow the regime of non-metropoles to raise the standard of living and competitiveness of their populations to be on economic par with these metropoles.\n\nAuthoritarian States often oppose the multi-party system to instill power of the government into a single party that could be led by a single head of state. The rationale behind this being that: 1) elites have the time and resources to enforce socialist theory, because 2) in this socialist state, the interests of the people are represented by the party or head of the party. Hal Draper referred to this as \"socialism-from-above\". According to Draper, socialism from above, comes in \"six strains\" or forms that rationalize and require an elite group at the top of a socialist system. This differs from a Marxist perspective that would advocate for socialism-from-below (a more pure and democratically run form of Socialism). Outside of Europe, Vietnam, Mozambique and Eritrea stand as examples of states that were socialist and ruled by a single-party at some point in the 20th century. In Mozambique, the single-state rule of FRELIMO occurred while the state was still socialist right after Portuguese rule was ending in 1975. Elsewhere in Africa, Eritrea is another example of single-party rule implementing a socialist agenda. The ruling party emerging in 1970 was the EPLF (Eritrean People's Liberation Front) and with control of the state, the EPLF began work on socialist ideals such as broadening women's rights and expanding education. This again occurred without opposition voices being given the right to be heard. In Vietnam, the Communist party considers itself to be in transition to socialism and also the \"vanguard of the working people and the whole nation\".\n\nDepartments of propaganda are not at all rare in these regimes. The extensive use of propaganda is spills into art, cinema, posters, newspapers, books, \"et cetera\". In the Soviet Union, a byproduct of strict censorship was the blossoming of Russian science fiction and fantasy as well as socialist realism. In Latin America, Che Guevara represented and acted on the idea that socialism was an international struggle by operating Radio Rebelde and having his station transmitted from Cuba to as far North as Washington D.C.\n\nSocialist economics refers to the economic theories, practices and norms of hypothetical and existing socialist economic systems.\nThere are elemental characteristics of the socialist economic system that distinguish it from the capitalist or market economy:\n\nThe socialist economic model is greatly characterized by the government’s central planning. As well as the social ownership of the means of production, ideally society would be the owner – but in practice the state is the owner of the means of production. If the state is the owner, the idea is that they would work for the benefit of society – of the working class. In practice, the society is the owner only in theory and the political institutions governing society are completely set up by the people.\n\nIn a centrally planned economy there is a central planning authority, usually named the State Planning Commission, which is in charge of acting within the framework of social goals and the priorities designated by the party. The planning was done under the idea that leaving market indicators would allow for social advancement. The central planning authority is responsible for five specific tasks:\n\nThe planning process involved the creation of one-year plans, five-year plans and long-term plans. The one-year plans contained schedules and details, they addressed current production and market equilibrium issues. The five-year plans integrated the political, military and economic strategy that would be pursued in the next five years, as well as changes in capacity and production rates. It was done by a team of around the fifty leading experts from all the departments, ministries, professional and scientific organizations. The long-term plans encompassed a global strategy development. This plan was about goals for the state and society, not about individual responsibilities. Structural changes were a main theme.\n\nThe essence of Soviet economics is that the communist party is the sole authority of the national interest. The party makes all the decisions, but they should take into account the desires of the population – these desires then were to be weighted into the decision making. The main goal of the Soviet Union according to article 11 of its constitution was to \"raise the material and cultural standards of the working people\".\n\nMarxist thought and its interpretation by the Soviet Union dictated that private ownership was to be banned, the nationalization of all aspects of production was a necessity. Yet some things were not nationalized for the sake of economic efficiency or production targets. There was an emphasis on rapid industrialization, the development of heavy industry, relegation of consumer production as non-essential and collectivization of agriculture. Soviet style economies also use a larger proportion of their resources on investment than do free-market economies. The issue with this is that current consumption is undercut because of the over-investment. All these actions support the purposes of the state, not the people.\n\nDespite the attempts of the Soviet Union to guarantee employment to all of its labor force, communist theory did not satisfy the human desires of its laborers. Because, \"people want land, not collectivization. Consumers want goods, not gigantic industrial enterprise. Workers want better wages and higher living standards, not citations and medals. [And] an economy cannot be politically tailored to perfection\". A main problem of the Soviet Union was it pushed agriculture to the bottom of its priorities and that its central planning scheme inhibited technological innovation. The Soviet Union had a poor overall performance as even though it had high growth rates in productions, many enterprises operated with losses.\n\nThe initial move for socialism was in 1963 after a Central Committee meeting, these countries became the Comecon countries..There were countries that chose to introduce the new economic system gradually, those were Bulgaria, Poland and East Germany. There were countries that decided to first prepare theoretically, then experimentation at different levels and then in a large scale, those were Hungary and Romania. Czechoslovakia is set apart because the first stage of its transition consisted of economic recovery and then socialism was gradually implemented. Yugoslavia differed from other Eastern European countries in that after 1950 it modified its economic system by making self-management the base of enterprise activity.\n\nThere are few differences between the economic model of the Soviet Union and Eastern European countries such as Poland and East Germany. Czechoslovakia and East Germany were administered along regional lines. Poland retained a centralized system similar to the Stalinist centralization of the Soviet Union. The Eastern European countries differed from the Soviet Union in that they had greater flexibility in the management of subordinate firms, the market was assigned a greater importance, accessible foreign trade and \"liberalization of the exchange of capital goods\". There was also less bureaucracy than in the Soviet Union involved in the planning of the countries.\n\nThe Maoist China economic model was designed after the Stalinist principles of a centrally administered socialist economy.\n\nMao condemned Stalinism at the Twentieth Congress and the flaws in the communist movement that peaked with the Hungarian rising. This gave Mao space in which to experiment with departure from the Soviet socialist economy. The Maoist economic model was reliant on \"High Tide of Socialism in the Chinese Countryside\", \"How to Handle Contradictions Among the People\" and \"Ten Great Relationships\". Mao modeled the Chinese socialist economy in such a way that it led to the Great Leap Forward and the Commune Movement.\n\nIn \"High Tide of Socialism in the Chinese Countryside\", Mao focused on the industrialization and mechanization of the countryside; whereas in \"How to Handle Contradictions Among the People\" wrote about his thoughts on the problems of socialist states as well as the conflicts of interest in the Chinese socialist society; and in \"Ten Great Relationships\" wrote about his vision of China’s economy.\n\nMaoist China had a dual economic goal, the industrialization of the countryside and the “socialization” of its people. It differed from the Soviet Union’s goals in that Mao emphasized the class struggle against the bourgeois class. China allowed for more flexibility and experimentation that the Soviet Union as well and the countryside is at the center of its policies.\n\nThe problem with the central planning of socialist economies is that as the state develops it grows in complexity and the possible errors grow and the possibilities of dis-allocations and waste of resources. As commented by Marx, capitalism works because it is a system of economic force, but in socialist economics this force is insufficient to provide enough incentive. Human needs should be taken into account to make a socialist society function, but there is no necessary connection between the accumulation of capital and human satisfaction. Some of the issues that emerged during the Socialist phase of Eastern Europe, the Soviet Union and Maoist China were:\n\nThe Stalinist economic model in which the socialist economies were based did not allow for a decrease in growth rates. It did not allow for the flexibility needed to keep up with growing economies.\n\nAuthoritarian socialism is best understood through an examination of its developmental history, allowing for the analysis and comparison of its various global examples. Although authoritarian socialism was by no means restricted to the Soviet Union, its ideological development occurred in tandem with the Leninist and Stalinist regimes. However, as the Soviet Union was a developmental model for many socialist states in the post-World War II era, Soviet authoritarian socialism was adopted by a diverse range of states and continued to develop well into the twentieth century in the Middle East and North African regions. These regions, characterized by authoritarian traits such as uncontested party leadership, restricted civil liberties and strong unelected officials with non-democratic influence on policy, share many commonalities with the Soviet Union.\n\nMuch like the Soviet Union, they feature external controls such as violent repression and forms of “artificial” socialization. In other words, the implementation of these authoritarian forms of socialism traditionally is accomplished with a dogmatized ideology reinforced by terror and violence. Ultimately, the combination of these external controls serves to implement a \"normality\" within an authoritarian country that \"seems like illusion or madness\" to someone removed from its political atmosphere. For many authoritarian socialist countries, regimes were a mix of this form of external-control based totalitarianism (for intellectually and ideologically active members of society) and traditional or cultural authoritarianism (for the majority of the population).\n\nDespite the Marxian basis of Vladimir Lenin's socialism, the realities of his regime were in fact in direct opposition to Marx’s belief in the emancipation and autonomy of the working class. These contradictions stem primarily from Lenin's implementation of a vanguard party, or a regimented party of committed revolutionaries \"who knew exactly what history's mandate was and who were prepared to be its self-ordained custodians\". The function of this party was meant to be primarily transitional, given that Lenin believed that the working class was politically unprepared for rule and Russia was not yet industrially poised for socialism.\n\nMarx chronicled a history of development through a capitalist age of industrialization that resulted in the manipulation of the working class. This development culminated in the empowerment of a proletariat which could benefit from the fruits of industrialization without being exploited. Although he meant his ideology to appeal to the disenfranchised working class of an industrialized society, it was widely accepted by developing countries that had yet to successfully industrialize. This resulted in stagnant economies and socialist states without the necessary organization and structure to industrialize. Seeing the failure of these models, Lenin concluded that socialism in Russia had to be constructed “from above\" through the dictatorship of the proletariat.\n\nBecause the working class accounted for only 15% of the population, Lenin was forced to appeal to the much greater peasant class, accounting for nearly 80%, to propel the Bolshevik party. They promised \"Bread, Peace, and Land\" to the peasants and delivered, redistributing land from the landlords and increasing the number of farms in Russia from 427,000 in 1917 to 463,000 in 1919.\n\nLenin’s legacy was one of violent terror and concentration of power in the hands of few. Lenin intentionally employed violence as a means to manipulate the population and tolerated absolutely no opposition, arguing that it was \"a great deal better to 'discuss with rifles' than with the theses of the opposition\". He worked for the ideological destruction of society as a whole so that it could easily adopt the rhetoric and political ideals of the ruling party. Lenin's use of terror (instilled by a secret police apparatus) to exact social obedience, mass murder and disappearance, censoring of communications and absence of justice was only reinforced by his successor, Joseph Stalin.\n\nStalin too sought to rapidly industrialize the Soviet Union in a way that was perhaps unrealistic given the aggregate skill level and capital of the population. Acknowledging this inadequacy, Stalin ordered that resources slotted for consumption be redirected to production or exported as a temporary sacrifice on the part of the population for the sake of rapid growth. The model was successful initially, with ideology and nationalism promoting morale despite shortages in resources such as food and construction materials for housing. Presumably, the exploited classes believed that once the rapid and successful industrialization of Russia had taken place, power would be relinquished by the vanguard party and communism would ensue.\n\nHowever, Stalin continued to demand even more far-reaching sacrifices. Because of his control over both political and economic arenas, which historians argue gave his vanguard party an amount of control surpassing that of Russia's czars or emperors, citizens were unwilling to challenge his decrees, given that aspects of their lives such as medical care, housing and social freedoms could be restricted according to the discretion of the party. Indeed, many historians claim that extermination was the fate of a wide variety of people during Stalin’s regime, such as political opponents, ideological rivals, suspect party members, accused military officers, kulaks, lower-class families, former members of the societal elites, ethnic groups, religious groups and the relatives and sympathizers of these offenders.\n\nStalin's expectations remained uncontested by the working class. Despite this and the various economic failures of his regime, the regime model was adopted by a multitude of emerging socialist states during that era. For example, the catastrophic Soviet attempt to collectivize agriculture, which transformed the Soviet Union from one of the world’s largest exporters of grain to the world’s largest importer of grain, widely replicated despite its failure.\n\nFollowing the fall of the elite, land-owning class of the early 20th century, China began its Communist Revolution through the countryside. As relationships between agrarian masses and state-controlled programs splintered, the Communist Party began seizing power, led by Mao Zedong. In his 1949 essay \"On People's Democratic Dictatorship\", Mao committed himself and the Chinese state to the creation of a strong state power with increased economic control. He stressed the importance of an authoritarian state, where political order and unity could be established and maintained. Mao committed himself to unification in the vein of complete system overthrow. As Party Chairman, Mao allowed himself complete control over the structure and execution of his Communist Party. While in control, Mao had created his own cult of personality, an almost mythical position as a guardian of wisdom and charisma.\n\nWith such power, he was able to influence popular opinions, allowing his agenda support without going through state-controlled measures. During his Great Leap Forward—an initiative to develop China from an agrarian sector a major industrial powerhouse—he relied greatly on his prestige to influence the people. However, the Great Leap Forward proved a failure as widespread crop and irrigation failures led to the Great Chinese Famine of 1959–1961. There was no suggested end to the revolution—it was meant to be a continuing process of empowerment of the peasant class. However, with the aggressive failure of his Cultural Revolution, Chinese support for the party and for Mao waned. Continuing struggles after his death would undermine his communist system, allowing a more democratic yet still one-party ruled system to continue into today.\n\nMaoist socialism is largely an adapted, Sino-centric version of Marxism as Mao relies heavily on Leninist influence. Mao believed in a democratic centralism, where party decisions are brought about by scrutiny and debate, but infallible once implemented. However, Mao did not accept dissenters to the party's decisions. Through the Cultural Revolution, especially the Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries, Mao attempted to purge any subversive idea—especially capitalist or western threat—with heavy force, justifying his actions as the necessary way for the central authority to keep power. At the same time, Mao emphasized the importance of cultural heritage and individual choice as a way of creating this national unity. He described his ideal system as \"a political situation in which there is both centralism and democracy, both discipline and freedom, both unity of purpose and personal ease of mind and liveliness to facilitate the socialist revolution\". While the system advocates contradiction, Mao believed the state above all could provide the masses with the tools for their own expression. Ironically, his own brand of self-expression was wholly manufactured, built largely on replacing traditional practices and artifacts with his own. Through this, transformation of the people towards an internal party collectiveness was possible.\n\nNotably, Mao's authoritarianism was unlike Marx's rooted in a collective bottom-up style of empowerment. In his system, the proletariat and peasantry were responsible for rising up against the bureaucracy and capital of the state. Joining the peasant class with the bourgeoisie of the countryside (the land-holding, local farmers), the group was able to stifle the claims to power by the wealthier, urban landowners through the banner of communism. Only when this collection of peasants and petty bourgeoisie existed could Mao grow his own, custom bureaucracy. Once this unity was established, Mao argued that the people were the ones who could control the state, but his government's intense control over the citizenry emphasizes the contradiction in his theory—a contradiction, he maintained, was a necessary reality of their specialized system \n\nUnder Hugo Chávez and his Bolivarian Revolution, Venezuela moved toward authoritarian socialism. The Bolivarian government used \"[c]entralized decision-making and a top-down approach to policy formation, the erosion of vertical power-sharing and concentration of power in the presidency, the progressive deinstitutionalization at all levels, and an increasingly paternalist relationship between state and society\" in order to hasten changes in Venezuela.\n\nSocialism was introduced into the Middle East in the form of populist policies designed to galvanize the working class into overthrowing colonial powers and their domestic allies. These policies were held by authoritarian regimes interested in the rapid industrialization and social equalization of Arab nations and often were characterized by redistributive or protectionist economic policies, lower class mobilization, charismatic leaders and promises to improve national living standards.\n\nThese regimes were progressive in terms of the colonial development that had occurred thus far. They allowed important political and economic gains to be made by workers, encouraged land redistribution, unseated oligarchical political powers and implemented import-substituting industrialization development strategies.\n\nHowever, with the collapse of the Soviet bloc and the push for democratization, many Arab states have moved toward a model of fiscal discipline proposed by the Washington Consensus. Although authoritarian leaders of these socialist states implemented democratic institutions during the 1980s and 1990s, ultimately their multiparty elections created an arena in which business elites could lobby for personal interests, while largely silencing the lower class. Furthermore, economic liberalization in these regions yielded economies (and therefore regimes) built on the support of rent-seeking urban elites. However, political opposition invites the prospect of political marginalization and even retaliation.\n\nA great deal of debate has been paid by the field of comparative politics to how the Arab region was able to avoid the third wave of democratization. A number of arguments have been offered by professionals in the field, ranging from a discussion of prerequisites not supported by the Arab culture to a lack of democratic actors initiating the necessary democratic transition.\n\nMarsha Pripstein Posusney argues in Authoritarianism in the Middle East that the “patriarchal and tribal mentality of the culture is an impediment to the development of pluralist values”, rendering Arab citizens prone to accept patriarchal leaders and lacking the national unity that many argue is necessary for democratization to be successful. Eva Bellin concedes that the prevalence of Islam is a distinguishing factor of the region and therefore must contribute to the region’s exceptionalism “given Islam’s presumed inhospitality to democracy”. Posusney argues that this “intrinsic incompatibility between democracy and Islam” remains unproven given that efforts to test this association quantitatively have failed to produce conclusive results. Ethnic divisions in the area have also been cited as a factor as well as a weak civil society, a state-controlled economy, poverty, low literacy rates and inequality.\n\nIn his book \"Debating Arab Authoritarianism: Dynamics and Durability in Nondemocratic Regimes\", Oliver Schlumberger has argued that there is in fact an international ambivalence toward authoritarianism in the Middle East given that stability is preferred over the uncertainty of democratization due to the region’s oil and gas supplies and the strategic importance of its geopolitical location.\n\nDuring the 1945 Pan-African Conference, calls for increased organization, development and self-determination in the poverty stricken African continent put the impetus on colonial powers to negotiate national sovereignty. While there were few Marxist movements into the continent, Soviet Union activity spurred anti-imperialist and globalization movements from African countries. The congress established national liberation as the main topic of their sessions, emphasizing the elimination and exploitation by the imperialist powers over authentic national sovereignty. However, they did not establish clear social or political parameters for this new liberation.\n\nAfrican leaders consistently viewed socialism as a direct rejection of the colonial system and in turn dismissed the notion of creating independent capitalist systems throughout the continent. Instead, the leaders attempted to infuse various forms of socialism—some Marxist, some democratic—into tailored ideologies specific to each country. Once these systems were in place, countries developed towards a \"focal institutional\" society, per sociologist William Friedland. In other words, societies adopted a totalitarian vision of rule, allowing one-party systems and institutions to \"penetrate every sphere of private or public activity\".\n\nSenegalese President Leopold Sedar Senghor was among the first and most vocal African advocates for Socialism. Before elected president, Senghor served as one of nine African delegates to the 1945 French Constituent Assembly, negotiating for the transfer of self-governing and policy-making power through locally elected councils. The measure shortly failed, keeping autonomy from the colonies until the independence movements of the 1960s.\n\nAfter Senegalese Independence, Senghor's Union Progresiste Senegalaise, a derivative of the French Socialist Party, grew massive support throughout the continent. Much of his party's success hinged on his \"revisionist\" version of Marxism, where he advocates: \"the major contradiction of Marxism is that it presents itself as a science, whereas, despite its denials, it is based on an ethic\". By framing it as an ethic, Senghor was able to remove the strict determinism from the ideology, allowing it to be molded towards an Afro-centric model. His revision proved similar to that of Benito Mussolini as he calls on a national movement from and for his one-party-ruled government: \"In a word, we must awaken the National Consciousness ... But the government cannot and must not do it all. It must be helped by the party...Our party must be the consciousness of the masses\".\n\nIn the same vein as Senghor, socialist leader Kwame Nkrumah sought to advance this one-party, nationalized form of socialist obedience. Nkrumah stressed the importance of government-owned property and resources. He maintained that \"production for private profit deprives a large section of the people of the goods and services produce\"d\"\", advocating public ownership to fit the \"people's needs\". To accomplish this, Nkrumah emphasized the importance of discipline and obedience towards the single Socialist party. If people submitted and accepted the singular party's program, he said, political independence would be possible. By 1965, his one-party rule had produced an Assembly entirely made up of his own party members \n\nNkrumah saw law as a malleable weapon of political power, not as a product of a complex system of political institutions. As such, Ghanaian power structures were dominated and controlled by his hand. However, elite landowners questioned the legitimacy of Nkrumah's power. These elites were only afforded one choice: to align with their government if they wanted access to the state. Gradually, those who were not granted (or did not desire) entrance into the party created regions blocs. The Asante, for example, emerged as a regional force capable political sway. With the power to set the agenda, the authoritarian party often clashed with these emerging regional groups, ultimately undermining the one-party system.\n\nJulius Nyerere attempted to socialist reform for Tanzania following those in Ghana and Senegal. The tenets of his initiatives were four-fold:\n\nThe system—called ujaama—became a tool for nationalization of the Tanzanian people. In the system, all Tanzanains were encouraged to run for office, with no campaign funding allowed. Speeches in the election would not focus on the national issues but rather the quality of the individual, each of whom would be closely controlled by TANU. Structurally, the power was shared along regional boundaries, giving increased policy making power and resource allocation to these regions. Local institutions were downplayed, with leadership organizations often facing subversion from higher governmental structures.\n\nThe first wave of elections in the Tanzanian general election produced a 100% voting rate for TANU officials.\n"}
{"id": "19501790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19501790", "title": "Charles Leonard Hamblin", "text": "Charles Leonard Hamblin\n\nCharles Leonard Hamblin (1922 – 14 May 1985) was an Australian philosopher, logician, and computer pioneer, as well as a professor of philosophy at the New South Wales University of Technology (now the University of New South Wales) in Sydney.\n\nAmong his most well-known achievements in the area of computer science was the introduction of Reverse Polish Notation and the use in 1957 of a push-down pop-up stack. This preceded the work of Friedrich Ludwig Bauer and Klaus Samelson on use of a push-pop stack. The stack had been invented by Alan Turing in 1946 when he introduced such a stack in his design of the ACE computer. Hamblin's most well-known contribution to philosophy is his book \"Fallacies\", a standard work in the area of the false conclusions in logic.\n\nInterrupted by the Second World War and radar service in the Australian Air Force, Hamblin's studies included mathematics, physics, and philosophy at the University of Melbourne, and he obtained a doctorate in 1957 at the London School of Economics. From 1955, he was lecturer at N.S.W. University of Technology, and later professor of philosophy at the same place, until his death in 1985, during which time the organization had been renamed The University of New South Wales.\n\nIn the second half of the 1950s, Hamblin worked with the third computer available in Australia, a DEUCE computer manufactured by the English Electric Company. For the DEUCE, he designed one of the first programming languages, later called GEORGE, which was based on Reverse Polish Notation. His associated compiler (language translator) translated the programs formulated in GEORGE into the machine language of the computer, in 1957.\n\nHamblin's work is considered to be the first to use Reverse Polish Notation, and this is why he is called an inventor of this representation method. Regardless of whether Hamblin independently invented the notation and its usage, he showed the merit, service, and advantage of the Reverse Polish way of writing programs for the processing on programmable computers and algorithms to make it happen.\n\nThe second direct result of his work with the development of compilers was the concept of the push-pop stack (previously invented by Alan M. Turing for the ACE in 1945), which Hamblin developed independently of Friedrich Ludwig Bauer and Klaus Samelson. In the same year, 1957, Hamblin presented his stack concept at the first Australian Computer Conference. The compiler was running before that conference. Hamblin's work influenced the development of stack-based computers, their machine instructions, their arguments on a stack, and reference addresses. The design was taken up by English Electric in their KDF9 computer, delivered in 1963.\n\nInto the 1960s, Hamblin again increasingly turned to philosophical questions. Besides writing an influential introductory book into the formal logic which is today a standard work on fallacies. It dedicated itself to the treatment of false conclusions by the traditional logic and brought in it formal dialectic and developed it further. As such, Hamblin is considered as one of the founders of the modern informal logic.\n\nHamblin contributed to the development of modern temporal logic in two ways. In its very early period he corresponded with Arthur Prior between 1958 and 1965; this collaboration culminated with the so-called Hamblin implications. Later in 1972 Hamblin independently rediscovered a form of duration calculus (interval logic), without being aware of the 1947 work of A. G. Walker on this topic, who was not interested in the tense aspect. Hamblin's duration calculus is very similar to that later developed by James Allen and Patrick J. Hayes in the mid 1980s.\n\nIn addition to ancient Greek, Hamblin was familiar with several Asian and Pacific languages. A classical music lover who played the piano, Hamblin was setting words of Wittgenstein to music while hospitalized with an affliction that proved fatal.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7628", "title": "Christine de Pizan", "text": "Christine de Pizan\n\nChristine de Pizan (also seen as de Pisan; ; 1364 – c. 1430) was an Italian and French author. She is best remembered for defending women in \"The Book of the City of Ladies\" and \"The Treasure of the City of Ladies\". Pizan was a prominent moralist and political thinker in medieval France. Pizan's patrons included Louis of Orleans, Philip the Bold and John the Fearless. She served as a court writer during the reign of Charles VI. Her books of advice to princesses, princes and knights remained in print until the 16th century.\n\nIn recent decades, Pizan's work has been returned to prominence by the efforts of scholars such as Charity Cannon Willard, Earl Jeffrey Richards and Simone de Beauvoir.\n\nChristine de Pizan was born 1364 in Venice, Italy. She was the daughter of Tommaso di Benvenuto da Pizzano. Her father became known as Thomas de Pizan, named for the family's origins in the town of Pizzano, south east of Bologna. Her father worked as a physician, court astrologer, and Councillor of the Republic of Venice. Thomas de Pizan accepted an appointment to the court of Charles V of France as the king's astrologer and in 1368 Pizan moved to Paris. In 1379 Pizan married the notary and royal secretary Etienne du Castel.\n\nShe had three children. Her daughter became a nun at the Dominican Abbey in Poissy in 1397 as a companion to the King's daughter Marie. Pizan's husband died of the plague in 1389, her father had died the year before. Pizan was left to support her mother and her children. When she tried to collect money from her husband's estate, she faced complicated lawsuits regarding the recovery of salary due her husband. On 4 June 1389, in a judgment concerning a lawsuit filed against her by the archbishop of Sens and François Chanteprime, councillors of the King, Christine was styled \"damoiselle\" and widow of \"Estienne du Castel\".\n\nIn order to support herself and her family, Christine turned to writing. By 1393, she was writing love ballads, which caught the attention of wealthy patrons within the court. Pizan became a prolific writer. Her involvement in the production of her books and her skilful use of patronage in turbulent political times has earned her the title of the first professional woman of letters in Europe. Although Italian by birth, Pizan expressed fervent nationalism for France. Affective and financially she attached to the royal family of France. She gifted or dedicated her early ballades to members of the royal family, such as Isabeau of Bavaria, Louis I, Duke of Orléans, and Marie of Berry. Of Queen Isabeau she wrote in 1402 \"High, excellent crowned Queen of France, very redoubtable princess, powerful lady, born at a lucky hour\".\n\nFrance was ruled by Charles VI who experienced a series of mental breakdowns, causing a crisis of leadership for the French monarchy. He was often absent from court and could eventually only make decisions with the approval of a royal council. Queen Isabeau was nominally in charge of governance when her husband was absent from court, but could not extinguish the quarrel between members of the royal family. In the past, Blanche of Castile had played a central role in the stability of the royal court and had acted as regent of France. Pizan published a series of works on the virtues of women, referencing Queen Blanche and dedicating them to Queen Isabeau.\n\nPizan believed that France had been founded by the descendants of the Trojans and that its governance by the royal family adhered to the Aristotelian ideal. In 1400 Pizan published \"L'Épistre de Othéa a Hector\" (\"Letter of Othea to Hector\"). When first published, the book was dedicated to Louis of Orléans, the brother of Charles VI, who was at court seen as potential regent of France. In \"L'Épistre de Othéa a Hector\" Hector of Troy is tutored in statecraft and the political virtues by the goddess of wisdom Othéa. Pizan produced richly illustrated luxury editions of \"L'Épistre de Othéa a Hector\" in 1400. Between 1408 and 1415 Pizan produced further editions of the book. Throughout her career she produced rededicated editions of the book with customised prologues for patrons, including an edition for Philip the Bold in 1403, and editions for Jean of Berry and Henry IV of England in 1404. Patronage changed in the late Middle Ages. Texts were still produced and circulated as continuous roll manuscripts, but were increasingly replaced by the bound codex. Members of royal family became patrons of writers by commissioning books. As materials became cheaper a book trade developed, so writers and bookmakers produced books for the French nobility, who could afford to establish their own libraries. Pizan thus had no single patron who consistently supported her financially and became associated with the royal court and the different fractions of the royal family – the Burgundy, Orleans and Berry – each having their own respective courts. Throughout her career Pizan undertook concurrent paid projects for individual patrons and subsequently published these works for dissemination among the nobility of France.\n\nIn 1402 Pizan became involved in a renowned literary controversy, the \"Querelle du Roman de la Rose\". Pizan instigated this debate by questioning the literary merits of Jean de Meun's popular \"Romance of the Rose\". \"Romance of the Rose\" satirizes the conventions of courtly love while critically depicting women as nothing more than seducers. In the midst of the Hundred Years' War between French and English kings, Pizan published the dream allegory \"Le Chemin de long estude\" in 1403. In the first person narrative she and Cumaean Sibyl travel together and witness a debate on the state of the world between the four allegories – Wealth, Nobility, Chivalry and Wisdom. Pizan suggests that justice could be brought to earth by a single monarch who had the necessary qualities.\n\nIn 1404 Pizan chronicled the life of Charles V, portraying him as the ideal king and political leader, in \"Le Livre des fais et bonnes meurs du sage roy Charles V\". The chronical had been commissioned by Philip the Bold and in the chronicle Pizan passed judgement on the state of the royal court. When praising the efforts of Charles V in studying Latin, Pizan lamented that her contemporaries had to resort to strangers to read the law to them. Before the book was completed, Philip the Bold died, and Pizan offered the book to Jean of Berry in 1405, finding a new royal patron. She was paid 100 livre for the book by Philip's successor John the Fearless in 1406 and would receive payments from his court for books until 1412.\n\nIn 1405 Pizan published \"Le Livre de la cité des dames\" (\"The Book of the City of Ladies\") and \"Le Livre des trois vertus\" (\"Book of Three Virtues\", known as \"The Treasure of the City of Ladies\"). In \"Le Livre de la cité des dames\" Pizan presented intellectual and royal female leaders, such as Queen Zenobia. Pizan dedicated \"Le Livre des trois vertus\" to the dauphine Margaret of Nevers, advising the young princess on what she had to learn. As Queen Isabeau's oldest son Louis of Guyenne came of age Pizan addressed three works to him with the intention of promoting wise and effective government. The earliest of the three works has been lost. In \"Livre du Corps de policie\" (\"The Book of the Body Politic\"), published in 1407 and dedicated to the dauphin, Pizan set out a political treatises which analysed and described the customs and governments of late medieval European societies. Pizan favoured hereditary monarchies, arguing in reference to Italian city-states that were governed by princes or trades, that \"such governance is not profitable at all for the common good\". Pizan also devoted several chapters to the duties of a king as military leader and she described in detail the role of the military class in society.\n\nFrance was at the verge of all out civil war since 1405. In 1407 John I of Burgundy, also known as John the Fearless, plunged France into a crisis when he had Louis of Orléans assassinated. The Duke of Burgundy fled Paris when his complicity in the assassination became known, but was appointed regent of France on behalf of Charles VI in late 1408 after his military victory in the Battle of Othee. It is not certain who commissioned Pizan to write a treatise on military warfare, but in 1410 Pizan published the manual on chivalry, entitled \"Livre des fais d'armes et de chevalerie\" (\"The Book of Feats of Arms and of Chivalry\"). Pizan received 200 livre from the royal treasury in early 1411 for the book. In the preface Pizan explained that she published the manual in French so that it could be read by practitioners of war not well versed in Latin. The book opened with a discussion of the just war theory advanced by Honoré Bonet. Pizan also referenced classical writers on military warfare, such as Vegetius, Frontinus and Valerius Maximus. Pizan discussed contemporary matters relating to what she termed the \"Laws of War\", such as capital punishment, the payment of troops, as well as the treatment of noncombatants and prisoners of war. Pizan opposed trial by combat, but articulated the medieval belief that God is the lord and governor of battle and that wars are the proper execution of justice. Nevertheless she acknowledged that in a war \"many great wrongs, extortions, and grievous deeds are committed, as well as raping, killings, forced executions, and arsons\". Pizan limited the right to wage war to sovereign kings because as head of states they were responsible for the welfare of their subjects. In 1411 the royal court published an edict prohibiting nobles from raising an army.\n\nAfter civil war had broken out in France, Pizan in 1413 offered guidance to the young dauphin on how to govern well, publishing \"Livre de la paix\" (\"The Book of Peace\"). \"Livre de la paix\" would be Pizan's last major work and contained detailed formulations of her thoughts on good governance. The period was marked by bouts of civil war and failed attempts to bring John the Fearless to justice for assassinating his cousin. Pizan addressed Louis of Guyenne directly, encouraging him to continue the quest for peace in France. She argued that \"Every kingdom divided in itself will be made desolate, and every city and house divided against itself will not stand\". Pizan was acquainted with William of Tignonville, an ambassador to the royal court, and referenced Tignonville's speeches on the Armagnac–Burgundian Civil War. Pizan's drew a utopian vision of a just ruler, who could take advice from those older or wiser. In arguing that peace and justice were possible on earth as well as in heaven, Pizan was influenced by Dante, who she had referenced in \"Le Chemin de long estude\". Pizan encouraged the dauphin to deserve respect, by administering justice promptly and living by worthy example. Pizan urged young princes to make themselves available to their subjects, avoid anger and cruelty, to act liberally, clement and truthful. Pizan's interpretation of the virtuous Christian prince built on the advice to rulers by St Benedict, Peter Abelard and Cicero.\nIn 1414 Pizan presented Queen Isabeau with a lavishly decorated collection of her works (now known as \"British Library Harley 4431\"). The bound book contained 30 of Pizan's writings and 130 miniatures. She had been asked by the queen to produce the book. Noted for its quality miniature illuminations, Pizan herself and her past royal patrons were depicted. As a mark of ownership and authorship the opening frontispiece depicted Queen Isabeau being presented with the book by Pizan.\n\nIn 1418 Pizan published a consolation for women who had lost family members in the Battle of Agincourt under the title \"Epistre de la prison de vie Humaine\" (\"Letter Concerning the Prison of Human Life\"). In it Pizan did not express any optimism or hope that peace could be found on earth. Instead she expressed the view that the soul was trapped in the body and imprisoned in hell. The previous year she had presented the \"Epistre de la prison de vie Humaine\" to Marie of Berry, the administrator of the Duchy of Bourbon whose husband was held in English captivity.\n\nHistorians assume that Pizan spent the last ten years of her life in the Dominican Convent of Poissy because of the civil war and the occupation of Paris by the English. Away from the royal court her literary activity dried up. However, in 1429, after Joan of Arc's military victory over the English, Pizan published the poem \"Ditié de Jehanne d'Arc\" (\"The Tale of Joan of Arc\"). Published just a few days after the coronation of Charles VII, Pizan expressed renewed optimism. She cast Arc as the fulfilment of prophecies by Merlin, Cumaean Sibyl and Saint Bede, helping Charles VII to fulfil the predictions of Charlemagne.\n\nPizan is believed to have died in 1430, before Arc was trialled and executed by the English. After her death the political crisis in France was resolved when Queen Isabeau's only surviving son Charles VII and John the Fearless' successor as Duke of Burgundy, Philip the Good, signed the Peace of Arras in 1435.\n\nPizan produced a large number of vernacular works, in both prose and verse. Her works include political treatises, mirrors for princes, epistles, and poetry.\n\nPizan's book \"Le Dit de la Rose\" (\"The Tale of the Rose\") was published in 1402 as a direct attack on Jean de Meun's extremely popular book \"Romance of the Rose\" which characterised women as seducers. Pizan claimed that Meun's views were misogynistic, vulgar, immoral, and slanderous to women. The exchange between the two authors involved them sending each other their treatises, defending their respective views. At the height of the exchange Pizan published \"Querelle du Roman de la Rose\" (\"Letters on the Debate of the Rose\"). In this particular apologetic response, Pizan belittles her own writing style, employing a rhetorical strategy by writing against the grain of her meaning, also known as antiphrasis.\n\nBy 1405 Pizan had completed her most famous literary works, \"The Book of the City of Ladies\" (\"Le Livre de la cité des dames\") and \"The Treasure of the City of Ladies\" (\"Le Livre des trois vertus\"). The first of these shows the importance of women's past contributions to society, and the second strives to teach women of all estates how to cultivate useful qualities.\n\nIn \"The Book of the City of Ladies\" Pizan created a symbolic city in which women are appreciated and defended. She constructed three allegorical figures – Reason, Justice, and Rectitude – in the common pattern of literature in that era, when many books and poetry utilized stock allegorical figures to express ideas or emotions. She enters into a dialogue, a movement between question and answer, with these allegorical figures that is from a completely female perspective. Together, they create a forum to speak on issues of consequence to all women. Only female voices, examples and opinions provide evidence within this text. Through Lady Reason in particular Pizan argues that stereotypes of women can be sustained only if women are prevented from entering into the conversation.\n\nIn \"City of Ladies\" Pizan deliberated on the debate whether the virtues of men and women differ, a frequently debated topic in late medieval Europe, particularly in the context of Aristotelian virtue ethics and his views on women. Pizan repeatedly used the theological argument that men and women are created in God's image and both have souls capable of embracing God's goodness. Among the inhabitants of the \"City of Ladies\" are female saints, women from the Old Testament and virtuous women from the pagan antiquity as portrait by Giovanni Boccaccio.\n\nIn \"The Treasure of the City of Ladies\" Pizan addressed the \"community\" of women with the stated objective of instructing them in the means of achieving virtue. She took the position that all women were capable of humility, diligence and moral rectitude, and that duly educated all women could become worthy residents of the imaginary \"City of Ladies\". Drawing on her own life, Pizan advised women on how to navigate the perils of early 15th century French society. With reference to Augustine of Hippo and other saints Pizan offered advice on how the noble lady could achieve the love of God. Pizan speaks through the allegorical figures of God's daughters – Reason, Rectitude and Justice – who represent the Three Virtues most important to women's success. Through secular examples of these three virtues, Pizan urged women to discover meaning and achieve worthy acts in their lives. Pizan argued that women's success depends on their ability to manage and mediate by speaking and writing effectively.\n\nPizan specifically sought out other women to collaborate in the creation of her work. She makes special mention of a manuscript illustrator we know only as Anastasia, whom she described as the most talented of her day.\n\nPizan published 41 known pieces of poetry and prose in her lifetime and she gained fame across Europe as the first professional woman writer. She achieved such credibility that royalty commissioned her prose and contemporary intellectuals kept copies of her works in their libraries.\n\nAfter her death in 1430 Pizan's influence was acknowledged by a variety of authors and her writings remained popular. Her book \"Le Livre de la cité des dames\" remained in print. Portuguese and Dutch editions of it exist from the 15th century, and French editions were still being printed in 1536. In 1521 \"The Book of the City of Ladies\" was published in English. Pizan's \"Le Livre des trois vertus\" (\"The Treasure of the City of Ladies\") became an important reference point for royal women in the 15th and 16th century. Anne of France, who acted as regent of France, used it as a basis for her 1504 book of \"Enseignemens\", written for her daughter Suzanne Duchess of Bourbon, who as agnatic heir to the Bourbon lands became co-regent. Pizan's advice to princesses was translated and circulated as manuscript or printed book among the royal families of France and Portugal. The \"City of Ladies\" was acknowledged and referenced by 16th century French women writers, including Anne de Beaujeu, Gabrielle de Bourbon, Marguerite de Navarre and Georgette de Montenay.\n\nPizan's political writings received some attention too. \"Livre de la paix\" was referenced by the humanist Gabriel Naudé and Pizan was given large entries in encyclopedias by Denis Diderot, Louis Moréri and Prosper Marchand. In 1470 Jean V de Bueil reproduced Pizan's detailed accounts of the armies and material needed to defend a castle or town against a siege in \"Le Jouvence\". \"Livre des fais d'armes et de chevalerie\" was published in its entirety by the book printer Antoine Vérard in 1488, but Vérard claimed that it was his translation of Vegetius. Philippe Le Noir authored an abridged version of Pizan's book in 1527 under the title \"L'Arbre des Batailles et fleur de chevalerie\" (\"The tree of battles and flower of chivalry\").\n\n\"Livre des fais d'armes et de chevalerie\" was translated into English by William Caxton for Henry VII in 1489 and was published under the title \"The Book of Feats of Arms and of Chivalry\" as print one year later, attributing Pizan as author. English editions of \"The Book of the City of Ladies\" and \"Livre du corps de policie\" (\"The Book of the Body Politic\") were printed in 1521 without referencing Pizan as the author. Elizabeth I had in her court library copies of \"The Book of the City of Ladies\", \"L'Épistre de Othéa a Hector\" (\"Letter of Othea to Hector\") and \"The Book of Feats of Arms and of Chivalry\". Among the possessions of the English queen were tapestries with scenes from the \"City of Ladies\". However, when in the early 19th century Raimond Thomassy published an overview of Pizan's political writings, he noted that modern editions of these writings were not published and that as a political theorist Pizan was descending into obscurity.\n\nWhile Pizan's mixture of classical philosophy and humanistic ideals was in line with the style of other popular authors at the time, her outspoken defence of women was an anomaly. In her works she vindicated women against popular misogynist texts, such as Ovid's \"Art of Love\", Jean de Meun's \"Romance of the Rose\" and Matheolus's \"Lamentations\". Her activism has drawn the fascination of modern feminists. Simone de Beauvoir wrote in 1949 that \"Épître au Dieu d'Amour\" was \"the first time we see a woman take up her pen in defence of her sex\".\n\nThe 1979 artwork \"The Dinner Party\" features a place setting for Christine de Pizan. In the 1980s Sandra Hindman published a study of the political events reverenced in the illuminations of Pizan's published works.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "347543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=347543", "title": "Critique of Pure Reason", "text": "Critique of Pure Reason\n\nThe Critique of Pure Reason () is a 1781 book by the German philosopher Immanuel Kant, in which the author seeks to determine the limits and scope of metaphysics. A heavily-revised second edition was published in 1787. Also referred to as Kant's \"First Critique,\" it was followed by the \"Critique of Practical Reason\" (1788) and the \"Critique of Judgment\" (1790). In the preface to the first edition, Kant explains that by a \"critique of pure reason\" he means not \"a critique of books and systems, but of the faculty of reason in general, in respect of all knowledge after which it may strive \"independently of all experience\"\" and that he aims to reach a decision about \"the possibility or impossibility of metaphysics\". The First Critique is often viewed as culminating several centuries of early-modern philosophy, and inaugurating modern philosophy.\n\nKant builds on the work of empiricist philosophers such as John Locke and David Hume, as well as rationalists such as Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz and Christian Wolff. He expounds new ideas on the nature of space and time, and tries to provide solutions to Hume's scepticism regarding human knowledge of the relation of cause and effect, and René Descartes' scepticism regarding knowledge of the external world. This is argued through the transcendental idealism of objects (as appearance) and their form of appearance. Kant regards the former \"as mere representations and not as things in themselves\", and the latter as \"only sensible forms of our intuition, but not determinations given for themselves or conditions of objects as things in themselves\". This grants the possibility of a priori knowledge, since objects as appearance \"must conform to our cognition . . . which is to establish something about objects before they are given to us\". Knowledge independent of experience Kant calls \"\"a priori\" knowledge, while knowledge obtained through experience is termed \"a posteriori\"\". According to Kant, a proposition is \"a priori\" if it is necessary and universal. A proposition is necessary if it could not possibly be false, and so cannot be denied without contradiction. A proposition is universal if it is true in all cases, and so does not admit of any exceptions. Knowledge gained \"a posteriori\" through the senses, Kant argues, never imparts absolute necessity and universality, because it is always possible that we might encounter an exception.\n\nKant claims to have discovered another attribute of propositions: the distinction between \"analytic\" and \"synthetic\" judgments. According to Kant, a proposition is analytic if the content of the \"predicate-concept\" of the proposition is already contained within the \"subject-concept\" of that proposition. For example, Kant considers the proposition \"All bodies are extended\" analytic, since the predicate-concept ('extended') is already contained within—or \"thought in\"—the subject-concept of the sentence ('body'). The distinctive character of analytic judgements was therefore that they can be known to be true simply by an analysis of the concepts contained in them; they are true by definition. In synthetic propositions, on the other hand, the predicate-concept is not already contained within the subject-concept. For example, Kant considers the proposition \"All bodies are heavy\" synthetic, since the concept 'body' does not already contain within it the concept 'weight'. Synthetic judgments therefore add something to a concept, whereas analytic judgments only explain what is already contained in the concept.\n\nPrior to Kant, it was thought that all \"a priori\" knowledge must be analytic. Kant, however, argues that our knowledge of mathematics, of the first principles of natural science, and of metaphysics, is both \"a priori\" and synthetic. The peculiar nature of this knowledge, Kant argues, cries out for explanation. The central problem of the \"Critique\" is therefore to answer the question: \"How are synthetic \"a priori\" judgements possible?\" It is a \"matter of life and death\" to metaphysics and to human reason, Kant argues, that the grounds of this kind of knowledge be explained.\n\nThough it received little attention when it was first published, the \"Critique\" later attracted attacks from both empiricist and rationalist critics, and became a source of controversy. It has exerted an enduring influence on Western philosophy, and helped to bring about the development of German idealism. \n\nBefore Kant, it was generally held that truths of reason must be analytic, meaning that what is stated in the predicate must already be present in the subject (for example, \"An intelligent man is intelligent\" or \"An intelligent man is a man\"). In either case, the judgment is analytic because it is ascertained by analyzing the subject. It was thought that all truths of reason, or necessary truths, are of this kind: that in all of them there is a predicate that is only part of the subject of which it is asserted. If this were so, attempting to deny anything that could be known \"a priori\" (for example, \"An intelligent man is not intelligent\" or \"An intelligent man is not a man\") would involve a contradiction. It was therefore thought that the law of contradiction is sufficient to establish all \"a priori\" knowledge.\n\nDavid Hume (1711–1776) at first accepted the general view of rationalism about \"a priori\" knowledge. However, upon closer examination of the subject, Hume discovered that some judgments thought to be analytic, especially those related to cause and effect, were actually synthetic (i.e., no analysis of the subject will reveal the predicate). They thus depend exclusively upon experience and are therefore \"a posteriori\".\n\nBefore Hume, rationalists had held that effect could be deduced from cause; Hume argued that it could not and from this inferred that nothing at all could be known \"a priori\" in relation to cause and effect. Kant (1724–1804), who was brought up under the auspices of rationalism, was deeply disturbed by Hume's skepticism. \"Kant tells us that David Hume awakened him from his dogmatic slumbers.\"\n\nKant decided to find an answer and spent at least twelve years thinking about the subject. Although the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" was set down in written form in just four to five months, while Kant was also lecturing and teaching, the work is a summation of the development of Kant's philosophy throughout that twelve-year period.\n\nKant's work was stimulated by his decision to take seriously Hume's skeptical conclusions about such basic principles as cause and effect, which had implications for Kant's grounding in rationalism. In Kant's view, Hume's skepticism rested on the premise that all ideas are presentations of sensory experience. The problem that Hume identified was that basic principles such as causality cannot be derived from sense experience only: experience shows only that one event regularly succeeds another, not that it is caused by it.\n\nIn section VI (\"The General Problem of Pure Reason\") of the introduction to the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", Kant explains that Hume stopped short of considering that a synthetic judgment could be made 'a priori'. Kant's goal was to find some way to derive cause and effect without relying on empirical knowledge. Kant rejects analytical methods for this, arguing that analytic reasoning cannot tell us anything that is not already self-evident, so his goal was to find a way to demonstrate how the synthetic a priori is possible.\n\nTo accomplish this goal, Kant argued that it would be necessary to use synthetic reasoning. However, this posed a new problem—how is it possible to have synthetic knowledge that is not based on empirical observation—that is, how are synthetic \"a priori\" truths possible? This question is exceedingly important, Kant maintains, because he contended that all important metaphysical knowledge is of synthetic a priori propositions. If it is impossible to determine which synthetic a priori propositions are true, he argues, then metaphysics as a discipline is impossible. The remainder of the Critique of Pure Reason is devoted to examining whether and how knowledge of synthetic a priori propositions is possible.\n\nKant argues that there are synthetic judgments such as the connection of cause and effect (e.g., \"... Every effect has a cause.\") where no analysis of the subject will produce the predicate. Kant reasons that statements such as those found in geometry and Newtonian physics are synthetic judgments. Kant uses the classical example of 7 + 5 = 12. No amount of analysis will find 12 in either 7 nor 5. Thus Kant arrives at the conclusion that all pure mathematics is synthetic though \"a priori\"; the number 7 is seven and the number 5 is five and the number 12 is twelve and the same principle applies to other numerals; in other words, they are universal and necessary. For Kant then, mathematics is synthetic judgment \"a priori\". Conventional reasoning would have regarded such an equation to be analytic a priori by considering both 7 and 5 to be part of one subject being analyzed, however Kant looked upon 7 and 5 as two separate values, with the value of five being applied to that of 7 and synthetically arriving at the logical conclusion that they equal 12. This conclusion led Kant into a new problem as he wanted to establish how this could be possible: How is pure mathematics possible? This also led him to inquire whether it could be possible to ground synthetic \"a priori\" knowledge for a study of metaphysics, because most of the principles of metaphysics from Plato through to Kant's immediate predecessors made assertions about the world or about God or about the soul that were not self-evident but which could not be derived from empirical observation (B18-24). For Kant, all post-Cartesian metaphysics is mistaken from its very beginning: the empiricists are mistaken because they assert that it is not possible to go beyond experience and the dogmatists are mistaken because they assert that it is possible to go beyond experience through theoretical reason.\n\nTherefore, Kant proposes a new basis for a science of metaphysics, posing the question: how is a science of metaphysics possible, if at all? According to Kant, only practical reason, the faculty of moral consciousness, the moral law of which everyone is immediately aware, makes it possible to know things as they are. This led to his most influential contribution to metaphysics: the abandonment of the quest to try to know the world as it is \"in itself\" independent of sense experience. He demonstrated this with a thought experiment, showing that it is not possible to meaningfully conceive of an object that exists outside of time and has no spatial components and is not structured in accordance with the categories of the understanding (\"Verstand\"), such as substance and causality. Although such an object cannot be conceived, Kant argues, there is no way of showing that such an object does not exist. Therefore, Kant says, the science of metaphysics must not attempt to reach beyond the limits of possible experience but must discuss only those limits, thus furthering the understanding of ourselves as thinking beings. The human mind is incapable of going beyond experience so as to obtain a knowledge of ultimate reality, because no direct advance can be made from pure ideas to objective existence.\n\nKant writes, \"Since, then, the receptivity of the subject, its capacity to be affected by objects, must necessarily precede all intuitions of these objects, it can readily be understood how the form of all appearances can be given prior to all actual perceptions, and so exist in the mind \"a priori\"\" (A26/B42). Appearance is then, via the faculty of transcendental imagination (\"Einbildungskraft\"), grounded systematically in accordance with the categories of the understanding. Kant's metaphysical system, which focuses on the operations of cognitive faculties (\"Erkenntnisvermögen\"), places substantial limits on knowledge not founded in the forms of sensibility (\"Sinnlichkeit\"). Thus it sees the error of metaphysical systems prior to the Critique as failing to first take into consideration the limitations of the human capacity for knowledge. According to Heidegger, transcendental imagination is what Kant also refers to as the unknown common root uniting sense and understanding, the two component parts of experience. Transcendental imagination is described in the first edition of the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" but Kant omits it from the second edition of 1787.\n\nIt is because he takes into account the role of people's cognitive faculties in structuring the known and knowable world that in the second preface to the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" Kant compares his critical philosophy to Copernicus' revolution in astronomy. Kant writes: \"Hitherto it has been assumed that all our knowledge must conform to objects. But all attempts to extend our knowledge of objects by establishing something in regard to them \"a priori\", by means of concepts, have, on this assumption, ended in failure. We must therefore make trial whether we may not have more success in the tasks of metaphysics, if we suppose that objects must conform to our knowledge\" (Bxvi). Just as Copernicus revolutionized astronomy by taking the position of the observer into account, Kant's critical philosophy takes into account the position of the knower of the world in general and reveals its impact on the structure of the known world. Kant's view is that in explaining the movement of celestial bodies Copernicus rejected the idea that the movement is in the stars and accepted it as a part of the spectator. Knowledge does not depend so much on the object of knowledge as on the capacity of the knower.\n\nKant's transcendental idealism should be distinguished from idealistic systems such as that of George Berkeley. While Kant claimed that phenomena depend upon the conditions of sensibility, space and time, and on the synthesizing activity of the mind manifested in the rule-based structuring of perceptions into a world of objects, this thesis is not equivalent to mind-dependence in the sense of Berkeley's idealism. Kant defines transcendental idealism:\n\nIn Kant's view, \"a priori\" intuitions and concepts provide some \"a priori\" knowledge, which also provides the framework for \"a posteriori\" knowledge. Kant also believed that causality is a conceptual organizing principle imposed upon nature, albeit nature understood as the sum of appearances that can be synthesized according to a priori concepts.\n\nIn other words, space and time are a form of perceiving and causality is a form of knowing. Both space and time and conceptual principles and processes pre-structure experience.\n\nThings as they are \"in themselves\"—the thing in itself or \"das Ding an sich\"—are unknowable. For something to become an object of knowledge, it must be experienced, and experience is structured by the mind—both space and time being the forms of intuition (\"Anschauung\" in German; for Kant, intuition is the process of sensing or the act of having a sensation) or perception, and the unifying, structuring activity of concepts. These aspects of mind turn things-in-themselves into the world of experience. There is never passive observation or knowledge.\n\nAccording to Kant, the transcendental ego—the \"Transcendental Unity of Apperception\"—is similarly unknowable. Kant contrasts the transcendental ego to the empirical ego, the active individual self subject to immediate introspection. One is aware that there is an \"I,\" a subject or self that accompanies one's experience and consciousness. Since one experiences it as it manifests itself in time, which Kant proposes is a subjective form of perception, one can know it only indirectly: as object, rather than subject. It is the empirical ego that distinguishes one person from another providing each with a definite character.\n\nThe \"Critique of Pure Reason\" is arranged around several basic distinctions. After the two Prefaces (the A edition Preface of 1781 and the B edition Preface of 1787) and the Introduction, the book is divided into the Doctrine of Elements and the Doctrine of Method:\n\nThe Doctrine of Elements sets out the \"a priori\" products of the mind, and the correct and incorrect use of these presentations. Kant further divides the Doctrine of Elements into the Transcendental Aesthetic and the Transcendental Logic, reflecting his basic distinction between sensibility and the understanding. In the Transcendental Aesthetic he argues that space and time are pure forms of intuition inherent in our faculty of sense. The Transcendental Logic is separated into the Transcendental Analytic and the Transcendental Dialectic:\n\nThe Doctrine of Method contains four sections. The first section, Discipline of Pure Reason, compares mathematical and logical methods of proof, and the second section, Canon of Pure Reason, distinguishes theoretical from practical reason.\n\nThe Divisions of \"Critique of Pure Reason\"\n\n\"Dedication\"\n\nThe Transcendental Aesthetic, as the \"Critique\" notes, deals with \"all principles of a priori sensibility\". As a further delimitation, it \"constitutes the first part of the transcendental doctrine of elements, in contrast to that which contains the principles of pure thinking, and is named transcendental logic\". In it, what is aimed at is \"pure intuition and the mere form of appearances, which is the only thing that sensibility can make available a priori\". It is thus an analytic of the a priori constitution of sensibility; through which \"Objects are therefore given to us . . . , and it alone affords us intuitions\". This in itself is an explication of the \"pure form of sensible intuitions in general [that] is to be encountered in the mind a priori\". Thus, pure form or intuition is the a priori \"wherein all of the manifold of appearances is intuited in certain relations\". from this, \"a science of all principles of a priori sensibility [is called] the transcendental aesthetic\". The above stems from the fact that \"there are two stems of human cognition . . . namely sensibility and understanding\". This division, as the critique notes, comes \"closer to the language and the sense of the ancients, among whom the division of cognition into αισθητα και νοητα is very well known\". An exposition on a priori intuitions is an analysis of the intentional constitution of sensibility. Since this lies a priori in the mind prior to actual object relation; \"The transcendental doctrine of the senses will have to belong to the first part of the science of elements, since the conditions under which alone the objects of human cognition are given precede those under which those objects are thought\".\n\nKant distinguishes between the matter and the form of appearances. The matter is \"that in the appearance that corresponds to sensation\" (A20/B34). The form is \"that which so determines the manifold of appearance that it allows of being ordered in certain relations\" (A20/B34). Kant's revolutionary claim is that the form of appearances—which he later identifies as space and time—is a contribution made by the faculty of sensation to cognition, rather than something that exists independently of the mind. This is the thrust of Kant's doctrine of the transcendental ideality of space and time.\n\nKant's arguments for this conclusion are widely debated among Kant scholars. Some see the argument as based on Kant's conclusions that our representation (\"Vorstellung\") of space and time is an \"a priori\" intuition. From here Kant is thought to argue that our representation of space and time as \"a priori\" intuitions entails that space and time are transcendentally ideal. It is undeniable from Kant's point of view that in Transcendental Philosophy, the difference of things as they appear and things as they are is a major philosophical discovery. Others see the argument as based upon the question of whether synthetic \"a priori\" judgments are possible. Kant is taken to argue that the only way synthetic \"a priori\" judgments, such as those made in geometry, are possible is if space is transcendentally ideal.\n\nIn Section I (Of Space) of Transcendental Aesthetic in the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" Kant poses the following questions: What then are time and space? Are they real existences? Or, are they merely relations or determinations of things, such, however, as would equally belong to these things in themselves, though they should never become objects of intuition; or, are they such as belong only to the form of intuition, and consequently to the subjective constitution of the mind, without which these predicates of time and space could not be attached to any object? The answer that space and time are real existences belongs to Newton. The answer that space and time are relations or determinations of things even when they are not being sensed belongs to Leibniz. Both answers maintain that space and time exist independently of the subject's awareness. This is exactly what Kant denies in his answer that space and time belong to the subjective constitution of the mind.\n\nKant gives two expositions of space and time: \"metaphysical\" and \"transcendental\". The metaphysical expositions of space and time are concerned with clarifying how those intuitions are known independently of experience. The transcendental expositions attempt to show how the metaphysical conclusions might be applied to enrich our understanding.\n\nIn the transcendental exposition, Kant refers back to his metaphysical exposition in order to show that the sciences would be impossible if space and time were not kinds of pure \"a priori\" intuitions. He asks the reader to take the proposition, \"two straight lines can neither contain any space nor, consequently, form a figure\", and then to try to derive this proposition from the concepts of a straight line and the number two. He concludes that it is simply impossible (A47-48/B65). Thus, since this information cannot be obtained from analytic reasoning, it must be obtained through synthetic reasoning, i.e., a synthesis of concepts (in this case two and straightness) with the pure (\"a priori\") intuition of space.\n\nIn this case, however, it was not experience that furnished the third term; otherwise, the necessary and universal character of geometry would be lost. Only space, which is a pure \"a priori\" form of intuition, can make this synthetic judgment, thus it must then be \"a priori\". If geometry does not serve this pure \"a priori\" intuition, it is empirical, and would be an experimental science, but geometry does not proceed by measurements—it proceeds by demonstrations.\n\nKant rests his demonstration of the priority of space on the example of geometry. He reasons that therefore if something exists, it needs to be intelligible. If someone attacked this argument, he would doubt the universality of geometry (which Kant believes no honest person would do).\n\nThe other part of the Transcendental Aesthetic argues that time is a pure \"a priori\" intuition that renders mathematics possible. Time is not a concept, since otherwise it would merely conform to formal logical analysis (and therefore, to the principle of non-contradiction). However, time makes it possible to deviate from the principle of non-contradiction: indeed, it is possible to say that A and non-A are in the same spatial location if one considers them in different times, and a sufficient alteration between states were to occur (A32/B48). Time and space cannot thus be regarded as existing in themselves. They are \"a priori\" forms of sensible intuition.\n\nThe current interpretation of Kant states that the subject inherently possesses the underlying conditions to perceive spatial and temporal presentations. The Kantian thesis claims that in order for the subject to have any experience at all, then it must be bounded by these forms of presentations (\"Vorstellung\"). Some scholars have offered this position as an example of psychological nativism, as a rebuke to some aspects of classical empiricism.\n\nKant's thesis concerning the transcendental ideality of space and time limits appearances to the forms of sensibility—indeed, they form the limits within which these appearances can count as sensible; and it necessarily implies that the thing-in-itself is neither limited by them nor can it take the form of an appearance within us apart from the bounds of sensibility (A48-49/B66). Yet the thing-in-itself is held by Kant to be the cause of that which appears, and this is where an apparent paradox of Kantian critique resides: while we are prohibited from absolute knowledge of the thing-in-itself, we can impute to it a cause beyond ourselves as a source of representations within us. Kant's view of space and time rejects both the space and time of Aristotelian physics and the space and time of Newtonian physics.\n\nIn the Transcendental Logic, there is a section (titled The Refutation of Idealism) that frees Kant's doctrine from any vestiges of subjective idealism, which would either doubt or deny the existence of external objects (B274-79). However, Senderowics warns that \"... If the Refutation of Idealism indeed addresses a question left unanswered by the previous introductory pages of the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", Kant's preceding comments contain a gap that needs to be bridged.\" Kant's distinction between the appearance and the thing-in-itself is not intended to imply that nothing knowable exists apart from consciousness, as with subjective idealism. Rather, it declares that knowledge is limited to phenomena as objects of a sensible intuition. In the Fourth Paralogism (\"... A Paralogism is a logical fallacy\"), Kant further certifies his philosophy as separate from that of subjective idealism by defining his position as a \"transcendental idealism\" in accord with empirical realism (A366–80), a form of direct realism. \"The Paralogisms of Pure Reason\" is the only chapter of the \"Dialectic\" that Kant rewrote for the second edition of the \"Critique of Pure Reason\". In the first edition, the Fourth Paralogism offers a defence of transcendental idealism, which Kant reconsidered and relocated in the second edition.\n\nWhereas the Transcendental Aesthetic was concerned with the role of the sensibility, the Transcendental Logic is concerned with the role of the understanding, which Kant defines as the faculty of the mind that deals with concepts. Knowledge, Kant argued, contains two components: intuitions, through which an object is given to us in sensibility, and concepts, through which an object is thought in understanding. In the Transcendental Aesthetic, he attempted to show that the \"a priori\" forms of intuition were space and time, and that these forms were the conditions of all possible intuition. It should therefore be expected that we should find similar \"a priori\" concepts in the understanding, and that these pure concepts should be the conditions of all possible thought. The Logic is divided into two parts: the Transcendental Analytic and the Transcendental Dialectic. The Analytic Kant calls a \"logic of truth\"; in it he aims to discover these pure concepts which are the conditions of all thought, and are thus what makes knowledge possible. The Transcendental Dialectic Kant calls a \"logic of illusion\"; in it he aims to expose the illusions that we create when we attempt to apply reason beyond the limits of experience.\n\nThe idea of a transcendental logic is that of a logic that gives an account of the origins of our knowledge as well as its relationship to objects. Kant contrasts this with the idea of a general logic, which abstracts from the conditions under which our knowledge is acquired, and from any relation that knowledge has to objects. According to Helge Svare \"... It is important to keep in mind what Kant says here about logic in general, and transcendental logic in particular, being the product of abstraction, so that we are not misled when a few pages later he emphasizes the pure, non-empirical character of the transcendental concepts or the categories.\"\n\nKant's investigations in the Transcendental Logic lead him to conclude that the understanding and reason can only legitimately be applied to things as they appear phenomenally to us in experience. What things are in themselves as being noumenal, independent of our cognition, remains limited by what is known through phenomenal experience.\n\nThe Transcendental Analytic is divided into an Analytic of Concepts and an Analytic of Principles, as well as a third section concerned with the distinction between phenomena and noumena. In Chapter III (Of the ground of the division of all objects into phenomena and noumena) of the Transcendental Analytic, Kant generalizes the implications of the Analytic in regard to transcendent objects preparing the way for the explanation in the Transcendental Dialectic about thoughts of transcendent objects, Kant's detailed theory of the content (\"Inhalt\") and origin of our thoughts about specific transcendent objects. The main sections of the Analytic of Concepts are The Metaphysical Deduction and The Transcendental Deduction of the Categories. The main sections of the Analytic of Principles are the Schematism, Axioms of Intuition, Anticipations of Perception, Analogies of Experience, Postulates and follow the same recurring tabular form:\n\nIn the 2nd edition, these sections are followed by a section titled the Refutation of Idealism.\n\nIn the Metaphysical Deduction, Kant aims to derive twelve pure concepts of the understanding (which he calls \"categories\") from the logical forms of judgment. In the following section, he will go on to argue that these categories are conditions of all thought in general. Kant arranges the forms of judgment in a \"table of judgments\", which he uses to guide the derivation of the \"table of categories\".\n\nThe role of the understanding is to make judgments. In judgment, the understanding employs concepts which apply to the intuitions given to us in sensibility. Judgments can take different logical forms, with each form combining concepts in different ways. Kant claims that if we can identify all of the possible logical forms of judgment, this will serve as a \"clue\" to the discovery of the most basic and general concepts that are employed in making such judgments, and thus that are employed in all thought.\n\nLogicians prior to Kant had concerned themselves to classify the various possible logical forms of judgment. Kant, with only minor modifications, accepts and adopts their work as correct and complete, and lays out all the logical forms of judgment in a table, reduced under four heads:\n\nUnder each head, there corresponds three logical forms of judgement:\n\nThis Aristotelian method for classifying judgments is the basis for his own twelve corresponding concepts of the understanding. In deriving these concepts, he reasons roughly as follows. If we are to possess pure concepts of the understanding, they must relate to the logical forms of judgement. However, if these pure concepts are to be applied to intuition, they must have content. But the logical forms of judgement are by themselves abstract and contentless. Therefore, to determine the pure concepts of the understanding we must identify concepts which \"both\" correspond to the logical forms of judgement, \"and\" are able to play a role in organising intuition. Kant therefore attempts to extract from each of the logical forms of judgement a concept which relates to intuition. For example, corresponding to the logical form of \"hypothetical\" judgement ('If \"p\", then \"q\"'), there corresponds the category of causality ('If one event, then another'). Kant calls these pure concepts 'categories', echoing the Aristotelian notion of a category as a concept which is not derived from any more general concept. He follows a similar method for the other eleven categories, then represents them in the following table:\n\nThese categories, then, are the fundamental, primary, or native concepts of the understanding. These flow from, or constitute the mechanism of understanding and its nature, and are inseparable from its activity. Therefore, for human thought, they are universal and necessary, or \"a priori\". As categories they are not contingent states or images of sensuous consciousness, and hence not to be thence derived. Similarly, they are not known to us independently of such consciousness or of sensible experience. On the one hand, they are exclusively involved in, and hence come to our knowledge exclusively through, the spontaneous activity of the understanding. This understanding is never active, however, until sensible data are furnished as material for it to act upon, and so it may truly be said that they become known to us \"only on the occasion of sensible experience.\" For Kant, in opposition to Christian Wolff and Thomas Hobbes, the categories exist only in the mind.\n\nThese categories are \"pure\" conceptions of the understanding, in as much as they are independent of all that is contingent in sense. They are not derived from what is called the \"matter\" of sense, or from particular, variable sensations. However, they are not independent of the universal and necessary form of sense. Again, Kant, in the \"Transcendental Logic,\" is professedly engaged with the search for an answer to the second main question of the Critique, How is pure physical science, or sensible knowledge, possible? Kant, now, has said, and, with reference to the kind of knowledge mentioned in the foregoing question, has said truly, that \"thoughts, without the content which perception supplies, are empty.\" This is not less true of \"pure\" thoughts, than of any others. The content which the pure conceptions, as categories of pure physical science or sensible knowledge, cannot derive from the matter of sense, they must and do derive from its pure form. And in this relation between the pure conceptions of the understanding and their pure content there is involved, as we shall see, the most intimate community of nature and origin between sense, on its formal side (space and time), and the understanding itself. For Kant, space and time are a priori intuitions. Out of a total of six arguments in favor of space as \"a priori\" intuition, Kant presents four of them in the Metaphysical Exposition of space: two argue for space \"a priori\" and two for space as intuition.\n\nIn the Transcendental Deduction, Kant aims to show that the categories derived in the Metaphysical Deduction are conditions of all possible experience. He achieves this proof roughly by the following line of thought: all representations must have some common ground if they are to be the source of possible knowledge (because extracting knowledge from experience requires the ability to compare and contrast representations that may occur at different times or in different places). This ground of all experience is the self-consciousness of the experiencing subject, and the constitution of the subject is such that all thought is rule-governed in accordance with the categories. It follows that the categories feature as necessary components in any possible experience.\n\nIn order for any concept to have meaning, it must be related to sense perception. The 12 categories, or \"a priori\" concepts, are related to phenomenal appearances through schemata. Each category has a schema. It is a connection through time between the category, which is an \"a priori\" concept of the understanding, and a phenomenal \"a posteriori\" appearance. These schemata are needed to link the pure category to sensed phenomenal appearances because the categories are, as Kant says, heterogeneous with sense intuition. Categories and sensed phenomena, however, do share one characteristic: time. Succession is the form of sense impressions and also of the Category of causality. Therefore, time can be said to be the schema of Categories or pure concepts of the understanding. According to Heidegger, for Kant \"... The schemata of pure concepts of understanding, the categories, are \"a priori\" time-determinations and as such they are a transcendental product of the pure power of imagination.\"\n\nIn order to answer criticisms of the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" that Transcendental Idealism denied the reality of external objects, Kant added a section to the second edition (1787) titled \"The Refutation of Idealism\" that turns the \"game\" of idealism against itself by arguing that self-consciousness presupposes external objects in space. Defining self-consciousness as a determination of the self in time, Kant argues that all determinations of time presuppose something permanent in perception and that this permanence cannot be in the self, since it is only through the permanence that one's existence in time can itself be determined. This argument inverted the supposed priority of inner over outer experience that had dominated philosophies of mind and knowledge since René Descartes. In Book II, chapter II, section III of the Transcendental Analytic, right under \"The Postulates of Empirical Thought\", Kant adds his well-known \"Widerlegung des Idealismus\" (Refutation of Idealism) where he refutes both Descartes' problematic idealism and Berkeley's dogmatic idealism. According to Kant, in problematic idealism the existence of objects is doubtful or impossible to prove while in dogmatic idealism, the existence of space and therefore of spatial objects is impossible. In contradistinction, Kant holds that external objects may be directly perceived and that such experience is a necessary presupposition of self-consciousness.\n\nAs an Appendix to the First Division of Transcendental Logic, Kant intends the \"Amphiboly of the Conceptions of Reflection\" to be a critique of Leibniz's metaphysics and a prelude to Transcendental Dialectic, the Second Division of Transcendental Logic. Kant introduces a whole set of new ideas called \"concepts of reflection\": identity/difference, agreement/opposition, inner/outer and matter/form. According to Kant, the categories do have but these concepts have no synthetic function in experience. These special concepts just help to make comparisons between concepts judging them either different or the same, compatible or incompatible. It is this particular action of making a judgement that Kant calls \"logical reflection.\" As Kant states: \"Through observation and analysis of appearances we penetrate to nature's inner recesses, and no one can say how far this knowledge may in time extend. But with all this knowledge, and even if the whole of nature were revealed to us, we should still never be able to answer those transcendental questions which go beyond nature. The reason of this is that it is not given to us to observe our own mind with any other intuition than that of inner sense; and that it is yet precisely in the mind that the secret of the source of our sensibility is located. The relation of sensibility to an object and what the transcendental ground of this [objective] unity may be, are matters undoubtedly so deeply concealed that we, who after all know even ourselves only through inner sense and therefore as appearance, can never be justified in treating sensibility as being a suitable instrument of investigation for discovering anything save always still other appearances eager as we yet are to explore their non-sensible cause.\" (A278/B334)\n\nFollowing the systematic treatment of a priori knowledge given in the transcendental analytic, the transcendental dialectic seeks to dissect dialectical illusions. Its task is effectively to expose the fraudulence of the non-empirical employment of the understanding. The Transcendental Dialectic shows how pure reason should not be used. According to Kant, the rational faculty is plagued with dialectic illusions as man attempts to know what can never be known.\n\nThis longer but less dense section of the Critique is composed of five essential elements, including an Appendix, as follows: (a) Introduction (to Reason and the Transcendental Ideas), (b) Rational Psychology (the nature of the soul), (c) Rational Cosmology (the nature of the world), (d) Rational Theology (God), and (e) Appendix (on the constitutive and regulative uses of reason).\n\nIn the introduction, Kant introduces a new faculty, human reason, positing that it is a unifying faculty that unifies the manifold of knowledge gained by the understanding. Another way of thinking of reason is to say that it searches for the 'unconditioned'; Kant had shown in the Second Analogy that every empirical event has a cause, and thus each event is conditioned by something antecedent to it, which itself has its own condition, and so forth. Reason seeks to find an intellectual resting place that may bring the series of empirical conditions to a close, to obtain knowledge of an 'absolute totality' of conditions, thus becoming unconditioned. All in all, Kant ascribes to reason the faculty to understand and at the same time criticize the illusions it is subject to.\n\nOne of the ways that pure reason erroneously tries to operate beyond the limits of possible experience is when it thinks that there is an immortal Soul in every person. Its proofs, however, are paralogisms, or the results of false reasoning.\n\nEvery one of my thoughts and judgments is based on the presupposition \"I think.\" \"I\" is the subject and the thoughts are the predicates. Yet I should not confuse the ever-present \"logical subject\" of my every thought with a permanent, immortal, \"real substance\" (soul). The logical subject is a mere idea, not a real substance. Unlike Descartes who believes that the soul may be known directly through reason, Kant asserts that no such thing is possible. Descartes declares \"cogito ergo sum\" but Kant denies that any knowledge of \"I\" may be possible. \"I\" is only the background of the field of apperception and as such lacks the experience of direct intuition that would make self-knowledge possible. This implies that the self in itself could never be known. Like Hume, Kant rejects knowledge of the \"I\" as substance. For Kant, the \"I\" that is taken to be the soul is purely logical and involves no intuitions. The \"I\" is the result of the \"a priori\" consciousness continuum not of direct intuition \"a posteriori\". It is apperception as the principle of unity in the consciousness continuum that dictates the presence of \"I\" as a singular logical subject of all the representations of a single consciousness. Although \"I\" seems to refer to the same \"I\" all the time, it is not really a permanent feature but only the logical characteristic of a unified consciousness.\n\nThe only use or advantage of asserting that the soul is simple is to differentiate it from matter and therefore prove that it is immortal, but the substratum of matter may also be simple. Since we know nothing of this substratum, both matter and soul may be fundamentally simple and therefore not different from each other. Then the soul may decay, as does matter. It makes no difference to say that the soul is simple and therefore immortal. Such a simple nature can never be known through experience. It has no objective validity. According to Descartes, the soul is indivisible. This paralogism mistakes the unity of apperception for the unity of an indivisible substance called the soul. It is a mistake that is the result of the first paralogism. It is impossible that thinking (\"Denken\") could be composite for if the thought by a single consciousness were to be distributed piecemeal among different consciousnesses, the thought would be lost. According to Kant, the most important part of this proposition is that a multi-faceted presentation requires a single subject. This paralogism misinterprets the metaphysical oneness of the subject by interpreting the unity of apperception as being indivisible and the soul simple as a result. According to Kant, the simplicity of the soul as Descartes believed cannot be inferred from the \"I think\" as it is assumed to be there in the first place. Therefore, it is a tautology.\n\nIn order to have coherent thoughts, I must have an \"I\" that is not changing and that thinks the changing thoughts. Yet we cannot prove that there is a permanent soul or an undying \"I\" that constitutes my person. I only know that I am one person during the time that I am conscious. As a subject who observes my own experiences, I attribute a certain identity to myself, but, to another observing subject, I am an object of his experience. He may attribute a different persisting identity to me. In the third paralogism, the \"I\" is a self-conscious person in a time continuum, which is the same as saying that personal identity is the result of an immaterial soul. The third paralogism mistakes the \"I\", as unit of apperception being the same all the time, with the everlasting soul. According to Kant, the thought of \"I\" accompanies every personal thought and it is this that gives the illusion of a permanent I. However, the permanence of \"I\" in the unity of apperception is not the permanence of substance. For Kant, permanence is a schema, the conceptual means of bringing intuitions under a category. The paralogism confuses the permanence of an object seen from without with the permanence of the \"I\" in a unity of apperception seen from within. From the oneness of the apperceptive \"I\" nothing may be deduced. The \"I\" itself shall always remain unknown. The only ground for knowledge is the intuition, the basis of sense experience.\n\nThe soul is not separate from the world. They exist for us only in relation to each other. Whatever we know about the external world is only a direct, immediate, internal experience. The world appears, in the way that it appears, as a mental phenomenon. We cannot know the world as a thing-in-itself, that is, other than as an appearance within us. To think about the world as being totally separate from the soul is to think that a mere phenomenal appearance has independent existence outside of us. If we try to know an object as being other than an appearance, it can only be known as a phenomenal appearance, never otherwise. We cannot know a separate, thinking, non-material soul or a separate, non-thinking, material world because we cannot know things, as to what they may be by themselves, beyond being objects of our senses. The fourth paralogism is passed over lightly or not treated at all by commentators. In the first edition of the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", the fourth paralogism is addressed to refuting the thesis that there is no certainty of the existence of the external world. In the second edition of the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", the task at hand becomes the Refutation of Idealism. Sometimes, the fourth paralogism is taken as one of the most awkward of Kant's invented tetrads. Nevertheless, in the fourth paralogism, there is a great deal of philosophizing about the self that goes beyond the mere refutation of idealism. In both editions, Kant is trying to refute the same argument for the non-identity of mind and body. In the first edition, Kant refutes the Cartesian doctrine that there is direct knowledge of inner states only and that knowledge of the external world is exclusively by inference. Kant claims mysticism is one of the characteristics of Platonism, the main source of dogmatic idealism. Kant explains skeptical idealism by developing a syllogism called \"The Fourth Paralogism of the Ideality of Outer Relation:\"\n\n\nKant may have had in mind an argument by Descartes:\n\nIt is questionable that the fourth paralogism should appear in a chapter on the soul. What Kant implies about Descartes' argument in favor of the immaterial soul is that the argument rests upon a mistake on the nature of objective judgement not on any misconceptions about the soul. The attack is mislocated.\n\nThese Paralogisms cannot be proven for speculative reason and therefore can give no certain knowledge about the Soul. However, they can be retained as a guide to human behavior. In this way, they are necessary and sufficient for practical purposes. In order for humans to behave properly, they can suppose that the soul is an imperishable substance, it is indestructibly simple, it stays the same forever, and it is separate from the decaying material world. On the other hand, anti-rationalist critics of Kant's ethics consider it too abstract, alienating, altruistic or detached from human concern to actually be able to guide human behavior. It is then that the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" offers the best defense, demonstrating that in human concern and behavior, the influence of rationality is preponderant.\n\nKant presents the four antinomies of reason in the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" as going beyond the rational intention of reaching a conclusion. For Kant, an antinomy is a pair of faultless arguments in favor of opposite conclusions. Historically, Gottfried Leibniz and Samuel Clarke (Newton's spokesman) had just recently engaged in a titanic debate of unprecedented repercussions. Kant's formulation of the arguments was affected accordingly.\n\nThe Ideas of Rational Cosmology are dialectical. They result in four kinds of opposing assertions, each of which is logically valid. The antinomy, with its resolution, is as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\nAccording to Kant, rationalism came to fruition by defending the thesis of each antinomy while empiricism evolved into new developments by working to better the arguments in favor of each antithesis.\n\nPure reason mistakenly goes beyond its relation to possible experience when it concludes that there is a Being who is the most real thing (\"ens realissimum\") conceivable. This \"ens realissimum\" is the philosophical origin of the idea of God. This personified object is postulated by Reason as the subject of all predicates, the sum total of all reality. Kant called this Supreme Being, or God, the Ideal of Pure Reason because it exists as the highest and most complete condition of the possibility of all objects, their original cause and their continual support. However, Kant's explication of the theological idea is notoriously unfathomable.\n\nThe ontological proof can be traced back to Anselm of Canterbury (1033–1109). Anselm presented the proof in chapter II of a short treatise titled \"Discourse on the existence of God.\" It was not Kant but the monk Gaunilo and later the Scholastic Thomas Aquinas who first challenged the logical consistency of the proof. Aquinas went on to provide his own proofs for the existence of God in what are known as the Five Ways.\n\nThe ontological proof considers the concept of the most real Being (\"ens realissimum\") and concludes that it is necessary.\nThe ontological argument states that God exists because he is perfect. If he didn't exist, he would be less than perfect. Existence is assumed to be a predicate or attribute of the subject, God, but Kant asserted that existence is not a predicate. Existence or Being is merely the infinitive of the copula or linking, connecting verb \"is\" in a declarative sentence. It connects the subject to a predicate. \"Existence is evidently not a real predicate ... The small word \"is\", is not an additional predicate, but only serves to put the predicate \"in relation\" to the subject.\" (A599) Also, we cannot accept a mere concept or mental idea as being a real, external thing or object. The Ontological Argument starts with a mere mental concept of a perfect God and tries to end with a real, existing God.\n\nThe argument is essentially deductive in nature. Given a certain fact, it proceeds to infer another from it. The method pursued, then, is that of deducing the fact of God's being from the a priori idea of him. If man finds that the idea of God is necessarily involved in his self-consciousness, it is legitimate for him to proceed from this notion to the actual existence of the divine being. In other words, the idea of God necessarily includes existence. It may include it in several ways. One may argue, for instance, according to the method of Descartes, and say that the conception of God could have originated only with the divine being himself, therefore the idea possessed by us is based on the prior existence of God himself. Or we may allege that we have the idea that God is the most necessary of all beings—that is to say, he belongs to the class of realities; consequently it cannot but be a fact that he exists. This is held to be proof \"per saltum\". A leap takes place from the premise to the conclusion, and all intermediate steps are omitted. The implication is that premise and conclusion stand over against one another without any obvious, much less necessary, connection. A jump is made from thought to reality. Kant here objects that being or existence is not a mere attribute that may be added onto a subject, thereby increasing its qualitative content. The predicate, being, adds something to the subject that no mere quality can give. It informs us that the idea is not a mere conception, but is also an actually existing reality. Being, as Kant thinks, actually increases the concept itself in such a way as to transform it. You may attach as many attributes as you please to a concept; you do not thereby lift it out of the subjective sphere and render it actual. So you may pile attribute upon attribute on the conception of God, but at the end of the day you are not necessarily one step nearer his actual existence. So that when we say \"God exists\", we do not simply attach a new attribute to our conception; we do far more than this implies. We pass our bare concept from the sphere of inner subjectivity to that of actuality. This is the great vice of the Ontological argument. The idea of ten dollars is different from the fact only in reality. In the same way the conception of God is different from the fact of his existence only in reality. When, accordingly, the Ontological proof declares that the latter is involved in the former, it puts forward nothing more than a mere statement. No proof is forthcoming precisely where proof is most required. We are not in a position to say that the idea of God includes existence, because it is of the very nature of ideas not to include existence.\n\nKant explains that being not being a predicate could not characterize a thing. Logically, it is the copula of a judgment. In the proposition, \"God is almighty\", the copula \"is\" does not add a new predicate; it only unites a predicate to a subject. To take God with all its predicates and say that \"God is\" is equivalent to \"God exists\" or that \"There is a God\" is to jump to a conclusion as no new predicate is being attached to God. The content of both subject and predicate is one and the same. According to Kant then, existence is not really a predicate. Therefore, there is really no connection between the idea of God and God's appearance or disappearance. No statement about God whatsoever may establish God's existence. Kant makes a distinction between \"in intellectus\" (in mind) and \"in re\" (in reality or in fact) so that questions of being are \"a priori\" and questions of existence are resolved \"a posteriori\".\n\nThe cosmological proof considers the concept of an absolutely necessary Being and concludes that it has the most reality. In this way, the cosmological proof is merely the converse of the ontological proof. Yet the cosmological proof purports to start from sense experience. It says, \"If anything exists in the cosmos, then there must be an absolutely necessary Being. \" It then claims that there is only one concept of an absolutely necessary object. That is the concept of a Supreme Being who has maximum reality. Only such a supremely real being would be necessary and independently sufficient without compare, but this is the Ontological Proof again, which was asserted \"a priori\" without sense experience.\n\nSummarizing the cosmological argument further, it may be stated as follows: \"Contingent things exist—at least I exist; and as they are not self-caused, nor capable of explanation as an infinite series, it is requisite to infer that a necessary being, on whom they depend, exists.\" Seeing that this being exists, he belongs to the realm of reality. Seeing that all things issue from him, he is the most necessary of beings, for only a being who is self-dependent, who possesses all the conditions of reality within himself, could be the origin of contingent things. And such a being is God. This proof is invalid for three chief reasons. First, it makes use of a category, namely, Cause. And, as has been already pointed out, it is not possible to apply this, or any other, category except to the matter given by sense under the general conditions of space and time. If, then, we employ it in relation to Deity, we try to force its application in a sphere where it is useless, and incapable of affording any information. Once more, we are in the now familiar difficulty of the paralogism of Rational Psychology or of the Antinomies. The category has meaning only when applied to phenomena. Yet God is a noumenon. Second, it mistakes an idea of absolute necessity—an idea that is nothing more than an ideal—for a synthesis of elements in the phenomenal world or world of experience. This necessity is not an object of knowledge, derived from sensation and set in shape by the operation of categories. It cannot be regarded as more than an inference. Yet the cosmological argument treats it as if it were an object of knowledge exactly on the same level as perception of any thing or object in the course of experience. Thirdly, it presupposes the Ontological argument, already proved false. It does this, because it proceeds from the conception of the necessity of a certain being to the fact of his existence. Yet it is possible to take this course only if idea and fact are convertible with one another, and it has just been proved that they are not so convertible.\n\nThe physico-theological proof of God's existence is supposed to be based on \"a posteriori\" sensed experience of nature and not on mere \" a priori\" abstract concepts. It observes that the objects in the world have been intentionally arranged with great wisdom. The fitness of this arrangement could never have occurred randomly, without purpose. The world must have been caused by an intelligent power. The unity of the relation between all of the parts of the world leads us to infer that there is only one cause of everything. That one cause is a perfect, mighty, wise, and self-sufficient Being. This physico-theology does not, however, prove with certainty the existence of God. For this, we need something absolutely necessary that consequently has all-embracing reality, but this is the Cosmological Proof, which concludes that an all-encompassing real Being has absolutely necessary existence. All three proofs can be reduced to the Ontological Proof, which tried to make an objective reality out of a subjective concept.\n\nIn the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", Kant abandons the attempt to prove the existence of God although Kant's real intention is to attempt to disprove the non-existence of God. Rather than proving the existence of God, Kant is really trying to disprove the non-existence of God since no one can prove the non-existence of God. In abandoning any attempt to prove the existence of God, Kant declares the three proofs of rational theology known as the ontological, the cosmological and the physico-theological as quite untenable.\n\nThe second book in the \"Critique\", and by far the shorter of the two, attempts to lay out the formal conditions of the complete system of pure reason.\n\nIn the Transcendental Dialectic, Kant showed how pure reason is improperly used when it is not related to experience. In the Method of Transcendentalism, he explained the proper use of pure reason.\n\nIn section I, the discipline of pure reason in the sphere of dogmatism, of chapter I, the discipline of pure reason, of Part II, transcendental discipline of method, of the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", Kant enters into the most extensive discussion of the relationship between mathematical theory and philosophy.\n\nDiscipline is the restraint, through caution and self-examination, that prevents philosophical pure reason from applying itself beyond the limits of possible sensual experience. Philosophy cannot possess dogmatic certainty. Philosophy, unlike mathematics, cannot have definitions, axioms or demonstrations. All philosophical concepts must be ultimately based on \"a posteriori\", experienced intuition. This is different from algebra and geometry, which use concepts that are derived from \"a priori\" intuitions, such as symbolic equations and spatial figures. Kant's basic intention in this section of the text is to describe why reason should not go beyond its already well-established limits. In section I, the discipline of pure reason in the sphere of dogmatism, Kant clearly explains why philosophy cannot do what mathematics can do in spite of their similarities. Kant also explains that when reason goes beyond its own limits, it becomes dogmatic. For Kant, the limits of reason lie in the field of experience as, after all, all knowledge depends on experience. According to Kant, a dogmatic statement would be a statement that reason accepts as true even though it goes beyond the bounds of experience.\n\nRestraint should be exercised in the polemical use of pure reason. Kant defined this polemical use as the defense against dogmatic negations. For example, if it is dogmatically affirmed that God exists or that the soul is immortal, a dogmatic negation could be made that God doesn't exist or that the soul is not immortal. Such dogmatic assertions can't be proved. The statements are not based on possible experience. In section II, the discipline of pure reason in polemics, Kant argues strongly against the polemical use of pure reason. The dogmatic use of reason would be the acceptance as true of a statement that goes beyond the bounds of reason while the polemic use of reason would be the defense of such statement against any attack that could be raised against it. For Kant, then, there cannot possibly be any polemic use of pure reason. Kant argues against the polemic use of pure reason and considers it improper on the grounds that opponents cannot engage in a rational dispute based on a question that goes beyond the bounds of experience.\n\nKant claimed that adversaries should be freely allowed to speak reason. In return, they should be opposed through reason. Dialectical strife leads to an increase of reason's knowledge. Yet there should be no dogmatic polemical use of reason. The critique of pure reason is the tribunal for all of reason's disputes. It determines the rights of reason in general. We should be able to openly express our thoughts and doubts. This leads to improved insight. We should eliminate polemic in the form of opposed dogmatic assertions that cannot be related to possible experience.\n\nAccording to Kant, the censorship of reason is the examination and possible rebuke of reason. Such censorship leads to doubt and skepticism. After dogmatism produces opposing assertions, skepticism usually occurs. The doubts of skepticism awaken reason from its dogmatism and bring about an examination of reason's rights and limits. It is necessary to take the next step after dogmatism and skepticism. This is the step to criticism. By criticism, the limits of our knowledge are proved from principles, not from mere personal experience.\n\nIf criticism of reason teaches us that we can't know anything unrelated to experience, can we have hypotheses, guesses, or opinions about such matters? We can only imagine a thing that would be a possible object of experience. The hypotheses of God or a soul cannot be dogmatically affirmed or denied, but we have a practical interest in their existence. It is therefore up to an opponent to prove that they don't exist. Such hypotheses can be used to expose the pretensions of dogmatism. Kant explicitly praises Hume on his critique of religion for being beyond the field of natural science. However, Kant goes so far and not further in praising Hume basically because of Hume's skepticism. If only Hume would be critical rather than skeptical, Kant would be all-praises. In concluding that there is no polemical use of pure reason, Kant also concludes there is no skeptical use of pure reason. In section II, the discipline of pure reason in polemics, in a special section, scepticism not a permanent state for human reason, Kant mentions Hume but denies the possibility that skepticism could possibly be the final end of reason or could possibly serve its best interests.\n\nProofs of transcendental propositions about pure reason (God, soul, free will, causality, simplicity) must first prove whether the concept is valid. Reason should be moderated and not asked to perform beyond its power. The three rules of the proofs of pure reason are: (1) consider the legitimacy of your principles, (2) each proposition can have only one proof because it is based on one concept and its general object, and (3) only direct proofs can be used, never indirect proofs (e.g., a proposition is true because its opposite is false). By attempting to directly prove transcendental assertions, it will become clear that pure reason can gain no speculative knowledge and must restrict itself to practical, moral principles. The dogmatic use of reason is called into question by the skeptical use of reason but skepticism does not present a permanent state for human reason. Kant proposes instead a critique of pure reason by means of which the limitations of reason are clearly established and the field of knowledge is circumscribed by experience. According to the rationalists and skeptics, there are analytic judgments \"a priori\" and synthetic judgments \"a posteriori\". Analytic judgments \"a posteriori\" do not really exist. Added to all these rational judgments is Kant's great discovery of the synthetic judgment \"a priori\".\n\nThe canon of pure reason is a discipline for the limitation of pure reason. The analytic part of logic in general is a canon for the understanding and reason in general. However, the Transcendental Analytic is a canon of the pure understanding for only the pure understanding is able to judge synthetically \"a priori\".\n\nThe speculative propositions of God, immortal soul, and free will have no cognitive use but are valuable to our moral interest. In pure philosophy, reason is morally (practically) concerned with what ought to be done if the will is free, if there is a God, and if there is a future world. Yet, in its actual practical employment and use, reason is only concerned with the existence of God and a future life. Basically, the canon of pure reason deals with two questions: Is there a God? Is there a future life? These questions are translated by the canon of pure reason into two criteria: What ought I to do? and What may I hope for? yielding the postulates of God's own existence and a future life, or life in the future.\n\nThe greatest advantage of the philosophy of pure reason is negative, the prevention of error. Yet moral reason can provide positive knowledge. There can't be a canon, or system of \"a priori\" principles, for the correct use of speculative reason. However, there can be a canon for the practical (moral) use of reason.\n\nReason has three main questions and answers:\n\n\nReason tells us that there is a God, the supreme good, who arranges a future life in a moral world. If not, moral laws would be idle fantasies. Our happiness in that intelligible world will exactly depend on how we have made ourselves worthy of being happy. The union of speculative and practical reason occurs when we see God's reason and purpose in nature's unity of design or general system of ends. The speculative extension of reason is severely limited in the transcendental dialectics of the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", which Kant would later fully explore in the \"Critique of Practical Reason\".\n\nIn the transcendental use of reason, there can be neither opinion nor knowledge. Reason results in a strong belief in the unity of design and purpose in nature. This unity requires a wise God who provides a future life for the human soul. Such a strong belief rests on moral certainty, not logical certainty. Even if a person has no moral beliefs, the fear of God and a future life acts as a deterrent to evil acts, because no one can prove the non-existence of God and an afterlife. Does all of this philosophy merely lead to two articles of faith, namely, God and the immortal soul? With regard to these essential interests of human nature, the highest philosophy can achieve no more than the guidance, which belongs to the pure understanding. Some would even go so far as to interpret the Transcendental Analytic of the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" as a return to the Cartesian epistemological tradition and a search for truth through certainty.\n\nAll knowledge from pure reason is architectonic in that it is a systematic unity. The entire system of metaphysic consists of: (1.) Ontology—objects in general; (2.) Rational Physiology—given objects; (3.) Rational cosmology—the whole world; (4.) Rational Theology—God. Metaphysic supports religion and curbs the extravagant use of reason beyond possible experience. The components of metaphysic are criticism, metaphysic of nature, and metaphysic of morals. These constitute philosophy in the genuine sense of the word. It uses science to gain wisdom. Metaphysic investigates reason, which is the foundation of science. Its censorship of reason promotes order and harmony in science and maintains metaphysic's main purpose, which is general happiness. In chapter III, the architectonic of pure reason, Kant defines metaphysics as the critique of pure reason in relation to pure \"a priori\" knowledge. Morals, analytics and dialectics for Kant constitute metaphysics, which is philosophy and the highest achievement of human reason.\n\nKant writes that metaphysics began with the study of the knowledge of God and the nature of a future world. It was concluded early that good conduct would result in happiness in another world as arranged by God. The object of rational knowledge was investigated by sensualists (Epicurus), and intellectualists (Plato). Sensualists claimed that only the objects of the senses are real. Intellectualists asserted that true objects are known only by the understanding mind. Aristotle and Locke thought that the pure concepts of reason are derived only from experience. Plato and Leibniz contended that they come from reason, not sense experience, which is illusory. Epicurus never speculated beyond the limits of experience. Locke, however, said that the existence of God and the immortality of the soul could be proven. Those who follow the naturalistic method of studying the problems of pure reason use their common, sound, or healthy reason, not scientific speculation. Others, who use the scientific method, are either dogmatists (Wolff) or skeptics (Hume). In Kant's view, all of the above methods are faulty. The method of criticism remains as the path toward the completely satisfying answers to the metaphysical questions about God and the future life in another world.\n\n\nKant distinguishes between two different fundamental \"types of representation\": intuitions and concepts:\n\nKant divides intuitions in the following ways:\n\nKant also distinguished between \"a priori\" (pure) and \"a posteriori\" (empirical) concepts.\n\nKant borrowed the term \"categories\" from Aristotle, but with the concession that Aristotle's own categorizations were faulty. Aristotle's imperfection is apparent from his inclusion of \"some modes of pure sensibility (\"quando, ubi, situs, \"also \"prius, simul\"), also an empirical concept (\"motus\"), none of which can belong to this genealogical register of the understanding.\"\n\nKant's divisions, however, are guided by his search in the mind for what makes synthetic \"a priori\" judgments possible.\n\nThe \"Critique of Pure Reason\" was the first of Kant's works to become famous. According to Frederick C. Beiser, the work helped to discredit rationalist metaphysics of the kind associated with Leibniz and Wolff which had appeared to provide \"a priori\" knowledge of the existence of God, although Beiser notes that this school of thought was already in decline by the time the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" was published. In his view, Kant's philosophy became successful in the early 1790s partly because Kant's doctrine of \"practical faith\" seemed to provide a justification for moral, religious, and political beliefs without an \"a priori\" knowledge of God. However, the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" received little attention when it was first published. Kant did not expect reviews from anyone qualified to appraise the work, and initially heard only complaints about its obscurity. The theologian and philosopher Johann Friedrich Schultz wrote that the public saw the work as \"a sealed book\" consisting in nothing but \"hieroglyphics\". The first review appeared in the \"Zugaben zu den Göttinger gelehrte Anzeigen\" in 1782. The review, which denied that there is any distinction between Kant's idealism and that of Berkeley, was anonymous and became notorious. Kant reformulated his views because of it, redefining his transcendental idealism in the \"Prolegomena to Any Future Metaphysics\" (1783) and the second edition of the \"Critique of Pure Reason\". The review was denounced by Kant, but defended by Kant's empiricist critics, and the resulting controversy drew attention to the \"Critique of Pure Reason\".\n\nKant believed that the anonymous review was biased and deliberately misunderstood his views. He discussed it in an appendix of the \"Prolegomena\", accusing its author of failing to understand or even address the main issue addressed in the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", the possibility of synthetic a priori judgments, and insisting on the distinction between transcendental idealism and the idealism of Berkeley. In a letter to Kant, the philosopher Christian Garve admitted to having written the review, which he disowned due to editorial changes outside his control. Though Garve did not inform Kant of this, the changes were made by J. G. Feder. Following the controversy over Garve's review, there were no more reviews of the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" in 1782 except for a brief notice. The work received greater attention only in 1784, when Shultz's commentary was published and a review by the philosopher and historian of philosophy Dietrich Tiedemann was published in the \"Hessische Beyträge zur Gelehrsamkeit und Kunst\". Tiedemann attacked the possibility of the synthetic \"a priori\" and defended the possibility of metaphysics. He denied the synthetic status of mathematical judgments, maintaining that they can be shown to be analytic if the subject term is analyzed in full detail, and criticized Kant's theory of the \"a priori\" nature of space, asking how it was possible to distinguish one place from another when the parts of absolute space are identical in themselves. Kant's issued a hostile reaction. Kant maintained that Tiedemann did not understand the problems facing the critical philosophy.\n\nChristian Gottlieb Selle, an empiricist critic of Kant influenced by Locke to whom Kant had sent one of the complimentary copies of the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", was disappointed by the work, considering it a reversion to rationalism and scholasticism, and began a polemical campaign against Kant, arguing against the possibility of all \"a priori\" knowledge. His writings received widespread attention and created controversy. Though Kant was unable to write a reply to Selle, he did engage in a public dispute with Feder, after learning of Feder's role in the review published in \"Zugaben zu den Göttinger gelehrte Anzeigen\". In 1788, Feder published \"Ueber Raum und Causalität: Zur Prüfung der kantischen Philosophie\", a polemic against the \"Critique of Pure Reason\" in which he argued that Kant employed a \"dogmatic method\" and was still employing the methodology of rationalist metaphysics, and that Kant's transcendental philosophy transcends the limits of possible experience. Feder believed that Kant's fundamental error was his contempt for \"empirical philosophy\", which explains the faculty of knowledge according to the laws of nature. With Christian Meiners, he edited a journal, the \"Philosophische Bibliothek\", opposed to Kantianism.\n\nFeder's campaign against Kant was unsuccessful and the \"Philosophische Bibliothek\" ceased publication after only a few issues. Other critics of Kant continued to argue against the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", with Gottlob August Tittel, who was influenced by Locke, publishing several polemics against Kant, who, although worried by some of Tittel's criticisms, addressed him only in a footnote in the preface to the \"Critique of Practical Reason\". Tittel was one of the first to make criticisms of Kant, such as those concerning Kant's table of categories, the categorical imperative, and the problem of applying the categories to experience, that have continued to be influential. The philosopher Adam Weishaupt, founder and leader of the secret society the Illuminati, and an ally of Feder, also published several polemics against Kant, which attracted controversy and generated excitement. Weishaupt charged that Kant's philosophy leads to complete subjectivism and the denial of all reality independent of passing states of consciousness, a view he considered self-refuting. Herman Andreas Pistorius was another empiricist critic of Kant. Kant took Pistorius more seriously than his other critics and believed that he had made some of the most important objections to the \"Critique of Pure Reason\". Beiser writes that many sections of the \"Critique of Practical Reason\" are \"disguised polemics against Pistorius\". Pistorius argued that, if Kant were consistent, his form of idealism would not be an improvement over that of Berkeley, and that Kant's philosophy contains internal contradictions.\n\nThough the followers of Wolff, such as J. G. E. Maass, J. F. Flatt, and J. A. Ulrich, initially ignored the \"Critique of Pure Reason\", they began to publish polemics against Kant in 1788. The theologian Johann Augustus Eberhard began to publish the \"Philosophisches Magazin\", which was dedicated to defending Wolff's philosophy. The Wolffian critics argued that Kant's philosophy inevitably ends in skepticism and the impossibility of knowledge, defended the possibility of rational knowledge of the supersensible world as the only way of avoiding solipsism. They maintained that the criterion Kant proposed to distinguish between analytic and synthetic judgments had been known to Leibniz and was useless, since it was too vague to determine which judgments are analytic or synthetic in specific cases. These arguments led to a controversy between the Wolffians and Kant's followers over the originality and adequacy of Kant's criterion. The Wolffian campaign against Kant was ultimately unsuccessful. Beiser argues that the decisive reason for Kant's victory over the Wolffians was the French Revolution, writing that, \"The political revolution in France seemed to find its abstract formulation with the philosophical revolution in Germany.\" Specifically, he concludes that the principle of autonomy, which has an important role in Kant's ethics, appeared to express and justify the egalitarian demands behind the French Revolution.\n\nThe \"Critique of Pure Reason\" has exerted an enduring influence on Western philosophy. The constructive aspect of the work, Kant's attempt to ground the conditions for the possibility of objects in the conditions of experience, helped bring about the development of German idealism. However, the work's destructive potential influenced Young Hegelians such as Bruno Bauer, Ludwig Feuerbach, and Karl Marx, and also Friedrich Nietzsche, whose philosophy has been seen as a form of \"radical Kantianism\" by Howard Caygill. Other interpretations of the \"Critique\" by philosophers and historians of philosophy have stressed different aspects of the work. The late 19th-century neo-Kantians Hermann Cohen and Heinrich Rickert focused on its philosophical justification of science, Martin Heidegger and Heinz Heimsoeth on aspects of ontology, and Peter Strawson on the limits of reason within the boundaries of sensory experience. Hannah Arendt and Jean-François Lyotard dealt with its work of orientation of a limited understanding in the field of world history.\n\nThe A and B numbers used as standard references refer to the page numbers of the first (1781) and second (1787) German editions respectively. Sometimes NKS numbers are used to refer to pages of the Norman Kemp Smith English translation (St. Martin's Press, Macmillan, 1929).\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10641870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10641870", "title": "David Bell (philosopher)", "text": "David Bell (philosopher)\n\nDavid Andrew Bell (born 1947) is a British philosopher. He is emeritus professor of philosophy at the University of Sheffield, He studied in Dublin (Trinity College), Göttingen (Georg-August Universität) and Canada (McMaster University), and is best known for his work on the philosophers Gottlob Frege, Immanuel Kant, and Edmund Husserl, and also on topics such as solipsism, phenomenology, the theory of thought and judgement, and the history of the Analytic Tradition.\n\nBell's awards include: Radcliffe Research Fellowship (1986–87); Alexander von Humboldt Research Fellowship (1988); British Academy Research Readership (1993); and the Alexander von Humboldt Prize in Philosophy (1995). He has held the posts of Visiting Professor, Institute of Philosophy, University of Leuven, (1987); Honorary Professor, University of Keele (1993–96); and Visiting Professor, Ludwig Maximillians Universität München (1994) He was a Fellow of the Wissenschaftskolleg zu Berlin [Institute of Advanced Study] (1995–96). And in 2001-2 he was President of the Mind Association.\n\nBell has been influential in seeking to integrate the Analytic (predominantly anglophone) and the Continental (mainly French and German) traditions in philosophy. In 1993, together with Mark Sacks, he was instrumental in founding a new journal, \"The European Journal of Philosophy\" with the aim of proving 'a platform to which those both inside and outside Europe can turn to find some of the diversity ... in European philosophy', and thus overcome the insularity and at times hostility that has characterized aspects of that philosophy during the last century. In 2015 the \"EJP\" was voted among the top 20 philosophy journals world-wide. In 1999 Bell published an influential study of Husserl, in which analytic techniques were applied to a central figure of continental phenomenology.\n\n\"Frege's Theory of Judgement,\" Oxford University Press, 1979.\n\n'How \"Russellian\" was Frege?', \"Mind,\" vol 99 (1990), pp. 267–277.\n\n'Reference and sense: An Epitome', \"Philosophical Quarterly\", vol 34 (1984), pp. 369–372.\n\n'The Place of the \"Grundlagen\" in Frege's Development', \"Philosophical Quarterly,\" vol 31 (1981), pp. 209–224.\n\n'The Art of Judgement', \"Mind,\" vol 96 (1987), pp. 221–244.\n\n'Kant', \"Blackwell Companion to Philosophy,\" Basil Blackwell, 2002, pp. 725–740.\n\n'Some Kantian Thoughts on Propositional Unity', \"Aristotelian Society Supplementary Volume,\" vol 75 (2001), pp. 1–16.\n\n'Transcendental Arguments and Non-naturalist Anti-realism', in (ed) R. Stern, \"Transcendental Arguments\", Oxford University Press, 1999.\n\n\"Husserl,\" Routledge (Arguments of the Philosophers Series), 1999.\n\n'Phenomenology, Solipsism and Egocentric Thought', \"Aristotelian Society Supplementary Volume\", vol 62 (1988), pp. 45–60.\n\n'Reference, Experience and Intentionality', in (ed) L. Haaparanta, \"Mind, Meaning and Mathematics,\" Springer Verlag, 2012, pp. 185–209.\n\n'Solipsism and Subjectivity', \"European Journal of Philosophy\", vol 4 (1996), pp 155–174.\n\n'The Solipsism Debates', in (ed) T. Baldwin, \"The Cambridge History of Philosophy 1870–1945,\" Cambridge University Press, 2003, pp. 544–553.\n\n'Solipsismus, Subjektivität, und öffentlich Welt' [Solipsism, Subjectivity, and the Objective World], in (eds) D. Bell and W. Vossenkuhl, \"Wissenschaft und Subjektivität [Science and Subjectivity],\" Akademie Verlag, Berlin, 1992.\n\n\"The Analytic Tradition: Meaning, Thought and Knowledge, (\"eds) D. Bell and N. Cooper, Basil Blackwell, 1990.\n\n'The Revolution of Moore and Russell. A Very British Coup?', in (ed) A. O'Hear, \"German Philosophy since Kant,\" Cambridge University Press, 1999, pp. 193–208.\n\n\"Wissenschaft und Subjektivität. Der Wiener Kreis und die Philosophie des 20. Jahrhunderts\" [Science and Subjectivity. The Vienna Circle and the Philosophy of the 20th Century], (\"eds) D. Bell and W. Vossenkuhl, Akademie, Berlin,1992.\"\n\n'The Art of Judgement', \"Mind\", vol 96 (1987), pp. 221–244.\n\n'Thoughts', \"Notre Dame Journal of Formal Logic,\" vol 28 (1987), pp. 36–50.\n\n\"Frege's Theory of Judgement\", Oxford University Press, 1979.\n\n'The Formation of Concepts and the Structure of Thoughts', \"Philosophy and Phenomenological Research\", vol 56 (1996), pp. 583–596.\n"}
{"id": "3503957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3503957", "title": "David the Invincible", "text": "David the Invincible\n\nDavid the Invincible is the name given to a Neoplatonist Armenian philosopher of the 6th century.\n\nHis works survive in medieval Armenian translation, and he was given the byname of \"invincible\" \n(Classical ; , ) in Armenian tradition. \nThis byname had earlier been given to a theologian and was transferred to the philosopher.\n\nDue to confusion with other authors called David and due to an abundant body of medieval legend, almost nothing is known with certainty about the historical David. Armenian tradition makes him a native of Taron, but this is not substantiated in contemporary sources and may be due to conflation with another person. \nHe was active in Alexandria in Byzantine Egypt, known as an expert in Aristotle's \"Physics\". \nHe supposedly received the byname \"invincible\" for his exceptional oratory and argumentative skills. David is said to have returned to his native Armenia later in life, where he was active as a teacher, but he was persecuted by the church and ultimately died in exile in Haghbat.\n\nOf the number of works attributed to him, many are pseudepigraphic or doubtful. \nThe works which can be attributed to him with certainty or at least with some plausibility are not scholarly treatises but propedeutic (introductory) handbooks for use in teaching beginners.\nThey were composed in Greek but survive only in Armenian translation.\nPhilologically, these translations are important representatives of the \"hellenizing\" tradition in Armenian literature (\"Yownaban Dproc‘\") of the 6th to 8th centuries.\nThe David Anhaght Medal, the highest-ranking medal granted by the Armenian Academy of Philosophy, is named after him.\n\"David the Invincible\" (\"Դավիթ Անհաղթ - David Anhaght\", Armenfilm) is a 1978 film by Levon Mkrtchyan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1510374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1510374", "title": "Embryo donation", "text": "Embryo donation\n\nEmbryo donation is a form of third party reproduction. It is defined as the giving—generally without compensation—of embryos remaining after one couple's in vitro fertilisation to either another person or couple for implantation or to research. Where it is given for the purpose of implantation, the donation is followed by the placement of those embryos into the recipient woman's uterus to facilitate pregnancy and childbirth in the recipient. The resulting child is considered the child of the woman who carries it and gives birth, and not the child of the donor. This is the same principle as is followed in egg donation or sperm donation. Most often, the embryos are donated after the woman for whom they were originally created has successfully carried one or more pregnancies to term.\n\nEmbryo donation can be handled on an anonymous basis (donor and recipient parties are not known to each other), or on an open basis (parties' identities are shared and the families agree to a relationship). Occasionally, a \"semi-open\" arrangement is used in which the parties know family and other information about each other, but their real names and locating information are withheld, in order to provide a layer of privacy protection.\n\nSome writers use the term \"embryo donation\" to refer strictly to anonymous embryo donation, and \"embryo adoption\" to refer to the open process. Others use the terms synonymously because regardless of whether the arrangement is open or anonymous, the donation of embryos and a clinical assisted reproduction procedure is involved, and the recipient couple is preparing to raise a child not genetically related to them. Lawyers who assist couples who are trying to acquire an embryo state the term \"embryo adoption\" is a misnomer because the transfer of an embryo is handled as property transfer. Abortion rights advocates, advocates of embryonic stem cell research, and members of the fertility industry object to referring to the transfer as an \"adoption\" because they feel it gives an embryo the same status as a child. Most doctors describe the process as \"embryo donation\".\n\nAccording to a survey by the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, 54% of fertility patients want to preserve their remaining embryos for future use. Another 21% want to donate leftover embryos for research. Donating embryos for research may be a good alternative when patients receive proper, honest and clear information about the research project, the procedures and the scientific value of the research. The remaining 7% of those surveyed are willing to donate leftover embryos to another couple.\n\nDr. Jeffrey Nelson is Director of the Huntington Reproductive Center, one of California's largest IVF clinics. He reports that \"Twenty-five per cent of patients want to donate their [spare] embryos – not as many as I'd like.\" He added, \"People tend to hold on to their embryos because they don't want to make a decision. We started buying more and more cryopreservation tanks, and we finally had to say that there's a fee for a certain number of years' storage, and beyond that the price starts to escalate.\" It costs up to $1,200 a year to store frozen embryos. As of May 2012, there were about 600,000 frozen embryos stored in laboratories and fertility clinics, costing the donor families about $72 million annually for storage fees.\n\nIn the United States, donors must, if possible, be screened for a series of infectious diseases. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) administers the rules for screening donors. If the donors are not available to be screened, the embryos must be given a label that indicates that the required screening has not been done, and the recipients must agree to accept the associated risk. The amount of screening the embryo has already undergone is largely dependent on the genetic parents' own IVF clinic and process. The embryo recipient may elect to have her own embryologist conduct further testing.\n\nor donating them for use in embryonic stem cell research. Although embryos can, theoretically, survive indefinitely in frozen storage, as a practical reality someone must eventually decide on a permanent disposition for them.\n\nA US study concluded that donating an embryo is approximately twice as cost-effective as oocyte donation in terms of cost per live birth, with a cost of $22,000 per live delivery compared to $41,000 for oocyte donation.\n\nSoon after in vitro fertilization became a common clinical practice, clinicians discovered a way to preserve embryos in frozen storage and thaw them for implantation later. This procedure can spare a woman donor from a second egg harvesting procedure.\n\nAt about the same time, clinicians reasoned that more couples could be helped toward parenthood by substituting donor sperm for men who have no viable sperm, or donor eggs for women who have no viable oocytes – or both. Thus what was called gamete and embryo donation, came into being. A careful reading of the 1983 clinical report often cited as the first instance of embryo donation reveals that the donated embryo was actually created for the recipient at the same time that four embryos were made for the donor couple's own use. The menstrual cycles of the donor and recipient women were synchronized using medications, and the transfers occurred on the same day. None of these embryos had been cryopreserved.\n\nSoon thereafter, reports were published documenting successful pregnancies and births from cryopreserved donor embryos. Again, however, these were embryos made from donor gametes specifically for the recipients.\n\nNo one knows for sure when the first true embryo adoption occurred. The term was used as early as the mid-1980s, in the legal literature. Devroey et al., Dr. Maria Bustillo in Florida, and Dr. Howard Jones in Virginia have reported embryo transfers occurring between 1986 and 1990 that clearly represented adoption of remaining embryos.\n\nPrior to this, thousands of women who were infertile had regarded adoption as the only available path to parenthood. These scientific advances set the stage to allow open and candid discussion of embryo donation and transfer as a solution to infertility. In some ways, it is similar to other donations such as blood and major organ donations. Some see the embryo as \"tissue\", others see it as a \"gift of a potential life\", while still others believe that a new human life begins at the time of fertilization. The third group sees embryo donation as little different from traditional adoption, except that the recipient woman has the experience of pregnancy and childbirth, and that no court action is required to establish legal parentage for the recipient.\n\nThe matter gained another political dimension in the United States when Congress and the Bush administration budgeted $1 million to promote embryo adoption.\n\nEmbryo donation is legally considered a property transfer and not an adoption by state laws. However, Georgia enacted a statute called the \"Option of Adoption Act\" in 2009 which provided a procedure for, but (importantly) did not require—a confirmatory court order of parentage following embryo adoption. One advantage some embryo adoption couples in Georgia have derived from this law is that they have become eligible for the federal Adoption Tax Credit.\n\nEmbryo donation can be carried out as a service of an individual infertility clinic (where donor and recipient families typically live in the local area and are both patients of the same clinic) or by any of several national organizations. The process described below is typical of an \"adoption-agency-based\" national program.\n\nGenetic parents entering an embryo adoption program are offered the benefits of selecting the adoptive parents from the agency's pool of prescreened applicants. Embryo ownership is transferred directly from the genetic parents to the adoptive parents. Genetic parents may be updated by the agency when a successful pregnancy is achieved and when a child(ren) is/are born. The genetic parents and adoptive parents may negotiate their own terms for future contact between the families.\n\nProspective adoptive parents entering a program complete an application, and may also complete a traditional adoption home study, fertility or adoption education, background and health checks and in some cases, depending on the requirements of both the home study and placement agencies, court certification of adoption eligibility. Their completed paperwork and fees are submitted to the placement agency, which reviews their file. Some agencies allow the donors to choose the recipient while others match the recipient parents with similar preferences including desired level of openness post-adoption. Genetic and prospective parents are then given the chance to approve the match. Once all parties agree, the embryo is transferred to the adoptive mother's clinic for a frozen embryo transfer.\n\nNone of the procedures involved with embryo adoption by either the genetic or adopting parents are legal requirements of embryo transfer. The process is entered into willingly by both sets of parents because of the added safeguards, knowledge and communication offered to both parties by the system.\n\nEmbryo donation to research provides a major source of stem cells for stem cell research. The hope is that stem cell research will aid in finding cures for various major diseases such as Alzheimer, cancer, SMA, and Parkinson's diseases. Some stem cell research is done by using human embryos, and one option that parents have once they are done with \"in vitro\" fertilization is to donate their unused embryos to stem cell research. One review came to the result that the proportion of IVF users who donated embryos for research varied geographically, from 7% in France to 73% in Switzerland. A study done in the United States revealed that 60% of American donors would donate the unused embryos to science.\n\nPeople who donate embryos for research often have been found in a review to report feelings of reciprocity towards science and medicine, positive views of research and high levels of trust in the medical system. They have described the decision to donate as better than the destruction of embryos, and as an opportunity to help others or to improve health and IVF technology. On the other hand, reported factors that make people refrain from embryo donation to research include a perception of risks, a lack of information concerning research projects and the medical system, as well as conceptualization of embryos in terms of personhood. The influence of sociodemographic characteristics and reproductive and gynecological history have mainly been found to be inconclusive.\n\n"}
{"id": "49986987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49986987", "title": "Erica Meier", "text": "Erica Meier\n\nErica Meier is the Executive Director of Compassion Over Killing (COK).\n\nMeier became Compassion Over Killing's Executive Director in 2005, following five years as a volunteer. She has led the animal advocacy organization through several successful campaigns, including ending the egg industry's use of \"Animal Care Certified\" claims that could mislead consumers, as well as persuading companies like Dunkin’ Donuts and Subway to offer vegan options.\n\nCOK's work is focused on the protection of farmed animals, and the organization has become best known for its investigations into the conditions facing animals on factory farms. Meier has been interviewed about this investigative work by major news outlets including CNN, ABC's Nightline, Associated Press, the Los Angeles Times, and Reuters.\n\nIn 2013, she was inducted into the Animal Rights Hall of Fame. Meier has delivered speeches at influential events including the Animal Rights National Conference, Maryland Animal Law Symposium, Forum on Industrial Animal Farming hosted by the Harvard Food Law & Policy Clinic, the National Conference to End Factory Farming, and VegFests around the country.\n\nMeier provided information used in the writing of the book \"Striking at the Roots: A Practical Guide to Animal Activism\" (2008) by Mark Hawthorne and was also interviewed in the documentary film “” (2013) by Mark Devries.\n\nErica has been vegan for more than 20 years. Prior to starting at Compassion Over Killing, she served as an animal control officer in Washington, D.C., rescuing animals and enforcing anti-cruelty laws with the Washington Humane Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "27745559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27745559", "title": "Female sperm storage", "text": "Female sperm storage\n\nFemale sperm storage is a biological process and often a type of sexual selection in which sperm cells transferred to a female during mating are temporarily retained within a specific part of the reproductive tract before the oocyte, or egg, is fertilized. The site of storage is variable among different animal taxa and ranges from structures that appear to function solely for sperm retention, such as insect spermatheca and bird sperm storage tubules (bird anatomy), to more general regions of the reproductive tract enriched with receptors to which sperm associate before fertilization, such as the caudal portion of the cow oviduct containing sperm-associating annexins. Female sperm storage is an integral stage in the reproductive process for many animals with internal fertilization. It has several documented biological functions including:\n\n\nOne important advantage female insects that store sperm gain is increased genetic diversity in their offspring. There are many ways that females can alter offspring genetics to increase their success and diversity. An example of how this can be accomplished is in female Scathophaga that preferentially fertilize eggs to survive in different environments. Since many environments require different traits for success, females are somehow able to match sperm (acquired from multiple mates) that have the best genes for whichever environment in which they will develop. Many of the different properties of the environment, including temperature and thermal properties affect the female's sperm choice. Studies have also shown that ovipositing is nonrandom and females lay eggs with varying PGM(phosphoglucomutase) genotypes in different environments in order to optimize offspring success. Females are acutely aware to their environment and manipulate the genetic diversity of their offspring in appropriate ways to ensure their success.\n\nAnother way sperm-storing females can alter the diversity of their offspring is controlling the relatedness to the males that provide them with sperm. Inbreeding depression can have a deleterious impact on populations of organisms and is due to mating of closely related individuals. To combat this effect, female insects appear to be able to sort out the sperm of relatives from the sperm of non-relatives to choose the best option to fertilize their eggs. Female crickets are able to preferentially store sperm of multiple unrelated males to that of their siblings; this results in more of the offspring having unrelated parentage. Being able to choose between sperm after coupling might be advantageous to females because choosing between mates precopulation may be more costly, or it may just be too difficult to tell males apart before mating. Females possess remarkable abilities to select sperm to store and to fertilize their eggs that will make their offspring diverse. Though it has been shown that a majority of female insect species can store sperm, specific examples that have been studied could include field crickets, dung flies and Mediterranean fruit flies. Females largely benefit from this mechanism, but males often can experience low fitness because their paternity is not secure.\n\nSperm stored often determines which male ends up fertilizing the most eggs. An example of this is seen in Red Flour Beetles, where most of the sperm is stored in the first mating. Another male can remove previously stored sperm to better chances of successful mating.\n\nAntagonistic coevolution is the relationship between males and females where sexual morphology changes over time to change with the opposite's sex traits in order to achieve the maximum reproductive success. One such development is alternative sperm storage sites, such as seminal receptacles, spermathecae, and pseudospermathecae, that are complex and extremely variable to allow for more choice in sperm selection. In some cases, sperm storage sites can produce proteases that break down various proteins in male seminal fluid resulting in female selection in sperm.\n\nLike females, males have developed responses to counter evolutionary adaptations of the opposite sex. Responses in insects can vary in both genitalia and sperm structures, along with variations in behavior. Spiny male genitalia help to anchor the male to the female during copulation and remove sperm of previous males from female storage structures. Males have also developed alternative ways to copulate. In the case of the bed bug, males traumatically inseminate females, which allows faster passage of sperm to female sperm storage sites. The sperm are received by the mesospermalege and eventually reach the spermathecae, also referred to as seminal conceptacles.\n\nAt the microscopic level, \"Drosophila\" males have differing sperm tail lengths that correspond to various sizes of female seminal receptacles. Longer male sperm tail length has shown a greater reproductive success with a larger female seminal receptacle while sperm with short tail lengths have been found to be more successful in smaller seminal receptacles.\n\nThe ability to store and separate sperm from multiple males enables females to manipulate paternity by choosing which sperm fertilize their eggs, a process known as cryptic female choice. Evidence for this ability exists in many different taxa, including birds, reptiles, gastropods, arachnids, and insects. In combining long-term sperm storage with polyandrous behavior, female members of the tortoise family \"Testudinidae\" have access to sperm from a range of genetically different males and can potentially influence a clutch’s paternity during each fertilization event, not just through her mating choices alone. As a result of clutches with greater variation in paternal genes and increased sperm competition, females can maximize both the genetic quality and number of offspring.\n\nCryptic choice allows females to preferentially choose sperm. Females are thus able to mate multiple times and allocate sperm to their eggs according to paternal phenotype, or according to other characteristics. In some cases, such as in the yellow dung fly, certain male traits will affect the fitness of eggs laid in particular environmental conditions. Females can choose sperm based on male quality as a function of its interaction with the environment. In other species, such as the fly \"Dryomyza anilis\", females preferentially choose sperm from one storage location over another. Males of this species have developed behaviors, such as abdominal tapping, to increase their number of sperm stored in the favored storage site. Evidence for this pattern of storage, cryptic choice, and male behavior also exists in the flour beetle \"Tribolium castaneum\".\n\nMuscle contraction as a means of moving spermatozoa through the reproductive system into and out of the storage structures has been examined in Diptera, Orthoptera, and Lepidoptera as well as in the species \"Rhodnius prolixus\" and the boll weevil. In \"R. prolixus\", rhythmic peristaltic contractions of the oviduct cause contractions of the bursa copulatrix and spermatheca movement. This movement of the spermatheca results in spermatozoa migration into the spermathecal duct and into the spermatheca reservoir. In the boll weevil, contractions are also used to move sperm from the spermathecae so they can fertilize the egg. It has been observed in locusts, that the nervous system initiates female reproductive muscular contractions. In some species, such as \"R. prolixus\", the contractions that move spermatozoa into sperm storage are initiated by a male secretion in the ejaculate. Male secretions, such as the glycoprotein ACP36D in \"Drosophila\", can also play a role in preparing the female reproductive system for sperm storage. It causes changes in uterine shape allowing spermatozoa access to the sperm storage organs.\n\nThe female insect nervous system affects many of the processes involved in sperm storage. The nervous system may signal for muscular contractions, fluid absorption, and hormone release, all of which aid in moving the sperm into the storage organs. When the nervous system of female fruit flies (\"Drosophila melanogaster\") was replaced with a masculinized nervous system through genetic manipulation, sperm storage was affected suggesting that the female nervous system is unique and required to store sperm properly.\n\nThe nervous system is responsible for several fertilization methods. In the migratory locust (\"Locusta migratoria\"), the presence of an egg in the genital chamber results in an increase of spermathecal contractions. As a result, sperm is released to fertilize the egg. A neural loop (from the VIIIth ganglion through the N2B nerve to N2B2, N2B3, N2B4, and N2B6b nerves) is then activated to direct the sperm to fertilize the egg via muscular contractions. In the Caribbean fruit fly (\"Anastrepha suspensa\"), both the spermathecae and their ducts are innervated by an abdominal ganglion located under the first abdominal sternite. This location suggests that the sperm receptacle can compress and influence the amount of sperm taken in or released by the female fly.\n"}
{"id": "425832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=425832", "title": "Findhorn Foundation", "text": "Findhorn Foundation\n\nThe Findhorn Foundation is a Scottish charitable trust registered in 1972, formed by the spiritual community at the Findhorn Ecovillage, one of the largest intentional communities in Britain. It has been home to thousands of residents from more than 40 countries. The Foundation runs various educational programmes for the Findhorn community; it also houses about 40 community businesses such as the Findhorn Press and an alternative medicine centre.\n\nBefore the Findhorn Foundation in 1972, there was a Findhorn Trust as more people joined Eileen Caddy, Peter Caddy and Dorothy Maclean, who had arrived at the Caravan Park at Findhorn Bay on 17 November 1962. The Findhorn Foundation and surrounding Findhorn Ecovillage community at The Park, Findhorn, a village in Moray, Scotland, and at Cluny Hill in Forres, is now home to more than 400 people. The Findhorn Foundation and the surrounding community have no formal doctrine or creed. The Foundation offers a range of workshops, programmes and events in the environment of a working ecovillage. The programmes are intended to give participants practical experience of how to apply spiritual values in daily life. Approximately 3000 residential participants from around the world take part in programmes each year.\n\nFindhorn Ecovillage has been awarded UN Habitat Best Practice designation from the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (HABITAT), and regularly holds seminars of CIFAL Findhorn, a United Nations Institute for Training and Research (UNITAR), affiliated training centre for Northern Europe.\n\nIn the late 1940s Sheena Govan emerged as an informal spiritual teacher to a small circle that included her then-husband, Peter Caddy, and Dorothy Maclean. Eileen Caddy, as she became, who had a background in the Moral Rearmament movement, joined them in the early 1950s. The group's principal focus was dedication to the 'Christ Within' and following God's guidance. In 1957 Peter and Eileen Caddy were appointed to manage the Cluny Hill Hotel near Forres, Maclean joining them as the hotel's secretary. Though now separated from Sheena Govan, whose relationship with Eileen Caddy had deteriorated, they continued with the practices she taught. In the early 1960s, Caddy, and other people who called themselves channelers, believed that they were in contact with extraterrestrials through telepathy, and prepared a landing strip for flying saucers at nearby Cluny Hill.\n\nIn late 1962, Caddy's employment with the Hotel chain owning Cluny Hill, at the time he was working in the Trossachs, was terminated. He and Eileen settled in a caravan near the village of Findhorn; in early 1963 an annexe was built so that Dorothy Maclean could live close to the Caddy family. Eileen Caddy's direct relationship with God began with an experience in Glastonbury where she recorded that she heard a voice say \"Be Still and Know that I am God\". Peter Caddy followed \"an intuitive spontaneous inner knowing\" and had many other influences from theosophy to the moral re-armament movement from which he developed methods of positive thinking and other methods he had learned in the Rosicrucian Order Crotona Fellowship. Dorothy Maclean initially followed practices from the Sufi group centred on the teachings of Inayat Khan, and from this developed her contact with the divine to focus upon communication with 'nature spirits' which she named as \"devas\". The three of them agreed that Dorothy's contacts should be made useful for the growing of food which was supplementing their income (the family at this point being entirely supported by Family Allowance). The Caddy's credited the garden's success of producing \"exceptionally large vegetables\" – on these practices. More conventional explanations have been suggested by locals from outside the community who feel that the garden's successes can be explained by the unique microclimate of Moray or the substantial amounts of horse manure donated by a local farmer.\n\nThere were many other people who were involved with varying importance and different influences in the early years, from Lena Lamont, part of Sheena Govan's circle, who lived in her caravan with her family and who shunned publicity to those whom Peter Caddy met as he traveled in British New Age circles: among them Robert Ogilvie Crombie (ROC); Sir George Trevelyan who formed the Wrekin Trust; Anthony Walter Dayrell Brooke, Liebie Pugh, and Joan Hartnell-Beavis. Through connections such as these and the distribution of Eileen Caddy's writings to a New Age mailing list in the form of a booklet titled \"God Spoke to Me\", people came to live at the Caravan Park, eventually forming the 'Findhorn Trust' and giving rise to the nascent shape of the 'Findhorn Community'.\n\nFrom 1969, following Eileen's guidance, Peter Caddy slowly devolved his day to day command. David Spangler became co-director of Education almost immediately after he arrived in 1970 which resulted in the gradual transformation into a centre of residential spiritual education with a permanent staff of over 100 and the setting up of the Findhorn Foundation in 1972. In 1973 David Spangler and Dorothy MacLean, with several other Findhorn Foundation members, left to found the Lorian Association near Seattle, United States. By 1979 Peter and Eileen's marriage had disintegrated, and he left the Foundation. Eileen Caddy remained, and in 2004 was awarded an OBE. Peter Caddy died in a car crash in Germany on 18 February 1994. Eileen Caddy died at home on 13 December 2006. Dorothy Maclean continued to give talks and workshops worldwide, visiting Findhorn regularly, and in August 2009 returned to Findhorn to live.\n\nThe Findhorn Foundation offers a wide variety of courses and conferences; education is the Foundation’s core activity. The Findhorn Foundation College was established in 2001. An ethnography of Findhorn in the 1990s noted that over 5,000 people attended its courses annually. The study examined Findhorn and its teaching of alternative spiritual practices and found it was an example of contemporary religious individualism.\n\nA theatre and concert hall known as the Universal Hall was built at the former caravan park site, known as The Park, between the years 1974 and 1984. The musical group The Waterboys, who have performed a number of concerts in the hall, named their album \"Universal Hall\" after the structure.\n\nFindhorn Ecovillage is based at The Park, where the Foundation's belief in sustainability is expressed in the built environment with 'ecological' houses, innovative use of building materials such as local stone and straw bales, and applied technology in the Living Machine sewage treatment facility and electricity-generating wind turbines. The Ecovillage is intended to be a tangible demonstration of the links between the spiritual, social, ecological and economic aspects of life, for use as a teaching resource. It is a founder member of the Global Ecovillage Network (GEN) a non-profit organisation that links together a diverse worldwide movement of autonomous ecovillages and related projects. The Ecovillage project has received Best Practice designation from the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat).\n\nSince the 1980s numerous organisations have started up in the vicinity of Findhorn which have an affiliation of some kind with the Findhorn Foundation. These include Ekopia, Moray Steiner School, the Phoenix Community Store, Trees for Life (Scotland) and The Isle of Erraid. Collectively they now form an ecovillage which aims to demonstrate a positive model of a viable, sustainable human and planetary future. As of 2005, Findhorn Ecovillage has around 450 resident members, and its residents have the lowest recorded ecological footprint of any community in the industrialised or the developed world, and also half of the UK average.\n\nThe community includes an arts centre, shop, pottery, bakery, publishing company, printing company and other charitable organisations. All aim to practice the founding principles of the community and together make up the New Findhorn Association (NFA). The NFA was formed in 1999 to provide a structure for all the people and organisations in the community. It includes people from within a 50-mile radius of The Park, at Findhorn. Each year a council and two listener-conveners are elected by the membership of the NFA, who organise monthly community meetings to decide upon community-wide issues. By 2011, the NFA consisted of \"320 members and 30 organisations\". These included for example the Findhorn Press, the Phoenix Community Stores, the Trees for Life organisation, and the various educational centres including the Findhorn Foundation itself. The phrase \"the Findhorn community\" thus has at least 3 meanings: the Findhorn Foundation; the NFA; and the people of the village of Findhorn.\n\nEach department is responsible for its own decisions. There is an 11-person \"Management Team\" which makes \"decisions which affect the organisation as a whole\". The Management team consults with the Council, which consists of approximately 40 \"committed members\" who \"meet regularly to discuss issues and participate in team-building activities\". The management team is \"responsible to the Trustees of the Foundation\". The Trustees meet 4 times per year.\n\nDecisions are made meditatively by \"attunement\", where \"each person does their best to find an inner state of mind in which goodwill is foremost and any outcome will be one which serves as the best for all.\" \"Most decisions are made unanimously or with a loyal minority.\" Failing this, decisions can be passed with a 90% majority vote; decisions that do not reach this threshold are given time \"for more information to be gathered\", and the proposals are presented again later.\n\nThe Findhorn Foundation is a member of the Conference of Non-Governmental Organizations (CONGO), attends the Sustainable Development Committee meetings and is a founding member of the following NGO groups active at the UN Headquarters in New York: The Earth Values Caucus, The Spiritual Caucus, and The NGO Committee on Spirituality, Values and Global Concerns.\n\nIn September 2006 a new sustainable development training facility, CIFAL Findhorn was launched. This is a joint initiative between The Moray Council, the Global Ecovillage Network, the Findhorn Foundation and UNITAR.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "966106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=966106", "title": "Fluidics", "text": "Fluidics\n\nFluidics, or fluidic logic, is the use of a fluid to perform analog or digital operations similar to those performed with electronics.\n\nThe physical basis of fluidics is pneumatics and hydraulics, based on the theoretical foundation of fluid dynamics. The term \"fluidics\" is normally used when devices have no moving parts, so ordinary hydraulic components such as hydraulic cylinders and spool valves are not considered or referred to as fluidic devices. \n\nA jet of fluid can be deflected by a weaker jet striking it at the side. This provides nonlinear amplification, similar to the transistor used in electronic digital logic. It is used mostly in environments where electronic digital logic would be unreliable, as in systems exposed to high levels of electromagnetic interference or ionizing radiation.\n\nNanotechnology considers fluidics as one of its instruments. In this domain, effects such as fluid-solid and fluid-fluid interface forces are often highly significant. Fluidics have also been used for military applications.\n\nIn 1957, Billy M. Horton of the Harry Diamond Laboratories (which later became a part of the Army Research Laboratory) first came up with the idea for the fluidic amplifier when he realized that he could redirect the direction of flue gases using a small bellows. He proposed a theory on stream interaction, stating that one can achieve amplification by deflecting a stream of fluid with a different stream of fluid. In 1959, Horton and his associates, Dr. R. E. Bowles and Ray Warren, constructed a family of working vortex amplifiers out of soap, linoleum, and wood. Their published result caught the attention of several major industries and created a surge of interest in applying fluidics (then called fluid amplification) to sophisticated control systems, which lasted throughout the 1960s. Horton is credited for developing the first fluid amplifier control device and launching the field of fluidics. In 1961, Horton, Warren, and Bowles were among the 27 recipients to receive the first Army Research and Development Achievement Award for developing the fluid amplifier control device.\n\nLogic gates can be built that use water instead of electricity to power the gating function. These are reliant on being positioned in one orientation to perform correctly. An OR gate is simply two pipes being merged, and a NOT gate (inverter) consists of \"A\" deflecting a supply stream to produce Ā. The AND and XOR gates are sketched in the diagram. An inverter could also be implemented with the XOR gate, as A XOR 1 = Ā.\nBubble logic is another kind of fluidic logic.\nBubble logic gates conserve the number of bits entering and exiting the device, since bubbles are neither produced nor destroyed in the logic operation, analogous to billiard-ball computer gates.\n\nIn a fluidic amplifier, a fluid supply, which may be air, water, or hydraulic fluid, enters at the bottom. Pressure applied to the control ports C or C deflects the stream, so that it exits via either port O or O. The stream entering the control ports may be much weaker than the stream being deflected, so the device has gain.\n\nGiven this basic device, flip flops and other fluidic logic elements can be constructed. Simple systems of digital logic can thus be built.\n\nFluidic amplifiers typically have bandwidths in the low kilohertz range, so systems built from them are quite slow compared to electronic devices.\n\nThe fluidic triode is an amplification device that uses a fluid to convey the signal.\n\nAlthough much studied in the laboratory they have few practical applications. Many expect them to be key elements of nanotechnology.\n\nFluidic triodes were used as the final stage in the main Public Address system at the 1964 New York World's Fair.\n\nThe Fluidic Triode was invented in 1962 by Murray O. Meetze, Jr., a high school student in Heath Springs, S.C. He also built a fluid diode, a fluid oscillator and a variety of hydraulic \"circuits,\" including one that has no electronic counterpart. As a result he was invited to the National Science Fair, held this year at the Seattle Century 21 Exposition. There his project won an award.\n\nThe MONIAC Computer built in 1949 was a fluid-based analogue computer used for teaching economic principles as it could recreate complex simulations that digital computers could not. Twelve to fourteen were built and acquired by businesses and teaching establishments.\n\nThe FLODAC Computer was built in 1964 as a proof of concept fluid digital computer.\n\nFluidic components appear in some hydraulic and pneumatic systems, including some automotive automatic transmissions. As digital logic has become more accepted in industrial control, the role of fluidics in industrial control has declined.\n\nIn the consumer market, fluidically controlled products are increasing in both popularity and presence, installed in items ranging from toy spray guns through shower heads and hot tub jets; all provide oscillating or pulsating streams of air or water.\n\nFluid logic can be used to create a valve with no moving parts such as in some anaesthetic machines.\n\nFluidic injection is being researched for use in aircraft to control direction, in two ways: circulation control and thrust vectoring. In both, larger more complex mechanical parts are replaced by fluidic systems, in which larger forces in fluids are diverted by smaller jets or flows of fluid intermittently, to change the direction of vehicles. In circulation control, near the trailing edges of wings, aircraft flight control systems such as ailerons, elevators, elevons, flaps and flaperons are replaced by slots which emit fluid flows. In thrust vectoring, in jet engine nozzles, swiveling parts are replaced by slots which inject fluid flows into jets. Such systems divert thrust via fluid effects. Tests show that air forced into a jet engine exhaust stream can deflect thrust up to 15 degrees. In such uses, fluidics is desirable for lower: mass, cost (up to 50% less), drag (up to 15% less during use), inertia (for faster, stronger control response), complexity (mechanically simpler, fewer or no moving parts or surfaces, less maintenance), and radar cross section for stealth. This will likely be used in many unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), 6th generation fighter aircraft, and ships.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2910823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2910823", "title": "Freya Mathews", "text": "Freya Mathews\n\nFreya Mathews is an Australian environmental philosopher whose main work has been in the areas of ecological metaphysics and panpsychism. Her current special interests are in ecological civilization; indigenous (Australian and Chinese) perspectives on \"sustainability\" and how these perspectives may be adapted to the context of contemporary global society; panpsychism and critique of the metaphysics of modernity; and wildlife ethics and rewilding in the context of the Anthropocene. She is the author of several books and over seventy articles on ecological philosophy and currently holds the post of Adjunct Professor of Environmental Philosophy at La Trobe University.\n\nIn addition to her research activities she manages a private biodiversity reserve in northern Victoria, Australia. She is a fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2484315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2484315", "title": "Gaslighting", "text": "Gaslighting\n\nGaslighting is a form of psychological manipulation that seeks to sow seeds of doubt in a targeted individual or in members of a targeted group, making them question their own memory, perception, and sanity. Using persistent denial, misdirection, contradiction, and lying, it attempts to destabilize the victim and delegitimize the victim's belief.\n\nInstances may range from the denial by an abuser that previous abusive incidents ever occurred up to the staging of bizarre events by the abuser with the intention of disorienting the victim. The term owes its origin to the 1938 Patrick Hamilton play \"Gaslight\" and its 1940 and 1944 film adaptations, in which a man dims the gas lights in his home and then persuades his wife that she is imagining the change. The term has been used in clinical and research literature, as well as in political commentary.\n\nThe term originates in the systematic psychological manipulation of a victim by her husband in the 1938 stage play \"Gaslight\", known as \"Angel Street\" in the United States, and the film adaptations released in 1940 and 1944. In the story, a husband attempts to convince his wife and others that she is insane by manipulating small elements of their environment and insisting that she is mistaken, remembering things incorrectly, or delusional when she points out these changes. The original title stems from the dimming of the gas lights in the house that happened when the husband was using the gas lights in the flat above while searching for the jewels belonging to a woman whom he had murdered. The wife correctly notices the dimming lights and discusses it with her husband, but he insists that she merely imagined a change in the level of illumination.\n\nThe term \"gaslighting\" has been used colloquially since the 1960s to describe efforts to manipulate someone's perception of reality. The term has been used to describe such behaviour in psychoanalytic literature since the 1970s. In a 1980 book on child sexual abuse, Florence Rush summarized George Cukor's \"Gaslight\" (1944) based on the play and wrote, \"even today the word [gaslighting] is used to describe an attempt to destroy another's perception of reality.\"\n\nSociopaths and narcissists use gaslighting tactics. Sociopaths consistently transgress social mores, break laws and exploit others, but typically also are convincing liars, sometimes charming ones, who consistently deny wrongdoing. Thus, some who have been victimized by sociopaths may doubt their own perceptions. Some physically abusive spouses may gaslight their partners by flatly denying that they have been violent. Gaslighting may occur in parent–child relationships, with either parent, child, or both lying to the other and attempting to undermine perceptions.\n\nAn abuser's ultimate goal is to make their victim second guess their every choice and question their sanity, making them more dependent on the abuser. A tactic which further degrades a target's self-esteem is for the abuser to ignore, then attend to, then ignore the victim again, so that the victim lowers their personal bar for what constitutes affection and perceives themselves as less worthy of affection.\n\nGaslighting has been observed in some cases of marital infidelity: \"Therapists may contribute to the victim's distress through mislabeling the [victim's] reactions. [...] The gaslighting behaviors of the spouse provide a recipe for the so-called 'nervous breakdown' for some [victims] [and] suicide in some of the worst situations.\"\n\nThere are two characteristics of gaslighting: The abuser wants full control of feelings, thoughts, or actions of the victim; and the abuser discreetly emotionally abuses the victim in hostile, abusive, or coercive ways.\n\nIt is necessary to understand the warning signs of gaslighting in order to fully start the healing process. Signs of gaslighting include:\n\nJay Carter explores the reasons behind gaslighting. He says that only 1% of people consciously use this technique to intentionally hurt the victim; 20% of people use gaslighting as a defense mechanism and only semi-consciously use this technique, while the rest of the abusers unintentionally use this technique once in a while.\n\nThree most common methods of gaslighting are:\n\nGaslighting has been observed between patients and staff in inpatient psychiatric facilities.\n\nIn a 1981 article, \"Some Clinical Consequences of Introjection: Gaslighting\", Calef and Weinshel argue that gaslighting involves the projection and introjection of psychic conflicts from the perpetrator to the victim: \"this imposition is based on a very special kind of 'transfer'... of potentially painful mental conflicts.\" The authors explore a variety of reasons why the victims may have \"a tendency to incorporate and assimilate what others externalize and project onto them\", and conclude that gaslighting may be \"a very complex highly structured configuration which encompasses contributions from many elements of the psychic apparatus.\" Dorpat (1994) describes this as an example of projective identification.\n\nWith respect to women in particular, Hilde Lindemann says that in such cases, the victim's ability to resist the manipulation depends on \"her ability to trust her own judgments\". Establishment of \"counterstories\" may help the victim reacquire \"ordinary levels of free agency\".\n\nIn the article \"Falsifying Reality, Spawning Evil\", author David Shasha attempted to discover how one becomes a victim of gaslighting as he dissected the 1944 film \"Gaslight\". According to the article, the gaslighters first choose a target that is vulnerable, mentally weak, easily defeated and manipulated. The victim's ability to defend themselves is usually minimal. In relationships, the manipulation and exploitation of the victim's honesty and love is the main concept in the process of gaslighting. Gaslighting and other methods of interpersonal control are often used by mental health professionals because they are effective for shaping the behavior of other individuals. Gaslighting depends on “first convincing the victim that his thinking is distorted and secondly persuading him that the victimizer's ideas are the correct and true ones.\"\n\nThe main intention of the victimizer is to target the victim's mental equilibrium, self-confidence and self-esteem. It is a dangerous form of abuse because it undermines the mental stability of the victim, who becomes depressed and withdrawn and totally dependent on the abuser for their sense of reality.\n\nMaureen Dowd was one of the first to use the term in the political context. She describes the Bill Clinton administration's use of the technique in subjecting Newt Gingrich to small indignities intended to provoke him to make public complaints that \"came across as hysterical\".\n\nIn describing the prevalence of the technique in US politics of the past few decades, Bryant Welch states in his book \"State of Confusion: Political Manipulation and the Assault on the American Mind:\"\n\nFrida Ghitis uses the term gaslighting to describe Russia's global relations. While Russian operatives were active in Crimea, Russian officials continually denied their presence and manipulated the distrust of political groups in their favor.\n\nJournalists at the \"New York Times Magazine\", BBC and \"Teen Vogue\", as well as psychologists Bryant Welch, Robert Feldman and Leah McElrath, have described some of the actions of Donald Trump during the 2016 US presidential election and his term as president as examples of gaslighting. Ben Yagoda wrote in the \"Chronicle of Higher Education\" in January 2017, that the term \"gaslighting\" had become topical again as the result of Trump's behavior, saying that Trump's \"habitual tendency to say \"X\", and then, at some later date, indignantly declare, 'I did not say \"X\". In fact, I would never dream of saying \"X\"\" had brought new notability to the term. In 2018, Amanda Carpenter published \"Gaslighting America: Why We Love It When Trump Lies to Us\" tracing how the tactic started with Nixon, gained traction with Bill Clinton, and exploded under Trump.\n\nAs mentioned above, the name of the abuse derived from the Patrick Hamilton play \"Gaslight\" and the film adaptations released in 1940 and 1944. It depicts this type of abuse as occurring to the wife of an abuser. The 1944 American film version was nominated for seven Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Actor and Best Screenplay, and won the Academy Award for Best Actress (for the lead star Ingrid Bergman) and Best Production Design.\n\nGaslighting was also main theme in a 2016 plotline in BBC's radio soap opera \"The Archers\". The story concerned the emotional abuse of Helen Archer by her partner and later husband, Rob Titchener, over the course of two years, and caused much public discussion about the phenomenon.\n\nThe 2016 American mystery film and psychological thriller \"The Girl on the Train\" explored the direct effects that gaslighting had on Rachel, the protagonist of the story. The perpetrator in the film was in fact Rachel's ex-husband Tom who was the violent abuser. Rachel suffered from severe depression and alcoholism. When Rachel would black out drunk, he consistently told her that she had done terrible things that she was incapable of remembering.\n\nThe 2010 film \"Shutter Island\" uses continuity errors to suggest insanity. For instance, while one of the patients is being questioned early on she asks for a glass of water. She is brought a full glass in one shot, in the next shot she drinks it, but there's no glass in her hand, and in the next shot she sets down an empty glass. All these shots are so short (about two seconds each) that it becomes harder to notice, heightening the unsettling feeling the audience gets for reasons they cannot really explain.\n\nGaslighting in the workplace can occur when individuals perform actions that cause colleagues to question themselves and their actions in a way that is detrimental to their careers. The victim may be deliberately excluded, made the subject of gossip, or persistently discredited or questioned in an attempt to destroy the victim's confidence. The perpetrator may re-route conversations to perceived faults or wrongs. Gaslighting can be committed by any colleague and can be especially detrimental when the perpetrator is someone in a position of power.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18734752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18734752", "title": "George Edward Hughes", "text": "George Edward Hughes\n\nGeorge Edward Hughes (8 June 1918 – 4 March 1994) was an Irish-born New Zealand philosopher and logician whose principal scholarly works were concerned with modal logic and medieval philosophy.\n\nHughes was born on 8 June 1918 in Waterford, Ireland (then in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland). His parents, who were English, moved to Scotland in the early 1920s, as a result of the Irish War of Independence. George graduated MA with First Class Honours in Philosophy and English, and then in pure Philosophy, from the University of Glasgow. He then studied for a year at the University of Cambridge, before being called back to Glasgow as an assistant lecturer. Subsequently, he held lectureships at the University College of South Wales at Cardiff, and then the University College of North Wales at Bangor. In 1951 he was appointed to the first Chair in Philosophy at the Victoria University of Wellington in New Zealand, a position from which he retired in 1984. He died in Wellington on 4 March 1994.\n\nNotable influences on Hughes' philosophical development included John Wisdom and Ludwig Wittgenstein, from whom he took classes at Cambridge; J. L. Austin, a leading exponent of ordinary language philosophy; and Arthur Prior, with whom he found much in common when they met in New Zealand.\n\nHughes was a gifted and revered teacher who played a prominent role in academic affairs at Victoria University. He is well remembered for his passion for clarity, his uncompromising intellectual honesty, and his humanity and gentleness.\n\nHis early interests were in ethics and the philosophy of religion, but he is most widely known for books on modal logic co-authored with his colleague and former student Max Cresswell. In 1968 they published \"An Introduction to Modal Logic\", the first modern textbook in the area. This book, which has been translated into German, Italian, Japanese and Spanish, was influential in introducing many generations of students and researchers to Kripke semantics, a mathematical theory of meaning that revolutionised the study of modal logics and led to applications ranging from the semantics of natural languages to reasoning about the behaviour of computer programs. Vaughan Pratt, the creator of dynamic logic, has written in reference to his own motivation that \"a weekend with Hughes and Cresswell convinced me that a most harmonious union between modal logic and programs was possible\".\n\nHughes' other special interest was in medieval philosophical logic, where his main projects were the preparation of philosophical commentaries on Latin manuscripts of John Buridan and Paul of Venice, as well as English translations of the originals.\n\nHe was also a priest in the Anglican (Episcopal) Church, having been ordained in Bangor Cathedral in 1950. At that time there was a need for clergy who could conduct services in both Welsh and English, so the then Bishop of Bangor ordained several men whom he considered suitable, but who had not had the usual theological training. Hughes had a flair for languages that enabled him to quickly learn how to pronounce the set words of the service even though he was not a Welsh speaker.\n\nHe was married with five children. His wife Beryl Hughes (1920 – 2015), an historian, taught in the History Department of Victoria University for 25 years, and was one of the founders of the Women's Studies programme there.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2515919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2515919", "title": "Gianni Vattimo", "text": "Gianni Vattimo\n\nGianteresio Vattimo (born 4 January 1936) is an Italian philosopher and politician.\n\nGianteresio Vattimo was born in Turin, Piedmont. He studied philosophy under the existentialist Luigi Pareyson at the University of Turin, and graduated with a laurea in 1959. After studying with Karl Löwith and Hans-Georg Gadamer in Heidelberg he returned to Turin where he became assistant professor in 1964, and later full professor of Aesthetics in 1969. While remaining at Turin, becoming Professor of Theoretical Philosophy in 1982, he has been a visiting professor at a number of American Universities.\n\nFor his works, he received honorary degrees from the universities of La Plata, Palermo, Madrid, Havana, San Marcos of Lima.\n\nVattimo says he was exempted from military service.\n\nAfter being active in the Partito Radicale, the short-lived \"Alleanza per Torino\", and the Democrats of the Left, Vattimo joined the Party of Italian Communists. He was elected a member of the European Parliament first in 1999 and for a second mandate in 2009.\n\nHe is openly gay and a nihilist who has embraced Nietzsche's idea of God's death.\n\nVattimo's philosophy can be characterized as postmodern with his emphasis on \"pensiero debole\" (weak thought). This requires that the foundational certainties of modernity with its emphasis on objective truth founded in a rational unitary subject be relinquished for a more multi-faceted conception closer to that of the arts. He draws on the philosophy of Martin Heidegger with his critique of foundations and the hermeneutic philosophy of his teacher Hans-Georg Gadamer. Perhaps his greatest influence though is the thought of Friedrich Nietzsche, whose \"discovery of the 'lie', the discovery that alleged 'values' and metaphysical structures are just a play of forces\" (1993:93), plays an important role in Vattimo's notion of \"weak thought.\"\n\nVattimo rejects any notion of a transcendental structure of reason or reality that would be given once and for all. This does not imply the loss of truth, but a Heideggerean reinterpretation of truth as the opening of horizons. Such truth is deeper than propositions which are made possible by such openings. Philosophies then are always responses to contingent questions, they are 'ontologies of actuality,' a thesis that can be confirmed by the historico-cultural links of particular philosophies. For hermeneutics to be consistent with its own rejection of metaphysics, it must present itself, argues Vattimo \"as the most persuasive philosophical interpretation of a situation or 'epoch'\" (1997:10). To do this, Vattimo proposes a reading of hermeneutics as having a \"nihilistic\" vocation.\n\nTo Vattimo, hermeneutics has become boring and vague, lacking any clear significance for philosophical problems. His answer is to insist on the nihilistic consequences of hermeneutics. The claim that \"there are no facts only interpretations and this too is an interpretation\" amounts to saying that hermeneutics cannot be seen as the most accurate/true description of the permanent structures of reality of human existence. Hermeneutics is not a metaphysical theory in this sense and so can only be \"proved\" by being presented as the response to a history of being, a history of the fabling of the world, of the weakening of structures, that is as the occurrence of nihilism.\n\nThis nihilistic reading of history involves a certain attitude towards modernity, whereby modernity is dissolved from within through a twisting, distorting radicalisation of its premises. Vattimo uses Heidegger's term \"Verwindung\" to capture this post-modern recovery from modernity.\n\nHistory as a process of weakening (secularisation and disenchantment are other terms Vattimo uses) \"assumes the form of a decision for non-violence\" (1992:95). An ethics of communication along the lines suggested by Jürgen Habermas suffers, according to Vattimo, from finding itself in a substantially ahistorical position, while oscillating between formalism and cultural relativism (1992:117). For Vattimo it is only when hermeneutics accepts its nihilistic destiny that \"it can find in 'negativity,' in dissolution as the 'destiny of Being' ... the orientating principle that enables it to realize its own original inclination for ethics whilst neither restoring metaphysics nor surrendering to the futility of a relativistic philosophy of culture\" (1992:119).\n\nIn 2004, after leaving the party of the Democrats of the Left, he endorsed Marxism, reassessing positively its projectual principles and wishing for a \"return\" to the thought of the Trier philosopher and to a communism, rid of distorted soviet developments, which have to be dialectically overcome. Vattimo asserts the continuity of his new choices with the \"weak thought,\" thus having changed \"many of his ideas.\" He namely refers to a \"weakened Marx,\" as ideological basis capable of showing the real nature of communism. The new Marxist approach, therefore, emerges as a practical development of the \"weak thought\" into the frame of a political perspective. His next political book, co-authored with Santiago Zabala, is \"Hermeneutic Communism: From Heidegger to Marx\" (2011).\n\nThe authors explain the book Hermeneutic Communism as follows: \"Although the material published here has never been released before, there are two books that have determined the production of this text: Gianni's \"Ecce Comu: Come si diventa cio che si era\" (2007) and Santiago's \"The Remains of Being: Hermeneutic Ontology After Metaphysics\" (2009). In the former, Vattimo emphasized the political necessity of reevaluating communism; in the latter, Zabala insisted on the progressive nature of hermeneutics. \"Hermeneutic Communism\" can be considered a radical development of both.\"\n\nVattimo added his name to a petition released on February 28, 2009, calling on the European Union to remove Hamas from its list of terrorist organizations and grant it full recognition as a legitimate voice of the Palestinian people.\n\nOn July 22, 2014, in response to the IDF military operation in Gaza against Hamas attacks on Israel, Vattimo said he would personally like to \"shoot those bastard Zionists\" and thinks Europeans should raise money \"to buy Hamas some more rockets.\" He expressed his willingness to go to Gaza and fight side by side with Hamas and asserted, when asked if he would shoot at Israelis, that: 'By nature I'm non-violent, but I'd shoot at those (of them) who bomb hospitals, private clinics and children.' Vattimo added that for him these were 'pure Nazis', the state itself a Nazi state ((uno stato nazista)) perhaps somewhat worse even than Hitler because in Israel's case, they have the support of the great Western democracies.\n\nVattimo has been accused of anti-semitism. Renzo Gattegna, the president of the Union of Italian Jewish Communities accused him of antisemitism, writing \"words of hatred that don't add anything new and are accompanied by the squalid reproposal of anti-Semitic stereotypes\". Rabbi Barbara Aiello, Italy's first female rabbi, accused Vattimo of antisemitism. Reacting to his statements and to others like it, the foreign ministers for Italy, France and Germany said that they condemn anti-Semitic slurs as well as violence that has occurred at pro-Palestinian demonstrations in Europe. Pronounced in a moment of indignation against the prolonged bombing of Gaza by the Israeli army, Vattimo apologized to an Israeli newspaper (\"Haaretz\"). \"In a telephone interview [...], Gianni Vattimo said he “regrets” such words and “feels ashamed” by them\", claiming he was \"provoked\" by the hosts of the show on which he made his comments.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13890972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13890972", "title": "HPO formalism", "text": "HPO formalism\n\nThe History Projection Operator (HPO) formalism is an approach to temporal quantum logic developed by Chris Isham. It deals with the logical structure of quantum mechanical propositions asserted at different points in time.\n\nIn standard quantum mechanics a physical system is associated with a Hilbert space formula_1. States of the system at a fixed time are represented by normalised vectors in the space and physical observables are represented by Hermitian operators on formula_1.\n\nA physical proposition formula_3 about the system at a fixed time can be represented by a projection operator formula_4 on formula_1 (See quantum logic). This representation links together the lattice operations in the lattice of logical propositions and the lattice of projection operators on a Hilbert space (See quantum logic).\n\nThe HPO formalism is a natural extension of these ideas to propositions about the system that are concerned with more than one time.\n\nA \"homogeneous history proposition\" formula_6 is a sequence of single-time propositions formula_7 specified at different times formula_8. These times are called the \"temporal support\" of the history. We shall denote the proposition formula_9 as formula_10 and read it as\n\n\"formula_11 at time formula_12 is true and then formula_13 at time formula_14 is true and then formula_15 and then formula_16 at time formula_17 is true\"\n\nNot all history propositions can be represented by a sequence of single-time propositions are different times. These are called \"inhomogeneous history propositions\". An example is the proposition formula_9 OR formula_19 for two homogeneous histories formula_20.\n\nThe key observation of the HPO formalism is to represent history propositions by projection operators on a \"history Hilbert space\". This is where the name \"History Projection Operator\" (HPO) comes from.\n\nFor a homogeneous history formula_21 we can use the tensor product to define a projector\n\nformula_22\n\nwhere formula_23 is the projection operator on formula_1 that represents the proposition formula_7 at time formula_26.\n\nThis formula_27 is a projection operator on the tensor product \"history Hilbert space\" formula_28\n\nNot all projection operators on formula_29 can be written as the sum of tensor products of the form formula_27. These other projection operators are used to represent inhomogeneous histories by applying lattice operations to homogeneous histories.\n\nRepresenting history propositions by projectors on the history Hilbert space naturally encodes the logical structure of history propositions. The lattice operations on the set of projection operations on the history Hilbert space formula_29 can be applied to model the lattice of logical operations on history propositions.\n\nIf two homogeneous histories formula_6 and formula_19 don't share the same temporal support they can be modified so that they do. If formula_34 is in the temporal support of formula_9 but not formula_19 (for example) then a new homogeneous history proposition which differs from formula_19 by including the \"always true\" proposition at each time formula_34 can be formed. In this way the temporal supports of formula_20 can always be joined together. What shall therefore assume that all homogeneous histories share the same temporal support.\n\nWe now present the logical operations for homogeneous history propositions formula_6 and formula_19 such that formula_42\n\nIf formula_43 and formula_44 are two homogeneous histories then the history proposition \"formula_9 and formula_19\" is also a homogeneous history. It is represented by the projection operator\n\nformula_47 formula_48\n\nIf formula_43 and formula_44 are two homogeneous histories then the history proposition \"formula_9 or formula_19\" is in general not a homogeneous history. It is represented by the projection operator\n\nformula_53\n\nThe negation operation in the lattice of projection operators takes formula_54 to\n\nformula_55\n\nwhere formula_56 is the identity operator on the Hilbert space. Thus the projector used to represent the proposition formula_57 (i.e. \"not formula_43\") is\n\nformula_59\n\nwhere formula_56 is the identity operator on the history Hilbert space.\n\nAs an example, consider the negation of the two-time homogeneous history proposition formula_61. The projector to represent the proposition formula_57 is\n\nformula_63\nformula_64\n\nThe terms which appear in this expression:\n\n\ncan each be interpreted as follows:\n\nThese three homogeneous histories, joined together with the OR operation, include all the possibilities for how the proposition \"formula_74 and then formula_75\" can be false. We therefore see that the definition of formula_76 agrees with what the proposition formula_57 should mean.\n\n"}
{"id": "17054475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17054475", "title": "Hans Kamp", "text": "Hans Kamp\n\nJohan Anthony Willem \"Hans\" Kamp (born 1940) is a Dutch philosopher and linguist, responsible for introducing Discourse Representation Theory (DRT) in 1981.\n\nKamp received a Ph.D. in Philosophy from UCLA in 1968, and has taught at Cornell University, University of London, University of Texas, Austin, and University of Stuttgart. His dissertation, \"Tense Logic and the Theory of Linear Order\" (1968) was devoted to functional completeness in tense logic, the main result being that all temporal operators are definable in terms of \"since\" and \"until\" - provided that the underlying temporal structure is a continuous linear ordering. Kamp's 1971 paper on \"now\" (Theoria) was the first employment of double-indexing in model theoretic semantics. His doctoral committee included Richard Montague as chairman, Chen Chung Chang, Alonzo Church, David Kaplan, Yiannis N. Moschovakis, and Jordan Howard Sobel.\n\nKamp became a corresponding member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1997. Kamp was awarded the Jean Nicod Prize in 1996 and was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4081158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4081158", "title": "Hasan Askari (writer)", "text": "Hasan Askari (writer)\n\nMuhammad Hasan Askari ()\n(1919 – 18 January 1978) was a Pakistani scholar, literary critic, writer and linguist of modern Urdu language. Initially \"Westernized\", he translated western literary, philosophical and metaphysical work into Urdu, notably classics of American, English, French and Russian literature. But in his later years, through personal experiences, geopolitical changes and the influence of authors like René Guénon, and traditional scholars of India towards more latter part of his life, like Maulana Ashraf Ali Thanwi, he became a notable critic of the West and proponent of Islamic culture and ideology.\n\nMuhammad Hasan Askari was born on 5 November 1919 in a village in Bulandshahr, in western Uttar Pradesh, British India, to a \"traditional, middle-class\" Muslim family, in a cultured milieu where youngsters used to read the Qur'an as well as classics of Persian literature like Hafez and Saadi. His grandfather, Maulvi Husamuddin, was a scholar, while his father, Muhammad Moinul Haq, worked as an accountant in the nearby Shikarpur. He was the eldest of six children. \n\nHe joined Allahabad University as an undergraduate in 1938 and earned a Master of Arts degree in English literature in 1942. After completing his education, he joined All India Radio, Delhi. For a brief period around 1944-1946, he also taught English literature at Meerut College. For years, he struggled to find a permanent job in Delhi, and as per his brother that might have pushed him to move to the newly forme state of Pakistan but the decisive factor was the civil strife and riots which followed the Partition, and in October of 1947, he reached Lahore all alone, asking his mother and siblings to also abandon Meerut. That's where he acquired a more cultural approach of Urdu literature, which would represent the Islamic identity of his new country, whereas his \"idea of Pakistan was influenced by a European/French model of democracy, where social and economic justice would go hand in hand with the nurturing of cultural traditions in which the individuals, especially those of the intelligentsia such as poets and writers, could be loyal to the state and society, yet free of governmental pressure and perform the duties of informed, perceptive critics and citizens.\" \n\nIn February 1950, he moved to Karachi to work as editor for a government journal, and even if it didn't last more than few months, he didn't return to Lahore considering he got a job as English teacher in the Islamia College. With friends as colleagues like Karrar Hussain, he'll remain there until his death in January 1978. \n\nHe passed away on January 18, 1978, due to a \"massive heart attack\", at the age of 57, and was buried in the Darul Ulum cemetery of Karachi, next to Mufti Muhammad Shafi, whose Qur'anic commentary, Ma'ariful Qu'ran, he was translating into English during his last days, the funeral prayer being led by the latter's son, Mufti Muhammad Taqi Usmani. \n\nAfter his death, his personal library was donated to the Bedil Library, located in Sharfabad, Karachi.\n\nAskari began his literary life as a short story writer in the mould of Anton Chekov, and as an essayist influenced by the ideas of the Progressive Writers' Movement, a Marxist movement conceptualized by Sajjad Zaheer aiming to transform society through literature. His early \"Westernization\" is noticeable by the fact that, contrarily to the contemporary Urdu writers, his favourite authors were not Maulvi Nazir Ahmad or Premchand, but foreign authors like Flaubert, Chekhov, Émile Zola, James Joyce, Rimbaud and \"especially Baudelaire\". In that regard, he wrote \"obscene\" short-stories, involving Anglo-Indians and homoeroticism. \n\nHe would go on to write literature in that mood for years, but the Partition of India would bring issues like religion and identity, which would push him to adopt a more cultural approach to literature, and more specifically, an Islamic vision. While more or less a-political, he'd specifically turn anti-Western and even more so anti-American. \n\nThe best way to visualize this radical change is by reading a serie of essays, \"Jhalkiyan\", put together by Suhayl Umar and Naghma Umar, chronologically : in the Pre-Partition period, he treats mainly of literature and art, with figures such as Ezra Pound, Andre Gide, Akbar Allahabadi, Firaq Gorakhpuri, Chaucer, Shakespeare, Voltaire, D.H. Lawrence, Michelangelo, Rodin or Jacob Epstein. He also wrote on the literary movement known as the New Apocalyptics. After Partition, his essays become more ideological, and centred around the idea of Urdu as the Islamic cultural cement of the newly founded state of Pakistan. During this period, he also rejets Progressives' ideas about literature, that he embraced years ago. The 1200-odd pages collection of essays also show that during his last years he became disillusioned with Pakistan, thinking it didn't led to the cultural renaissance centred around Urdu he expected, even if he kept his strong opinions about religion, philosophy and politics. As some sort of conclusion to the lack of some Islamic national literature, he declared \"the death of Urdu literature\" in 1953-1955.\nWith the philosophy of Heidegger and the poetry of Holderlin as well as Mallarmé, but more specifically influenced by the idea of wahdat al wujud (unicity of Existence) found among Islamic philosophers, Askari sought a poetry which would be unveil the \"being\" of the individual, and was thus critical of the overtly romantic and emotional outbursts of many of his contemporaries and of classics. He blamed the absorption of Western philosophy and thinking by Indian Muslims for downgrading poetry to sentimentalism, and wanted to go back to the Islamic sources and Sufi aesthetics, congratulating the works of the Deobandi scholar Maulana Ashraf Ali Thanwi on the Qur'an and Rumi as representative of this brand of poetics. \n\nHis aesthetics were thus another emanation of his ideology and politics.\n\nPolitically, he has been described as proposing some sort of Islamic socialism, a \"self-sufficient Pakistan where Muslims would lead a life enriched with principles of democracy\", and was in favour of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and naturally a harsh critic of Zia-ul-Haq.\n\nHe had a direct influence on novelists like Intizar Hussain and poets like Nasir Kazmi.\n\nAnother literary figure under influence was Saleem Ahmed, whose \"house in Karachi was the city`s biggest literary hub\" in the 1970s and the early 1980s, as per literary critic Rauf Parekh, who also summarizes Askari's legacy by saying that he \"is rightly credited with giving a new literary theory to Urdu criticism and establishing a new school of thought.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23695303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23695303", "title": "Havredal Zendo", "text": "Havredal Zendo\n\nHavredal Zendo - Cho-An is a Buddhist temple, formerly in the Rinzai Zen tradition, founded by Choan Egmund T. Sommer (Denko Møller / John Mortensen). Cho-An is the first Zen temple building to be established in Denmark.\n\nEgmund Sommer first became interested in Zen Buddhism in the late sixties in Denmark. He went to Ryutaku-ji in Japan, where he met Soen Nakagawa. Later he became a student of Soen's successor, Eido Shimano. Egmund was ordained as a Rinzai Zen Buddhist priest on July 4, 1980 and received Dharma transmission from Eido in 2002.\n\nEgmund later broke with Eido Shimano and became an independent teacher.\n\nEgmund is a member of the American Zen Teachers Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "37018946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37018946", "title": "Hent de Vries", "text": "Hent de Vries\n\nHendrik \"Hent\" de Vries (born 24 February 1958, is a Dutch philosopher, Professor of the Humanities and Philosophy at the Johns Hopkins University, and Professor of Philosophy at the University of Amsterdam. De Vries has been instrumental in explaining the apophatic and other theological claims and dimensions of deconstruction and for demonstrating its import for an understanding of religion in contemporary philosophy and culture.\n\n"}
{"id": "35167582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35167582", "title": "Heo Jeok", "text": "Heo Jeok\n\nHeo Jeok (1610 – May 11, 1680) was a politician during the Joseon Dynasty. He was the 124th and 125th Prime Minister of Korea (Yeonguijeong), in 1664, 1671, and 1674–1680. His pen name was Mukjae, Hyuong.\n\nHe was the leader of the Southerners faction, and a rival of Song Siyeol.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57349303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57349303", "title": "Hierarchy of the sciences", "text": "Hierarchy of the sciences\n\nThe hierarchy of the sciences is a theory formulated by Auguste Comte in the 19th century. This theory states that science develops over time beginning with the simplest and most general scientific discipline, astronomy, which is the first to reach the \"positive stage\" (one of three in Comte's law of three stages). As one moves down the \"hierarchy\", this theory further states that sciences become more complex and less general, and that they will reach the positive stage later. Disciplines further down the hierarchy are said to depend more on the developments of their predecessors; the highest discipline on the hierarchy is the social sciences. According to this theory, there are higher levels of consensus and faster rates of advancement in physics and other natural sciences than there are in the social sciences.\n\nResearch has shown that, after controlling for the number of hypotheses being tested, positive results are 2.3 times more likely in the social sciences than in the physical sciences. It has also been found that the degree of scientific consensus is highest in the physical sciences, lowest in the social sciences, and intermediate in the biological sciences. Dean Simonton argues that a composite measure of the scientific status of disciplines ranks psychology much closer to biology than to sociology.\n"}
{"id": "34492381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34492381", "title": "Hong Uwon", "text": "Hong Uwon\n\nHong Uwon (Korean:홍우원, hanja:洪宇遠, July 29, 1605 - July 27, 1687) was one of the Neo-Confucian scholars, politicians and writers of the Korean Joseon Dynasty. His nickname was Nampa(남파, 南坡), a courtesy name was Gunjing(군징, 君徵).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45653358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45653358", "title": "Ike Odimegwu", "text": "Ike Odimegwu\n\nIke Ferdinand Odimegwu is a Nigerian professor of philosophy and political philosopher.\n\nHe was born at Obiaruku, a city in Delta State, southern Nigeria.\nHe was a student under the tutelage of Theophilus Okere, a renowned Nigerian philosopher at Owerri, the capital of Imo State, Nigeria.\nHe later obtained a Master of Arts degree from the University of Nigeria.\n\nHe began his academic career at Federal College of Education, Umunze, Nigeria, before in 1999 joining the services of Nnamdi Azikiwe University, where he later served as Head of Philosophy Department and Chairman of the Faculty of Arts Welfare Committee.\nHe also served as Chairman of the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Nnamdi Azikiwe University Chapter. \nHe is the incumbent Coordinator of ASUU, Owerri zone.\n\nHe is a member of several academic associations, including:\n\nHe has authored and co-authored several books and journals:\n"}
{"id": "15047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15047", "title": "Internalism and externalism", "text": "Internalism and externalism\n\nInternalism and externalism are two opposing ways of explaining various subjects in several areas of philosophy. These include human motivation, knowledge, justification, meaning, and truth. The distinction arises in many areas of debate with similar but distinct meanings.\n\nInternalism is the thesis that no fact about the world can provide reasons for action independently of desires and beliefs. Externalism is the thesis that reasons are to be identified with objective features of the world.\n\nIn contemporary moral philosophy, motivational internalism (or moral internalism) is the view that moral convictions (which are not necessarily beliefs, e.g. feelings of moral approval or disapproval) are intrinsically motivating. That is, the motivational internalist believes that there is an internal, necessary connection between one's conviction that X ought to be done and one's motivation to do X. Conversely, the motivational externalist (or moral externalist) claims that there is no necessary internal connection between moral convictions and moral motives. That is, there is no necessary connection between the conviction that X is wrong and the motivational drive not to do X. (The use of these terms has roots in W.D. Falk's (1947) paper \"'Ought' and Motivation\").\n\nThese views in moral psychology have various implications. In particular, if motivational internalism is true, then an amoralist is unintelligible (and metaphysically impossible). An amoralist is not simply someone who is immoral, rather it is someone who knows what the moral things to do are, yet is not motivated to do them. Such an agent is unintelligible to the motivational internalist, because moral judgments about the right thing to do have built into them corresponding motivations to do those things that are judged by the agent to be the moral things to do. On the other hand, an amoralist is entirely intelligible to the motivational \"externalist\", because the motivational externalist thinks that moral judgments about the right thing to do not necessitate some motivation to do those things that are judged to be the right thing to do; rather, an independent desire—such as the desire to do the right thing—is required (Brink, 2003), (Rosati, 2006).\n\nThere is also a distinction in ethics and action theory, largely made popular by Bernard Williams (1979, reprinted in 1981), concerning internal and external reasons for action. An \"internal reason\" is, roughly, something that one has in light of one's own \"subjective motivational set\"---one's own commitments, desires (or wants), goals, etc. On the other hand, an \"external reason\" is something that one has independent of one's subjective motivational set. For example, suppose that Sally is going to drink a glass of poison, because she wants to commit suicide and believes that she can do so by drinking the poison. Sally has an internal reason to drink the poison, because she wants to commit suicide. However, one might say that she has an external reason not to drink the poison because, even though she wants to die, one ought not kill oneself no matter what—regardless of whether one wants to die.\n\nSome philosophers embrace the existence of both kinds of reason, while others deny the existence of one or the other. For example, Bernard Williams (1981) argues that there are really only internal reasons for action. Such a view is called \"internalism about reasons\" (or \"reasons internalism\"). \"Externalism about reasons\" (or \"reasons externalism\") is the denial of reasons internalism. It is the view that there are external reasons for action; that is, there are reasons for action that one can have even if the action is not part of one's subjective motivational set.\n\nConsider the following situation. Suppose that it's against the moral law to steal from the poor, and Sasha knows this. However, Sasha doesn't desire to follow the moral law, and there is currently a poor person next to him. Is it intelligible to say that Sasha has a reason to follow the moral law right now (to not steal from the poor person next to him), even though he doesn't care to do so? The reasons externalist answers in the affirmative (\"Yes, Sasha has a reason not to steal from that poor person.\"), since he believes that one can have reasons for action even if one does not have the relevant desire. Conversely, the reasons internalist answers the question in the negative (\"No, Sasha does not have a reason not to steal from that poor person, though others might.\"). The reasons internalist claims that external reasons are unintelligible; one has a reason for action only if one has the relevant desire (that is, only internal reasons can be reasons for action). The reasons internalist claims the following: the moral facts are a reason \"for Sasha's action\" not to steal from the poor person next to him only if he currently \"wants\" to follow the moral law (or if not stealing from the poor person is a way to satisfy his other current goals—that is, part of what Williams calls his \"subjective motivational set\"). In short, the reasoning behind reasons internalism, according to Williams, is that reasons for action must be able to explain one's action; and only internal reasons can do this.\n\nGenerally speaking, internalist conceptions of epistemic justification require that one’s justification for a belief be internal to the believer in some way. Two main varieties of epistemic internalism about justification are access internalism and ontological internalism. Access internalists require that a believer must have internal access to the justifier(s) of her belief \"p\" in order to be justified in believing \"p\". For the access internalist, justification amounts to something like the believer being aware (or capable of being aware) of certain facts that make her belief in \"p\" rational, or her being able to give reasons for her belief in \"p\". At minimum, access internalism requires that the believer have some kind of reflective access or awareness to whatever justifies her belief. Ontological internalism is the view that justification for a belief is established by one’s mental states. Ontological internalism can be distinct from access internalism, but the two are often thought to go together since we are generally considered to be capable of having reflective access to mental states.\n\nOne popular argument for internalism is known as the 'new evil demon problem'. The new evil demon problem indirectly supports internalism by challenging externalist views of justification, particularly reliabilism. The argument asks us to imagine a subject with beliefs and experiences identical to ours, but the subject is being systematically deceived by a malicious Cartesian demon so that all their beliefs turn out false. In spite of the subject's unfortunate deception, the argument goes, we do not think this subject ceases to be rational in taking things to be as they appear as we do. After all, it is possible that we could be radically deceived in the same way, yet we are still justified in holding most of our beliefs in spite of this possibility. Since reliabilism maintains that one's beliefs are justified via reliable belief-forming processes (where reliable means yielding true beliefs), the subject in the evil demon scenario would not likely have any justified beliefs according to reliabilism because all of their beliefs would be false. Since this result is supposed to clash with our intuitions that the subject is justified in their beliefs in spite of being systematically deceived, some take the new evil demon problem as a reason for rejecting externalist views of justification.\n\nExternalist views of justification emerged in epistemology during the late 20th century. Externalist conceptions of justification assert that facts external to the believer can serve as the justification for a belief. According to the externalist, a believer need not have any internal access or cognitive grasp of any reasons or facts which make her belief justified. The externalist’s assessment of justification can be contrasted with access internalism, which demands that the believer have internal reflective access to reasons or facts which corroborate their belief in order to be justified in holding it. Externalism, on the other hand, maintains that the justification for someone’s belief can come from facts that are entirely external to the agent’s subjective awareness.\n\nAlvin Goldman, one of the most well-known proponents of externalism in epistemology, is known for developing a popular form of externalism called reliabilism. In his paper, “What is Justified Belief?” Goldman characterizes the reliabilist conception of justification as such:\n\n\"If S’s believing \"p\" at \"t\" results from a reliable cognitive belief-forming process (or set of processes), then S’s belief in \"p\" at \"t\" is justified.”\n\nGoldman notes that a reliable belief-forming process is one which generally produces true beliefs.\n\nA unique consequence of reliabilism (and other forms of externalism) is that one can have a justified belief without knowing one is justified (this is not possible under most forms of epistemic internalism). In addition, we do not yet know which cognitive processes are in fact reliable, so anyone who embraces reliabilism must concede that we do not always know whether some of our beliefs are justified (even though there is a fact of the matter).\n\nIn responding to skepticism, Hilary Putnam (1982) claims that semantic externalism yields \"an argument we can give that shows we are not brains in a vat (BIV). (See also DeRose, 1999.) If semantic externalism is true, then the meaning of a word or sentence is not wholly determined by what individuals think those words mean. For example, semantic externalists maintain that the word \"water\" referred to the substance whose chemical composition is HO even before scientists had discovered that chemical composition. The fact that the substance out in the world we were calling \"water\" actually had that composition at least partially determined the meaning of the word. One way to use this in a response to skepticism is to apply the same strategy to the terms used in a skeptical argument in the following way (DeRose, 1999):\n\nTo clarify how this argument is supposed to work: Imagine that there is brain in a vat, and a whole world is being simulated for it. Call the individual who is being deceived \"Steve.\" When Steve is given an experience of walking through a park, semantic externalism allows for his thought, \"I am walking through a park\" to be true so long as the simulated reality is one in which he is walking through a park. Similarly, what it takes for his thought, \"I am a brain in a vat,\" to be true is for the simulated reality to be one where he is a brain in a vat. But in the simulated reality, he is not a brain in a vat.\n\nApart from disputes over the success of the argument or the plausibility of the specific type of semantic externalism required for it to work, there is question as to what is gained by defeating the skeptical worry with this strategy. Skeptics can give new skeptical cases that wouldn't be subject to the same response (e.g., one where the person was very recently turned into a brain in a vat, so that their words \"brain\" and \"vat\" still pick out real brains and vats, rather than simulated ones). Further, if even brains in vats can correctly believe \"I am not a brain in a vat,\" then the skeptic can still press us on how we know we are not in that situation (though the externalist will point out that it may be difficult for the skeptic to describe that situation).\n\nAnother attempt to use externalism to refute skepticism is done by Brueckner and Warfield. It involves the claim that our thoughts are \"about\" things, unlike a BIV's thoughts, which cannot be \"about\" things (DeRose, 1999).\n\nSemantic externalism comes in two varieties, depending on whether meaning is construed cognitively or linguistically. On a cognitive construal, externalism is the thesis that what concepts (or contents) are available to a thinker is determined by their environment, or their relation to their environment. On a linguistic construal, externalism is the thesis that the meaning of a word is environmentally determined. Likewise, one can construe semantic internalism in two ways, as a denial of either of these two theses.\n\nExternalism and internalism in semantics is closely tied to the distinction in philosophy of mind concerning mental content, since the contents of one's thoughts (specifically, intentional mental states) are usually taken to be semantic objects that are truth-evaluable.\n\nSee also:\n\nWithin the context of the philosophy of mind, externalism is the theory that the contents of at least some of one's mental states are dependent in part on their relationship to the external world or one's environment.\n\nThe traditional discussion on externalism was centered around the semantic aspect of mental content. This is by no means the only meaning of externalism now. Externalism is now a broad collection of philosophical views considering all aspects of mental content and activity. There are various forms of externalism that consider either the content or the vehicles of the mind or both. Furthermore, externalism could be limited to cognition, or it could address broader issues of consciousness.\n\nAs to the traditional discussion on semantic externalism (often dubbed \"content externalism\"), some mental states, such as believing that water is wet, and fearing that the Queen has been insulted, have contents we can capture using 'that' clauses. The content externalist often appeal to observations found as early as Hilary Putnam's seminal essay, \"The Meaning of 'Meaning',\" (1975). Putnam stated that we can easily imagine pairs of individuals that are microphysical duplicates embedded in different surroundings who use the same words but mean different things when using them.\n\nFor example, suppose that Ike and Tina's mothers are identical twins and that Ike and Tina are raised in isolation from one another in indistinguishable environments. When Ike says, \"I want my mommy,\" he expresses a want satisfied only if he is brought to his mommy. If we brought Tina's mommy, Ike might not notice the difference, but he doesn't get what he wants. It seems that what he wants and what he says when he says, \"I want my mommy,\" will be different from what Tina wants and what she says she wants when she says, \"I want my mommy.\"\n\nExternalists say that if we assume competent speakers know what they think, and say what they think, the difference in what these two speakers mean corresponds to a difference in the thoughts of the two speakers that is not (necessarily) reflected by a difference in the internal make up of the speakers or thinkers. They urge us to move from externalism about meaning of the sort Putnam defended to externalism about contentful states of mind. The example pertains to singular terms, but has been extended to cover kind terms as well such as natural kinds (e.g., 'water') and for kinds of artifacts (e.g., 'espresso maker'). There is no general agreement amongst content externalists as to the scope of the thesis.\n\nPhilosophers now tend to distinguish between \"wide content\" (externalist mental content) and \"narrow content\" (anti-externalist mental content). Some, then, align themselves as endorsing one view of content exclusively, or both. For example, Jerry Fodor (1980) argues for narrow content (although he comes to reject that view in his 1995), while David Chalmers (2002) argues for a two dimensional semantics according to which the contents of mental states can have both wide and narrow content.\n\nCritics of the view have questioned the original thought experiments saying that the lessons that Putnam and later writers such as Tyler Burge (1979, 1982) have urged us to draw can be resisted. Frank Jackson and John Searle, for example, have defended internalist accounts of thought content according to which the contents of our thoughts are fixed by descriptions that pick out the individuals and kinds that our thoughts intuitively pertain to the sorts of things that we take them to. In the Ike/Tina example, one might agree that Ike's thoughts pertain to Ike's mother and that Tina's thoughts pertain to Tina's but insist that this is because Ike thinks of that woman as his mother and we can capture this by saying that he thinks of her as 'the mother of the speaker'. This descriptive phrase will pick out one unique woman. Externalists claim this is implausible, as we would have to ascribe to Ike knowledge he wouldn't need to successfully think about or refer to his mother.\n\nCritics have also claimed that content externalists are committed to epistemological absurdities. Suppose that a speaker can have the concept of water we do only if the speaker lives in a world that contains HO. It seems this speaker could know a priori that she thinks that water is wet. This is the thesis of privileged access. It also seems that she could know on the basis of simple thought experiments that she can only think that water is wet if she lives in a world that contains water. What would prevent her from putting these together and coming to know a priori that the world contains water? If we should say that no one could possibly know whether water exists a priori, it seems either we cannot know content externalism to be true on the basis of thought experiments or we cannot know what we are thinking without first looking into the world to see what it is like.\n\nAs mentioned, content externalism (limited to the semantic aspects) is only one among many other options offered by externalism by and large.\n\nSee also:\n\nInternalism in the historiography of science claims that science is completely distinct from social influences and pure natural science can exist in any society and at any time given the intellectual capacity. Imre Lakatos is a notable proponent of historiographical internalism.\n\nExternalism in the historiography of science is the view that the history of science is due to its social context – the socio-political climate and the surrounding economy determines scientific progress. Thomas Kuhn is a notable proponent of historiographical externalism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46230923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46230923", "title": "Ioan Biris", "text": "Ioan Biris\n\nIoan Biris is a University Professor at the West University of Timișoara, Department of Philosophy and Communication Sciences, Romania. He studied philosophy (B. Sc., 1976) at the Babes-Bolyai University from Cluj-Napoca. Secondary studies in sociology. Ph D in Philosophy (1989) and Ph D in Sociology (2000).\n\n \"Totality, sistem, holon\" (1992); \"History and culture\" (1996); \"Values of Law and intentional Logik\" (1996); \"Sociology of civilisations\" (2000); \"Society and cultural communication\" (ed., 2006); \"Totality, sistem, holon\" (second edition, 2007); \"Concepts of social sciences. Models and applications\" (2008); \"Role of imaginary in scientific knowledge\" (ed., 2009); \"Concepts of science\" (2010); \"Philosophy and logic of social sciences\" (2014).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1656133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1656133", "title": "Jactitation", "text": "Jactitation\n\nJactitation, in common law jurisdictions, refers to the maliciously boasting or giving out by one party that he or she is married to the other. In addition, this term may refer to acts such as slander of title or other similar misrepresentations of the ownership of physical or intellectual property.\n\nThe legal action with regard to marriage has been abolished in several jurisdictions, including in the United Kingdom and in Ireland.\n\nIn the case of marriage, in order to prevent the common reputation of their marriage that might ensue, the procedure is by suit of jactitation of marriage, in which the petitioner alleges that the respondent boasts that he or she is married to the petitioner, and prays a declaration of nullity and a decree putting the respondent to perpetual silence thereafter. To the suit there are three defences:\n\nIn \"Thompson v. Rourke\", the Court of Appeal laid down that the court will not make a decree in a jactitation suit in favour of a petitioner who has at any time acquiesced in the assertion of the respondent that they were actually married.\n\nPrior to 1857 such a proceeding took place only in the ecclesiastical courts, but by express terms of the Matrimonial Causes Act 1857 it could be brought in the Probate, Divorce and Admiralty Division of the High Court.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, this suit has been abolished.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the right to petition for jactitation of marriage was abolished by section 61 of the Family Law Act 1986.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, the Family Law Act 1995 implemented the recommendations of a 1983 report by the Law Reform Commission, by abolishing the right to petition for jactitation of marriage, and instead empowering the Circuit Family Court to make a declaration about the status of a person's marriage.\n"}
{"id": "32972121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32972121", "title": "James Dunbar (writer)", "text": "James Dunbar (writer)\n\nJames Dunbar FRSE FSAS LL.D. (born 1742, died 28 May 1798) was a British philosophical writer. He was a co-founder of the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1783.\n\nHe was educated at King's College, Aberdeen, of which he was elected a \"regent\" in 1766, and in that capacity he taught moral philosophy as a Professor there for thirty years.\n\nDunbar was in favour of the amalgamation of King's College with Marischal College.\n\nHe died in his rooms at King's College on 28 May 1798.\n\nHe was replaced by Prof Robert Eden Scott in 1800.\n\nHe published:\nThe latter work deals with such topics as the \"Primeval Form of society\", \"Language as an Universal Accomplishment\", \"The Criterion of a Polished Tongue\", \"The Hereditary Genius of Nations\".\n\n"}
{"id": "44144227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44144227", "title": "Khamoshiyan", "text": "Khamoshiyan\n\nKhamoshiyan (English: Silences) is a 2015 Indian romantic horror film, written by Vikram Bhatt and directed by debutant, Karan Darra. Mahesh Bhatt and Mukesh Bhatt produced the film in association with Vishesh Films.\n\nThe film stars Gurmeet Choudhary, Ali Fazal and Sapna Pabbi in lead roles. Initially, the film was scheduled for release on 23 January 2015 but was postponed to 30 January 2015. According to Box Office India the film was declared \"Average\".\n\nKabir Walia (Ali Fazal), is a novelist, whose failed career and relationship with Simran (Debina Bonnerjee) force him to move to Kashmir in search of an inspirational story. In Kashmir, Kabir stops at a guest house run by the beautiful but mysterious lady Meera Sharma (Sapna Pabbi). Meera is married to Jaidev Dhanrajgir (Gurmeet Chaudhary), who is confined to his bed. On his first night at the guest house, Kabir begins seeing strange apparitions. He also becomes attracted towards Meera. Meera, who is also falling for Kabir, refuses to go with him. Kabir finds out that Meera has not been out of the house for two years.\n\nKabir, now in love with Meera, tries to take her away from the house. While driving away, an evil force comes before their car and they meet with an accident. Curious, Kabir calls a \"tantrik\" after drugging Meera. The tantrik discovers an evil spirit in the house which attacks them. He claims that the spirit is of Jaidev, who is dead. Realization dawns upon Kabir, and he recalls Meera speaking on the phone in a man's voice and never seeing Jaidev in person. Kabir sneaks into Jaidev's room, only to find Jaidev sleeping. Furious with Kabir, Meera tells him to leave.\n\nKabir later returns to confront Meera. She reveals that she was involved in a hit and run case two years back and to evade imprisonment, she ran away to a small town in Kashmir, where she met Jaidev, a rich industrialist. She fell in love with him and they soon got married. One night Meera saw Jaidev performing a ritual slaughter and praying to the devil. Scared and shocked, Meera tried to run away but she was caught by Jaidev. In a struggle to stop her, Jaidev fell from the balcony and was paralyzed below the waist. Meera destroys the jars of captured butterflies in the basement and Jaidev gets crestfallen after seeing the butterflies being freed. Later Jaidev committed suicide and left a letter for Meera, mentioning that she will have to live in the house forever with his soul, and if she ever tried to run away, his lawyer was instructed to open a letter upon news of his disappearance, which will detail that Meera has killed him and was the culprit in the hit and run. Meera had to stay in the house with Jaidev's soul and delude the world that her husband is alive.\n\nKabir decides to steal the letter from the lawyer's office, however, he finds that there was no lawyer and Jaidev was bluffing. On knowing Jaidev's lie, Meera and Kabir plan to cremate Jaidev's body and set his spirit to rest. While they cremate his body, a laugh echoes in one of the rooms inside the house, and Jaidev smiles in a painting sadistically. To their surprise, Jaidev returns to haunt Meera and captures her in the painting. Kabir goes to the \"tantrik\" for help, who it turns out is also a spirit. The \"tantrik\" tells Kabir that the painting is merely a portal to the world of spirits. He gives Kabir holy water to spray on Jaidev and informs him that he doesn't have long to save Meera. The captured butterfly is freed and its blood spills on a painting of two wolves. Kabir gets injured on his wrist and kills one wolf while the other retreats and its blood spills on a painting of a zombie. After a lot of deadly struggles, Kabir drinks a drop of Jaidev's blood to get Jaidev's spirit to enter his body. He later drinks holy water, which makes Jaidev's evil spirit perish, setting Meera free.\n\nKabir is shown at a book launch for \"Khamoshiyan\", his latest novel. Meera is also at the party but the two leave to spend some time alone together.\n\n\nThe main cast of Gurmeet Choudhary, Ali Fazal and Sapna Pabbi was finalized in mid-2014. In May 2014, it was reported that Gurmeet Choudhary will be playing a negative role in the film. In June 2014, actress Sapna Pabbi signed a three-film deal with Vishesh Films and committed to work on the film as her first movie of the contract. In an interview, Fazal stated that he plays a romantic writer with grey shades in the film. Producer Mahesh Bhatt in an interview said \"With a recipe of great music, state-of-art digital effects and a love story that brings back the intrigue of Mahal, it will repackage and raise the bar for the horror genre in Bollywood\". Bhatt further added that the film has the potential of becoming a franchise. Ankit Tiwari was hired to compose the film's music.\n\nThe shoot of the film's first schedule began on 5 June 2014 and ended in August 2014. Shooting for the film's second schedule took place in Kashmir in September 2014 for 15 days. Due to a high flood in Kashmir, the producers had to shift the shoot to South Africa, as a replacement for Kashmir. On 21 October 2014, filming took place in Cape Town. The pre-climax was filmed at the forests of Legacy Estates in Cape Town.\n\nA video was created to announce the launch date of a trailer of Khamoshiyan. It was uploaded on the video sharing platform, YouTube. The video only featured background music and was used to introduce the characters, unveil the logo and the tagline. The film's music launch was held in a venue below ground level, making it the first underground music launch event for a Hindi film.\n\nThe filmmakers also announced the launch of a novel and a video game. The novel will feature the story of Khamoshiyan and two other stories penned by Vikram Bhatt – 1920 (film) and . On the other hand, the video game will feature different characters who will all unveil a dark secret and tell a different story as the player advances.\n\nThe soundtrack of Khamoshiyan was composed by Ankit Tiwari, Jeet Gannguli, Navad Zafar & Bobby Imraan. The lyrics for the soundtrack were penned by Rashmi Singh and Sayeed Quadri.\n\nThe first single from the album, \"Khamoshiyan\", composed by Jeet Gannguli and crooned by Arijit Singh was released on 10 December 2014. The second single from the album, \"Tu Har Lamha\", composed by Bobby Imraan and sung by Arijit Singh, was released on 19 December 2014.\n\nAdditionally, the filmmakers purchased the rights to the song \"Aayega Aane Wala\" from the film \"Mahal\" (1949).\n\nShakti Shetty of \"Mid-Day.com\" noted similarities between \"Khamoshiyan\" and Alfred Hitchcock's \"Psycho\" and Robert Zemeckis' \"What Lies Beneath\", but commented, \"the Indianisation doesn't really come out great.\" On the story's pacing, Shetty wrote, \"If the first half was building up tension with sub-plots of mysteries, the second half does a tedious job of chronicling what happened in the past.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1402781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1402781", "title": "Letter to Flora", "text": "Letter to Flora\n\nUntil the discovery of Gnostic works among the hidden cache at Nag Hammadi, few authentic Gnostic works survived. One has been the \"Letter to Flora\" from a Valentinian teacher, Ptolemy— who is also known from the writings of Irenaeus— to a woman named Flora. The letter itself is only known by its full inclusion in Epiphanius' \"Panarion\", an unsympathetic context. \n\nThe \"Letter to Flora\" relates the Gnostic view of the Law of Moses, a rational explication of the proposition that \"the whole Law is divided into three parts; we find in it the legislation of Moses, of the elders, and of God himself\". \n\nThe Christian author of the \"Letter\" assumes that the Christian Savior was sent, not to destroy the Law, but to complete it. He divides the Law among three types: the pure legislation of God embodied in the Decalogue, the mixed legislation \"laid down for vengeance\" affected by the world-situation of its first hearers (the world being inherently evil to a Gnostic), and\n\nThough making points of a decidedly dualistic nature, Ptolemy supports his readings from \"sayings\" texts or \"logia\": \"We shall draw the proofs of what we say from the words of the Savior, which alone can lead us without error to the comprehension of reality.\" He quotes sayings of Jesus that can also be found in the gospels of Matthew and of John, and he quotes Paul.\n\nPtolemy states in the letter that, \"this division of the law (that is, god's own law) was established neither by the perfect god, as we have taught, nor surely by the devil -which it would be wrong to say- then the establisher of this division is distinct from them. And he is the craftsman and maker of this universe or world and the things within it.\" This excerpt reflects Ptolemy's gnostic view that the god that created the world is not the Perfect God, but rather an inferior god who incorrectly believed that he was the one true God, which is what he is trying to convey to Flora. \n\nSuch a publicly circulated Epistle was a literary form, rather than an actual missive sent by a \"Ptolemy\" to a \"Flora\", though it preserves that fiction, as all epistles do. The Letter was the classical equivalent of the Renaissance and modern Essay format. The attack on Ptolemy by Irenaeus does not eliminate the possibility that the present letter ascribed to him was composed by Epiphanius, in the manner of composed speeches that ancient historians put into the mouths of their protagonists, as a succinct way to sum up the Gnostic views he was intent on demolishing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20476929", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20476929", "title": "Martti Olavi Siirala", "text": "Martti Olavi Siirala\n\nMartti Olavi Siirala (November 24, 1922 – August 18, 2008) was a Finnish psychiatrist, psychoanalyst and philosopher. He was inspired by psychoanalysis, the anthropological medicine of Viktor von Weizsäcker and the existential philosophy of Martin Heidegger. The outcome was a unique synthesis theory that Siirala called social pathology.\n\nSiirala studied psychoanalysis in Zürich under the guidance of Medard Boss and Gustav Bally. There he met also colleague and lifetime friend Gaetano Benedetti. Siirala was also the founding member of Finnish Therapeia-foundation, an alternative psychoanalytic training institute established 1958. Especially in the early years Siirala was actually the principal of the foundation, both at a theoretical and practical level.\n\nIn the tradition of philosophical anthropology man is seen as a unity. No sharp distinction is to be seen between body and soul. Also man is seen as member of his society, believing that one needs contacts to others for his own welfare. Siirala accepted these theses, mostly under the influence of von Weiszäcker.\n\nSiirala saw human illness as meaningful reactions to the patient's life situations, both present and past. Also Siirala considered bodily and mental illnesses as alternative reactions. Mentally ill people he described as placeless, meaning that they have no real place among other men, their acceptance or respect. The origins of problems of this kind Siirala saw as mostly social.\n\nHandling children with problems in speech development in \"Medicine in Metamorphosis\", Siirala's attitude comes clear. Here we can think about the symptom of stuttering. From traditional point of view there is child who tries to speak, but some, probably neurological problem disturbs this process. From Siirala's point it is just that this child stutters, speak this way, and he does this as a total reaction of his whole life situation: 'A child is born into a family and a national and human network that extends across the generations'.\n\nIn modern psychiatry there is a tradition of returning patient's illness back to one specific reason. Sometimes this cause is to be found in genetics, sometimes elsewhere. From Siirala's point of view there is not a single cause but rather a net of causes: hence his opposition to what he called 'the delusion that we have reduced diseases to mere object-things, entities that can be studied in isolation...the delusion of reductive reification'. Tracking these causes starts from man, but leads to his social environment, in the end to the whole society.\n\nFreud thought psychological symptoms to be overdeterminded. It can be said that Siirala took the idea but expanded it to social field. For some patient we may think maybe of genetic fault or traumatic childhood. But we must think also patients parents childhood, the phenomena of transgenerational transmission, the teachers and social workers who have ignored the problem and so on.\n\nSiirala distinguishes two major factors in this collective pathology. The first is the delusional possession of reality. By that Siirala means an attitude where one's own assumptions are considered the only one, a position where things are already known - so there seems to be no real need to orient towards the subject. Thus for Siirala 'a central feature of the delusions of the healthy seems to be the unconscious assumption that they possess reality, the criteria of what is worth notice'.\n\nThe second is often latent despair, a hopelessness attitude. These factors can be seen for example in the history of psychiatry. Some decades ago it was already known that schizophrenia is an incurable state or condition. Therefore no real therapeutic actions were done, and patients stayed ill: a Self-fulfilling prophecy.\n\nSiirala wrote here about transfer, a social pathological formation of non-articulated life. When there is no room to people to react to problems they encounter, it has effects that harm the whole society. However, these transfers or burdens are not delivered equally. On the contrary, they often fall on the shoulders of this or that particular person, who then becomes ill. Here, Siirala maintains, the mentally or physically ill one - the Identified patient - gets ill for his society. In Siirala's view, then, 'many symptoms of schizophrenia may be precipitated by...the people around him, in an attempt to overcome tendencies in him which disturb their view of reality. This, as with many of Siirala's writings, is disturbing and provocative...[but] can never be healthily ignored'. The corollary is that the real subject of illness is not therefore the particular individual who is driven into isolation - \"placelessness\" - but the society that has driven him there.\n\nSiirala has accordingly been linked with figures like Harold Searles or Harry Stack Sullivan in his belief that the delusions of patients are 'expressions that reflect what has been dissociated, hidden, and overlooked in life'. A similar link appears in 'the psychological literature on \"Invisible Loyalties\" (Boszormenyi-Nagi & Spark 1973) and anonymous social burdens (Siirala, M. 1983)'.\n\nSiirala calls therapy the new, sharing transfer of social burden. The so-called transference of psychoanalysis is seen not only as projecting feelings to the therapist, but also as the sharing of this burden. Thus 'in order to be creative, the therapist must identify himself with the patient, share his sufferings so that he attains his goal'. This may also cause some pain to the therapist, but can at the same time make things happen that are at first sight impossible. Epistemologically Siirala stresses that therapist must keep all possibilities open, and not hang on to some preconceived theory like the oedipal theory of psychoanalysis.\n\nIn many points Siirala comes close to Ronald David Laing, a famous anti-psychiatrist from the 1960s. Indeed the work, 'Medicine in Metamorphosis' was published originally in a series edited by Laing. Both were interested in social origins of schizophrenia. On the other hand, Siirala never stops considering his patients as ill. Also he sees that they need the right kind of psychiatric treatment to gain again some kind of place among other men.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1080015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1080015", "title": "Miscarriage of justice", "text": "Miscarriage of justice\n\nA miscarriage of justice, also known as a failure of justice, is when an actually innocent person is found guilty and punished. The term can also apply to errors in the other direction—\"errors of impunity\", and to a wrongful deportation in deportation proceedings. Most criminal justice systems have some means to overturn, or \"quash\", a wrongful conviction, but this is often difficult to achieve. In some instances a wrongful conviction is not overturned for several decades, or until after the innocent person has been executed, released from custody, or has died.\n\n\"Miscarriage of justice\" is sometimes synonymous with wrongful conviction, referring to a conviction reached in an unfair or disputed trial. Wrongful convictions are frequently cited by death penalty opponents as cause to eliminate death penalties to avoid executing innocent persons. In recent years, DNA evidence has been used to clear many people falsely convicted.\n\nThe Scandinavian languages (viz. Danish, Norwegian and Swedish) have a word, the Swedish variant of which is \"justitiemord\", which literally translates as \"justice murder.\" The term exists in several languages and was originally used for cases where the accused was convicted, executed, and later cleared after death. While a miscarriage of justice is a Type I error for falsely identifying culpability, an error of impunity would be a Type II error of failing to find a culpable person guilty. However, the term \"miscarriage of justice\" is often used to describe the latter type as well.\n\nWith capital punishment decreasing, the expression has acquired an extended meaning, namely any conviction for a crime not committed by the convicted. The retention of the term \"murder\" represents both universal abhorrence against wrongful convictions and awareness of how destructive wrongful convictions are. Some Slavic languages have also the word (\"justičná vražda\" in Slovak, \"justiční vražda\" in Czech) which literally translates as \"justice murder\", but it is used for Judicial murder, while miscarriage of justice is \"justiční omyl\" in Czech, implying an error of the justice system, not a deliberate manipulation.\n\nThe term is sometimes used for a gross, deliberate miscarriage of justice. Show trials (not in the sense of high publicity, but in the sense of lack of regard to the actual legal procedure and fairness), due to their character, often lead to such travesties.\n\nThe concept of miscarriage of justice has important implications for standard of review, in that an appellate court will often only exercise its discretion to correct plain error when a miscarriage of justice (or \"manifest injustice\") would otherwise occur.\n\nCauses of miscarriages of justice include:\n\nA risk of miscarriages of justice is one of the main arguments against the death penalty. Where condemned persons are executed promptly after conviction, the most significant effect of a miscarriage of justice is irreversible. Wrongly executed people nevertheless occasionally receive posthumous pardons—which essentially void the conviction—or have their convictions quashed. Many death penalty states hold condemned persons for ten or more years before execution, so that any new evidence that might acquit them (or, at least, provide reasonable doubt) will have had time to surface.\n\nEven when a wrongly convicted person is not executed, years in prison can have a substantial, irreversible effect on the person and their family. The risk of miscarriage of justice is therefore also an argument against long sentences, like a life sentence, and cruel prison conditions.\n\nThe International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights requires the victims of miscarriage of justice to be compensated.\n\nVarious studies estimate that in the United States, between 2.3 and 5% of all prisoners are innocent. One study estimated that up to 10,000 people may be wrongfully convicted of serious crimes each year.\n\nA 2014 study estimated that 4.1% of inmates awaiting execution on death row in the United States are innocent, and that at least 340 innocent people may have been executed since 1973.\n\nAccording to Professor Boaz Sangero of the College of Law and Business in Ramat Gan in Israel, most wrongful convictions are for crimes less serious than major felonies such as rape and murder, as judicial systems are less careful in dealing with those cases.\n\nWrongful convictions appear at first to be \"rightful\" arrests and subsequent convictions, and also include a public statement about a particular crime having occurred, as well as a particular individual or individuals having committed that crime. If the conviction turns out to be a miscarriage of justice, then one or both of these statements is ultimately deemed to be false. During this time between the miscarriage of justice and its correction, the public holds false beliefs about the occurrence of a crime, the perpetrator of a crime, or both. While the public audience of a miscarriage of justice certainly varies, they may in some cases be as large as an entire nation or multitude of nations.\n\nIn cases where a large-scale audience is unknowingly witness to a miscarriage of justice, the news-consuming public may develop false beliefs about the nature of crime itself. It may also cause the public to falsely believe that certain types of crime exist, or that certain types of people tend to commit these crimes, or that certain crimes are more commonly prevalent than they actually are. Thus, wrongful convictions can ultimately mold a society's popular beliefs about crime. Because our understanding of crime is socially constructed, it has been shaped by many factors other than its actual occurrence.\n\nMass media may also be faulted for distorting the public perception of crime by over-representing certain races and genders as criminals and victims, and for highlighting more sensational and invigorating types of crimes as being more newsworthy. The way a media presents crime-related issues may have an influence not only on a society's fear of crime but also on its beliefs about the causes of criminal behavior and desirability of one or another approach to crime control. Ultimately, this may have a significant impact on critical public beliefs about emerging forms of crime such as cybercrime, global crime, and terrorism.\n\nThere are unfavorable psychological effects, even in the absence of any public knowledge. In an experiment, participants significantly reduced their pro-social behavior after being wrongfully sanctioned. As a consequence there were negative effects for the entire group. The extent of wrongful sanctions varies between societies.\n\nIn 1959, 14-year-old Steven Truscott was convicted of raping and murdering a 12-year-old girl. Originally sentenced to death by hanging, his sentence was commuted to life imprisonment. He was released on parole in 1969, and was freed from his parole restrictions in 1974. In 2007, the Ontario Court of Appeal overturned Truscott's conviction, based on a reexamination of forensic evidence. The government of Ontario awarded him $6.5 million in compensation.\n\nIn 1972, Donald Marshall Jr., a Mi'kmaq man, was wrongly convicted of murder. Marshall spent 11 years in jail before being acquitted in 1983. The case inspired a number of questions about the fairness of the Canadian justice system, especially given that Marshall was an Aboriginal: as the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation put it, \"The name Donald Marshall is almost synonymous with 'wrongful conviction' and the fight for native justice in Canada.\" Marshall received a lifetime pension of $1.5 million in compensation and his conviction resulted in changes to the Canada Evidence Act so that any evidence obtained by the prosecution must be presented to the defence on disclosure.\n\nIn 1970, David Milgaard was wrongfully convicted for the rape and murder of Gail Miller. He was released in 1992 and compensated $10 million by the Saskatchewan government after having spent 23 years in prison. After being tied to it by DNA evidence, serial rapist Larry Fisher (murderer) was convicted of the murder in 1999.\n\nIn 1992, Guy Paul Morin was convicted of the 1984 rape and murder of an 8-year-old girl and was sentenced to life imprisonment. In 1995, new testing of DNA evidence showed Morin could not have been the murderer, and the Ontario Court of Appeal overturned his conviction. The case has been described as \"a compendium of official error – from inaccurate eyewitness testimony and police tunnel vision, to scientific bungling and the suppression of evidence.\" Morin received $1.25 million in compensation from the Ontario government.\n\nEnzo Tortora, a TV host on national RAI television, was accused of being a member of the Camorra and drug trafficking. He was arrested in 1983, and sentenced to ten years in jail in 1985, but acquitted of all charges on appeal in 1986.\n\nRaffaele Sollecito and American Amanda Knox were sentenced to 26 years imprisonment for the 2007 Murder of Meredith Kercher. They were released in 2011 after an appeal court found there was no credible evidence against them. Petty burglar Rudy Guede has been convicted of murder and sexual assault in connection with the death of Ms. Kercher.\n\nThe Schiedammerpark murder case, as well as the similarly overturned case of the Putten murder, led to the installation of the \"Posthumus I committee\", which analyzed what had gone wrong in the Schiedammerpark Murder case, and came to the conclusion that confirmation bias led the police to ignore and misinterpret scientific evidence (DNA). Subsequently, the so-called Posthumus II committee investigated whether other such cases might have occurred. The committee received 25 applications from concerned and involved scientists, and decided to consider three of them further: the Lucia de Berk case, the Ina Post case, and the Enschede incest case. In these three cases, independent researchers (professors Wagenaar, van Koppen, Israëls, Crombag, and Derksen) claim confirmation bias and misuse of complex scientific evidence led to miscarriages of justice.\n\nNorwegian police, courts, and prison authorities have been criticized and convicted on several occasions by the European Court of Human Rights for breaking the principle of innocent until proven guilty. However, the maximum penalty in Norway is normally no longer than 21 years. Thereby, most of the victims have been acquitted after their release from prison.\n\nOn December 31, 1996 in Miłoszyce, Poland, a 15-year-old girl was brutally raped and murdered. Tomasz Komenda, then 21, was arrested. He pleaded guilty and was sentenced to 25 years imprisonment. Komenda was regularly abused by fellow prisoners and guards, he tried to commit suicide 3 times. In 2018 when new evidence came out, Komenda was paroled and in May 2018 his conviction was overturned and Komenda was oficially exonerated by the Supreme Court of Poland. He and his barrister stated, that they would demand 18 000 000 PLN compensation.\n\nThe Constitution of Spain guarantees compensation in cases of miscarriage of justice.\n\nIn the United Kingdom a jailed person, whose conviction is quashed, might be paid compensation for the time they were incarcerated. This is currently limited by statute to a maximum sum of £1,000,000 for those who have been incarcerated for more than ten years and £500,000 for any other cases, with deductions for the cost of food and prison cell during that time. See also .\n\nRichard Foster, the Chairman of the Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC), reported in October 2018 that the single biggest cause of miscarriage of justice was the failure to disclose vital evidence.\n\nUntil 2005, the parole system assumed all convicted persons were guilty, and poorly handled those who were not. To be paroled, a convicted person had to sign a document in which, among other things, they confessed to the crime for which they were convicted. Someone who refused to sign this declaration spent longer in jail than someone who signed it. Some wrongly convicted people, such as the Birmingham Six, were refused parole for this reason. In 2005 the system changed, and began to parole prisoners who never admitted guilt.\n\nEnglish law has no official means of correcting a \"perverse\" verdict (conviction of a defendant on the basis of insufficient evidence). Appeals are based exclusively on new evidence or errors by the judge or prosecution (but not the defence), or jury irregularities. A reversal occurred, however, in the 1930s when William Herbert Wallace was exonerated of the murder of his wife. There is no right to a trial \"without\" jury (except during the troubles in Northern Ireland or in the case where there is a significant risk of jury-tampering, such as organised crime cases, when a judge or judges presided without a jury).\n\nDuring the early 1990s, a series of high-profile cases turned out to be miscarriages of justice. Many resulted from police fabricating evidence to convict people they thought were guilty, or simply to get a high conviction rate. The West Midlands Serious Crime Squad became notorious for such practices, and was disbanded in 1989. In 1997 the Criminal Cases Review Commission was established specifically to examine possible miscarriages of justice. However, it still requires either strong new evidence of innocence, or new proof of a legal error by the judge or prosecution. For example, merely insisting you are innocent and the jury made an error, or stating there was not enough evidence to prove guilt, is not enough. It is not possible to question the jury's decision or query on what matters it was based. The waiting list for cases to be considered for review is at least two years on average.\n\nIn 2002, the NI Court of Appeal made an exception to who could avail of the right to a fair trial in R v Walsh: \"... if a defendant has been denied a fair trial it will almost be inevitable that the conviction will be regarded unsafe, the present case in our view constitutes an exception to the general rule. ... the conviction is to be regarded as safe, even if a breach of Article 6(1) were held to have occurred in the present case.\" (See Christy Walsh (Case).)\n\nThe Criminal Appeal (Scotland) Act 1927 increased the jurisdiction of the Scottish Court of Criminal Appeal following the miscarriage of justice surrounding the Trial of Oscar Slater.\n\nReflecting Scotland's own legal system, which differs from that of the rest of the United Kingdom, the Scottish Criminal Cases Review Commission (SCCRC) was established in April 1999. All cases accepted by the SCCRC are subjected to a robust and thoroughly impartial review before a decision on whether or not to refer to the High Court of Justiciary is taken.\n\nIn June 2012, the National Registry of Exonerations, a joint project of the University of Michigan Law School and Northwestern University Law School, initially reported 873 individual exonerations in the U.S. from January 1989 through February 2012; the report called this number \"tiny\" in a country with 2.3 million people in prisons and jails, but asserted that there are far more false convictions than exonerations. By 2015, the number of individual exonerations was reported as 1,733, with 2015 having the highest annual number of exonerations since 1989.\n\nIn the case of Joseph Roger O'Dell III, executed in Virginia in 1997 for a rape and murder, a prosecuting attorney bluntly argued in court in 1998 that if posthumous DNA results exonerated O'Dell, \"it would be shouted from the rooftops that ... Virginia executed an innocent man.\" The state prevailed, and the evidence was destroyed.\n\nIn 2013, in Massachusetts, a chemist admitted tampering with evidence and falsifying results regarding over 21,000 drug convictions from 2004 to 2013 by not undertaking tests and stating untested results were positive for illegal drugs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16957963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16957963", "title": "Motherland (2010 film)", "text": "Motherland (2010 film)\n\nMotherland ( \"\") is a 2010 independent documentary film directed and written by Owen 'Alik Shahadah. \"Motherland\" is the sequel to the 2005 documentary \"500 Years Later\".\n\n\"Motherland\" is a documentary about the African continent from Ancient Egypt to the present. It is an overview of African history and contemporary issues but with the African people at the centre of the story.\n\n\nThe cast features key figures from the African political world.\n\nMotherland is mixed in 5.1 Dolby Digital Surround.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "174019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174019", "title": "Nicolas Malebranche", "text": "Nicolas Malebranche\n\nNicolas Malebranche, Oratory of Jesus (; ; 6 August 1638 – 13 October 1715), was a French Oratorian priest and rationalist philosopher. In his works, he sought to synthesize the thought of St. Augustine and Descartes, in order to demonstrate the active role of God in every aspect of the world. Malebranche is best known for his doctrines of vision in God, occasionalism and ontologism.\n\nMalebranche was born in Paris in 1638, the youngest child of Nicolas Malebranche, secretary to King Louis XIII of France, and Catherine de Lauzon, sister of Jean de Lauson, a Governor of New France. Because of a malformed spine, Malebranche received his elementary education from a private tutor. He left home at the age of sixteen to pursue a course of philosophy at the Collège de la Marche, and subsequently to study theology at the Collège de Sorbonne, both colleges from the University of Paris. He eventually left the Sorbonne, having rejected scholasticism, and entered the Oratory in 1660. There, he devoted himself to ecclesiastical history, linguistics, the Bible, and the works of Saint Augustine. Malebranche was ordained a priest in 1664.\n\nIn 1664, Malebranche first read Descartes' \"Treatise on Man\", an account of the physiology of the human body. Malebranche’s biographer, Father Yves André reported that Malebranche was influenced by Descartes’ book because it allowed him to view the natural world without Aristotelian scholasticism. Malebranche spent the next decade studying the Cartesian system.\n\nIn 1674–75, Malebranche published the two volumes of his first and most extensive philosophical work. Entitled \"Concerning the Search after Truth. In which is treated the nature of the human mind and the use that must be made of it to avoid error in the sciences\" (), the book laid the foundation for Malebranche’s philosophical reputation and ideas. It dealt with the causes of human error and on how to avoid such mistakes. Most importantly, in the third book, which discussed pure understanding, he defended a claim that the ideas through which we perceive objects exist in God.\n\nMalebranche's first critic was the Abbé Simon Foucher, who attacked the \"Search\" even before its second volume had been published. Malebranche replied in a short preface added to that second volume, and then, in the 1678 third edition, he added 50% to the already considerable size of the book with a sequence of (eventually) seventeen \"Elucidations\". These responded to further criticisms, but they also expanded on the original arguments, and developed them in new ways. In the Tenth \"Elucidation\", for instance, Malebranche introduced his theory of \"intelligible extension\", a single, archetypal idea of extension into which the ideas of all particular kinds of bodies could be jointly resolved. In others, Malebranche placed a greater emphasis than he had previously done on his occasionalist account of causation, and particularly on his contention that God acted for the most part through \"general volitions\" and only rarely, as in the case of miracles, through \"particular volitions\".\n\nMalebranche expanded on this last point in 1680 when he published \"Treatise on Nature and Grace\". Here, he made it explicit that the generality of the laws whereby God regulated His behaviour extended not only to His activity in the natural world but also applied to His gift of grace to human beings. The book was attacked by fellow Cartesian philosopher, Antoine Arnauld, and, although Arnauld's initial concerns were theological ones, the bitter dispute which ensued very quickly branched out into most other areas of their respective systems. Over the next few years, the two men wrote enough polemics against one other to fill four volumes of Malebranche's collected works and three of Arnauld's. Arnauld's supporters managed to persuade the Roman Catholic Church to place \"Nature and Grace\" on its Index of Prohibited Books in 1690, and it was followed there by the \"Search\" nineteen years later. (Ironically, the Index already contained several works by the Jansenist Arnauld himself.) Other critics with whom Malebranche entered into significant discussion include another fellow Cartesian, Pierre Sylvain Regis, as well as Dortous de Mairan. De Mairan was sympathetic to the views of Baruch Spinoza, and felt that he had found similar views in his reading of Malebranche: Malebranche assiduously resisted such an association.\n\n\nJust as all human action (along with the action of any other creature) is entirely dependent on God, so too is all human cognition. Malebranche argued that human knowledge is dependent on divine understanding in a way analogous to that in which the motion of bodies is dependent on divine will. Like René Descartes, Malebranche held that humans attain knowledge through ideas – immaterial representations present to the mind. But whereas Descartes believed ideas are mental entities, Malebranche argued that all ideas exist only in God. These ideas, therefore, are uncreated and independent of finite minds. When we access them intellectually, we apprehend objective truth. Malebranche defined \"truth\" as a relation between ideas: since these ideas are in God, they are eternal and immutable, and consequently the only truths worthy of the name will themselves be eternal and immutable. Malebranche divided these relations between ideas into two categories: relations of magnitude and relations of quality or perfection. The former constitute \"speculative\" truths, such as those of geometry, while the latter constitute the \"practical\" truths of ethics. Ethical principles, for Malebranche, are therefore divine in their foundation, universal in their application, and to be discovered by intellectual contemplation, just as geometrical principles are.\n\nWith regard to this account of intellectual knowledge, Malebranche was more or less following Saint Augustine. His great innovation was to explain how these same divine ideas could also serve as the immediate objects of human minds in sensual perception. The problem there is that the divine ideas are universal, whereas all perception seems to be of particulars. Malebranche's solution was to suggest that, whereas the mind's intellectual conception of these ideas is pure and direct, its sensual perception of them will be modified by \"sensations\". These sensations, unlike the ideas, are indeed proper to individual created minds, and subsist as modes thereof. The idea will represent only the geometrical or mechanical properties of bodies (size, shape, motion), while the sensation will consist in colour or some other sensible quality. The latter will limit the mind's apprehension of the former in such a manner as to make it represent a particular individual to that mind. To a different mind, one with a different sensation, the same idea could represent a different individual of the same general kind. In the \"Dialogues On Metaphysics And Religion\" (dialogue 1), Malebranche added that the same basic structure can also account for (the mental as opposed to the physiological element in) imagination, in this case where the idea only \"lightly touches\" the mind.\n\nMalebranche was strongly influenced by Descartes but did not accept his philosophy uncritically. He is noted particularly for his view that we see all things in God and for his adoption of psycho-physical parallelism and 'occasionalism' to deal with the problem of interaction between mind and body. However, his attribution of epistemological and explanatory primacy to God leads to difficulties.\n\n(1) If we see all things in God in the sense that He puts the ideas into our minds we can have no direct knowledge of the external world. We can appeal to clear and distinct ideas as a criterion for the veridicality of judgements about physical things, but it is God who is ultimately responsible for our ideas.\n\n(2) If all things are under the direct control of God, subject to His will, what of human freedom? Malebranche's view that we have freedom to choose but only in relation to finite goods is not convincing, denying as it does the possibility of resistance of movement towards God as the universal good.\n\n(3) In so far as God is not to be identified with the archetypal eternal truths in his mind Malebranche is not a pantheist. But, as in mediaeval philosophy, this gives rise to the problem of reconciling God's freedom with His supposed immutability.\n\n(4) God is central to Malebranche's philosophy. However, his 'vision' of all things in God needs to be supported by rational proof. Unfortunately he offers only the Cartesian version of the ontological argument; and this is open to the standard objection that an entity's actuality cannot be derived from a mere abstract concept.\n\nMalebranche's theodicy is his solution to the problem of evil. Although he conceded that God had the power to create a more perfect world, free from all defects, such a world would have necessitated a greater complexity in divine ways. Thus, God produces the natural evils that follow from simple laws not because he wills those particular effects, but because he wills a world that best reflects his wisdom by achieving the best possible balance between the intrinsic perfection of the work and the simplicity and generality of its laws.\n\nWhereas Malebranche followed Augustine in his description of intellectual knowledge, in his approach to mind-body problems he began as a follower of Descartes. But in contrast to Descartes, who considered it possible to form a clear and distinct idea of the mind, Malebranche argues in the \"Dialogues on Metaphysics\", a dialogue between Theodore and Aristes, that we do not have a complete conception of the powers of the mind, and thus no clear conception of the nature of the mind.\n\nI am unable, when I turn to myself, to recognize any of my faculties or my capacities. The inner sensation which I have of myself informs me that I am, that I think, that I will, that I have sensory awareness, that I suffer, and so on; but it provides me with no knowledge whatever of \"what\" I am - of the nature of my thought, my sensations, my passions, or my pain - or the mutual relations that obtain between all these things [...] I have no idea whatever of my soul.\n\nThis leads Theodore to declare that 'I am not my own light to myself'; the nature of our own minds is highly obscure. What is more, with regard to psycho-physical interaction, Malebranche argues that body could not act on mind, nor mind on body. The only active power (hence the only efficient cause of change in the world) is God. When I will that my arm should rise, my volition is the \"occasion\" or the \"occasional cause\" of the movement of my arm; the efficient cause of both my volition and the movement of my arm is God. Malebranche's doctrine, which could be found in contemporary commentaries on Aristotle, and which first appeared in certain Arab philosophers, is therefore called \"occasionalism\".\n\nIn general, occasionalism is the view that there are no efficient causes in the full sense other than God. Created things are at best \"occasions\" for divine activity. Bodies and minds act neither on themselves nor on each other; God alone brings about all the phenomena of nature and the mind. Changes occurring in created things will exhibit regularities (and will thus satisfy a Humean definition of causation) because God in creating the world, observes what Malebranche calls \"order\": he binds himself to act according to laws of nature chosen in accordance with his general will that the world be as good as possible, and thus (for example) that the laws be simple and few in number.\n\nIn particular, there will be laws governing what we would customarily call the \"interaction\" of body and mind, so that similar movements in the body will \"occasion\" similar ideas in the mind. That relation has some features of the causal relation (it satisfies, for example, universal conditionals of the form \"Whenever \"C\" occurs, \"E\" occurs\"). But in reality both the idea in the mind and the movement in the body are caused by God.\n\nAlthough better known for his philosophical work, Malebranche made some notable contributions to physics, working within a broadly Cartesian framework but nevertheless prepared to depart from Descartes where necessary. In 1699, he delivered an address to the Académie Royale des Sciences on the nature of light and color, wherein he argued that different colors resulted out of different frequencies in the pressure vibrations of subtle matter, much as different musical tones derived from different frequencies in the vibrations of air. His theory was presented as a corrective to Descartes' view, rather than a refutation thereof, but it has important parallels with the rival optical theory of Isaac Newton. Newton had already developed his position some thirty years earlier, but Malebranche probably would not have been aware of it until it was finally published in the \"Opticks\" of 1704, or, more likely, in its Latin translation of 1706. When Malebranche revised his 1699 paper for inclusion as the Sixteenth \"Elucidation\" of the 1712 edition of \"The Search After Truth\", he inserted a number of references to \"Newton's excellent work\".\n\nIn addition, Malebranche wrote on the laws of motion, a topic he discussed extensively with Leibniz. He also wrote on mathematics and, although he made no major mathematical discoveries of his own, he was instrumental in introducing and disseminating the contributions of Descartes and Leibniz in France. Malebranche introduced l'Hôpital to Johann Bernoulli, with the ultimate result being the publication of the first textbook in infinitesimal calculus.\n\nMalebranche also developed an original theory related to preformationism, postulating that each embryo probably contained even smaller embryos ad infinitum, like an idealized Matryoshka doll. According to Malebranche, \"an infinite series of plants and animals were contained within the seed or the egg, but only naturalists with sufficient skill and experience could detect their presence.\" (Magner 158–9)\n\nAside, perhaps, from John Norris (who, in any case, drew at least as much from Malebranche's own sources, primarily Saint Augustine, as he did from Malebranche himself), there are few if any philosophers who can be considered faithful followers of Malebranche in all matters. He was, however, held in widespread high regard within his own lifetime and for some time afterwards, and the influence of certain of his ideas can be discerned in the works of several important figures.\n\nPierre Bayle regarded Malebranche as \"one of the greatest philosophers of this age\" (though, admittedly, not as \"the\" greatest, as is often reported). In note H to his \"Zeno of Elea\" article, Bayle discussed Malebranche's views on material substance with particular approval. Occasionalism and the vision in God seem to make the real existence of material substance redundant. Not only is it unable to be directly perceived, but it cannot actually affect us or anything else in any way at all. Descartes had also maintained that matter was not directly perceivable, but he had argued that the veracity of God could support a proof of its certain existence. Malebranche, however, weakened Descartes' argument, concluding that, from a philosophical point of view, its existence could only be shown to be probable. Bayle pushed even further down this same path, thereby laying much of the ground work for the immaterialism of George Berkeley. Berkeley, influenced both by Bayle and directly by Malebranche himself, simply took the final step to a full denial of the existence of material substance. (Arthur Collier, who was also influenced directly by Malebranche, and by Norris, made the same move at around the same time as Berkeley did, but, it would appear, entirely independently of him.) Berkeley, admittedly, did reject the theory of vision in God. \"It is evident\", he insisted, \"that the things I perceive are my own ideas.\" But he was influenced by Malebranche's occasionalism, even though he excluded the activity of created minds from its domain. In addition, Berkeley agreed with Malebranche, against Descartes, that we could not achieve a clear idea of the mind itself. John Locke had also argued for this, but he had made no distinction between minds and bodies on this point, whereas both Berkeley and Malebranche maintained (each in his own way) that we could have ideas of bodies but not of minds.\n\nGottfried Wilhelm Leibniz (who met Malebranche in Paris in about 1675 and corresponded with him thereafter) also rejected the vision in God, and his theory of pre-established harmony was designed as a new alternative to occasionalism as well as to the more traditional theory of efficient causal interaction. However, in his own theodicy, even if it was somewhat more elaborate than Malebranche's, he did at least agree with Malebranche's fundamental contention that the simplicity of God's ways had to be given as much regard as the world's perfection.\n\nDavid Hume supported and drew upon Malebranche's negative arguments to show that no genuine causal connections could be conceived between distinct mundane entities. However, when it came to finding a positive replacement for such causal connections, he turned inwards to the workings of the human mind, instead of turning upwards to God. With regard to this second half of Malebranche's occasionalism, Hume wrote:\n\nHume's empiricist epistemology led him to distrust Malebranche's confidence in discovering abstruse metaphysical truths through an intellectual union with God. Likewise, Locke felt that Malebranche's metaphysical speculations lacked a proper foundation, and, though ingenious, were ultimately unintelligible. In a somewhat similar manner, Arthur Schopenhauer regarded the theory of vision in God as \"explaining something unknown by something even more unknown.\"\n\nLocke withheld his \"An Examination of P[ère] Malebranche's Opinion Of Seeing All Things In God\" from publication, \"because he looked upon it to be an opinion that would not spread but was like to die of itself, or at least to do no great harm.\" Much as Locke predicted, Malebranche's reputation outside France (where he always enjoyed high esteem) did begin to diminish during the 18th century, and remained low thereafter. However, over the last three or four decades, Malebranche's work has drawn renewed and ever-increasing interest. Several of his works have been translated into English for the first time, as scholars have been reassessing his ideas. Many have begun to argue that the originality and unity of his philosophical system merits him a place alongside such figures as Descartes, Spinoza, and Leibniz.\n\n\nThe Thomas Taylor translation of the \"Search\" (1694; second edition 1700) includes material not contained in the Lennon and Olscamp edition (which is based on the 1712 version of the text). It is bound with Malebranche's \"Defence against the Accusation of M. de la Ville\", which has not been available in English at all since the seventeenth century. The \"Treatise of Nature and Grace\" is also included in the same volume. Rival translations of all three of these works were also published by Richard Sault in 1694–95. In addition, the \"Conversations chrétiennes\" were translated in 1695 as \"Christian Conferences... to which is added, Meditations on Humility and Repentance\": this work has also been unavailable in English since the seventeenth century.\n\nThe standard edition of Malebranche's works in French is the \"Oeuvres Complètes\", ed. André Robinet, twenty volumes (Paris: J. Vrin, 1958–78).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44584462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44584462", "title": "Padarath", "text": "Padarath\n\nPadarath(), literally meaning \"treasure\" or \"wealth\", is a term used in the Sikh religion for a \"\"step of spiritual Enlightenment\".\" In Guru Granth Sahib, the term Padarath is used for temporal as well as Spiritual attainments. There are four \"Spiritual Treasures\" in Sikhism, known as the Char Padarath (), given hereunder:\n\nAccording to Guru Arjan Dev, if a soul attains Naam Padarath, he gets Janam Padarath automatically. In Guru Granth Sahib, he mentioned in a Salok, \"O Nanak, if I am blessed with the Naam, I live, and my body and mind blossom forth.\" Only the liberated soul can achieve Naam Padarath. The liberation (Mukat Padarath) is attained by accepting wisdom of Guru (Gyan Padarath) and applicable in one's lifestyle. Guru Amar Das states \"Through the Spiritual wisdom, the Gurmukh is liberated.\" All the above tasks are categorized under \"Hari Ki Seva\" (Pleasing the one God).\nAs per Mahankosh, Padarath is a \"noun\" means a thing or precious thing and as per Hindu Puranas, there are four Padarath which are Dharma, Artha, Kama and Moksha.\n"}
{"id": "56105606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56105606", "title": "Peter Menzies (philosopher)", "text": "Peter Menzies (philosopher)\n\nPeter Menzies (5 Feb 1953 - 6 Feb 2015) was an Australian philosopher and past president of the Australasian Association of Philosophy, who held teaching positions at Macquarie University, University of Sydney, and Australian National University. He specialized in metaphysics, especially the philosophy of causation. He became a fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities in 2007.\n\nMenzies was a student of Nancy Cartwright at Stanford University where he received his PhD in 1984.\n\nHe and philosopher Huw Price developed a version of Agency Theory of Causation, which is statement of manipulability theory of causation. In this view, human actors play an important role in cause and effect.\n"}
{"id": "2384021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2384021", "title": "Potentiality and actuality", "text": "Potentiality and actuality\n\nIn philosophy, potentiality and actuality are a pair of closely connected principles which Aristotle used to analyze motion, causality, ethics, and physiology in his \"Physics\", \"Metaphysics\", \"Nicomachean Ethics\" and \"De Anima\", which is about the human psyche.\n\nThe concept of potentiality, in this context, generally refers to any \"possibility\" that a thing can be said to have. Aristotle did not consider all possibilities the same, and emphasized the importance of those that become real of their own accord when conditions are right and nothing stops them.\nActuality, in contrast to potentiality, is the motion, change or activity that represents an exercise or fulfillment of a possibility, when a possibility becomes real in the fullest sense.\n\nThese concepts, in modified forms, remained very important into the middle ages, influencing the development of medieval theology in several ways. Going further into modern times, while the understanding of nature, and according to some interpretations deity, implied by the dichotomy lost importance, the terminology has found new uses, developing indirectly from the old. This is most obvious in words like \"energy\" and \"dynamic\"--words first used in modern physics by the German scientist and philosopher, Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz. Another example is the highly controversial biological concept of an \"entelechy\".\n\nPotentiality and potency are translations of the Ancient Greek word \"dunamis\" (δύναμις) as it is used by Aristotle as a concept contrasting with actuality. Its Latin translation is \"potentia\", root of the English word potential, and used by some scholars instead of the Greek or English variants.\n\n\"Dunamis\" is an ordinary Greek word for possibility or capability. Depending on context, it could be translated \"potency\", \"potential\", \"capacity\", \"ability\", \"power\", \"capability\", \"strength\", \"possibility\", \"force\" and is the root of modern English words \"dynamic\", \"dynamite\", and \"dynamo\". In early modern philosophy, English authors like Hobbes and Locke used the English word \"power\" as their translation of Latin \"potentia\".\n\nIn his philosophy, Aristotle distinguished two meanings of the word \"dunamis\". According to his understanding of nature there was both a weak sense of potential, meaning simply that something \"might chance to happen or not to happen\", and a stronger sense, to indicate how something could be done \"well\". For example, \"sometimes we say that those who can merely take a walk, or speak, without doing it as well as they intended, cannot speak or walk\". This stronger sense is mainly said of the potentials of living things, although it is also sometimes used for things like musical instruments.\n\nThroughout his works, Aristotle clearly distinguishes things that are stable or persistent, with their own strong natural tendency to a specific type of change, from things that appear to occur by chance. He treats these as having a different and more real existence. \"Natures which persist\" are said by him to be one of the causes of all things, while natures that do not persist, \"might often be slandered as not being at all by one who fixes his thinking sternly upon it as upon a criminal\". The potencies which persist in a particular material are one way of describing \"the nature itself\" of that material, an innate source of motion and rest within that material. In terms of Aristotle's theory of four causes, a material's non-accidental potential, is the material cause of the things that can come to be from that material, and one part of how we can understand the substance (\"ousia\", sometimes translated as \"thinghood\") of any separate thing. (As emphasized by Aristotle, this requires his distinction between accidental causes and natural causes.) According to Aristotle, when we refer to the nature of a thing, we are referring to the form, shape or look of a thing, which was already present as a potential, an innate tendency to change, in that material before it achieved that form, but things show what they are more fully, as a real thing, when they are \"fully at work\".\n\nActuality is often used to translate both \"energeia\" (ενέργεια) and \"entelecheia\" (ἐντελέχεια) (sometimes rendered in English as \"entelechy\"). \"Actuality\" comes from Latin \"\" and is a traditional translation, but its normal meaning in Latin is \"anything which is currently happening\".\n\nThe two words \"energeia\" and \"entelecheia\" were coined by Aristotle, and he stated that their meanings were intended to converge. In practice, most commentators and translators consider the two words to be interchangeable. They both refer to something being in its own type of action or at work, as all things are when they are real in the fullest sense, and not just potentially real. For example, \"to be a rock is to strain to be at the center of the universe, and thus to be in motion unless constrained otherwise\".\n\n\"Energeia\" is a word based upon ἔργον (\"ergon\"), meaning \"work\". It is the source of the modern word \"energy\" but the term has evolved so much over the course of the history of science that reference to the modern term is not very helpful in understanding the original as used by Aristotle. It is difficult to translate his use of \"energeia\" into English with consistency. Joe Sachs renders it with the phrase \"being–at–work\" and says that \"we might construct the word is-at-work-ness from Anglo-Saxon roots to translate \"energeia\" into English\". Aristotle says the word can be made clear by looking at examples rather than trying to find a definition.\n\nTwo examples of \"energeiai\" in Aristotle's works are pleasure and happiness (eudaimonia). Pleasure is an \"energeia\" of the human body and mind whereas happiness is more simply the \"energeia\" of a human being a human.\n\n\"Kinesis\", translated as movement, motion, or in some contexts change, is also explained by Aristotle as a particular type of \"energeia\". See below.\n\nEntelechy, in Greek \"entelécheia\", was coined by Aristotle and transliterated in Latin as \"\". According to :\n\nAristotle invents the word by combining \"entelēs\" (ἐντελής, \"complete, full-grown\") with \"echein\" (<nowiki>=</nowiki> \"hexis\", to be a certain way by the continuing effort of holding on in that condition), while at the same time punning on \"endelecheia\" (ἐνδελέχεια, \"persistence\") by inserting \"telos\" (τέλος, \"completion\"). This is a three-ring circus of a word, at the heart of everything in Aristotle's thinking, including the definition of motion.\n\nSachs therefore proposed a complex neologism of his own, \"being-at-work-staying-the-same\". Another translation in recent years is \"being-at-an-end\" (which Sachs has also used).\n\n\"Entelecheia\", as can be seen by its derivation, is a kind of completeness, whereas \"the end and completion of any genuine being is its being-at-work\" (\"energeia\"). The \"entelecheia\" is a continuous being-at-work (\"energeia\") when something is doing its complete \"work\". For this reason, the meanings of the two words converge, and they both depend upon the idea that every thing's \"thinghood\" is a kind of work, or in other words a specific way of being in motion. All things that exist now, and not just potentially, are beings-at-work, and all of them have a tendency towards being-at-work in a particular way that would be their proper and \"complete\" way.\n\nSachs explains the convergence of \"energeia\" and \"entelecheia\" as follows, and uses the word actuality to describe the overlap between them:\n\nJust as \"energeia\" extends to \"entelecheia\" because it is the activity which makes a thing what it is, \"entelecheia\" extends to \"energeia\" because it is the end or perfection which has being only in, through, and during activity.\n\nAristotle discusses motion (\"kinēsis\") in his \"Physics\" quite differently from modern science. Aristotle's definition of motion is closely connected to his actuality-potentiality distinction. Taken literally, Aristotle defines motion as the actuality (\"entelecheia\") of a \"potentiality as such\". What Aristotle meant however is the subject of several different interpretations. A major difficulty comes from the fact that the terms actuality and potentiality, linked in this definition, are normally understood within Aristotle as opposed to each other. On the other hand, the \"as such\" is important and is explained at length by Aristotle, giving examples of \"potentiality as such\". For example, the motion of building is the \"energeia\" of the \"dunamis\" of the building materials \"as building materials\" as opposed to anything else they might become, and this potential in the unbuilt materials is referred to by Aristotle as \"the buildable\". So the motion of building is the actualization of \"the buildable\" and not the actualization of a house as such, nor the actualization of any other possibility which the building materials might have had.\n\nIn an influential 1969 paper Aryeh Kosman divided up previous attempts to explain Aristotle's definition into two types, criticised them, and then gave his own third interpretation. While this has not become a consensus, it has been described as having become \"orthodox\". This and similar more recent publications are the basis of the following summary.\n\n and associate this approach with W.D. Ross. points out that it was also the interpretation of Averroes and Maimonides.\n\nThis interpretation is, to use the words of Ross that \"it is the passage to actuality that is \"kinesis\"” as opposed to any potentiality being an actuality.\n\nThe argument of Ross for this interpretation requires him to assert that Aristotle actually used his own word \"entelecheia\" wrongly, or inconsistently, only within his definition, making it mean \"actualization\", which is in conflict with Aristotle's normal use of words. According to this explanation also can not account for the \"as such\" in Aristotle's definition.\n\n associates this interpretation with St Thomas of Aquinas and explains that by this explanation \"the apparent contradiction between potentiality and actuality in Aristotle’s definition of motion\" is resolved \"by arguing that in every motion actuality and potentiality are mixed or blended\". Motion is therefore \"the actuality of any potentiality insofar as it is still a potentiality\". Or in other words:\n\nThe Thomistic blend of actuality and potentiality has the characteristic that, to the extent that it is actual it is not potential and to the extent that it is potential it is not actual; the hotter the water is, the less is it potentially hot, and the cooler it is, the less is it actually, the more potentially, hot.\nAs with the first interpretation however, objects that:\n\nOne implication of this interpretation is that whatever happens to be the case right now is an \"entelechia\", as though something that is intrinsically unstable as the instantaneous position of an arrow in flight deserved to be described by the word that everywhere else Aristotle reserves for complex organized states that persist, that hold out against internal and external causes that try to destroy them.\nIn a more recent paper on this subject, Kosman associates the view of Aquinas with those of his own critics, David Charles, Jonathan Beere, and Robert Heineman.\n\n, amongst other authors (such as Aryeh Kosman and Ursula Coope), proposes that the solution to problems interpreting Aristotle's definition must be found in the distinction Aristotle makes between two different types of potentiality, with only one of those corresponding to the \"potentiality as such\" appearing in the definition of motion. He writes:\nThe man with sight, but with his eyes closed, differs from the blind man, although neither is seeing. The first man has the capacity to see, which the second man lacks. There are then potentialities as well as actualities in the world. But when the first man opens his eyes, has he lost the capacity to see? Obviously not; while he is seeing, his capacity to see is no longer merely a potentiality, but is a potentiality which has been put to work. The potentiality to see exists sometimes as active or at-work, and sometimes as inactive or latent.\n\nComing to motion, Sachs gives the example of a man walking across the room and says that...\n\n, in his commentary of Aristotle's \"Physics\" book III gives the following results from his understanding of Aristotle's definition of motion:\nThe genus of which motion is a species is being-at-work-staying-itself (\"entelecheia\"), of which the only other species is thinghood. The being-at-work-staying-itself of a potency (\"dunamis\"), as material, is thinghood. The being-at-work-staying-the-same of a potency as a potency is motion.\n\nThe actuality-potentiality distinction in Aristotle is a key element linked to everything in his physics and metaphysics.\n\nAristotle describes potentiality and actuality, or potency and action, as one of several distinctions between things that exist or do not exist. In a sense, a thing that exists potentially does not exist, but the potential does exist. And this type of distinction is expressed for several different types of being within Aristotle's categories of being. For example, from Aristotle's \"Metaphysics\", 1017a:\n\nWithin the works of Aristotle the terms \"energeia\" and \"entelecheia\", often translated as actuality, differ from what is merely actual because they specifically presuppose that all things have a proper kind of activity or work which, if achieved, would be their proper end. Greek for end in this sense is telos, a component word in \"entelecheia\" (a work that is the proper end of a thing) and also teleology. This is an aspect of Aristotle's theory of four causes and specifically of formal cause (\"eidos\", which Aristotle says is \"energeia\") and final cause (\"telos\").\n\nIn essence this means that Aristotle did not see things as matter in motion only, but also proposed that all things have their own aims or ends. In other words, for Aristotle (unlike modern science) there is a distinction between things with a natural cause in the strongest sense, and things that truly happen by accident. He also distinguishes non-rational from rational potentialities (e.g. the capacity to heat and the capacity to play the flute, respectively), pointing out that the latter require desire or deliberate choice for their actualization. Because of this style of reasoning, Aristotle is often referred to as having a teleology, and sometimes as having a theory of forms.\n\nWhile actuality is linked by Aristotle to his concept of a formal cause, potentiality (or potency) on the other hand, is linked by Aristotle to his concepts of hylomorphic matter and material cause. Aristotle wrote for example that \"matter exists potentially, because it may attain to the form; but when it exists actually, it is then in the form\".\n\nThe active intellect was a concept Aristotle described that requires an understanding of the actuality-potentiality dichotomy. Aristotle described this in his \"De Anima\" (book 3, ch. 5, 430a10-25) and covered similar ground in his \"Metaphysics\" (book 12, ch.7-10). The following is from the \"De Anima\", translated by Joe Sachs, with some parenthetic notes about the Greek. The passage tries to explain \"how the human intellect passes from its original state, in which it does not think, to a subsequent state, in which it does.\" He inferred that the energeia/dunamis distinction must also exist in the soul itself:-\n...since in nature one thing is the material [\"hulē\"] for each kind [\"genos\"] (this is what is in potency all the particular things of that kind) but it is something else that is the causal and productive thing by which all of them are formed, as is the case with an art in relation to its material, it is necessary in the soul [\"psuchē\"] too that these distinct aspects be present;\nthe one sort is intellect [\"nous\"] by becoming all things, the other sort by forming all things, in the way an active condition [\"hexis\"] like light too makes the colors that are in potency be at work as colors [\"to phōs poiei ta dunamei onta chrōmata energeiai chrōmata\"].\nThis sort of intellect is separate, as well as being without attributes and unmixed, since it is by its thinghood a being-at-work, for what acts is always distinguished in stature above what is acted upon, as a governing source is above the material it works on.\nKnowledge [\"epistēmē\"], in its being-at-work, is the same as the thing it knows, and while knowledge in potency comes first in time in any one knower, in the whole of things it does not take precedence even in time.\nThis does not mean that at one time it thinks but at another time it does not think, but when separated it is just exactly what it is, and this alone is deathless and everlasting (though we have no memory, because this sort of intellect is not acted upon, while the sort that is acted upon is destructible), and without this nothing thinks.\n\nThis has been referred to as one of \"the most intensely studied sentences in the history of philosophy\". In the \"Metaphysics\", Aristotle wrote at more length on a similar subject and is often understood to have equated the active intellect with being the \"unmoved mover\" and God. Nevertheless, as Davidson remarks:\nJust what Aristotle meant by potential intellect and active intellect - terms not even explicit in the \"De anima\" and at best implied - and just how he understood the interaction between them remains moot to this day. Students of the history of philosophy continue to debate Aristotle's intent, particularly the question whether he considered the active intellect to be an aspect of the human soul or an entity existing independently of man.\n\nAlready in Aristotle's own works, the concept of a distinction between \"energeia\" and \"dunamis\" was used in many ways, for example to describe the way striking metaphors work, or human happiness. Polybius about 150 BC, in his work the \"Histories\" uses Aristotle's word \"energeia\" in both an Aristotelian way and also to describe the \"clarity and vividness\" of things. Diodorus Siculus in 60-30 BC used the term in a very similar way to Polybius. However Diodorus uses the term to denote qualities unique to individuals. Using the term in ways that could translated as \"vigor\" or \"energy\" (in a more modern sense); for society, \"practice\" or \"custom\"; for a thing, \"operation\" or \"working\"; like vigor in action.\n\nPlotinus was a late classical pagan philosopher and theologian whose monotheistic re-workings of Plato and Aristotle were influential amongst early Christian theologians. In his \"Enneads\" he sought to reconcile ideas of Aristotle and Plato together with a form of monotheism, that used three fundamental metaphysical principles, which were conceived of in terms consistent with Aristotle's energeia/dunamis dichotomy, and one interpretation of his concept of the Active Intellect (discussed above):-\nThis was based largely upon Plotinus' reading of Plato, but also incorporated many Aristotelian concepts, including the Unmoved Mover as \"energeia\".\n\nIn Eastern Orthodox Christianity, St Gregory Palamas wrote about the \"energies\" (actualities; singular \"energeia\" in Greek, or \"actus\" in Latin) of God in contrast to God's \"essence\" (\"ousia\"). These are two distinct types of existence, with God's energy being the type of existence which people can perceive, while the essence of God is outside of normal existence or non-existence or human understanding, in that it is not caused or created by anything else.\n\nPalamas gave this explanation as part of his defense of the Eastern Orthodox ascetic practice of hesychasm. Palamism became a standard part of Orthodox dogma after 1351.\n\nIn contrast, the position of Western Medieval (or Catholic) Christianity, can be found for example in the philosophy of Thomas Aquinas, who relied on Aristotle's concept of entelechy, when he defined God as \"actus purus\", pure act, actuality unmixed with potentiality. The existence of a truly distinct essence of God which is not actuality, is not generally accepted in Catholic Theology.\n\nThe notion of possibility was greatly analyzed by medieval and modern philosophers. Aristotle's logical work in this area is considered by some to be an anticipation of modal logic and its treatment of potentiality and time. Indeed, many philosophical interpretations of possibility are related to a famous passage on Aristotle's \"On Interpretation\", concerning the truth of the statement: \"There will be a sea battle tomorrow\".\n\nContemporary philosophy regards possibility, as studied by modal metaphysics, to be an aspect of modal logic. Modal logic as a named subject owes much to the writings of the Scholastics, in particular William of Ockham and John Duns Scotus, who reasoned informally in a modal manner, mainly to analyze statements about essence and accident.\n\nAristotle's metaphysics, his account of nature and causality, was for the most part rejected by the early modern philosophers. Francis Bacon in his \"Novum Organon\" in one explanation of the case for rejecting the concept of a formal cause or \"nature\" for each type of thing, argued for example that philosophers must still look for formal causes but only in the sense of \"simple natures\" such as colour, and weight, which exist in many gradations and modes in very different types of individual bodies. In the works of Thomas Hobbes then, the traditional Aristotelian terms, \"potentia et actus\", are discussed, but he equates them simply to \"cause and effect\".\n\nThere was an adaptation of at least one aspect of Aristotle's potentiality and actuality distinction, which has become part of modern physics, although as per Bacon's approach it is a generalized form of energy, not one connected to specific forms for specific things. The definition of energy in modern physics as the product of mass and the square of velocity, was derived by Leibniz, as a correction of Descartes, based upon Galileo's investigation of falling bodies. He preferred to refer to it as an \"entelecheia\" or \"living force\" (Latin \"vis viva\"), but what he defined is today called \"kinetic energy\", and was seen by Leibniz as a modification of Aristotle's \"energeia\", and his concept of the potential for movement which is in things. Instead of each type of physical thing having its own specific tendency to a way of moving or changing, as in Aristotle, Leibniz said that instead, force, power, or motion itself could be transferred between things of different types, in such a way that there is a general conservation of this energy. In other words, Leibniz's modern version of entelechy or energy obeys its own laws of nature, whereas different types of things do not have their own separate laws of nature. Leibniz wrote: ...the entelechy of Aristotle, which has made so much noise, is nothing else but force or activity ; that is, a state from which action naturally flows if nothing hinders it. But matter, primary and pure, taken without the souls or lives which are united to it, is purely passive ; properly speaking also it is not a substance, but something incomplete.\n\nLeibniz's study of the \"entelechy\" now known as energy was a part of what he called his new science of \"dynamics\", based on the Greek word \"dunamis\" and his understanding that he was making a modern version of Aristotle's old dichotomy. He also referred to it as the \"new science of power and action\", (Latin \"\"potentia et effectu\" and \"potentia et actione\"\"). And it is from him that the modern distinction between statics and dynamics in physics stems. The emphasis on \"dunamis\" in the name of this new science comes from the importance of his discovery of potential energy which is not active, but which conserves energy nevertheless. \"As 'a science of power and action', dynamics arises when Leibniz proposes an adequate architectonic of laws for constrained, as well as unconstrained, motions.\"\n\nFor Leibniz, like Aristotle, this law of nature concerning entelechies was also understood as a metaphysical law, important not only for physics, but also for understanding life and the soul. A soul, or spirit, according to Leibniz, can be understood as a type of entelechy (or living monad) which has distinct perceptions and memory.\n\nAs discussed above, terms derived from \"dunamis\" and \"energeia\" have become parts of modern scientific vocabulary with a very different meaning from Aristotle's. The original meanings are not used by modern philosophers unless they are commenting on classical or medieval philosophy. In contrast, \"entelecheia\", in the form of \"entelechy\" is a word used much less in technical senses in recent times.\n\nAs mentioned above, the concept had occupied a central position in the metaphysics of Leibniz, and is closely related to his monad in the sense that each sentient entity contains its own entire universe within it. But Leibniz' use of this concept influenced more than just the development of the vocabulary of modern physics. Leibniz was also one of the main inspirations for the important movement in philosophy known as German Idealism, and within this movement and schools influenced by it entelechy may denote a force propelling one to self-fulfillment.\n\nIn the biological vitalism of Hans Driesch, living things develop by \"entelechy\", a common purposive and organising field. Leading vitalists like Driesch argued that many of the basic problems of biology cannot be solved by a philosophy in which the organism is simply considered a machine. Vitalism and its concepts like entelechy have since been discarded as without value for scientific practice by the overwhelming majority of professional biologists. \n\nHowever, in philosophy aspects and applications of the concept of entelechy have been explored by scientifically interested philosophers and philosophically inclined scientists alike. One example was the American critic and philosopher Kenneth Burke (1897–1993) whose concept of the \"terministic screens\" illustrates his thought on the subject. Most prominent was perhaps the German quantum physicist Werner Heisenberg. He looked to the notions of potentiality and actuality in order to better understand the relationship of quantum theory to the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13650283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13650283", "title": "Ptolemy-el-Garib", "text": "Ptolemy-el-Garib\n\nPtolemy-el-Garib (Arabic, more correctly \"al-gharīb\", \"Ptolemy the foreigner,\" explained as meaning \"Ptolemy the unknown\") (fl. c300 AD) was a Hellenistic pinacographer, probably of the Peripatetic school, who wrote a \"Life of Aristotle\" notable for its catalog of Aristotle's works. This work survives in an Arabic manuscript in Istanbul.\n\nThe excerpts known prior to this discovery were collected in Ingemar Düring's \"Aristotle in the Ancient Biographical Tradition\" (Göteborg 1957), pp. 221-231.\n\nMarian Plezia has cast doubt on the idea that Ptolemy-el-Garib's \"Life\" was an important source of later Neoplatonic lives of Aristotle.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49281484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49281484", "title": "Robert Wilson (philosopher)", "text": "Robert Wilson (philosopher)\n\nRobert A. Wilson (born 1964) has been professor of philosophy at La Trobe University, after teaching previously at the University of Alberta (from 2000 to 2017), the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign (1996-2001), where he was a member of the Cognitive Science Group at the Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology, and at Queen’s University (1992-1996). \n\nWilson was born in Broken Hill, New South Wales, Australia, and grew up there and in Perth, Western Australia. He completed a BA(Hons) in Philosophy at the University of Western Australia (1985), and after working and travelling for a few years, his MA (1990) and PhD (1992) in Philosophy at Cornell University, minoring in Cognitive Studies, while a Fulbright Scholar.\n\nWilson's chief research and teaching expertise is in the philosophy of mind, cognitive science, and the philosophy of biology; he has also published on a broader range of topics outside of these areas, including disability, Locke on primary qualities, personal identity, constitution views in metaphysics, and kinship. In general, his work draws on connections between philosophy and the various sciences. He is the author or editor of six books, including Boundaries of the Mind (Cambridge, 2004) and Genes and the Agents of Life (Cambridge, 2005), and has a recently completed book in press, The Eugenic Mind Project (MIT Press, 2017).\n\nWilson was the founding Director of Philosophy for Children Alberta (2008-2015) and the principal investigator for the Living Archives on Eugenics in Western Canada project (2010-2015, see www.eugenicsarchive.ca ) a 5-year project funded by the Community-Research Alliance Program of the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (SSHRC). He was also a Professor in Educational Policy Studies at the University of Alberta from 2013 to 2015, chiefly due to his involvement in philosophy for children. In 2009, he was elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "12662478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12662478", "title": "Scaling pattern of occupancy", "text": "Scaling pattern of occupancy\n\nIn spatial ecology and macroecology, scaling pattern of occupancy (SPO), also known as the area-of-occupancy (AOO) is the way in which species distribution changes across spatial scales. In physical geography and image analysis, it is similar to the modifiable areal unit problem. Simon A. Levin (1992) states that \"the problem of relating phenomena across scales is the central problem in biology and in all of science\". Understanding the SPO is thus one central theme in ecology.\n\nThis pattern is often plotted as log-transformed grain (cell size) versus log-transformed occupancy. Kunin (1998) presented a log-log linear SPO and suggested a fractal nature for species distributions. It has since been shown to follow a logistic shape, reflecting a percolation process. Furthermore, the SPO is closely related to the intraspecific occupancy-abundance relationship. For instance, if individuals are randomly distributed in space, the number of individuals in an \"α\"-size cell follows a Poisson distribution, with the occupancy being \"P\" = 1 − exp(−\"μα\"), where \"μ\" is the density. Clearly, P in this Poisson model for randomly distributed individuals is also the SPO. Other probability distributions, such as the negative binomial distribution, can also be applied for describing the SPO and the occupancy-abundance relationship for non-randomly distributed individuals.\n\nOther occupancy-abundance models that can be used to describe the SPO includes Nachman's exponential model, Hanski and Gyllenberg's metapopulation model, He and Gaston's improved negative binomial model by applying Taylor's power law between the mean and variance of species distribution, and Hui and McGeoch's droopy-tail percolation model. One important application of the SPO in ecology is to estimate species abundance based on presence-absence data, or occupancy alone. This is appealing because obtaining presence-absence data is often cost-efficient. Using a dipswitch test consisting of 5 subtests and 15 criteria, Hui et al. confirmed that using the SPO is a robust and reliable for assemblage-scale regional abundance estimation. The other application of SPOs includes trends identification in populations, which is extremely valuable for biodiversity conservation.\n\nModels providing explanations to the observed scaling pattern of occupancy include the fractal model, the cross-scale model and the Bayesian estimation model. The fractal model can be configured by dividing the landscape into quadrats of different sizes, or bisecting into grids with special width-to-length ratio (2:1), and yields the following SPO:\n\nwhere \"D\" is the box-counting fractal dimension. If during each step a quadrat is divided into \"q\" sub-quadrats, we will find a constant portion (\"f\") of sub-quadrats is also presence in the fractal model, i.e. \"D\" = 2(1 + log \"ƒ\"/log \"q\"). Since this assumption that \"f\" is scale independent is not always the case in nature, a more general form of \"ƒ\" can be assumed, \"ƒ\" = \"q\" (\"λ\" is a constant), which yields the cross-scale model:\n\nThe Bayesian estimation model follows a different way of thinking. Instead of providing the best-fit model as above, the occupancy at different scales can be estimated by Bayesian rule based on not only the occupancy but also the spatial autocorrelation at one specific scale. For the Bayesian estimation model, Hui et al. provide the following formula to describe the SPO and join-count statistics of spatial autocorrelation:\n"}
{"id": "32024866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32024866", "title": "Sententia probabilis", "text": "Sententia probabilis\n\nIn Catholic theology, sententia probabilis refers to beliefs which are considered probable but not theologically proven. They are viewed as well-founded and in agreement with the principles of faith, but not theologically certain. These are more certain than \"opiniones toleratae\" and but less certain than \"sententia communis\". Those \"sententiae probabiles\" which are considered \"in agreement with the consciousness of the Faith of the Church\" are called sententia pia (pious opinion).\n\n"}
{"id": "57616704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57616704", "title": "Techno-globalism", "text": "Techno-globalism\n\nTechno-globalism is a social theory that aims to explain globalization using the spread of science and technology. Through the spread of science and technology, different nations and societies come together to form a more open and knowledge-based group which is characterized as \"globalized.\" Broadly speaking, techno-globalism is establishing connections between individuals or groups of individuals using shared science and technological practices. In terms of form, techno-globalism can be expressed in macro and micro scales ranging from the interconnections of national economies to individual behavioral culture.\n\nTechno-globalism as a social theory emerged in the late 1990s following the end of the Cold War. During the Cold War, technology, especially military technology, acted as a separating force between the Soviet Union and the United States. Nuclear arms race and the space race are examples of the tension between the two superpowers created by science and technology. As a result, political and social theorists on globalization saw technology as a symbol of nationalism which many theorized as techno-nationalism. However, following the Cold War, global initiatives on cooperation in scientific research and technology development shed new light on the role that science and technology can play in globalization. Massive science projects often require co-funding of different nations and, more importantly, the sharing of knowledge among different nations. These projects signal a shift from technology as competition to technology as cooperation. Techno-globalism further permeates the globe by going beyond national scale and into the realm of individual behavior. Consumerism in the 21st century led to the widespread consumption of technology products that created common behavioral and cultural patterns among individuals around the world. The rise of the internet, smartphones and social media around the world create common values and behavioral patterns in people who have different national backgrounds. This trend of globalization on an individual level is supported by techno-globalism.\n\nExamples of techno-globalism can be found in the joint efforts of nations pursuing scientific knowledge or realizing ambitious engineering projects. Large-scale scientific research and engineering projects often require fundings and manpower beyond the capacity of a single nation. As such, nations are brought together under the common goal of science and technology which affirms techno-globalism.\n\nThe International Space Station is a low-orbit space project made possible by the cooperation of 15 countries. The first part of the space station was launched into space in 1998 and other parts of the space station followed. Since the space station is made up of individual parts, each country utilizes its strength to build one part and the parts are finally assembled in space. In that respect, the International Space Station is an embodiment of techno-globalism where nations share resources and information to achieve a common goal.\n\nThe Large Hadron Collider is another example of techno-globalism at a national scale. The LHC is the world's largest and most powerful particle accelerator and was built under the cooperation of more than 100 countries. In this case, both the construction and the utilization of the facility represent techno-globalism.\n\nTechno-globalism can impact the behaviors and values of individuals through the use of technology in people's daily lives.\n\nThe MacBook Pro is a prime example of techno-globalism from a consumer standpoint. Due to the wild success of the MacBook Pro around the globe, the unibody case design and the aesthetics of the MacBook Pro is highly valued in the countries where it is sold. It is surprising that China and the U.S, for instance, two countries with drastically different cultures and art tastes have all come to appreciate the engineering of this piece of technology. The example of the MacBook Pro goes to show the common values created by technology among individuals that use it despite their diverse cultural backgrounds.\n\nDespite the many benefits that techno-globalism brings in terms of resources and cooperations, techno-globalism can pose certain challenges to the way that people deal with technology. Many existing policies regarding science and technology are inadequate to handle the fast-paced dynamics of techno-globalism due to their slow responses. Without the corresponding political infrastructure, techno-globalism would bring chaos into the field of science and technology since people would be trying to integrate parts of science inappropriately. On the other hand, techno-globalism could facilitate standardization in the science community. In the case of the LHC, scientists working at the LHC have the opportunity to work under a common setting which allows for better communication and integration of their academic works.\n"}
{"id": "8420881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8420881", "title": "The Afterlife Experiments", "text": "The Afterlife Experiments\n\nThe Afterlife Experiments (full title: The Afterlife Experiments: Breakthrough Scientific Evidence of Life After Death) is a book written by Gary Schwartz and William L. Simon, with a foreword by Deepak Chopra. The book contains four reports detailing a series of experiments that utilized mediums and sitters to investigate whether or not there is life after death.\n\nThe psychologist Ray Hyman published a detailed criticism of Schwartz's techniques, titled \"How Not to Test Mediums\". Schwartz responded with a detailed rebuttel titled \"How Not to Review Mediumship Research\", which led to Hyman publishing a response.\n"}
{"id": "1294371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1294371", "title": "Wilhelm Traugott Krug", "text": "Wilhelm Traugott Krug\n\nWilhelm Traugott Krug (22 June 1770 – 12 January 1842) was a German philosopher and writer.\n\nKrug was born at Radis in Saxony, and died at Leipzig. He studied at Wittenberg under Franz Volkmar Reinhard and Karl Gottfried Jehnichen, at Jena under Karl Leonhard Reinhold, and at Göttingen.\n\nFrom 1801 to 1804 he was professor of philosophy at Frankfurt (Oder), after which he succeeded Immanuel Kant in the chair of logic and metaphysics at the University of Königsberg. From 1809 till his death he was professor of philosophy at the University of Leipzig. He fought in the War of Liberation (1813–14) as captain of mounted chasseurs.\n\nIn philosophy his method was psychological; he attempted to explain the Ego by examining the nature of its reflection upon the facts of consciousness. Being is known to us only through its presentation in consciousness; consciousness only in its relation to Being. Both Being and Consciousness, however, are immediately known to us, as also the relation existing between them. By this Transcendental Synthesis he proposed to reconcile Realism and Idealism, and to destroy the traditional difficulty between transcendental, or pure, thought and things in themselves.\n\nKrug challenged Schelling to deduce his quill or pen from German Idealism's Philosophy of Nature. In so doing, he challenged the thinking that particular, perceptually real things could be logically known from general concepts. \n\n\"Beiträge zur Geschichte der Philos. des XIX. Jahrh.\" (1835–1837) contains criticisms of Hegel and Schelling.\n\nHe was a prolific writer on a great variety of subjects, excelling as a popularizer rather than as an original thinker. His work stimulated freedom of thought in religion and politics, and he was a firm supporter of Jewish emancipation.\n\nIn 1804, Krug married Wilhelmine von Zenge (1780-1852), the eldest daughter of a Prussian major-general. They had six children. Wilhelmine had previously been engaged to Heinrich von Kleist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56178704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56178704", "title": "Wilhelm Verwoerd", "text": "Wilhelm Verwoerd\n\nWilhelm Johannes Verwoerd (born 1964) is a South African political philosopher based at Stellenbosch University and a social activist. The grandson of Hendrik Verwoerd, the architect of the apartheid regime, Verwoerd disavowed the views for which his family is widely associated with and joined the ANC.\n\nBorn in Stellenbosch to the Verwoerd family in 1964, Wilhelm was born into the prominent \"Afrikaner\" family. (His grandfather is Hendrik Verwoerd). Initially raised in a family and environment which frowned against racial integration, further education and influence from his future wife would change his stance towards white domination and supremacy.\n\nHe holds an MA in Philosophy from Stellenbosch University in 1989, an MA in PPE from the University of Oxford and a PhD in Applied Ethics from the University of Johannesburg.\n\nVerwoerd's research focuses largely on reconciliation, forgiveness and apology - of which he has authored and co-authored articles on. He was a researcher in the Truth and Reconciliation Commission.\n\nIn 1992, Verwoerd formally joined the ANC, which drew a lot of criticism and threats from militant Afrikaners - given his family roots. He was disowned by his parents because of his change of heart upon learning of the atrocities of apartheid.\n\nVerwoerd was married to Melanie in 1987, with whom he has 2 children with. They divorced in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34785355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34785355", "title": "Yi Suhyeong", "text": "Yi Suhyeong\n\nYi Suhyeong (1435–1528), also spelled as Lee Soo-Hyung, was a Korean politician and Confucian scholar, writer, and poet in Joseon dynasty. His pen names were Dochon and Gongbukheon. After Sejo of Joseon usurped the throne and the loss of his nephew, he left politics and secluded himself away from society.\n\nHe studied at Kim Dam's school, and later married one of his teacher Kim Dam's eldest daughters. In 1450, he held an ancestral government position at 17 years old. He was succeeded by sungyorang(선교랑), junsaengseoryung(전생서령), Busajik(부사직).\n\nIn 1455, Sejo of Joseon usurped the throne of his nephew, Danjong of Joseon. Angered, Yi Suhyeong left government service and retired to a hermitage in the mountains.\n\nIn 1457, after Danjong's assassination, he mourned for 3 years for his nephew. Missing his nephew, as he had since Danjong's death, he cut himself off completely from all human contact, for the next 70 years.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2506278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2506278", "title": "Yinyang ren", "text": "Yinyang ren\n\nYinyang ren () are people (\"rén\") who are both yin or feminine and yang or masculine in approximately equal proportions.\n\nThis category of gender identity and gender role is used in Chinese society to describe some individuals whose personalities and behaviors appear to be intermediate between more ordinary masculine and feminine cases. \nOther characteristics may include elements such as assertiveness, aesthetic sensitivity, etc., as well as lack of strong discrimination between preferred sexual partners on the basis of their sex.\n\nFor a related discussion, in Chinese, see this.\n\nIn other contexts, the term \"yin-yang ren\" can refer either to intersex or transgender people.\n"}
