{"id": "56968709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56968709", "title": "2018 Atlanta cyberattack", "text": "2018 Atlanta cyberattack\n\nThe city of Atlanta, Georgia was the subject of a massive cyberattack which began in March 2018. The city recognized the attack on Thursday, March 22, 2018, and publicly acknowledged it was a ransomware attack.\n\nDue to Atlanta's national importance as a transportation and economic hub, the attack received wide attention and was notable for both the extent and duration of the service outages caused. Many city services and programs were affected by the attack, including utility, parking, and court services. City officials were forced to complete paper forms by hand.\n\nOn November 26, a grand jury indicted two Iranian hackers, Faramarz Shahi Savandi and Mohammad Mehdi Shah Mansouri, for the attack. The Department of Justice alleged that Savandi and Mansouri are part of the SamSam group; that the SamSam group is based out of Iran; and that the pair created SamSam Ransomware, the malware used in the attack. There are no affiliations with the government of Iran.\n\nLeading up to the attack, the Atlanta government was criticized for a lack of spending on upgrading its IT infrastructure, leaving multiple vulnerabilities open to attack. In fact, a January 2018 audit found 1,500 to 2,000 vulnerabilities in the city's systems, and suggested that the number of vulnerabilities had grown so large that workers grew complacent. The virus used to attack the city was the SamSam Ransomware, which differs from other ransomware in that it does not rely on phishing, but rather utilizes a brute-force attack to guess weak passwords until a match is found. It is known to target weaker IT infrastructures and servers. The ransomware has prominently been behind attacks on medical and government organizations since its discovery in 2016, with previous attacks on targets ranging from small towns such as Farmington, New Mexico to the Colorado Department of Transportation and the Erie County Medical Center. It can also bypass antivirus software. The SamSam hackers have been described as \"opportunistic\" and the Department of Justice indicted two Iranian hackers for the attack on November 26, 2018, charging that Faramarz Shahi Savandi and Mohammad Mehdi Shah Mansouri were part of the SamSam group and created SamSam Ransomware.\n\nOn March 22, at 5:40 AM, the Department of Atlanta Information Management first learned of outages on various internal and customer applications “including some applications customers use to pay bills or access court related information,” according to Richard Cox, the city’s interim Chief of Operations. Soon afterward, the city shut down many of its digital services in an attempt to control the situation, including its court system database and the wi-fi at Hartsfield–Jackson Atlanta International Airport. The city eventually identified it as a ransomware attack.\n\nThis hack was notable as it was the largest successful breach of security for a major American city by ransomware, potentially affecting up to 6 million people. Following the attack, the city of Atlanta cooperated with the FBI, Department of Homeland Security, and Secret Service and hired security firms such as SecureWorks to investigate, and many government computers were advised to stay powered off until 5 days later.\n\nThough the city declared that there was little to no evidence that personal data had been compromised, later studies show that the breach was worse than originally estimated. In June 2018, it was estimated that a third of the software programs used by the city remained offline or partially disabled. In addition, many legal documents and police dashcam video files were permanently deleted, though the police department was able to restore access to all its investigation files. For a while, residents were forced to pay their bills and forms by paper.\n\nIn response to this hack, Atlanta devoted $2.7 million to contractors in order to recover, but later estimated it would need $9.5 million.\n"}
{"id": "40124872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40124872", "title": "American College of Parliamentary Lawyers", "text": "American College of Parliamentary Lawyers\n\nThe American College of Parliamentary Lawyers (ACPL) is a professional association of lawyers from the United States and Canada.\n\nFounded in 2007, the College states that one of its purposes is \"to provide a forum for the exchange of information among experienced legal professionals for the purpose of the advancement of parliamentary law\". This organization also advocates the use of parliamentary procedure in voluntary organizations.\n\n\"Parliamentary law\" (i.e. the procedures used by deliberative assemblies to make decisions in meetings) is separate from the legal matters that lawyers are trained in. Generally, lawyers are not necessarily also parliamentarians, or experts in meeting procedures. As a result, this association was formed to connect the two fields. Only individuals who are both lawyers and parliamentarians could be members in this organization.\n\nFor its meetings, ACPL uses Robert's Rules of Order Newly Revised (RONR) to conduct its business.\n\n"}
{"id": "593437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=593437", "title": "Bora Laskin", "text": "Bora Laskin\n\nBora Laskin, (October 5, 1912 – March 26, 1984) was a Canadian lawyer, academic and judge. He served on the Supreme Court of Canada for fourteen years, including a decade as the 14th Chief Justice of Canada.\n\nLaskin was born in Fort William, Ontario (now Thunder Bay), the son of Max Laskin and Bluma Zingel. His brother, Saul Laskin, went on to become the first mayor of Thunder Bay. His other brother, Charles, was a shirt designer and manufacturer.\n\nLaskin married Peggy Tenenbaum. The couple had two children: John, who followed in his father's footsteps and became a judge at the Ontario Court of Appeal, and Barbara. His grandson (the son of his daughter) carries on his name. His nephew John B. Laskin is a judge of the Federal Court of Appeal, having previously been a faculty member of the University of Toronto Faculty of Law and a prominent commercial litigator in Toronto.\n\nLaskin was educated as a lawyer at Osgoode Hall Law School. He initially studied at the University of Toronto, earning a Bachelor of Arts in 1933. He received the degrees of Master of Arts in 1935 and earned a Bachelor of Laws from the University of Toronto in 1936.\n\nWhile at the University of Toronto, he was a member of Sigma Alpha Mu fraternity.\n\nIn 1937, he received a Master of Laws from Harvard Law School. He earned a gold medal at both the University of Toronto Law School and at Harvard Law School.\n\nDespite his superior academic record, Laskin, who was Jewish, was unable to find work at any law firm of note, because of the anti-Semitism that pervaded the English-Canadian legal profession at the time. As a result, his first job after graduating was writing headnotes (\"i.e.\", article synopses) for the Canadian Abridgement, a legal research tool.\n\nIn order to be called to the bar, it was required that he serve articles with a lawyer who was already a member of the bar. He had trouble finding a lawyer who would serve as his principal, because non-Jewish lawyers would not accept Jewish students. Through connections, he eventually found a young Jewish lawyer, Sam Gotfrid, who was willing to sign as his principal, but Gotfrid was himself only just starting out and could not provide Laskin with any work or salary. A year into his articles, Laskin found a non-Jewish lawyer, W.C. Davidson, who was willing to take him as an articling student, and he finished his articles with Davidson. In later years, Laskin would say that he articled with Davidson, not mentioning his initial start with Gotfrid.\n\nUltimately, Laskin decided to pursue his career in academia. From 1940 to 1965 he taught at the University of Toronto (except for the period 1945 - 1949 when he taught at Osgoode Hall Law School). For twenty-three years he served as associate editor of Dominion Law Reports and Canadian Criminal Cases. He also wrote \"Canadian Constitutional Law\" and many other legal texts. His interests were in labour law, constitutional law, and human rights. He was a founding member of the Canadian Civil Liberties Association.\n\nLaskin's career on the bench began in 1965 with his appointment to the Ontario Court of Appeal. While on the Court of Appeal, Laskin gave a decision in a divorce case, upholding the constitutional authority of the federal Parliament to include the right to spousal support under the Divorce Act. Laskin held that spousal support was ancillary to Parliament's constitutional jurisdiction over divorce under the \"Constitution Act\". When the Supreme Court of Canada considered the same issue three years later, it unanimously reached the same conclusion, citing Laskin's decision from the Ontario Court of Appeal.\n\nOn March 19, 1970 he was appointed by Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau to the Supreme Court, becoming the first Jewish justice to sit on that Court. Three years later, on December 27, 1973, Trudeau appointed Laskin as Chief Justice, a position he held until his death in 1984.\n\nLaskin's appointment as Chief Justice generated some controversy. He was the second-most junior justice on the Court, having served for only three years. The long-standing tradition was that on the retirement of the Chief Justice, the senior puisne justice on the Court would be appointed. Since the creation of the Court in 1875, this practice had been followed except on two occasions, in 1906 and 1924, when the senior puisne justices had been passed over. By that tradition, the appointment as Chief Justice would have gone to Justice Ronald Martland, who had been on the Court for fifteen years. When Prime Minister Trudeau appointed Laskin, it was said that Justice Martland had been given very little notice that he would be passed over, and was upset by it. The Finance Minister, John Turner, was rumoured to be furious at the departure from the traditions of the Court.\n\nLaskin was a liberal jurist who often found himself on the minority side of decisions. His specialty was labour law and constitutional law and he had a reputation as a civil libertarian.\n\nOn matters of federalism under the Constitution Act, 1867, Laskin has been considered the most aggressive supporter of the federal powers of any justice since Confederation. This made for a stark contrast with fellow Justice Jean Beetz, who was known as one of the strongest supporters of provincial powers under the Constitution.\n\nIn his earlier years on the Supreme Court, Laskin was frequently in dissent. During the 1970s, Laskin frequently joined with Justice Spence and Justice Dickson on cases involving civil liberties, often in dissent from the more conservative majority on the Court. The grouping was colloquially referred to as the \"LSD connection.\"\n\nLaskin often took a position that was later adopted by a majority of the Court. Among his most famous dissents was his opinion in \"Murdoch v. Murdoch\", where he was the sole judge who would have ruled in favour of a wife's application for an equal division of property acquired during the course of the marriage. The outcome of the case was highly controversial. It triggered reforms to matrimonial laws across the country, adopting Laskin's view of property equality between husband and wife. Years later, Laskin said that the position he took in this case was the likely cause of his promotion to Chief Justice over the more senior Ronald Martland.\n\nLaskin presided over a number of landmark constitutional cases, most notably the 1981 Patriation Reference, which considered Pierre Trudeau's attempt to have the federal government unilaterally patriate the Constitution of Canada without the consent of the provinces. The case was a consolidated appeal of three provincial references, from Quebec, Manitoba and Newfoundland. By a 7-2 division, a majority of the Court held that Parliament had the legal authority to act unilaterally. However, by a division of 6-3, the Court also held that unilateral federal action would violate a constitutional convention that had emerged since Confederation, requiring substantial provincial agreement on constitutional amendments. Laskin was one of the judges in the majority on the issue of Parliament's legal authority to act unilaterally, but was one of the three dissenting judges who would have held that there was no constitutional convention restricting Parliament's power to act unilaterally.\n\nAs a result of the decision in the Patriation Reference, Trudeau decided to begin a new round of negotiations with the provinces, which resulted in the patriation of the Constitution from Britain being agreed to by all provinces save Quebec. Historian Frederic Bastien suggests that Laskin may have violated the constitutional separation of powers by discussing the deliberations of the Court with politicians, casting doubt on the legitimacy of the decision. However, surviving participants in the Reference process do not think that the allegations, even if true, undercut the validity of the Court's decision. Other scholars said that the patriation process violated judicial independence.\n\nLaskin was in poor health the last few years of his life, and died in office on March 26, 1984, at the age of 71 from pneumonia. Two weeks before his death, on March 13, 1984, he was made a Companion of the Order of Canada.\n\nPrime Minister Trudeau offered a state funeral, but the family declined because Laskin \"liked things very simple.\" Instead, Laskin lay in state in the Great Hall of the Supreme Court building, prior to a simple funeral ceremony in Ottawa and interment at Holy Blossom Memorial Park in Toronto. His brother Saul Laskin was later buried beside him.\n\n\nBora Laskin Received Honorary Degrees from Many Canadian and International Universities, These Include\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "251386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=251386", "title": "Bounty hunter", "text": "Bounty hunter\n\nA bounty hunter is a person who captures fugitives for a bounty. The occupation, also known as bail enforcement agent, bail agent, recovery agent, bail recovery agents, or fugitive recovery agent, has historically existed in many parts of the world. However, today, it is found almost exclusively in most of the United States and its former commonwealth, the Philippines, as the practice is illegal under the laws of most other countries. Illinois, Kentucky, Oregon and Wisconsin have outlawed commercial bail bonds.\n\nIn 1873, the Supreme Court ruled that bounty hunters were a part of the U.S. law enforcement system with a decision in \"Taylor v. Taintor\":\n\nIn modern times, bounty hunters are known as bail enforcement agent or fugitive recovery agents (bail bondsmen), and carry out arrests mostly of those who have skipped bail. The term \"bounty hunting\" is neither often used nor liked by many in the profession due to its historical associations.\n\nBounty hunters are sometimes misleadingly called \"skiptracers\", where \"skiptracing\" is searching for an individual through less direct methods than active pursuit and apprehension.\n\nWhen undertaking arrest warrants, agents may wear bullet-resistant vests, badges, and other clothing bearing the inscription \"bail enforcement agent\" or similar titles. Many agents also use two-way radios to communicate with each other. Many agents arm themselves with firearms; or sometimes with less lethal weapons, such as tasers, batons, tear gas (CS gas, pepper spray) or pepper spray projectiles.\n\nIn the United States, the National Association of Fugitive Recovery Agents is the professional association representing this industry.\n\nMost bounty hunters are employed by bail bondsmen: the bounty hunter is usually paid about 18% of the total bail amount, but this commission can vary on an individual, case-by-case basis; usually depending upon the difficulty level of the assignment and the approach used to exonerate the bail bond. If the fugitive eludes bail, the bondsman, not the bounty hunter, is responsible for 100% of the total bail amount. This is a way of ensuring clients arrive at trial. As of 2003, bounty hunters claimed to catch 31,500 bail jumpers per year, about 90% of people who jump bail.\n\nBounty hunters have varying levels of authority in their duties with regard to their targets depending on which states they operate in. Barring restrictions applicable state by state, a bounty hunter may enter the fugitive's private property without a warrant in order to execute a re-arrest. A bounty hunter cannot, however, enter the property of anyone other than the fugitive without a warrant or the owner's permission.\n\nIn some states, bounty hunters do not undergo any formal training, and are generally unlicensed, only requiring sanction from a bail bondsman to operate. In other states, however, they are held to varying standards of training and license. State legal requirements are often imposed on out-of-state bounty hunters, so a fugitive could temporarily escape rearrest by entering a state in which the bail agent has limited or no jurisdiction.\n\nIn the United States legal system, the 1873 U.S. Supreme Court case \"Taylor v. Taintor\", 16 Wall (83 U.S. 366, 21 L.Ed. 287), is cited as having established that the person into whose custody an accused is remanded as part of the accuser's bail has sweeping rights to that person. Though this may have been accurate at the time the decision was reached, the portion cited was obiter dictum and has no binding precedential value.\n\nAs of 2008, four states, Illinois, Kentucky, Oregon, and Wisconsin prohibited the practice, as they have abolished commercial bail bonds and banned the commercial bail bonds industry within their borders. As of 2012, Nebraska and Maine similarly prohibit surety bail bonds. Some states such as Texas and California require a license to engage in bounty hunting while others may have no restrictions.\n\nThere have been some states that have rolled out specific laws that govern bounty hunting. For example, Minnesota says that you cannot drive a white, black, maroon, or dark green vehicle. They also outline what you can wear. The statute states that you can wear any colors that are not reserved for the police in the state. For example, The Minnesota Highway Patrol wears maroon uniforms. The city police departments along with county sheriff's and their deputies are all blue brown or green, and the Minnesota DNR is green. Therefore, a bounty hunter in the state in of Minnesota can wear any colors that are not already listed above. It is recommended that anyone looking to work in this field be knowledgeable of these laws before they hit the streets. \nThe State of Connecticut has a detailed licensing process which requires any person who wants to engage in the business as a bail enforcement agent (bounty hunter) to first obtain a professional license from the Commissioner of Public Safety; specifically detailing that \"No person shall, as surety on a bond in a criminal proceeding or as an agent of such surety, engage in the business of taking or attempting to take into custody the principal on the bond who has failed to appear in court and for whom a re-arrest warrant or capias has been issued unless such person is licensed as a bail enforcement agent\". Connecticut has strict standards which require Bail Enforcement Agents to pass an extensive background check and, while engaging in fugitive recovery operations, be uniformed, notify the local police barrack, wear a badge, and only carry licensed and approved firearms, including handguns and long guns which are permitted. Recently Connecticut State Police converted its Bail Enforcement Agent licensing unit to reflect the important role Bail Enforcement Agents play in the Connecticut criminal justice system; placing them in the newly defined Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection.\n\nSeveral schools in Connecticut have obtained certification by the Connecticut State Police to pre-license Bail Enforcement Agents in a minimum of 20 hours of criminal justice training and a minimum of eight hours of firearms training. Some of the more advanced schools offer specialized training in the area of tactical firearms to prepare BEAs for conducting dangerous recovery operations.\n\nIn Florida, a bounty hunter must obtain a \"limited surety agent\" license from the Florida Department of Financial Services, Bureau of Agent and Agency Licensing, in order to legally apprehend bail fugitives.\n\nLouisiana requires bounty hunters to wear clothing identifying them as such.\n\nA Nevada bounty hunter is referred to as a bail enforcement agent or bail enforcement solicitor. It requires a minimum 20 hours of training, passing examinations and obtaining a bail enforcement agent license by the Nevada Division of Insurance within nine months of employment as a bail agent. To acquire such license one must be at least 21 years old, a United States citizen, have a high school diploma or equivalent, undergo the extensive training and pass a state examination.\n\nA Texas bounty hunter is required to be a peace officer, Level III (armed) security officer, or a private investigator.\n\nBounty hunters may run into serious legal problems if they try to apprehend fugitives outside the United States, where laws treat the re-arrest of any fugitive by private persons as kidnapping, or the bail agent may incur the punishments of some other serious crime if local \"and\" international laws are broken by them. While the United States government generally allows the activities of bounty hunters within the United States, the governments in other sovereign nations consider them a felony.\n\nBounty hunter Duane \"Dog\" Chapman, star of the TV series \"Dog the Bounty Hunter\", was arrested in Mexico after he apprehended the multi-millionaire rapist and fugitive Andrew Luster. Chapman was subsequently released and returned to the U.S. but was later declared a fugitive by a Mexican prosecutor and was subsequently arrested in the United States to be extradited back to Mexico. Chapman has maintained that under Mexico's citizen arrest law, he and his crew acted under proper policy.\n\nDaniel Kear of Fairfax, Virginia pursued and apprehended Sidney Jaffe at a residence in Canada and returned him to Florida to face trial. Kear was extradited to Canada in 1983, and convicted of kidnapping.\n\nSeveral bounty hunters have been arrested for killing the fugitive or apprehending the wrong individuals, mistaking innocent people for fugitives.\n\nUnlike police officers, they have no legal protections against injuries to non-fugitives and few legal protections against injuries to their targets.\n\nIn a Texas case, bounty hunters Richard James and his partner DG Pearson were arrested in 2001 for felony charges during an arrest. The charges were levied by the fugitive and his family, but were later dismissed against the hunters after the fugitive's wife shot a deputy sheriff in another arrest attempt of the fugitive by the county sheriff's department. The hunters sued the fugitive and family, winning the civil suit for malicious prosecution with a judgment amount of $1.5 million.\n\nDuring the Rhodesian Bush War, cattle rustling reached epidemic proportions in the late 1970s. This was part of a twofold strategy of the guerrillas against the white minority government in Salisbury. First, it led to starvation in the Tribal Trust Lands; second, it negatively affected the economy of Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe). Because the army and the British South Africa Police were overstretched on three fronts, mercenaries were hired to confront the rustlers. They were called \"Range Detectives\", and most of them were Vietnam veterans, some of them members of The Crippled Eagles. Payment was roughly seven Rhodesian dollars a day, and a 750 Rhodesian dollar bonus for each rustler caught.\n\n"}
{"id": "2488327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2488327", "title": "Byzantinism", "text": "Byzantinism\n\nByzantinism, or Byzantism, is the political system and culture of the Byzantine Empire, and its spiritual successors, in particular, the Christian Balkan states (Greece, Bulgaria, Serbia) and Orthodox countries in Eastern Europe (Georgia, Ukraine, Belarus and most importantly, Russia). The term \"byzantinism\" itself was coined in the 19th century. The term has primarily negative associations, implying complexity and autocracy.\n\nThis negative reputation stressed the confusing complexities of the Empire's ministries and the elaborateness of its court ceremonies. Likewise, the \"Byzantine system\" also suggests a penchant for intrigue, plots and assassinations and an overall unstable political state of affairs. The term has been criticized by modern scholars for being a generalization that is not very representative of the reality of the Byzantine aristocracy and bureaucracy.\n\nThe Byzantine Empire is a modern term applied by Westerners to the Eastern Roman Empire (that survived a thousand years after the western one collapsed in 476) and thus had a complex system of aristocracy and bureaucracy which was derived from earlier Roman systems. At the apex of the pyramid stood the Emperor, sole ruler and divinely ordained, and beneath him a multitude of officials and court functionaries operated the administrative machinery of the state. A key component of state power was the prestige of the Imperial institution and its long antiquity. Ceremony and the granting of both honorific titles and valuable offices was therefore extensive and elaborate.\n\nOver the nearly fifteen hundred years of the empire's existence, different titles were adopted and discarded, and many lost or gained prestige. By the time of Heraclius in the 7th century many of the early Roman titles, grounded in the Latin language and the traditions of the old Roman republic had become obsolete in the now mostly Greek-speaking empire, although Latin survived longer in law and in the military. Heraclius formally changed the official language to Greek from Latin in 620. Titles inspired by their Greek tradition, often only rough approximation of Latin concepts, became common (i.e. \"basileus\" [βασιλεύς] instead of \"caesar\" or \"augustus\" for the title of the emperor himself). Other titles changed meaning (for example, \"Patriarch\") or were devalued with time (such as \"consul\").\n\nAmong important qualities of the Empire was also the caesaropapism, the subjugation of church to the state.\n\nThe Byzantine Empire acquired a negative reputation in the Western world as early as the Middle Ages. The creation of the Holy Roman Empire by Charlemagne in the 9th century and the East–West Schism in the 11th century made the Empire an outcast to the Western European countries following the Roman Church, and the siege and sack of Constantinopole during the Fourth Crusade in 1204 only cemented those differences. Hence the European medieval stereotypes of the people of the Byzantine Empire portrayed them as perfidious, treacherous, servile, effeminate and unwarlike.\n\nMedievalist Steven Runciman described the medieval European view of the Byzantine Empire by saying:\nCriticism of the Empire continued among historians of the 18th century and 19th century, particularly in the works of historians and philosophers influenced by The Enlightenment. Edward Gibbon, Hegel, Johann Gottfried Herder, William Lecky, Montesquieu, and Voltaire were among the many Western writers of that period who were critical of the Byzantine system.\n\nEdward Gibbon, the first English historian to write a full history of the Byzantine Empire in his \"The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\" (1776–1789), was a sharp critic of the Empire. Jacob Burckhardt, an influential 19th-century historian shared Gibbon's view:\n\nCritics pointed out that the Byzantine Empire and its successors were uninfluenced by such major shifts in Western philosophy as the Investiture Controversy, the Reformation and the Renaissance; and reduced the Byzantine political culture to caesaropapism and authoritarian political culture, described as authoritarian, despotic, and imperialistic.\n\nAfter the fall of the Byzantine Empire, critics of the Byzantine system pointed out that it has survived and \"corrupted\" other states, in particular, it has been used in the discourse of the political system, culture and society of the Russia (from the times of the Grand Duchy of Moscow through the tsardom of Russia to the Russian Empire – see also tsarist autocracy), the Soviet Union, the Ottoman Empire and the Balkan states (the former European provinces of the Ottoman Empire).\n\nModern historians point out that this negative reputation is not necessarily true, and at the very least, a very simplistic generalization. As a constructed term, Byzantinism also shares those fallacies with a closely related term, Balkanism. Angelov sums it up as follows:\n\nWhile the Byzantine Empire was commonly seen in a negative fashion, there were exceptions. Byzantium was rehabilitated in France during the Age of Absolutism, from the 17th century to the French Revolution, in the works of such individuals as the Jesuit Pierre Poussines.\n\nAs the Enlightenment swept Western Europe, French traditions found refuge in the Russian Empire. The term Byzantinism was used in a positive context by 19th-century Russian scholar Konstantin Leontiev in \"Byzantism and Slavdom\" (1875) to describe the type of society which Russian Empire needs to counter the degenerating influence of the West. Leontiev praised the Byzantine Empire and the tsarist autocracy, and a society and political system that comprises authoritative power of the monarch, devout following of the Russian Orthodox Church, the maintenance of obshchina for peasants, and sharp class division; he also criticized universal education and democracy.\n\nIn Russian political discourse, Russia is sometimes affectionately called \"Third Rome\", the second Rome being the Eastern Roman Empire, which outlived its western counterpart at Rome itself, the first Rome, by a thousand years.\n\nIn his article, \"Was There Ever Byzantinism?\" Alexander Mirkovic argued that many Western authors have created an imagined picture of Byzantium as a projection of their own anxieties.\n\nIn a modern context it can be used to denote undemocratic practices and the use of violence in political life; it has been often used in the context of South-Eastern European (Balkan) politics. The \"baggage\" of Byzantine tradition is used to explain the delays in developing democratic institutions, the preference for the strong, even autocratic governments, people's distrust of businessmen and elected politicians, and overall, to explain the difference between the West and South-East and Eastern Europe. The word \"Byzantinism\" and related, like \"Byzantine\", have acquired negative connotations in several West European languages, including the English language.\n"}
{"id": "33448333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33448333", "title": "Clarke v Hurst", "text": "Clarke v Hurst\n\nClarke v Hurst NO and Others is an important case in South African law, with significant ramifications for the legal status of euthanasia. It was heard and decided by Thirion J in the Durban and Coast Local Division on July 30, 1992, and is distinguished from \"S v Hartmann\" not only in that it was a civil rather than a criminal matter, but also by the court's divergent finding.\n\nDr Frederick Cyril Clarke was a life member of the SA Voluntary Euthanasia Society. In 1988, he suffered cardiac arrest and was reduced to a vegetative state. Dr Clarke had signed a living will, requesting of his family and physician that, in the event of there being no reasonable expectation of his recovery from an extreme physical or mental disability, he be allowed to die rather than live by artificial means. His wife duly applied to be appointed his \"curatrix personae\", with the power, even were this to result in his death, to authorise the discontinuance of his treatment.\n\nThe Attorney-General opposed the application, arguing that Mrs Clarke was effectively asking for a declaratory order to end a life, and declined to undertake not to prosecute if this should transpire.\n\nThe court determined that \"it is but right\" that Mrs Clarke should have the legal position on this matter determined by a court, \"which can view the evidence dispassionately and objectively.\" It weighed with the judge that Dr Clarke was himself a strong proponent of euthanasia; as to the question of whether or not the discontinuance of artificial feeding (and the likely resultant death) would be unlawful, Thirion had to determine whether or not it was reasonable, judged by the \"boni mores\" of society.\n\nThis question he found to be contingent on the quality of life which remained to the patient. In this regard, it was notable that, although Dr Clarke was still alive and his death was not imminent, his brain had \"permanently lost the capacity to induce a physical and mental existence at a level which qualifies as human life.\" It was clear, in light of this, that the feeding of the patient did not serve the purpose of supporting human life (as judged by the legal convictions of the society), and that \"the applicant, if appointed as curatrix, would act reasonably and would be justified in discontinuing the artificial feeding and would therefore not be acting wrongfully if she were to do so,\" even if death were to ensue.\n\nAlthough \"her conduct would not be justifiable in law on any of the grounds of justification ('regverdigingsgronde'),\" it was not necessary that Mrs Clarke's actions fit neatly into one of the established grounds of justification; rather, the concept of wrongfulness had itself to be examined. If the legal convictions of the society did not regard such actions as wrongful, they could not be wrongful in law; and it was no obstacle to this reasoning that legal convictions are very often shapted by moral convictions. \"The distinction between what is wrong and what is right,\" Thirion noted, \"cannot always be drawn according to logic. Logic does not dictate the formation of society's legal or moral convictions.\" He added that \"law is but a translation of society's fundamental values into policies and prescripts for regulating its members' conduct.\"\n\nThe application was therefore granted, and the court ordered that Mrs Clarke would not be acting wrongfully or unlawfully\n\n\n"}
{"id": "402657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=402657", "title": "Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Seals", "text": "Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Seals\n\nThe Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Seals is part of the Antarctic Treaty System. It was signed at the conclusion of a multilateral conference in London on February 11, 1972. \n\nAbbreviated as the \"Antarctic Seals\" agreement, the convention had the objective to promote and achieve the protection, scientific study, and rational use of Antarctic seals, and to maintain a satisfactory balance within the ecological system of Antarctica. It was opened for ratification on June 1, 1972 and entered into force on March 11, 1978.\n\nThe 17 parties to the convention are Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Norway, Pakistan, Poland, Russia, South Africa, United Kingdom, United States. New Zealand has signed, but not ratified the convention.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34180289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34180289", "title": "D'Anvers' Abridgment", "text": "D'Anvers' Abridgment\n\nA General Abridgment of the Common Law, alphabetically digested under proper titles is a book by Knightley D'Anvers.\n\nJ. G. Marvin said:\n\n"}
{"id": "25278650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25278650", "title": "De Havilland Law", "text": "De Havilland Law\n\nThe De Havilland Law is the informal name of California Labor Code Section 2855, a California law which prevents a court from enforcing specific performance of an exclusive personal services contract (i.e. contracts creating a non-delegable duty on the part of an individual to another party, and no other, to render certain services) beyond the term of seven \"calendar\" years from the commencement of service.\n\nThe section was first enacted as part of the new Labor Code in 1937. It was a recodification of an older statute, Civil Code Section 1980, which had been enacted as part of the original California Civil Code in 1872. The statute had originally provided for a two-year limit on specific enforcement, but was amended in 1931 to seven years.\n\nHollywood industry lawyers in the 1920s, 1930s, and 1940s took the position that an exclusive personal services contract should be treated as suspended during the periods when the artist was not actually working. Since no artist could be working every single day (that is, including holidays and weekends), this interpretation meant that two, or later seven, years of \"actual\" service would be spread over a much longer \"calendar\" period, thus extending the time during which the studio system had complete control of a young artist's career.\n\nIn response, actress Olivia de Havilland filed a lawsuit on August 23, 1943 against Warner Bros. which was backed by the Screen Actors Guild. The lawsuit resulted in a landmark decision of the California Court of Appeal for the Second District in De Havilland's favor on December 8, 1944. In a unanimous opinion signed by Justice Clement Lawrence Shinn, the three-justice panel adopted the common sense view that seven years from the commencement of service means seven \"calendar\" years. Since De Havilland had started performance under her Warner annual contract on May 5, 1936 (which had been renewed six times pursuant to its terms since then), and seven calendar years had elapsed from that date, the contract was no longer enforceable and she was free to seek projects with other studios.\n\nDe Havilland's legal victory reduced the power of the studios and extended greater creative freedom to performers. The decision was one of the most significant and far-reaching legal rulings in Hollywood. The decision came to be informally known, and is still known to this day, as the \"De Havilland law\".\n\nWhile today's film and TV actors have enjoyed the higher compensation and greater creative freedom intended by Section 2855, music artists have not. Jared Leto and Shannon Leto of the band Thirty Seconds to Mars credit the De Havilland law with resolving their music contract issue in 2009, which sets a precedent for music artists and Section 2855. In 2015, British singer, Rita Ora, also cited De Havilland Law in her complaint while seeking release from her American label. They eventually reached a settlement. \n\nJohnny Carson – Carson, then host of \"The Tonight Show\", used the De Havilland Law to break his contract with NBC and began aggressively considering a bid from rival network ABC; his use of the law, although he ultimately decided to remain with NBC, allowed him to extract major concessions from the network, including a reduced workload, increase in pay and ownership of the show.\n\nKarl Urban – In 2007, Paramount began filming \"Star Trek\", the first in a rebooted series of \"Star Trek\" feature films with an entirely new cast, and released the film in 2009. Among the new actors was Karl Urban, who played the \"Enterprise's\" Chief Medical Officer Dr. Leonard McCoy. However, Urban felt that his role as McCoy was marginalized in the 2013 film \"Star Trek Into Darkness\". He was aware that because of the De Havilland Law, he could not be contractually obligated to appear in the 2016 sequel, \"Star Trek Beyond\", and ambivalent about repeating his prior experience, entered into negotiations to appear in a different film. Despite this, he was ultimately convinced to appear in \"Beyond\" on the basis that they paid him more money.\n"}
{"id": "7893846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7893846", "title": "Death of Nura Luluyeva", "text": "Death of Nura Luluyeva\n\nNura Luluyeva () (1960–2000) was a Chechen woman who was kidnapped and murdered by a Russian death squad in 2000.\n\nIn the morning of 3 June 2000, Nura Luluyeva, an unemployed nurse and kindergarten teacher and the mother of four children (ages 6–21), was selling strawberries on Mozdokskaya Street of Grozny, the capital of Chechnya, with her cousins Markha Gakayeva (b. 1962) and Raisa Gakayeva (b. 1964). A group of armed men in ski masks suddenly raided the marketplace on top of an armoured personnel carrier with a hull number 110; their leader told a witness that he was from the FSB and some of \"their guys\" have been killed there. The servicemen detained Luluyeva along with her two cousins, two other women, and at least one other person. A local policeman, trying to stop them, got into a heated argument and was fired on before the APC drove away with the detainees. \n\nLulayeva and her cousins \"disappeared\". A search by her husband Said-Alvi Luluyev, a former Soviet-era judge from Gudermes, did not bring any results, despite him contacting authorities from different ministries at various levels, petitioning, and even personally looking for her in detention centres and prisons in Chechnya and beyond in North Caucasus. There was also no official record of any operation conducted on Mozdokskaya Street on this day. Meanwhile, the whole market was looted and destroyed in a raid by armored vehicles in November 2000, after the total of 18 Russian servicemen were reportedly either killed or kidnapped there since March of the same year.\n\nIn February 2001, eight months after the abduction and shortly after the official investigation was \"suspended for lack of information\", dead bodies of the missing women were discovered among some 60 mostly disfigured corpses uncovered from a dumping ground in an abandoned Zdorovye \"dacha\" summer house settlement located in the vicinity of Khankala, the main Russian military base in Chechnya outside Grozny. Many of the cadavers found there were blindfolded and had their arms bound behind their backs; some of the bodies were missing ears and showing signs of torture, and several were booby-trapped. \n\nAs the bodies of Nura Luluyeva and her cousins were in an advanced stage of decomposition, they could be identified only by their earrings and clothes. An autopsy of Luluyeva showed that she died from a multiple strong blows to the head with a solid blunt object at least three months before the discovery of the corpse-dumping site. Her body was then taken to be buried in her home village.\n\nOn 10 November 2006, in the case of Luluyev and Others v. Russia, the European Court of Human Rights found that Russia had violated the European Convention on Human Rights on five separate counts: right to life, right to effective investigation, prohibition of inhuman or degrading treatment (applicants), right to liberty and security, right to an effective remedy. In the judgement, the Court announced that it \"could not but conclude that Nura Luluyeva was apprehended and detained by [unidentified] state servicemen. There existed a body of evidence that attained the standard of proof \"beyond reasonable doubt\", which made it possible to hold the state authorities responsible for Nura Luluyeva's death.\" However, \"the description of the injuries found on her body by the forensic experts did not permit the Court to conclude beyond reasonable doubt that she had been tortured or otherwise ill-treated prior to her death. The Court ordered Moscow to pay nearly 70,000 euros in damages to members of her family.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2493458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2493458", "title": "Decree of Canopus", "text": "Decree of Canopus\n\nThe Decree of Canopus is a trilingual inscription in three scripts, which dates from the Ptolemaic period of Ancient Egypt. It was written in three writing systems: Egyptian hieroglyphs, demotic, and Greek, on several ancient Egyptian memorial stones, or steles. The inscription is a record of a great assembly of priests held at Canopus, Egypt, in 238 BCE. Their decree honoured Pharaoh Ptolemy III Euergetes; Queen Berenice, his wife; and Princess Berenice.\n\nIn 1866, Karl Richard Lepsius discovered at Tanis the first copy of this Decree (this copy was originally known as the 'Şân Stele'). Another copy was found in 1881 by Gaston Maspero at Kom el-Hisn in the western Nile Delta. Later on, some other fragmentary copies were found. In March 2004, while excavating at Bubastis, the German-Egyptian 'Tell Basta Project' archaeologists discovered yet another well preserved copy of the Decree.\n\nThis is the second earliest of the series of trilingual inscriptions of the \"Rosetta Stone Series\", also known as Ptolemaic Decrees. There are four such Decrees, the earliest is the Decree of Alexandria from 243 BCE, the third being the Decree of Memphis, for Ptolemy IV in 218 BCE, and the fourth, final decree, being the Memphis Decree Rosetta Stone, inscribed for Ptolemy V, in 196 BCE. Having a greater number of different hieroglyphs than the Rosetta Stone, the Canopus Stone has proved crucial in deciphering them.\n\nThe inscription touches on subjects such as military campaigns, famine relief, Egyptian religion and governmental organization in Ptolemaic Egypt. It mentions the king's donations to the temples, his support for the Apis and Mnevis cults, which enjoyed huge success in the Macedonian – Egyptian world, and the return of divine statues which had been carried off by Cambyses. It extols the king's success in quelling insurgencies of native Egyptians, operations referred to as 'keeping the peace.' It reminds the reader that during a year of low inundation, the government had remitted taxes and imported grain from abroad. It inaugurates the most accurate solar calendar known to the ancient world, with 365¼ days per year. It declares the deceased princess Berenike a goddess and creates a cult for her, with women, men, ceremonies, and special 'bread-cakes'. Lastly it orders the decree to be incised in stone or bronze in both hieroglyphs and Greek, and to be publicly displayed in the temples.\n\nThe Decree of Canopus attested the existence of the ancient city of Heracleion, which is now submerged, and only recently been excavated. The Decree informed us, in its Greek version, that a synod of priests was held in the city of\nHeracleion during the reign of King Ptolemy I.\n\nThe traditional Egyptian calendar had 365 days: twelve months of thirty days each and an additional five epagomenal days. According to the reform, the five-day \"Opening of the Year\" ceremonies would include an additional sixth day every fourth year. The reason given was that \"the rise of Sothis advances to another day in every 4 years\", so that attaching the beginning of the year to the heliacal rising of the star Sirius would keep the calendar synchronized with the seasons.\n\nThis Ptolemaic calendar reform failed, but was finally officially implemented in Egypt by Augustus in 26/25 BCE, now called the Alexandrian calendar, with a sixth epagomenal day occurring for the first time on 29 August 22 BCE. Julius Caesar had earlier implemented a 365¼ day year in Rome in 45 BCE as part of the Julian calendar.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2788239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2788239", "title": "Derivative suit", "text": "Derivative suit\n\nA shareholder derivative suit is a lawsuit brought by a shareholder on behalf of a corporation against a third party. Often, the third party is an insider of the corporation, such as an executive officer or director. Shareholder derivative suits are unique because under traditional corporate law, management is responsible for bringing and defending the corporation against suit. Shareholder derivative suits permit a shareholder to initiate a suit when management has failed to do so. Because derivative suits vary the traditional roles of management and shareholders, many jurisdictions have implemented various procedural requirements to derivative suits.\n\nUnder traditional corporate business law, shareholders are the owners of a corporation. However, they are not empowered to control the day-to-day operations of the corporation. Instead, shareholders appoint directors, and the directors in turn appoint officers or executives to manage day-to-day operations.\n\nDerivative suits permit a shareholder to bring an action in the name of the corporation against parties allegedly causing harm to the corporation. If the directors, officers, or employees of the corporation are not willing to file an action, a shareholder may first petition them to proceed. If such petition fails, the shareholder may take it upon himself to bring an action on behalf of the corporation. Any proceeds of a successful action are awarded to the corporation and not to the individual shareholders that initiate the action.\n\nIn recent years, “appraisal arbitrage” has developed as a form of shareholder litigation. Popular among hedge funds seeking to take advantage of favorable case law on valuation, such arbitrageurs buy shares in the target company of a transaction about to close and file suit claiming that the fair value of the company is higher than the ultimate price paid by the acquirer in the acquisition. The financial incentive is cashing in on a higher court-determined price plus default interest at 5% above the Federal Reserve discount rate, compounded quarterly.\n\nIn most jurisdictions, a shareholder must satisfy various requirements to prove that he has a valid standing before being allowed to proceed. The law may require the shareholder to meet qualifications such as the minimum value of the shares and the duration of the holding by the shareholder; to first make a demand on the corporate board to take action; or to post bond, or other fees in the event that he does not prevail.\n\nIn the United States, corporate law is based on state law. Although the laws of each state differ, the laws of the states such as Delaware, New York, California, and Nevada where corporations often incorporate, institute a number of barriers to derivative suits.\n\nGenerally in these states, and under the American Bar Association guidelines, the procedure of a derivative suit is as follows. First, eligible shareholders must file a demand on the board. The board may either reject, accept, or not act upon the demand. If after a period of time, days the demand has been rejected or has not been acted upon, shareholders may file suit. If the board accepts the demand, the corporation itself will file the suit. If rejected, or not acted upon, the shareholder must meet additional pleading requirements. On the requirements being met by the shareholder, the board may appoint a “special litigation committee” which may move to dismiss. If the special litigation committee makes a required showing, the case will be dismissed. If the committee fails to make a showing, the shareholder suit may proceed.\n\nThis model approach is followed to a greater or lesser degree among various states. In New York, for example, derivative suits must be brought to secure a judgment \"in [the corporation's] favor.\" Delaware has different rules in regards to demand and bond requirements too.\n\nThe famous case of \"Shaffer v. Heitner\", which ultimately reached the United States Supreme Court, originated with a shareholder derivative suit against Greyhound Lines.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, an action brought by a minority shareholder may not be upheld under the doctrine set out in \"Foss v Harbottle\" in 1843. Exceptions to the doctrine involve \"ultra vires\" and the \"fraud on minority\". According to Blair and Stout's \"Team Production Theory of Corporate Law\", the purpose of the suit is not to protect the shareholders, but to protect the corporation itself. Creditors, rather than shareholders, may bring an action, if a corporation faces insolvency.\n\nThe Companies Act 2006 provided a new procedure, but it did not reformulate the rule in \"Foss v Harbottle\". In England and Wales, the procedure slightly modified the pre-existing rules, and provided for a new preliminary stage at which a \"prima facie’’ case must be shown. In Scotland where there had been no clear rules on shareholder actions on behalf of the company, the Act sought to achieve a result similar to that in England and Wales.\n\n\nDerivative shareholder suits are extremely rare in continental Europe. The reasons probably lie within laws that prevent small shareholders from bringing lawsuits in the first place. Many European countries have company acts that legally require a minimum share in order to bring a derivative suit. Larger shareholders could bring lawsuits, however, their incentives are rather to settle the claims with the management, sometimes to the detriment of the small shareholders.\n\nIn New Zealand these can be brought under the Companies Act 1993 section 165 only with the leave of the court. It must be in the best interest of the company to have this action brought so benefits to company must outweigh the costs of taking action.\n\nIn India, derivative suits are brought under the clauses of oppression and mismanagement.\n\n"}
{"id": "3237605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3237605", "title": "Dhammasattha", "text": "Dhammasattha\n\nDhammasattha \"treatise on the law\" is the Pali name of a genre of literature found in the Indianized kingdoms of Western mainland Southeast Asia (modern Laos, Burma, Cambodia, Thailand, and Yunnan) principally written in Pali, Burmese, Mon or the Tai languages or in a bilingual \"nissaya\" or literal Pali translation (). \"Sattha\" is the Pali cognate of the Sanskrit term for instruction, learning, or treatise, śāstra. Burmese is often transliterated \"dhammathat\" and the Tai and Mon terms are typically romanized as \"thammasāt\" or \"dhammasāt\" () Dhammasattha texts are historically related to Hindu dharmaśāstra literature, although they are very significantly influenced by the Theravada Buddhist traditions and literature of Southeast Asia.\n\nThe word \"dhammathat\" is first mentioned in a Burmese inscription from 13th-century Bagan, although it is likely that dhammasattha texts were transmitted there earlier. Certain dhammasatthas claim to have been compiled during the first millennium. There are nine primary Burmese dhammathats, namely the Manu and Dhammavisala Dhammathats of the Pagan Kingdom, the Wareru Dhammathat (1270), Pasedha (1468), Dhammathat Kyaw (1581), and Pyanchi Dhammathats (1614) of the Taungoo Dynasty, and the Myingun Dhammathat (1650) of the Konbaung Dynasty.\n\nThere is an extensive tradition of dhammasattha exegesis, particularly in Myanmar. Hundreds of dhammasatth, commentaries, and related legal texts are extant in parabaik (palm-leaf manuscript) form.\n\nDhammasatths influenced a number of Southeast Asian societies prior to the colonial era in matters concerning marriage, theft, assault, slavery, debt, kingship, property, inheritance as well as other issues. In contemporary Burma, although colonial and post-colonial laws predominate, it remains acceptable practice to use dhammathat in law courts in certain areas of family and inheritance law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41038", "title": "Digital subscriber line", "text": "Digital subscriber line\n\nDigital subscriber line (DSL; originally digital subscriber loop) is a family of technologies that are used to transmit digital data over telephone lines. In telecommunications marketing, the term DSL is widely understood to mean asymmetric digital subscriber line (ADSL), the most commonly installed DSL technology, for Internet access. \n\nDSL service can be delivered simultaneously with wired telephone service on the same telephone line since DSL uses higher frequency bands for data. On the customer premises, a DSL filter on each non-DSL outlet blocks any high-frequency interference to enable simultaneous use of the voice and DSL services.\n\nThe bit rate of consumer DSL services typically ranges from 256 kbit/s to over 100 Mbit/s in the direction to the customer (downstream), depending on DSL technology, line conditions, and service-level implementation. Bit rates of 1 Gbit/s have been reached. \n\nIn ADSL, the data throughput in the upstream direction (the direction to the service provider) is lower, hence the designation of \"asymmetric\" service. In symmetric digital subscriber line (SDSL) services, the downstream and upstream data rates are equal. Researchers at Bell Labs have reached speeds over 1 Gbit/s for symmetrical broadband access services using traditional copper telephone lines. These higher speeds are lab results, however.\n\nIt was originally thought that it was not possible to operate a conventional phone line beyond low-speed limits (typically under 9600 bit/s). In the 1950s, ordinary twisted-pair telephone cable often carried four megahertz (MHz) television signals between studios, suggesting that such lines would allow transmitting many megabits per second. One such circuit in the United Kingdom ran some ten miles (16 km) between the BBC studios in Newcastle-upon-Tyne and the Pontop Pike transmitting station. It was able to give the studios a low quality cue feed but not one suitable for transmission. However, these cables had other impairments besides Gaussian noise, preventing such rates from becoming practical in the field.\n\nThe 1980s saw the development of techniques for broadband communications that allowed the limit to be greatly extended. A patent was filed in 1979 for the use of existing telephone wires for both telephones and data terminals that were connected to a remote computer via a digital data carrier system. The motivation for digital subscriber line technology was the Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) specification proposed in 1984 by the CCITT (now ITU-T) as part of Recommendation I.120, later reused as ISDN digital subscriber line (IDSL). Employees at Bellcore (now Telcordia Technologies) developed asymmetric digital subscriber line (ADSL) by placing wide-band digital signals above the existing baseband analog voice signal carried between telephone company telephone exchanges and customers on conventional twisted pair cabling facilities, and filed a patent in 1988.\n\nJoseph W. Lechleider's contribution to DSL was his insight that an asymmetric arrangement offered more than double the bandwidth capacity of symmetric DSL. This allowed Internet service providers to offer efficient service to consumers, who benefited greatly from the ability to download large amounts of data but rarely needed to upload comparable amounts. ADSL supports two modes of transport—fast channel and interleaved channel. Fast channel is preferred for streaming multimedia, where an occasional \"dropped bit\" is acceptable, but lags are less so. Interleaved channel works better for file transfers, where the delivered data must be error-free but latency (time delay) incurred by the retransmission of error-containing packets is acceptable.\n\nConsumer-oriented ADSL was designed to operate on existing lines already conditioned for Basic Rate Interface ISDN services, which itself is a digital circuit switching service (non-IP), though most incumbent local exchange carriers (ILECs) provision rate-adaptive digital subscriber line (RADSL) to work on virtually any available copper pair facility, whether conditioned for BRI or not.\nEngineers developed high speed DSL facilities such as high bit rate digital subscriber line (HDSL) and symmetric digital subscriber line (SDSL) to provision traditional Digital Signal 1 (DS1) services over standard copper pair facilities.\n\nOlder ADSL standards delivered 8 Mbit/s to the customer over about of unshielded twisted-pair copper wire. Newer variants improved these rates. Distances greater than significantly reduce the bandwidth usable on the wires, thus reducing the data rate. But ADSL loop extenders increase these distances by repeating the signal, allowing the LEC to deliver DSL speeds to any distance.\nUntil the late 1990s, the cost of digital signal processors for DSL was prohibitive. All types of DSL employ highly complex digital signal processing algorithms to overcome the inherent limitations of the existing twisted pair wires. Due to the advancements of very-large-scale integration (VLSI) technology, the cost of the equipment associated with a DSL deployment lowered significantly. The two main pieces of equipment are a digital subscriber line access multiplexer (DSLAM) at one end and a DSL modem at the other end.\n\nA DSL connection can be deployed over existing cable. Such deployment, even including equipment, is much cheaper than installing a new, high-bandwidth fiber-optic cable over the same route and distance. This is true both for ADSL and SDSL variations. The commercial success of DSL and similar technologies largely reflects the advances made in electronics over the decades that have increased performance and reduced costs even while digging trenches in the ground for new cables (copper or fiber optic) remains expensive.\n\nIn the case of ADSL, competition in Internet access caused subscription fees to drop significantly over the years, thus making ADSL more economical than dial up access. Telephone companies were pressured into moving to ADSL largely due to competition from cable companies, which use DOCSIS cable modem technology to achieve similar speeds. Demand for high bandwidth applications, such as video and file sharing, also contributed to popularize ADSL technology.\n\nEarly DSL service required a dedicated dry loop, but when the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) required ILECs to lease their lines to competing DSL service providers, shared-line DSL became available. Also known as DSL over Unbundled Network Element, this unbundling of services allows a single subscriber to receive two separate services from two separate providers on one cable pair. The DSL service provider's equipment is co-located in the same central office (telephone exchange) as that of the ILEC supplying the customer's pre-existing voice service. The subscriber's circuit is rewired to interface with hardware supplied by the ILEC which combines a DSL frequency and POTS signals on a single copper pair facility.\n\nBy 2012, some carriers in the United States reported that DSL remote terminals with fiber backhaul are replacing older ADSL systems.\n\nTelephones are connected to the telephone exchange via a local loop, which is a physical pair of wires. The local loop was originally intended mostly for the transmission of speech, encompassing an audio frequency range of 300 to 3400 hertz (voiceband or commercial bandwidth). However, as long-distance trunks were gradually converted from analog to digital operation, the idea of being able to pass data through the local loop (by utilizing frequencies above the voiceband) took hold, ultimately leading to DSL.\n\nThe local loop connecting the telephone exchange to most subscribers has the capability of carrying frequencies well beyond the 3.4 kHz upper limit of POTS. Depending on the length and quality of the loop, the upper limit can be tens of megahertz. DSL takes advantage of this unused bandwidth of the local loop by creating 4312.5 Hz wide channels starting between 10 and 100 kHz, depending on how the system is configured. Allocation of channels continues at higher and higher frequencies (up to 1.1 MHz for ADSL) until new channels are deemed unusable. Each channel is evaluated for usability in much the same way an analog modem would on a POTS connection. More usable channels equates to more available bandwidth, which is why distance and line quality are a factor (the higher frequencies used by DSL travel only short distances). The pool of usable channels is then split into two different frequency bands for upstream and downstream traffic, based on a preconfigured ratio. This segregation reduces interference. Once the channel groups have been established, the individual channels are bonded into a pair of virtual circuits, one in each direction. Like analog modems, DSL transceivers constantly monitor the quality of each channel and will add or remove them from service depending on whether they are usable. Once upstream and downstream circuits are established, a subscriber can connect to a service such as an Internet service provider or other network services, like a corporate MPLS network.\n\nThe underlying technology of transport across DSL facilities uses high-frequency sinusoidal carrier wave modulation, which is an analog signal transmission. A DSL circuit terminates at each end in a modem which modulates patterns of bits into certain high-frequency impulses for transmission to the opposing modem. Signals received from the far-end modem are demodulated to yield a corresponding bit pattern that the modem retransmits, in digital form, to its interfaced equipment, such as a computer, router, switch, etc.\n\nUnlike traditional dial-up modems, which modulate bits into signals in the 300–3400 Hz baseband (voice service), DSL modems modulate frequencies from 4000 Hz to as high as 4 MHz. This frequency band separation enables DSL service and plain old telephone service (POTS) to coexist on the same copper pair facility. On the subscriber's end of the circuit, inline low-pass DSL filters (splitters) are installed on each telephone to filter the high-frequency signals that would otherwise be heard as hiss, but pass voice frequencies. Conversely, high-pass filters already incorporated in the circuitry of DSL modems filter out voice frequencies. Although ADSL and RADSL modulations do not use the voice-frequency band, nonlinear elements in the phone could otherwise generate audible intermodulation and may impair the operation of the data modem in the absence of high-pass filters.\nBecause DSL operates above the 3.4 kHz voice limit, it cannot pass through a load coil, which is an inductive coil that is designed to counteract loss caused by shunt capacitance (capacitance between the two wires of the twisted pair). Load coils are commonly set at regular intervals in lines placed only for POTS. A DSL signal cannot pass through a properly installed and working load coil, while voice service cannot be maintained past a certain distance without such coils. Therefore, some areas that are within range for DSL service are disqualified from eligibility because of load coil placement. Because of this, phone companies endeavor to remove load coils on copper loops that can operate without them, and by conditioning other lines to avoid them through the use of fiber to the neighborhood or node (FTTN).\n\nMost residential and small-office DSL implementations reserve low frequencies for POTS, so that (with suitable filters and/or splitters) the existing voice service continues to operate independently of the DSL service. Thus POTS-based communications, including fax machines and analog modems, can share the wires with DSL. Only one DSL modem can use the subscriber line at a time. The standard way to let multiple computers share a DSL connection uses a router that establishes a connection between the DSL modem and a local Ethernet, Powerline, or Wi-Fi network on the customer's premises.\n\nThe theoretical foundations of DSL, like much of communication technology, can be traced back to Claude Shannon's seminal 1948 paper: \"A Mathematical Theory of Communication\". Generally, higher bit rate transmissions require a wider frequency band, though the ratio of bit rate to symbol rate and thus to bandwidth are not linear due to significant innovations in digital signal processing and digital modulation methods.\n\nA naked DSL (also known as standalone or dry loop DSL) is a way of providing DSL services without a PSTN (analogue telephony) service. It is useful when the customer does not need the traditional telephony voice service because voice service is received either on top of the DSL services (usually VoIP) or through another network (mobile telephony).\n\nIt is also commonly called a UNE (for unbundled network element) in the United States; in Australia it is known as a ULL (unconditioned local loop); in Belgium it is known as \"raw copper\" and in the UK it is known as Single Order GEA (SoGEA). It started making a comeback in the United States in 2004 when Qwest started offering it, closely followed by Speakeasy. As a result of AT&T's merger with SBC, and Verizon's merger with MCI, those telephone companies have an obligation to offer naked DSL to consumers.\n\nEven without the regulatory mandate, however, many ILECs offered naked DSL to consumers. The number of telephone landlines in the United States dropped from 188 million in 2000 to 115 million in 2010, while the number of cellular subscribers has grown to 277 million (as of 2010). This lack of demand for landline voice services has resulted in the expansion of naked DSL availability.\n\nNaked DSL products are also marketed in some other countries e.g., Israel, Australia, New Zealand, and Canada.\n\nOn the customer side, the DSL transceiver, or ATU-R, or more commonly known as a DSL modem, is hooked up to a phone line. The telephone company connects the other end of the line to a DSLAM, which concentrates a large number of individual DSL connections into a single box. The location of the DSLAM depends on the telco, but it cannot be located too far from the user because of attenuation between the DSLAM and the user's DSL modem. It is common for a few residential blocks to be connected to one DSLAM.\n\nThe accompanying figure is a schematic of a simple DSL connection (in blue). The right side shows a DSLAM residing in the telephone company's central office. The left side shows the customer premises equipment with an optional router. The router manages a local area network (LAN) which connects PCs and other local devices. With many service providers, the customer may opt for a modem which contains both a router and wireless access. This option (within the dashed bubble) often simplifies the connection.\n\nAt the exchange, a digital subscriber line access multiplexer (DSLAM) terminates the DSL circuits and aggregates them, where they are handed off to other networking transports. In the case of ADSL, the voice component is also separated at this step, either by a filter integrated in the DSLAM or by a specialized filtering equipment installed before it. The DSLAM terminates all connections and recovers the original digital information.\n\nThe customer end of the connection consists of a terminal adapter or \"DSL modem\". This converts data between the digital signals used by computers and the analog voltage signal of a suitable frequency range which is then applied to the phone line.\nIn some DSL variations (for example, HDSL), the terminal adapter connects directly to the computer via a serial interface, using protocols such as ethernet or V.35. In other cases (particularly ADSL), it is common for the customer equipment to be integrated with higher level functionality, such as routing, firewalling, or other application-specific hardware and software. In this case, the equipment is referred to as a gateway.\n\nMost DSL technologies require installation of appropriate filters to separate, or split, the DSL signal from the low-frequency voice signal. The separation can take place either at the demarcation point, or with filters installed at the telephone outlets inside the customer premises. Each way has its practical and economic limitations.\nWhen the DSL modem powers up it goes through a series of steps to establish connections. The actual process varies from modem to modem but generally involves the following steps:\n\nModern DSL gateways often integrate routing and other functionality. Their initialization is very similar to a PC boot up. The system image is loaded from the flash storage; the system boots, synchronizes the DSL connection and finally establishes the internet IP services and connection between the local network and the service provider, using protocols such as DHCP or PPPoE. According to \"Implementation and Applications of DSL Technology\" (2007), the PPPoE method far outweighed DHCP in terms of deployment on DSLs, and PAP was the predominant form of subscriber authentication used in such circumstances. The system image can usually be updated to correct bugs, or to add new functionality.\n\nMany DSL technologies implement an asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) layer over the low-level bitstream layer to enable the adaptation of a number of different technologies over the same link.\n\nDSL implementations may create bridged or routed networks. In a bridged configuration, the group of subscriber computers effectively connect into a single subnet. The earliest implementations used DHCP to provide network details such as the IP address to the subscriber equipment, with authentication via MAC address or an assigned host name. Later implementations often use Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) to authenticate with a user ID and password, and to provide network details (Point-to-Point Protocol over Ethernet (PPPoE) or Point-to-Point Protocol over ATM (PPPoA)).\n\nTransmission methods vary by market, region, carrier, and equipment.\n\nDSL technologies (sometimes collectively summarized as xDSL) include:\nThe line-length limitations from telephone exchange to subscriber impose severe limits on data transmission rates. Technologies such as VDSL provide very high-speed but short-range links. VDSL is used as a method of delivering \"triple play\" services (typically implemented in fiber to the curb network architectures).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2229095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2229095", "title": "Dimension stone", "text": "Dimension stone\n\nDimension stone is natural stone or rock that has been selected and finished (i.e., trimmed, cut, drilled, ground, or other) to specific sizes or shapes. Color, texture and pattern, and surface finish of the stone are also normal requirements. Another important selection criterion is durability: the time measure of the ability of dimension stone to endure and to maintain its essential and distinctive characteristics of strength, resistance to decay, and appearance.\n\nQuarries that produce dimension stone or crushed stone (used as construction aggregate) are interconvertible. Since most quarries can produce either one, a crushed stone quarry can be converted to dimension stone production. However, first the stone shattered by heavy and indiscriminate blasting must be removed. Dimension stone is separated by more precise and delicate techniques, such as diamond wire saws, diamond belt saws, burners (jet-piercers), or light and selective blasting with Primacord, a weak explosive.\n\nA variety of igneous, metamorphic, and sedimentary rocks are used as structural and decorative dimension stone. These rock types are more commonly known as granite, limestone, marble, travertine, quartz-based stone (sandstone, quartzite) and slate. Other varieties of dimension stone that are normally considered to be special minor types include alabaster (massive gypsum), soapstone (massive talc), serpentine and various products fashioned from natural stone.\n\nA variety of finishes can be applied to dimension stone to achieve diverse architectural and aesthetic effects. These finishes include, but are not limited to, the following. A polished finish gives the surface a high luster and strong reflection of incident light (almost mirror-like). A honed finish provides a smooth, satin-like (\"eggshell\"), nonreflective surface. More textured finishes include brush-hammered, sandblasted, and thermal. A brush-hammered finish, similar to a houndstooth pattern, creates a rough, but uniformly patterned surface with impact tools varying in coarseness. A sandblasted surface provides an irregular pitted surface by impacting sand or metal particles at high velocity against a stone surface. A thermal (or flamed) finish produces a textured, nonreflective surface with only a few reflections from cleavage faces, by applying a high-temperature flame. This finish may change the natural color of the stone depending on mineralogical composition, particularly with stones containing higher levels of iron.\n\nThe most easily accessible general (non-graphic) references are the latest Minerals Yearbook Chapter (production and foreign trade, with statistics), and the latest (Issue 31) Dimension Stone Advocate News (new \"building green\" developments and demand statistics); see below. The most comprehensive, graphic references are Natural Stone Database by Abraxas Verlag (www.natural-stone-database.com), \"Dimension Stones of the World, Volumes I & II\" (Marble Institute of America) and \"Natural Stones Worldwide CD\" .\n\nWhile common colors used in some of the major applications are listed below, there is an extraordinarily wide range of colours, available in thousands of patterns. These patterns are created by geological phenomena such as mineral grains, inclusions, veins, cavity fillings, blebs, and streaks. In addition, rocks and stones not normally classed as dimension stone are sometimes selected for these applications. These can include jade, agate, and jasper.\n\nStone (usually granite) countertops and bathroom vanities both involve a finished slab of stone, usually polished but sometimes with another finish (such as honed or sandblasted). Industry standard thicknesses in the United States are 3/4\" (2 cm) and 1.25\" (3 cm). Often 2 cm slabs will be laminated at the edge to create the appearance of a thicker edge profile. The slabs are cut to fit the top of the kitchen or bathroom cabinet, by measuring, templating or digital templating. Countertop slabs are commonly sawn from rough blocks of stone by reciprocating gangsaws using steel shot as abrasive. More modern technology utilizes diamond wire saws which use less water and energy. Multi-wire saws with as many as 60 wires can slab a block in less than two hours. The slabs are finished (i.e., polished, honed), then sealed with resin to fill micro-fissures and surface imperfections typically due to the loss of poorly bonded elements such as biotite. The fabricators shop cuts these slabs down to final size and finishes the edges with equipment such as hand-held routers, grinders, CNC equipment, or polishers. In 2008, concerns were raised regarding radon emissions from granite countertops; the National Safety Council states that the contributions of radon to inside air come from the soil and rock around the residence (69%), the outdoor air and the water supply (28%), and only 2.5% from all building materials-including granite countertops. A concerned homeowner can employ ASTM radon mitigation and removal techniques. The stone for countertops or vanities is usually granite, but often is marble (especially for vanity tops), and is sometimes limestone or slate. The majority of the stone for this application is produced in Brazil, Italy, and China.\nTile is a thin modular stone unit, commonly 12 in. square (30.5 cm) and 3/8 in. (10 mm) deep. Other popular sizes are 15 in. square (38 cm), 18 in. square (46 cm), and 24 in. square (61 cm); these will usually be deeper than the 12 in. square. The majority of tile has a polished finish, but other finishes such as honed are becoming more common. Almost all stone tile is mass-produced by automated tile lines to identical size, finish, and close tolerances. Exceptions include slate flooring tile and special orders: tile with odd sizes or shapes, unusual finishes, or inlay work. In summary, the automated tile line is a complicated complex of cutting and calibrating machines, honing-polishing machines, edging machines that put on flat or rounded edges, and interconnecting conveyors to move the stone from the slab input to the final tile product. The stone for tiles is most commonly marble, but often is granite, and sometimes limestone, slate, or quartz-based stone. Common colors are white and light earth colors. Much of the stone for this application is produced in Italy and China.\n\nStone monuments include tombstones, grave markers or as mausoleums. After being gangsawed into big deep (up to wide and over 6 inches deep) slabs, smaller saws or guillotines (they break the granite and make the rough edges commonly seen on monuments) shape the monuments. The fronts and backs are usually polished. The individual monuments are then carved, shaped, and further defined by hand tools and sandblasting equipment. At this time, the stone for monuments is most commonly granite, sometimes marble (as in military cemeteries), and rarely others. Granite and quartz both demonstrate good durability, especially because rain is naturally acidic. (This is a natural consequence of the carbon dioxide present in the atmosphere, which generates a weak solution of carbonic acid in rainfall; further acidification of rainfall arises from oxides of sulphur and nitrogen due to anthropogenic emissions). Long-term durability of quartz monuments can be observed at the Harpers Ferry cemetery, where an old rose quartz tombstone stands. (Limestone and sandstone were commonly chosen for monuments in the nineteenth century, but they are no widely longer used because of the rapid erosion rates due to dissolution of acid-vulnerable carbonates by acidic rainfall.) The most common monument colors for granite are gray, black, and mahogany; for marble, white is most popular. Today, the majority of the stone used in North America in this application is imported from countries such as India and China. This has depressed traditional North American monument centers such as Georgia and Quebec.\nThere are a number of smaller applications for buildings and traffic-related uses. Building components include stone used as veneer (exterior), ashlar, or other shapes. Veneer is a non load-bearing facing of stone attached to a backing of an ornamental nature, although it also protects and insulates. Ashlar is a squared block of stone, often brick-sized, for facing of walls (primarily exterior). The other shapes are rectangular blocks used for stair treads, sills, and coping (coping is sometimes nonrectangular). The shapes subject to foot traffic will usually have an abrasive finish such as honed or sandblasted. The stone is mostly limestone, but often is quartz-based stone (sandstone), or even marble or granite. Roofing slate is a thin-split shingle-sized piece of slate, and when in place forms the most permanent kind of roof; slate is also used as countertops and flooring tile. Traffic-related stone is that which is used for curbing (vehicular) and flagstone (pedestrian). Curbing is thin stone slabs used along streets or highways to maintain the integrity of sidewalks and borders. Flagstone is a shallow naturally irregular-edged slab of stone, sometimes sawed into a rectangular shape, used as paving (almost always pedestrian). For curbing, the stone is almost always granite, and for flagstone the stone is almost always quartz-based stone (sandstone or quartzite).\n\nThere are several other applications resembling flagstone in using rough dimension (or crushed) stone, usually as quarried, sometimes made smaller (i.e. by a jackhammer), often simply put in place: dry stone and riprap.\n\nThe stone used in these applications usually has to have certain properties, or meet a standard specification. The American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) has such specifications for granite, marble, limestone, quartz-based dimension stone (C616), slate (C629), travertine (C1527), and serpentine (C1526).\n\nThe major producers of dimension stone include Brazil, China, India, Italy, and Spain, and each have annual production levels of nine to over twenty-two million tons. Portugal produces 3 million tons of dimension stone each year.\n\nAccording to the USGS, 2007 U.S. dimension stone production was 1.39 million tons valued at $275 million, compared to 1.33 million tons (revised) valued at $265 million in 2006. Of these, granite production was 453,000 tons valued at $106 million in 2007 and 428,000 tons valued at $105 million in 2006, and limestone was 493,000 tons valued at $93.3 million in 2007 and 559,000 tons valued at $96.1 million in 2006. The United States is at best a mid-level dimension stone producer on the world scene; Portugal produces twice as much dimension stone annually.\n\nWorld comparison for dimension stone demand: The DSAN World Demand Index for (finished) Granite was 227 in 2006, 247 in 2007, and 249 in 2008, and the World Demand Index for (finished) Marble was 200 in 2006, 248 in 2007, and 272 in 2008. The DSAN World Demand for (finished) Granite Index showed a growth of 12% annually for the 2000-2008 period, compared to 14% annually for the 2000-2007 period, and compared to 15% annually for the 2000-2006 period. The DSAN World Demand for (finished) Marble Index showed a growth of 13.5% annually for the 2000-2008 period, compared to 14.0% annually for the 2000-2007 period, and compared to 12.5% annually for the 2000-2006 period. The indexes show world demand for granite has clearly been weakening since 2006, while the world demand for marble only weakened from 2007 to 2008. Other DSAN indexes for 2008 indicate that the 2000-2008 growth was down from the 2000-2007 growth.\n\nThe DSAN U.S. Ceramic Tile Demand Index shows a drop of 4.8% annually for the 2000-2007 period, compared to growth of 5.0% annually for the 2000-2006 period. The \"traditional\" major ceramic tile suppliers, Italy and Spain, have been losing markets to new entrants Brazil and China. The same thing has been happening with dimension stone with increasing supplies from Brazil, China and India.\n\nIn 2008, Chinese exports of granite countertops and marble tile increased from 2007, while those of Italy and Spain did not (see above, world demand) In early 2009, the Chinese Government has a hands-off policy towards its dimension stone industry.\n\nGreen building or environmentally friendly construction with natural materials, is an idea that has been around for several decades. Energy price increases and the need for energy conservation when heating or cooling buildings have recently brought it to the fore. This resulted in the formation in 1993 of the U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC), which has developed a building rating system called Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED). Educational institutions (colleges, universities, grade, and high schools) are often requiring new buildings to be green, and a few jurisdictions (i.e., some cities) have some rules promoting green building. When \"building green\", dimension stone has a big advantage over steel, concrete, glazed glass and laminated plastics, whose productions are all energy intensive and create significant air and water pollution. As an entirely natural product, dimension stone also has an advantage over synthetic/artificial stone products, as well as composite and space-age materials.\nOne LEED requirement provides that the dimension stone used in a green building be quarried within a radius of the building being constructed. This gives a clear advantage to domestic dimension stone, plus some quarried near the U.S. borders with Canada and Mexico. A current problem is how to consider stone quarried domestically, sent to China or Italy for finishing, and shipped back to be used in a project. \n\nWhen demolishing a structure, dimension stone is 100% reusable and can be salvaged for new construction, used as paving or crushed for use as aggregates. There are also \"green\" methods of stone cleaning either in development or already in use, such as removing the black gypsum crusts that form on marble and limestone by applying sulfate-reducing bacteria to the crust to gasify it, breaking up the crust for easy removal. See DSAN for updates on \"building green\" and dimension stone recycling.\n\nThe Federal Trade Commission (FTC) in America is re-examining and will most likely update its \"Green Guides\" used to regulate green advertising claims. The updating will emphasize green building, including the products it involves, such as dimension stone. When the new requirements are finalized, the FTC will go after firms that violate the new requirements, in order to establish legal precedents.\n\nThe Natural Stone Council has a library of information on building green with dimension stone, including life-cycle inventory data for each major dimension stone, giving the amount of energy, water, other inputs, and processing emissions, plus some best practice studies (see below). In addition, it has shown ways that dimension stone can contribute LEED points, such as using a light-colored dimension stone to reduce heat-island effects, using dimension stone's thermal mass to impact indoor ambient air temperature thereby increasing energy efficiency, and especially by reusing dimension stone rather sending it to the landfill.\n\nDimension stone is one of the most sustainable of the industrial minerals since it is created by separating it from the natural bedrock underlying all land on every continent. Dimension stone rates very well in terms of the criteria on the ASTM checklist for sustainability of building products: there are no toxic materials used in its processing, there are no direct greenhouse gas emissions during processing, the dust created is controlled, the water used is almost completely recycled (per OSHA/MSHA regulation), and it is a perpetual resource (virtually inexhaustible in a human time scale). Dimension stone in use can last many generations, even centuries, so the dimension stone manufacturers have not needed a product recycling program. However, there are practical qualifications to and constraints on that sustainability. The dimension stone color and pattern can be changed by weathering when it is very near the surface. The color and pattern can also be changed by proximity to an igneous rock body or by the presence of circulating groundwater charged with carbon dioxide (i.e., limestone, travertine, marble). On the other hand, changes in color and/or pattern can be positive. For example, there are at least 14 separately trade-named varieties of Carrara Marble with many patterns (or no patterns) ranging in shade from white to gray. The presence of faults or closely spaced joints can render the stone unusable. These faults and joints do not have to be at odd angles in the stone mass. Closely spaced, wrongly spaced, or nonparallel bedding planes can make the stone unusable, particularly if the bedding planes are planes of weakness. If part of the stone in one area is unusable, there will be another usable part of the stone elsewhere in the formation. A quarry is not a short-term project unless it encounters one of these constraints. Examples of big, old quarries operating for more than a century include the Barre (VT) granite quarry, the Georgia Marble quarry at Tate, several of the Carrara (Italy) marble quarries, and the Penrhyn (Wales) slate quarry. A quarry will produce dust, noise, and some water pollution, but these can be remedied without too much trouble. The landscape may also have to be restored if quarry waste is temporarily or permanently placed on adjacent land.\n\nRecycling dimension stone can occur when structures are demolished, along with recycling timber and recycling construction aggregate in the form of concrete. The material most likely to be recycled is concrete, and this represents the largest volume of recycled construction material. Not too many structures incorporate dimension stone, and even fewer of them have dimension stone worth saving. Stone recycling is usually done by specialists that monitor local demolition activity, looking for stone-containing houses, buildings, bridge abutments, and other dimension stone structures scheduled for demolition. Particularly treasured are old hand-carved stone pieces with the chisel marks still on them, local stones no longer quarried or that are quarried in a different shade of color or appearance. There is no national or regional trade in reclaimed stone, so a large storage yard is required, since the recovered stone may not be quickly sold and reused. The recycled dimension stone is used in old stone buildings being renovated (to replace deteriorated stone pieces), in fireplace mantels, benches, veneer, or for landscaping (like for retaining walls).\nRelated to stone recycling and stone reuse is the deconstruction and reconstruction of a stone building. The building is taken apart stone block by stone block and the location and orientation of each block is carefully noted. Any roofing slate and interior stone in place is catalogued and moved in the same fashion. After the blocks, slate, and other stone used have been transported to the new location, they are put back in place where and how they were originally, thus reassembling the building. This is typically very expensive and rare but valuable in terms of historic preservation.\n\nDimension stone is also reused. Buildings immediately spring to mind, but such things as the ornate stone walls, arches, stairways and balustrades alongside a boulevard can also be renovated and reused. Sometimes the old interior of the building is kept as is, after repair. Sometimes the old building is gutted, leaving only a shell or facade and the space inside reconfigured and modernized. The stone work will usually need attention too.\n\nThe old stone work may only need cleaning or sandblasting, but it may need more. Firstly, the building exterior (facade) needs to be inspected for unsafe conditions. Next, the building walls need to be inspected for water leakages. The most likely needs are mortar restoration (repointing), applying consolidants to the old stone, or replacing pieces of stone that are deteriorated (damaged) beyond the point of any repair. The repointing is the removal of existing damaged mortar from the outer portion of the joint between stone units and its replacement by new mortar matching the appearance of the old. The consolidants re-establish the original natural bonding between the stone particles that weathering has removed. Deteriorated pieces of stone work are replaced with pieces of stone that match the original as much as possible. Exterior dimension stone will often change color after exposure to weather over time. For example, Indiana Limestone will weather from a tan to an attractive light yellow. Interior dimension stone can sometimes change its shade a little over time too. For both, it may not be possible to find an exact match, even from the original quarry. Stone will often change its appearance from location to location in the same quarry. If the dimension stone renovationist is truly fortunate, the original builder put aside some spare pieces of the stone for future need.\n\nAs in every economic sector, the construction industry's purchases of materials and services creates a whole chain of processes from raw material selecting in situ, removal from the earth, usually proceeding to cutting, finishing, or processing/manufacturing, then transport, and retailing. All of these activities have significant upstream (off-site) environmental impacts, whether in terms of energy and raw resource use or emissions to air, land, or water impacting living organisms or the Earth's surface (non-organic). Life cycle assessment is a method for estimating and comparing a range of environmental performance measures (e.g. global warming, acidification potential, toxicity, ozone depletion potentials) over the full life cycle of a product, a building assembly, or a whole building. As such, it provides a comprehensive means for evaluating and comparing products rather than prescriptive measures of individual product characteristics.\n\nThe ASTM has some relevant standards, particularly a guide on environmental life cycle assessment of building materials/products (E1991) that shows how to minimize the subjectivity that commonly mars and confuses environmental decision making. In particular, this guide describes the inventory analysis phase that requires data that is suitable for its intended purpose, thus covering data quality (such as completeness, reliability, accuracy, and credibility) as well as the allocation of the data (for multiple inputs and outputs), among other things. Results have to be on a common basis to allow a statistically significant comparison of alternative building product differences in the interpretation.\n\nThe Natural Stone Council (NSC) has commissioned some life-cycle inventory data for use in life cycle assessments. Almost 90% of the effort in doing a life cycle assessment involves getting reliable data. For example, the NSC has data that the Global warming potential for granite quarrying is 100 kg of carbon dioxide equivalents and for granite processing is 500 (same units); and the Global Warming Potential for limestone quarrying is 20 kg carbon dioxide equivalents while for limestone processing it is 80 (same units). The data on energy and water use include everything back to removal of overburden in the dimension stone quarry and upstream production of energy and fuels, and forward to packaging of finished dimension stone product or slabs for shipment and transport, or to moving scrap stone to storage or reclamation and to capturing and treatment of dust and waste water. The data is then placed in an impact category (i.e. changes to air, changes to water), characterized as to the contribution of the item to the impact compared to other items, and then the impact categories are assigned weights among themselves to show their relative importance.\n\nThe Natural Stone Council has also commissioned four Best Practices. One is on water consumption, treatment, and reuse while extracting and processing dimension stone, including dust mitigation, sludge management, and maximizing water recycling. Another is on site maintenance and quarry closure, including minimizing dust, noise, vibration and keeping the operation clean and tidy, both of which help in restoring the surface upon quarry closure. A third one is on solid waste management, including overburden, damaged stone unsaleable as product, sludge deposited from waste water, spent or spilled petroleum products, or metal scrap. The fourth one is on efficiently transporting stone to be finished as products, then transporting the products to consumers by centralizing freight management, consolidating small loads, choosing appropriate trucks, balancing and securing the load, and packaging with sustainable materials.\n\nThe selector of dimension stone begins by considering stone color and appearance, and how the stone will match its surroundings. The selector has literally thousands of options to choose from, and should examine many options. In addition to many hundreds of different stones with different colors and patterns, each stone can change radically in color and appearance when a different finish is put on it. A polished finish accentuates the color and makes any pattern more vivid, and the rougher finishes (i.e. honed, thermal) lighten the color and make the patterns more subdued. With thousands of possibilities, the selector must start by looking at many stones in many different finishes, or photos of them. Such photos can be found on some dimension stone websites, and on DSAN's Architects Stone Selection Helper.\n\nIn addition to selecting a stone color and pattern, the suitability of its properties for the intended use must be considered. Stone being chosen for countertops or vanities should be nonabsorptive, resist stains, and be heat and impact resistant. Stone being used in tiles should be sealed in order to resist staining by spilled liquids. Stone being used for flooring, paving, or surfaces subject to foot or vehicular traffic ought to have a semiabrasive finish for slip resistance, such as bush-hammered or thermal. A glossy polished finish will be slick. Most flagstone surfaces are rough enough to be naturally slip-resistant.\n\nDimension stone requires some specialized methods for cleaning and maintenance. Abrasive cleaners should not be used on a polished stone finish because it will wear the polish off. Acidic cleaners can not be used on marble or limestone because it will remove (i.e. dissolve) the finish. Textured finishes (thermal, bush-hammered) can be treated with some mildly abrasive cleaners but not bleach or an acidic cleaner (if marble or limestone). Stains are another consideration; stains can be organic (food, grease, or oil) or metallic (iron, copper). Stains require some special removal techniques, such as the poultice method. A new method of cleaning stone on ancient buildings (medieval and renaissance) has been developed in Europe: sulfur-reducing bacteria are used on the black gypsum-containing crusts that form on such buildings to convert the sulfur to a gas that dissipates, thus destroying the crust while leaving the patina produced by aging on the underlying stone. This method is still in development and not yet commercially available.\n\nThe surface of a stone may be finished in a variety of ways. Below are some typical terms:\n\nCategories:\n\n"}
{"id": "4339157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4339157", "title": "Electronic Filing System", "text": "Electronic Filing System\n\nThe Electronic Filing System (or EFS) is the Singapore Judiciary's electronic platform for filing and service of documents within the litigation process. In addition, it provides the registries of the Supreme Court and the Subordinate Courts with an electronic registry and workflow system; and an electronic case file. Recent enhancements have added a module which facilitates the conduct of hearing using documents that have been electronically filed.\n\nThe EFS provides the legal profession with a rudimentary online case file from which documents can be electronically filed with the courts or served on the other parties in a case. The EFS is also the source for electronic cause book searches that are provided through the Litigation module of LawNet. EFS is set to be replaced by iELS eventually.\n\nThe Electronic Filing System (EFS) was implemented by the Singapore Judiciary to provide a platform for Law Firms (LFs) to file documents to the Courts electronically over the Internet. The EFS was specifically designed to fully exploit the electronic super highway to minimise not just the physical movement of people and paper court documents from LFs to the Courts, but also to leverage the benefits of electronic storage within the Courts: i.e. faster document filing and retrieval, eradication of the misplacement of case files, concurrent access to view the same case filed by different parties, etc.\n\nWithin the Courts, the EFS allows electronic documents to be automatically routed to the appropriate registry staff for processing. The system allows further routing within the courts e.g. for approvals by the Duty Registrar and a reply is then sent out by the Registry staff which is routed back to the originating LF. This has enabled realisations of improvements in efficiency by minimising paper flow to shorten case processing time. Fees payable by the LFs for filing documents to Court are deducted automatically by the EFS. The whole process is fast, convenient and efficient.\n\nFor the LFs, the EFS provides an electronic case file showing hearing dates and documents file by them, served on them or received from the Courts. It also provides an electronic platform for the service of documents on other LFs. The EFS also allows for faster response as well as accurate and up-to-date information. Hence, other benefits of the EFS include the speedy inspection of documents electronically and the ability to request for and receive electronic extracts of documents via the Internet. Electronic cause book searches and legal research are also available through LawNet. Lawyers can even obtain details of hearing fixtures via Short Messaging System (SMS) using their mobile phones.\n\nWithin the court room, registrars make use of the EFS to conduct hearings in chambers electronically using the EFS.\n\nThe EFS consists of the following components:\n\n\nThe EFS FE is a web based solution that LFs access from their PCs via the Internet. A LF needs to register in order to gain access. Upon registration, the LF would be issued with smart cards containing the digital certificates from the Court’s Certification Authority.\nThe FE provides LFs with an online case file through which they can view the documents which have been filed by them, served on them or replied from the Courts. Upcoming hearing dates are also pushed through the EF at the law firm level and at the case level. The FE’s File-n-Serve feature facilitates service of documents on other parties in the case with one click of the mouse.\n\nDocuments are transmitted in Portable Document Format (PDF). To file or serve a document, the LF has to fill up the appropriate online template in the FE and attach the document to be filed or served in PDF format. The entire submission may consist of one or several documents and this is digitally signed using the smart card issued upon registration in order to ensure authenticity and non-repudiation.\n\nWhen the LF files a document to the Court, the submission is actually received by the GW which then performs certain validations, computes the fees to be charged and identifies to which user department the submission is to be routed to. Replies from the Court are received by the GW and routed to the correct LF for retrieval. The GW performs the following crucial functions:\n(a) Automated validation checks when documents are filed;\n(b) Implementation of certain special rules;\n(c) Automated routing of submissions into Courts’ in-trays;\n(d) Computation of stamp and other filing fees;\n(e) Exchange of information between the Back End and the Front End.\n\nThe business logic of the courts is built into this application. It encapsulates workflow routing, document management and statistical report generation; documents are stored in a jukebox. An electronic case file allows the easy retrieval of documents; and an upcoming enhancement will collate and present information relating to a case file within a single easy to use interface.\n\nThe Hearing Module is customised to allow registrars and judges to make use of the EFS to conduct paper-less hearings in chambers. The Hearing Module pre-fetches the entire case file of hearings fixed before a registrar to the local PC to allow quick recall of documents. Dual screens are deployed to allow the viewing of the case file and minute sheets on one screen and the viewing of documents on the other. The Pack-n-Go feature allows registrars and judges to download all the documents in a case file onto a thumb drive for reading at home.\n\nThe Courts operates as an independent Certification Authority which issues digital certificates on smart cards to LFs. The Key Management System (KMS), which is central to this function, comprises the following components:\n(a) A Certificate Authority Management System used to issue and revoke digital certificates;\n(b) A Certificate Server that centrally stores the digital certificates;\n(d) A web-based Certificate Client System which LFs use to manage smart cards issued to them and to request for and receive digital certificates which are then stored in the smart cards; and\n(e) A web-based Key Generating Software which LF use to generate their private–public key pair.\n\nThe early 1990s saw a number of technological initiatives that would eventually pave the way for the development of the EFS.\n\nThe LawNet information service, which originally provided a single database of statutes for the legal profession, was launched in 1990. The operation of LawNet and other related technological developments was under the purview of the LawNet Council (the predecessor of the present LawNet Management Committee). From a basic legal research service, LawNet was eventually expanded between 1992 and 1997 into a comprehensive network of computer services for the legal sector, comprising six modules covering major areas of legal practice:\n\nA Judicial Administration computerisation programme was completed in 1994. Under this programme, a comprehensive network infrastructure was put in place to support various applications, including connectivity to external systems. An Electronic Bulletin Board was also set up to facilitate communication through electronic means as a step towards the paperless office environment.\n\nIn 1995, the first Technology Court was launched. The Technology Court featured digital recording and transcription of proceedings, as well as facilities for the multimedia presentation of evidence. A Remote Chamber Hearing System was also launched to enable members of the legal profession to have ex parte matters heard via desktop video conferencing, and a Judicial Officer’s Bulletin Board was set up as part of the incremental shift towards a paperless court system.\n\nAs the cornerstone of a new electronic paperless case management system, the Electronic Filing System (EFS) initiative was first proposed to the LawNet Council in 1995. Under the proposed EFS, law firms would be able to file their suits and submit documents through an electronic data interchange. In addition to electronic filing, the proposed EFS was to incorporate an electronic case document extract service, allow for electronic service of documents, and provide for a comprehensive electronic information service.\n\nIn April 2003, The Honourable the Chief Justice appointed an EFS Review Committee to conduct a thorough appraisal of the EFS. This review would ensure the system’s continuing relevance, in tandem with the development of technology and the evolving needs of the legal profession. The EFS Review Committee made certain recommendations for improvements to the EFS, which were accepted by The Honourable the Chief Justice.\n\nThe EFS Review Implementation Committee (ERIC) was established in August 2003 to implement the recommendations made by the EFS Review Committee. ERIC was to oversee the development of a new Electronic Litigation System to take the place of the current EFS. This system would capitalise on the experience garnered from the current EFS as well as harness projected new and improved technology for the new electronic case management system. In this regard, ERIC was to develop a Roadmap Paper charting the direction of the new Electronic Litigation System, as well as co-ordinate with the Rules Committee to review and modernise the Rules of Court.\n\nThe first project which ERIC undertook was the organisation of the Electronic Litigation Colloquium, held on 17 April 2004 at The Sentosa Spa & Resort (formerly known as The Beaufort). The aim of the colloquium was to provide a platform for the stakeholders in the EFS to get together and canvass their views and ideas as to what the new landscape for electronic litigation in Singapore should look like. Representatives from the bench, the bar, IT vendors and the InfoComm Development Authority of Singapore (IDA) were invited to the Colloquium, in order to obtain a good representation from the various stakeholders of the litigation process.\n\nSubsequently, a Select Group was set up to draft the Roadmap Paper and come up with a blueprint to pave the way for the development of the new Electronic Litigation System.\n\nIn the course of discussions, it was decided that the appropriate terminology for the new system was the “Electronic Litigation Systems” (ELS) since the interoperability of different systems would be necessary in order to cater for the myriad of new features in the ELS.\n\nThe Roadmap Paper is broadly divided into two main sections. The first section describes the functionalities that the ELS will provide. The second part addresses certain corollary issues following from the first section. The structure of the Roadmap Paper is as follows:\n\nPart I: Functionalities of the ELS\n(a) Case management for law firms;\n(b) Case management for the courts; and\n(c) Electronic hearings.\n\nPart II: Corollary considerations \n(a) Reviewing the litigation process;\n(b) Costs and business models; and\n(c) Open technical standards for integration and interoperability.\n\nFollowing the first publication of the Electronic Litigation Roadmap on 10 January 2005, there was a period of Public Consultation whereby the courts, law firms, government departments and IT vendors were invited to give their feedback on the ideas mooted in the ELS Roadmap. To this end, the ELS Roadmap Paper was published on the websites of the Supreme Court, the Subordinate Courts, the Singapore Academy of Law and LawNet.\n\nThere were a heartening number of responses, with a balanced distribution of comments from the stakeholders involved. The responses were generally supportive of the ideas that were proposed in the ELS Roadmap Paper, providing pertinent – and at times, very detailed – observations and comments on the various concepts contained therein.\n\nAt the close of the Public Consultation, the Electronic Litigation Roadmap was revised accordingly to incorporate the relevant responses received. ERIC was also reconstituted to form the ELS Committee in May 2005. It is envisaged that in the course of implementing the ELS, focus group discussions will be conducted to seek feedback on specific aspects of the ELS. At the same time, reviews of the ELS will be sought from the various stakeholders at appropriate intervals during the process of implementation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52766291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52766291", "title": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Jordan", "text": "Embassy of the State of Palestine in Jordan\n\nThe Embassy of the State of Palestine in Jordan () is the diplomatic mission of the Palestine in Jordan. It is located in Amman.\n\n"}
{"id": "36201264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36201264", "title": "European law on drug precursors", "text": "European law on drug precursors\n\nEuropean law on illicit drug precursors:\n\nThe list of 23 substances is identical to list of UN-controlled drug precursors, except for the different categorization and inclusion of stereoisomers in EU Category 1.\n\n\nThe stereoisomeric forms of the substances listed in this Category not being cathine, whenever the existence of such\nforms is possible.\n\nThe salts of the substances listed in this Category whenever the existence of such salts is possible and not being the salts\nof cathine.\n\n\nThe salts of the substances listed in this Category whenever the existence of such salts is possible.\n\n\nThe salts of the substances listed in this Category whenever the existence of such salts is possible and not being the salts\nof hydrochloric acid and sulphuric acid.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "627536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=627536", "title": "False imprisonment", "text": "False imprisonment\n\nFalse imprisonment occurs when a person is restricted in their personal movement within any area without justification or consent. Actual physical restraint is not necessary for false imprisonment to occur. It applies to private as well as governmental detention. For detention by the police, the proving of false imprisonment is sufficient to obtain a writ of habeas corpus.\n\nUnder common law, false imprisonment is both a felony and a tort.\n\nWithin the context of false imprisonment, an imprisonment occurs when a person is restrained from moving from a location or bounded area, as a result of a wrongful intentional act, such as the use of force, threat, coercion, or abuse of authority.\n\nThe following are examples of false imprisonment.\n\nEven when a person is involuntarily detained, not all acts of detention amount to false imprisonment. The law may privilege a person to detain somebody else against their will. A legally authorized detention does not constitute false imprisonment. Likewise, false imprisonment requires an intentional act and an accidental detention will not support a claim of false imprisonment.\n\nUnder United States law, police officers have the right to detain individuals based on probable cause that a crime has been committed and the individual was involved, or based on reasonable suspicion that the individual has been, is, or is about to be engaged in a criminal activity.\n\nTo prevail under a false imprisonment claim, a plaintiff must prove: (1) willful detention in a bounded area; (2) without consent; and (3) without authority of lawful arrest.(Restatement of the Law, Second, Torts)\n\nMany jurisdictions in the United States recognize the common law known as shopkeeper's privilege under which a person is allowed to detain a suspected shoplifter on store property for a reasonable period of time. The shopkeeper has cause to believe that the detainee in fact committed, or attempted to commit, theft of store property. The shopkeeper is allowed to ask the suspect to demonstrate that they have not been shoplifting. The purpose of the shopkeeper's privilege is to discover if the suspect is shoplifting and, if so, whether the shoplifted item can be reclaimed. The shopkeeper's privilege, although recognized in most jurisdictions, is not as broad a privilege as that of a police officer's. Therefore, one must pay special attention to the temporal element: the shopkeeper may only detain the suspected criminal for a relatively short period of time. This is similar to a general right in many jurisdictions, and in limited circumstances, of citizen's arrest of suspected criminals by private citizens. In those jurisdictions without the privilege, detaining someone who has not committed a crime, even if done in good faith, is false imprisonment and can result in punitive damages for the unlawful detention.\n\nThis privilege has been justified by the very practical need for some degree of protection for shopkeepers in their dealings with suspected shoplifters. Absent such privilege, a shopkeeper would be faced with the dilemma of either allowing suspects to leave without challenge or acting upon their suspicion and risk making a false arrest.\n\nIn order for a customer to be detained, the shopkeeper must:\n\nThe test of liability is not based on the store patron's guilt or innocence, but instead on the reasonableness of the store's action under the circumstances; the trier of fact usually determines whether reasonable belief is established. A guilty shoplifter can still sue for false imprisonment then if the detention was unreasonable.\n\nThe privilege for the most part is to be able to return the stolen goods. The shopkeeper may not force a confession. They do have a right to conduct a contemporaneous search of the person and the objects within that person's control.\n\nIn \"Enright v. Groves\", a woman sued a police officer for false imprisonment after being arrested for not producing her driver's license. The plaintiff was in her car when she was approached by the officer for not leashing her dog; she was arrested after being asked to produce her driver's license and failing to do so. She won her claim, despite having lost the case of not leashing her dog. The court reasoned that the officer did not have proper legal authority in arresting her, because he arrested her for not producing her driver's license (which itself was not a crime) as opposed to the dog leash violation.\n\nIn a Clark County, Indiana Circuit Court case, Destiny Hoffman was jailed for 154 days, during which \"no hearing was conducted to determine the validity of such sanction and the defendant was not represented by counsel\" according to deputy county prosecutor Michaelia Gilbert. An order by Judge Jerry Jacobi in the Clark County Circuit Court case was supposed to be a 48-hour jail stay for Hoffman, pending drug evaluation and treatment, \"until further order of the court.\" After a motion by Prosecutor Gilbert, Special Judge Steve Fleece ordered Hoffman released and said Hoffman’s incarceration was “a big screw up\".\n\nIn a Louisiana case in the United States, a pharmacist and his pharmacy were found liable by a trial court for false imprisonment. They stalled for time and instructed a patient to wait while simultaneously and without the patient's knowledge calling the police. The pharmacist was suspicious of the patient's prescription, which her doctor had called in previously. When the police arrived, they arrested the patient. While the patient was in jail, the police verified with her doctor that the prescription was authentic and that it was meant for her. After this incident, the patient sued the pharmacy and its employees. She received $20,000 damages. An appeals court reversed the judgment, because it believed the elements of false imprisonment were not met.\n\nUnder UK law, police have the right to arrest under conditions set out in PACE Code G. As a general rule, to be lawful an arrest must be supported by probable cause. An arrest may also occur if the police have a reasonable belief that an offence of felony has occurred or will occur for which the arrested person is responsible. An arrest may also occur if the identity of the person arrested is in question, such that an attempt to later hale the person to court through a writ, summons or investigation will be frustrated. Also, arrest may be lawful if the police have reason to believe that the person arrested poses an imminent risk of harm to themselves or others.\n\nThe police may also detain a person under principles of prompt investigation, for such purposes as gaining evidence or taking statements. However, the taking of fingerprints is not deemed necessary for prompt investigation except when taking fingerprints from persons present at a crime scene.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a case was brought to the High Court concerning the alleged unlawful detention of hundreds of members of the public during the May Day riots of 2001 in London, England. The police, using the tactic of \"kettling\", held a large crowd in Oxford Circus for several hours without allowing anyone to leave. Lois Austin, a peaceful protestor who had not broken the law, and Geoffrey Saxby, an innocent passer-by who was not involved in the demonstration, claimed that they were falsely imprisoned by the London Metropolitan Police and that their detention was in breach of the European Convention of Human Rights. The pair lost their court action in 2005, when the High Court ruled that the police had not acted unlawfully. An appeal against the ruling also failed in 2007. A ruling by the House of Lords declared that even in the case of an absolute right, the High Court was entitled to take the \"purpose\" of the deprivation of liberty into account before deciding if human rights law applied at all.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2195359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2195359", "title": "Fire protection engineering", "text": "Fire protection engineering\n\nFire engineering is the application of science and engineering principles to protect people, property, and their environments from the harmful and destructive effects of fire and smoke. It encompasses \"fire protection engineering\" which focuses on fire detection, suppression and mitigation and \"fire safety engineering\" which focuses on human behavior and maintaining a tenable environment for evacuation from a fire. In the United States \"fire protection engineering\" is often used to include fire safety engineering.\n\nThe discipline of fire engineering includes, but is not exclusive to:\n\n\nFire protection engineers identify risks and design safeguards that aid in preventing, controlling, and mitigating the effects of fires. Fire engineers assist architects, building owners and developers in evaluating buildings' life safety and property protection goals. Fire engineers are also employed as fire investigators, including such very large-scale cases as the analysis of the collapse of the World Trade Center. NASA uses fire engineers in its space program to help improve safety. Fire engineers are also employed to provide 3rd party review for performance based fire engineering solutions submitted in support of local building regulation applications.\n\nFire engineering's roots date back to Ancient Rome, when the Emperor Nero ordered the city to be rebuilt utilizing passive fire protection methods, such as space separation and non-combustible building materials, after a catastrophic fire. The discipline of fire engineering emerged in the early 20th century as a distinct discipline, separate from civil, mechanical and chemical engineering, in response to new fire problems posed by the Industrial Revolution. Fire protection engineers of this era concerned themselves with devising methods to protect large factories, particularly spinning mills and other manufacturing properties. Another motivation to organize the discipline, define practices and conduct research to support innovations was in response to the catastrophic conflagrations and mass urban fires that swept many major cities during the latter half of the 19th century (see city or area fires). The insurance industry also helped promote advancements in the fire engineering profession and the development of fire protection systems and equipment.\n\nIn 1903 the first degree program in fire protection engineering was initiated as the Armour Institute of Technology (later becoming part of the Illinois Institute of Technology).\n\nAs the 20th century emerged, several catastrophic fires resulted in changes to buildings codes to better protect people and property from fire. It was only in the latter half of the 20th Century that fire protection engineering emerged as a unique engineering profession. The primary reason for this emergence was the development of the “body of knowledge,” specific to the profession that occurred after 1950. Other factors contributing to the growth of the profession include the start of the Institution of Fire Engineers in 1918 in the UK, and the Society of Fire Protection Engineers in 1950 in the USA, the emergence of independent fire protection consulting engineer, and the promulgation of engineering standards for fire protection.\n\nFire engineers, like their counterparts in other engineering and scientific disciplines, undertake a formal course of education and continuing professional development to acquire and maintain their competence. This education typically includes foundation studies in mathematics, physics, chemistry, and technical writing. Professional engineering studies focus students on acquiring proficiency in material science, statics, dynamics, thermodynamics, fluid dynamics, heat transfer, engineering economics, ethics, Systems in engineering, reliability, and environmental psychology. Studies in combustion, probabilistic risk assessment or risk management, the design of fire suppression systems, the application and interpretation of model building codes, and the measurement and simulation of fire phenomena complete most curricula.\n\nNew Zealand was one of the first countries in the world to introduce performance based assessment methods into their building codes in regard to fire safety. This occurred with the introduction of their 1991 Building Act. Professor Andy Buchanan, of the University of Canterbury, established the first post graduate and only course available in New Zealand, at the time, in fire safety engineering in 1995. Applicants to the course require a minimum qualification of a bachelor's degree in engineering or bachelor's degree in a limited list of science course. Notable alumni from the university of Canterbury include Sir Ernest Rutherford, Robert (Bob) Park, Roy Kerr, Michael P. Collins, and John Britten. A master's degree in fire engineering from the University of Canterbury is recognized under the Washington Accord.\n\nIn the United States, the University of Maryland (UMD) offers the ABET-accredited B.S. degree program in Fire Protection Engineering, as well as graduate degrees and a distance M.Eng. program. Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI) offers an M.S. and a Ph.D. in Fire Protection Engineering as well as online graduate programs in this discipline (M.S. and a Graduate Certificate). , Cal Poly offers an M.S. in Fire Protection Engineering. Oklahoma State University offers an ABET-accredited B.S. in Fire Protection and Safety Engineering Technology (established in 1937), Eastern Kentucky University also offers an ABET-accredited B.S. in Fire Protection and Safety Engineering Technology, the Case School of Engineering at Case Western Reserve University offers a master's degree track in Fire Science and Engineering, and the University of Cincinnati offers an associate degree in Fire Science and a bachelor's degree in Fire and Safety Engineering Technology as distance learning options, the only university in the U.S. and Canada to hold this distinction. Other institutions, such as the University of New Haven, University of Kansas, Illinois Institute of Technology, University of California, Berkeley, Eastern Kentucky University, and the University of Texas at Austin have offered courses in Fire Protection Engineering or technology.\n\nThe practice of final fire sprinkler systems design and hydraulic calculations is commonly performed by design technicians who are often educated in-house at contracting firms throughout North America, with the objective of preparing designers for certification by testing by associations such as NICET (National Institute for Certification in Engineering Technologies). NICET certification is commonly used as a proof of competency for securing a license to design and install fire protection systems.\n\nIn Europe, the University of Edinburgh offers a degree in Fire Engineering and had its first fire research group in the 1970s. These activities are now conducted at the new BRE Centre for Fire Safety Engineering. The University of Leeds uniquely offers an MSc award in Fire \"and\" Explosion Engineering. Other European Universities active in the fire engineering are Luleå tekniska universitet, Lund University, Stord/Haugesund University College, University of Central Lancashire, University of Manchester, University of Ulster, University of Sheffield, University of Greenwich, London South Bank University, University of Wales, Newport, Letterkenny Institute of Technology in Ireland and Otto-von-Guericke-Universität Magdeburg and Bergische Universität Wuppertal in Germany, Vilnius Gediminas Technikal University in Lithuania. The University of Ulster introduced its first fire safety programmes in 1975, followed by the first MSc Programme in Fire Safety Engineering in the United Kingdom introduced in 1990. In 2005 this MSc Programme will celebrate 25 years of unbroken service to higher fire safety engineering education. In 2004 the Institute for Fire Safety Engineering and Technology at the University of Ulster FireSERT occupied its new fire safety engineering laboratories which were funded by £6 million pound Infrastructure Award. The new facilities are state of the art fire safety engineering laboratories including a large scale burn hall and a 10 megawatt calorimeter.\n\nIn Australia, Victoria University in Melbourne offers postgraduate courses in Building Fire Safety and Risk Engineering as does the University of Western Sydney. The Centre for Environmental Safety and Risk Engineering (CESARE) is a research unit under Victoria University and has facilities for research and testing of fire behaviour.\n\nSuitably qualified and experienced fire protection engineers may qualify for registration as a professional engineer. The recognition of fire protection engineering as a separate discipline varies from state to state in the United States. NCEES recognizes Fire Protection Engineering as a separate discipline and offers a PE exam subject. This test was last updated for the October 2012 exam and includes the following major topics (percentages indicate approximate weight of topic):\n\n\nFew countries outside the United States regulate the professional practice of fire protection engineering as a discipline, although they may restrict the use of the title \"engineer\" in association with its practice.\n\nThe titles \"fire engineer\" and \"fire safety engineer\" tend to be preferred outside the United States, especially in the United Kingdom and Commonwealth countries influenced by the British fire service.\n\nThe Institution of Fire Engineers is one international organization that qualifies many aspects of the training and qualifications of fire engineers and has the power to offer chartered status.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24930765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24930765", "title": "Geneva Protocol (1924)", "text": "Geneva Protocol (1924)\n\nThe Geneva Protocol for the Pacific Settlement of International Disputes was a proposal to the League of Nations presented by British Prime Minister Ramsay MacDonald and his French counterpart Édouard Herriot. It set up compulsory arbitration of disputes and created a method to determine the aggressor in international conflicts. All legal disputes between nations would be submitted to the World Court. It called for a disarmament conference in 1925.\n\nAny government that refused to comply in a dispute would be named an aggressor. Any victim of aggression was to receive immediate assistance from League members. British Conservatives condemned the proposal for fear that it would lead to conflict with the United States, which also opposed the proposal, and so it was shelved. The Geneva Protocol solved thus one problem clerverly (\"i.e.\" by providing that any State that resorted to war without first submitting to the international dispute settlement machinery was an aggressor). But in solving this problem, the Protocol created a new one: the enforcement mechanism was drawn on the League of Nations' mechanism (\"i.e.\" Articles 10 & 16 Versailles Treaty) thus leaving war a perfectly legal response for those States that had not joined the League. Moreover, by providing for financial and commercial sanctions, Parties to Protocol might be required to infringe upon their neutral commitments since they were legally obliged to impose sanctions against an aggressor.\n\nThe Protocol envisaged wide-ranging regulations to bring about general disarmament, effective international security and the compulsory arbitration of disputes. In the Geneva Protocol the member states would declare themselves “ready to consent to important limitations of their sovereignty in favor of the League of Nations” (Wehberg). After preliminary approval on 2 October 1924 by all the 47 member states of the League of Nations at the 5th General Assembly, however, it was not ratified by Great Britain the following year under the newly elected government of Stanley Baldwin, with Austen Chamberlain as Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs (from 1924 to 1929). The Protocol subsequently failed to materialize.\n\n (A book about the agreement by David Hunter Miller)\n\n"}
{"id": "25537597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25537597", "title": "Geneva Securities Convention", "text": "Geneva Securities Convention\n\nThe Unidroit convention on substantive rules for intermediated securities, also known as the Geneva Securities Convention, was adopted on 9 October 2009. So far (26 February 2012), it has been signed by only one of the 40 negotiating States (Bangladesh). The adoption of the official commentary is forecasted by December 2010.\n\nThis convention adopted under the aegis of the International Institute for the Unification of Private Law (Unidroit) complements the \"Hague Securities Convention\" adopted on 17 January 2002 by the Hague Conference on Private International Law, which has so far been signed and ratified by Switzerland and Mauritius.\n\nTheir common American inspiration, although partially based on some of the most free-trade EU law instruments, explains the reluctance of institutions and Member States of the European Union to sign and ratify these conventions which are found guilty of not having taken enough into account the lessons drawn from the financial crisis of September 2008. If their signature and their ratification were to be limited to a very small number of contracting States, both conventions would probably start a new career as \"model laws\".\n\nEmerging countries as well as European Countries that would transpose such model laws into their own legislation would then turn their traditional civilian law approach based on ownership to a US inspired contractual approach of the holding of securities.\n\nThe two ultimate issues raised by such a transposition of Unidroit into internal legislation would be (1) whether the investors in securities will still be allowed to count in their balance sheet the securities that they have purchased as their own assets (Lehman case), and (2) whether these investors will still have, in case their depository or its subdepository becomes insolvent, the possibility to rivindicate these securities as their own against the administrative receiver (Madoff case).\n\nAs for the Hague Securities Convention, the Geneva Securities Convention concerns only securities that are not traded under a paper form. These securities, sometimes called \"dematerialised securities\", constitute in many States, more than 99% of the securities issued by listed companies on the so-called \"regulated markets\".\n\nThe move towards \"dematerialization\" started partially in the United States in the late sixties, and has been generalised in France during the eighties, followed by the rest of Europe during the years 2000. Today, only the United States and the United Kingdom, due to more ancient and more extended infrastructures, maintain a substantial minority of securities under a paper form. The dematerialisation of securities incurs that most securities, even though they are sometimes characterised as \"bearer securities\", do not take any more the form of paper forms held at home by the investor or deposited in a vault with a bank. Instead of this, these securities take the form of a credit, that is to say a simple book entry written on an account statement characterised as \"securities account\".\n\nThese securities accounts may be opened:\n\nThe Unidroit convention focuses on the harmonisation of the sole rules governing \"substantive rights\", as opposed to \"intrinsic rights\".\n\nThis distinction characterises \"intrinsic rights\" as the rights stemming from the issue of the security (voting rights, perception of dividends, ... as provided under company law), whereas \"substantive rights\", are characterised as the rights resulting from the incorporation of the latter intrinsic rights in the securities (right to dispose and to acquire without the consent of the other shareholders or bondholders): these so-called \"substantive rights\" are closely linked to the \"rights in rem\", which itself pertains to financial law, and, if not, to civil law. Making it short, \"intrinsic rights\" focus the content, whereas \"substantive rights\" focus on the external envelop constituted by the security. The Geneva Securities Convention, is thus limited to the external aspect of the security, that is to say the way securities are handled, in particular in case of acquisition (purchase, securities borrowing, receiving a collateral on securities) and in case of disposition (sell, security lending, constitution of a collateral on the security).\n\nThe underlying idea is that, while \"intrinsic law\" is intangible, since it is tributary to the legislation under which the issuer is incorporated, \"substantive law\" is, on the contrary, quite volatile, since it is subject to the place where the security is localised and/or traded. This distinction is ancient and draws back to the time where foreign investors used to repatriate paper securities subscribed with issuers incorporated under a different constituency. The title transfer of these securities (whether as a final transfer, or as a collateral) outside their constituency of origin could therefore be submitted to a law different from the law of the issuer: either the law convened by the parties (lex contractus), or, more often, the law of the place where the securities where located at the time of the transfer (lex rei sitae). Such distinction between \"intrinsic rights\" subject to issuer law and \"substantive rights\" subject either to the \"lex contractus\" or to the \"lex rei sitae\", is still valid in the context of dematerialization of securities and has been undertaken in the Hague Securities Convention concerning conflicts of laws, which in particular, provides for a \"lex contractus\" solution.\n\nThus, Unidroit has chosen to harmonise only a part of the \"substantive law\" on securities. Indeed, certain proprietary aspects concerning securities are governed in too different ways by the negotiating states. This is in particular the case of what is considered to be the \"heart of proprietary law\", that is to say the question whether an investor that has \"deposited\" a security with an intermediary continues to exercise on such deposited security a right \"in rem\" or if its right is transformed, as from the deposit, into a simple claim. Such distinction, academic based more than case law-based, is not so important in usual times, but becomes crucial when an insolvency procedure is open against the intermediary. In countries where the first interpretation prevails, the investor shall dispose of a right to \"rivindicate\" (claim as one's own) which will allow him a speedy recover of the securities. In countries where the second interpretation prevails (the US and, to a certain extent the recourse to trust deposits in common law countries), the investor would only dispose of a right of claim, that will oblige him, except when the contrary is specified, to share with other creditors of the insolvent intermediary the product of the winding up of the intermediary in prorate of the value of the security.\n\nThis second interpretation does not comfort the investor, even when it is backed by experienced lawyers (see case of Banco Santander's securities deposited with Lehman Brothers). Although one is not aware of any case law precedent where a common law court pushed this interpretation until its ultimate consequence, Unidroit has chosen to remain neutral concerning any characterisation of the ownership regime. This neutral approach is defined by Unidroit as the \"functional approach\", since it focuses only on certain functions of the \"ownership regime\", in opposition to the \"conceptual approach\" which covers all proprietary aspects.\n\nAccordingly, the Unidroit Convention tackles only matters located at the periphery of the right of ownership: these matters are four:\n\n\nThe rights of the investor with respect to the intermediary retained\nby the Unidroit Convention are three:\n\nThese rights of the investor constitute an enforceable minimum between the signatory States, which could be enriched by national provisions, covering, for example, certain aspects of the core of the arrangement of property of the securities, such as the right to \"rivindicate\" the securities in the event of bankruptcy of the intermediary.\n\nThey are subject to the principle of \"visibility\" and are three:\n\nMoreover, this limitation of the registration methods is supplemented by rules limiting the possibilities of reversal of these book entries even in the event of bankruptcy (\"effectiveness\").\nThe aim of this harmonisation of the registration methods is to create a bridge between European directive 98/26 on payment and securities settlement systems and the less integrated practices of non-European countries. Indeed, the directive 98/26 introduces since 1998, concepts very close to the concepts of book-entries(\"entry in the system\"), of limitation of reversals (\"irrevocability\") and of effectiveness (\"finality\").\n\nThe Unidroit Convention envisages a number of obligations of the intermediary consisting in particular in the obligation for the intermediary to reflect with its own intermediary as many securities of the same issue, as it has credited in its own books either to the benefit of its customers or for itself. This obligation of exact \"reporting\" exact, also known under the name of \"control of integrity\" is intended to limit the risks of\nartificial creation of securities by simple erroneous entries.\n\nIndeed, except rare exceptions, any chain of dematerialised securities contains at least four degrees: (1) the issuer, (2) the Central Securities Depository of the issuer (\"CSD\"), (3) the final intermediary and (4) the investor. In each subscription of a new security, each one of these actors forwards the security to the immediate lower level by a debit of its account and a credit of the account of its correspondent.\n\nWithin a cross-border framework, i.e. when the security is issued by an issuer under a different law than of the law of the residence of the investor, additional levels interpose between the CSD and the final intermediary. According to their position in the chain, these additional intermediaries can be described respectively as \"home custodian\" (intermediary of the same nationality than the CSD of the issuer), the \"regional custodian\" (intermediary specialised in shunting between \"home custodian\" and \"global custodian\") and finally the \"global custodian\", the latter generally confounded with the final intermediary. This downward process related to the subscription requires, an exact replication of the debits and of the credits of the securities between each link of the intermediation chain. In other words, whenever an intermediary credits the account of its customer, it must itself ask to its own intermediary that it has accordingly debited its own account opened with it.\n\nThis obligation \"of integrity\" also applies to the horizontal registration processes, when the security is yielded on the secondary market or, to the ascending processes, when the security is sub-deposited by the final intermediary with another intermediary. Indeed, after having credited the account with its customer/ final investor at the time of the acquisition of the security, the final intermediary (\"global custodian\") can, if its customer permits it, \"sub-deposit\" the security to an intermediary specialised in the optimum management of the category securities in question. This latter profession is known under the name of \"prime broker\". Here too, the obligation of \"integrity \"or of\" \"exact reporting\" of the debits and of the credits applies to each level of the holding chain of the securities, in such manner that no security can be credited at the same time on two different accounts.\n\nThis obligation of \"integrity\" imposed by Unidroit constitutes a minimum which, can be enriched in the jurisdiction of each signatory State, by more complete provisions, such as the obligation of simultaneous debit and credit for in each link of the holding chain or the obligation of centralised \"reporting\" enabling the CSD of the issuer to be kept informed of any debit and credit and to proceed regularly \"reconciliations\" in order to check that there are no more securities in movement than securities actually issued (function known under the\nname of \"control of waterproofness of the issuance\" or \"notary function\").\n\nThese provisions aim to allow recognition between all the signatory States of the two main collateralisation methods applicable to securities: on the one hand, the \"title transfer guarantees\" (such as \"repurchase agreement\" or \"buy to sell back\") and on the other hand, \"hypothecation guarantees\" \"such as \"pledge\" of securities, and to a certain extent \"security lending\". Furthermore, these provisions impose the signatory States to allow their constitution and their execution in a simplified form. These provisions take as a starting point the European directive 2002/47 on financial securities (Financial collateral Directive or FCD) and constitute a kind of bridge between European law and the law of other countries in the world.\n\nThe critics addressed to the Unidroit Convention stem mainly from the inner circle of the negotiators of this Convention. Like all the diplomatic conferences of Unidroit, negotiators were composed of delegations from the participating States as well as of non-governmental organisations. One could thus observe during the \"diplomatic\" conferences of 2008 and of 2009 a strong mobilisation of the Anglo-Saxon delegations for a \"functional-contractual\" approach and conversely a mobilisation of several Member States of the European Union for a \"functional-systemic\" approach (France, Germany, Italy and Spain). Switzerland and the European Commission, for their part, contributed to facilitating the adoption of a compromise text. The final version of the Unidroit Convention gives thus seemingly reason to the partisans of the systemic-functional approach, while making prevail, in practice, the functional-contractual approach supported by the Anglo-Saxon negotiators.\n\nThe functional approach led by Unidroit supposed total neutrality with respect to property rights. However, insofar as property right concerning securities no longer exists strictly speaking in the United States, not referring to property rights in the Unidroit convention is equivalent to referring to the contractual rights that have substituted to it in the United States.\n\nThe ownership aspects concerning securities are governed in the United States by Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code (UCC). This Article 8, actually a text of about thirty pages, has undergone an important recasting in 1994. Since 1994, Article 8 of the UCC considers that the majority of the dematerialised securities that are registered on an account with intermediaries are only reflections of their respective initial issue registered by the two American central securities depositories, respectively the Depository Trust Company (DTC) for the securities issued by corporates and the Federal reserve for the securities issued by the Treasury Department. In this centralised system, the title transfer of the securities does not take place at the time of the registration on the account of the investor, but within the systems managed by the DTC and/or by the Federal reserve. This centralisation would not be shocking if it were also accompanied by a centralised register of the investors/owners of the securities, like what is done today in Sweden and in Finland(so-called \"transparent systems\"). But the DTC and the FED hold no individual register of the transfers of property, so that the possibility for an investor of proving the property of its securities relies entirely on the good replication of the transfer recorded by the DTC and FED at the lower tiers of the holding chain of the securities.\n\nEach one of these links is composed respectively of an account provider (or intermediary) and of an account holder the latter being itself, except for the final investor, account provider of another account holder located at the lower link. The rights created through these links, are purely contractual claims: these rights are of two kinds:\n\n- for the links where the account holder is itself an account provider at a lower tier, the right on the security during the time where it is credited there is characterised as a \"securities entitlement\", which is an \"ad hoc\" concept invented in 1994: i.e. designating a claim that will enable the account holder to take part to a prorate distribution in the event of bankruptcy of its account provider.\n\n- For the last link of the chain, in which the account holder is at the same time the final investor, its \"security entitlement\" is enriched by the \"intrinsic\" rights defined by the issuer: right to receive dividends or interests and, possibly, right to take part in the general meetings, when that was laid down in the account agreement concluded with the account provider. The combination of these reduced substantive rights and of these variable intrinsic rights is characterised by article 8 of the UCC as a \"beneficial interest\".\n\nThis decomposition of the rights organised by Article 8 of the UCC results in preventing the investor to rivindicate the security in case of bankruptcy of the account provider, that is to say the possibility to claim the security as its own asset, without being obliged to share it at its prorate value with the other creditors of the account provider. As a consequence, it also prevents the investor, to assert its securities at the upper level of the holding chain, either up to the DTC or up to a sub-custodian. Such a \"security entitlement\", unlike a normal ownership right, is no longer enforceable \"erga omnes\" to any person supposed to have the security in its custody. The \"security entitlement\" is a mere relative right, therefore a contractual right. Furthermore, this re-characterisation of the proprietary right into a simple contractual right enables the account provider, to \"re-use\" the security without necessarily being obliged to ask for the authorisation of the investor, in particular within the framework of temporary operations such as security lending, option to repurchase, buy to sell back or repurchase agreement. Last, but not least, it stumps the distinction between the downward holding chain which traces the way in which the security was subscribed by the investor and the horizontal and/or ascending chains which trace the way in which the security has been transferred or sub-deposited.\n\nThe UK law on securities recognises, as a matter of principle, the property of the final investor on all the \"substantive rights\" pertaining to a security. Nevertheless, the generalised practice of characterising the deposit as a \"trust\" at every tier of the holding chain prevents the holder of an account maintained by a British intermediary characterised as \"trustee\" to assert its securities at a level upper to its account provider. In the latter case the beneficiary of the trust agreement, becomes itself a \"beneficial owner\" with no possibility to reflect this ownership in its balance sheet. This situation leads in practice to the same effects as the \"contractualisation\" of the \"substantive\" rights incurred in the US by Article 8 of the UCC. Accordingly, the United Kingdom and most other countries of Common law felt no difficulty of being brought into line with the American contractual approach.\n\nTo summarise, by being based exclusively on the binomial \"account holder\"/account provider\", and while forbidding the holder of the account to rivindicate the security at a higher tier of the holding chain, even where the latter would be \"a sub-custodian\" of its own \"account provider\", the Unidroit Convention makes the American contractual approach prevail and does not respect the principle of neutrality which had fostered the choice of the functional approach.\n\nThe Unidroit convention states, in its preamble, the principle of neutrality with respect to company law. Several negotiating States had in particular asked:\n\n\nThese countries won the case on certain aspects of the first request, with the last sentence of Article 29.1 stipulating, in a sibylline way, that signatory States are not required to compel their issuers to make sure \"that all such securities be issued on terms that permit them to be held through intermediaries\". Nevertheless, for the remainder, signatory States will have to compel their transmitters to recognise as intrinsic right holders, persons which, under the law of the issuer, would have been regarded as shareholders or bondholders.\n\nThus, the \"contractualisation\" of substantive law, while making it possible for the legislation of the intermediaries to regard the latter as holders of a \"secured interest\" accompanied by certain rights such as the right to vote, permits intermediaries to take part in the shareholders or bondholders meetings without the express consent of the investor. Admittedly, in practice, the US legislation envisages procedures enabling the genuine investor to obtain a \"mandate\" (\"proxy\") from their respective final intermediary in order to exercise the rights to vote on behalf of the latter. Nevertheless, the international recognition of such a US practice consisting in reversing the burden of the proof of the \"titularity\" of the voting rights has a considerable impact on the actual exercise of the voting rights in General meetings of large non US issuers that have recently broaden their capital to foreign investors. The States that will sign the Unidroit convention will thus facilitate the control of their national issuers by intermediaries incorporated under US law.\n\nThe Unidroit convention states, in its preamble, the principle of neutrality with respect to the bankruptcy law. The majority of the negotiating States asked, in particular, that the provisions concerning book-entry securities do not call into question the rank of guarantees constituted on securities in the event of an insolvency affecting an account provider.\n\nSignatory States should be able to determine the rank of the guarantees, which is an essential element of differentiation of the various insolvency laws in the World. But the \"contractualisation\" of the substantive law of securities incurred by the Unidroit convention results, within the context of a bankruptcy affecting the constituent of a Guarantee, in making ineffective \"title transfer guarantees\", which, so far, in the countries, where these are recognised, escape the perimeter of the bankruptcy of their constituent. This situation is all the more paradoxical that a chapter of the Unidroit Convention, inspired by the European Directive 2002/47 on financial securities (FCD), compels the signatory States to recognise \"title transfer guarantees\". This contradiction between the provisions concerning the book-entries and the methods of constitution of guarantees shows the limits of the \"contractual-functional\" approach.\n\nThe so-called \"functional\" approach which was the principal factor in the Unidroit work from the beginning of the 2000s presents the merit having clarified the concepts related to intermediated stockholding.\n\nIn particular, the functional approach made it possible to refine the distinction between \"intrinsic right\" (right of the content) and \"substantive right\" (right of the container). The functional approach also made it possible to outline, inside \"substantive right\", a distinction between \"right of book-entries\" and \"property right\" (or \"rights in rem\"). However, while voluntarily ruling out the aspects relating to property rights, the authors of the Unidroit Convention did not content themselves to draft a convention limited to the sole book-entry aspects. Contractualising the relationship between account holders and account providers, while discarding any possibility for the final investor to rivindicate the securities, the authors of the Unidroit Convention, at the end, reproduced the American model of property of securities resulting from the 1994 reform of Article 8 of the American Uniform Commercial Code.\n\nThis exercise illustrates the difficulty for the authors of international conventions of producing a perfectly neutral text. A truly balanced approach would probably have consisted in reintroducing in the substantive law governing securities certain aspects of the law of the\ncountry of the issuer. This method, known under the name of \"look-through approach\", would thus have allowed that, in the event of bankruptcy of an American intermediary, American investors holding securities issued by European issuers would have the possibility to rivindicate these securities by following the rivindication procedures provided under the legislation of the latter. However, one must also acknowledge that the result would probably also have been greater complexity, the administrator of an intermediary in bankruptcy being obliged to apply different procedures for recovery depending on the country of issue of the securities.\n\nThe Unidroit Convention, adopted without enthusiasm on 9 October 2009, might be signed, as for the Hague Convention, only by the United States, Switzerland and some other third country such as Mauritius or Bangladesh. On the other hand, as a model law, it could inspire the legislative reforms of numerous emerging countries, such as China, Brazil, India and Russia, or even the European Union, in spite of a fierce resistance from the issuer side.\n\nIf such a transposition of the Geneva Securities Convention into internal law would take place, it would enable the American model of Article 8 of the UCC to penetrate these legislations by a discreet door, but in a differently more effective way.\n"}
{"id": "29504496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29504496", "title": "Japan–Korea Agreement of April 1905", "text": "Japan–Korea Agreement of April 1905\n\nThe Japan–Korea Protocol of August 1905 was made between the Empire of Japan and the Korean Empire in 1905. Negotiations were concluded on April 1, 1905.\n\nThis treaty transferring responsibility for postal, telegraph, and telephone service to Japan.\n\nThe provisions of the treaty encompassed the right of eminent domain or condemnation against public property and against private property. In this context, the treaty provided for no compensation or payments except that Japan \"shall deliver to the Korean Government a suitable percentage\" of the profits.\n\nThe treaty preamble asserted that the Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary of His Majesty the Emperor of Japan and the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs of His Majesty the Emperor of Korea were \"respectively duly empowered\" to negotiate and to agree upon the specific language of the proposed bilateral treaty:\n\nThe Imperial Government of Korea shall transfer and assign the control and administration of the post, telegraph and telephone services in Korea (except the telephone service exclusively pertaining to the Department of the Imperial Household) to the Imperial Japanese Government.\n\nThe land, buildings, furnitures, instruments, machines and all other appliances connected with the system of communications already established by the Imperial Government of Korea, shall, by virtue of the present Agreement, be transferred to the control of the Imperial Japanese Government. The authorities of the two countries acting together shall make an inventory of the land, buildings and all other requisites mentioned in the preceding paragraph which shall serve as evidence in the future.\n\nWhen it is deemed necessary by the Japanese Government to extend the communication system in Korea, they may appropriate land and buildings belonging to the State or to private persons, the former without compensation and the latter with proper indemnification.\n\nIn respect of the control of the communication service and the custody of the properties in connection therewith, the Japanese Government assume, on their own account, the responsibility of good administration. The expenses required for the extension of the communication services shall also be borne by the Imperial Government of Japan. The Imperial Government of Japan shall officially notify the Imperial Government of Korea of the financial condition of the system of communications under their control.\n\nAll appliances and materials which are deemed necessary by the Imperial Government of Japan for the control or extension of the system of communication shall be exempt from all duties and imposts.\n\nThe Imperial Government of Korea shall be at liberty to maintain the present Board of Communication so far as such retention does not interfere with the control and extension of the services by the Japanese Government. The Japanese Government, in controlling and extending the services, shall engage as many Korean officials and employees as possible.\n\nIn respect of the arrangements formerly entered into by the Korean Government with the Governments of foreign Powers concerning the post, telegraph and telephone services, the Japanese Government shall in behalf of Korea exercise the rights and perform the obligations pertaining thereto ...\n\nThe various conventions and agreements respecting the communication services hitherto existing between the Governments of Japan and Korea are naturally abolished or modified by the present Agreement.\n\nWhen in future as the result of the general development of the communication system in Korea, there is some adequate profit over and above expenditures defrayed by the Japanese Government for the control and maintenance of the old services and for their extensions and improvements, the Japanese Government shall deliver to the Korean Government a suitable percentage of such profit.\n\nWhen in the future an ample surplus exists in the finance of the Korean Government, the control of their communication services may be returned, as the result of the consultation of the two Governments, to the Government of Korea.\n\nThis \"alleged treaty\" was contrived in a coercive process; and Koreans sought to invalidate the unwanted consequences by presenting evidence to the international community. For example, \n\nThis treaty was confirmed to be \"\"already null and void\" by Treaty on Basic Relations between Japan and the Republic of Korea concluded in 1965.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17543157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17543157", "title": "Landtag of Prussia", "text": "Landtag of Prussia\n\nThe Landtag of Prussia () was the representative assembly of the Kingdom of Prussia implemented in 1849, a bicameral legislature consisting of the upper House of Lords (\"Herrenhaus\") and the lower House of Representatives (\"Abgeordnetenhaus\"). After World War I and the German Revolution of 1918–19 the \"Landtag\" diet continued as the parliament of the Free State of Prussia between 1921 and 1933.\n\nIn the course of the 1848 Revolution King Frederick William IV of Prussia and his Minister Gottfried Ludolf Camphausen had agreed to call for the general election of a national assembly in all Prussian provinces. The Prussian National Assembly however was dismissed by royal decree of 5 December 1848 and the king imposed the Constitution of Prussia. The constitution, though reactionary, at least provided a bicameral parliament, consisting of a First Chamber (\"Erste Kammer\", called House of Lords from 1855), as well as a Second Chamber (\"Zweite Kammer\", from 1855 House of Representatives) whose members were elected according to the three-class franchise system. Both houses and the King of Prussia had the right to introduce bills.\n\nUnder the regency of Prince William I and his liberal prime minister Prince Karl Anton von Hohenzollern from 1858 (\"New Era\"), the House of Representatives led by the newly established German Progress Party gradually developed to a serious political actor, culminating in a constitutional conflict in 1861: William I, who had just acceded to the Prussian throne, and his war minister Albrecht von Roon requested the approval for an increment of the military budget, which the deputies refused. Roon urged the king to appoint Otto von Bismarck Prime Minister, who - \"not by speeches and votes of the majority are the great questions of the time decided (...) but by iron and blood\" - acted on an alleged gap in the constitution (\"Lückentheorie\") and openly sidestepped any power of the purse of the Prussian representatives. The assembly raised a blistering protest and over the following years Bismarck's cabinet had to govern without a government budget passed by the legislature. In September 1866 the prime minister, at a peak of his power after the Battle of Königgrätz, reached the passage of the Indemnity Act (\"Indemnitätsgesetz\") subsequently legalising his budget management. The balloting led to the split-off of the National Liberal Party which became a loyal supporter of Bismarck's policies.\n\nDuring the German Revolution of 1918–19 the new Prussian government of Majority Social Democrats (MSPD) and Independent Social Democrats (USPD) under Paul Hirsch had the bicameral legislature abolished. A constitutional convention (\"Preußische Landesversamlung\") was elected on 26 January 1919, after the introduction of equal franchise for all men and women. After the failed Kapp Putsch of 1920, the assembly confirmed the first cabinet of Minister-president Otto Braun and finally adopted the new Prussian constitution on 30 November. The \"Preußischer Landtag\" was re-established as the parliament of the Free State of Prussia in 1921. The provinces were represented in the Prussian State Council, which succeeded the former \"Herrenhaus\" as a kind of upper house. The Cologne mayor Konrad Adenauer served as its president until 1933.\n\nA legislative period lasted for no longer than four years. The parliament could be dissolved early by joint resolution of the prime minister and the presidents of the Landtag and the State Council or by a plebiscite. In 1931 just such a referendum took place on the initiative of the Stahlhelm veteran's association with the support of the Nazi Party and the German Communist Party.\n. Landtag elections took place on 20 February 1921, on 7 December 1924, on 20 May 1928 on 24 April 1932 and on 5 March 1933.\n\nIn 1899, the House of Representatives (\"Abgeordnetenhaus\") moved into a building on Prinz-Albrecht-Straße No. 5 (present-day Niederkirchnerstraße), close to Potsdamer Platz and situated opposite to the Martin Gropius Bau. During the German Revolution of 1918–19 the \"Reichsrätekongress\" (national Workers' and Soldiers' Council) held its assemblies here from 16 to 20 December 1918. On 1 January 1919, the Communist Party of Germany was founded here. Since 1993 the building has been the seat of the Abgeordnetenhaus of Berlin: colloquially it is still named \"Preußischer Landtag\" just as the nearby building accommodating the Bundestag is still generally referred to as the Reichstag.\n\nThe seat of the Prussian House of Lords on Leipziger Straße was inaugurated in 1904. Both buildings were built back-to-back according to plans designed by Friedrich Schulze, they intercommunicate via a common restaurant wing. Upon the Nazi \"Machtergreifung\", the \"Herrenhaus\" building served as an annex of the neighbouring Ministry of Aviation and Hermann Göring's \"Preußenhaus\" foundation. After World War II it housed several departments of the (East) German Academy of Sciences and since 29 September 2000 is the seat of the German Bundesrat.\n\nPolitical Party:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6731231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6731231", "title": "Lex mercatoria", "text": "Lex mercatoria\n\nLex mercatoria (from the Latin for \"merchant law\"), often referred to as \"the Law Merchant\" in English, is the body of commercial law used by merchants throughout Europe during the medieval period. It evolved similar to English common law as a system of custom and best practice, which was enforced through a system of merchant courts along the main trade routes. It functioned as the international law of commerce. It emphasised contractual freedom and alienability of property, while shunning legal technicalities and deciding cases \"ex aequo et bono\". A distinct feature was the reliance by merchants on a legal system developed and administered by them. States or local authorities seldom interfered, and did not interfere a lot in internal domestic trade. Under \"lex mercatoria\" trade flourished and states took in large amounts of taxation.\n\nIn the last years new theories had changed the understanding of this medieval treatise considering it as proposal for legal reform or a document used for instructional purposes. These theories consider that the treatise cannot be described as a body of laws applicable in its time, but the desire of a legal scholar to improve and facilitate the litigation between merchants. The text is composed by 21 sections and an annex. The sections described procedural matters such as the presence of witnesses and the relation between this body of law and common law. It has been considered as a false statement to define this as a system exclusively based in custom, when there are structures and elements from the existent legal system, such as Ordinances and even concepts proper of the Romano-canonical procedure.\n\nThe \"lex mercatoria\" was originally a body of rules and principles laid down by merchants to regulate their dealings. It consisted of rules and customs common to merchants and traders in Europe, with some local variation. It originated from the need for quick and effective jurisdiction, administered by specialised courts. The guiding spirit of the merchant law was that it ought to derive from commercial practice, respond to the needs of the merchants, and be comprehensible and acceptable to the merchants who submitted to it. International commercial law today owes some of its fundamental principles to the \"lex mercatoria\". This includes choice of arbitration institutions, procedures, applicable law and arbitrators, and the goal to reflect customs, usage and good practice among the parties.\n\nGoods and services flowed freely during the medieval merchant law, thus generating more wealth for all involved. It is debated whether the law was uniform in nature, was spontaneous as a method of dispute resolution, or applied equally to everyone who subordinated to it. The \"lex mercatoria\" was also a means for local communities to protect their own markets. Local kings or lords extracted taxes and set trade restrictions. In 1303 Edward I issued the Carta Mercatoria, a charter to foreign merchants in England, which guaranteed them freedom to trade, with certain protections and exemption under the law. Although the charter was revoked by Edward II, due to complaints by English merchants, foreign merchants retained most of their rights in practice, but these would vary widely with the march of time, events and changes to state policy.\n\nThe \"lex mercatoria\" was the product of customs and practices among traders, and could be enforced through the local courts. However, the merchants needed to solve their disputes rapidly, sometimes on the hour, with the least costs and by the most efficient means. Public courts did not provide this. A trial before the courts would delay their business, and that meant losing money. The \"lex mercatoria\" provided quick and effective justice. This was possible through informal proceedings, with liberal procedural rules. The \"lex mercatoria\" rendered proportionate judgements over the merchants’ disputes, in light of \"fair price\", good commerce, and equity.\n\nJudges were chosen according to their commercial background and practical knowledge. Their reputation rested upon their perceived expertise in merchant trade and their fair-mindedness. Gradually, a professional judiciary developed through the merchant judges. Their skills and reputation would however still rely upon practical knowledge of merchant practice. These characteristics serve as important measures in the appointment of international commercial arbitrators today.\n\nThe \"lex mercatoria\" owed its origin to the fact that the civil law was not sufficiently responsive to the growing demands of commerce, as well as to the fact that trade in pre-medieval times was practically in the hands of those who might be termed cosmopolitan merchants, who wanted a prompt and effective jurisdiction. It was administered for the most part in special courts, such as those of the guilds in Italy, or the fair courts of Germany and France, or as in England, in courts of the Staple or Piepowder.\n\nThe \"lex mercatoria\" was composed of such usages and customs as were common to merchants and traders in all parts of Europe, varied slightly in different localities by special peculiarities. Less procedural formality meant speedier dispensation of justice, particularly when it came to documentation and proof. Out of practical need, the medieval \"lex mercatoria\" originated the “writing obligatory”. By this, creditors could freely transfer the debts owed to them. The “writing obligatory” displaced the need for more complex forms of proof, as it was valid as a proof of debt, without further proof of; transfer of the debt; powers of attorney; or a formal bargain for sale. The \"lex mercatoria\" also strengthened the concept of party autonomy: whatever the rules of the \"lex mercatoria\" were, the parties were always free to choose whether to take a case to court, what evidence to submit and which law to apply.\n\nMerchant law declined as a cosmopolitan and international system of merchant justice towards the end of medieval times. This was to a large extent due to the adoption of national commercial law codes. It was also connected with an increasing modification of local customs to protect the interests of local merchants. The result of the replacement of \"lex mercatoria\" codes with national governed codes was the loss of autonomy of merchant tribunals to state courts. The main reason for this development was the protection of state interests.\n\nThe nationalisation of the \"lex mercatoria\" did not neglect the practises of merchants or their trans-border trade. Some institutions continued to function, and state judges also were appointed for their merchant expertise, just as modern commercial arbitrators. The laws of the merchants were not eradicated, but simply codified. National codes built on the principles laid down by trade commercial practise and to a large extent they embodied \"lex mercatoria\" substantial rules. This was for example the case in France. The Code Commercial was issued in 1807, where \"lex mercatoria\" rules were preserved to govern formation, performance and termination of contracts. In effect, the nation states reconstituted the \"lex mercatoria\" in their image.\n\nEnglish courts applied merchant customs only if they were \"certain\" in nature, \"consistent with law\" and \"in existence since time immemorial.\" English judges also required that merchant customs were proven before the court. But even as early as 1608, Chief Justice Edward Coke described \"lex mercatoria\" as \"a part of the common law,\" and William Blackstone would later concur. The tradition continued especially under Lord Mansfield, who is said to be the father of English commercial law. Precepts of the \"lex mercatoria\" were also kept alive through equity and the admiralty courts in maritime affairs. In the US, traditions of the \"lex mercatoria\" prevailed in the general principles and doctrines of commercial jurisprudence.\n\nThe history of the \"lex mercatoria\" in England is divided into three stages: the first prior to the time of Coke, when it was a special kind of law – as distinct from the common law – administered in special courts for a special class of the community (i.e. the mercantile); the second stage was one of transition, the \"lex mercatoria\" being administered in the common law courts, but as a body of customs, to be proved as a fact in each individual case of doubt; the third stage, which has continued to the present day, dates from the presidency over the king's bench of Lord Mansfield (q.v.), under whom it was moulded into the mercantile law of to-day. To the \"lex mercatoria\" modern English law owes the fundamental principles in the law of partnership, negotiable instruments and trade marks.\nSir John Holt (Chief Justice 1689 to 1710) and Lord Mansfield (Chief Justice, 1756 to 1788) were the leading proponents of incorporating the \"lex mercatoria\" into the common law. Holt did not complete the task, possibly out of his own conservatism (see \"Clerke v Martin\") and it was Lord Mansfield that became known as the 'founder of the commercial law of this country\" (Great Britain). Whilst sitting in Guildhall, Lord Mansfield created,\na body of substantive commercial law, logical, just, modern in character and at the same time in harmony with the principles of the common law. It was due to Lord Mansfield's genius that the harmonisation of commercial custom and the common law was carried out with an almost complete understanding of the requirements of the commercial community, and the fundamental principles of the old law and that that marriage of idea proved acceptable to both merchants and lawyers.\n\n\n\"Lex mercatoria\" precepts have been reaffirmed in new international mercantile law. National trade barriers are torn down in order to induce commerce. The new commercial law is grounded on commercial practice directed at market efficiency and privacy. Dispute resolution has also evolved, and functional methods like international commercial arbitration is now available. These developments have also attracted the interest of empirical sociology of law The principles of the medieval \"lex mercatoria\" – efficiency, party autonomy, and choice of arbitrator – are applied, and arbitrators often render judgements based on customs. The new merchant law encompasses a huge body of international commercial law.\n\nIn summary, nation states somewhat fragmented the medieval \"lex mercatoria\" but it is far from destroyed. Local interests triumphed in the medieval ages, just as national interests do today. A modern variant of the \"lex mercatoria\" is the evolving law and dispute resolution in cyberspace. Internet traders are the fastest growing body of merchants in history. Parties can solve domain-name disputes online expeditiously and quickly. In a virtual court documents are filed and examined online, arguments are made online and decisions are published online – seldom challenged before traditional courts of law. ICANN's UDRP (and its proposals for Rapid Suspension) and Nominet's DRS are examples of this. The medieval, the modern and cyberspace merchant laws face comparable issues of enforceability. They solve the problems somewhat differently, but the reaction of the market is the main incentive to comply with a ruling.\n\nFurther, \"lex mercatoria\" is sometimes used in international disputes between commercial entities. Most often those disputes are decided by arbitrators which sometimes are allowed (explicitly of implied) to apply \"lex mercatoria\" principles. Therefore, some legal practitioners assume that there is a whole set of legal principles named \"lex mercatoria\" in international or transnational commercial law. The most recent and constantly updated set of rules are the \"TransLex Principles\" collected and formulated by Klaus Peter Berger (University of Cologne) and his Center for Transnational Law.\n\nWhat remains of \"lex mercatoria\" precepts today is a qualified faith in self-regulation by merchants, and a reluctance to surrender the efficiencies of merchant practice to state confinement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53469492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53469492", "title": "Library Services Act", "text": "Library Services Act\n\nThe Library Services Act (LSA) was passed by the U.S. Congress in 1956. Its purpose was to promote the development of public libraries in rural areas through federal funding. It was passed by the 84th U.S. Congressional session as the H.R. 2840 bill, which the 34th President of the United States Dwight D. Eisenhower signed into law on June 19, 1956.\n\nTo receive funding, states needed to submit a plan to the Commissioner of Education that demonstrated how the funds would be used, whether for library personnel, books, or equipment. Thus, making state and local governments prioritize the improvement of their libraries while also establishing their own initiatives and objectives. Since federal government was not favorably looked upon at the time, the law stated multiple times the state’s authority regarding any decisions toward the library’s goals, management, or collection.\n\nHowever, up until 1961, Indiana was the only state that did not accept federal funds. Governor Harold Handley believed that by accepting the funds, “Hoosiers would be brainwashed with books handpicked by the Washington bureaucrats.” U.S. Representative John Brademas of Indiana vehemently disagreed. It was reported that Gov. Handley rejected approximately $700,000 to improve the library services.\n\nOverall, the LSA had a major positive impact on libraries throughout the rest of the country. And additional 5 million books and other informational and educational materials were secured for rural communities. Many libraries noted a 40% or more increase in book circulation as well, along with a 32% increase in interlibrary loans.\n\nOther accomplishments included 288 bookmobiles for rural communities and 800 new library staff members. Multitype and public library systems were being established due to the LSA as well. And when the Library Services and Construction Act became effective in 1964, the formation of regional and statewide library networks continued to grow.\n\nThe LSA was set to expire in 1961, but plans were already in motion to prolong the act. On May 26, 1960, the Senate passed a five-year extension without a single opposing vote.\n\nOnly a few years later, the Library Services and Construction Act would be introduced replacing the Library Services Act.\n"}
{"id": "1032982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1032982", "title": "Marine reserve", "text": "Marine reserve\n\nA marine reserve is a type of marine protected area that has legal protection against fishing or development. As of 2007 less than 1% of the world’s oceans had been set aside in marine reserves. Benefits include increases in the diversity, density, biomass, body size and reproductive potential of fishery and other species within their boundaries.\n\nAs of 2010, scientists had studied more than 150 marine reserves in at least 61 countries and monitored biological changes inside the reserves. The number of species in each study ranged from 1 to 250 and the reserves ranged in size from 0.006 to 800 square kilometers (0.002 to 310 square miles). In 2014, the World Parks Association adopted a target of establishing no-take zones for 30% of each habitat globally.\n\nA review of studies of 34 families (210 species) of coral reef fishes demonstrates that the design of a marine reserve has important implications for its ability to protect habitat and focal species.\n\nEffective reserves included habitats that support the life history of focal species (e.g. home ranges, nursery grounds, migration corridors and spawning aggregations), and were located to accommodate movement patterns among them.\n\nMovement patterns (home ranges, ontogenetic shifts and spawning migrations) vary among and within species, and are influenced by factors such as size, sex, behaviour, density, habitat characteristics, season, tide and time of day. For example, damselfishes, butterflyfishes and angelfishes travel <0.1–0.5 km, while some sharks and tuna migrate over thousands of kilometres. Larval dispersal distances tend to be <5–15 km, and self-recruitment to new habitat is common.\n\nThe review indicated that effective marine reserves are more than twice the size of the home range of focal/target species (in all directions). The presence of effective marine management outside the reserve may allow smaller reserves. Reserve size recommendations apply to the specific habitats of focal species, not the overall size. For example, coral reef species require coral reef habitats rather than open ocean or seagrass beds.\n\nMarine reserve whose boundaries are extensively fished benefit from compact shapes (e.g., squares or circles rather than elongated rectangles). Including whole ecological units (e.g., an offshore reef) can reduce exports where that is desired.\n\nMinimum sustainable population sizes have not been determined for most marine populations. Instead, fisheries ecologists use the fraction of unfished stock levels as a proxy. Meta-analyses suggest that maintaining populations above ∼37% of those levels generally ensures stable populations, although variations in fishing pressure allow fractions as small as 10% or as large as 40% (to protect species such as sharks and some grouper that have lower reproductive output or slower maturation). Higher fractions of habitat protection may protect areas vulnerable to disturbances such as typhoons or climate change. 20–30% protection can achieve fisheries objectives in areas with controlled fishing pressure and is the minimum level of habitat protection recommended by IUCN-WCPA.\n\nMany fish species congregate to facilitate spawning. Such congregations are spatially and temporally predictable and increase the species' vulnerability to overfishing. Species such as groupers and rabbitfishes travel long distances to congregate for days or weeks. Such gatherings are their only opportunities to reproduce and are crucial to population maintenance. Species such as snappers and parrotfishes congregate in feeding or resting areas. Juveniles may congregate in nursery areas without adults. Such special areas may require only seasonal protections if at other times no vital activities are taking place. Such reserves must be spaced to allow focal species to journey among them. If the location of such special areas is unknown, or is too large to include in a reserve, management approaches such as seasonal capture and sales restrictions may provide some protection. Sea turtle nesting areas, dugong feeding areas, cetacean migratory corridors and calving grounds are examples of other special areas that can be protected seasonally. Other types of special areas include isolated habitats that have unique assemblages and populations, habitats that are important for endemic species and highly diverse areas.\n\nIsolated populations (e.g.,those on remote atolls) have high conservation value where they harbor endemic species and/or unique assemblages. A location or population 20–30 km from its nearest neighbor generally qualifies as isolated in the absence of a persistent linking current. Their isolation (low connectivity) requires such areas to be largely self-replenishing. This leaves them less resilient to disturbance. Sustaining their marine species requires a higher fraction of living areas to be protected.\n\nCoral reef fish species recovery rates (from e.g., overfishing) depend on their life history and factors such as ecological characteristics, fishing intensity and population size. In the Coral Triangle, species at lower trophic levels that have smaller maximum sizes, faster growth and maturation rates and shorter life spans tend to recover more quickly than species having the opposite characteristics. For example, in the Philippines, populations of planktivores (e.g., fusiliers) and some herbivores (e.g., parrotfishes) recovered in \"<\"5–10 years in marine reserves, while predators (e.g., groupers) took 20–40 years. Increased fishing pressure adversely affects recovery rates (e.g., Great Barrier Reef and Papua New Guinea).\n\nLong-term protection allows species with slower recovery rates to achieve and maintain ecosystem health and associated fishery benefits. Permanent protection protects these species over the long-term. Short-term protections do not allow slow-recovering species to reach or maintain stable populations.\n\nIn some Coral Triangle countries (e.g., Papua New Guinea and Solomon Islands), short term protections are the most common form of traditional marine resource management. These protections can help address problems at lower trophic levels (e.g., herbivores) or allow spawning to succeed. Other reasons for adopting short-term protections include allowing communities to stockpile resources for feasts or close areas for cultural reasons. Short-term/periodic reserves also may function as partial insurance by enhancing overall ecosystem resilience against catastrophes. Reopened reserves can be protected by management controls that limit the harvest to less than the increase achieved during closure, although at greatly reduced recovery rates.\n\nSome habitats and species are better prepared environmental changes or extremes. These include coral communities that handle high sea surface temperature (SST); areas with variable SSTs and carbonate chemistry and areas adjacent to undeveloped low-lying inland areas that coastal habitats can expand into as sea levels rise. Such areas constitute climate change refugia and can potentially better protect biodiversity than more fragile areas. They may also provide fishery benefits, since habitat loss from climate change is a major fishery threat.\n\nLocal practices such as overfishing, blast fishing, trawling, coastal development and pollution threaten many marine habitats. These threats decrease ecosystem health and productivity and adversely affect focal and other species. Such practices can also decrease resilience. Some practices that originate beyond reserve boundaries (e.g., runoff) can be mitigated by considering their impacts within broader management frameworks. Areas that are not threatened by such practices and that are adjacent to other unthreatening areas may be better choices for reserves.\n\nNetworks of marine reserves can support both fisheries management and biodiversity conservation. The size, spacing and location of reserves within a network must respect larval dispersal and movement patterns of species that are targeted for protection.\n\nExisting ecological guidelines for designing networks independently focus on achieving either fisheries, biodiversity or climate change objectives or combinations of fisheries and biodiversity or biodiversity and climate change. These three goals have different implications for network design. The most important are reserve size and protection duration (permanent, long term, short term, or periodic closures).\n\nMaintaining diversity involves protecting all species. Generally this involves protecting adequate examples of each major habitat (e.g., each type of coral reef, mangrove and seagrass community). Resiliency to threats improves when multiple examples of each habitat are protected.\n\nTo address biodiversity or climate change, reserves 4–20 km across are recommended, because they protect larger populations of more species.\n\nProtecting areas that have already proven resilient to ecological changes and/or are relatively well-protected by other protocols are likely to better survive climate change as well.\n\nReserves 0.5–1 km across export more adults and larvae to fished areas, potentially increasing recruitment and stock replenishment there. Such small reserves are common in the Coral Triangle, where they benefited some fisheries.\n\nConnectivity is the linking of local populations through the (voluntary) dispersal of individuals. Connected reserves are close enough to each other that larvae, juveniles or adults can cross from one to another as their behavior patterns dictate. Connectivity is a key factor in network design, since it allows a disturbed reserve to recover by recruiting individuals from other, potentially overpopulated, reserves. Effective networks spaced reserves at distances of <15 km from each other, with smaller reserves spaced more closely.\n\nMost coastal fish species have a bipartite life cycle where larvae are pelagic before settling out of the plankton to live on a reef. While these fish travel varying distances during their life history, their larvae have the potential to move 10s–100s of km, more than the more sedentary adults and juveniles, which have home ranges of <1 m to a few km. Adults and juveniles of some species travel 10s–100s of kilometers as they mature to reach appropriate habitats (e.g., such as coral reef, mangrove and seagrass habitats) or to migrate to spawning areas. When adults and juveniles leave a marine reserve, they become vulnerable to fishing. However, larvae can generally leave a reserve without elevated risk because of their small size and limited fishery exposure. Effective networks account for the movement patterns of target species at each life cycle stage.\n\nGiven a strong, consistent current, siting marine reserves upstream increases downstream populations.\n\nMarine reserves are distinct marine parks, but there is some overlap in usage.\n\nAs of April 2008 no high seas marine reserves had been established. Greenpeace is campaigning for the \"doughnut holes\" of the western pacific to be declared as marine reserves and for 40 percent of the world’s oceans to be so protected.\n\n\nNew Zealand has 37 marine reserves spread around the North and South Islands and other outlying islands. These are 'no take' areas where all forms of exploitation are prohibited. Marine reserves are administered by the Department of Conservation. New Zealand's marine environment is more than 15 times larger than its terrestrial area, however only 9.5% of New Zealand's territorial waters are in marine reserves, while 0.4% of New Zealand's exclusive economic zone (EEZ) is currently protected.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57764950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57764950", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Latvia)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Latvia)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Latvia is the leading state governing body in the field of justice and is the supreme authority for subordinate public administration institutions. The Ministry of Justice is at the political level run by the Minister of Justice .\n\nThe Ministry of Justice was established in 1918. Its functions and tasks are determined by its statute. The ministry is also run by the Secretary of State . The main tasks of the State Secretary are the organization of the development of sectoral policies and strategies, the implementation of sectoral policies, the management of the institution's administrative work and the organization of the implementation of ministry functions.\n\n"}
{"id": "18756936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18756936", "title": "Movement to impeach Pervez Musharraf", "text": "Movement to impeach Pervez Musharraf\n\nThe movement to impeach Pervez Musharraf was an August 2008 attempt by opposition parties comprising the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP), Pakistan Muslim League (N) (PML-N), Awami National Party (ANP), and Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam to force Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf out of office. On August 18, Musharraf announced his resignation.\n\nOn November 3, 2007, President and then-Chief of the Army Staff Pervez Musharraf declared a state of emergency, postponing indefinitely the elections for the National Assembly of Pakistan that were initially scheduled to take place on January 8, 2008. The emergency announcement also contained news of the dismissal of Chief Justice of Pakistan Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry, widely considered to have been motivated by a prediction that the Supreme Court was about to invalidate Musharraf's October reelection as President of Pakistan in uniform. This action, combined with a broad-based pro-democracy movement occurring in Pakistan at the time, led to a precipitous fall in Musharraf's popularity. Following the assassination of Benazir Bhutto, the Pakistani Election Commission announced that the election would occur on February 18. The elections were won by the PPP and the PML-N, two parties hostile to Musharraf and his Pakistan Muslim League (Q) party.\n\nOn August 7, 2008, the Pakistan Peoples Party and the Pakistan Muslim League (N) agreed to ask Musharraf to get the Vote of Confidence from the National and Provisional Assemblies or step down, and began his impeachment. Asif Ali Zardari and Nawaz Sharif announced that the two parties would be sending a joint request asking that Musharraf step down, and that they would impeach him through the parliamentary process if he refused. Musharraf, however, said, \"I will defeat those who try to push me to the wall. If they use their right to oust me, I have the right to defend myself.\" Upon hearing the news, Musharraf delayed his departure for the Beijing Olympics by a day, and it was later announced that he would be replaced at the opening ceremonies by Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gilani. The government summoned the National Assembly for a session on August 11 to begin the impeachment proceedings. Capt. Wasif Syed, spokesman for the Pakistan People's Party, confirmed the announcement, saying, \"A decision has been made that he has to go now, and all the parties have agreed on this point.\" To impeach Musharraf, the ruling coalition would have needed a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly, and it was not certain that they control the required number of votes. Musharraf had the option to fight his impeachment by dissolving parliament, although doing so could cause a backlash, and he would likely need the support of Pakistan's army to be successful.\nZardari announced on TV that the impeachment would be under s.47 of the Pakistani Constitution. This provides the process for impeachment, but he did not mention the grounds. The 2007 impeachment proceedings, which led to the imposition of emergency rule, were based upon the provisions prohibiting the President of Pakistan from holding \"an office of profit\" from the Pakistan Government. \n\nPakistan's ruling coalition, on August 16, gave Musharraf a Tuesday, August 19 deadline to resign. Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi said Musharraf must resign to avoid being impeached \"by today or tomorrow, as there is no room for any delay\". Defense Minister Ahmed Mukhtar announced that \"the charge sheet will be presented in parliament by Tuesday.\" No president has ever been impeached in Pakistan's 61-year history. Presidential aides, however, said Musharraf refused to leave office under pressure. Meanwhile, Pakistan Peoples Party co-chairman Asif Zardari said that the next president of the country may very well be a woman, denying he was a presidential candidate: \"I would have become the prime minister if I wished to become president.\" Nawaz Sharif said: \"I am not personally interested. It should go to a person who actually enjoys the support of the people of Pakistan. I think best would be somebody from Balochistan of course there is a sense of deprivation in the province of Balochistan, perhaps that will be a better choice.\"\n\nOn August 18, 2008, in a speech defending his record, Musharraf announced that he would resign. In the August 18 negotiations which failed over the legal technicalities, he sought immunity from prosecution if he had resigned before the impeachment proceedings. On asylum, Condoleezza Rice on \"Fox News Sunday\" said that \"Musharraf would not be going to the United States. This is an issue that is not on the table.\" Musharraf stated he would stay in Pakistan in a house he was building in an exclusive enclave in Islamabad near a golf club.\n\nMusharraf, 65, announced his resignation, in a 1 p.m. televised address to avoid impeachment: \"After viewing the situation and consulting legal advisers and political allies, with their advice I have decided to resign. I leave my future in the hands of people. Not a single charge in the impeachment can stand against me. No charge can be proved against me because I never did anything for myself, it was all for Pakistan. On the map of the world, Pakistan is now an important country, by the grace of Allah. Whether I win or lose the impeachment, the nation will lose. They don’t realize they can succeed against me but the country will undergo irreparable damage. My resignation will go to the speaker of the National Assembly today.\" In an emotional 1 hour speech, Musharraf raised his clenched fists to chest height, and said, \"Long live Pakistan!\" Nasir Ali Khan, a senior member of the Pakistan Muslim League-N, said Musharraf will stay in Pakistan, a request he had insisted on. The Constitution provided that a new president must be chosen within 30 days. The resignation permitted the 4-month-old coalition government to choose a new president by a vote of the Parliament and provincial assemblies. US-based Newsweek magazine reported that \"the president would 'fly into exile in Saudi Arabia, where he is to remain for the next three months.\"\nThe British \"Daily Telegraph\" reported an unnamed Western diplomat as saying that, after a pilgrimage to Mecca, Musharraf might settle in London.\n\nPakistan's Election Commission on August 22 announced that Presidential elections were to be held on September 6, and the nomination papers could be filed from August 26. President Asif Ali Zardari was elected by the 2 houses of parliament and the 4 provincial assemblies on September 9.\n\nPresident Pervez Musharraf went into exile on Saturday November 23, 2008. He arrived in London on Sunday November 24, 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17611685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17611685", "title": "Notarius", "text": "Notarius\n\nA notarius is a public secretary who is appointed by competent authority to draw up official or authentic documents (compare English \"notary\"). In the Roman Catholic Church there have been apostolic notaries and even episcopal notaries. Documents drawn up by \"notarii\" are issued chiefly from the official administrative offices, the chanceries; secondly, from tribunals; lastly, others are drawn up at the request of individuals to authenticate their contracts or other acts.\n\nThe title and office existed in the bureaucracy of the Christianised Roman Empire at the Imperial Court, where the college of imperial notaries were governed by a \"primicerius\". From the usage in the Emperor's representative in the West, the Exarch of Ravenna, the post and title was applied in the increasingly complicated bureaucracy of the Papal curia in Rome. There were \"notarii\" attached to all the episcopal see, whence they passed into use in the royal chanceries. All these \"notarii\" were in minor orders. \n\nAs the \"ex officio\" head of the papal chancery, the \"primicerius\" of the notaries was an important personage. During a vacancy of the papal chair, he formed part of the interim government, and a letter in 640 is signed (the pope being elected but not yet consecrated) by one \"Johannes, \"primicerius\" and serving in the place of the holy apostolic see\".\n\nThere were formerly apostolic notaries and even apostolic prothonotaries commissioned by papal letters, whose duty it was to receive documents in connection with benefices, foundations, and donations in favor of churches, the wills of clerics and other affairs to which the ecclesiastivcal hierarchy was an interested party. The title no longer exists; the only ecclesiastical notaries at present are the officials of the Roman and episcopal curiae.\n\n\"Liber Pontificalis\" attributes the seven regional notaries of the Church in Rome, one for each ecclesiastical district of the Holy City, to an institution of Pope Clement I (traditionally 88-98), to record the acts of the martyrs; though this is unattested in any early document, the notice of Pope Julius I (337-352) in the \"Liber Pontificalis\" relates that this pope ordered an account of the property of the Church, intended as an authentic document, to be drawn up before the \"primicerius\" of the notaries. These important officials became the \"prothonotaries\".\n"}
{"id": "19624443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19624443", "title": "Passive electioneering", "text": "Passive electioneering\n\nPassive electioneering is the act of wearing campaign paraphernalia or carrying signs to a polling place with the intent of influencing voters. Across the United States laws vary relating to passive electioneering. In the fall of 2008, officials in Virginia moved to ban the wearing of campaign paraphernalia. New York has a similar law in place.\n\nIn 2008, internet political organizers were cautioning voters not to wear campaign T-shirts at the polls. \n\nAt least six states, Maine, Montana, New York, Vermont, Virginia, and Kansas prohibit wearing campaign buttons, stickers and badges inside polling places. Efforts to enforce a similar ban are headed to court in Pennsylvania. The American Civil Liberties Union argued that the ban violates the First Amendment's right to free speech.\n\nThe State of New York has a rarely enforced law that prohibits wearing campaign buttons or T-shirt at a polling place. In the fall of 2008, New York State Board of Elections Spokesman Bob Brehm stated that voters at the polls who wear a campaign button or T-shirt will be asked to remove the item.\n\nThe Virginia State Board of Elections voted on Tuesday October 14, 2008, to ban clothing and hats as well as buttons and other paraphernalia that directly advocate the election or defeat of a specific candidate or issue.\n\nWhile Canadian electoral law allows representatives of the political parties to be present in polling stations, \"nobody\" present at the polling station is permitted to wear or carry anything identifying themselves as a member of a political party or supporter or opponent of any political cause . This includes voters . Partisan officials are also not permitted to campaign immediately in front of a polling station, nor may anyone bring any campaign literature into the station .\n\nThe equipment used by polling staff has to meet strict colour criteria. Staff may be refused work if their clothing is of a \"partisan colour\" \n\nWearing an explicitly party political item or bringing any political material into a polling station can be classed an attempt to intimidate voters. Clothing that is political but does not support or attack a party (for example, a Che Guevara t-shirt) may still be allowed.\n"}
{"id": "17416907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17416907", "title": "Posthumous birth", "text": "Posthumous birth\n\nA posthumous birth is the birth of a child after the death of a biological parent. A person born in these circumstances is called a posthumous child or a posthumously born person. Most instances of posthumous birth involve the birth of a child after the death of its father, but the term is also applied to infants delivered after the death of the mother, usually by caesarean section.\n\nPosthumous birth has special implications in law, potentially affecting the child's citizenship and legal rights, inheritance, and order of succession. Legal systems generally include special provisions regarding inheritance by posthumous children and the legal status of such children. For example, Massachusetts law states that a posthumous child is treated as having been living at the death of the parent, meaning that the child receives the same share of the parent's estate as if the child had been born before the parent's death. Another emerging legal issue in the United States is the control of genetic material after the death of the donor. United States law holds that posthumous children of U.S. citizens who are born outside the United States have the same rights to citizenship that they would have had if the deceased U.S. citizen parent had been alive at the time of their birth.\n\nA posthumous birth has special significance in the case of hereditary monarchies following primogeniture. In this system, a monarch's own child precedes that monarch's sibling in the order of succession. In cases where the widow of a childless king is pregnant at the time of his death, the next-in-line is not permitted to assume the throne, but must yield place to the unborn child, or ascends and reigns until the child is born. In monarchies that follow male-preference cognatic primogeniture, the situation is similar where the dead monarch was not childless but left a daughter as the next-in-line, as well as a pregnant widow. A posthumous brother would supplant that daughter in the succession, whereas a posthumous sister, being younger, would not. Similarly, in monarchies that follow agnatic primogeniture, the sex of the unborn child determines the succession; a posthumous male child would himself succeed, whereas the next-in-line would succeed upon the birth of a posthumous female child.\n\nPosthumous conception by artificial insemination or in vitro fertilization, whether done using sperm or ova stored before a parent's death or sperm retrieved from a man's corpse, has created new legal issues. When a woman is inseminated with her deceased husband's sperm, laws that establish that a sperm donor is not the legal father of the child born as a result of artificial insemination have had the effect of excluding the deceased husband from fatherhood and making the child legally fatherless. In the United Kingdom before 2000, birth records of children conceived using a dead man's sperm had to identify the infants as fatherless, but in 2000 the government announced that the law would be changed to allow the deceased father's name to be listed on the birth certificate. In 1986, a New South Wales legal reform commission recommended that the law should recognize the deceased husband as the father of a child born from post-mortem artificial insemination, provided that the woman is his widow and unmarried at the time of birth, but the child should have inheritance rights to the father's estate only if the father left a will that included specific provisions for the child. In 2001, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court was asked to consider whether the father's name should appear on the birth record for a child conceived through artificial insemination after her father's death, as well as whether that child was eligible for U.S. Social Security benefits. The court ruled in January 2002 that a child could be the legal heir of a dead parent if there was a genetic relationship and the deceased parent had both agreed to the posthumous conception and committed to support the child. Different U.S. state courts and federal appellate courts have ruled differently in similar cases. In 2012, the U.S. Supreme Court ruled in \"Astrue v. Capato\" that twins born 18 months after their father's death using the father's frozen sperm were \"not\" eligible for Social Security benefits, which set a new precedent.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, it was traditional for posthumous children born in England to be given a matronymic surname instead of a patronymic one. This may in part explain why matronyms are more common in England than in other parts of Europe.\n\nIn Ancient Rome, posthumous children of noble birth were often given the cognomen (or third name) ‘Postumus.’ One example is Agrippa Postumus. However, it is likely that the term simply meant “the last child” or youngest born, and did not always indicate posthumous birth.\n\nParikshit, the sole survivor of the Kuru dynasty in \"Mahabharata\", was born after his father Abhimanyu was killed in the Kurukshetra war. \n\nThe Greek god Asclepius is said to have been delivered by caesarean section after his mother was killed on Mount Olympus.\n\nMacduff, a character in Shakespeare's \"Macbeth\", revealed that he was not literally born, but removed from his [dead] mother, completing a plot twist.\n\nThe Irish Republican song \"The Broad Black Brimmer\" was about a boy whose father died before he was born.\n\nThe Charles Dickens character David Copperfield was a posthumous child, whose father had died six months before he was born.\n\nOn \"\", baby Jacob was born after his father Dan was killed by Freddy.\n\nIn \"The Hunger Games\" series, Gale Hawthorne's sister Posy is born shortly after their father dies in a mine explosion, and Finnick Odair's son is born months after his death in battle.\n\nJohn Connor, a principal character in the \"Terminator\" franchise, and son of Sarah Connor and Kyle Reese (a time traveler from the future), was conceived shortly before his father was killed. As an adult, John was in fact responsible for selecting Reese (who was unaware of their relation) to go back in time.\n\nThe Noughts and Crosses series character Callie-Rose Hadley is born after the execution of her father, Callum McGregor.\n\nIn the British television soap opera \"Coronation Street\", Liam Connor Jr. was born in July 2009; his father and namesake Liam Connor, was ordered murdered by Tony Gordon just a short time after Liam Jr.'s conception in October 2008.\n\n\"Grey's Anatomy\": Derek Shepherd dies in a car accident in Season 11, nine months before the birth of his daughter.\n\n\"Bahubali series\": Mahendra Bahubali is born shortly after his father Amarendra Bahubali gets killed.\n\n\"Star Wars Rebels\": Kanan Jarrus dies sacrificing himself while rescuing his lover Hera Syndulla who is pregnant with their son, Jacen Syndulla.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "704238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=704238", "title": "Priority right", "text": "Priority right\n\nIn patent, industrial design rights and trademark laws, a priority right or right of priority is a time-limited right, triggered by the first filing of an application for a patent, an industrial design or a trademark respectively. The priority right allows the claimant to file a subsequent application in another country for the same invention, design, or trademark effective as of the date of filing the first application. When filing the subsequent application, the applicant must claim the priority of the first application in order to make use of the right of priority. The right of priority belongs to the applicant or his \"successor in title\".\n\nThe period of priority, i.e., the period during which the priority right exists, is usually 6 months for industrial designs and trademarks and 12 months for patents and utility models. The period of priority is often referred to as the priority year for patents and utility models.\n\nIn patent law, when a priority is validly claimed, the date of filing of the first application, called the priority date, is considered to be the effective date of filing for the examination of novelty and inventive step or non-obviousness for the subsequent application claiming the priority of the first application. In other words, the prior art which is taken into account for examining the novelty and inventive step or non-obviousness of the invention claimed in the subsequent application would not be everything made available to the public before the filing date (of the subsequent application) but everything made available to the public before the priority date, i.e. the date of filing of the first application.\n\nThe \"basic purpose [of the right of priority] is to safeguard, for a limited period, the interests of a patent applicant in his endeavour to obtain international protection for his invention, thereby alleviating the negative consequences of the principle of territoriality in patent law.\"\n\nThe \"Paris Convention priority right\", also called \"Convention priority right\" or \"Union priority right\", is a \"priority right\" under a multilateral arrangement, defined by Article 4 of the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property of 1883. The Convention priority right is probably the most widely known priority right. It is defined by its Article 4 A.(1):\n\nArticle 4 B. of the Paris Convention describes the effects of the priority right:\n\nArticle 2 paragraph 1 of the WTO Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPs Agreement) in conjunction with the Paris Convention provides a \"derived\" Convention priority right. That is, while WTO members need not ratify the Paris Convention, they should however comply with Articles 1 through 12, and Article 19, of the Paris Convention. (For a comparative list of the States party to the Paris Convention and the members of the WTO, see for instance \"States Party to PCT/Paris/WTO]\" on the WIPO web site).\n\nSome priority rights are defined by a multilateral convention such as the European Patent Convention (EPC) or the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT). The Paris Convention does not cover priorities claimed in a European patent application or in an international application (or PCT application), as the EPC and the PCT have their own legal provisions regarding priority.\n\n defines the priority right system under the EPC or more precisely recognise priority rights for first filings in or for States party to the Paris Convention or any Member of the World Trade Organization (WTO):\n\nAs explained by the Enlarged Board of Appeal of the European Patent Office (EPO) in its decision G 3/93 of August 16, 1994 (Reasons 4):\n\nRegarding the critical question \"What is 'the same invention'?\" in , opinion G 2/98 prescribes a photographic approach to the assessment of priority. According to Enlarged Board of Appeal opinion G 2/98, the requirement for claiming priority of \"the same invention\" means that priority of a previous application in respect of a claim in a European patent application is to be acknowledged only if the skilled person can derive the subject-matter of the claim directly and unambiguously, using common general knowledge, from the previous application as a whole.\n\nThe Patent Cooperation Treaty, in its Article 8(1), provides the possibility of claiming a right of priority for the filing of an international application (PCT application):\nHowever, Rule 4.10(a) as amended with effect from January 1, 2000 does not apply to all designated Offices. For instance, for the European Patent Office as designated Office, the old Rule 4.10(a) still applied until December 12, 2007, that is, rights of priority of first applications made in a WTO member not party to the Paris Convention were not recognised. Now and more specifically for European patent applications filed on or after December 13, 2007 (the entry into force of the new version of the European Patent Convention, the so-called EPC 2000), the rights of priority of first applications made in a WTO member are recognized under the European Patent Convention.\n\nSome priority rights, called \"internal priority rights\", are defined by some national laws. Such internal priority right allows an applicant who filed a first application in a given country to claim the priority of the first application when filing a subsequent application in the same country. The Paris Convention does not cover internal priority rights. \"See, e.g., provisional application in the US.\"\n\nSome priority rights also exist on the basis of bilateral agreements. A bilateral agreement between a first and a second country may allow an applicant who filed an application in the first country to claim the priority of the first application when filing a second application in the second country. These kinds of bilateral agreements usually involve at least one country not party to the Paris Convention.\n\nAn example may help to understand the legal concept of priority right. The example presented here illustrates the case of the priority right in patent law, but the example could be extended to trademarks, taking into account the difference of priority period (12 months for patents, 6 months for trademarks).\nLet us imagine the following scenario. Ms. A has invented an improved mousetrap and decides to apply for a patent on her mousetrap. She first files a German patent application on July 15, 2006. Starting from July 16, 2006, Ms. A has then one year to file patent applications in other countries to be able to benefit from the date of filing of the German patent application in these other countries. If Ms. A files on July 15, 2007 a patent application in the United Kingdom (UK) for her mousetrap, and if, upon filing the patent application in the United Kingdom, Ms. A claims the priority of the earliest German patent application filed one year before, the date for examining the novelty and inventive step requirements in the United Kingdom will be July 15, 2006, not July 15, 2007.\n\nThis means that any disclosure to the public of the improved mousetrap on or after July 15, 2006 (by Ms. A or anyone else) will not prejudice Ms. A's patent application in the United Kingdom. If Mr. B independently invents around January 2007 the same improved mousetrap and decides to directly publish in February 2007 a paper explaining how his new mousetrap works, the publication of the paper by Mr. B will not affect the novelty of Ms. A's patent application in the United Kingdom, even though the publication of Mr. B's paper takes place before the actual date of filing of Ms. A's UK patent application.\n\nThe priority system, including this one-year priority right, enables Ms. A to file a patent application as soon as possible in one country (in this case in Germany, and in the German language), and gives her one-year to do whatever is necessary to file patent applications in other countries (translating the text of the application, filling the application forms, sending the translated application and forms to the foreign patent offices, collecting the funds to pay the filing fees, and so on) without being affected by any intervening publication. The actual date of filing in the United Kingdom remains July 15, 2007, and this is the date from which the 20-year duration of any ensuing patent is calculated. The example also applies to many other countries, such as to all countries which are party to the Paris Convention.\n\nThe extent to which a partial priority can be acknowledged for a single claim in a patent application -i.e., only for a part of the claim, for which the subject-matter is disclosed in the priority document- is a delicate question.\n\n"}
{"id": "40704397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40704397", "title": "Promotion of Administrative Justice Act, 2000", "text": "Promotion of Administrative Justice Act, 2000\n\nThe Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA) is an important piece of South African legislation, and the cornerstone of administrative law in South Africa.\n\nThe South African Law Commission’s draft Administrative Justice Bill described the concept of \"administrative action\" widely: any action or decision performed by an organ of state or any exercise of public power other than executive, legislative or judicial action. The definition of administrative action ultimately enacted in PAJA was \"considerably more complicated and qualified.\" Section 1 of the PAJA defines administrative action as \"any decision taken, or any failure to take a decision, by\n\n\nCurrie and De Waal write that, \"although one begins with the definition of ‘administrative action’, the enquiry into the scope of application of the Act does not end there.\" Because administrative action as defined is confined to \"decisions,\" \"one must also consider the definition of 'decision' in s 1.\" In turn, because the definition of \"decision\" confines decisions to conduct \"of an administrative nature\" in terms of an \"empowering provision,\" \"it must be read with the definition of 'empowering provision.'\" Finally, because \"decision\" includes failure to take a decision, the definition must be read with the definition of \"failure\" (which includes a refusal to take a decision).\n\nIn summary, an action will qualify as administrative action under the PAJA if it is\n\nProcedurally fair in terms of Promotion of Administrative justice Act 3 of 2000 is discussing as follows; \nSections 3 (1) provides that an administrative action which materially and adversely affects the rights or legitimate expectations of any person must be procedurally fair. (2)(a) A fair administrative procedure depends on the circumstances of each case.\nProcedurally fair in terms of Promotion of Administrative justice Act 3 of 2000 is discussing as follows; \nSections 3 (1) provides that an administrative action which materially and adversely affects the rights or legitimate expectations of any person must be procedurally fair. (2)(a) A fair administrative procedure depends on the circumstances of each case.\n\nIn 1993 Baxter argued that a\n\ngenuinely participatory, responsive, accountable, affordable and efficient system of administrative decision-making is attainable in South Africa, and every South African, no matter how poor or disadvantaged, is entitled- to nothing less. The new system of government must, of course, be tailored to the limited resources available. But those multitudes of South Africans, who have too long had to endure the insult of second- and third-class citizenship, should not now be prepared to settle for second- or third-class administrative justice and accountability.\n\nCora Hoexter believes that \"the Constitution and, to a lesser extent, the PAJA have brought about a good deal of the reform Baxter hoped for. Indeed, in many ways expectations reasonably held in the years before 1994 were exceeded by the sweeping nature of the constitutional reform that actually took place.\" The Constitution offers a multitude of checks on the use of public power at every level, and the administrative system today is replete with safeguards against secrecy, arbitrariness and maladministration. \"While some of these safeguards may not be functioning optimally, it may seem absurd to ask for more at this stage of South Africa’s development.\"\n\nOn the other hand, \"there is no room for complacency—particularly given the growing menace of public corruption, which is rightly regarded as the greatest challenge currently confronting South Africa.\" The problem of corruption and its pernicious effects have been acknowledged by the Constitutional Court. In \"Glenister v President of the Republic of South Africa\", the court noted that corruption blatantly undermines the democratic ethos, the institutions of democracy, the rule of law and the foundational values of South Africa's nascent constitutional project, fuelling maladministration and public fraudulence and imperilling the capacity of the state to fulfil its obligations to respect, protect, promote and fulfil all the rights in the Bill of Rights. The court emphasised that corruption demands \"an integrated and comprehensive\" response from the legal system. \"Such a response would certainly include strengthening and improving the safeguards.\"\n\n\"Unfortunately,\" several important innovations proposed by the Law Reform Commission in its draft Bill of 1999 were rejected or heavily watered down by the legislature when the PAJA was enacted early in 2000, either for lack of funding or for fear of the burden some of these proposals would have imposed on an unprepared government. For instance, a requirement that administrators take steps to communicate their rules to those likely to be affected by them was dropped from the PAJA altogether—\"rather pointlessly, too, for the accessibility of such rules is an express requirement of the Constitution as well as an ineluctable requirement of the rule of law.\" Where the Law Commission’s draft Bill created an Administrative Review Council (ARC) and placed it under a duty to make recommendations for reform on certain subjects within two or three years, the PAJA merely gives the Minister discretion to make regulations establishing an advisory council which may advise her on certain reforms. This power has not been exercised. The idea of non-judicial review, for instance, remains \"a purely theoretical possibility.\" That is \"unimportant, perhaps, but what is especially regrettable is that no progress seems to have been made with the reform of the existing system of administrative appeals. Reform is urgently needed in this area if the system is ever to function as a worthy adjunct and alternative to judicial review.\"\n\nSeveral innovations in relation to rulemaking, inspired by the groundbreaking work of both O’Regan and Baxter, were also watered down in the Act. One was a requirement that the State Law Adviser compile and publish protocols for the drafting of rules and standards and, in conjunction with the ARC, provide training to the drafters of rules and standards. Earlier versions of the Bill went even further than this in providing for the establishment of a Central Drafting Office, a proposal made in 1993 by O’Regan. This office would not only have performed the functions allocated to the State Law Adviser in the final Bill, but would also have been responsible for scrutinising the text of rules and standards and making recommendations to advance the clarity of the text. In its 1999 Report on Administrative Justice, the Commission explained that the proposals were scrapped because \"the Department of Justice has suggested that the functions of the Office can better and more cheaply be performed by several specially appointed State Law Advisers.\" The Portfolio Committee on Justice \"unfortunately jettisoned the less onerous and less expensive option as well.\"\n\nOther reforms in the Bill included a requirement that administrators compile and maintain up-to-date registers and indexes of rules and standards used by them, and a duty on the ARC to keep a national index of rules and standards which would be published on the internet as well as in the Government Gazette. Earlier versions of the Bill were \"even more ambitious,\" in that they provided for the automatic lapsing of rules and standards within certain periods in terms of \"sunset\" provisions. These were dropped by the Law Commission in favour of a clause requiring the ARC to investigate the feasibility of sunset clauses. Again, PAJA is \"more cautious still.\" In terms of it the Minister may ask the advisory council (if he ever establishes such a body) to advise him on matters such as the appropriateness of publishing uniform rules and standards, the maintenance of indexes and registers and \"the appropriateness of requiring administrators, from time to time, to consider the continuance of standards administered by them and of prescribing measures for the automatic lapsing of rules and standards.\" It is \"encouraging,\" writes Hoexter, that the scrutiny and control of delegated legislation are still being investigated by Parliament as well as by the Law Commission, \"but frustrating that some of the interim recommendations made by Parliament’s Joint Subcommittee on Delegated Legislation are almost identical to recommendations made by the Law Commission and rejected by the Portfolio Committee on Justice more than a decade ago.\"\n\n\"Fortunately,\" she adds, not all the innovations proposed by the Law Commission were subject\nto this fate. However, in the case of certain reforms \"it is still too soon to tell what effect they are having on the administrative system, while others are necessarily of a continuing nature.\" PAJA’s introduction of essentially voluntary procedures to facilitate public participation falls into the first category. \"It is too early to say whether notice and comment procedures, and public inquiries or other participatory procedures\nare even likely to be used by administrators.\" Likewise, \"one can only speculate about the future effects of the code of good administrative conduct.\" A code was produced recently in accordance with section 10(5A) and (6) of the PAJA, and has been accessible as a draft document for some time, but is not yet in force.\n\nIn relation to reforms of a continuing nature, \"the most important are surely educating South Africans on administrative law and, more specifically, giving administrators training on the PAJA.\" Notwithstanding the downgrading of the Law Commission’s proposal in this regard, \"progress was made at an early stage.\" Justice College, the training institution of the Department of Justice, began holding train-the-trainer workshops and courses for administrators shortly after the PAJA was enacted. Initial awareness-raising workshops allowed the trainers to identify problem areas which were then addressed in practical training. The main objectives of the training were to ensure that participants had a clear understanding of the Act and would be able to comply with its provisions in practice; and to motivate participants to implement the Act, which included changing attitudes regarding the way administrative decisions are made. Wessels recalls that the workshops revealed some quite alarming ignorance, such as the fact that many administrators had never set eyes on the empowering legislation in terms of which they were making decisions. \"Anecdotes like this one,\" writes Hoexter, \"indicate the importance of sustaining and expanding educational initiatives, several of which are currently being implemented under the auspices of the Department of Justice.\"\n\nIn spite of all that has been achieved, \"it is clear that work remains to be done.\" However, the prospects of further programmatic reform of administrative law and the administrative system are \"slim.\" Doubts were expressed some years ago as to whether the Department of Justice has the capacity to take on the various tasks listed in section 10(2) of the PAJA. In the absence of an administrative-law champion such as an ARC, \"South Africa is reliant on the will of the Minister of Justice to push for reform and on the government’s preparedness to provide funding for such reform. Given the many challenges currently confronting the Department of Justice, the refinement of administrative justice seems unlikely to become a priority.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18935551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935551", "title": "Public domain", "text": "Public domain\n\nThe public domain consists of all the creative works to which no exclusive intellectual property rights apply. Those rights may have expired, been forfeited, expressly waived, or may be inapplicable.\n\nThe works of William Shakespeare and Beethoven, and most early silent films, are in the public domain either by virtue of their having been created before copyright existed, or by their copyright term having expired. Some works are not covered by copyright, and are therefore in the public domain—among them the formulae of Newtonian physics, cooking recipes, and all computer software created prior to 1974. Other works are actively dedicated by their authors to the public domain (see waiver); some examples include reference implementations of cryptographic algorithms, the image-processing software ImageJ, created by the National Institutes of Health, and the CIA's \"World Factbook\". The term \"public domain\" is not normally applied to situations where the creator of a work retains residual rights, in which case use of the work is referred to as \"under license\" or \"with permission\".\n\nAs rights vary by country and jurisdiction, a work may be subject to rights in one country and be in the public domain in another. Some rights depend on registrations on a country-by-country basis, and the absence of registration in a particular country, if required, gives rise to public-domain status for a work in that country. The term public domain may also be interchangeably used with other imprecise or undefined terms such as the \"public sphere\" or \"commons\", including concepts such as the \"commons of the mind\", the \"intellectual commons\", and the \"information commons\".\n\nAlthough the term \"domain\" did not come into use until the mid-18th century, the concept \"can be traced back to the ancient Roman Law, as a preset system included in the property right system.\" The Romans had a large proprietary rights system where they defined \"many things that cannot be privately owned\" as \"res nullius\", \"res communes\", \"res publicae\" and \"res universitatis\". The term \"res nullius\" was defined as things not yet appropriated. The term \"res communes\" was defined as \"things that could be commonly enjoyed by mankind, such as air, sunlight and ocean.\" The term \"res publicae\" referred to things that were shared by all citizens, and the term \"res universitatis\" meant things that were owned by the municipalities of Rome. When looking at it from a historical perspective, one could say the construction of the idea of \"public domain\" sprouted from the concepts of \"res communes\", \"res publicae\", and \"res universitatis\" in early Roman law.\n\nWhen the first early copyright law was first established in Britain with the Statute of Anne in 1710, public domain did not appear. However, similar concepts were developed by British and French jurists in the 18th century. Instead of \"public domain\", they used terms such as \"publici juris\" or \"propriété publique\" to describe works that were not covered by copyright law.\n\nThe phrase \"fall in the public domain\" can be traced to mid-19th century France to describe the end of copyright term. The French poet Alfred de Vigny equated the expiration of copyright with a work falling \"into the sink hole of public domain\" and if the public domain receives any attention from intellectual property lawyers it is still treated as little more than that which is left when intellectual property rights, such as copyright, patents, and, expire or are abandoned. In this historical context Paul Torremans describes copyright as a, \"little coral reef of private right jutting up from the ocean of the public domain.\" Copyright law differs by country, and the American legal scholar Pamela Samuelson has described the public domain as being \"different sizes at different times in different countries\".\n\nDefinitions of the boundaries of the public domain in relation to copyright, or intellectual property more generally, regard the public domain as a negative space; that is, it consists of works that are no longer in copyright term or were never protected by copyright law. According to James Boyle this definition underlines common usage of the term \"public domain\" and equates the public domain to public property and works in copyright to private property. However, the usage of the term \"public domain\" can be more granular, including for example uses of works in copyright permitted by copyright exceptions. Such a definition regards work in copyright as private property subject to fair-use rights and limitation on ownership. A conceptual definition comes from Lange, who focused on what the public domain should be: \"it should be a place of sanctuary for individual creative expression, a sanctuary conferring affirmative protection against the forces of private appropriation that threatened such expression\". Patterson and Lindberg described the public domain not as a \"territory\", but rather as a concept: \"[T]here are certain materials – the air we breathe, sunlight, rain, space, life, creations, thoughts, feelings, ideas, words, numbers – not subject to private ownership. The materials that compose our cultural heritage must be free for all living to use no less than matter necessary for biological survival.\" The term public domain may also be interchangeably used with other imprecise or undefined terms such as the \"public sphere\" or \"commons\", including concepts such as the \"commons of the mind\", the \"intellectual commons\", and the \"information commons\".\n\nA public-domain book is a book with no copyright, a book that was created without a license, or a book where its copyrights expired or have been forfeited. \n\nIn most countries the term of protection of copyright lasts until January first, 70 years after the death of the latest living author. The longest copyright term is in Mexico, which has life plus 100 years for all deaths since July 1928.\n\nA notable exception is the United States, where every book and tale written prior to 1923 is in the public domain; American copyrights last for 95 years for books written between 1923 and 1978.\n\nFor example: the works of Jane Austen, Lewis Carroll, and Edgar Allan Poe are in the public domain worldwide as they all died over one hundred years ago.\n\nProject Gutenberg makes tens of thousands of public domain books available online as ebooks.\n\nPeople have been creating music for millennia. The first musical notation system, the Music of Mesopotamia system, was created 4000 years ago. Guido of Arezzo introduced Latin musical notation in the 10th century. This laid the foundation for the preservation of global music in the public domain, a distinction formalized alongside copyright systems in the 17th Century. Musicians copyrighted their publications of musical notation as literary writings, but performing copyrighted pieces and creating derivative works were not restricted by early copyright laws. Copying was widespread, in compliance with the law, but expansions of those laws intended to benefit literary works and responding to commercial music recording technology's reproducability have lead to stricter rules. Relatively recently, a normative view that copying in music is not desirable and lazy has become popular among professional musicians.\n\nU.S. copyright laws distinguish between musical compositions and sound recordings, the former of which refers to melody, notation and/or lyrics created by a composer and/or lyricist, including sheet music, and the latter referring to a recording performed by an artist, including a CD, LP, or digital sound file. Musical compositions fall under the same general rules as other works, and anything published prior to 1922 is considered public domain. Sound recordings, on the other hand, are subject to different rules and are not eligible for public domain status until 2049-2067, depending on the date and location of publishing.\n\nThe Musopen project records music in the public domain for the purposes of making the music available to the general public in a high-quality audio format. Online musical archives preserve collections of classical music recorded by Musopen and offer them for download/distribution as a public service. \n\nA public-domain film is a film that was released to public domain by its author or because its copyright has expired. In 2016 there are more than 2,000 films on public domain in every genre, from musicals to romance, horror to animated movies and noir to western movies.\n\nPamela Samuelson has identified eight \"values\" that can arise from information and works in the public domain.\n\nPossible values include:\n\nDerivative works include translations, musical arrangements, and dramatizations of a work, as well as other forms of transformation or adaptation. Copyrighted works may not be used for derivative works without permission from the copyright owner, while public domain works can be freely used for derivative works without permission. Artworks that are public domain may also be reproduced photographically or artistically or used as the basis of new, interpretive works. Works derived from public domain works can be copyrighted.\n\nOnce works enter into the public domain, derivative works such as adaptations in book and film may increase noticeably, as happened with Frances Hodgson Burnett's novel \"The Secret Garden\", which became public domain in 1987. By 1999, the plays of Shakespeare, all public domain, had been used in more than 420 feature-length films. In addition to straightforward adaptation, they have been used as the launching point for transformative retellings such as Tom Stoppard's \"Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead\" and Troma Entertainment's \"Romeo and Juliet\". Marcel Duchamp's \"L.H.O.O.Q.\" is a derivative of Leonardo da Vinci's \"Mona Lisa\", one of thousands of derivative works based on the public domain painting.\n\nSome works may never fully lapse into the public domain. A perpetual crown copyright is held for the Authorized King James Version of the Bible in the UK.\n\nWhile the copyright has expired for the Peter Pan works by J. M. Barrie (the play \"Peter Pan, or the Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up\" and the novel \"Peter and Wendy\") in the United Kingdom, it was granted a special exception under the Copyright, Designs, and Patents Act 1988 (Schedule 6) that requires royalties to be paid for commercial performances, publications and broadcasts of the story of Peter Pan within the UK, as long as Great Ormond Street Hospital (to whom Barrie gave the copyright) continues to exist.\n\nIn a paying public domain regime, works that have entered the public domain after their copyright has expired, or traditional knowledge and traditional cultural expressions that have never been subject to copyright, are still subject to royalties payable to the state or to an authors' association. The user does not have to seek permission to copy, present or perform the work, but does have to pay the fee. Typically the royalties are directed to support of living artists.\n\nThe Creative Commons proposed in 2010 the \"Public Domain Mark\" (PDM) as symbol to indicate that a work is free of known copyright restrictions and therefore in the public domain. The public domain mark is analogous to the copyright symbol, which acts as copyright notice. The Europeana databases use it, and for instance on the Wikimedia Commons in February 2016 2.9 million works (~10% of all works) are listed as \"PDM\".\n\nThe underlying idea that is expressed or manifested in the creation of a work generally cannot be the subject of copyright law (see idea–expression divide). Mathematical formulae will therefore generally form part of the public domain, to the extent that their expression in the form of software is not covered by copyright.\n\nWorks created before the existence of copyright and patent laws also form part of the public domain. For example, the Bible and the inventions of Archimedes are in the public domain. However, translations or new formulations of these works may be copyrighted in themselves.\n\nDetermination of whether a copyright has expired depends on an examination of the copyright in its source country.\n\nIn the United States, determining whether a work has entered the public domain or is still under copyright can be quite complex, primarily because copyright terms have been extended multiple times and in different ways—shifting over the course of the 20th century from a fixed-term based on first publication, with a possible renewal term, to a term extending to 50, then 70, years after the death of the author. The claim that \"pre-1923 works are in the public domain\" is correct only for published works; unpublished works are under federal copyright for at least the life of the author plus 70 years.\n\nIn most other countries that are signatories to the Berne Convention, copyright term is based on the life of the author, and extends to 50 or 70 years beyond the death of the author. (See List of countries' copyright lengths.)\n\nLegal traditions differ on whether a work in the public domain can have its copyright restored. In the European Union, the Copyright Duration Directive was applied retroactively, restoring and extending the terms of copyright on material previously in the public domain. Term extensions by the U.S. and Australia generally have not removed works from the public domain, but rather delayed the addition of works to it. However, the United States moved away from that tradition with the Uruguay Round Agreements Act, which removed from the public domain many foreign-sourced works that had previously not been in copyright in the US for failure to comply with US-based formalities requirements. Consequently, in the US, foreign-sourced works and US-sourced works are now treated differently, with foreign-sourced works remaining under copyright regardless of compliance with formalities, while domestically-sourced works may be in the public domain if they failed to comply with then-existing formalities requirements—a situation described as odd by some scholars, and unfair by some US-based rightsholders.\n\nWorks of the United States Government and various other governments are excluded from copyright law and may therefore be considered to be in the public domain in their respective countries. They may also be in the public domain in other countries as well. The legal scholar Melville Nimmer has written that \"it is axiomatic that material in the public domain is not protected by copyright, even when incorporated into a copyrighted work\".\n\nBefore 1988 in the US, works could be easily given into the public domain by just releasing it without an explicit Copyright notice. With the Berne Convention Implementation Act of 1988 (and the earlier Copyright Act of 1976, which went into effect in 1978), all works were by default copyright protected and needed to be actively given into public domain by a waiver statement/anti-copyright can call notice. Not all legal systems have processes for reliably donating works to the public domain, e.g. civil law of continental Europe. This may even \"effectively prohibit any attempt by copyright owners to surrender rights automatically conferred by law, particularly moral rights\".\n\nAn alternative is for copyright holders to issue a licence which irrevocably grants as many rights as possible to the general public. Real public domain makes licenses unnecessary, as no owner/author is required to grant permission (\"Permission culture\"). There are multiple licenses which aim to release works into the public domain. In 2000 the WTFPL was released as a public domain like software license. In 2009 the Creative commons released the CC0, which was created for compatibility with law domains which have no concept of \"dedicating into public domain\". This is achieved by a public domain waiver statement and a fall-back all-permissive license, in case the waiver is not possible. The Unlicense, published around 2010, has a focus on an Anti-copyright message. The Unlicense offers a public domain waiver text with a fall-back public domain-like license inspired by permissive licenses but without attribution.\n\nIn October 2014 the Open Knowledge Foundation recommends the Creative Commons CC0 license to dedicate content to the public domain, and the \"Open Data Commons Public Domain Dedication and License (PDDL)\" for data.\n\nIn most countries, the term of rights for patents is 20 years, after which the invention becomes part of the public domain. In the United States, the contents of patents are considered valid and enforceable for 20 years from the date of filing within the United States or 20 years from the earliest date of filing if under 35 USC 120, 121, or 365(c). However, the \"text\" and any \"illustration\" within a patent, provided the illustrations are essentially line drawings and do not in any substantive way reflect the \"personality\" of the person drawing them, are not subject to copyright protection. This is separate from the \"patent\" rights just mentioned.\n\nA trademark registration may remain in force indefinitely, or expire without specific regard to its age. For a trademark registration to remain valid, the owner must continue to use it. In some circumstances, such as disuse, failure to assert trademark rights, or common usage by the public without regard for its intended use, it could become generic, and therefore part of the public domain.\n\nBecause trademarks are registered with governments, some countries or trademark registries may recognize a mark, while others may have determined that it is generic and not allowable as a trademark in that registry. For example, the drug \"acetylsalicylic acid\" (2-acetoxybenzoic acid) is better known as \"aspirin\" in the United States—a generic term. In Canada, however, \"Aspirin\", with an uppercase A, is still a trademark of the German company Bayer, while aspirin, with a lowercase \"a\", is not. Bayer lost the trademark in the United States, the UK and France after World War I, as part of the Treaty of Versailles. So many copycat products entered the marketplace during the war that it was deemed generic just three years later.\n\nBayer also lost the trademark in the same jurisdictions for \"Heroin\" which it trademarked a year before it trademarked Aspirin.\n\nAlthough Hormel resigned itself to genericide, it has fought attempts by other companies to register \"spam\" as a trademark in relation to computer products.\n\nPublic Domain Day is an observance of when copyrights expire and works enter into the public domain. This legal transition of copyright works into the public domain usually happens every year on 1 January based on the individual copyright laws of each country.\n\nThe observance of a \"Public Domain Day\" was initially informal; the earliest known mention was in 2004 by Wallace McLean (a Canadian public domain activist), with support for the idea echoed by Lawrence Lessig. a Public Domain Day website lists the authors whose works are entering the public domain. There are activities in countries around the world by various organizations all under the banner Public Domain Day.\n\n"}
{"id": "25585714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25585714", "title": "Quality Bicycle Products", "text": "Quality Bicycle Products\n\nQuality Bicycle Products is the largest distributor of bicycle parts and accessories in the bicycle industry, with revenues of $150 million in 2008. In addition to wholesaling bicycles and components from other manufacturers, QBP owns and manufactures several brands of its own. QBP also participates in activities which support its community through cycling advocacy and green building.\n\nFounded by Steve Flagg and Mary Henrickson in 1981, QBP operated from a small office in St. Paul, MN. The company did $100,000 of sales during its first year. In the second year sales reached $250,000 and in 1983 the company received half a million dollars in sales. Early on, the company's main product was its mountain bikes, and QBP also specialized in importing hard-to-find mountain-bike parts from suppliers in Japan. In 1984 QBP hired its first employee and sold $1 million in parts. In 1996 QBP purchased a warehouse on its current site in West Bloomington.\n\nQBP purchased Salsa Cycles in 1997, a California-based mountain-bike manufacturer. The following year, QBP entered the emerging single-speed bike market with its in-house designed Singleator chain tensioner. Later in 1998, this product and the new Rat Ride single-speed frame (soon renamed the 1X1) helped launch the company’s new start-up, Surly Bikes. After that, the company continued developing brands for under-served markets, adding specialty parts with Problem Solvers, value parts and accessories with Dimension, and high-end components with Winwood. QBP also became the exclusive U.S. distributor for Jagwire, a Taiwan-based manufacturer of bicycle brake and derailleur components including pads, cables and cable housing.\n\nResponding to the growing trend of bike commuting and “transportation-oriented” cycling, QBP created the Civia bike brand in 2007. The following year, QBP transformed Wheelhouse, its dealer-oriented wheel-building service, into Handspun, a consumer-oriented manufacturer of hand-trued and custom-built wheels. QBP also founded All-City, which offers single-speed and fixed-gear bikes, parts and accessories for urban bicycling. In 2007 QBP received the first annual Carbon Buster Award from U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar. In 2009, the company achieved Platinum-level status, the LAB’s highest designation. QBP has opened a second distribution center in Ogden, Utah in the spring of 2010 that has also been awarded LEED Gold certification by the U.S. Green Building Council, for its use of energy-saving techniques like smart lighting. QBP was named one of America's Top Work Places by \"Outside Magazine\" in 2011. Later that year QBP opened a third distribution center in Middletown, PA, and then moved to new facility in Lancaster, PA in January 2015.\n\nIn 2015 Flagg retired from his position as CEO and was replaced with Rich Tauer, who previously served as vice-president of marketing and sales. Flagg continued on as the company's chairman. That year the company opened offices in Taiwan, bringing the company to 690 employees. In 2016 the company opened a fourth facility in Reno, Nevada.\n\nThe company owns nineteen brands including Salsa, Surly, All-City, 45North, Handspun, Foundry, Civia, Whisky, MSW, Problem Solvers, Dimension, Mechanical Threads, R12, Q-Tubes, Cogburn, Buzzy's and iSSi. QBP is also the exclusive U.S. distributor of Lazer Helmets, a Belgian manufacturer of high performance bicycle and snow helmets, and through its Q-Active division, the company distributes products to independent ski, run and outdoor retailers. QBP entered a distribution agreement with Fyxation in 2011. The company distributes both bicycles themselves and bicycle parts, in addition to outdoor gear.\n\nEach February QBP hosts Frostbike, an industry tradeshow and educational forum for bicycle vendors and retailers. Frostbike also offers numerous business and technical seminars. The company provides “environmental and efficiency-oriented innovation” for its employees as well, including its Great Results Improving Processes (GRIP) program, which combines principles from Six Sigma, Lean, Kaizen and Total Quality Management, which the company claims saved it approximately $2.2 million in 2008. The company also hosts service summits for its employees where seminars are given on bicycle service issues and trends.\n\nThe QBP Commuter Program provides employees that bike or use alternative transportation with “credits” they can use to purchase company products or redeem for lunches from local restaurants. The company also has on-site showers, lockers, a free towel service, a fully stocked workshop for repairs and plentiful indoor and outdoor bike parking. The company also runs Greenlightride.com, an interactive website developed to support its competitive public Commuter Bike League, where cyclists record their miles, create teams, track statistics, and network with other riders. In 2008, 15 percent of the company’s 453 employees biked to work, averaging a one-way commute of and logging a collective 325,000 miles. In 2009 the Bicycle League of America awarded the company Platinum Level status as a Bicycle Friendly business.\n"}
{"id": "37669247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37669247", "title": "Republicans for Immigration Reform", "text": "Republicans for Immigration Reform\n\nRepublicans for Immigration Reform is a SuperPAC which aims at pushing for immigration reform in the United States and improving the Republican Party’s standing among Hispanics.\n\nPromoted in early 2012 by former US Secretary of Commerce Carlos Gutierrez, its advocates hope it will help repair the political damage left by years of anti-illegal-immigrant rhetoric that has dominated GOP primaries and alienated crucial Hispanic voters. Another supporter is Charles Spies, a member of the PAC Restore Our Future. Gutierrez believes that \"the far right of this party has taken the party to a place that it doesn't belong\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45177889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45177889", "title": "Reyes v R", "text": "Reyes v R\n\nReyes v R is a 2002 Judicial Committee of the Privy Council (JCPC) case in which it was held that it was unconstitutional in Belize for capital punishment to be the mandatory sentence for murder. The JCPC held that because the Constitution of Belize prohibits \"inhuman or degrading punishment\", following a murder conviction, a trial judge must have discretion to impose a lesser penalty than death by hanging; capital punishment may be applied only in those cases that contain aggravating factors as compared to other murder cases.\n\nThe case was decided with \"R v Hughes\" and \"Fox v R\", cases on the same issue on appeal from Saint Lucia and Saint Kitts and Nevis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2009811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2009811", "title": "Right of possession", "text": "Right of possession\n\nThe right of possession (\"jura possessionis\") means that someone currently holds something in hand and this person may be the temporary keeper or the long-term owner of an object.\n\nThis term is most commonly used in regards to property and is a land-backed asset. This legal tradition holds that whoever occupies property and uses it for its social function has the right to possess it.\n\nSeveral examples have been given of the right of :\n"}
{"id": "36347037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36347037", "title": "Romanian presidential impeachment referendum, 2012", "text": "Romanian presidential impeachment referendum, 2012\n\nA referendum on impeaching President Traian Băsescu was held in Romania on 29 July 2012. The referendum was required after Parliament voted in favour of impeaching Băsescu on 6 July, and had to take place within a month. It was the second referendum on impeaching Băsescu, the first having been held in May 2007, in which 74% of voters chose to keep him in office. Băsescu was later narrowly re-elected in 2009.\n\nThe parliament of Romania impeached the former president and called on the nation to dismiss Băsescu on a variety of charges, but Băsescu dismissed the poll as a \"putsch\" and asked the public to boycott it. Polls showed a majority of Romanians favoring the impeachment of the President, but the turnout was estimated to be around 46%, thus rendering the referendum invalid. The Constitutional court has the final verdict in the case of the validity of the referendum. Final results from the Central Electoral Bureau were published on 1 August 2012. On 2 August 2012, the Court announced that a verdict for the validity of the referendum will be pronounced after 12 September 2012. Until that date, all the authorities have to clear up the electoral lists, in order to correctly calculate the voter turnout. Finally, the verdict will be presented in a joint session of Parliament. Meanwhile, the Constitutional Court rescheduled the verdict for 31 August 2012. A second rescheduling placed the verdict on 21 August 2012. The Constitutional Court of Romania subsequently declared the referendum invalid, reinstating Băsescu as president of Romania, which succeeded on 28 August.\n\nBăsescu's political rival, Prime Minister Victor Ponta, accused him of overstepping his powers through illegal phone-tapping, use of national intelligence services against political enemies, and pressuring prosecutors in criminal cases. The president's popularity had fallen due to his support for strong austerity measures and perceptions that his appointments were guided by cronyism. Băsescu responded by calling the referendum a putsch attempt by his opponent, who had previously been criticized for dismissing the speakers in both chambers of the Romanian Parliament and the country's ombudsman. He asked the public to boycott the poll.\n\nOn the day before the vote in Parliament, the government changed the referendum law to enable an impeachment referendum to be valid if a majority of voters voted in favour. Previously the law required at least 50% of eligible voters to vote in favour. Following criticism of his tactics from the European Union, which accused him of \"undermining the rule of law\", Ponta accepted the ruling by the Constitutional Court to require a turnout of 50% plus one to render the result of the referendum valid.\n\nVoters were asked the question \"Do you agree with the dismissal of the President of Romania Mr Traian Băsescu?\" (). Exit polls showed more than 80 percent voted for the impeachment of the president.\n\nThe turnout at 23:00 (poll closing time) was estimated to be of 45.92% with a ±3% error margin. This was based on data from 2,889 of the 18,242 polling stations. This does not take into account the special electoral lists for citizens voting outside their residence area (especially those on vacation throughout the country), unmovable and abroad. The turnout of under 50% rendered the referendum results as invalid even though 86% of those who voted supported the impeachment.\n\nThe turnout was estimated to have been around 51.6% in rural areas and 41.8% in cities, with Bucharest at 40.0%. The highest turnout was reported in Muntenia with a turnout of over 50% and some counties having over 60%, including Olt, 74.7%; Mehedinți, 70.5%; Teleorman, 70.2%; Giurgiu, 60.7%; and Vâlcea, 60.4%. Eight polling stations in Olt County had a turnout of over 100%, the highest being 126%. In other parts of Romania the turnout was below 50%, with the lowest in Transylvania. The counties with the lowest turnout were Harghita, 11.6%; Covasna, 20.6%; Satu Mare, 28.2%; Mureș, 34.0%; and Arad, 35.0%.\n\nAfter the first results were published, president Băsescu declared that \"the flame of democracy has remained alight. Romanians have rejected the coup d'etat.\" Ponta declared that his government \"will respect all decisions of the Constitutional Court and will act as a factor of stability in the next period, regardless of whether the referendum is validated or not\". Ponta went on to declare that he is \"not going to seek confrontation with Basescu (...) everyone is going to lose if we are continuing to fight,” and pledged not to \"interfere with the president's prerogatives.\" He also said, however, that further cooperation with Băsescu would be impossible after the vote against him, stating \"We have nothing more to discuss with a man rejected by the citizens\". In a letter to the EU, Ponta pledged to accept the ruling of the Court if it will declare the referendum invalid. However, acting president Crin Antonescu, called on the Constitutional Court to take into account the 2011 census figures which he claims better represent \"reality\", than the current figures of the official electoral register, which would result in a different figure for the voter turnout.\n\nAs the results dropped in, relatively peaceful protests were organized in the University Square of Bucharest. People also gathered in front of the National Theatre and the Cotroceni Palace and chanted slogans against president Băsescu.\n\nAfter publication of partial results by the Central Electoral Bureau, following which the quorum was not comprised for Băsescu's dismissal, former President of Romania Ion Iliescu wanted to clarify for RFI that the Constitutional Court is compelled, taking account of European electoral common laws and the Venice Commission's recommendation that no threshold should be imposed, to consider the 29 July referendum valid.\n\nThe Romanian constitutional court subsequently declared the referendum invalid by a vote of 6–3 due to the fact that turnout did not reach 50%. The move reinstated Băsescu as president of Romania. Acting President Crin Antonescu, however, said that Băsescu was an \"illegitimate\" leader because he was suspended by parliament. As a reaction to the verdict, hundreds of protesters took to the streets in Bucharest, calling for Băsescu's resignation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32161809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32161809", "title": "Sheridan v. United States", "text": "Sheridan v. United States\n\nSheridan v. United States, 487 U.S. 392 (1988), was a U.S. Supreme Court case concerning what constitutes a claim \"arising out of\" an assault or battery within the meaning of the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA). The Supreme Court held that the FTCA's intentional tort exception did not apply. \n\nNaval medical aide Carr became intoxicated after his shift, and three of his co-workers found him face down on a hospital floor. They attempted to bring him to the emergency room, but he broke away and showed that he had a gun. The three co-workers fled and did nothing more. The intoxicated serviceman then fired several single shots into a car on a public street near Bethesda Naval Hospital and injured plaintiffs and damaged their car.\n\nWhile 28 U.S.C. § 1346(b) of the Federal Tort Claims Act gives individuals the right to sue the federal government, the government is generally not liable for intentional torts committed by its employees, as 28 U.S.C. § 2680(h) takes away that right for injuries arising out of assault or battery. However, the plaintiffs argued that the co-workers were the negligent party in allowing Carr to continue in his drunken stupor. The government would have been liable under Massachusetts law, and the government would have been liable if Carr were not a government employee. However, the District Court held that because Carr was a government employee, prior Fourth Circuit precedent was a bar to recovery. The Fourth Circuit upheld the decision of the trial court.\n\nIn a majority opinion by Justice Stevens, the Court noted that the injury arose from two claims: negligence by Carr's co-workers and assault by Carr.\n\nIn \"United States v. Muniz\", 374 U.S. 150 (1963), the Supreme Court held that the intentional tort exception did not apply when prison guards were negligent in preventing a prisoner from assault. This case could have been decided because the claim arose out of the negligence of the prisoner guards, and the assault was just the natural causal effect of the negligence, or because the Supreme Court held that if the only issue was whether the Government should be held liable for Carr's action, the intentional tort exception would preclude litigation under the FTCA.\n\nHowever, the \"Government voluntarily adopted regulations that prohibit the possession of firearms on the naval base and that require personnel to report the present of any such firearm, and by further voluntarily undertaking to provide care to a person who was visibly drunk and visibly armed, the Government assumed responsibility to 'perform its good Samaritan task in a careful manner.'\" \"Indian Towing Co. v. United States\", 350 U.S. 61, 65 (1955).\n\nCarr’s status as a federal employee, as well as his act being intentional as opposed to negligent, was irrelevant since the co-workers' negligence was at issue.\n\n"}
{"id": "22887545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22887545", "title": "Singapore Academy of Law", "text": "Singapore Academy of Law\n\nThe Singapore Academy of Law (Abbreviation: SAL; Chinese: 新加坡法律协会) is a statutory body in Singapore. SAL is a promotion and development agency for Singapore’s legal industry. SAL also undertakes statutory functions such as stakeholding services and the appointment of Senior Counsel, Commissioners for Oaths and Notaries Public.\n\nSAL has 3 sub-brands: Singapore Law Watch, Academy Publishing and LawNet (known in Malaysia as Legal Workbench).\n\nSAL also has 3 subsidiaries: the Singapore Mediation Centre, the Singapore International Dispute Resolution Academy and the Asian Business Law Institute.\n\nThe Singapore Academy of Law Act was created by an Act of Parliament on 1 November 1988, and had its City Hall premises officially opened by former Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew. With the Singapore Academy of Law (Amendment) Act passed in 1995, SAL’s functions were expanded to include development of legal infrastructure and services.\n\nSAL is led by a Senate headed by Chief Justice Sundaresh Menon, and comprising the Attorney-General, the Supreme Court Bench and key leaders of the various branches of the legal profession. It has more than 12,000 members, including the Bench, all persons who are called as advocates and solicitors of the Supreme Court (i.e. the Bar) or appointed as Legal Service Officers, corporate counsel, faculty members of the three local law schools (i.e. National University of Singapore, Singapore Management University and Singapore University of Social Sciences) and foreign lawyers in Singapore.\n\nSAL’s Executive Board oversees major decision making and provides strategic direction for the development of SAL’s role in the Singapore legal industry. The Executive Board comprises 12 members from both the judiciary and the private sector.\n\nThe scope of SAL’s work as a promotion and development agency covers four “Cs”:\n\nThis work is carried out by 5 clusters:\n\n\nSAL has designated the Yellow Ribbon Fund as the sole beneficiary of its charity efforts since 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "44214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44214", "title": "Slate", "text": "Slate\n\nSlate is a fine-grained, foliated, homogeneous metamorphic rock derived from an original shale-type sedimentary rock composed of clay or volcanic ash through low-grade regional metamorphism. It is the finest grained foliated metamorphic rock. Foliation may not correspond to the original sedimentary layering, but instead is in planes perpendicular to the direction of metamorphic compression.\n\nThe foliation in slate is called \"slaty cleavage\". It is caused by strong compression causing fine grained clay flakes to regrow in planes perpendicular to the compression. When expertly \"cut\" by striking parallel to the foliation, with a specialized tool in the quarry, many slates will display a property called fissility, forming smooth flat sheets of stone which have long been used for roofing, floor tiles, and other purposes. Slate is frequently grey in color, especially when seen, en masse, covering roofs. However, slate occurs in a variety of colors even from a single locality; for example, slate from North Wales can be found in many shades of grey, from pale to dark, and may also be purple, green or cyan. Slate is not to be confused with shale, from which it may be formed, or schist.\n\nThe word \"slate\" is also used for certain types of object made from slate rock. It may mean a single roofing tile made of slate, or a writing slate. These were traditionally a small, smooth piece of the rock, often framed in wood, used with chalk as a notepad or noticeboard, and especially for recording charges in pubs and inns. The phrases \"clean slate\" and \"blank slate\" come from this usage.\n\nBefore the mid-19th century, the terms \"slate\", \"shale\" and \"schist\" were not sharply distinguished. In the context of underground coal mining in the United States, the term slate was commonly used to refer to shale well into the 20th century. For example, \"roof slate\" referred to shale above a coal seam, and \"draw slate\" referred to shale that fell from the mine roof as the coal was removed.\n\nSlate is mainly composed of the minerals quartz and muscovite or illite, often along with biotite, chlorite, hematite, and pyrite and, less frequently apatite, graphite, kaolinite, magnetite, tourmaline, or zircon as well as feldspar. Occasionally, as in the purple slates of North Wales, ferrous reduction spheres form around iron nuclei, leaving a light green spotted texture. These spheres are sometimes deformed by a subsequent applied stress field to ovoids, which appear as ellipses when viewed on a cleavage plane of the specimen.\n\nSlate can be made into roofing slates, a type of roof shingle, or more specifically a type of roof tile, which are installed by a slater. Slate has two lines of breakability – cleavage and grain – which make it possible to split the stone into thin sheets. When broken, slate retains a natural appearance while remaining relatively flat and easy to stack. A \"slate boom\" occurred in Europe from the 1870s until the first world war, allowed by the use of the steam engine in manufacturing slate tiles and improvements in road and waterway transportation systems.\n\nSlate is particularly suitable as a roofing material as it has an extremely low water absorption index of less than 0.4%, making the material waterproof. In fact, this natural slate, which requires only minimal processing, has the lowest embodied energy of all roofing materials.\nNatural slate is used by building professionals as a result of its beauty and durability. Slate is incredibly durable and can last several hundred years, often with little or no maintenance. Its low water absorption makes it very resistant to frost damage and breakage due to freezing. Natural slate is also fire resistant and energy efficient.\nSlate roof tiles are usually fixed (fastened) either with nails, or with hooks as is common with Spanish slate. In the UK, fixing is typically with double nails onto timber battens (England and Wales) or nailed directly onto timber sarking boards (Scotland and Northern Ireland). Nails were traditionally of copper, although there are modern alloy and stainless steel alternatives. Both these methods, if used properly, provide a long-lasting weathertight roof with a lifespan of around 80–100 years. Slate roofs are still used today.\n\nSome mainland European slate suppliers suggest that using hook fixing means that:\n\nThe metal hooks are, however, visible and may be unsuitable for historic properties.\n\nSlate tiles are often used for interior and exterior flooring, stairs, walkways and wall cladding. Tiles are installed and set on mortar and grouted along the edges. Chemical sealants are often used on tiles to improve durability and appearance, increase stain resistance, reduce efflorescence, and increase or reduce surface smoothness. Tiles are often sold gauged, meaning that the back surface is ground for ease of installation. Slate flooring can be slippery when used in external locations subject to rain. Slate tiles were used in 19th century UK building construction (apart from roofs) and in slate quarrying areas such as Blaenau Ffestiniog and Bethesda, Wales there are still many buildings wholly constructed of slate. Slates can also be set into walls to provide a rudimentary damp-proof membrane. Small offcuts are used as shims to level floor joists. In areas where slate is plentiful it is also used in pieces of various sizes for building walls and hedges, sometimes combined with other kinds of stone. In modern homes slate is often used as table coasters.\n\nBecause it is a good electrical insulator and fireproof, it was used to construct early-20th-century electric switchboards and relay controls for large electric motors. Fine slate can also be used as a whetstone to hone knives.\n\nDue to its thermal stability and chemical inertness, slate has been used for laboratory bench tops and for billiard table tops. In 18th- and 19th-century schools, slate was extensively used for blackboards and individual writing slates, for which slate or chalk pencils were used.\n\nIn areas where it is available, high-quality slate is used for tombstones and commemorative tablets. In some cases slate was used by the ancient Maya civilization to fashion stelae.\n\nSlate was traditional material of choice for black Go stones in Japan. It is now considered to be a luxury.\n\nMost slate in Europe today comes from Spain, the world's largest producer and exporter of natural slate, and 90 percent of Europe's natural slate used for roofing originates from the slate industry there.\n\nLesser slate-producing regions in Europe include Wales (with a museum at Llanberis), Cornwall (famously the village of Delabole), Cumbria (see Burlington Slate Quarries, Honister Slate Mine and Skiddaw Slate) and, formerly in the West Highlands of Scotland, around Ballachulish and the Slate Islands in the United Kingdom. Parts of France (Anjou, Loire Valley, Ardennes, Brittany, Savoie) and Belgium (Ardennes), Liguria in northern Italy, especially between the town of Lavagna (which means \"chalkboard\" in Italian) and Fontanabuona valley; Portugal especially around Valongo in the north of the country.\n\nGermany's Moselle River region, Hunsrück, Eifel, Westerwald, Thuringia and north Bavaria (with a former mine open as a museum at Fell); and Alta, Norway (actually schist, not a true slate). Some of the slate from Wales and Cumbria is colored slate (non-blue): purple and formerly green in Wales and green in Cumbria.\n\nSlate is abundant in Brazil, the world's second-biggest producer of slate, around Papagaios in Minas Gerais, which extracts 95 percent of Brazil's slate. However, not all \"slate\" products from Brazil are entitled to bear the CE mark.\n\nSlate is produced on the east coast of Newfoundland, in Eastern Pennsylvania, Buckingham County, Virginia, and the Slate Valley of Vermont and New York, where colored slate is mined in the Granville, New York area. Pennsylvania slate is widely used in the manufacture of turkey calls used for hunting turkeys in the U.S. The tones produced from the slate (when scratched with various species of wood strikers) imitates almost exactly the calls of all four species of wild turkey in North America: eastern, Rio Grande, Osceola and Merriam's.\n\nA major slating operation existed in Monson, Maine during the late 19th and early 20th centuries, where the slate is usually dark purple to blackish, and many local structures are still roofed with slate tiles. The roof of St. Patrick's Cathedral, New York was made of Monson slate, as is the headstone of John F. Kennedy.\n\nSlate is found in the Arctic, and was used by Inuit to make the blades for ulus.\n\nChina has vast slate deposits; in recent years its export of finished and unfinished slate has increased. It has slate in various colors.\n\nDeposits of slate exist throughout the Australian continent, with large reserves quarried in the Adelaide Hills (Willunga and Kanmantoo) and the Mid North (Mintaro and Spalding).\n\nBecause slate was formed in low heat and pressure, compared to a number of other metamorphic rocks, some fossils can be found in slate; sometimes even microscopic remains of delicate organisms can be found in slate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38858821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38858821", "title": "South African administrative law", "text": "South African administrative law\n\nSouth African administrative law is the branch of public law in that country which regulates the legal relations of public authorities, whether with private individuals and organisations or with other public authorities, or better say, in present-day South Africa, which regulates \"the activities of bodies that \"exercise public powers or perform public functions\", irrespective of whether those bodies are public authorities in a strict sense.\" According to the Constitutional Court, administrative law is \"an incident of the separation of powers under which the courts regulate and control the exercise of public power by the other branches of government.\"\n\nWeichers defines administrative law as a body of legal rules governing the administration, organisation, powers and functions of administrative authorities. For Baxter, it is a set of common-law principles which promote the effective use of administrative power, protect against misuse, preserve a balance of fairness and maintain the public interest. Chaskalson describes it as the interface between the bureaucratic state and its subjects.\n\nFrom this it may be seen that commentators agree that administrative law is concerned with attaining administrative efficiency, and with ensuring that this power is tightly controlled, so that no abuse may occur. In \"\", it was held that administrative law forms the core of public law. It overlaps with constitutional law because both deal with organs of state and their relationship to individuals. Administrative law differs from constitutional law, however, in its emphasisis on a particular branch of government (the public administration) and on a particular activity of the state (administrative action). In \"President of the RSA v SARFU\", the Constitutional Court held that the administration is that part of government which is primarily concerned with the implementation of legislation.\n\nIn summary, then, administrative law regulates the activities of bodies that exercise public powers or perform public functions. It empowers administrative officials so that they may implement policies or programs, and limits the exercise of power by requiring all administrative action meet the minimum requirements of lawfulness, reasonableness and fairness.\n\nAdministrative officials derive their authority or jurisdiction from a legal instrument or rule, and may only do what a law authorises them to so. This is known as the principle of legality, which requires that administrative authorities not only refrain from breaking the law, but that all their content comply with the Constitution and particularly the Bill of Rights. The sources of administrative law are, in order of importance,\n\n\nThe Constitution is the supreme law of the land. Any law or act which is inconsistent with it has no force or effect. The effect of this provision is that laws and administrative acts must comply with the Constitution. The Constitution is binding on the executive branch of government in every sphere of administration. The importance of the Constitution as a source of administrative law was best articulated in \"Pharmaceutical Manufacturers\", where Chaskalson P held that the control of public power by the courts through judicial review is a constitutional matter. The common-law principles that had been applied to control powers prior to 1994 have now been subsumed under the Constitution. As a source of administrative law, the Constitution establishes a variety of agencies and administrative structures to control the exercise of public power.\n\nIn \"Bato Star Fishing v Minister of Environmental Affairs\", O'Regan J held that there are not two systems of law regulating administrative action—the common law and the Constitution—but only one system grounded in the Constitution. The courts' power to review administrative action no longer flows directly from the common law, but rather from the constitutionally mandated PAJA and from the Constitution itself. The \"grundnorm\" of administrative law is now to be found in the first place not in the doctrine of \"ultra vires\", nor in that of parliamentary sovereignty, nor in the common law itself, but rather in the principles of the Constitution. The common law informs the provisions of PAJA and the Constitution, and derives its force from the latter. The extent to which the common law remains relevant to administrative review will have to be developed on a case-by-case basis as the courts interpret and apply the provisions of PAJA and the Constitution.\n\nLegislation includes\n\n\nAll these statutes may confer authority to take action and make decisions. For a statute to be valid, it must conform to constitutional requirements.\n\nSection 125(2)(b) of the Constitution states that the Premier of a province exercises its executive authority, together with the other members of the Executive Council, by implementing all national legislation within the functional areas listed in Schedules 4 or 5 of the Constitution, except where the Constitution or an Act of Parliament provides otherwise.\n\nSection 151 of the Constitution states that the executive and legislative authority of a municipality is vested in its municipal council. The municipality has the right to govern, on its own initiative, the local government affairs of its community, subject to national and provincial legislation, as provided for in the Constitution.\n\nIn \"Fedsure Life Assurance v Greater Johannesburg Transitional Metropolitan Council\", the court found that the imposition of the rates and levies and the payment of the subsidies did not constitute \"administrative action\" under section 24 of the Interim Constitution. By-laws cannot fall within the definition of administrative action in PAJA; therefore they are not subject to the principles of just administrative action.\n\nSubordinate legislative bodies, such as the President, when promulgating proclamations, and ministers, when issuing regulations, do not have original legislative competence and must act within the confines of the enabling legislation. In \"Minister of Health v New Clicks\", Chaskalson stated that the making of delegated legislation by a member off the executive is an essential part of public administration, in that it gives effect to legislative policies. Further, it provides the detailed infrastructure whereby this can take place.\n\nIn \"Sasol Oil v Metcalfe\", Willis held that \"PAJA cannot be regarded as ordinary legislation,\" because it seeks to give effect to fundamental rights contained in the Bill of Rights. Willis described the Act further as \"triumphal legislation.\"\n\nCommon law as a source of authority was mainly limited to the prerogative powers. A prerogative is a discretionary power given to someone by virtue of the fact that he holds a particular office. In \"President of RSA v Hugo\", it was held that the common-law prerogative powers no longer exist in South African law as an independent source of power.\n\nThe reason for this is that the executive may not have inherent common-law powers which go beyond the ambit of the Constitution. The common law continues to influence administrative law until such a time as it is set aside on grounds of constitutional inconsistency.\n\nSome of the administrative-law principles which have their origin in the common law are now written down in the Constitution or in legislation. The common-law principle of reasonableness, for example, is contained in the Constitution and PAJA.\n\nIn \"Marais v Democratic Alliance\", the court found that common laws of procedural fairness and natural justice were applicable to a dispute between a mayor and a political party, even though the dispute itself did not fall under the scope of PAJA. In contrast, however, it was also held that PAJA must first be looked to as the source of law to resolve a dispute. In \"Pharmaceutical Manufacturers\", the court held that the principles that have previously provided the grounds for judicial review of public power have been subsumed under the Constitution; in so far as they might continue to be relevant to judicial review, they gain their force from the Constitution.\n\nThe Constitution obliges the courts to consider international human rights. Administrators must recognise international documents which deal with international human rights whenever they are relevant to the administrator's functions, and must act in accordance with these international documents. The courts are not confined to instruments that are binding on South Africa. In \"S v Makwanyane\", the Constitutional Court held that both binding and non-binding international law may be used as a tool of interpretation.\n\nUnder foreign law, section 39(1) of the Constitution provides that a court \"may\" consider foreign law. Courts are not \"compelled\" to consider foreign law.\n\nPrior to 1994, South African administrative law was underdeveloped. The reason for this was that Parliament's surrender of more and more power to the executive. The law was not used to check or to structure these powers. Under this system, the courts could not question the validity of Acts of Parliament. In \"R v Mchlery\", Lord De Villiers held that the courts had no right to enquire into or as to whether the legislature had acted wisely or unwisely for the benefit of the public or individuals.\n\nThe procedure for the review of administrative action under rule 53 of Uniform Rules of Court lacked clearly defined guidelines for how administrative action could be assessed. The principle of parliamentary sovereignty implied ministerial responsibility for administrative action. Ministerial responsibility was complementary to judicial review, in that\n\n\nThe efficiency of ministerial responsibility was reduced by the imbalance of party representation in the South African Parliament.\n\nSouth African administrative law is similar to its English equivalent, especially in relation to judicial review of administrative action. For this reason, British cases are often cited and relied upon by South African courts. There are fundamental differences in substance, however. The conditions, composition and politics of South African society were and are different. Under apartheid, Parliament had the power to enact whatever it wished (however unreasonable and however unacceptable). The Parliament was not elected by universal franchise. The largest section of the population was excluded from representation on grounds of race. Laws affecting black people conferred extensive powers upon the administration. South Africa was isolated from the rest of the world, so its public law became insular.\n\nIn \"Lunt v University of Cape Town\", regarding a refusal to allow a post-graduate into medical school, the court applied the legitimate-expectation doctrine in a contractual setting.\n\nAs early as the late 1980s, there were a number of reform initiatives aimed at reforming the undesirable state of administrative law in South Africa. Most of the reforms were court-driven and therefore known as judge-made reforms. There were limitations, however, which were embedded in the judicial process. Judges have no control over cases which come before them, so it was difficult to effect a programmatic reform.\n\nA significant step was the decision in \"Attorney General, Eastern Cape v Bloom\". The President had enacted a set of regulations which, for example, excluded a detainee from having a fair trial. This implied that the President could exclude natural justice. The court held that this was a dire mistake, and that the President could not exclude procedural fairness. This decision clarifies the underlying principle which was incorrectly interpreted in the case of \"Omar v Minister of Law and Order]], in which it was held that the State President, when enacting emergency regulations in terms of the Public Safety Act, could excuse the right to a hearing as well as the right of detainees to legal representatives.\n\nAnother reform was the recognition of the doctrine of legitimate expectation – this came as a result of landmark case of \"Transvaal v Traub\", which extended the applicability of the right to be heard to cases which did not necessarily affect one's liberty, property or existing rights.\n\nThe courts also recognised unreasonableness as a ground of judicial review, which was expressed in \"Jacobs v Waks\" and reaffirmed in \"JSE v Witwatersrand Nigel Limited\", where it was held that it is the function of the court to determine what was and what was not relevant to the exercise of discretionary administrative power.\n\nThere were also sporadic initiatives taken by the government, but these were limited, because there was no incentive for those in power to change administrative law in any meaningful way. The South African Law Review, however, published reports in 1986 and 1992 which included draft legislation to codify judicial review.\n\nIn \"SA Roads Board v Johannesburg City Council\", the rigid classification of functions as either administrative or legislative was rejected; instead a distinction must be drawn between\n\n\nThese reforms cleared the way for a new phase of administrative law reform, rooted on the principles of democratic rule and constitutional supremacy.\n\nBefore 1994, South Africa had embraced the doctrine of parliamentary sovereignty. Now, however, the Constitution dictates that all exercises of public power be rational, justifiable and reasonable. The Interim Constitution provided a bridge from an authoritarian past to a democratic future. Section 24 of the Interim Constitution provided that every person shall have the right to\n\n\nSection 33 of the final Constitution provides\n\n\nAdministrators must obey the law and must be authorised by the law for the decisions they make. This is the same as the principle of legality; it is the authority of an administrator to act. The administrator must obey the law, whether general or specific, and must act within his delegated powers.\n\n\"Affordable Medicines Trust v Minister of Health\" concerned a challenge to the validity of a licensing scheme introduced by the government. The applicants sought an order declaring the invalidity of certain sections of the Medicines and Related Substances Act which authorised the Director-General of Health to issue licences to dispense medicines to health practitioners, which could result in wide, unlimited and uncircumscribed arbitrary legislative powers. It was submitted that this was a breach of the principle of legality. The challenge raised the question of whether it is permissible for parliament to leave it to the Director-General to prescribe the conditions on which a licence may be issued.\n\nIt was held that there is nothing preventing Parliament from delegating subordinate regulatory authority to other bodies; nor is there anything that prevents Parliament from conferring upon the Director-General the discretion to determine the conditions. The delegation must not be so broad or vague, however, that the authority to whom the power is delegated is unable to determine the nature and the scope of the powers conferred, as this would lead to arbitrary exercise of delegated powers.\n\nOn the principle of legality, the court held that constitutional democracy is founded on the values of the supremacy of the Constitution and the rule of law; any law or conduct inconsistent with it is invalid. The exercise of public power must therefore comply with the Constitution, which is the supreme law, and with the doctrine of legality, which is part of that law. The Constitution entrenches the principle of legality and provides the foundation for the control of public power.\n\nIn exercising the power to make regulations, the Minister has to comply with the Constitution and the empowering provision. If he exceeds the powers conferred by the empowering provisions, there is a breach of the doctrine of legality.\n\nIn \"Nala Local Municipality v Lejweleputswa District Municipality\", the legality of a meeting at which a decision to investigate alleged irregularities of the applicants was called into question. It was held that, in line with the principle of legality embodied in the Constitution and built into PAJA, administrative action not authorised by an empowering provision is unlawful and invalid, and that a person prejudiced by it may have it reviewed and set aside. It was held that the meeting did not comply with the requirements of the standard rules and orders, and therefore that it was irregularly convened and was therefore invalid.\n\nIn \"Platinum Asset Management v Financial Services Board\", the argument was raised by Platinum Asset Management that an authorisation of an inspection of the applicant's business by the registrar in terms of the Inspection of Financial Institutions Act was \"overboard, undefined and unspecified,\" and therefore in contravention of the principle of the rule of law and the doctrine of legality. The applicants relied on case law to the effect that the absence of clear parameters in the letter of appointment renders the appointment overboard and inconsistent with the rule of law entrenched in section 1 of the Constitution. Because of the circumstances of the case, however, it was held that the applicants had no basis for reliance on section 1.\n\nIn \"Mgoqi v City of Cape Town\", Mgoqi acted as the municipal manager of the City of Cape Town in terms of contract of employment between him and the city council. The former mayor of the city altered the contract and extended the period for which it ran. When a new mayor was elected, there was a meeting at which the extended contract was reviewed and revoked. The first application concerned the inconsistency of this with the Constitution and therefore its unlawfulness and invalidity. The second application, brought by the city of Cape Town, was for the review and setting aside of the first Mayor's decision to extend the contract of employment.\n\nIn terms of the second application, the court dealt with the matter on the basis of the doctrine of legality. It was held that the first Mayor did not have the power to make his decision. This was argued on three grounds by the City:\n\n\nThe court held on all three grounds that the former mayor's decision to extend the contract of employment was fatally flawed, unlawful and invalid.\n\nIn \"Van Zyl v Government of RSA, the applicants sought the review and the setting aside of a decision by the government (the decision not to engage in diplomatic relations with the government of Lesotho), in order to protect the applicant's property rights and interests in Lesotho.\n\nAn example of delegation may be found in section 7 of the Refugees Act, in terms of which the Minister of Home Affairs may delegate any power granted to or duty imposed on him by the Act to an officer in the Department of Home Affairs. To be lawful, a delegation of a power or a duty by the Minister has three requirements:\n\n\nThe Interim Constitution, in section 24, provides that every person has the right to administrative action which justifiable. The Constitution, in section 33, states that everyone has the right to administrative action which is lawful, reasonable and procedurally fair.\n\nThe content of reasonableness remains unclear, but it was held in the case of \"Bato Star Fishing\" that what will constitute a reasonable decision will depend on the circumstances of each case. Factors include\n\n\nIt was held further, in the case of \"Rowan v Williams\", that a decision must be capable of objective substantiation. In order to prove justifiability in relation to the reasons given for it, it must be objectively tested against the three requirements of suitability, necessity and proportionality. Gross unreasonableness is no longer a requirement for review. The constitutional test embodies the requirement for proportionality between the means and the end.\n\nIn short reasonableness requires that\n\n\nSection 33(1) of the Constitution provides for a right to administrative action that is procedurally fair. The question is this: How to determine the content of the right? There are three legal sources:\n\n\nThe common law embodies certain principles of natural justice, including \"audi alteram partem\" (or \"hear the other side\") and \"nemo iudexin sua causa\" (or \"no-one may be a judge in his own cause\").\n\nRequirements for the opportunity to be heard are as follows:\n\n\nSection 3(1) of PAJA provides that administrative action which materially and adversely affects the rights or legitimate expectations of any person must be procedurally fair.\n\nSection 33 of the Constitution is of paramount importance. The operation of section 33 remained suspended until legislation was enacted in the form of PAJA, which rendered section 33 binding and enforceable. Section 33 brought about far-reaching changes to administrative law. Section 33 aims to cause administrative decision-making to be open, transparent and rational, to provide a safeguard against capriciousness and autocratic tendencies, and promote administrative accountability and justice.\n\nIn \"Minister of Environmental Affairs & Tourism v Phambili Fisheries\", the respondent successfully challenged in the court \"a quo\" the decision of the Chief Director of Marine Coastal Management to allocate a maximum amount of hake that they were permitted to catch, being less than what they had asked for. The empowering provision was the Marine Living Resources Act. The respondents were both companies of historically disadvantaged persons. They argued that the Chief Director had failed to consider adequately the need for transformation when allocating less to them than they had requested.\n\nIn \"Bato Star Fishing\", the applicant relied on three ground in its application for special leave to appeal:\n\n\nThe court held that there are not two systems of administrative law, one founded on the Constitution and one founded on the common law. There is now but one system of administrative law, founded in the Constitution and expressed in PAJA.\n\nSection 1 of PAJA defines the scope of administrative action. It was held that the cause of action for the judicial review of administrative action now ordinarily arises from PAJA, not from the common law, as in the past, and that the authority of PAJA to ground such causes of action rests squarely on the Constitution.\n\nIn \"Petro Props v Barlow\", the applicant was the owner of immovable property on which it intended to construct and operate a filling station. It had the backing of Sasol, with which certain agreements had been concluded. The respondents were opposed to the development, fearing that a filling station in the proposed location will be detrimental to the wetland surrounding it. In spite of this, the applicant was granted authorisation in terms of section 22 of the Environmental Conservation Act (ECA). A campaign was launched in opposition to this. The application was for an interdict to prohibit the respondents from continuing the campaign.\n\nThe respondents resisted the application for an interdict on the ground that it would violate the constitutional right to freedom of expression.\n\nThe applicants argued that sections 35 and 36 of the ECA operate as a limitation on the constitutional right to freedom of expression and that the limitation was justifiable in terms of section 36 of the Constitution. This argument was rejected. The court held that such limitation on the rights in the Bill of Rights was not justifiable in terms of section 36, as the factors must be considered on the criterion of proportionality.\n\nThe structure of the applicants' argument was based on section 7 of PAJA, which limits access to the right to have administrative action reviewed until internal appeal or review procedures have been exhausted. One difference between the right to administrative action and the other rights in the Bill of Rights is that PAJA explicitly places that limitation on access to the protection of section 33. The mere fact that alternative procedures exist does not create this limitation.\n\nIn the new constitutional order, the control of public power is always a constitutional matter. The court's power to review administrative action no longer flows directly from the common law but from PAJA and the Constitution itself. The common law informs the provisions of PAJA and the Constitution, and derives its force from the latter. The extent to which the common law remains relevant to administrative review will have to be developed on a case-by-case basis as the courts interpret and apply the provisions of PAJA and the Constitution.\n\nThis law was passed to realise the vision of an open and accountable system of administrative law that is fair and just. It is designed to constrain government, and represents a decisive break from the past. The purpose of the Act is to give effect to the right to administrative action which is lawful, reasonable and procedurally fair, and the right to written reasons for administrative action. The preamble of the Act promotes efficient administration and good governance, and emphasises the importance of a culture of accountability, openness and transparency in public administration.\n\n\"Administrative action\" is defined in the Promotion of Administrative Justice Act (PAJA) as any decision taken, or any failure to take a decision, by\n\n\nThe Act resolves to control exercises of public power, even by private actors, with the requirements of lawfulness, procedural fairness and reasonableness. It is the nature of the functions performed, as opposed to the nature of the functionary, that is important. It has been argued that this definition has shortfalls, in that, for example, it excludes the nine categories of public functions.\n\nA decision in this context includes a proposed decision and a failure to take a decision. An administrative decision must be taken without unreasonable delay, or within the time period that may be prescribed for the particular administrative action.\n\nIn PAJA, a \"decision\" is defined as any decision of an administrative nature made, proposed to be made, or required to be made, as the case may be, under an empowering provision, including a decision relating to\n\n\nA decision is the exercise of discretionary powers. It is a legislative function performed by an elected legislative body, not subordinate legislation.\n\nIn \"Noupoort Christian Care Centre v Minister of National Department of Social Development\" the applicant argued that the failure by the respondent to determine the question of whether the applicant was entitled to a permanent licence amounted to unlawful administrative action. It was held that inaction on the part of the respondent falls under the definition of administrative action in section 1 of PAJA. A decision includes any decision of an administrative nature made under an empowering provision, including the decision relating to issuing or refusing to issue a licence.\n\nMost decisions that administrators take as part of their official functions are of an administrative nature. There is necessarily a public character to the phrase. The relationship is one of inequality or subordination. It excludes decisions made in the exercise of legislative and judicial power. These are decisions connected with the daily or ordinary business of government. The effect of the phrase \"of an administrative nature\" is that only decisions made in the course of exercising and performing powers and functions will qualify as administrative action subject to PAJA.\n\nIn \"Gamevest v Regional Land Claims Commissioner, Northern Province and Mpumalanga\", the appellant challenged a decision of the Regional Land Claims Commissioner to accept the claim of the fifth respondent for certain land in terms of the Restitution of Land Rights Act. The steps to be followed in terms of section 11 of the Act are as follows:\n\n\nWhen the matter reached the court, PAJA had not yet come into force, so it was necessary to rely on the common law. On the facts, the alleged decision was merely an opinion expressed by a representative of the Commissioner at the first stage of the process; it was therefore not an administrative decision that could be set aside.\n\nIn \"Platinum Asset Management v Financial Services Board; Anglo Rand Capital House v Financial Service Board\", the applicants were companies believed to be carrying on operations buying and selling shares on behalf of paying clients on various international stock exchanges without the necessary approval in terms of section 445 of the Stock Exchange Control Act. On the basis of this belief, the CEO authorised inspections of the applicants, which subsequently took place.\n\nThe applicants sought the review and setting aside of the decision to authorise an inspection on the basis\n\n\nThere are, then, two sets of actions, regarding respectively\n\n\nIt was held that, while the CEO's decision would not amount to administrative action within the meaning of section 1 of PAJA, whether the actions of the inspectors would was a separate inquiry. As to the meaning of administrative action, it was noted that rights need only be affected, rather than affected adversely, in order to meet the definitional standards of section 1 of PAJA. There is, furthermore, no distinction between administrative action as defined in PAJA and administrative action as defined in section 33 of the Constitution, so the procedural requirement cannot be avoided. If PAJA applies to a case, therefore, its provisions must be determinative of the merits of the case.\n\nThe importance of this provision lies in the determination of lawfulness of the administrative action. An \"empowering provision\" is\n\n\nThe empowering provision is an extremely important aspect of any administrative action. Any action not authorised by the empowering provision is not allowed. In fact, section 6 of PAJA says that a court may set aside decisions where\n\n\nAn \"enabling statute\" is that legislation which allows the administration to act.\n\nIn the case of natural or juristic persons, a wider definition of \"empowering provision\" is employed to accommodate instances where natural or juristic persons exercise public power or perform public functions, such as the functions awarded to them in terms of outsourcing agreements.\n\nThe powers contained in the empowering provision may be express; they may also include tacit powers, in which case rules can be applied to establish the content and ambit of the administrator's authority in the particular circumstance.\n\nAdministrators operate under certain conditions and for the most part have very little freedom to choose how they would like to make decisions. They are controlled by empowering provisions, which govern decisions according to sets of rules. These rules may come in the form of conditions, expressed by such terms as \"age,\" \"fit and proper,\" \"exceptional circumstances,\" \"reasonable,\" etc. These are often hard to define, so some of these concepts need to be given meaning. This is done by setting a standard against which people or circumstances can be measured. Such standards need to be\n\n\nIn some circumstances, there are guidelines about how an administrator should act. These can be found by looking at how such decisions have been made within their department, and how the courts have interpreted these words in the past. Sometimes the Preamble to the empowering Act may also say what the purpose of the Act is.\n\nThe Act specifically excludes some decisions of administrators, such as decisions made in terms of the Promotion of Access to Information Act. Examples include\n\n\nIt is important to note that in section 33 the adjective \"administrative,\" not \"executive,\" is used to qualify \"action.\" This suggests that the test for determining whether conduct constitutes \"administrative action\" is not whether or not the action concerned is performed by a member of the executive arm of government. What matters is not so much the functionary as the function. The question is whether the task itself is administrative or not. It may well be that some acts of a legislature may constitute \"administrative action.\" Similarly, judicial officers may, from time to time, carry out administrative tasks. The focus of the enquiry as to whether conduct is \"administrative action\" is not on the arm of government to which the relevant actor belongs, but on the nature of the power he or she is exercising.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3473748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3473748", "title": "Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977", "text": "Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977\n\nThe Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 (SMCRA) is the primary federal law that regulates the environmental effects of coal mining in the United States.\n\nSMCRA created two programs: one for regulating active coal mines and a second for reclaiming abandoned mine lands. SMCRA also created the Office of Surface Mining, an agency within the Department of the Interior, to promulgate regulations, to fund state regulatory and reclamation efforts, and to ensure consistency among state regulatory programs.\n\nSMCRA grew out of a concern about the environmental effects of strip mining. Coal had been mined in the United States since the 1740s, but surface mining did not become widespread until the 1930s. At the end of that decade, states began to enact the first laws regulating the coal mining industry: West Virginia in 1939, Indiana in 1941, Illinois in 1943, and Pennsylvania in 1945. Despite those laws, the great demand for coal during World War II led to coal being mined with little regard for environmental consequences. After the war, states continued to enact and expand regulatory programs, some of which required mining permits or the posting of bonds to ensure that the land could be reclaimed after mining was complete. But these state laws were largely unsuccessful at stemming the environmental impacts of surface mining. One problem was that the law varied from state to state, enabling mining operations to relocate to states where regulations were less strict. Meanwhile, surface mining became increasingly common: in 1963 just 33 percent of American coal came from surface mines; by 1973 that figure reached 60 percent.\n\nIn 1974 and 1975 Congress sent mining regulation bills to President Gerald Ford, but he vetoed them out of concern that they would harm the coal industry, increase inflation, and restrict the energy supply. As Jimmy Carter campaigned in Appalachia in 1976, he promised to sign those bills. Congress sent him a bill that was even more stringent than those vetoed by Ford, and President Carter signed it into law on August 3, 1977.\n\nThe regulation of active mines under SMCRA has five major components:\n\n\nSMCRA created an Abandoned Mine Land (AML) fund to pay for the cleanup of mine lands abandoned before the passage of the statute in 1977. The law was amended in 1990 to allow funds to be spent on the reclamation of mines abandoned after 1977. The fund is financed by a tax of 31.5 cents per ton for surface mined coal, 15 cents per ton for coal mined underground, and 10 cents per ton for lignite. 80% of AML fees are distributed to states with an approved reclamation program (see below) to fund reclamation activities. The remaining 20% are used by OSM to respond to emergencies such as landslides, land subsidence, and fires, and to carry out high priority cleanups in states without approved programs. States with approved programs can also use AML funds to set up programs to insure homeowners against land subsidence caused by underground mining.\n\nIn \"Hodel v. Virginia Surface Mining & Reclamation Association, Inc.\", the Supreme Court of the United States found the SMCRA does not violate the Tenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. Like most environmental statutes passed in the 1960s and 1970s, SMCRA uses a cooperative federalism approach under which states are expected to take the lead in regulation while the federal government oversees their efforts.\n\nUnder SMCRA, the federal government can approve a program, which gives the state the authority to regulate mining operations, if the state demonstrates that it has a law that is at least as strict as SMCRA, and that they have a regulatory agency with the wherewithal to operate the program. Currently, most coal-mining states have approved programs. Those states issue their own permits, inspect their mines, and take enforcement action themselves when necessary. In the two states without approved programs (Tennessee and Washington) and on Indian Reservations, the Office of Surface Mining performs those functions. The federal government is required to regulate surface coal mining on federal lands (which include 60 percent of the coal reserves in the West), but can enter into cooperative agreements with states with approved programs.\n\nMany states do not require large mining companies to post a surety bond for the costs of mine reclamation. Instead, these companies can hold their own assets as \"self-bonding\". The bankruptcy of large coal mining companies may imperil the $3.7 billion state regulators have allowed in self-bonding. For example, shortly before it declared bankruptcy Peabody Energy held $1.47 billion in self-bonding liabilities, including $900.5 million in Wyoming alone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15970146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15970146", "title": "The Delaware Journal of Corporate Law", "text": "The Delaware Journal of Corporate Law\n\nThe Delaware Journal of Corporate Law is Widener University School of Law's corporate law review. The journal was established in 1976 and publishes three issues per annual volume. In addition to scholarly articles, the journal publishes opinions from the Delaware Court of Chancery that are not otherwise printed in a regional reporter. It ranks among the top specialized legal journals the United States based on the number of citations from federal and state courts. In 2008, the journal ranked 10th out of 411 specialized journals based on citations in state and federal court opinions and 1st among student-edited journals in the category \"Corporate Law and Business Law\".\n\nWhile the journal maintains a corporate focus, it seeks to publish articles that come within the broad scope of the American Bar Association's Section on Business Law. Some of the current committees of that section are: Professional Responsibility, Insurance law, Law Firms, Criminal Laws, Employee Benefits, Alternative Dispute Resolution, Environmental Controls, Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Law, Health Law, International Business Law, Public Interest Issues, and Telecommunications.\n\nThe journal hosts the Annual Francis G. Pileggi Distinguished Lecture in Law. This lecture series, held in Wilmington, Delaware, is presented to the Delaware Bench and Bar and focuses on developing issues in the area of corporate law. Notable past Pileggi Lecturers include Ralph K. Winter, Jr. (1986-1987), Louis Loss (1987-1988), Joel Seligman (1997-1998), Lynn A. Stout (2001-2002), Robert B. Thompson (2003-2004), Melvin A. Eisenberg (2004-2005), Stephen Bainbridge (2005-2006), and Mark J. Roe (2007-2008).\n\nThe journal offers three methods for obtaining membership. First, those students whose academic performance has placed them in the top 5% of their respective class after first semester for regular division students or third semester for evening division students are extended invitations to join. Second, students that have completed first-year regular division or second-year evening division may obtain membership through the Summer Writing Competition. This competition takes into consideration both the student’s competition paper and grades. Finally, students, after completion of either second-year regular division or third-year extended division, may submit a paper on a pre-approved topic as part of the Superior Authorship Competition. Participation in this competition is also subject to a minimum GPA requirement.\n\n"}
{"id": "46452040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46452040", "title": "Thomas Carroll Group", "text": "Thomas Carroll Group\n\nThomas Carroll Group plc is a British provider of business and personal insurance, financial management, health & safety and employment law consulting services.\n\nAt the British Insurance Awards in 2014, Thomas Carroll Brokers were named \"Insurance Brokers of the Decade\".\n\nThe company has been regularly included in the \"Sunday Times\" Top 100 Best Small Company to work for.\n\nOn 1 April 2016 the group bought the Monmouthshire Insurance Services business from Monmouthshire Building Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "651991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=651991", "title": "Treaty of Moscow (1970)", "text": "Treaty of Moscow (1970)\n\nThe Treaty of Moscow was signed on August 12, 1970 between the USSR and West Germany (FRG). It was signed by Willy Brandt and Walter Scheel from the FRG side and by Alexei Kosygin and Andrei Gromyko from the USSR side.\n\nDuring the 1970s while Willy Brandt was Chancellor of the FRG, the country followed a foreign relations policy of \"Ostpolitik\". It \"abandoned, at least for the time being, its claims with respect to German self-determination and reunification, recognising de facto the existence of the German Democratic Republic (GDR) and the Oder–Neisse line.\" \n\nBoth sides expressed their ambition to strive for a normalization of the relations between the European states while keeping international peace and to follow the guidelines of the Article 2 of the UN Charter.\n\nThe signees renounced the use of force, and recognised the post-World War II borders — specifically the Oder–Neisse line which hived off a large portion of historical eastern Germany to Poland and the USSR.\n\nIt also enshrined the division between East and West Germany, thus contributing a valuable element of stability into the relationship between the two countries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4699502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4699502", "title": "United States groundwater law", "text": "United States groundwater law\n\nUnited States groundwater law is that area of United States law related to groundwater.\n\nGroundwater can either be privately owned or publicly owned. Groundwater owned by the State is usually distributed through an appropriation system. Privately owned groundwater may allow unlimited production or limited production rights based on land ownership or liability rules. It is possible to regulate the spacing of wells and groundwater production under any of these systems, but the methods, effectiveness and results of that regulation varies greatly from one system to the next depending on the type of aquifer to be regulated. Effective regulation is tailored to both the hydrology and economics of the region to be regulated. Below is a short discussion of each system and the advantages and disadvantages of each.\n\nThe Rule of Capture provides each landowner the ability to capture as much groundwater as they can put to a beneficial use, but they are not guaranteed any set amount of water. As a result, well-owners are not liable to other landowners for damaging their wells or taking water from beneath their land. The Rule of Capture allows capture of groundwater only to the extent the use is beneficial and not malicious. The advantage of this system is that it encourages economic development and maximum utilization of the resources. Another advantage of this system is that it leads to minimal government involvement in the operations of water wells. The primary disadvantage of this system is the potential for overproduction of the aquifer system that may result when each landowner attempts to protect the water right by drilling bigger, deeper wells. Because no landowner is given a quantifiable or set amount of production capacity, all landowners are encouraged to capture as much water as they can as quickly as they can.\n\nCorrelative groundwater rights represent a limited private ownership right similar to riparian rights in a surface stream. The amount of groundwater right is based on the size of the surface area where each landowner gets a corresponding amount of the available water. Once adjudicated, the maximum amount of the water right is set, but the right can be decreased if the total amount of available water decreases as is likely during a drought. Landowners may sue others for encroaching upon their groundwater rights, and water pumped for use on the overlying land takes preference over water pumped for use off the land. This system benefits those who have low demand for water but own large expanses of property - such as ranchers - and harms those who have a high demand for water without correspondingly large tracts of land - such as cities and some irrigators. Only California follows the correlative right system for groundwater, although many states follow a similar system for oil and gas production. Water is a rechargeable resource and so the amount of the water right may be reduced, marketing the groundwater right can be difficult. The preference for water uses on the land makes it difficult to market the water or water rights.\n\nThe third system involving private ownership rights is the liability rule known as the American Rule or Reasonable Use Rule. This rule does not guarantee the landowner a set amount of water, but allows unlimited extraction as long as the result does not unreasonably damage other wells or the aquifer system. Usually this rule gives great weight to historical uses and prevents new uses that interfere with the prior use. The determination of who gets a well and how much water may be pumped is usually made by a court unless the state creates a regulatory agency to perform that function, and the primary issue is the \"reasonableness\" of the use. The advantage to this system is its flexibility in adjudicating competing uses of an aquifer system. Unfortunately, this same flexibility can lead to excessive litigation because well owners may sue at any time to determine if a competing use is \"reasonable\", a standard that may change with time. The reasonableness standard is also highly dependent on the location of the suit and who ends up in the jury pool. Marketing water rights does not take place until the system is fully adjudicated; new users generally do not purchase groundwater rights until they are sure they cannot obtain \"free\" water through litigation.\n\nMany states, especially in the western United States, claim ownership of groundwater and allocate the resource through an appropriative system just as they would any surface right. Typically water rights are appropriated based on each aquifer's sustainable yield, and once all the rights are granted no further permits will be issued. Some states allow the permits to be marketed and some do not. Where the water is not owned by the state and the tort law proves to be an inadequate means to prevent overproduction, states have created administrative regulatory agencies to allocate groundwater rights between competing landowners. In those cases the administrative law essentially supplants the tort law, making the tort remedy (or lack thereof) irrelevant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17164089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17164089", "title": "Zimbabwe Electoral Commission", "text": "Zimbabwe Electoral Commission\n\nZimbabwe Electoral Commission (ZEC) is a nominally independent organisation which controls elections at all levels of Zimbabwe politics. It was established by an Act of the Parliament in 2004, with influence from its predecessor, the Electoral Supervisory Commission as well as the Southern African Development Community.\n\nProviding voter education which is:\n\nThe Commission comprises 8 Commissioners who are appointed by the President. The Chairperson is appointed after consultation with the judicial service commission, and the other 7 are appointed from a list of nominees supplied by the Parliamentary Committee on Standing Rules and Orders. There is also a Chief Elections Officer charged with the day-to-day running of the Commission.\n\nOn numerous occasions the ZEC has been dubbed biased and their independence questioned by opposition parties as well as international Independent media.\n\nMorgan Tsvangirai of the Movement for Democratic Change party believes that the June 2008 elections could not be conducted fairly due to election violence which Tsvangirai believes was state-sponsored, and in most cases performed by the state militia. He also claims that members of the police, Zimbabwe National Army, and prison officers were being \"forced\" to vote Zanu-PF. According to Tsvangirai the ZEC has failed to condemn whisperings among Zanu-PF officials that president Robert Mugabe will continue to rule regardless of electoral results, which has encouraged groups of War Veterans to provoke violence.\n\nMDC also claim that the Commission fails to conduct it's duties of regulation efficiently as it has failed to act on the Zimbabwean media, such as the state-run \"Herald\" newspaper, which they are required to do in their mandate. Critics state that this information is completely one-sided against the opposition and in favour of Robert Mugabe and the incumbent Zanu-PF party, as well as being incorrect, and inciting racial, religious and political hatred, and blame the Commission for failing to monitor this.\n"}
