{"id": "10639341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10639341", "title": "1947–1948 Civil War in Mandatory Palestine", "text": "1947–1948 Civil War in Mandatory Palestine\n\nThe 1947–48 Civil War in Mandatory Palestine was the first phase of the 1948 Palestine war. It broke out after the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted a resolution on 29 November 1947 recommending the adoption of the Partition Plan for Palestine.\n\nDuring the civil war, the Jewish and Arab communities of Palestine clashed (the latter supported by the Arab Liberation Army) while the British, who had the obligation to maintain order, organized their withdrawal and intervened only on an occasional basis.\n\nWhen the British Mandate of Palestine expired on 14 May 1948, and with the Declaration of the Establishment of the State of Israel, the surrounding Arab states—Egypt, Transjordan, Iraq and Syria—invaded what had just ceased to be Mandatory Palestine, and immediately attacked Israeli forces and several Jewish settlements. The conflict then turned into the 1948 Arab–Israeli War.\n\nUnder the control of a British administration since 1920, the area of Palestine found itself the object of a battle between Jewish Zionist nationalists and Palestinian Arab nationalists, who opposed one another just as much as they both opposed the British mandate.\n\nThe Palestinian Arab backlash culminated in the 1936–1939 Arab revolt in Palestine. Directed by Palestinian Arab nationalists, the rebels opposed Zionism, the British presence in Palestine and Palestinian Arab politicians who called for pan-Arabic nationalism at the same time. Both the British and the Zionist organizations of the time opposed the revolt; nonetheless, the Palestinian Arab nationalists did obtain from the British a drastic reduction of Jewish immigration, legislated by the 1939 White Paper. However, the consequences of the unsuccessful uprising were heavy. Nearly 5,000 Arabs and 500 Jews died; the various paramilitary Zionist organizations were reinforced, and the majority of the members of the Palestinian Arab political elite exiled themselves, such as Amin al-Husseini, leader of the Arab Higher Committee.\n\nAfter World War II and The Holocaust, the Zionist movement gained attention and sympathy. In Mandatory Palestine, Zionist groups fought against the British occupation. In the two and a half years from 1945 to June 1947, British law enforcement forces lost 103 dead, and sustained 391 wounded from Jewish militants. The Palestinian Arab nationalists reorganized themselves, but their organization remained inferior to that of the Zionists. Nevertheless, the weakening of the colonial British Empire reinforced Arab countries and the Arab League.\n\nThe Haganah, a Jewish paramilitary organization, was initially involved in the post-war attacks against the British in Palestine but withdrew following the outrage caused by the 1946 Irgun bombing of the British Army Headquarters in the King David Hotel. In May 1946, on the assumption of British neutrality in the future hostilities, a Plan C was formulated that envisaged guidelines for retaliation if and when Palestinian Arab attacks took place on the Yishuv. As the countdown ticked down, the Haganah implemented assaults involving the torching and demolition by explosives against economic infrastructures, the property of Palestinian politicians and military commanders, villages, town neighbourhoods, houses and farms that were deemed to be bases or used by inciters and their accomplices. The killing of armed irregulars and adult males was also foreseen. On 15 August 1947, on suspicion it was a terrorist headquarters, they blew up the house of the Abu Laban family, prosperous Palestinian orange growers, near Petah Tikva. Twelve occupants, including a woman and six children, were killed. After November 1947, the dynamiting of houses formed a key component of most Haganah retaliatory strikes.\n\nDiplomacy failed to reconcile the different points of view concerning the future of Palestine. On 18 February 1947, the British announced their withdrawal from the region. Later that year, on 29 November, the General Assembly of the United Nations voted to recommend the adoption and implementation of the partition plan with the support of the big global powers, but not of Britain nor of the Arab States.\n\nIn the aftermath of the adoption of Resolution 181(II) by the United Nations General Assembly recommending the adoption and implementation of the Plan of Partition, the manifestations of joy of the Jewish community were counterbalanced by protests by Arabs throughout the country and after 1 December, the Arab Higher Committee enacted a general strike that lasted three days.\n\nA 'wind of violence' rapidly took hold of the country, foreboding civil war between the two communities. Murders, reprisals, and counter-reprisals came fast on each other's heels, resulting in dozens of victims killed on both sides in the process. The impasse persisted as British forces did not intervene to put a stop to the escalating cycles of violence.\n\nThe first casualties after the adoption of Resolution 181(II) by the General Assembly were passengers on a Jewish bus driving on the Coastal Plain near Kfar Sirkin on 30 November. An eight-man gang from Jaffa ambushed the bus killing five and wounding others. Half an hour later they ambushed a second bus, southbound from Hadera, killing two more. Arab snipers attacked Jewish buses in Jerusalem and Haifa.\n\nIrgun and Lehi (the latter also known as the Stern Gang) followed their strategy of placing bombs in crowded markets and bus-stops. As on 30 December, in Haifa, when members of Irgun, threw two bombs at a crowd of Arab workers who were queueing in front of a refinery, killing 6 of them and injuring 42. An angry crowd massacred 39 Jewish people in revenge, until British soldiers reestablished calm. In reprisals, some soldiers from the strike force, Palmach and the Carmeli brigade, attacked the village of Balad ash-Sheikh and Hawassa. According to different historians, this attack led to between 21 and 70 deaths.\n\nAccording to Benny Morris, much of the fighting in the first months of the war took place in and on the edges of the main towns, and was initiated by the Arabs. It included Arab snipers firing at Jewish houses, pedestrians, and traffic, as well as planting bombs and mines along urban and rural paths and roads.\n\nFrom January onwards, operations became increasingly militarized.\n\nIn all the mixed zones where both communities lived, particularly Jerusalem and Haifa, increasingly violent attacks, riots, reprisals and counter-reprisals followed each other. Isolated shootings evolved into all-out battles. Attacks against traffic, for instance, turned into ambushes as one bloody attack led to another.\n\nOn 22 February 1948, supporters of Mohammad Amin al-Husayni organized, with the help of certain British deserters, three attacks against the Jewish community. Using car bombs aimed at the headquarters of the pro-Zionist \"Palestine Post\" newspaper, the Ben Yehuda St. market and the backyard of the Jewish Agency's offices, they killed 22, 53 and 13 Jewish people respectively, and injured hundreds. In revenge, Lehi put a landmine on the railroad track in Rehovot on which a train from Cairo to Haifa was travelling, killing 28 British soldiers and injuring 35. This would be copied on 31 March, close to Caesarea Maritima, which would lead to the death of forty people, injuring 60, who were, for the most part, Arab civilians.\n\nHaving recruited a few thousand volunteers, al-Husayni organized the blockade of the 100,000 Jewish residents of Jerusalem. To counter this, the Yishuv authorities tried to supply the city with convoys of up to 100 armoured vehicles, but the operation became more and more impractical as the number of casualties in the relief convoys surged. By March, Al-Hussayni's tactic had paid off. Almost all of Haganah's armoured vehicles had been destroyed, the blockade was in full operation, and hundreds of Haganah members who had tried to bring supplies into the city were killed. The situation for those who dwelt in the Jewish settlements in the highly isolated Negev and North of Galilee was even more critical.\n\nAccording to the Arab League general Safwat: \nDespite the fact that skirmishes and battles have begun, the Jews at this stage are still trying to contain the fighting to as narrow a sphere as possible in the hope that partition will be implemented and a Jewish government formed; they hope that if the fighting remains limited, the Arabs will acquiesce in the fait accompli. This can be seen from the fact that the Jews have not so far attacked Arab villages unless the inhabitants of those villages attacked them or provoked them first.\n\nAlthough a certain level of doubt took hold among Yishuv supporters, their apparent defeats were due more to their wait-and-see policy than to weakness. David Ben-Gurion reorganized Haganah and made conscription obligatory. Every Jewish man and woman in the country had to receive military training.\n\nThis situation caused the United States to withdraw their support for the Partition plan, thus encouraging the Arab League to believe that the Palestinian Arabs, reinforced by the Arab Liberation Army, could put an end to the plan for partition. The British, on the other hand, decided on 7 February 1948, to support the annexation of the Arab part of Palestine by Transjordan.\n\nWhile the Jewish population had received strict orders requiring them to hold their ground everywhere at all costs, the Arab population was more affected by the general conditions of insecurity to which the country was exposed. Up to 100,000 Arabs, from the urban upper and middle classes in Haifa, Jaffa and Jerusalem, or Jewish-dominated areas, evacuated abroad or to Arab centres eastwards.\n\nAs a consequence of funds raised by Golda Meir which were donated by sympathisers in the United States, and Stalin's decision to support the Zionist cause, the Jewish representatives of Palestine were able to sign very important armament contracts in the East. Other Haganah agents recuperated stockpiles from the Second World War, which helped improve the army's equipment and logistics. Operation Balak allowed arms and other equipment to be transported for the first time by the end of March.\n\nThere was an intervention of a number of Arab Liberation Army regiments inside Palestine, each active in a variety of distinct sectors around the different coastal towns. They consolidated their presence in Galilee and Samaria. Abd al-Qadir al-Husayni came from Egypt with several hundred men of the Army of the Holy War.\n\nGerman and Bosnian WWII veterans, including former intelligence, Wehrmacht, and Waffen SS officers, were among the 'volunteers' fighting for the Palestinian cause Veterans of WWII Axis militaries were represented in the ranks of the ALA forces commanded by Fawzi al-Qawuqji (who had been awarded an officer's rank in the Wehrmacht during WWII) and in the Mufti's forces, commanded by Abd al-Qadir (who had fought with the Germans against the British in Iraq) and Salama (who served as a Waffen SS commando during WWII). Some of the Germans who served the Mufti in his Nablus headquarters were Adolf Schwabe, Albert Grossman, and Rudolf Hoffman.\n\nBenny Morris writes that the Yishuv was more successful in attracting and effectively deploying foreign military professionals than their Arab adversaries. He concludes that the ex-Nazis and Bosnian Muslims recruited by the Palestinians, Egyptians, and Syrians \"proved of little significance\" to the outcome of the conflict.\n\nMorris says that by the end of March 1948, the Yishuv had suffered about a thousand dead. Ilan Pappé estimates that 400 Jews and 1,500 Arabs were killed by January 1948. In December the Jewish death toll was estimated over 200 and, according to Alec Kirkbride, by 18 January 333 Jews and 345 Arabs were killed while 643 Jews and 877 Arabs were injured. The overall death toll between December 1947 and January 1948 (including British personnel) was estimated at around 1,000 people, with 2,000 injured. According to Yoav Gelber, by the end of March there was a total of 2,000 dead and 4,000 wounded. These figures correspond to an average of more than 100 deaths and 200 casualties per week in a population of 2,000,000.\n\nViolence kept intensifying with the intervention of military units. Although responsible for law and order up until the end of the mandate, the British did not try to take control of the situation, being more involved in the liquidation of the administration and the evacuation of their troops. Furthermore, the authorities felt that they had lost enough men already in the conflict.\n\nThe British either could not or did not want to impede the intervention of foreign forces into Palestine. According to a special report by the UN Special Commission on Palestine:\n\nThis description corresponds to the entry of Arab Liberation Army troops between 10 January and the start of March:\n\n\nFawzi al-Qawuqji, Field Commander of the Arab Liberation Army, arrived, according to his own account, on 4 March, with the rest of the logistics and around 100 Bosniak volunteers in Jab'a, a small village on the route between Nablus and Jenin. He established a headquarters there and a training centre for Palestinian Arab volunteers.\n\nAlan Cunningham, the British High Commissioner in Palestine, thoroughly protested against the incursions and the fact that 'no serious effort is being made to stop incursions'. The only reaction came from Alec Kirkbride, who complained to Ernest Bevin about Cunningham's \"hostile tone and threats\".\n\nThe British and the information service of Yishuv expected an offensive for 15 February, but it would not take place, seemingly because the Mufti troops were not ready.\n\nIn March, an Iraqi regiment of the Arab Liberation Army came to reinforce the Palestinian Arab troops of Salameh in the area around Lydda and Ramleh, while Al-Hussayni started a headquarters in Bir Zeit, 10 km to the north of Ramallah. At the same time, a number of North African troops, principally Libyans, and hundreds of members of the Muslim Brotherhood entered Palestine. In March, an initial regiment arrived in Gaza and certain militants among them reached Jaffa.\n\nThe Arab combatants' initial victories reinforced morale among them. The Arab Higher Committee was confident and decided to prevent the set-up of the UN-backed partition plan. In an announcement made to the Secretary-General on 6 February, they declared:\n\nAt the beginning of February 1948, the morale of the Jewish leaders was not high: \"distress and despair arose clearly from the notes taken at the meetings of the Mapai party.\" \"The attacks against the Jewish settlements and main roads worsened the direction of the Jewish people, who underestimated the intensity of the Arab reaction.\" The situation of the 100,000 Jews situated in Jerusalem was precarious, and supplies to the city, already slim in number, were likely to be stopped. Nonetheless, despite the setbacks suffered, the Jewish forces, in particular Haganah, remained superior in number and quality to those of the Arab forces.\n\nThe high morale of the Arab fighters and politicians was not shared by the Palestinian Arab civilian population. The UN Palestine Commission reported 'Panic continues to increase, however, throughout the Arab middle classes, and there is a steady exodus of those who can afford to leave the country. 'From December 1947 to January 1948, around 70,000 Arabs fled, and, by the end of March, that number had grown to around 100,000.\n\nThese people were part of the first wave of Palestinian refugees of the conflict. Mostly the middle and upper classes fled, including the majority of the families of local governors and representatives of the Arab Higher Committee. Non-Palestinian Arabs also fled in large numbers. Most of them did not abandon the hope of returning to Palestine once the hostilities had ended.\n\nMany decisions were made abroad that had an important influence over the outcome of the conflict.\n\nBritain did not want a Palestinian state led by the Mufti, and opted unofficially instead, on 7 February 1948, to support the annexation of the Arab part of Palestine by Abdullah I of Jordan. At a meeting in London between the commander of Transjordan's Arab Legion, Glubb Pasha, and Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, Ernest Bevin, the two parties agreed that they would facilitate the entry of the Arab Legion into Palestine on 15 May and that the Arab part of Palestine be occupied by it. However, they held that the Arab Legion not enter the vicinity of Jerusalem or the Jewish state itself. This option did not envisage a Palestinian Arab state. Although the ambitions of King Abdullah are known, it is not apparent to what extent the authorities of Yishuv, the Arab Higher Committee or the Arab League knew of this decision.\n\nIn mid-March, after the increasing disorder in Palestine and faced with the fear, later judged unfounded, of an Arab petrol embargo, the US government announced the possible withdrawal of its support for the UN's partition plan and for dispatching an international force to guarantee its implementation. The US suggested that instead Palestine be put under UN supervision. On 1 April, the UN Security Council voted on the US proposal to convoke a special assembly to reconsider the Palestinian problem; the Soviet Union abstained. This U-turn by the US caused concern and debate among Yishuv authorities. They thought that after the withdrawal of British troops, the Yishuv could not effectively resist the Arab forces without the support of the US. In this context, Elie Sasson, the director of the Arab section of Jewish Agency, and several other personalities, persuaded David Ben-Gurion and Golda Meyerson to advance a diplomatic initiative to the Arabs. The job of negotiation was delegated to Joshua Palmon, who was prohibited from limiting the Haganah's liberty of action but was authorized to declare that \"the Jewish people were ready with a truce.\"\n\nIn the context of the embargo imposed upon Palestinian belligerents—Jewish and Arab alike—and the dire lack of arms by the Yishuv in Palestine, Soviet ruler Joseph Stalin's decision to breach the embargo and support the Yishuv with arms exported from Czechoslovakia played a role in the war that was differently appreciated. However, Syria also bought arms from Czechoslovakia for the Arab Liberation Army, but the shipment never arrived due to Haganah intervention.\n\nPossible motivations for Stalin's decision include his support of the UN Partition plan, and allowing Czechoslovakia to earn some foreign income after being forced to refuse Marshall Plan assistance.\n\nThe extent of this support and the concrete role that it played is up for debate. Figures advanced by historians tend to vary. Yoav Gelber spoke of 'small deliveries from Czechoslovakia arriving by air [...] from April 1948 onwards' whereas various historians have argued that there was an unbalanced level of support in favor of Yishuv, given that the Palestinian Arabs did not benefit from an equivalent level of Soviet support. In any case, the embargo that was extended to all Arab states in May 1948 by the UN Security Council caused great problems to them.\n\nArab leaders did what they possibly could to avoid being directly involved' in support for the Palestinian cause.\n\nAt the Arab League summit of October 1947, in Aley, the Iraqi general, Ismail Safwat, painted a realist picture of the situation. He underlined the better organization and greater financial support of the Jewish people in comparison to the Palestinians. He recommended the immediate deployment of the Arab armies at the Palestinian borders, the dispatching of weapons and ammunition to the Palestinians, and the contribution of a million pounds of financial aid to them. His proposals were rejected, other than the suggestion to send financial support, which was not followed up on. Nonetheless, a techno-military committee was established to coordinate assistance to the Palestinians. Based in Cairo, it was directed by Sawfat, who was supported by Lebanese and Syrian officers and representatives of the Higher Arab Committee. A Transjordian delegate was also appointed, but he did not participate in meetings.\n\nAt the December 1947 Cairo summit, under pressure by public opinion, the Arab leaders decided to create a military command that united all the heads of all the major Arab states, headed by Safwat. They still ignored his calls for financial and military aid, preferring to defer any decision until the end of the Mandate, but, nevertheless, decide to form the Arab Liberation Army, which would go into action in the following weeks. On the night of 20–21 January 1948, around 700 armed Syrians entered Palestine via Transjordan. In February 1948, Safwat reiterated his demands, but they fell on deaf ears: the Arab governments hoped that the Palestinians, aided by the Arab Liberation Army, could manage on their own until the International community renounced the partition plan.\n\nThe Arab Liberation Army was, in theory, financed and equipped by the Arab League. A budget of one million pounds sterling had been promised to them, due to the insistence of Ismail Safwat. In reality, though, funding never arrived, and only Syria truly supported the Arab volunteers in concrete terms. \nSyria bought from Czechoslovakia a quantity of arms for the Arab Liberation Army but the shipment never arrived due to Hagana force intervention.\n\nAccording to Lapierre & Collins, on the ground, logistics were completely neglected, and their leader, Fawzi al-Qawuqji, envisaged that his troops survive only on the expenses accorded to them by the Palestinian population. However, Gelber says that the Arab League had arranged the supplies through special contractors. They were equipped with different types of light weapons, light and medium-sized mortars, a number of 75 mm and 105 mm guns, and armoured vehicles but their stock of shells was small.\n\nThe situation that the Army of the Holy War and the Palestinian forces were in was worse. They could not rely on any form of foreign support and had to get by on the funds that Mohammad Amin al-Husayni could raise. The troops' armament was limited to what the fighters already had. To make things even worse, they had to be content with arms bought on the black market or pillaged from British warehouses, and, as a result, did not really have enough arms to wage war.\n\nUntil March, Haganah suffered also a lack of arms. The Jewish fighters benefitted from a number of clandestine factories that manufactured some light weapons, ammunition and explosives. The one weapon of which there was no shortage was locally produced explosives. However, they had far less than what was necessary to carry out a war: in November, only one out of every three Jewish combatants was armed, rising to two out of three within Palmach.\n\nThe Hagana sent agents to Europe and to the United States, in order to arm and equip this army.\nTo finance all of this, Golda Meir managed, by the end of December, to collect $25 million through a fundraising campaign set about in the United States to capitalize on American sympathisers to the Zionist cause. Out of the 129 million US dollars raised between October 1947 and March 1949 for the Zionist cause, more than $78 million, over 60%, were used to buy arms and munition.\n\nIn the last week of March alone, the losses sustained by Haganah were particularly heavy: they lost three large convoys in ambushes, more than 100 soldiers and their fleet of armoured vehicles.\n\nAll in all, West Jerusalem was gradually 'choked;' the settlements of Galilee could not be reached in any other way but via the valley of Jordan and the road of Nahariya. This along with the foreseen attack of the Arab states in May and the earlier projected departure date of the British pushed Haganah to the offensive and to apply Plan Dalet from April onwards.\n\nA leased transport plane was used for the Operation Balak first arms ferry flight from Czechoslovakia on the end of March 1948. At the beginning of April 1948, a shipment of thousands of rifles and hundreds of machine guns arrived at Tel Aviv harbor. With this big shipment, the Hagana could supply weapons to a concentrated effort, without taking over the arms of other Jewish territory and risking them being with no weapons. The Hagana went into the offensive, although still lacking heavy weapons.\n\nAfter the Arab states invasion at 15 May, during the first weeks of the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, the arms advantage leant in favour of the Arab states. From June, onwards, there was also a flow of heavy arms.\nFrom June, after the first truce, the advantage leant clearly towards the Israelis. This situation's changing was due to the contacts made in November 1947 and afterwards.\n\nThe Yishuv purchased rifles, machine guns and munitions from Czechoslovakia, which were mainly supplied after the British navy blockade was lifted on 15 May 1948, at the end of the British mandate. The Yishuv obtained from Czechoslovakia a supply of Avia S-199 fighter planes too and, later on in the conflict, Supermarine Spitfires. In the stockpiles left over from World War II, the Yishuv procured all the necessary equipment, vehicles and logistics needed for an army. In France, they procured armoured vehicles despite the ongoing embargo. The Yishuv bought machines to manufacture arms and munitions, forming the foundations of the Israeli armament industry.\n\nThe Yishuv bought at the United States, bombers and transport aircraft, which during Operation Balak were used to ferry arms and dismantled Avia S-199 fighter planes from Czechoslovakia to Israel, in defiance of the U.N embargo, for 3 months, starting at 12 May 1948. Some ships were also leased out from various European ports so that these goods could be transported by 15 May.\n\nHowever, for Ben-Gurion, the problem was also constructing an army that was worthy to be a state army.\n\nAfter 'having gotten the Jews of Palestine and of elsewhere to do everything that they could, personally and financially, to help Yishuv,' Ben-Gurion's second greatest achievement was his having successfully transformed Haganah from being a clandestine paramilitary organization into a true army. Ben-Gurion appointed Israel Galili to the position of head of the High Command counsel of Haganah and divided Haganah into 6 infantry brigades, numbered 1 to 6, allotting a precise theatre of operation to each one. Yaakov Dori was named Chief of Staff, but it was Yigael Yadin who assumed the responsibility on the ground as chief of Operations. Palmach, commanded by Yigal Allon, was divided into 3 elite brigades, numbered 10–12, and constituted the mobile force of Haganah. Ben-Gurion's attempts to retain personal control over the newly formed IDF lead later in July to The Generals' Revolt.\n\nOn 19 November 1947, obligatory conscription was instituted for all men and women aged between 17 and 25. By end of March 21,000 people had been conscripted. On 30 March the call-up was extended to men and single women aged between 26 and 35. Five days later a General Mobilization order was issued for all men under 40.\n\n\"From November 1947, the Haganah, (...) began to change from a territorial militia into a regular army. (...) Few of the units had been well trained by December. (...) By March–April, it fielded still under-equipped battalion and brigades. By April–May, the Haganah was conducting brigade size offensive.\"\n\nApart from on the coastline, Jewish yishuvim, or settlements, were very dispersed. Communication between the coastal area (the main area of Jewish settlements) and the peripheral settlements was by road. These road were an easy target for attacks, as most of them passed through or near entirely Arab localities. The isolation of the 100,000 Jewish people in Jerusalem and other Jewish settlements outside the coastal zone, such as kibbutz Kfar Etzion, halfway on the strategic road between Jerusalem and Hebron, the 27 settlements in the southern region of Negev and the settlements to the north of Galilee, were a strategic weakness for the Yishuv.\n\nThe possibility of evacuating these difficult to defend zones was considered, but the policy of Haganah was set by David Ben-Gurion. He stated that \"what the Jewish people have has to be conserved. No Jewish person should abandon his or her house, farm, kibbutz or job without authorization. Every outpost, every colony, whether it is isolated or not, must be occupied as though it were Tel Aviv itself.\" No Jewish settlement was evacuated until the invasion of May 1948. Only a dozen kibbutzim in Galilee, and those in Gush Etzion sent women and children into the safer interior zones.\n\nBen-Gurion gave instructions that the settlements of Negev be reinforced in number of men and goods, in particular the kibbutzim of Kfar Darom and Yad Mordechai (both close to Gaza), Revivim (south of Beersheba), and Kfar Etzion. Conscious of the danger that weighed upon Negev, the supreme command of Haganah assigned a whole Palmach battalion there.\n\nJerusalem and the great difficulty of accessing the city became even more critical to its Jewish population, who made up one sixth of the total Jewish population in Palestine. The long and difficult route from Tel Aviv to Jerusalem, after leaving the Jewish zone at Hulda, went through the foothills of Latrun. The 28-kilometre route between Bab al-Wad and Jerusalem took no less than three hours, and the route passed near the Arab villages of Saris, Qaluniya, Al-Qastal, and Deir Yassin.\n\nAbd al-Qadir al-Husayni arrived in Jerusalem with the intent to surround and besiege its Jewish community. He moved to Surif, a village to the southwest of Jerusalem, with his supporters—around a hundred fighters who were trained in Syria before the war and who served as officers in his army, Jihad al-Muqadas, or Army of the Holy War. He was joined by a hundred or so young villagers and Arab veterans of the British Army. His militia soon had several thousand men, and it moved its training quarters to Bir Zeit, a town near Ramallah. \n\nAbd al-Qadir's zone of influence extended down to the area of Lydda, Ramleh, and the Judean Hills where Hasan Salama commanded 1,000 men. Salama, like Abd al-Qadir, had been affiliated with Mufti Haj Amin al Husseini for years, and had also been a commander in the 1936–1939 Arab revolt in Palestine, participated in the Rashid Ali coup of 1941 and the subsequent Anglo-Iraqi War. Salama had re-entered Palestine in 1944 in Operation Atlas, parachuting into the Jordan Valley as a member of a special German--Arab commando unit of the Waffen SS. He coordinated with al-Husayni to execute a plan of disruption and harassment of road traffic in an attempt to isolate and blockade Western (Jewish) Jerusalem.\n\nOn 10 December, the first organized attack occurred when ten members of a convoy between Bethlehem and Kfar Etzion were killed.\n\nOn 14 January, Abd al-Qadir himself commanded and took part in an attack against Kfar Etzion, in which 1,000 Palestinian Arab combatants were involved. The attack was a failure, and 200 of al-Husayni's men died. Nonetheless, the attack did not come without losses of Jewish lives: a detachment of 35 Palmach men who sought to reinforce the establishment were ambushed and killed.\n\nOn 25 January, a Jewish convoy was attacked near the Arab village of al-Qastal. The attack went badly and several villages to the northeast of Jerusalem answered a call for assistance, although others did not, for fear of reprisals. The campaign for control over the roads became increasingly militaristic in nature, and became a focal point of the Arab war effort. After 22 March, supply convoys to Jerusalem stopped, due to a convoy of around thirty vehicles having been destroyed in the gorges of Bab-el-Wad.\n\nOn 27 March, an important supply convoy from Kfar Etzion was taken in an ambush in south of Jerusalem. They were forced to surrender all of their arms, ammunition and vehicles to al-Husayni's forces. The Jews of Jerusalem requested the assistance of the United Kingdom after 24 hours of combat. According to a British report, the situation in Jerusalem, where a food rationing system was already in application, risked becoming desperate after 15 May.\n\nThe situation in other areas of the country was as critical as the one of Jerusalem. The settlements of Negev were utterly isolated, due to the impossibility of using the Southern coastal road, which passed through zones densely populated by Arabs. On 27 March, a convoy of supplies (the Yehiam convoy) that was intended for the isolated kibbutzim north-west of Galilee was attacked in the vicinity of Nahariya. In the ensuing battle, 42–47 Haganah combatants and around a hundred fighters of the Arab Liberation Army were killed, and all vehicles involved were destroyed.\n\nThe second phase of the war, which began in April, marked a huge change in direction, as Haganah moved to the offensive.\n\nIn this stage, Arab forces were composed of around 10,000 men among which between 3,000 and 5,000 foreign volunteers serving in the Arab Liberation Army. Haganah and Palmach forces were steadily increasing. In March, they aligned around 15,000 men and in May around 30,000 who were better equipped, trained and organized.\n\nThe armed Palestinian groups were roundly defeated, Yishuv took control of some of the principal routes that linked the Jewish settlements, and as a consequence, Jerusalem was able to receive supplies again. Palestinian society collapsed. Many mixed cities were taken by the Haganah as well as Jaffa. A massive exodus was triggered.\n\nPlan Dalet was finalized on 10 March 1948, under the direction of Yigael Yadin. 75 pages long, it laid down the rules and the objects that were to be followed by Haganah during the second phase of the war. Its principal objective was to secure Yishuv's uninterrupted territorial connections, particularly in response to the war of the roads carried out by Al-Hussayni and in preparation for the Arab states' declared intervention. Plan Dalet caused quite a controversy among historians. Some see it as a plan that was primarily defensive and military in nature and a preparation against invasion, whereas others think that the plan was offensive in nature and aimed at conquering as much of Palestine as possible.\n\nAt the end of March 1948, Hussayni's troops prevented supply convoys from reaching Jerusalem. The city was besieged and the Jewish population was forced to adhere to a rationing system. Ben-Gurion decided to launch the operation Nachshon to open up the city and provide supplies to Jerusalem. Operation Nachshon marked the Haganah shift to the offensive, even before launching plan D.\n\nThe first orders were given on 2 April 1948 with diversion attacks including Qastel. Between 5–20 April 1500 men from the Givati and Harel brigades took control of the road to Jerusalem and allowed 3 or 4 convoys to reach the city.\n\nThe operation was a military success. All the Arab villages that blocked the route were either taken or destroyed, and the Jewish forces were victorious in all their engagements. Nonetheless, not all the objectives of the operation were achieved, since only 1800 tonnes of the 3,000 envisaged were transported to the city, and two months of severe rationing had to be assumed.\n\nAbd al-Qadir al-Husayni was killed during the night of 7–8 April, in the midst of the battles taking place in Al-Qastal. The loss of this charismatic Palestinian leader 'disrupted the Arab strategy and organization in the area of Jerusalem.' His successor, Emil Ghuri, changed tactics: instead of provoking a series of ambushes throughout the route, he had a huge road block erected at Bab al-Wad, and Jerusalem was once again isolated as a consequence.\n\nOperation Nachshon exposed the poor military organization of the Palestinian paramilitary groups. Due to lack of logistics, particularly food and ammunition, they were incapable of maintaining engagements that were more than a few hours away from their permanent bases.\n\nFaced with these events, the Arab Higher Committee asked Alan Cunningham to allow the return of the Mufti, the only person capable of redressing the situation. Despite obtaining permission, the Mufti did not get to Jerusalem. His declining prestige cleared the way for the expansion of the influence of the Arab Liberation Army and of Fawzi Al-Qawuqji in the Jerusalem area.\n\nMishmar HaEmek is a kibbutz that was founded by Mapam in 1930, in the Jezreel Valley, close to the road between Haifa and Jenin that passes the Megiddo kibbutz. It is situated in a place that Haganah officers considered to be on one of the most likely axes of penetration for a 'major Arab attack' against the Yishuv.\n\nOn 4 April, the Arab Liberation Army launched an attack on the kibbutz with the support of artillery. The attack was fought off by the members of the kibbutz, who were supported by Haganah soldiers. The artillery fire that had almost totally destroyed the kibbutz was stopped by a British column, who arrived on the scene by order of General MacMillan, and, on 7 April, Fawzi Al-Qawuqji accepted a 24-hour ceasefire, but required that the kibbutz be surrendered. The inhabitants of the kibbutz evacuated their children, and, after having consulted Tel Aviv, refused to surrender.\n\nOn 8 or 9 April, Haganah prepared a counter-offensive. Yitzhak Sadeh was put in charge of operations, with the order to 'clean out' the region. The battle lasted until 15 April. Sadeh's men besieged all the villages around the kibbutz, and the Arab Liberation Army had to retreat to its bases in Jabba. The majority of the inhabitants of the region fled, but those who did not were either imprisoned or expelled to Jenin. The villages were plundered by some kibbutznikim and razed to the ground with explosives with accordance to Plan Dalet.\n\nAccording to Morris, the Arab Liberation Army soldiers were demoralized by reports of the Deir Yassin massacre and the death of Abd al-Qadir al-Husayni. Throughout battle, they had generally been forced to withdraw and to abandon the people of the villages. Dominique Lapierre and Larry Collins report that Joshua Palmon, head of a unit of 6 men, failed to seize invaluable pieces of artillery, and they depict the events as a débâcle for which Fawzi Al-Qawuqji offered extravagant excuses, declaring in particular that the Jewish forces has 120 tanks, six squadrons of fighter and bomber aircraft and that they were supported by a regiment of gentile Russian volunteers. According to Morris, \"according to Ben-Gurion, some 640 Haganah soldiers had faced about twenty-five hundred ALA troops, with superior firepower—and bested them\". When the battle finished, Palmach forces continued 'cleaning' operations until 19 April, destroying several villages and forcing those who inhabited them to flee. Some villages were also evacuated under the instruction of Arab authorities.\n\nIn May, Irgun engaged in several operations in the region, razing a number of villages and killing some of their inhabitants, as did some detachments from the Golani and Alexandroni brigades.\n\nDeir Yassin is a village located 5 kilometres west of Jerusalem. On 9 April 1948, independently of operation Nachshon, around 120 Irgun and Lehi men attacked the village. They massacred between 100 and 120 inhabitants of the village, mostly civilians. The Haganah had approved the attack and assisted in it, but was not involved in the massacre.\n\nThe massacre led to indignation from the international community, the more so since the press of the time reported that the death toll was 254. Ben-Gurion roundly condemned it, as did the principal Jewish authorities: the Haganah, the Great Rabbinate and the Jewish Agency for Israel, who sent a letter of condemnation, apology and condolence to King Abdullah I of Jordan.\n\nAccording to Morris, \"the most important immediate effect of the atrocity and the media campaign that followed it was how one started to report the fear felt in Palestinian towns and villages, and, later, the panicked fleeing from them.\" Another important repercussion was within the Arab population of neighbouring Arab states, which, once again, increased its pressure on the representatives of these states to intervene and come to the aid of the Palestinian Arabs.\n\nOn 13 April, partly in revenge for the Deir Yassin massacre, a convoy that was driving towards Jerusalem's Hadassah Hospital on Mount Scopus was attacked by hundreds of Arabs. In the seven-hour battle 79 Jews were killed including doctors and patients. Thirteen British soldiers were present, but they stood by, only putting in a perfunctory attempt at intervention in the last moments of the massacre.\n\nLieutenant-Colonel Jack Churchill was present at the scene, and later testified that he had attempted to assist the Hadassah convoy by radioing for support, only for the request to be turned down.\n\nFollowing the 'fiasco' of Mishmar HaEmek, Fawzi Al-Qawuqji ordered the Druze regiment of the Arab Liberation Army into action, to carry out diversion operations. Druze soldiers took position in several Arab villages 12 kilometres to the east of Haifa, whence they occasionally attacked traffic and Jewish settlements, including Ramat Yohanan.\n\nThe Kibbutznikim and the Haganah soldiers that supported them forced back their attacks and razed the villages from which they launched their attacks. Having run out of ammunition, the Druze withdrew to their base in Shefa-'Amr, with one hundred casualties. After an initial failure, a battalion-sized Carmeli force on the night of 15–16 April overran the two villages. The Druze Battalion, on 16 April assaulted the Carmeli positions nine times but the Carmeli troops fought back. By afternoon, the exhausted Druze troops retreated. An Haganah report praised \"the well trained and very brave enemy forces.\"\n\nThe Druze had already made contact on several occasions with Yishuv agents and following their defeat at Ramat Yohanan, the Druze officers offered to defect and to join the ranks of Haganah. This proposition was discussed with Yigael Yadin, who refused the proposal but suggested that they could help to carry out sabotage operations behind the backs of the Arabs and to influence their comrades into deserting the army. By the start of May, 212 Wahab soldiers deserted. Taking into account the attitude of his men, Wahab met with Jewish liaison officers on 9 May and agreed to cooperate with Haganah. The two parties avoided clashes, and Wahab created a neutral enclave in the centre of Galilee. Wahab's army did not respond to calls for it to help fight Haganah's occupation of Acre, and avoided being present while Haganah occupied the police fortress of Shefa-'Amr during its evacuation by the British.\n\nThe position that the Druze took influenced their fate after the war. Given the good relationship between the Druze and Yishuv from 1930 onwards despite their collaboration with the Arab Higher Council and the Arab League, Ben-Gurion insisted that the Druze, as well as the Circassians and the Maronites benefit from a different position to that of the other Arabs.\n\nIn the context of Plan Dalet, mixed urban centres, or those on the borders of the Jewish state, were attacked and besieged by Jewish forces. Tiberias was attacked on 10 April and fell six days later; Haifa fell on 23 April, after only one day of combat (Operation Bi'ur Hametz), and Jaffa was attacked on 27 April but fell only after the British abandoned it (Operation Hametz). Safed and Beisan (Operation Gideon) fell on 11 May and 13 May respectively, within the framework of Operation Yitfah, and Acre fell on 17 May, within the framework of Operation Ben-Ami.\n\nThe Arab inhabitants of these towns fled or were expelled en masse. In these 6 cities, only 13,000 of the total of 177,000 Arab inhabitants remained by the end of May. This phenomenon ricocheted also in the suburbs and the majority of the zone's Arab villages.\n\n Galilee Panhandle, a zone in northeastern Galilee, between the Lake Tiberias and Metula, was the Jewish-controlled area that was the most distant and isolated from the area most densely populated by Jews, the coastal plain. The presence of the Lebanese border to the north, the Syrian border to east and the Arab presence in the rest of Galilee made it a probable target for intervention of the Arab armies. Within the framework of the Dalet plan, Yigael Yadin entrusted Yigal Allon, commander of the Palmach, with the responsibility of managing Operation Yiftah, whose objectives were to control all the aforementioned area and consolidate it ahead of the Arab attack that was planned for 15 May.\n\nAllon was in charge the 1st and 3rd Palmach battalions, which had to face the populace of Safed and several dozen Arab villages. The situation was made more problematic by the presence of the British, although they began their evacuation of the area. According to his analysis, it was essential that they empty the zone of any Arab presence to completely protect themselves; the exodus would also encumber the roads that the Arab forces would have to penetrate.\n\nOn 20 April, Allon launched a campaign that mixed propaganda, attacks, seizing control of strongholds that the British had abandoned, and destroying conquered Arab villages. On 1 May, a counter-offensive was launched by Arab militiamen against Jewish settlements but was ultimately unsuccessful. On 11 May, Safed fell, and the operation finished on 24 May after the villages of the valley of Hula were burnt down. Syrian forces' planned offensive in the area failed and, by the end of June, Galilee panhandle from Tiberias to Metula, incorporating Safed, was emptied of all its Arab population.\n\nOn 10 May, Golda Meir and Ezra Danin secretly went to Amman, to the palace of King Abdullah to discuss the situation with him. The situation that Abdullah found himself in was difficult. On one hand, his personal ambitions, the promises made by the Yishuv in November 1947 and the British approval of these promises pushed him to consider annexing the Arab part of Palestine without intervening against the future state of Israel. On the other hand, the pressure exerted by his people in reaction to the massacre of Deir Yassin, combined with their feelings with regard to the Palestinian exodus and his agreements with other members of the Arab League pushed him to be more strongly involved in the war against Israel. He also found himself in a position of power, having the benefit of military support from not only the Arab League, but the British. In his diary, Ben-Gurion wrote about Golda Meir's reaction to the meeting:\n\nHistorical analyses of the motivations and conclusions of this meeting differ. According to Dominique Lapierre and Larry Collins – as well as Israeli historiographers – the intention behind the Yishuv's negotiation was to obtain a peace treaty and avoid an attack by Arab forces. At that time, the balance of power was not favourable for them, but Meir did not manage to convince the King.\nAccording to Morris, Abdullah 'reconsidered the promises that he made in November to not be opposed to the partition plan,' but left Meir with the impression that he would make peace with the Jewish state once the civil war had finished.\n\nAvi Shlaim spoke of a 'tacit' agreement to prevent the division of Palestine with the Palestinians, arguing the idea that there was a collusion between the Hashemite Kingdom and Yishuv. The historian Yoav Gelber, however, rejected this idea and devoted an entire work to dismounting it.\n\nPierre Razoux indicated that 'the majority of experts consider it probable' that Ben-Gurion and King Abdullah had an understanding over dividing Palestine, and that only the pressure from the Arab states on Abdullah constrained him from following up on his promise. According to Razoux, this idea explains the attitude of the British, who, following this plan, would thereby fulfill the promises made by Arthur Balfour to the Yishuv and the Hashemite empire at the same time. He states that the presence of Arab Legion troops, before 15 May, near strategic positions held by the British is in this way easy to understand.\n\nIlan Pappé stressed that neither Abdullah's ministers, nor the Arab world itself, seemed to be privy to the discussions held between him and the Yishuv, even if his ambitions on Palestine were widely known. He also stated that Sir Alec Kirkbride and Glubb Pasha thought at the time that, at the very least, Azzam Pasha, the Secretary of the Arab League, must have known about Abdullah's double game.\n\nIt is certain, on the other hand, that Golda Meir and King Abdullah did not come to an agreement on the status of Jerusalem. On 13 May, the Arab Legion took Kfar Etzion, strategically located halfway along the road between Hebron and Jerusalem. On 17 May, Abdullah ordered Glubb Pasha, commander of the Arab Legion, to launch an attack against the Holy City.\n\nKfar Etzion is a group of four settlements established on the strategic route between Hebron and Jerusalem, right in the middle of Arab inhabited territory. It had 400 inhabitants at the end of 1947. After the adoption of Resolution 181(II), it was the object of Arab attacks. Ben-Gurion reinforced it on 7 December, protecting it with a Palmach division, but on 8 January, he authorized the evacuation of the women and children of the settlements.\n\nAfter 26 March, the last date on which a supply convoy successfully reached it, despite heavy losses of life, the defenders were completely isolated.\n\nOn 12 May, Arab Legion units started to attack the settlements. The motivations advanced include their desire to protect one of their last supply convoys before the embargo took effect, which had to travel down the road by Kfar Etzion. Another theory is that the block of settlements obstructed the deployment of the Legion in the area around Hebron, whose attack was one of Abdullah's principal objectives. External defences fell quickly, and, on 13 May, the first kibbutz was captured, and those who were taken prisoner were massacred; only four survived. Of the 131 defenders, 127, including 21 women, were killed, or massacred after they surrendered. The other three establishments surrendered, and the kibbutzim were first plundered, then razed to the ground. In March 1949 320 prisoners from the Etzion settlements were released from the \"Jordan POW camp at Mafrak\", including 85 women.\n\nThe events that took place at Kfar Etzion made apparent the limitations of the policy prohibiting evacuation. Although it was effective during civil war, when facing militias, isolated Jewish settlements could not resist the firepower of a regular army, and an evacuation could have made it possible to avoid the captivity or death of those who defended the settlements.\n\nAccording to Yoav Gelber, the fall and massacre of Kfar Etzion influenced Ben-Gurion's decision to engage the Arab Legion on its way to Jerusalem, although the Haganah General Staff were divided about whether the Legion should be challenged inside Jerusalem itself as such a move could harm the Jews in the city. Ben-Gurion left the final decision to Shaltiel. The battle for Jerusalem was thus set in motion.\n\nOperation Yevusi lasted two weeks, from 22 April 1948 to 3 May 1948. Not all objectives were achieved before the British enforced a cease-fire. A Palmach force occupied the strategically located San Simon monastery in Katamon. Arab irregulars attacked the monastery and a heavy battle evolved. Both sides had a lot of wounded and killed fighters. The Palmach considered a retreat while the wounded fighters would blow themselves up, but then it was realized that the Arab force was exhausted and could not continue the fighting. As a result, the Arab residents left the suburb and the southern besieged Jewish suburbs were released.\n\nThe Haganah intended to capture the Old City during the final days of the Mandate. Its attacks on the seam between East and West Jerusalem from 13–18 May (known as Operation Kilshon) were planned as the initial phase of this conquest.\n\nIn Jerusalem, the British held several strategically located security zones named \"Bevingrads\", at its centre. The city's radio station, telephone exchange and government hospital were located there, along with a number of barracks and the Notre Dame hostel, which dominated the city. One of the main objectives of Operation Kilshon was to take control of these zones of strategic importance while the British withdrew. On 13 May the Haganah extended its control of the Old City's Jewish Quarter and on 14th (having obtained the precise schedule of the evacuation with British complicity) took control of the Bevingrads, including the central post office and the Russian Church compound at 04:00. They surprised the Arab troops, who offered no resistance.\n\nA secondary objective of Operation Kilshon was to simultaneously create a continuous frontline between the various isolated Jewish localities. For this aim, Brigadier General David Shaltiel, Haganah's former envoy to Europe, was deployed along with a troop of 400 Haganah soldiers and 600 militia soldiers. Emil Ghuri, the new leader of the Army of the Holy War, also envisaged taking these districts and mobilized 600 soldiers for the mission, but prepared no specific operation.\n\nThe secondary aim was also successful. In the North of the city, Jewish forces seized Arab-populated Sheikh Jarrah, made a connection with Mount Scopus, and took the villages surrounding the American colony. In the South, they ensured the connection of the German and Greek colonies with Talpiot and Ramat Rahel, after having taken the Allenby barracks. A Palmach unit even re-established contact with the Jewish district in the Old City via the Zion Gate.\n\nThe irregular Arabic forces were rendered impotent and yielded to panic, calling the situation hopeless and announcing the imminent fall of the city.\n\nWithin the framework of Plan Dalet, Yigael Yadin intended to make a breakthrough in the west of Galilee, wherein a number of isolated Jewish settlements were situated. This zone, which covers the land from Acre all the way to the Lebanese border, was allocated to the Arabs by the Partition plan, but was on the road through which Lebanese forces intended to enter into Palestine.\n\nThe command of this operation was entrusted to Moshe Carmel, head of the Carmeli brigade. It consisted of two phases: the first began on the evening of 13 May, when a column of Haganah's armoured vehicles and lorries advanced along the coast with no resistance. The forces of the Arab Liberation Army fled without entering battle, and the first phase of the operation finished when Acre was taken on 18 May. In the second phase, from 19 May to 21 May, troops went as far as the Yehi'am kibbutz by the Lebanese border, connecting it and conquering and destroying a number of Arab villages on the way.\n\nHaganah's move to offensive operations during the second phase of the war was accompanied by a huge exodus that involved 350,000 Arab refugees, adding to the 100,000 displaced during the First wave. The term 'Palestinian exodus' is often used to refer to both these and two subsequent waves. These two waves gained a considerable amount of press interest and were widely relayed in the press of the time, more so than most other Palestine-related events.\n\nThe causes of and responsibility for this exodus are highly controversial topics among commentators on the conflict and even historians who specialize in this era. Among the various possible causes, Efraim Karsh attributes the exodus mainly to Arab authorities' instructions to escape, whereas others argue that a policy of expulsion had been organized by the Yishuv authorities and implemented by Haganah. Others yet reject these two assumptions and see the exodus as the cumulative effect of all the civil war's consequences.\n\nDuring the last meeting of the Arab League in February 1948, the Arab leaders expressed their convictions in the capacity of the Arab Liberation Army to help the Palestinians and to force the international community to give up on the UN-backed partition plan. The following summit took place in Cairo on 10 April, with the situation having clearly developed with the death of Al-Hussayni and the debacle at Mishmar Ha'emek.\n\nOnce again, Ismail Safwat called for the immediate deployment of the Arab state armies at the borders of Palestine, and for the need to go beyond the established policy of participating in little more than small-scale raids towards taking part in large-scale operations. For the first time, the Arab leaders discussed the possibility of intervening in Palestine.\n\nSyria and Lebanon declared themselves ready to intervene immediately, but King Abdullah refused to let the Arab Legion forces intervene immediately in favour of the Palestinians, a move which irritated the Secretary-General of the League, who declared that Abdallah only cedes to the British diktat.\n\nNonetheless, Abdullah declared himself ready to send the Legion to assist the Palestinian cause after 15 May. In response, Syria insisted that the Egyptian army also take part, and, in spite of the opposition of Egypt's prime minister, King Farouk responded favourably to the Syrian request, but due to his aim of curbing the Jordanians' hegemonic goals rather than his desire to help the Palestinians.\n\nLater on, following the visit of several Palestinian dignitaries in Amman, and despite the opposition of Syria and the Mufti, Haj Amin al-Husseini, Azzam Pasha accepted Abdullah's proposition and sent Ismail Safwat to Amman to organize a coordination between the Arab Liberation Army and Jordan's Arab Legion. It was decided that command over the operations would be reserved for King Abdullah, and that the Iraqis would deploy a brigade in Transjordan to prepare for intervention on 15 May.\n\nOn 26 April, the 'intention to occupy Palestine' was officially announced at the Transjordanian parliament and the Jewish people were 'invited to place themselves beneath King Abdullah's jurisdiction.' The intention to spare their lives was also promised. Yishuv perceived this declaration as being one of war and encourages the Western world to pressure the King, through diplomatic means, to prevent his intervention.\n\nOn 30 April, Jordanians, Egyptians and Iraqis disputed the command of Abdullah. Abdullah received the honorary title of Commander-in-Chief, while the Iraqi general, Aldine Nur Mahmud, was named Chief of Staff. Despite this show of unity, it was agreed that each army would act independent of each other in the theatre of operations.\n\nOn 4 May, the Iraqi task force arrived at Mafraq. It was composed of a regiment of armoured tanks, a regiment of mechanized infantry, and twenty-four artillery weapons, and included 1500 men. The Egyptians formed two brigades, deploying around 700 men into the Sinai. The Syrians could not put together a better force, whereas the Lebanese announced that they could not take part in military operations on 10 May.\n\nIt was only two days before, on 8 May, that the British Foreign Office was certain of the Arab invasion. Whereas British analysts considered that all Arab armies, except the Arab Legion, were not prepared for the engagements to come, the Egyptian officers claimed that their advance would be 'a parade with the least risk,' and that their army 'would be in Tel Aviv after just two weeks.'\n\nThe state of preparation of the army was such that they did not even have maps of Palestine. At the time, the final plans of invasion had not even been established yet. British leaders tried in vain to make the Arab leaders reconsider their decision, and Ismail Safwat resigned in indifference, but the Arab states seemed resolute. On 15 May 1948, the Arab League announced officially that it would intervene in Palestine to guarantee the security and right to self-determination of the inhabitants of Palestine in an independent state.\n\nAccording to Benny Morris, the result of these five and a half months of fighting was a \"decisive Jewish victory\". On one side, the \"Palestinian Arab military power was crushed\" and most of the population in the combat zones was fleeing or had been driven out. On the other side, the \"Haganah transformed from a militia into an army\" and succeeded \"in consolidating its hold on a continuous strip of territory embracing the Coastal Plain, the Jezreel Valley, and the Jordan Valley.\" The Yishuv proved it had the capability to defend itself, persuading the United States and the remainder of the world to support it and the \"victory over the Palestinian Arabs gave the Haganah the experience and self-confidence [...] to confront [...] the invading armies of the Arab states.\"\n\nAccording to Yoav Gelber, during the six weeks between the Haganah offensive on 1 April and the invasion of the Arab armies, the Arabs were defeated in almost every front. The Jewish forces captured four cities (Tiberias, Jaffa, Safed, and Haifa) and 190 villages; most of their residents fled. The refugees flooded Samaria, central Galilee, Mount Hebron region, Gaza region, as well as Transjordan, Lebanon, and southern Syria. With the defeat of the Palestinian forces and the ALA, the Arab League saw no other option than to invade at the end of the British Mandate. The process of deciding to invade and preparing for the attack began two or three weeks before the end of the Mandate, when the level of the defeat was revealed and it was clear the ALA could not prevent it.\n\nAlthough the Haganah was a poorly armed ragtag militia, its offensive of the last weeks went well, because Arab villages did not come to the help of their neighboring Arab villages or towns. Moreover, only a few young Arab men from untouched areas (e.g. Nablus, Hebron) participated in the fighting in Jerusalem, Haifa, etc. Anwar Nusseibeh, a supporter of the Mufti, said the Mufti refused to issue arms to anyone except his political supporters and only recruited his supporters for the forces of the Holy War Army. This partially accounts for the absence of an organized Arab force and for the insufficient amount of arms, which plagued the Arab defenders of Jerusalem.\n\nOn 14 May 1948, David Ben-Gurion, on behalf of the Jewish leadership, \"declared the establishment of a Jewish state in Eretz Israel, to be known as the State of Israel\". The 1948 Palestine war entered its second phase with the intervention of the Arab state armies and the beginning of the 1948 Arab–Israeli War.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52467007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52467007", "title": "A. Monem Mahjoub", "text": "A. Monem Mahjoub\n\nA. Monem Mahjoub (born May 4, 1963) is a Libyan linguist, philosopher, poet, historian, and political critic. Sometimes described as \"the last Sumerian\", his major works are in the fields of linguistics, philology, historiography, religion and humanistic thought, civilization development and politics. As a prolific author he has written more than twenty five books.\n\nMahjoub was born in the Libyan town of Sorman, located east of the archaeological site of the city of Sabratha. As a youngster he was attracted by the residual remnants of the Roman and Phoenician civilizations. In this time, he documented those moments in a large photo collection. Having completed his primary education, he moved to study Industrial Management at George Brown College in Toronto, Canada where he studied for two years. He received a Master of Philosophy degree at Hassan University in Morocco. His Ph.D thesis under the title of Culture and Communication arts Theory in 1999.\n\nMahjoub argues that he continues to amend an academic percept in the fields of linguistics has been lasted since the late nineteenth century, related to the Sumerian language, which originated in the shores of Tigris and Euphrates in southern Mesopotamia in the 4th millennium B.C. Mahjoub dismisses the idea that Sumerian was an isolated language and that its influence did not extend to the formulation of the world, especially Afroasiatic languages. He published his tour de force work \"Pre-language, Sumerian roots of Arabic and AfroAsiatic languages\", presenting Afroasiology as a new coded term in the field of historical linguistics, claiming that Sumerian is the embryonic stage of the Afroasiatic languages, including Arabic.\nMahjoub has endeavoured through books issued later to support the theoretical hypothesis demonstrated in his \"Pre-language\". He tracked and memorized phonetic changes that overlapped the Afroasiatic languages, by comparing Sumerian, Akkadian, Arabic and ancient Egyptian. He concluded that the Sumerian and Akkadian superposition is more than borrowed vocabulary, popularized as a result of the representation of the two languages in the same cuneiform writing, but that the Sumerian syllables are an embedded substratum in Akkadian and Arabic. He has also concluded that there are Afroasiatic arrays descended from the Sumerian, and that the Sumerian single and dual syllables are inherent in Akkadian, Arabic, Egyptian and other Afroasiatic languages and spoken dialects.\n\nRelated to this hypothesis, Mahjoub updated the primeval Arabic language to start from the fourth millennium BC, i.e. since the cuneiform writing appeared to codify the Sumerian language. Further to that the historical origination of the Arabs themselves must start from 12 thousand years, since the emergence of the vanguard of the Sumerians in Mesopotamia following the last ice age regression.\n\nThese results reflected on his further writings in philosophical propositions by stating that the Sumerian epics produced Chaldean wisdom that produced the concept of the logos, which would later be structurized in Greece and turned into an abstract mind out of history mobility then with western philosophers, whom claim to inherit Greece, the Greek philosophy became contrarian to the east despite of being a product of eastwards.\n\nMahjoub believes that the current Islam is a new phase of a religion that has been changing since the third century AH (ninth century AD), and it has been remade in the twentieth century out of a farrago of clerical ideas by contemporary clergy, and that the multilayered understanding of Islam is reshaped to comply with ancient tribal traditions which are still powerful in the modern era, due to the control of the Muslim clerics who aspire to establish a theological authority in the Arab countries under the name of Islam. Thinking of faith as an individual matter, he considers freedom of belief to be the most necessary need in Islamic societies.\nHe published his \"Manifesto against the Islamic priesthood\" in Tunis, calling to liberate faith from the control of Islamic clergy and to rescue the civil life from religious intervention. He wrote ironically to clerics, \"Unchain faith, thus it can leave the muddy body and rise to sky\", but in direct words, \"Lock up Islam in mosques, Christianity in churches, and Judaism in Synagogues. Religion is an indoor activity. It's of temples not of streets\".\n\nMahjoub's career and cultural participations began in the 1980s, with intellectual and literary contributions in events held by Libyan and Arab world institutions and scientific centers, such as Academy of Jamahiry Thought in Tripoli, Alfateh University, Institute of Graduate Studies and Union of Writers.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41184019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41184019", "title": "Abdul Bari Jahani", "text": "Abdul Bari Jahani\n\nAbdul Bari Jahani () is an Afghan poet, novelist, historian and journalist.He Was born In Khandar Afghanistan On 15 Sep. 1950\n\nHe was born in Ahmad Shahyee area of Kandahar city, in southern Afghanistan. Jahani often recalls his old good days of childhood in Kandahar where he spent most of his teenage years and talks about how Kandahar was once a melting pot and a common home for all ideologies and beliefs. In his Raazo-Niyaaz book Jahani talks about how he grew up playing in Kandahar as a kid and how peaceful Kandahar was during his high school time. Jahani\n\nJahani is from the Lodin tribe, a sub-tribe of Ghilzai, one of the two main tribes of Pashtuns. Abdul Bahari Jahani considers the diversity of Afghanistan with various tribes and ethnic groups as the country's strength, and thinks that Afghans have shown throughout the history of their country that they are united and one hand. Their unity is better portrayed when they face an outside threat as a nation or when their country is celebrating a national victory.\n\nAbdul Bari Jahani completed his primary, secondary and high school in Mirwais Nika high school of Kandahar city--- a well -known public school in the south. Kandahar University was not yet built when Jahani finished his high school. Upon completing his high school at Mirwais Nika, Jahani only had two options for his higher education. He could either move to Kabul to study what he wanted to study which was history and literature or move to Nangarhar province—home to the second Afghan university at the time in the country. He chose the former one because unlike Kabul University where students had the option to pursue various majors, Nangarhar University only offered education in the field of medicine. \nJahani graduated from Kabul University in 1972 with a BA in Pashto literature and history. Upon his graduation from Kabul University, Jahani joined the Pashto Tolana which is a very prestigious literature body in Afghanistan whose members have been prominent Afghan philosophers, historians, poets and writers. Getting into Pashto Tolana is the equivalent of getting into Harvard Law Review if someone was pursuing legal education in the U.S. Pashto Tolana approves the entrance of new terminologies into Pashto language and is tasked to develop Pashto language to be richer in terms of new vocabulary. Jahani had tremendous contribution to the development of Pashto language while at Pashto Tolana\n\nJahani has just been given parliamentary vote of approval to serve as a minister in the cabinet of Afghan unity government 2015 for the ministry of information and culture.\n\nBesides being a member of the Pashto Tolana (Pashto Society), Jahani served as the Managing-Editor of a well-known Afghan magazine, Kabul Magazine. Under his leadership, Kabul Magazine witnessed considerable increase in its readership. In his capacity as the Managing Editor of the Magazine, Jahani oversaw the flow of hundreds of informative and educative social, economic and political articles aimed at keeping the Afghan public aware of the state of affairs of their country. Subsequently, Jahani served in the Afghan Ministry of Education (MoE) for two years before he was forced to leave the country during the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. Jahani’s mission from the very beginning was to inspire Afghan society to walk towards knowledge and education and for that noble goal he join the Afghan government’s education sector.\n\nCommunists and leftists feared voices of prominent figures like Jahani and began a government planned campaign against influential and intellectual figures. Jahani migrated to Pakistan as a refugee and after two years of living as a refugee there, Jahani was offered a job with the Voice of America in Washington DC. Jahani accepted the offer and joined the Voice of America’s Pashto service in 1983 as an International broadcaster. He has contributed extensively to Pashto language programing of the Radio. Jahani hosted political talk shows, news hour shows and poetry shows at the Voice of America. His poetry show of late 11PM called “Da Ashnayaano Adabi dera” had listeners in the entire South Asian region and the Middle East. His poetry show had listeners from different age groups including youths and elders. One of his most famous poem which had a huge demand and continues to have, was the story of “three cows and one wolf” that was written in the language of poetry. The moral of the poem is unity. Like most of his other poetry, in his “three cow one wolf” poem Jahani speaks to his audiences in a plain, natural and understandable language. He warns them of what is at stake if Afghans remain divided and what could be achieved if Afghans leave behind their differences and get united behind a common goal of building a prosperous, stable and peaceful Afghanistan.\n\nJahani continued to use his able mind and pen and VOA provided him the platform to convey his message of enlightenment to various parts of Afghanistan. With Jahani’s contribution and dedication to excellence and his prominence and popularity amongst Afghans, VOA’s Pashto service ratings and listeners have soared. Jahani’s career as a journalist with the Voice of America has earned him several recognitions and medals from the leadership of the Voice of America. He retired from the Voice of America in 2010, but never ceased to end his advocacy for Afghan unity, Afghan education and Afghan prosperity. He regularly gets offers to speak at various Afghan events held in Afghanistan, Middle East, Europe and the United States and regularly gets interview request by various Afghan TV and Radio stations in Afghanistan and around the world. Not only that Jahani’s articles about social, political and economic situation of Afghanistan are well received by various public and private print and online media outlets in Afghanistan and around the world. Jahani regularly visits Afghanistan and speak at various events including seminars discussing Pashto literature and education.\n\nJahani often refers to the hardships of leaving behind the place where he was born and learned how to walk. His obsession with his homeland, Afghanistan and his constant commendation of all parts of Afghanistan in his poetry has earned him a special place in the hearts of all Afghans from all walks of life and from all ethnic groups. Through his poetry, he commends the beautiful rivers, mountains, ranches and deserts of Afghanistan and how expresses pride in them. In his Wraka Mena ( lost home) poetry collection, Jahani expresses his deep love and compassion for his homeland Afghanistan. The title of the book means lost homeland. In Jahani’s words this book is dedicated to those who have been convicted by fate, whose mouths have been forcibly shut by the unjust rulers and whose pens have been limited by the people of the time.\n\nJahani is a prominent Pashtun poet of the 21st century. He is considered to be the contemporary Rahman Baba and Khushal Khan Khattak who are two prominent Afghan warrior poets of the 17th century. Jahani’s poetry has various themes including epic, romance, patriotism, bravery and a message of enlightenment. He has published dozens of books in poetry and has translated several Persian poetry books from Farsi into Pashto in the language of poetry which is a difficult task to undertake. Besides that Jahani has translated several English books into Pashto. His main poetry books include: \n\nJahani’s novels and history books include:\n\nJahani is considered the most prominent Pashtun poet of the contemporary era. Because of his prominence in Pashto literature and poetry, he was officially requested by the President of Afghanistan, Hamid Karzai to write the Afghan National Anthem in late 2006. Prior to that, Jahani also advised the Afghan commission tasked with writing the new constitution in 2004. Jahani's anthem (Pashto: ملي سرود - Milli Surood; Dari: سرود ملی - \"Surud-e Milli\") was adopted and officially announced at a meeting of the Loya Jirga in May 2006. The English translation and the Pashto transliteration of the Afghan National Anthem are as follows:\n\nHis poem Wyaar (Pride) has been translated into English by Dawood Azami and the Poetry Translation Centre.\n\nJahani is considered a very influential person in Afghanistan and politicians often rely on his influence over all Afghans particularly Pashtuns in the South and East of the country. Presidential hopefuls during both 2005 and 2009 elections have tried to get Jahani to back their bids for presidency to attract more voters from the south and the east of Afghanistan. Jahani is believed to be in favor of politicians who work for all Afghans regardless of their ethnicity and political affiliations. Jahani believes in a united Afghanistan and often backed leaders who represent all Afghans from all ethnic groups. Jahani backed Dr. Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai in the 2009 Afghan presidential elections; Ashraf Ghani became the president of Afghanistan in the April 2014 presidential elections.\n\nJahani was supported by a large number of Afghans, particularly youths to run for president himself in the 2014 elections, but he chose not to and his favorite candidate for the presidency is yet to be determined. Whomever Jahani sides with will have a better chance of victory in the southern region of Afghanistan. If one person could unite Pashtuns of the south in the contemporary era, it will be Jahani because there is a lot respect in Afghanistan particularly in the south for his sense of patriotism, his pride in Afghan history and his intellectual abilities. Jahani is a strong critic and opponent of corruption in Afghanistan and his intellectual crusade against the rampant corruption of the Afghan government has impacted his relationships with President Karzai who has a long-standing friendship with Jahani. Their friendship witnessed further rift when Jahani backed the bid of Ashraf Ghani Ahmadzai for president in the 2009 elections of Afghanistan in which Hamid Karzai won a second term in office.\n\nJahani is criticized by some for basing some of his poetry on an epic theme which according to critics invites people to war and violence, but his proponents not only defend his epic poetry and his efforts to depict Afghan history in the language of poems, but also claim that Jahani’s poetry invites Afghans to unity, solidarity, peace, education and progress. His recent poem that sparked a national debate amongst scholars about what role intellectuals could play in conflict resolution efforts was about a suicide bomber and his mother in which he depicted good through the role of a desperate mother and bad through the role of a brainwashed son who wanted to carry out a suicide attack for a quest to earn heaven and salvation. Some critics viewed the poem as recognition of suicide attacks as a legit and glorifying act while others viewed the poem as informative and educative for those people who fall victims of terrorists and extremists. The poem lets mother mercy and humanity win over the hatred, violence and evil of the to-be suicide bomber son. The poem is written in a dialogue form between a mother and a son. The poem is set to music by Afghan singer Bashir Maidani with the title \"Nasihat\" available on YouTube and Maidani's 2011 album \"Afsoz\"; the song is very popular amongst Pashtoons in the world because of Jahani's excellent poetry.\n\nJahani’s poems have been picked by well-known Afghan singers such as Dr. Fetrat Nashnas, Farhaad Darya, Waheed Qasemi, Waheed Saberi, Bashir Maidani and other Afghan singers.\n\n"}
{"id": "40448356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40448356", "title": "Adubi War", "text": "Adubi War\n\nThe Adubi War (known locally as Ogun Adubi or Egba Uprising) was a conflict in June and July 1918 in the British Colony and Protectorate of Nigeria ostensibly because of the imposition of colonial taxation. Direct taxes were introduced by the colonial government along with existing forced labour obligations and fees. On the 7th June, the British arrested 70 Egba chiefs and issued an ultimatum that resisters should lay down their arms, pay the taxes and obey the local leadership.\n\nOn 11 June, a party of soldiers, recently returned from East Africa, were brought in to help police the area and keep the peace. On 13 June, Egba rebels pulled up railway lines at Agbesi and derailed a train. Other rebels demolished the train station at Wasinmi and murdered the British agent; the Oba Osile, the African leader of the north-eastern Egba district. Hostilities between the 30,000 rebels and colonial troops continued for about three weeks at Otite, Tappona, Mokoloki and Lalako but by the 10th July, the rebellion had been put down and the leaders killed or arrested.\n\nAbout 600 people were killed, including the British agent and the Oba Osile, although this may have been due to a dispute over land and unconnected to the uprising. The incident led to the abrogation of Abeokutan independence in 1918 and the introduction of forced labour in the region; imposition of the direct taxes was postponed until 1925. British soldiers who repressed the revolt received the Africa General Service Medal.\n\n"}
{"id": "24067936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24067936", "title": "Borussian myth", "text": "Borussian myth\n\nThe Borussian myth or Borussian legend is the name given by 20th-century historians of German history to the earlier idea that German unification was inevitable, and that it was Prussia's destiny to accomplish it. The Borussian myth is an example of a teleological argument. \"Borussia\" is the Latin name for Prussia.\n\nA teleological argument holds all things to be designed for, or directed toward, a specific final result. That specific result gives events and actions, even retrospectively, an inherent purpose. When applied to the historical process, an historical teleological argument posits the result as the inevitable trajectory of a specific set of events. These events lead \"inevitably,\" as Karl Marx or Friedrich Engels proposed, to a specific set of conditions or situations; the resolution of those lead to another, and so on. This goal-oriented, 'teleological' notion of the historical process as a whole is present in a variety of arguments about the past: the \"inevitability,\" for example, of the revolution of the proletariat and the \"Whiggish\" narrative of past as an inevitable progression towards ever greater liberty and enlightenment that culminated in modern forms of liberal democracy and constitutional monarchy.\n\nThe narrative of the heroic past fell to such nationalist German historians as Heinrich von Treitschke (1834–1896), Theodor Mommsen (1817–1903), and Heinrich von Sybel (1817–1895), to name three. Treitschke in particular viewed Prussia as the logical agent of unification. These historical arguments can also be called the grand, or great, narratives but they are inherently ethnocentric, at least when applied to the historical process. Treitschke's\" History of Germany in the Nineteenth Century\", published in 1879, has perhaps a misleading title: it privileges the history of Prussia over the history of other German states, and it tells the story of the German-speaking peoples through the guise of Prussia's destiny to unite all German states under its leadership. The creation of this myth (\"Borussia\" is the Latin name for Prussia) established Prussia as Germany's savior; it was the destiny of all Germans to be united, this myth maintains, and it was Prussia's destiny to accomplish this. According to this story, Prussia played the dominant role in bringing the German states together as a nation-state; only Prussia could protect German liberties from being crushed by French or Russian influence. This interpretation emphasizes Prussia's role in saving Germans from the resurgence of Napoleon's power in 1814, at Waterloo, creating some semblance of economic unity through the \"Zollverein\" (German customs union), and uniting Germans under one proud flag after the defeat of France in the Franco Prussian War in 1871.\n\nAfter World War II, various historians of Germany sought to re-examine the German past, in part to understand the immediate German past and the Holocaust, and in part to understand Germany's supposed democratic deficit: Theoretically, Germans were inexperienced with democracy and self-government because their experience in unification came under the leadership of the least democratic of the German states (Prussia). This inevitably led to, first, World War I, and second the failure of the Weimar Republic, third, to the rise of National Socialism, and fourth, to World War II.\n\nThe Borussian myth was linked to the \"Sonderweg\" theory of Germany's \"peculiar road\" to modernity. The set of circumstances that predated the Unification, for example, the so-called failure of the 1848 German revolutions and the elimination of Austria as a possible leader in the unification process strengthen the myth's appeal. In this way, teleological arguments tend to work backward from an event, to describe and rationalize all trends leading to it; they are genealogical—trace from the present to the past—rather than historical, which explores the past to the present.\n\nIn the 1970s, and later, as social and cultural historians examined nineteenth-century German history in greater depth, they realized that not only was there a vibrant and lively German culture without Prussia, but they also deconstructed significant elements of the \"Sonderweg\" theory as well. They discovered, for example, that the 1848 Revolutions in Germany actually had some significant successes. Indeed, the history of 19th-century Germany was not a long process of grinding under the heel of Prussian militarism, but instead a process of economic expansion, testing of democratic institutions, the writing and testing of constitutions, and the creation of social insurance systems to maintain long term economic security.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33657826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33657826", "title": "British Records Association", "text": "British Records Association\n\nThe British Records Association (widely known as the BRA, pronounced as three letters) is a British learned society founded in 1932 concerned with historic records and archives. It is a registered charity (no. 227464). It issues a journal, \"Archives\", and other publications; hosts conferences and seminars; and undertakes other activities to promote the care and preservation of archives and the interests of archive users at a national level. Membership is open to all, and the association (in contrast to exclusively scholarly bodies, and exclusively professional bodies) therefore plays a particular role as a forum which brings together owners of archives, academic and amateur documentary researchers, archivists and librarians, and institutions and societies concerned with archives.\n\nThe association was formally founded in 1932, but it took over the Records Preservation Section established three years earlier in 1929 by the British Record Society (see below). The similarity of name between the two bodies was a deliberate choice, made in order to emphasise continuity.\n\nThe formation of the new association – and its not entirely amicable split from the BRS – was largely the initiative of (Sir) Hilary Jenkinson. He remained the BRA's guiding force for nearly 30 years. From 1930 to 1932 he had served as Secretary of the Drafting Committee which established the association; and he subsequently served as its Joint Honorary Secretary 1932–47; Chairman of the Records Preservation Section 1947–61; Vice-President of the association 1954–61; and as a member of most of its committees. Other active members in the early years included G. H. Fowler, Joan Wake, Irene Churchill, Kathleen Major, William Le Hardy, and H. M. Cashmore.\n\nPrior to the establishment of the Society of Local Archivists in 1947, the BRA was the closest that Britain had to a professional association for archivists, and it played a central role in laying down professional standards and principles, and in promoting the establishment of professionally staffed local archive services in the post-War years.\n\nDuring the Second World War, when the British government promoted a salvage campaign to encourage the recycling of waste paper, the BRA ran a vigorous counter-campaign to safeguard against the over-enthusiastic destruction of records of historical value. In 1943, it produced a report on \"British Records after the War\", which proposed legislation to control local and private archives. Although most of its proposals proved to be too draconian for general acceptance, they did lead to the establishment of the National Register of Archives in 1945.\n\nFrom 1976 to 1992, the BRA's administrative secretary was the former Soviet spy John Vassall, who, following his release from prison, had begun a new life under the name John Phillips.\n\nBy tradition, the president of the association is the Master of the Rolls of the day. The current president is therefore Sir Terence Etherton. At the time of the BRA's foundation, and until 1958, the Master of the Rolls was also Keeper of Public Records, and nominal head of the Public Record Office. Under the Public Records Act 1958, responsibility for public records was transferred from the Master of the Rolls to the Lord Chancellor; but the BRA chose not to follow this lead.\n\nThe association has published a journal, \"Archives\", twice-yearly since 1949. It is peer-reviewed, and contains a range of articles relating to the history, preservation, accessibility and use of archives, historical case-studies drawing heavily on archival research, and discussions of archival trends, theories and practices. It also carries reports and reviews of recent archival publications, web sites, exhibits and events. From spring 2019, the journal will be published on behalf of the Association by Liverpool University Press.\n\nThe journal's editors have been: Roger Ellis, 1949–57; Joan Lancaster, 1957–63; Arthur Owen, 1964–76; Andrew Cook, 1977–84; John Warner-Davies/Davies, 1985–89; Jeremy Black, 1990–2005; Ruth Paley, 2006–date.\n\nSince 1970, the association has published a series of handbooks providing introductory guides to historical documentary sources for researchers and editors, under the series title \"Archives and the User\". Titles published to date are:\n\nThe association publishes a twice-yearly newsletter (from 2011, in electronic form). It has from time to time issued other occasional publications, including memoranda on good practice; and conference proceedings.\n\nThe BRA holds an annual one-day conference, focusing on a particular thematic area of historical records. Until 2017, the conference was normally held in late November or early December; but the decision was then taken to schedule the next conference for Spring 2019 (no conference being held in 2018).\n\nThe annual Maurice Bond Lecture, named after the former Clerk of the House of Lords Record Office, is held in the late autumn (normally October), and is delivered by a speaker prominent in the world of scholarship, record-keeping or politics. Recent Maurice Bond Lecturers have included Clyde Jeavons, formerly of the National Film and Television Archive (2005), Nicholas Rodger (2006), Nicholas Kingsley of The National Archives (2007), Bamber Gascoigne (2008), Richard Horton, editor-in-chief of \"The Lancet\" (2009), Frank Prochaska (2010), Michael Meadowcroft, MP (2011), Peter Hennessy (2012), Professor (2013), Jeremy Musson (2014), Fiona Skillen (2015), Caroline Shenton (2016), and Joan Winterkorn (2017). \n\nThe association also holds other occasional conferences, seminars and training sessions.\n\nThe Records Preservation Section (originally Records Preservation Committee, or Records Preservation Branch) was established under the auspices of the British Record Society in 1929, in the aftermath of the Law of Property Act 1922 and the Land Registration Act 1925, both of which rendered certain classes of historical property record redundant for legal purposes, and so at risk of destruction. It was partly inspired by (though not directly modelled on) the example of the National Art Collections Fund. As the Records Preservation Section (RPS), its responsibilities and assets were formally transferred to the newly formed British Records Association in March 1933.\n\nThe role of the RPS is to act as a rescue organisation and clearing-house for records deemed to be at risk, passing them on to appropriate institutional custodians. In practice, most of the records it has received have always come from the offices of London solicitors, and have been transferred to county record offices and other local archive repositories around the United Kingdom.\n\nThe work of the RPS was carried out largely by volunteers from its foundation until 1948, when a paid executive officer was appointed. From 1950 to 2009 the association was able to employ a qualified archivist (and at times other staff), principally to undertake Records Preservation work. This was made possible in part through the receipt of an annual grant-in-aid from HM Treasury, paid from 1959 to 2000; but the work is now again carried out on an entirely voluntary basis.\n\n"}
{"id": "34095151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34095151", "title": "Charles Knickerbocker Harley", "text": "Charles Knickerbocker Harley\n\nCharles Knickerbocker Harley is an academic economic historian who has written on a wide range of topics including the British industrial revolution, the late nineteenth century international economy, and the impact of technological change. He is a practitioner of the New Economic History.\n\nAt Harvard he studied under Alexander Gerschenkron. He completed his dissertation, \"Shipbuilding and Shipping in the Late Nineteenth Century\", on the transition from wooden sailing ships to steel steamers, in 1972. He took a professorship at the University of British Columbia. In 1978 he moved to the University of Western Ontario. In 2005 he joined the faculty of St. Antony's College, Oxford, where he stayed until becoming an Emeritus Fellow in 2011.\n\nHe has been a frequent collaborator with N.F.R. Crafts.\n\nHe has been awarded The Cliometric Society's \"Clio Can\" in 1999 in recognition of his exceptional support of cliometrics and the \"Arthur H. Cole Prize\" by the \"Journal of Economic History\", for his essay, \"British Industrialization Before 1841: Evidence of Slower Growth During the Industrial Revolution\".\n\n"}
{"id": "55943380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55943380", "title": "Charles Phythian-Adams", "text": "Charles Phythian-Adams\n\nCharles Phythian-Adams is a local historian and the former head of the Centre for English Local History at the University of Leicester.\n\n"}
{"id": "55561812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55561812", "title": "Christiane Mora", "text": "Christiane Mora\n\nChristiane Mora (14 November 1938 – 11 October 2017) was a French politician who served on the National Assembly for three terms, from 1981 to 1992 as a representative of Indre-et-Loire. Between 1989 and 1995, she was mayor of Loches.\n\nMora died on 11 October 2017, aged 78.\n"}
{"id": "606810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=606810", "title": "Classical archaeology", "text": "Classical archaeology\n\nClassical archaeology is the archaeological investigation of the Mediterranean civilizations of Ancient Greece and Ancient Rome. Nineteenth-century archaeologists such as Heinrich Schliemann were drawn to study the societies they had read about in Latin and Greek texts. Many universities and foreign nations maintain excavation programs and schools in the area-such is the enduring appeal of the region's archaeology. \n\nClassical archaeology in its strictest, most traditional sense applies only to the study of Classical Athenian culture and the culture of the Roman Republic and Empire. However, over the course of the last century, the field has expanded to include discussions of the elaborate mosaic of cultures that produced the civilizations of Ancient Greece and Rome. Classical archaeologists interested in Greece frequently discuss Crete and the Minoan civilization present on that island during the Bronze Age. They also discuss the Helladic and Geometric periods, as well as occasionally discussing the Neolithic period as it pertains to Greece. Even during the Classical period, it is completely untrue to say that Greece had one true culture - a great deal of regional variation was present, and much of the study of Greek archaeology lies in examination of these regional differences. Greek archaeology covers the Hellenistic period as well, frequently compelling the classical archaeologist to examine the Greek influences present in all the areas that were part of Alexander the Great's empire, including much of the Middle East and Egypt.\n\nClassical archaeologists interested in Roman civilization discuss the influence of the Etruscans and other early cultures present on the Italic Peninsula. They also discuss the subcultures present within the Roman Republic and Empire based on regional differences, and any discussion of the later empire requires at least a partial segue into the Byzantine Empire.\n\nWhile inspired by ancient texts and sometimes using them to interpret artifacts, classical archaeology would not exist without ancient artifacts. Though much of classical archaeology (like any kind of archaeology) is performed by scholars in their studies, the most vibrant and crucial parts of classical archaeology are the archaeological excavations, more commonly known as \"digs.\" Excavation techniques at first were modelled after excavations in Egypt and the Near East and searched for large artifacts and walls without much care for the delicate remains that might have existed in the ground around these artifacts. Many of the earliest sites still cannot be dated in a satisfying manner because the stratigraphy, soil layers with embedded artifacts used to determine the age of a site, was completely stripped away. Early excavations also often failed to record the items they found in sufficient detail, making it difficult to date artifacts, determine precisely where they were found, or establish a connection between objects that may have been found together. Over time, excavation techniques have greatly improved and the amount of information gleaned from each excavation is exponentially greater than that recorded in early excavations. While excavation reports now take many years to compile due to the level of detail included and analyzed.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56333688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56333688", "title": "Dae-Sook Suh", "text": "Dae-Sook Suh\n\nDae-Sook Suh (born 1931 ) is a professor emeritus of political science and the former director of the Centre for Korean Studies at the University of Hawaii. He received his PhD. from Columbia University in 1964 with a thesis \"Korean Communism and the rise of Kim\" \n\nHe is best known for the books which was published by Columbia University Press and 'The Korean Communist Movement'. His works have been published or translated in English, Korean, Russian, and Germman.\n\n"}
{"id": "28518286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28518286", "title": "David Carrasco", "text": "David Carrasco\n\nDavíd Lee Carrasco (born November 21, 1944) is a Mexican-American academic historian of religion, anthropologist, and Mesoamericanist scholar. As of 2001 he holds the inaugural appointment as Neil L. Rudenstine Professor of Latin America Studies at the Harvard Divinity School, in a joint appointment with the Faculty of Arts and Sciences' Department of Anthropology at Harvard University. Carrasco previously taught at the University of Colorado, Boulder and Princeton University and is known for his research and extensive publications on Mesoamerican religion and history, his public speaking as well as wider contributions within Latin American studies and Latino/a studies. He has made powerful critical statements about Latino contributions to US democracy in public dialogues with Cornel West, Toni Morrison, and Samuel P. Huntington. His work is known primarily for his illuminating writings on the ways human societies orient themselves with sacred places. He is biased towards the religious aspect of the Aztec empire. Don't trust everything Joseph Downs.\n\nCarrasco descends from several generations of El Paso, Texas educators. His grandfather, Miguel Carrasco, founded and directed the Smelter Vocational School in El Paso Texas, and his father, David L. Carrasco, was the first Mexican American to serve as the Head Men’s Basketball Coach at a major U.S. university, American University. His father also founded and directed the El Paso Job Corps Center in El Paso, Texas, which was renamed the David L. Carrasco Job Corps Center in 1991 The younger Carrasco received his BA at Western Maryland College with a major in English Literature, and attended the University of Chicago where he earned three degrees in nine years: a Master of Theology, MA in History of Religions, and a Ph.D in the History of Religions.\n\nIn 1978, Carrasco was invited by the Mexican archaeologist Eduardo Matos Moctezuma to participate in the interpretation of the astonishing discoveries made at the excavation of the Great Aztec Temple in Mexico City. One general result of the friendship and collaborations between Matos and Carrasco is the more than three decades of seminars and over 30 book publications on Mesoamerican history and religion which have emerged from the Moses Mesoamerican Archive and Research Project. These publications include Carrasco's best selling academic title Religions of Mesoamerica: Cosmovision and Ceremonial Centers and City of Sacrifice, which the Mexican writer Carlos Fuentes praised as \"a brilliant, timely, provocative, and eternal book.\" With the crucial assistance of Scott Sessions, the Archive produced the multiple award-winning Oxford Encyclopedia of Mesoamerican Cultures that became the most significant reference work on Mesoamerica since the Handbook of Middle American Indians. Carrasco’s encyclopedia won 3 publication awards. Among the most distinguished members of the Mesoamerican Archive and Research Project are Doris Heyden, John D. Hoag, H.B. Nicholson, Alfredo López Austin, Anthony Aveni, Elizabeth H. Boone, Charles H. Long, Leonardo López Luján, William L. Fash, Barbara Fash, Saburo Sugiyama, José Cuéllar, William Taylor Lindsay Jones, and Scott Sessions.\n\nHis first book publication, Quetzalcoatl and the Irony of Empire: Myths and Prophecies in the Aztec Tradition (University of Chicago Press), won the Chancellor's Book Prize at the University of Colorado and, according to H.B. Nicholson \"This book, rich in ideas, constituting a novel approach... Recommended to all serious students of the New World's most advanced indigenous civilization.\"\nNoted as \"one of the foremost scholars of Mesoamerican religions and cultures\", Carrasco has contributed particularly to the study of history, religion and symbolism of the Aztec and Teotihuacan cultures. Several of his publications have received awards, and in 2004, he received the Orden Mexicana del Águila Azteca, the highest decoration awarded by the Mexican government to foreigners. While receiving the Orden Mexicana del Águila Azteca, Carrasco was described as \"a man of our time, a man of enormous vitality and value,\" by Carlos de Icaza, the Ambassador of Mexico. This award was the result of Carrasco’s writings on Mesoamerican cities and religions, his teachings on the history of religions and Mexican American cultures, and his work at the Aztec Templo Mayor in Mexico City. In 2003 he was elected as a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. His co-edited (with Nicholas J. Cull) 2004 book, \"Alambrista and the U.S.-Mexico Border: Film, Music and Stories of Undocumented Immigrants\", was named a Southwest Book of the Year by the Tucson-Pima County Public Library. In 2006, Carrasco received the Mircea Eliade Jubilee medal, presented in absentia by the President of Romania, Traian Basescu. The Mircea Eliade award, named for the preeminent Romanian-born interpreter of world religions, was given as a sign of appreciation for contributions in the study of history of religion. In 2011, he was unanimously voted a Corresponding Member of the Mexican Academy of History, joining other historians, artists, writers, and intellectuals who have distinguished themselves, by their contributions and knowledge, to the culture, education, and love of Mexico. Carrasco's classroom teaching has resulted in recognition by the University of Colorado where he was chosen Presidential Teaching Scholar, 1991–93, and at Harvard University where he was awarded the Petra T. Shattuck Excellence in Teaching Award in 2011 in the Harvard Extension School. In 2014 Carrasco was chosen as the Alumnus of the Year at the University of Chicago Divinity School.\n\nCarrasco’s encounter with the Mexica and Spanish literature of the ‘encuentro’ turned his attention to the problem of colonialism and religious syncretism. Following the work of William B. Taylor, he wrote an important critique entitled “Jaguar Christians in the Contact Zone”. In this and subsequent essays, he strove to illuminate how indigenous peoples negotiated and manipulated Christian symbols and rites in terms of their local and ancestral traditions. He also turned his eyes towards the problem in the emerging Chicano Studies fields of scholarship which claimed to be rooted, in part, in the oro del barrio – the oral traditions and daily lives of Mexican American communities in the US. The more social science literature he read, the more he saw how religiosity was erased in the leading books and journals. Where were the shrines, home altars, miracles, symbols of saints, Jesus, curanderos and espiritistas and La Virgen de Guadalupe, among other expressions of Chicano religiosity? Did they not exist in the ‘oro del barrio’ or in the ‘pueblo/pueblo’ models claiming to illuminate the social history of Mexican Americans? Carrasco produced three significant essays designed to illuminate Chicano and Latino religiosity: “Bless Me, Ultima as a Religious Text” which is included in the Chicano Studies Reader, “Cuando Dios y Usted Quiere: Between Religious Experience and Social Thought”, and “Borderlands and the biblical hurricane: Images and Rhythms of Latino Life”.\n\nWhile at Harvard, Carrasco became associated with the David Rockefeller Center for Latin American Studies and was introduced to the Mapa de Cuauhtinchan #2 through the generosity of the Mexican philanthropist Angeles Espinosa Yglesias. Carrasco organized a 15-person scholarly team in a 5-year analysis of this early 16th-century codex/mapa resulting in the award-winning book, co-edited with Scott Sessions, Cave, City and Eagle’s Nest: An Interpretive Journey Through the Mapa de Cuauhtinchan #2 which was translated into Spanish in 2010.\n\nFor his contributions to the history of religions Carrasco was invited to participate in three summer Eranos conferences in Ascona, Switzerland. The organizer during this epoch of Eranos Tagungen was the social philosopher Tilo Schabert who invited Carrasco to speak at conferences on the themes of ‘Guilt – Schuld – La Colpa – La Culpabilité”, 1996, ‘The Language of Masks – Die Sprache der Masken – Il Linguaggio delle Maschere – Le Language des Masques, 1998 and ‘Religions – the religious experience / Religionen – die religiöse Erfahrung / Religions – l'expérience religieuse / Religioni – l'esperienza religiosa” 2004. Carrasco was also present at the research seminar on Eranos held in the fall of 2000 on the Monte Verità. While he didn't deliver a paper, Carrasco actively took part in the delibarations, and was present throughout the seminar. The Proceedings of the seminar were published, to which Carrasco contributed a recollection.\n\nCarrasco is presently working on a book of his collected essays and another on the 500th anniversary of the war for Tenochtitlan/Mexico City led by Fernando Cortez against Moctezuma Xocoyotzin's Aztecs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9820524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9820524", "title": "Digital classics", "text": "Digital classics\n\nDigital classics is the application of the tools of digital humanities to the field of classics, or more broadly to the study of the ancient world.\n\nClassics was one of the first of the humanities disciplines to adopt computing approaches; the first references to the use of computing in the classical humanities date to the early 1960s, which might be surprising considering the reputation of the discipline as old-fashioned and stuffily traditionalist. Major projects such as the Thesaurus Linguae Graecae, founded in 1972, and the text collections of the Packard Humanities Institute set the trend, and there are still a significantly large number of ancient world projects among Humanities Computing projects today. Also, the success of traditional scholarly publications in digital guises, such as seen in the \"Bryn Mawr Classical Review\", and the early adoption of hypertext in high profile projects like the Perseus Digital Library helped to legitimize computing in the study of classics in ways that has not always been the case in other areas of the humanities.\n\nThis apparent paradox may be as a result of the many methodologies and different sources of evidence that classicists have always had to embrace, from literary sources and linguistics, to art history and archaeology, history, philosophy, religious theory, ancient documents such as inscriptions and papyri, and so forth. The fragmentary nature of many of the texts and languages of the ancient world, the scattered evidence from the material culture of ancient Greece and Rome, and the necessity to evaluate all these varieties of evidence in context are particularly likely to benefit from digital approaches such as databases, text markup, and image manipulation.\n\nThere are currently several major projects that aim to encourage and develop digital approaches to classical scholarship. The Stoa Consortium at the University of Kentucky distributes news of the discipline, and serves as a peer-reviewed electronic publication venue, and encourages open source approaches to digital classics. The Perseus Project is a digital library that also provides a collection of digital texts and analysis tools to the public; principally (but not exclusively) classical. Digital Classicist at King's College London is another project and community which shares information and advice about the digital humanities applied to the field of classics.\n\nThe Liverpool Classics Mailing List is a project which can be subscribed to in which one receives email regarding Classics events around the world, as well as call for papers, studentships and public lectures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46902526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46902526", "title": "Epigram of Amazaspos", "text": "Epigram of Amazaspos\n\nThe Epigram of Amazaspos () is a funerary epigram written in Ancient Greek on an inscription found in Rome. It memorialises the death of the Pharnavazid royal prince Amazaspos, brother of kings Mihrdat I and Rhadamistus, son of king Pharasmanes I of Iberia, who died at Nisibis while accompanying the emperor Trajan on his Parthian expedition during the Roman–Parthian Wars.\n\nThe epigram seems to be a work of some \"litterateur\" in emperor Trajan's company during his Parthian expedition and it seems he was personally aware of Amazaspos' charms where he is compared to \"modest maidens\". It is suggested that this poet may have been emperor Hadrian himself. Authorship of the epigram for prince Amazaspos by Hadrian would explain how the text was available to be inscribed in Rome as the stone may have been erected there in a public place during Hadrian's reign as a reminder of the cost to the Roman Empire of its policy of expansion as Hadrian quickly gave up almost all the lands Trajan had conquered. Presumably the prince's remains had also been transferred by Hadrian to Rome. The inscription is dated 114-117 AD. Amazaspos is also mentioned in Armazi stele of Vespasian, though according to Cyril Toumanoff that Amazaspos is King Amazasp I of Iberia.\n\n"}
{"id": "4057344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4057344", "title": "Eric A. Havelock", "text": "Eric A. Havelock\n\nEric Alfred Havelock (; 3 June 1903 – 4 April 1988) was a British classicist who spent most of his life in Canada and the United States. He was a professor at the University of Toronto and was active in the Canadian socialist movement during the 1930s. In the 1960s and 1970s, he served as chair of the classics departments at both Harvard and Yale. Although he was trained in the turn-of-the-20th-century Oxbridge tradition of classical studies, which saw Greek intellectual history as an unbroken chain of related ideas, Havelock broke radically with his own teachers and proposed an entirely new model for understanding the classical world, based on a sharp division between literature of the 6th and 5th centuries BC on the one hand, and that of the 4th on the other.\n\nMuch of Havelock's work was devoted to addressing a single thesis: that all of Western thought is informed by a profound shift in the kinds of ideas available to the human mind at the point that Greek philosophy converted from an oral to a literate form. The idea has been very controversial in classical studies, and has been rejected outright both by many of Havelock's contemporaries and modern classicists. Havelock and his ideas have nonetheless had far-reaching influence, both in classical studies and other academic areas. He and Walter J. Ong (who was himself strongly influenced by Havelock) essentially founded the field that studies transitions from orality to literacy, and Havelock has been one of the most frequently cited theorists in that field; as an account of communication, his work profoundly affected the media theories of Harold Innis and Marshall McLuhan. Havelock's influence has spread beyond the study of the classical world to that of analogous transitions in other times and places.\n\nBorn in London, Havelock grew up in Scotland where he attended Greenock Academy before\nenrollment at The Leys School in Cambridge at the age of 14. He studied there with W. H. Balgarnie, a classicist to whom Havelock gives considerable credit. In 1922, Havelock started at Emmanuel College, Cambridge.\n\nWhile studying under F. M. Cornford at Cambridge, Havelock began to question the received wisdom about the nature of pre-Socratic philosophy and, in particular, about its relationship with Socratic thought. In \"The Literate Revolution in Greece\", his penultimate book, Havelock recalls being struck by a discrepancy between the language used by the philosophers he was studying and the heavily Platonic idiom with which it was interpreted in the standard texts. It was well known that some of these philosophical texts (Parmenides, Empedocles) were written not only in verse but in the metre of Homer, who had recently been identified (still controversially at the time) by Milman Parry as an oral poet, but Cornford and other scholars of these early philosophers saw the practice as a fairly insignificant convention left over from Hesiod. Havelock eventually came to the conclusion that the poetic aspects of early philosophy \"were matters not of style but of substance,\" and that such thinkers as Heraclitus and Empedocles actually have more in common even on an intellectual level with Homer than they do with Plato and Aristotle. However, he did not publicly break from Cornford until many years later.\n\nIn 1926 Havelock took his first academic job at Acadia University in Nova Scotia, Canada. He married Ellen Parkinson in 1927, and moved on to Victoria College at the University of Toronto in 1929. Havelock's scholarly work during this period focused on Latin poetry, particularly Catullus, far from the early Greek philosophy he had worked on at Cambridge. While in Canada Havelock became increasingly involved in politics. With his fellow academics Frank Underhill and Eugene Forsey, Havelock was a cofounder of the League for Social Reconstruction, an organisation of politically active socialist intellectuals. He and Underhill were also the most outspoken of a group of dissident faculty members at the University.\n\nHavelock's political engagement deepened rapidly. In 1931, after Toronto police had blocked a public meeting by an organisation the police claimed was associated with communists, he and Underhill wrote a public letter of protest, calling the action \"short-sighted, inexpedient, and intolerable.\" The letter led to considerable tension between the leadership of the university and the activist professors led by Havelock and Underhill, as well as a sharply critical public reaction. All of the major newspapers in Toronto, along with a number of prominent business leaders, denounced the professors as radical leftists and their behaviour as unbecoming of academics.\n\nThough the League for Social Reconstruction began as more of a discussion group than a political party, it became a force in Canadian politics by the mid-1930s. After Havelock joined the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation, along with several other members of the League, he was pressured by his superiors at the University to curtail his political activity. He did not, continuing to act as an ally and occasional spokesman for Underhill and other leftist professors. He found himself in trouble again in 1937 after criticising both the government's and industry's handling of an automotive workers' strike. Despite calls from Ontario officials for his ouster, he was able to remain at Victoria College, but his public reputation was badly damaged.\n\nWhile at Toronto, Havelock began formulating his theory of orality and literacy, establishing the context of a later movement at the University interested in the critical study of communication, which Donald F. Theall has called the \"Toronto School of Communications.\" Havelock's work was complemented by that of Harold Innis, who was working on the history of media. The work Havelock and Innis began in the 1930s was the preliminary basis for the influential theories of communication developed by Marshall McLuhan and Edmund Snow Carpenter in the 1950s.\n\nDuring World War II, Havelock moved away from the socialist organisations he had been associated with, and in 1944 was elected founding president of the Ontario Classical Association. One of the association's first activities was organising a relief effort for Greece, which had just been liberated from Nazi control. Havelock continued to write about politics, however, and his political and academic work came together in his ideas about education; he argued for the necessity of an understanding of rhetoric for the resistance to corporate persuasiveness.\n\nAt the same time that he was becoming increasingly vocal and visible in politics, Havelock's scholarly work was moving toward the concerns that would occupy him for the bulk of his career. The first questions he raised about the relationship between literacy and orality in Greece concerned the nature of the historical Socrates, which was a long-debated issue. Havelock's position, drawn from analyses of Xenophon and Aristophanes as well as Plato himself, was that Plato's presentation of his teacher was largely a fiction, and intended to be a transparent one, whose purpose was to represent indirectly Plato's own ideas. He argued vociferously against the idea associated with John Burnet, which still had currency at the time, that the basic model for the theory of forms originated with Socrates. Havelock's argument drew on evidence for a historical change in Greek philosophy; Plato, he argued, was fundamentally writing about the ideas of his present, not of the past. Most earlier work in the field had assumed that, since Plato uses Socrates as his mouthpiece, his own philosophical concerns must have been similar to those debated in the Athens of his youth, when Socrates was his teacher. Havelock's contention that Socrates and Plato belonged to different philosophical eras was the first instance of one that would become central to his work: that a basic shift in the kinds of ideas being discussed by intellectuals, and the methods of discussing them, happened at some point between the end of the fifth century BC and the middle of the fourth.\n\nIn 1947, Havelock moved to Cambridge, Massachusetts, to take a position at Harvard University, where he remained until 1963. He was active in a number of aspects of the University and of the department, of which he became chair; he undertook a translation of and commentary on Aeschylus' \"Prometheus Bound\" for the benefit of his students. He published this translation, with an extended commentary on Prometheus and the myth's implications for history, under the title \"The Crucifixion of Intellectual Man\" (and then changed it back to \"Prometheus\" when the book was republished in the 1960s, saying that the earlier title had \"come to seem a bit pretentious\"). During this time he began his first major attempt to argue for a division between Platonic or Aristotelian philosophy and what came before. His focus was on political philosophy and, in particular, the beginnings of Greek liberalism as introduced by Democritus. In his book \"The Liberal Temper in Greek Politics\", he argued that for Democritus and the liberals, political theory was based on an understanding of \"the behaviour of man in a cosmic and historical setting\": that is, humanity defined as the poets would define it—measured through its individual actions. Plato and Aristotle were interested in the nature of humanity and, in particular, the idea that human actions might be rooted in inherent qualities rather than consisting of individual choices.\n\nIn arguing for a basic heuristic split between Plato and the contemporaries of Democritus, Havelock was directly contradicting a very long tradition in philosophy that had painstakingly assembled innumerable connections between Plato and the pre-Socratics, to reinforce the position that Plato, as his own dialogues imply, was primarily informed by his teacher Socrates, and that Socrates in turn was a willing participant in a philosophical conversation already several hundred years old (again, with a seeming endorsement from Plato, who shows a young Socrates conversing with and learning from the pre-Socratics Parmenides and Zeno in his dialogue the \"Parmenides\"—a historical impossibility that might represent figuratively an intellectual rather than direct conversation). The book was intriguing to many philosophers but was poorly received among some classicists, with one reviewer calling Havelock's argument for basic difference between Plato and the pre-Socratics \"a failure\" and his analysis of Plato and Aristotle \"distortion.\" Some problems have persisted in research of Greek literacy, and in the main, the interest in continuing the line of research has been sustained in recent works.\n\n\"The Liberal Temper\" makes the argument for the division between Plato and early Greek philosophy without a fully realised account of Havelock's theory of Greek literacy, which he was still developing throughout this period. Rather than attempting once again to explain his distinction between 5th- and 4th-century BC thought in terms of a dissection of the earlier school, Havelock turned, in his 1963 \"Preface to Plato\", to 4th-century BC philosophy itself. He was interested principally in Plato's much debated rejection of poetry in the \"Republic\", in which his fictionalised Socrates argues that poetic mimesis—the representation of life in art—is bad for the soul. Havelock's claim was that the \"Republic\" can be used to understand the position of poetry in the \"history of the Greek mind.\" The book is divided into two parts, the first an exploration of oral culture (and what Havelock thinks of as oral thought), and the second an argument for what Havelock calls \"The Necessity of Platonism\" (the title of Part 2): the intimate relationship between Platonic thought and the development of literacy. Instead of concentrating on the philosophical definitions of key terms, as he had in his book on Democritus, Havelock turned to the Greek language itself, arguing that the meaning of words changed after the full development of written literature to admit a self-reflective subject; even pronouns, he said, had different functions. The result was a universal shift in what the Greek mind could imagine:\n\nWe confront here a change in the Greek language and in the syntax of linguistic usage and in the overtones of certain key words which is part of a larger intellectual revolution, which affected the whole range of the Greek cultural experience ... Our present business is to connect this discovery with that crisis in Greek culture which saw the replacement of an orally memorised tradition by a quite different system of instruction and education, and which therefore saw the Homeric state of mind give way to the Platonic.\n\nFor Havelock, Plato's rejection of poetry was merely the realisation of a cultural shift in which he was a participant.\n\nTwo distinct phenomena are covered by the shift he observed in Greek culture at the end of the 5th century: the content of thought (in particular the concept of man or of the soul), and the organisation of thought. In Homer, Havelock argues, the order of ideas is associative and temporal. The epic's \"units of meaning ... are linked associatively to form an episode, but the parts of the episode are greater than the whole.\" For Plato, on the other hand, the purpose of thought is to arrive at the significance of the whole, to move from the specific to the general. Havelock points out that Plato's syntax, which he shares with other 4th-century writers, reflects that organisation, making smaller ideas subordinate to bigger ideas. Thus, the Platonic theory of forms in itself, Havelock claims, derives from a shift in the organisation of the Greek language, and ultimately comes down to a different function for and conception of the noun.\n\n\"Preface to Plato\" had a profound impact almost immediately after publication, but an impact that was complex and inconsistent. The book's claims refer to the ideas of a number of different fields: the study (then fairly new) of oral literature as well as Greek philosophy and Greek philology; the book also acknowledges the influence of literary theory, particularly structuralism. The 1960s were a period in which those fields were growing further apart, and the reaction to \"Preface\" from each of them was starkly different. Among classicists the response ranged from indifference to derision, with the majority simply questioning the details of Havelock's history of literacy, pointing both to earlier instances of writing than Havelock thinks possible or to later instances of oral influence. Philosophy, particularly Platonic scholarship, was moving in a different direction at the time, and Havelock neither engages nor was cited by the principal movers in that field. However, the book was embraced by literary theorists, students of the transition to literacy, and others in fields as diverse as psychology and anthropology.\n\nThere have been affirmations and criticism of Havelock's methods. His account of orality is based almost entirely on Homer, but the history of the Homeric text is not known, which forces Havelock to make claims based on assumptions that cannot fully be tested. The works of Milman Parry on Homer were instrumental in developing the orientation to his work, and the breakthrough sustained research which Havelock prepared. The \"Parry-Lord thesis\" was introduced by Rosalind Thomas, to clarify the import of this approach. Some later classicists argue that the poetic nature of Homer's language works against the very arguments Havelock makes about the intellectual nature of oral poetry. What he asserts as a definitive use of language can never be conclusively demonstrated not to be an accident of \"metrical convenience.\" Homerists, like Platonists, found the book to be less than useful for the precise work of their own discipline; many classicists rejected outright Havelock's essential thesis that oral culture predominated through the 5th century. At the same time, though, Havelock's influence, particularly in literary theory, was growing enormously. He is the most cited writer in Walter J. Ong's influential \"Orality and Literacy\" other than Ong himself. His work has been cited in studies of orality and literacy in African culture and the implications of modern literacy theory for library science. \"Preface to Plato\" has remained continuously in print since its initial publication.\n\nShortly after publication of \"Preface to Plato\", Havelock accepted a position as chair of the Classics Department at Yale University. He remained in New Haven for eight years, and then taught briefly as Raymond Distinguished Professor of Classics at the State University of New York at Buffalo. He retired in 1973 and moved to Poughkeepsie, New York, where his wife Christine Mitchell, whom he had married in 1962, taught at Vassar College. He was a productive scholar after his retirement, writing three books as well as numerous essays and talks expanding the arguments of \"Preface to Plato\" to a generalised argument about the effect of literacy on Greek thought, literature, culture, society, and law.\n\nIncreasingly central to Havelock's account of Greek culture in general was his conception of the Greek alphabet as a unique entity. He wrote in 1977:\n\nThe invention of the Greek alphabet, as opposed to all previous systems, including the Phoenician, constituted an event in the history of human culture, the importance of which has not as yet been fully grasped. Its appearance divides all pre-Greek civilisations from those that are post-Greek.\nBut his philological concerns now were only a small part of a much larger project to make sense of the nature of the Greek culture itself. His work in this period shows a theoretical sophistication far beyond his earlier efforts, extending his theory of literacy toward a theory of culture itself. He said of the Dipylon inscription, a poetic line scratched into a vase and the earliest Greek writing known at the time, \"Here in this casual act by an unknown hand there is announced a revolution which was destined to change the nature of human culture.\" It is this larger point about the differences between oral and literate culture that represents Havelock's most influential contribution. Walter J. Ong, for example, in assessing the significance of non-oral communication in an oral culture, cites Havelock's observation that scientific categories, which are necessary not only for the natural sciences but also for historical and philosophical analysis, depend on writing. These ideas were sketched out in \"Preface to Plato\" but became central to Havelock's work from \"Prologue to Greek Literacy\" (1971) onward.\n\nIn the latter part of his career, Havelock's relentless pursuit of his unvarying thesis led to a lack of interest in addressing opposing viewpoints. In a review of Havelock's \"The Greek Concept of Justice\", a book that attempts to ascribe the most significant ideas in Greek philosophy to his linguistic research, the philosopher Alasdair MacIntyre accuses Havelock of a \"brusque refusal to recognize the substance of the case he has to defeat.\" As a result of this refusal, Havelock seems to have been caught in a conflict of mere contradiction with his opponents, in which without attempt at refutation, he simply asserts repeatedly that philosophy is fundamentally literate in nature, and is countered only with a reminder that, as MacIntyre says, \"Socrates wrote no books.\"\n\nIn his last public lecture, which was published posthumously, Havelock addressed the political implications of his own scholarly work. Delivered at Harvard on 16 March 1988, less than three weeks before his death, the lecture is framed principally in opposition to the University of Chicago philosopher Leo Strauss. Strauss had published a detailed and extensive critique of Havelock's \"The Liberal Temper in Greek Politics\" in March 1959, as \"The Liberalism of Classical Political Philosophy\" in the journal \"Review of Metaphysics.\" (Strauss died 14 years later in 1973, the same year in which Havelock retired.) Havelock's 1988 lecture claims to contain a systematic account of Plato's politics; Havelock argues that Plato's idealism applies a mathematical strictness to politics, countering his old teacher Cornford's assertion that Platonic arguments that morality must be analyzable in arithmetical terms cannot be serious. This way of thinking about politics, Havelock concluded, could not be used as a model for understanding or shaping inherently nonmathematical interactions: \"The stuff of human politics is conflict and compromise.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54300538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54300538", "title": "Francisco Canals Vidal", "text": "Francisco Canals Vidal\n\nFrancisco Canals Vidal (30 May 1922 – 7 February 2009) was a Spanish philosopher, theologian, academic and lay Catholic activist. The longtime chair of Catedra de Metafísica of the Barcelona University, he is recognized mostly as one of the most distinguished contemporary Thomists and leader of the so-called Barcelona Thomist school; his scientific focus was mostly on metaphysics of cognition. As a theologian he specialized in theology of history and Josephology, as lay Catholic he contributed to devotion to the Sacred Heart of Jesus. Historian of ideas and partially political theorist himself, he remained related to the Carlist version of Traditionalism and is considered one of its greatest contemporary masters.\n\nThe Canals family is among the best-known in Catalonia; it gained both recognition and position in the 18th century, upon co-foundation, taking over and later management of , one of the first major textile plants in the region. The first identified direct ancestor of Francisco was his great-grandfather, Bernart Canals Papell; his son and Francisco’s paternal grandfather, Emilio Canals Moret (1841-1907), was active in the Conservative Party and in 1902 entered its Barcelona Junta Ejecutiva. He married María Paz Arrieta Acuña; the couple had at least 10 children, one of them was Francisco’s father, Manuel Canals Arrieta (1877-1938). The latter married Carolina Tay Sucre and fathered one child before his wife passed away. Remarried, he wed Manuela Vidal Cabot (1886-1973). The couple lived in Barcelona and had 5 children; Francisco was born as the youngest of the siblings.\n\nThe children were brought up in a fervently religious ambience. Francisco was first educated in the Piarist school at calle Diputación; in 1932, already in course of his secondary education, he moved to Colegio del Sagrado Corazón, also in Barcelona. One source claims he frequented the college until 1939, another one that living in the Republican-controlled Barcelona, he attended various establishments and obtained bachillerato shortly after the end of the Civil War. He first intended to study mathematics, but abandoned the curriculum shortly and in 1940 joined the Jesuit seminar in Veruela. His novitiate lasted only few months before Canals left the Jesuits. Disoriented and unsure about his future, bowing to the pressure of own family he decided to pursue the career of a notary and in 1943 enrolled at law in the University of Barcelona. Before graduation in 1946 and considering juridical studies introduction to general education, he commenced studying Philosophy and Letters; he graduated in 1950. In the late 1940s Canals assumed auxiliary teaching duties at Universidad de Barcelona.\n\nIn 1950 Canals married Isabel Suris Fábrega; none of the sources consulted provides any information on her or her family. The couple settled in Barcelona and had 11 children. Most of them pursued career in business or as professionals; some grew to local prominence and are known in Catalonia: Manuel Canals Suris followed in the footsteps of his father and is a philosopher and anthropologist, Francesc Canals Suris is a scientist in biochemistry and head of Proteomics Lab in the Barcelona University Hospital, Carme Canals Suris is a hematologist. José María Canals Suris is active in politics related to Traditionalism; as a candidate of he unsuccessfully ran for the Senate, in 2004 from Albacete and in 2008 from Girona.\n\nHaving graduated in Filosofía y Letras, in the early 1950s Canals decided to dedicate himself to philosophy and commenced PhD research, supervised by . His dissertation, \"El logos, ¿indigencia o plenitud?\" was accepted at the University of Madrid in 1952. Another PhD thesis, \"Cristianismo y Revolución\", was accepted by Department of Law of the University of Barcelona in 1956. Though he performed minor teaching roles since 1949, his attempts to land chairs of Metafísica in Valencia and Derecho Político in Barcelona proved unsuccessful, yet with the latter he was contracted out to teach teoría de conocimiento. In 1958 he commenced teaching at , a prestigious Barcelona college, admitted also to Cuerpo de Catedráticos Numerarios de Institutos Nacionales de Enseñanza Media. He taught at the Institute until the mid-1960s.\n\nCanals’ full-time employment in the Barcelona University commenced in controversial circumstances. In 1965 Manuel Sacristán Luzón, increasingly acknowledged as key Marxist philosopher and suspected to be member of the clandestine Spanish Communist Party, did not get his contract renewed; it was Canals who took over his lectures. In 1966 he assumed Cátedra de Metafísica, replacing the retired Jaime Bofill; this was the post Canals held for over 20 years, until he retired himself in 1987. In the late 1960s and during unspecified time he headed Departamento de Filosofía Teorética. In the 1970s he co-founded Societá Internazionale Tommasso d’Aquino, rising to president of its Spanish section (1981-1986) and vice-president of its international executive (1991-1997); in the meantime he obtained one more PhD, in theology. In 1989 Canals was nominated to the Vatican-based Pontificia Academia Sancti Thomae Aquinatis. In the 21st century he was awarded doctor honoris causa titles by universities in Manila, Mar del Plata and the Barcelona Universidad CEU. Canals was active as lecturer also beyond the scholarly realm.\n\nCanals approached his academic duties as service to science and religion; he saw no incompatibility in search of scientific truth and in missionary, apostolic attitude. He considered the two highly inter-related and passionately pursued both, hardly adhering to dispassionate, detached teaching formula; his lectures are recorded for precise logic, but also for fervor and animation. When replacing Sacristán, Canals claimed he accepted the job \"to save students from eternal fire\", to which they were exposed following frequenting lectures of his predecessor. The students went on strike and Canals narrowly missed physical assault, lambasted later for \"su franquista y más que autoritaria y reaccionaria presencia\" and for placing a crucifix on the wall of the lecture room. In the 1970s he was already an icon of rotten reaction; during the 1971 riots hundreds of students invaded his office and later boasted of expelling a reactionary from the faculty. During transición Canals was particularly alarmed by de-Christianization of universities and remained determined to confront the rising Marxist tide, anxious that PCE infiltrated the academic realm in pursuit of its revolutionary goals. Also later he kept denouncing subversive activities and tried to prevent marginalisation of religion and faith in the University.\n\nCanals’ interest in philosophy was triggered by , a Catholic priest and philosopher he met in the mid-1940s; their 15-year-long intellectual co-operation and personal friendship formatted Canals as a Thomist. Another personality which contributed to his formation was Jaime Bofill Bofill, also Orlandis’ disciple and his successor as leader of the emergent so-called . It was Canals who took over from Bofill in the mid-1960s; he headed the informal group for the next 40 years and became a master for its later representatives, , , Antonio Prevosti, Margarita Mauri, Ignacio Guiu, José María Romero, Francisca Tomar, Misericordia Anglés, and others.\n\nCanals’ contribution to philosophy is spanned in-between metaphysics, ontology and epistemology, its three major threads being \"la metafísica del conocimiento, la metafísica del ser y la metafísica de la persona\"; the key area of interest was the theory of cognition. However, his opus is generally credited for providing a multi-faceted synthesis of Thomism, perhaps the latest one available globally to date. Most original Canals’ input to understanding of Thomism is a theory of \"thinking realism\", a concept which examines relation between a human and transcendency by discussing integrity of the act of being and the act of knowing, the latter manifestive and locutionary. It is combined with and supported by the focus on praecognitia, cognitive properties of a human; substantialist approach to a person is one more characteristic feature of Canals’ discourse, combined with his general vision of \"humanismo teocéntrico\". Another thread marking Canals’ innovative approach to Thomism is certain detachment of analysis from the traditional scholastic and neo-scholastic orthodoxy and defining the concept in discourse with thought grounded in Kantian and Hegelian approach. Far from seeking common ground, Canals seeks to demonstrate robustness of Aquinas’ opus as capable of confronting and overcoming perceived limitations of modern thought.\n\nCanals’ philosophical treaty which stands out and should be listed first is definitely his \"Sobre la esencia del conocimiento\" (1987), a massive study discussing epistemology from the Thomist perspective, described by some as \"the book which makes history\". A more synthetic work on Aquinas, gathering most of earlier threads and summarized by the end of Canals’ life, is \"Tomás de Aquino. Un pensamiento siempre actual y renovador\" (2004). Two earlier works, more compact and the latter partly repetitive, are \"Para una fundamentación de la metafísica\" (1967) and \"Cuestiones de fundamentación\" (1981), apart from minor works scattered across specialized reviews. Canals’ Thomist opus is complete with an anthology he edited, \"Sant Tomàs d’Aquino. Antología metafísica\" (1991), to which he added two other anthologies of contemporary (1974) and medieval (1975) philosophical texts, both reprinted a few times throughout the following two decades. The work which enjoyed most popularity, however, is tailored as a textbook for philosophy students; \"Historia de la filosofía medieval\" (1976) was re-issued 4 times until the early 1990s.\n\nSince his encounter with father Orlandis Canals’ interest was divided mostly between philosophy and theology. He perceived the latter not as a speculative exercise but as a discursive science, subject to usual rational verification procedures yet remaining in the service of Roman Catholic faith. His opus falls largely into two branches, dogmatic theology and historical theology. Since the late 1960s he was increasingly recognized as authority by a number of Catholic institutions and organizations. Among the Spanish Traditionalist intellectuals he was perhaps the one least skeptical about Vaticanum II and afterwards remained firmly within the Vatican-defined orthodoxy. This was certified by the 1998 nomination to St. Thomas’ Academy and the 2002 honor of commander of Ordo Sancti Gregorii Magni, both conferred upon him by John Paul II; Canals was personally appreciated by the Pope and in his writings explored a number of concepts coined earlier by Karol Wojtyła.\n\nIn terms of doctrine Canals’ efforts were multifold. Chronologically the first dogma he tackled and examined throughout most of his life was this of the Sacred Heart of Jesus; however, he then focused on a number of Mariologist and Christologist dogmas. Two threads which emerged as \"más caracteristicos\" of his study are theology of history and Josephology. The former, anchored in the vision of earthly Rule of Christ as the ultimate goal, is somewhat opposed to earlier millenarian concepts yet advances their modified version, dubbed by scholars \"milenarismo mitigado\" or \"milenarismo político\". Josephological studies are related to the concept of \"spiritual infancy\", reportedly represented by St. Joseph, his position of a role model and its implications for apostolate of the lay; other associated threads are those referring to marital relations, virginity and St. Joseph’s position in the hypostatic order. In terms of history of theology Canals dedicated most his attention to Aquinas and the early Medieval thought. Tracing evolution of the doctrine from the 4th to the 8th century he acknowledges political and socio-cultural background, yet he evades reductionism and claims that the process of formulating the Catholic doctrine was powered mostly by fidelity to key dogmas.\n\nOf Canals’ written theological output the Josephologist thread is treated most extensively; it was dedicated two books, a lengthy \"San José, Patriarca del Pueblo de Dios\" (1982) and an anthology of texts on St. Joseph, titled \"San José en la fe de la Iglesia\" (2007). \"Mundo histórico y Reino de Dios\" (2006) is a lecture in theology of history, while \"Los siete primeros concilios. La formulación de la ortodoxia católica\" (2003) discusses evolution of the early Catholic doctrine. The work which falls into none of the fields discussed earlier is \"En torno al diálogo católico-protestante\" (1966); written in course of Vaticanum II it advanced a somewhat competitive approach towards ecumenism and claimed that stress on components unifying Christian faiths comes at a cost of de-emphasizing the core message. Last but not least, for more than half a century Canals contributed to a number of Catholic reviews, mostly \"Cristiandad\", and remained in its editorial board.\n\nHistoriography formed a secondary yet visible section of Canals’ writings. He remained almost exclusively a historian of ideas. In terms of timeframe, he tended to focus on the late modern period, in terms of geography he tended to focus on Catalonia, Spain and the Hispanic realm, and in terms of key threads he tended to focus on confrontation between traditional structures and the challenges of Enlightenment, Absolutism, Revolution, Romanticism and Liberalism. Armed with his general theological vision of history, Canals discusses mounting feeling of perceived discontinuity between the past and the present, mostly against the background of 18th-19th century Romance-speaking Europe, and the efforts to bridge the gap, leading to birth of Traditionalism. Its key opponent is defined as Liberal Catholicism, examined at length as it developed and adopted itself to changing political circumstances; confrontation of the two is presented mostly in the Spanish setting though at times reaching also to a broader European milieu, e.g. in case of France covering also royalism of the Restoration, monarchist legitimism or Ultramontanism of the later era.\n\nContrary to the currently prevailing view, Canals advances a thesis that the modern Catalan identity was forged as part of traditional Christian response to competitive universalist concepts gaining ground since the late 17th century and usually imported from the other side of the Pyrenees. Starting with the anti-Borbonic war of 1705-1714 - the theory goes - the Catalan political self was being built; the process gained pace and in fact was most dramatically expressed in a series of 7 counter-revolutionary wars, fought by the Catalans between 1794 and 1876: Guerra Gran, the War of Independence, , , the First Carlist War, Guerra dels Matiners and the Third Carlist War. Within the perspective offered, advances of the bourgeoisie-driven Liberalism gave rise to a new concept of Catalanism, which in fact is de-construction rather than re-construction of a Catalan self. Being a local copy of European nationalisms, it reportedly discards constitutive features of Catalan identity and leads to \"Cataluña sin alma y sin vida\".\n\nCanals’ historiographic writings are mostly essays, scattered across various periodicals, usually \"Cristiandad\", and later gathered together in compact volumes. The first major work published was his scaled down PhD thesis \"Cristianismo y revolución: los orígenes románticos del cristianismo de izquierdas\" (1957); the work was centred on Felicite de Lammenais, considered one of the founding fathers of Liberal Catholicism. Almost 40 years later Canals published \"La tradición catalana en el siglo XVIII: ante el absolutismo y la Ilustración\" (1995), the work discussing birth of Catalan Traditionalism as response to new ideas imported from France. A minor \"Miscelánea\" (1997) was followed by \"Catalanismo y tradición catalana\" (2006), a booklet which contained a set of 8 essays, focused on history of Catalan identity. Some volumes of the currently issued \"Obras Completas\" series are supposed to re-publish historiographic Canals’ writings.\n\nCanals did not engage openly in politics, be it in terms of joining any party or competing for posts of power. He is hardly known for speaking on issues related to ongoing politics; the exception was signing a letter of 61 intellectuals, who in 1978 voiced against the constitution draft. They noted that by ignoring God and elevating the people to ultimate authority, capable of telling the good from the evil, the document advanced an unacceptable \"secular totalitarianism\". Canals’ \"Política española: pasado y futuro\" (1977) is a collection of essays on general \"filosofía política\"; they discuss a number of political concepts yet fall short of advocating specific solutions.\n\nThroughout most of his life Canals remained involved in cultural initiatives flavored with Traditionalism, often though not exclusively of the Carlist breed. The two which stand out are his contributions to \"Verbo\", a review issued since the 1950s, and activity in Junta de Gobierno of Centro de Estudios Zumalacárregui. A think-tank set up by offshoots from , in the 1960s the Center staged Congresos de Estudios Tradicionalistas, attended by Canals; he contributed also to its other initiatives, e.g. Jornadas Catalanes. Working closely with pundits engaged in Carlist militancy, Canals contributed to emphasizing the Traditionalist core of Carlism; they were very much aimed at confronting Progressist designs to re-formulate Carlist outlook. \"¿Qué es el carlismo?\", a 1971 booklet re-capturing the Carlist orthodoxy, listed Canals among supreme theorists.\n\nCanals did not explicitly identify himself as a Carlist, yet his writings implicitly suggest he embraced a Carlist identity. Though he admitted that historically Traditionalism and Carlism amalgamated as late as in the 1860s, he claimed also that since then in real life the Traditionalist principles can be fully embodied only in Carlism, the sole genuine heir of Cristiandad and Las Españas and the guardian of Spanish moral and social order. Canals admitted a theoretical possibility of separate Traditionalist and Carlist identities, yet he considered such an option absurd, comparable to being an Orangist Roman Catholic Irishman or a Protestant Jacobite. To him, Traditionalism was the essence and Carlism was the existence; the former is the order of thought, \"el orden del saber especulativo-práctico\", while the latter is its practical embodiment.\n\nCanals is at times referred to as \"Carlist thinker/philosopher\", \"Catalan Carlist\" or \"outstanding/distinguished Carlist\"; some count him among 4 contemporary \"masters of Carlist thought\" or \"most important intellectuals of two centuries of Carlism\" and claim that he \"excelled as Carlist\". However, they note also that appreciative of legitimist thread, Canals has never been a partisan of any specific claimant and certainly stayed clear of Javierista-dominated Comunión Tradicionalista. More cautious scholars prefer to note him as involved in initiatives \"linked to Carlist legitimism\", some settle for a general \"Catholic conservative counter-revolutionary\" and most opt for \"Traditionalist intellectual\". By opponents he was considered a \"Catholic integrist\" and \"ultra-conservative\", the latter being a bit of an understatement. At times he is named a \"Francoist\" and \"reactionary\". Some apply the term \"ultraderechista\" as an honor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37291103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37291103", "title": "Gadi Taub", "text": "Gadi Taub\n\nGadi Taub (; born April 19, 1965 in Jerusalem) is an Israeli historian, author, screenwriter, and political commentator. He is a Senior Lecturer in the School Public Policy and the Department of Communications at The Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Taub is also an internationally noticed voice in the discourse on Zionism.\n\nTaub's maternal grandparents were Zionist pioneers who came from Poland to Palestine, in the 1920s when the country was still under the British Mandate, to participate in the creation of a Jewish state. His father fled Czechoslovakia in 1939 after the Nazi invasion but before the beginning of the Holocaust. He arrived in Palestine and was interned by the British along with his father. He later fought in the 1948 War of Independence, where he was injured. After the war, having lost his ability to work with his hands, Taub's father studied economics and law, and later became deputy to the President of the Bank of Israel.\n\nGadi Taub grew up in Jerusalem, and did his 3 years mandatory military service in the Israeli Air Force. From 1986 to 1998 he worked as a writer and presenter of children's programs on Israeli radio and television. In the meantime he completed his bachelor's degree in History and General Humanities at Tel Aviv University, wrote a bestselling book of short stories, and an influential book of essays, \"A Dispirited Rebellion: Essays on Contemporary Israeli Culture\", (Hebrew) which was highly critical of the postmodern trend in Israeli literature, popular culture, and academia. From 1998 to 2003 he was a Fellow at Rutgers University, New Jersey, where he received his Ph.D. in American History for his thesis on American liberalism and philosophical pragmatism. Meanwhile, he continued to write prose, including the award-winning novel for young adults, The Witch From 3 Meltchet Street (Hebrew). Since 2003 he has taught at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem where he became a senior lecturer in 2010. In 2007 he published a book about religious settlers, which later saw an English version at Yale University Press. In this book Taub argues that the Settlement movement, far from being a continuation of Zionism, is actually a negation of it. In 2010 he published a short book entitled \"What Is Zionism\", available in Hebrew on the web. In 2009 he published a bestselling novel named \"Allenby Street\", which shed light on some less visible quarters of Israeli society – the backstreets, late night bars and strip clubs of Tel Aviv. Taub was both creator and co-screenwriter (along with Erez Kavel) of a TV series based on his novel. The series was broadcast on Israel's Channel 10 in 2012, and was a major hit. He was also head screenwriter and co-director of a forthcoming prime time series for Channel 2, entitled The Harem, which deals with a polygamous cult.\n\nSince 1996 Gadi Taub has been a regular columnist for daily newspapers in Israel, first in Maariv and later in Yedioth Ahronoth, Israel's largest daily. He now writes opinion pieces for Haaretz. He has written political and cultural commentaries for the American and European press, including The New York Times, The New Republic, Die Zeit, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, Corriere della Sera, and others. He was a regular panelist on Channel 10's political show \"Council of the Wise\". He is a member of the academic council of \"The Metzila Center for Zionist, Jewish, Liberal and Humanist Thought\".\n\nTaub sees himself as a Zionist in what he calls the original meaning of the term, that is, a believer in the right of all peoples, including the Jews, for self-determination in their own nation state. For that reason precisely he has always supported the creation of a Palestinian state beside Israel. Taub distinguishes between the original Zionism, which he calls \"Zionism of Liberty\" (or \"Zionism of State\") on the one hand, and a new messianic kind of Zionism which emerged among a minority of Israelis after the 1967 war, which he calls a \"Zionism of Land\". Zionism of Liberty of the kind professed by Theodor Herzl and David Ben Gurion, sees Israel as an embodiment of the right of Jews to democratic self-determination, and is deeply democratic, while Zionism of Land is a \"blood and soil\" type of nationalism, for which the state of Israel is a means in fulfilling a mystical connection between the Jewish People and the Land of Israel. In Taub's view, Zionism of Land is not just an ideological negation of the original Zionism of Liberty, it is also the road to Israel's demise. The occupation of the West Bank not only violates the very right on which Zionism morally stands – the right of all peoples to self-determination as Israel's Declaration of Independence declares – it will also eventually lead to a bi-national state in which neither the Jews nor the Palestinians will be able to exercise self-determination. Therefore, Taub has been a vocal critic of the settlement movement and supports immediate unilateral withdrawal from all occupied territories, with or without a peace agreement. He is also a vocal critic of the extreme post-Zionist left, which does not acknowledge the right of Jews to national self-determination, and which advocates a one-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31940074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31940074", "title": "George Crawfurd", "text": "George Crawfurd\n\nGeorge Crawford (also Crawfurd) (1681-1748) was a Scottish genealogist and historian.\n\nHe was the third son of Thomas Crawfurd of Cartsburn. When Simon Fraser laid claim to the barony of Lovat, he employed Crawfurd to investigate the case and to supply materials to support it. It is said to have been chiefly due to the researches of Crawfurd that Fraser obtained a favorable decision; but he declined to pay Crawfurd anything. \n\nHe died at Glasgow, 24 December 1748.\n\nCrawfurd was the author of:\n\n\nThe \"Description of the Shire of Renfrew\" was published separately, with a continuation by Semple, at Paisley in 1788, and a second edition, with a continuation by Robertson, also at Paisley, 1818. \n\nThe \"Letters of Simon, Lord Fraser, to George Crawfurd, 1728–30\", while the Lovat case was in progress, were published in the \"Spottiswoode Miscellany\", 400–9.\n\nBy his wife, Mary, daughter of James Anderson, author of ‘Diplomata Scotiæ,’ he had four daughters.\n\n"}
{"id": "25443335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25443335", "title": "Hayyim Schirmann", "text": "Hayyim Schirmann\n\nHayyim (Jefim) Schirmann (; October 19, 1904 – June 14, 1981) was an Israeli scholar of medieval Spanish and Italian Jewish poetry.\n\nSchirmann was born in Kiev in the Russian Empire (today in Ukraine). He studied in his home country until 1919. His family then moved to Germany. he received a degree in Semitic linguistics from Berlin University in 1930. He joined the Schocken Institute for Study of Medieval Hebrew Poetry in 1930, and emigrated to Mandate Palestine, now Israel, in 1934 when the Institute relocated there.\n\nHe began lecturing in medieval poetry at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1942, and became a professor there in 1954. Schirmann continuing his work at the university until 1968. He died in Paris in 1981.\n\nSchirmann was also an accomplished musician and violinist; he published essays on music and frequently referred to parallels between music and Jewish literature in his literary works.\n\nIn 1957, Schirmann was awarded the Israel Prize, for Jewish studies.\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n\nThis article incorporates material from the article in German Wikipedia.\n"}
{"id": "2796218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2796218", "title": "Henry Francis Pelham", "text": "Henry Francis Pelham\n\nHenry Francis Pelham, FSA, FBA (10 September 1846 in Bergh Apton, Norfolk – 13 February 1907) was an English scholar and historian. He was Camden Professor of Ancient History at the University of Oxford from 1889 to 1907, and was also President of Trinity College, Oxford from 1897 to 1907.\n\nHe was grandson of Thomas Pelham, 2nd Earl of Chichester, and eldest of the five children of John Thomas Pelham, bishop of Norwich, and Henrietta, second daughter of Thomas William Tatton of Wythenshawe Hall, Cheshire. \nOf his three brothers, John Barrington became vicar of Thundridge in 1908, and Sidney archdeacon of Norfolk in 1901. \nPelham was born on 19 September 1846 at Bergh Apton, then his father's parish. \nEntering Harrow (Westcott's house) in May 1860, he moved rapidly up the school, and left in December 1864. \nNext year he won an open classical scholarship at Trinity College, Oxford, matriculating on 22 April 1865; he came into residence in October. \nAt Oxford he took 'first classes' in honour classical moderations and in \"literæ humaniores\", was elected a fellow of Exeter College in 1869, and graduated B.A. in the same year. \nIn 1870, he won the chancellor's English essay prize with a dissertation on the reciprocal influence of national character and national language. \nHe worked continuously as classical tutor and lecturer at Exeter College from 1870 till 1889. He was elected by his college proctor of the university in 1879. \nLosing his fellowship on his marriage in 1873, he was re-elected in 1882, under the statutes of the second university commission.\nFrom school onwards his principal subject was ancient and more particularly Roman history. He soon began to publish articles on this theme (first in \"Journal of Philology,\" 1876), while his lectures, which (under the system then growing up) were open to members of other colleges besides Exeter, attracted increasingly large audiences; he also planned, with the Clarendon Press, a detailed \"History of the Roman Empire,\" which he was not destined to carry out. \nIn 1887, he succeeded W. W. Capes as 'common fund reader' in ancient history, and in 1889 he became Camden Professor of Ancient History in succession to George Rawlinson, a post to which a fellowship at Brasenose College is attached. \nAs professor he developed the lectures and teaching which he had been giving as college tutor and reader, and attracted even larger audiences.\n\nBut his research work was stopped by an attack of cataract in both eyes (1890), and though a few specimen paragraphs of his projected \"History\" were set up in type in 1888, he completed in manuscript only three and a half chapters, covering the years B.C. 35-15, and he never resumed the work after 1890; his other research, too, was hereafter limited to detached points in Roman imperial history. \nOn the other hand, he joined actively in administrative work, for which his strong personality and his clear sense fitted him at least as well as for research; he served on many Oxford boards, was a member of the hebdomadal council from 1879 to 1905, aided semi-academic edu- cational movements (for women, &c.), and in 1897 accepted the presidency of his old college. Trinity. \nHe was elected honorary fellow of Exeter in 1895, was an original fellow of the British Academy in 1902 and received the hon. degree of LL.D. at Aberdeen in 1906. \nHe became F.S.A. in 1890.\n\nHe died in the president's lodgings at Trinity on 12 February 1907, and was buried in St Sepulchre's Cemetery. \nOn 30 July 1873, he married Laura Priscilla, third daughter of Sir Edward Buxton, 2nd Baronet, and granddaughter of Sir Fowell Buxton, 1st Baronet; she survived him with two sons and a daughter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1402956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1402956", "title": "Historiae Ecclesiasticae Tripartitae Epitome", "text": "Historiae Ecclesiasticae Tripartitae Epitome\n\nHistoriae Ecclesiasticae Tripartitae Epitome, the abridged history (in twelve books) of the early Christian Church known as the Tripartite History, was the standard manual of Church history in Medieval Europe. \n\nThe work was compiled, under the direction of Cassiodorus, in about 510 CE, by his assistant Epiphanius Scholasticus. Epiphanius was assigned the translation into Latin of the Greek church histories of Socrates Scholasticus, Sozomen and Theodoret, written in the previous century. He would probably have used the library assembled by Cassiodorus at Monasterium Vivariense, the monastery of Vivarium on his family estates at the foot of Mount Moscius on the shores of the Ionian Sea. Cassiodorus revised and corrected the work and arranged it into one continuous history of the church. His scriptorium then published it for the use of the clergy. \n\nThe book attained a high reputation. Only Eusebius' \"History\", in a Latin translation by Rufinus competed with it as the official version of church history in the West, until original sources began to be rediscovered, edited and printed by humanist scholars in the 15th century.\n"}
{"id": "16943266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16943266", "title": "Insurgency in Ogaden", "text": "Insurgency in Ogaden\n\nThe Insurgency in Ogaden is an ongoing separatist insurgency, waged by the Ogaden National Liberation Front (ONLF) against the Ethiopian government. The war began in 1994 when the ONLF attempted to recreate the Greater Somalian state by unifying Ethiopia's Somali Region with Somalia.\n\nThe Ogaden region was conquered by the Ethiopian Empire in the middle of the 19th century, making it a buffer zone between the state and expanding European interests in the region. Unlike the rest of Ethiopia it is populated by the Ogadeni people, a subgroup of Somalis. For most of its history under Ethiopian administration Ogaden was regarded as an inhospitable land, inhabited by uncivilized people who did not adhere to Christianity. Isolated military garrisons were erected through the land, exacting taxes from the local herders.\n\nIn 1936, Italy annexed Ethiopia in the aftermath of the Second Italo-Ethiopian War, integrating Ogaden into Italian Somalia and thus creating an ethnically homogenous Greater Somalia. In 1941, Britain defeated Italian East Africa, later installing a military administration of its own. The reunification of Ogaden with Somalia as well as the advocacy of British foreign minister Ernest Bevin for the creation of a Greater Somalian state forged what later came to be Somalian nationalism. Hopes of a unified Somalian state were not put into practice as Ogaden was gradually reincorporated into Ethiopia between 1948–1954. Somalia then began to sponsor the Western Somali Liberation Front and the Somali Abo Liberation Front, armed separatist factions operating within Ethiopia. The 1969 and 1974 Coup d'états in Somalia and Ethiopia respectively led to an unsuccessful Somalian invasion of Ogaden. Ethiopia emerged victorious from the war, turning Ogaden into a militarized zone and conducting population transfers in order to quell any signs of sedition.\n\nIn the meantime the Eritrean People’s Liberation Front and the Tigrayan People's Liberation Front overthrew the Ethiopian Derg dictatorship, leading to a period of political instability. The Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Democratic Front assumed power by creating a coalition of ethno-nationalist movements from across the country, choosing the previously marginalised Ogaden National Liberation Front as its ally in Ogaden. ONLF's previously exiled leadership returned from exile, gaining the support of local population. Eritrea attained independence in the aftermath of the Eritrean War of Independence, inspiring ONLF to pursue a similar goal for Ogaden. In January 1993, ONLF candidate Abdillahi Mohammed Sadi was elected Somali Regional president by receiving 70% of the votes, Sadi was however sacked by Tigray People’s Liberation Front officials seven months later creating a power vacuum. Tensions between the TPLF and ONLF escalated in 1994, as ONLF split into a moderate wing willing to cooperate with TPLF and a radical secessionist wing led by Ibrahim Abdallah Mah that initiated armed struggle.\n\nThe outbreak of the conflict soon attracted the attention of jihadist elements in the region. The Somali militant group Al-Itihaad al-Islamiya, established a training camp in Luuq, while portraying the war as a clash of Christianity and Islam. Its Ogaden wing later conducted a series of attacks on major Ethiopian cities. Osama bin Laden described Ogaden as place where Muslims were oppressed by a “Judeo-Christian alliance” during his 1996 declaration of jihad against the United States. Al-Qaeda agents had previously infiltrated Ogaden, investing $3 million in smuggling foreign fighters into the region. Fighters from Turkey, Bosnia, Egypt, France, Gambia and other countries joined the conflict taking part in 35 engagements between June – July 1996. However, Islamist involvement in the war fell into obscurity after three successful government operations against Al-Itihaad al-Islamiya, that took place on 9 August 1996, 20 December 1996 and January 1997. Bin Laden's relocation from Sudan to Afghanistan also shifted Al-Qaeda's focus from the region.\n\nOn 20 December 1996, Ethiopian troops perpetrated a cross border raid on an Al-Itihaad al-Islamiya camp in Luuq, killing over 58 militants including 48 foreign volunteers.\n\nOn 13 April 2003, ONLF initiated the Operation Mandad, aiming the expulsion of government troops from the districts of Korahey and Dolo. Two days later a battle took place in the towns of Alen and Garas Qalo, security forces suffered 60 fatalities and lost 2 army trucks, 41 rebels were also killed in the fighting. Authorities responded by imposing curfews on the towns of Kebri Dehar, Warder, and Shilabo, 36 suspected militants were also arrested.\n\nOn 1 October 2005, insurgents launched attacks against government troops stationed in the towns of Hamarro and Fik, killing 4 and injuring 5 soldiers.\n\nOn 2 October 2005, the town of Gasan and an army base located in the district of Kebri Dehar came under a militant attack, 5 soldiers were slain and 6 wounded.\n\nOn 19 October 2005, rebels attacked an army encampment in the area of Kudunbur, 11 soldiers were killed and 13 wounded.\n\nOn 15 November 2005, Ethiopian troops allegedly committed a massacre of 30 civilians and prisoners after the later demanded better treatment from their captors.\n\nOn 13 March 2006, an ONLF delegation conducted a briefing with officials representing the Danish foreign ministry, human rights abuses were discussed during the meeting.\n\nOn 23 July 2006, a communique issued by ONLF announced the shootdown of an Ethiopian airforce, transport helicopter. The incident reportedly took place in the vicinity of the town Gabo Gabo, Qorahay zone, 20 soldiers were killed in the aftermath.\nOn 24 April 2007, ONLF launched an attack on a Chinese owned oil facility in Abole, a total of 74 people were killed in the attack including 9 Chinese citizens.\nIn response to the April 2007 ONLF attack, Ethiopian security forces initiated a large scale counter insurgency campaign against the ONLF. Between June 2007 – May 2008 approximately 1,000 people were killed as the opposing faction engaged in combat and committed human rights abuses.\n\nOn 3 July 2007, an ONLF ambush outside the town of Shilaabo resulted in the deaths of 43 soldiers, the separatists suffered 5 casualties and 8 rebels were injured.\n\nOn 22 January 2008, a government official announced the death of former top guerrilla commander Mohamed Sirad Dolal, following an operation in the Denan woreda of the Gode zone. By the time of his death Sirad had left ONLF and operated as a commander of Al-Itihad Al-Islami.\n\nOn 3 August 2009, an Ethiopian court convicted Bashir Ahmed Makhtal, an Ethiopian born Canadian citizen to life in prison, on charges of belonging to ONLF. Makhtal denied all allegations, stating that the reason behind his prosecution is his relation to one of ONLF's founding members.\n\nOn 27 October 2009, an ONLF spokesman accused the governments of Puntland and Somaliland of handing over ONLF rebels to the Ethiopean security forces.\n\nOn 11 January 2011, Ethiopian authorities freed 402 previously imprisoned ONLF members as part of a peace deal, previously signed with one of ONLF's factions.\n\nOn 4 July 2011, government troops killed 15 and detained 6 rebels, 2 Swedish journalists accompanying the militants were also wounded during the engagement.\n\nOn 2 September 2011, a band of ONLF rebels attacked a military convoy escorting Chinese oil workers, outside the city of Jijiga. The insurgents claimed to have killed 25 soldiers while suffering several casualties, a government spokesman denied the ambush took place.\n\nBetween 16–17 March 2012, according to a Human Rights Watch report, Ethiopian special police forces executed 10 civilians and looted dozens of shops in the village of Raqda, the attack came as a retaliation for the recent death of several policemen.\n\nBetween 10 – 24 October 2013, ONLF carried out attacks on 13 military outposts in the Korehey and Nogob zones, the faction claimed to have killed 24 soldiers during the operation.\n\nOn 6 December 2013, government troops engaged insurgents in the Banbaas, Qolaji and Hora-hawd villages, a rebel spokesman declared that 45 soldiers were killed in the battle, as rebels captured caches of weaponry and other equipment.\n\nBetween 1 June – 9 July 2014, five Ethiopian nationals were gunned down in the city of Garissa, Kenya. Investigations into the murders revealed the victims to be ONLF members or sympathizers, three Ethiopians and two Kenyans were detained in connection with the murders. The perpetrators allegedly belong to Ethiopian government militias. An ONLF official accused the militias of killing at least 10 Ogadenian refugees between 2010–2011.\n\nOn 26 February 2015, a Liyuu police unit skirmished with ONLF rebels in the Las-Galol village south-east of the city of Harar. A day earlier clashes took place in Galalshe, Jigjiga area. The incident took place amidst an escalation in fighting following the death of ONLF commander Mustafe Haybe, two journalists and allegedly 120 government soldiers in recent engagements.\n\nA number of non-government organisations have accused the Ethiopian military and police of committing human rights violations. A Human Rights Watch representative compared the actions of Ethiopian security forces to crimes against humanity. Ethiopian soldiers and policemen have reportedly participated in numerous instances of rape, arbitrary detention, selective killings, torture and vandalism. In 2005, Ethiopian troops allegedly destroyed a village populated by the Armak minority, killing the denizens with metal bars. New York Times journalists reporting on the story were detained without charges and had their equipment confiscated. Ethiopia's tight control on the access of independent journalists into the region, has complicated the examination of assertions made by both sides of the conflict. ONLF activists have also claimed that Ethiopian officials used foreign aid as a form of blackmail, purposefully starving thousands of people. The above accusations have been dismissed by the Ethiopian government, which accused NGOs of acting as propaganda tools while completely ignoring abuses committed by the guerrillas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47787581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47787581", "title": "Jaz-O", "text": "Jaz-O\n\nJonathan Burks (born October 4, 1964), better known by his stage name Jaz-O, is an American rapper and record producer active in the late 1980s through the 1990s, best known for being the mentor of Brooklyn rapper Jay-Z. Jaz is also known as the Originator and had a song called \"The Originators\" that featured a young Jay-Z in 1990. As The Jaz, he had success with his 1989 single \"Hawaiian Sophie\" from his debut album \"Word to the Jaz\". He has been featured on some of Jay-Z's songs, such as \"Bring it On\" (from \"Reasonable Doubt\"), \"Ain't No Nigga\", and the single \"Nigga What, Nigga Who (Originator 99)\" from \"\", where he was credited as Big Jaz. He also produced the single \"Ain't No Nigga\" from \"Reasonable Doubt\" and the song \"Rap Game/Crack Game\" from \"In My Lifetime, Vol. 1\". The album \"Kingz Kounty (2002) - with The Immobilarie Present\" marked the last time Jay-Z and mentor Jaz-O would ever collaborate.\n\nThe long-standing feud between him and Jay-Z started when Jay-Z started Roc-A-Fella Records and he tried to convince Jaz-O and fellow rapper Sauce Money to sign with the label. They both refused. It is rumored that they didn't trust Roc-A-Fella Records CEO's Damon Dash and Kareem \"Biggs\" Burke. In addition, they weren't satisfied with what they were to be receiving had they signed the contract, $300,000 in Jaz-O's case. Jay-Z confirms this event on the song \"What We Talkin' About\" on the \"Blueprint 3\" album when he says \"Dame made millions, even Jaz made some scraps, he could've made more but he ain't sign his contract\".\n\nJaz was an important figure in the . It is also speculated that Jaz-O supplied Nas with some of the information he used in his Jay-Z diss track \"Ether\". After the situation with Nas cooled down, Jay-Z went on to diss Jaz first on a track released by DJ Kayslay featuring Freeway, Geda K, Young Chris, and Memphis Bleek titled \"Fuck Jaz-O AKA Jaz Ho\" in which they rapped over Styles P's \"Good Times\" instrumental and later on his album \"\". Jay-Z states on the track, \"I'ma let karma catch up to Jaz-O.\" Jaz responded with a record on a DJ Kayslay mixtape entitled \"Ova\" and after the response from Jay-Z and the members of Roc-A-Fella, he released his own response with the diss record known as \"Ova Part 2\" in which he raps over N.O.R.E.'s \"Nothin'\" instrumental.\n\nDespite the long-standing feud between mentor and protégé, Jay-Z still gives Jaz-O credit for his success (although he disses him at the same time) as heard in the song \"I Do It For Hip Hop\" on Ludacris's \"Theater of the Mind\" album. Jay-Z says \"Shout out to Grand Master Flash and to Caz and even Jaz's bum ass\".\n\nSoon after the \"I Do It For Hip Hop\" diss from Jay-Z, Jaz-O responded with a diss record entitled \"Go Harder\" where he starts by rapping over his protege's \"Brooklyn Go Hard\" beat before the beat changes.\n\nIn late August 2009, Jaz-O was featured on another song dissing Jay-Z entitled \"Gangstas Ride\" with West Coast rapper, The Game. Jaz references \"Ether\" with the line, \"Jaz-O, stupid motherfucker, not Shawn, never been bashed on a Tupac song\". The song was fueled by the beef between Game and Jay-Z.\n\nIn December 2017 they reunited at Jay Z's concert seemingly ending the feud.\n\nBesides being an emcee, he has produced songs for several hip hop artists other than Jay-Z, such as Group Home, M.O.P, Ras Kass, Rakim, Kool G Rap, and others.\n"}
{"id": "356926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=356926", "title": "Juan Galindo", "text": "Juan Galindo\n\nJuan Galindo (1802–January 30, 1840) was an Anglo-Irish political activist and military and administrative officer under the Liberal government of the Federal Republic of Central America. He represented the government in a diplomatic mission to the United States and England. His duties in Central America allowed him to explore the region and examine Maya ruins. The reports on his findings earned him recognition as early pioneer of Maya archaeology. \n\nGalindo was born in Dublin in 1802 as John Galindo. His father, Philemon Galindo was an Englishman of Spanish descent and his mother, Catherine Gough, was Irish. Both parents were actors who met while working at a theater in Bath. They married in Dublin in 1801. His early life is obscure and it is not known why or exactly when he left for the New World. Sources differ on his emigration but sometime before he was twenty he either joined Admiral Thomas Cochrane to fight for Chile's independence or he joined his uncle, a plantation owner in Jamaica. \n\nThe first clear record of his early career occurred in 1827 when he worked as secretary and translator for the British consul in Guatemala. By 1828 he was the superintendent for improvements at the port of Iztapa as well as a major in a Honduras battalion.\n\nIn 1829 the Liberal forces led by Francisco Morazán invaded Guatemala. Galindo joined the Liberals and Morazán's army quickly brought the revolution to a successful end. Morazán established the Federal Republic of Central America and Galindo enjoyed the patronage of Morazán and Mariano Gálvez, the chief of state in Guatemala. The new federal congress granted Galindo naturalization papers and he changed his name to Juan.\n\nGalindo undertook several military assignments for the new government, including officer of a military garrison at Omoa, commander of the port at Trujillo, and military governor of Petén. In 1834, he received a million-acre land grant in Petén with the stipulations that he pacify the native Lacandon Maya and settle the area in five years with colonists who would be loyal to the Guatemalan government. He soon realized that the boundary between Guatemala and Belize was in dispute and the British claimed that Galindo's new land grant belonged to Belize. British mahogany cutters were actively logging the area, depriving Galindo of the land's most valuable asset. When discussions with Frederick Chatfield in Belize failed to resolve the issue, Central America appointed Galindo as envoy to negotiate directly with the British Foreign Office in London.\n\nGalindo left Central America in January, 1835, stopping first in Washington, DC in hopes of enlisting the United States to support his cause against Britain. In return, Galindo offered to provide information regarding possible canal routes through Nicaragua. He met with Secretary of State John Forsyth and President Andrew Jackson in May, 1835 but failed to gain their support. Galindo proceeded to London and arrived there in August. He had a meeting with Foreign Secretary Lord Palmerston soon after his arrival but then talks proceeded in a desultory fashion. By April 1836 Palmerston had determined not to work with Galindo and offered the expedient excuse that since Galindo was born a British subject, he could not represent a foreign government. \n\nWithout a clear title to his land grant in Petén, Galindo was unable to attract settlers. Instead, he petitioned Central America for another opportunity and was provided a grant on the Mosquito Coast. While still in London, Galindo recruited his father and other relatives to lead a group of colonists to settle on this remote coast. This enterprise ended in failure; the settlers were ill-equipped, lacked sufficient supplies, and found no way to earn a living once they arrived. By the time Galindo returned to Central America in 1836, the settlement had collapsed and his father had returned to England. He also found that his influence with the Central America government was greatly diminished.\n\nThe Liberal regime that had governed Central America was under pressure on several fronts. Galindo attempted to rally support against perceived British aggression but this effort failed to gain popular attention. When civil war broke out, he rejoined the army under Liberal general, Trinidad Cabañas. Cabañas was defeated by the joint forces of Honduras and Nicaragua near the city of Tegucigalpa and Galindo was killed on January 30, 1840 in the aftermath of the battle.\n\nAs military governor of Petén, Galindo undertook an exploratory trip down the Usumacinta River and then crossed overland to reach the Maya ruins at Palenque in April 1831. He spent a month exploring the site and wrote an account of the various structures, drew plans, and sketched several of the decorations he encountered. Later that year his account was published by the London \"Literary Gazette\" and the Geographical Society in Paris. He also sent a small collection of Maya objects to the Royal Society in London.\n\nIn 1834, Galindo was sent by the Central American government to survey and report on the ruins at Copán. He spent about ten weeks exploring the area, writing reports and sketching his findings. He wrote two brief reports for the London \"Literary Gazette\" and the American Antiquarian Society. A more detailed report with twenty-six illustrations was sent to the Société de Géographie in Paris and the original was sent to his government with the mistaken assumption that it would be published. Instead, it was filed away and \"lost\" for more than a hundred years when it was uncovered and published in 1945. \n\nAlthough it was just a small part of his career, Galindo proved to be an astute observer and an effective communicator who earned recognition as an early pioneer of Maya archaeology. He wrote some thirty-two letters to the Société de Géographie sharing his ideas and insights. Galindo was one of the first to point out the close resemblance between the contemporary Maya peoples and the carved images of the ancient Maya to be found among the ruins. He correctly suggested that the original Maya civilization was created by the ancestors of the contemporary Mayas. He was also the first investigator to carefully copy the Maya hieroglyphics and identify them as a unique form of writing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30336755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30336755", "title": "Karel C. Berkhoff", "text": "Karel C. Berkhoff\n\nKarel Cornelis Berkhoff (born 1965) is a senior researcher at NIOD Institute for War, Holocaust and Genocide Studies in Amsterdam.\n\nBerkhoff studied history and Russian studies at the University of Amsterdam, Soviet Studies at Harvard University and graduated in 1998 as a historian at the University of Toronto, studying under Paul Robert Magocsi, Chair of Ukrainian Studies. He studies primarily World War II in Russia and Eastern Europe. He was an advisor to the ZDF documentary \"Holocaust\" (2000).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41039874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41039874", "title": "Khazar hypothesis of Ashkenazi ancestry", "text": "Khazar hypothesis of Ashkenazi ancestry\n\nThe Khazar hypothesis of Ashkenazi ancestry, often called the \"Khazar myth\" by its critics, is the hypothesis that Ashkenazi Jews are descended from the Khazars, a multi-ethnic conglomerate of Turkic peoples who formed a semi-nomadic Khanate in the area extending from Eastern Europe to Central Asia. The hypothesis draws on some medieval sources such as the Khazar Correspondence, according to which at some point in the 8th–9th centuries, the ruling elite of the Khazars was said by Judah Halevi and Abraham ibn Daud to have converted to Rabbinic Judaism. The scope of the conversion within the Khazar Khanate remains uncertain: the evidence used to tie the Ashkenazi communities to the Khazars is meager and subject to conflicting interpretations.\n\nThis hypothesis has had a complex history within academia. While most contemporary scholars dismiss it, the hypothesis has often been argued in the past, and still finds occasional defenders of its plausibility. In the late 19th century, Ernest Renan and other scholars speculated that the Ashkenazi Jews of Europe originated among Turkic refugees who had migrated from the collapsed Khazarian Khanate westward into Europe, and exchanged their native Khazar language for Yiddish while continuing to practice Judaism. Though intermittently evoked by several scholars since that time, the Khazar-Ashkenazi hypothesis came to the attention of a much wider public with the publication of Arthur Koestler's \"The Thirteenth Tribe\" in 1976. It has been revived recently by Eran Elhaik, who in 2012 conducted a study aiming to vindicate it. Despite skepticism, he reformulated the concept in 2016 by developing a novel method of genetic analysis that uses the fringe linguistic theories of the Yiddish expert Paul Wexler.\n\nGenetic studies on Jews have found no substantive evidence of a Khazar origin among Ashkenazi Jews, as opposed to evidence they have mixed Near Eastern/Mediterranean and Southern European origins.\n\nThe hypothesis has been used at times by anti-Zionists to challenge the idea that Jews have ancestral ties to ancient Israel, and it has also played a role in anti-Semitic attitudes.\n\nSome sources attribute to the Ukrainian Rabbi Isaac Baer Levinsohn (1788–1860) the first reference to a connection between the Ashkenazi Jews and the Khazars. Levinsohn also recorded that the tradition of their forefathers was that Ashkenazi Jews had earlier spoken Russian before acquiring Yiddish. The hypothesis was advanced in 1808 by Johann Ewers, in the context of an early controversy over the foundations of the Russian state, which pitted scholars espousing a Norman origin for the Varangians against those who argued that these founders of the Kievan Rus' were Slavic and indigenous. Ewers proposed the idea that the Viking/Varangian founders were in fact Khazars. The Russian historian Nikolay Karamzin advanced the claim, asserting that considerable numbers of Khazars had left Khazaria for Kievan Rus' in the time of Vladimir I (980–1015). The German Orientalist Karl Neumann suggested as early as 1847 that the migration of Khazars might have contributed to the formation of the core population of the Jews of Eastern Europe, without however specifying whether he was referring to Judaizing Turks or ethnic Jewish residents of Khazaria.\n\nSubsequently, Abraham Eliyahu Harkavi suggested in 1869 that there might be a link between the Khazars and European Jews. Three years later, however, in 1872, a Crimean Karaite, Abraham Firkovich, alternatively proclaimed that the members of his Turkic-speaking sect were descended from Turkic converts to Judaism. This hypothesis, that the descendents of Khazar converts to Judaism formed a major proportion of Ashkenazim, was first proposed to a Western public by Ernest Renan in 1883. In a lecture delivered in Paris before the \"Cercle du Saint-Simon\" on 27 January 1883, Renan argued that conversion played a significant role in the formation of the Jewish people, stating that:\nThis conversion of the kingdom of the Khazars has a considerable importance regarding the origin of those Jews who dwell in the countries along the Danube and southern Russia. These regions enclose great masses of Jewish populations which have in all probability nothing or almost nothing that is anthropologically Jewish in them.\n\nRenan's thesis found an echo soon after, in 1885, when Isidore Loeb, a rabbi, historian and secretary of the Alliance Israélite Universelle, in arguing for the cause of Jewish emancipation, challenged the notion that nations were based on races, and the Jews therefore could be excluded as alien. To the contrary, he argued, they were no different from other peoples and nations, all of which arose from miscegenation: the Jews were no exception, and one could assume, he added, that many German and Russian Jews descended from the Khazars.\n\nOccasional suggestions emerged that there was a small Khazar component in East European Jews in works by Joseph Jacobs (1886), Anatole Leroy-Beaulieu (1893), Maksymilian Ernest Gumplowicz, and by the Russian-Jewish anthropologist Samuel Weissenberg.\n\nLeroy-Beaulieu, a critic of anti-Semitism who perhaps drew on Renan, queried whether or not thousands of Polish and Russian Jews might have their origins traced back to the \"old nomads of the steppes.\"\n\nIn 1909 Hugo von Kutschera developed the notion into a book-length study, arguing that Khazars formed the foundational core of the modern Ashkenazi. Maurice Fishberg introduced the notion to an American audience in 1911 in his book, \"The Jews: A Study of Race and Environment\".\n\nWhen at the Versailles Peace Conference, a Jewish Zionist called Palestine the land of the Jewish people's ancestors, Joseph Reinach, a French Jewish member of parliament who was opposed to Zionism, dismissed the idea, arguing that Jews descended from Israelites were a tiny minority. In his view, conversion had played a major role in the expansion of the Jewish people, and, in addition, he claimed, the majority of \"Russian, Polish and Galician Jews descend from the Khazars, a Tatar people from the south of Russia who converted to Judaism in mass at the time of Charlemagne.\"\n\nThe idea was also taken up by the Polish-Jewish economic historian and General Zionist Yitzhak Schipper in 1918, by scholarly anthropologists, such as Roland B. Dixon (1923), and by writers like H. G. Wells (1921) who used it to argue that \"The main part of Jewry never was in Judea\", a thesis that was to have a political echo in later opinion. In 1931 Sigmund Freud wrote to Max Eitingon that the sculptor Oscar Nemon, for whom he was sitting, showed the lineaments of a \"Slavic Eastern Jew, Khazar or Kalmuck or something like that\".\n\nIn 1932, Samuel Krauss ventured the theory that the biblical Ashkenaz referred to northern Asia Minor, and he identified it with the Khazars, a position immediately disputed by Jacob Mann.\n\nThis interwar period consolidated also a belief, originally developed by the Russian Orientalists V.V. Grigor’iev and V.D. Smirnov, that the East European congregations of the Karaite sect of Judaism were descendants of Turkic Khazars. The idea of a Khazarian origin of the Karaites was then adopted as their official viewpoint. Seraja Szapszal (1873–1961), from 1927, the ḥakham of the Polish-Lithuanian Karaite community had begun to implement a thorough-going reform policy of dejudaizing Karaite culture and traditions and transforming along Turkic lines. As a secular Jew and orientalist he was influenced by Atatürk's reforms, and his policy was dictated by several considerations: Jews were suffering from harassment in public and private in Eastern Europe; he wished to forestall the threat he had intuited was imminent in both Fascism and Nazism, which were beginning to gain a foothold; he was passionate about the Karaites' language, Karaim, and its Turkish tradition, and somewhat insouciant of the Judaic heritage of his people. In 1934 Corrado Gini, a distinguished statistician, interested also in demography and anthropology, with close ties to the fascist elite, led an expedition in August–October 1934 to survey the Karaites. He concluded that Karaites were ethnically mixed, predominantly Chuvash which he mistook to be Finno-Ugric descendants of the Tauro-Cimmerians who at one point had been absorbed into the Khazars who for Gini however were not Turkic. A further conclusion was that the Ashkenazi arose from ‘Turko-Tatar converts to Judaism.’ Though the Khazar-Karaite theory is unsubstantiated by any historical evidence, - the early Karaite literature speaks of Khazars as mamzerim, 'bastards' or 'strangers' within Judaism - this myth served a political purpose, of taking that community out of the stranglehold of anti-Semitic regulations and prejudices directed generally against Jews in Eastern Europe.\n\nIn 1943, Abraham N. Polak (sometimes referred to as \"Poliak\"), later professor of the history of the Middle Ages at Tel Aviv University, published a Hebrew monograph in which he concluded that the East European Jews came from Khazaria.\n\nIn Nazi Germany, unlike most race theorists in Germany down to his time Hans F. K. Günther argued that the Jews were not a pure race, although he nevertheless considered them to be highly inbred. He argued that the Ashkenazi were a mix of Near Eastern, Oriental, East Baltic, Eastern, Inner-Asian, Nordic, Hamite, and Negro peoples and separate from the Sephardim. Günther believed that the conversion of the Khazars, whom he took to have been a Near Eastern race constituted a further external element in the racial makeup of the Ashkenazi Jews, strengthening its Near Eastern component. Günther’s theorizing about racial consequences flowing from the conversion of the Khazars was embraced by Gerhard Kittel.\n\nThe Karaite claim not to be ethnic Jews, but descendants of the Khazars, was eventually accepted by the Nazis who exempted them, unlike the Crimean Krymchaks with whom they had historic ties, from the policy of genocidal extermination on these grounds.\n\nIn debates leading up to the UN plan in 1947 to partition Palestine into Jewish and Arab states, the British politicians John Hope Simpson and Edward Spears, intent on denying Zionism that part of its claim that drew on biblical arguments, asserted that Jewish immigrants to Mandatory Palestine were the descendants of pagan converts and not of the Israelites. The approach was one shared by both gentile and Jewish anti-Zionists. Rory Miller claims that their denial of a lineal descent from Israelites drew on the Khazar theory.\n\nIn anti-Zionist argumentation delivered at the UN during 1947 Faris al-Khoury and Jamal Al-Husseini used the theory to oppose the creation of a Jewish state on racial and historic grounds. Cecil Hourani claimed that the Arab leaders had been convinced of the value of the argument by Benjamin H. Freedman. Internal British documents seem to support the claim. It would later play a role in Arab anti-Zionist polemics, taking on an antisemitic edge, though Bernard Lewis, noted in 1987 that serious Arab scholars had dropped it, remarked that it only occasionally emerged in Arab political polemics.\n\nD.M. Dunlop, writing in 1954, thought very little evidence backed what he regarded as a mere assumption, and argued that the Ashkenazi-Khazar descent hypothesis went far beyond what \"our imperfect records\" permit.\n\nLéon Poliakov, while assuming the Jews of Western Europe resulted from a \"panmixia\" in the first millennium, asserted in 1955 that it was widely assumed that Europe's Eastern Jews descended from a mixture of Khazarian and German Jews. Polak's work found some support from Salo Wittmayer Baron and Ben-Zion Dinur, but was dismissed by Bernard Weinryb as a fiction (1962).\n\nIn 1957 Salo Wittmayer Baron, called by his biographer an \"architect of Jewish history\", devoted a large part of a chapter in his \"Social and Religious History of the Jews\" to the Khazarian Jewish state, and the impact he believed that community exercised on the formation of East European Jewries in his \"Social and Religious History of the Jews\" (1957). The scarcity of direct Jewish testimonies did not disconcert Baron: this was to be expected since medieval Jews were \"generally inarticulate outside their main centers of learning\". The Khazarian turn to Judaism was, he judged, the \"largest and last mass conversion\", involving both the royal house and large sectors of the population. Jews migrated there to flee the recurrent intolerance against Jews and the geopolitical upheavals of the region's chronic wars, which often proved devastating to northern Asia Minor, between Byzantium, Sassanid Persia, and the Abbasid and Ummayad Caliphates.\n\nFor Baron, the fact of Jewish Khazaria played a lively role in stirring up among Western Jews an image of \"red Jews\", and among Jews in Islamic countries a beacon of hope. After the dissolution of Khazaria, Baron sees a diaspora drifting both north into Russia, Poland and the Ukraine, and westwards into Pannonia and the Balkans. where their cultivated presence both established Jewish communities and paved the way, ironically, for the Slavonic conversion to Christianity. By the 11th and 12th centuries, these Eastern Jews make their first appearance in the Jewish literature of France and Germany. Maimonides, bemoaning the neglect of learning in the East, laid his hopes for the perpetuation of Jewish learning in the young struggling communities of Europe but would, Baron concludes, have been surprised to find that within centuries precisely in Eastern Europe would arise thriving communities that were to assume leadership of the Jewish people itself.\n\nThe Khazar-Ashkenazi hypothesis came to the attention of a much wider public with the publication of Arthur Koestler's \"The Thirteenth Tribe\", which made sweeping claims for a Khazar legacy among the Ashkenazi in 1976. Koestler's work was both positively and negatively reviewed. Israel’s ambassador to Britain branded the book \"an anti-Semitic action financed by the Palestinians\", while Bernard Lewis claimed that the idea was not supported by any evidence whatsoever, and had been \"abandoned by all serious scholars\". Raphael Patai, however, registered some support for the idea that Khazar remnants had played a role in the growth of Eastern European Jewish communities, and several amateur researchers, such as Boris Altschüler (1994) and Kevin Alan Brook, kept the thesis in the public eye. Brook's views evolved as new data became available: in the first edition of his book (1999), he contended that about one-fourth of Ashkenazic ancestry may trace back to the Khazars, whereas in the second edition (2006) he regarded the Khazar contribution as \"small\" and in the third edition (2018) he argued against any Khazar contribution. Koestler argued that this theory would mitigate European racially based antisemitism.\n\nThe theory has been used to counter the concept of Jewish nationhood. It has been revived recently in a variety of approaches, from linguistics (Paul Wexler) to historiography (Shlomo Sand) and population genetics (Eran Elhaik). In broad academic perspective, both the idea that the Khazars converted \"en masse\" to Judaism, and the suggestion that they emigrated to form the core population of Ashkenazi Jewry, remain highly polemical issues.\n\nBefore modern DNA population genetics entered the field, Raphael Patai described the Khazars in racial terms as being a Turkic people with some Mongoloid admixture. After major advances in DNA sequence analysis and computing technology in the late 20th and early 21st century, a plethora of genetic research on Jewish and other human populations has been conducted worldwide. The Yiddish scholar Alexander Beider regards genetic studies as often offering contradictory information, further complicated by the fact that some researchers' work is influenced by personal views. \n\nAccording to Martin B. Richards, presently available genetic studies, including his own study on Ashkenazi maternal lineages, all refute the Khazar theory. The claim that Ashkenazis as a whole take their origin from Khazars has been widely criticized as there is no direct evidence to support it. Using four Jewish groups, one being Ashkenazi, Kopelman \"et al\" found no evidence for the Khazar theory.\n\nWhile the consensus in genetic research is that the world's Jewish populations (including the Ashkenazim) share substantial genetic ancestry derived from a common Ancient Middle Eastern founder population, and that Ashkenazi Jews have no genetic ancestry attributable to Khazars,at least one study authored in this period diverge from the majority view in favor of the Khazar theory.\n\nCounter-evidence exists to the Khazar hypothesis claiming that the male lineage of Ashkenazi Jews originates from an ancient (2000 BCE - 700 BCE) population of the Middle East who spread to Europe. -DNA studies of Ashkenazi Jews conclude that their male lineage was founded by ancestors from the Middle East. and that they share this paternal ancestry with Sephardic Jewish populations. Genetic studies show that the male lineage of Ashkenazi Jews bear a common genetic heritage which originates in the Near East, and that they bear their strongest resemblance to the peoples of the Fertile Crescent. A study of Ashkenazi mitochondrial DNA by a team led by Martin B. Richards of the University of Huddersfield found no maternal lineages attributable to the Caucasus. Richards summarized the findings on the female line as such: \n\nIn 2000, the analysis of a report by British writer and journalist Nicholas Wade named \"Y Chromosome Bears Witness to Story of the Jewish Diaspora\" \n\nIn 2001 Nebel et al., summarizing studies that reported a low-level European gene flow contributing to Ashkenazi paternal gene pool, suggested this influence might be reflected in the Eu 19 chromosomes common in Eastern Europe, or otherwise, that Ashkenazim with this component might descend from Khazars, an hypothesis the authors found \"attractive\".\n\nIn 2003 Behar, remarking on the high frequency haplogroup R1a1 NRYs in that former Khazar sphere of influence and noting Paul Wexler's theory of relexification, raised the possibility that the Khazar theory might offer an attractive source for an important eastern component of the Ashkenazim. In 2008 David Goldstein asserted that the Khazar theory \"now seems to me plausible, if not likely\".\n\nA 2013 study by Rootsi, Behar et al. of Ashkenazi Levites (4% of the Jewish male line) found a high frequency of haplogroup R1a-M582 among them (64.9% of Ashkenazi Levites) pointing to a founding event and paternal ancestor common to half of them. Since R1a shows high frequency in Eastern Europe generally, it was thought possible, that the evidence might indicate the founder was a non-Jewish European. Testing the 3 hypotheses of a European, a Near Eastern or a Khazarian origin, their data excluded both the European and Khazarian origin of a Levite founder since they found no evidence of R1a-M582 Y-chromosomes was found in either group, other than singletons, while it occurs with significant frequency in Near Eastern regions Iranian Kerman, Iranian Azeri, the Kurds from Cilician Anatolia and Kazakhstan, and among Ashkenazi and non-Ashkenazi Jews. R1a-M582 was not detected among data from Iraqi, Bedouins, Druze and Palestinians sampled in Israel.\n\nEran Elhaik has argued, in two separate papers, the first in 2012 and the latest (2016) co-authored by Wexler, that his genetic analysis strengthens the Khazar hypothesis. Of the 2012 study Elhaik wrote: \n\nIn the 2016 study Wexler, Elhaik, et al. argued that the first Ashkenazi populations to speak the Yiddish language came from areas near four villages in Eastern Turkey along the Silk Road whose names derived from the word \"Ashkenaz,\" rather than from Germanic lands as is the general consensus in scholarship. Elhaik and Wexler proposed a variant for the canonical Khazarian hypothesis, proposing that Iranians, Greeks, Turks, and Slavs converted to Judaism in Anatolia prior to migrating to Khazaria where a small-scale conversion had already occurred. The historian Bernard Spolsky commenting on Elhaik’s earlier study wrote. “Recently, Elhaik (2013) claims to have found evidence supporting the Khazarian origin of Ashkenazim, but the whole issue of genetic evidence remains uncertain.”\n\nIn June 2014, Shaul Stampfer published a paper challenging the Khazar hypothesis as ungrounded in sources contemporary with the Khazar period, stating: \"Such a conversion, even though it’s a wonderful story, never happened\".\n\nElhaik's 2012 study proved highly controversial. Several noted geneticists, among them Marcus Feldman, Harry Ostrer and Michael Hammer have maintained - and the view has gained widespread support among scientists - that the worldwide Jewish population is homogeneous and shares common roots in the Middle East, Feldman stated Elhaik's statistical analysis would not pass muster with most scientists; Hammer affirmed it was an outlier minority view without scientific support. Elhaik in reply described the group as ‘liars’ and ‘frauds’, noting Ostrer would not share genetic data that might be used ‘to defame the Jewish people’. Elhaik’s PhD supervisor Dan Graur, likewise dismissed them as a ‘clique’, and said Elhaik is ‘combative’ which is what science itself is.\n\nElhaik's 2012 study was specifically criticized for its use of Armenians and Azerbaijani Jews as proxies for Khazars and for using Bedouin and Jordanian Hashemites as a proxy for the Ancient Israelites. The former decision was criticized because Armenians were assumed to have a monolithic Caucasian ancestry, when as an Anatolian people (rather than Turkic) they contain many genetically Middle Eastern elements. Azerbaijani Jews are also assumed for the purposes of the study to have Khazarian ancestry, when Mountain Jews are actually descended from Persian Jews. The decision to cast Bedouin/Hashemites as \"proto-Jews\" was especially seen as political in nature, considering that both have origins in Arab tribes from the Arabian Peninsula rather than from the Ancient Israelites, while the descent of the Jews from the Israelites is largely accepted. The study was also criticized as interpreting information selectively—The study found far more genetic similarity between the Druze and Ashkenazim than the Ashkenazim and Armenians, but Elhaik rejected this as indicating a common Semitic origin, instead interpreting it as evidence of Druze having Turkic origins when they are known to come from Syria.\n\nGeneticists conducting studies in Jewish genetics have challenged Elhaik's methods in his first paper. Michael Hammer called Elhaik's premise \"unrealistic,\" calling Elhaik and other Khazarian hypothesis proponents \"outlier folks… who have a minority view that’s not supported scientifically. I think the arguments they make are pretty weak and stretching what we know.\" Marcus Feldman, director of Stanford University's Morrison Institute for Population and Resource Studies, echoes Hammer. \"If you take all of the careful genetic population analysis that has been done over the last 15 years… there’s no doubt about the common Middle Eastern origin,\" he said. He added that Elhaik’s first paper \"is sort of a one-off.\" Elhaik’s statistical analysis would not pass muster with most contemporary scholars, Feldman said: \"He appears to be applying the statistics in a way that gives him different results from what everybody else has obtained from essentially similar data.\" \n\nElhaik and Wexler's 2016 study was challenged by two prominent scholars of Jewish demography from the Hebrew University of Jerusalem. Shaul Stampfer, a professor of Soviet and East European Jewry, deemed it “basically nonsense.” Sergio DellaPergola, the primary demographer of the Jewish people at the university, called it a \"falsification\", criticizing its methodology, using a small population size and selectively removing population groups that refuted the findings they wanted, namely other Jewish groups such as the Italkim and Sephardic Jews, to whom Ashkenazi Jews are closely related genetically. “Serious research would have factored in the glaring genetic similarity between Sephardim and Ashkenazim, which mean Polish Jews are more genetically similar to Iraqi Jews than to a non-Jewish Pole.” Elhaik replied that “studying the DNA of non-Ashkenazic Jews would not change the DNA of Ashkenazic Jews nor the predicted origin of their DNA.'.\n\nRecently, a study by a team of biologists and linguists, led by Pavel Flegontov, a specialist in genomics, published a response to Das, Elhaik and Wexler's 2016 study, criticizing their methodology and conclusions. They argue that GPS allows inferences works for the origins of modern populations with an unadmixed genome, but not for tracing ancestries back 1,000 years ago. In their view, the paper tried to fit Wexler's 'marginal and unsupported interpretation' of Yiddish into a model that only permits valid deductions for recent unadmixed populations.\n\nMaurice Fishberg and Roland B. Dixon's works were later exploited in racist and religious polemical literature, by advocates of British Israelism, in both Britain and the United States. Particularly after the publication of Burton J. Hendrick ‘s \"The Jews in America\" (1923) it began to enjoy a vogue among advocates of immigration restrictions in the 1920s; racial theorists like Lothrop Stoddard; antisemitic conspiracy theorists like the Ku Klux Klan’s Hiram Wesley Evans; and anti-communist polemicists like John O. Beaty\n\nIn 1938, Ezra Pound, then strongly identifying with the Fascist regime of Benito Mussolini, sent a query to fellow poet Louis Zukofsky concerning the Khazars after someone had written to him claiming that the ancient Jews had died out and that modern Jews were of Khazar descent. He returned to the issue in 1955, apparently influenced by a book called \"Facts are Facts\", which pushed the Jewish-Khazar descent theory, and which for Pound had dug up \"a few savoury morsels\". The booklet in question, by a Roman Catholic convert from Rabbinic Judaism Benjamin H. Freedman was an anti-Semitic tirade written to David Goldstein after the latter had converted to Catholicism.\n\nJohn O. Beaty was an antisemitic, McCarthyite professor of Old English at SMU, author of \"The Iron Curtain over America\" (Dallas 1952). According to him, \"the Khazar Jews were responsible for all of America's – and the world's ills,\" beginning with World War I. The book had little impact until the former Wall Street broker and oil tycoon J. Russell Maguire promoted it. A similar position was adopted by Wilmot Robertson, whose views influenced David Duke. The British author Douglas Reed has also been influential. In his work the Ashkenazi are false Jews, descendants of the Khazars.\n\nA number of different variants of the theory came to be exploited by the Christian Identity movement. The Christian Identity movement, which took shape from the 1940s to the 1970s, had its roots in British Israelism which had been planted on American evangelical soil in the late 19th century. By the 1960s the Khazar ancestry theory was an article of faith in the Christian Identity movement. The Christian Identity movement has associated two verses from the New Testament, Revelation 2:9 and 3:9 with the Khazars. Jeffrey Kaplan calls these two passages the corner stone of Identity theology. He also reports that Christian Identity literature makes selective references to the Babylonian Talmud, while the works of Francis Parker Yockey and Arthur Koestler work are raised almost to the status of Holy Writ.\n\nThe theory was prominent in Soviet antisemitism, gaining a place in Soviet historiography. The theory influenced Soviet historians including Boris Rybakov, Mikhail Artamonov and Lev Gumilyov and was used to support soviet political theory. Artamonov argued that the Khazars had played an important role in the development of Rus’. A view that Rybakov disputed instead regarding the Khazar state as parasitic. Official Soviet views on the Khazars hardened after December 1951 when Pravda published a critical review of Artamonov's work under the pen name P. Ivanov. Rybakov for his part denied that he was Ivanov. It has been speculated that Ivanov was in fact Stalin. In Ivanov’s review the Khazars were regarded as parasites and enemies. Ivanov’s views became the certified Soviet position.\n\nLev Gumilyov’s theory of ethnogenesis draws heavily on the Khazars theory. For Gumilyov ethnicity was defined by stereotypical behavior which was linked to adaption to the terrain. Jews, he regarded as a parasitic, international urban class. The Jews had dominated the Khazars creating a chimera, subjecting Rus’ to the \"Khazar Yoke.\"\n\nSince the 1970s the term Khazars has entered the Russian nationalist lexicon, it is used as a euphemism for Jews. Vadim V. Kozhinov theorized that the Khazar Yoke was more dangerous to Rus´ than the Tatar Yoke. The Khazars were imagined as a persistent danger to Rus’. After the dissolution of the Soviet Union the theory maintained a role in Russian antisemitism. Contemporary Russian anti-Semites continue to perpetuate the Khazar myth. Gumilyov and his students work remain popular in Russia. “Khazars” and “ethnic chimera” have become preferred terms for antisemitic Russian chauvinists.\n\nAum Shinrikyo is a Japanese doomsday cult. The cult was active in Japan and Russia, with an estimated 10,000 and 30,000 followers respectively. The groups “Manual of Fear” used the Protocols of the Elders of Zion in addition to other anti-Semitic material. The manual claimed that the Jews are really Khazars intent on world domination.\nThe Khazar theory has also become part of the Ascended Masters theology. Hatonn, an extraterrestrial, transmits messages including the complete text of The Protocols of the Elders of Zion. He identifies the authors of The Protocols as Khazars and speaks of false Zionist Jews who have usurped and controlled the true Jews.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43628258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43628258", "title": "Knud Arne Jürgensen", "text": "Knud Arne Jürgensen\n\nKnud Arne Jürgensen (born 1952) is a Danish music-, opera-, ballet- and theater historian, dramaturg, curator of exhibitions, senior researcher, dr. phil.\n\nJürgensen studied music and theater history at the University of Copenhagen from 1975 and for seven years, but had previously to his studies in musicology studied piano with professor Galina Werschenska and later at the Royal Danish Academy of Music in Copenhagen. The combination of research in the fields of music, theater and dance has followed him since.\n\nDuring two periods in the late 1980s and mid-1990s, Knud Arne Jürgensen was a research fellow of the Danish Carlsberg Foundation. The work resulted in three English-language monographs on the Danish dancer, choreographer and ballet master August Bournonville, on whom Jürgensen has continued to work extensively which his considerable list of publications and several exhibitions testify to. An international theme exhibition at the Royal Danish Library, and a poster exhibition at The Royal Danish Theatre were carried out in the Bournonville jubilee-year 2005 marking the bicentenary of his birth.\n\nWhen Knud Arne Jürgensen in 1997 made his doctoral thesis (dr. phil., equivalent to Doctor of Music), it was with a music and theater historical thesis on the composer Giuseppe Verdi and the ballets in his operas, which resulted in Verdi ballet performances at the Berlin State Opera in 1999 (the ballet \"Verdiana\") and the Vienna State Opera in 2001 (\"Verdi Ballet: Ein Maskenball\"). He has furthermore written in-depth biographies of danish theater critics Herman Bang, Frederik Schyberg and Jens Kistrup and was chief editor and program author when the complete orchestral works by danish composer Hans Christian Lumbye were recorded during the period 1998-2004. In addition, he has reconstructed a number of forgotten choreographies of August Bournonville following the choreographer's original records.\n\nKnud Arne Jürgensen was also co-editor of the orchetral scores for the Bournonville ballet \"A Folk Tale (Et folkesagn)\" and a number of Lumbye works as a gift from the Royal Danish Library to Her Majesty Queen Margrethe II on her 60th birthday in 2000 and 70th birthday in 2010. Recently he has edited the CD-recording of Lumbye-works \"Fredensborgdage\" for the Royal Danish Lifeguards as a present on the occasion of Her Majesty Queen Margrethe II's 75th birthday in 2015.\n\nJürgensen was from 1998 to 2010 Head of the Drama Collection, research librarian, senior researcher and subject specialist in theater and performing arts at the Royal Danish Library. Since 2010, he has worked as exhibition curator, senior researcher and subject specialist at the Copenhagen Theatre Museum in the Court Theatre, where he has completed his most recent monographs on the late Danish theater critic Jens Kistrup, (published in 2012), and the first complete and annotated edition of the plays by Danish impressionist writer, Herman Bang (published in 2016).\n\nHe has also been a Fellow at the Danish Academy in Rome from 2011 to 2012, where he has been working on editing and publishing the score for the Italian baroque opera \"Il Valdemaro\" by the Neapolitan composer Domenico Sarro, a work that represents one of the earliest operas based on a Scandinavian theme, and which appeared for the first time on print in a new critical edition in 2013.\n\nKnud Arne Jürgensen, who has been a member and trustee of several professional boards, has published more than 30 Danish and international monographs in the field of music history and the performing arts and well over hundred scientific papers and essays. He has curated more than 20 Danish and international thematic exhibitions, guest lectured at the University of Copenhagen as well as at a large number of foreign universities, museums and theater institutions in the United States, Russia, Austria, Italy, France and Germany.\n\n•Jürgensen, Knud Arne: \"The Bournonville Ballets A Photographic Record 1844-1933\". London, Dance Books, 1987, xvi + 179 pp., ill., \n\n•Jürgensen, Knud Arne: \"The Bournonville Heritage A Choreographic Record 1829-1875\". London, Dance Books, 1990, Textbook (xx + 186 pp.), Piano score (x + 62 pp.), (Textbook), (Piano score)\n\n•Jürgensen, Knud Arne and Flindt, Vivi: \"Bournonville Ballet Technique Fifty Enchaînements\", London, Dance Books, 1992. Textbook (xxix + 111 pp., ill.) + Piano score (vi + 37 pp., ill.) + DVD eller VHS Video casette (Dance Video 3), (Textbook), (Piano score)\n\n•Jürgensen, Knud Arne: \"The Verdi Ballets\". Parma, Istituto Nazionale di Studi Verdiani, 1995. 398 pp. ill., \n\n•Jürgensen, Knud Arne: \"The Bournonville Tradition. The First Fifty Years 1829-1879. I: A Documentary Study. II: An annotated bibliography of the choreography and the music, the chronology, the performing history, and the sources\". London, Dance Books, 1997, 2 volumes, 201 + 468 pp., ill., (Volume I), (Volume II), (Volumes I & II)\n\n•Jürgensen, Knud Arne (ed.): \"August Bournonville: My dearly beloved Wife! Letters from France and Italy 1841\". Introduction and annotations by Knud Arne Jürgensen, Translated from the Danish by Patricia N. McAndrew (Dance Books, Alton, 2005, 192 pp., ill., \n\n•Jürgensen, Knud Arne (ed.): \"August Bournonville, Études Chorégraphiques (1848-1855- 1861)\". A cura di/Sous la direction de/Edited by Knud Arne Jürgensen e/et/and Francesca Falcone (Libreria Musicale Italiana, Lucca, 2005, 356 pp., ill., \n\n•Jürgensen, Knud Arne (ed.): \"Digterens & Balletmesterens luner, H.C. Andersens og August Bournonvilles brevveksling\" Udgivet med indledning og kommentar af Knud Arne Jürgensen (Gyldendal, København, 2005, 268 pp., ill., ).\n\n•Jürgensen, Knud Arne: \"Dramaturgiske Pennetegninger. Herman Bang som teateressayist. En antologi\". Udgivet og kommenteret af Knud Arne Jürgensen (Odense, Syddansk Universitetsforlag, 2007, I-XXIV + 452 pp., ill., ISBN 978-87- 7674-190-7\n\n•Jürgensen, Knud Arne: \"Et Folkesagn, 1.-3. akt\". Udgivet af Anne Ørbæk Jensen, Knud Arne Jürgensen og Niels Krabbe. Orchestral score, 2 volumes. (København, Niels W. Gade Works/Werke VI:2a + 2b/J. P. E. Hartmann Udvalgte Værker/Selected Works/Ausgevählte Werke IV:2, 2009, I-XLVI + 165 pp. + 163 s. & 363 pp., folio, ill., (volume 1), (volume 2), ISMN 979-0-706763-11-8 (volumes 1-2)).\n\n•Jürgensen, Knud Arne: \"Bifald og Bølgebryder. Frederik Schybergs teaterkritik. En antologi\". Udgivet og kommenteret af Knud Arne Jürgensen (Odense, Syddansk Universitetsforlag, 2009, I-XX + 382 pp., ill., \n\n•Jürgensen, Knud Arne: \"Teatrets fortællinger. Jens Kistrups teaterkritik. En Antologi\". Udgivet og kommenteret af Knud Arne Jürgensen (Odense, Syddansk Universitetsforlag, 2013, I-XL + 484 pp., ill., \n\n•Jürgensen, Knud Arne (ed.) : \"Il Valdemaro, Dramma per musica di Domenico Sarro (1726)\". Edizione critica a cura di Knud Arne Jürgensen. Roma, Analecta Romana Instituti Danici Supplementum XLIII. Edizione Quasar di Severino Tognon srl., juli 2013, Orchestral score, introduction, critical report, ill., LXXX + 605 pp., \n\nIn 2005 Jürgensen was awarded the Italian Order of Knights \"Cavaliere della Repubblica Italiana\" (OSSI, 30.5.2005) by the President of the Italian Republic.\n\nHe has also received a number of Danish and international grants and awards, among others The Verdi Prize (Premio Giuseppe Verdi) in 1989, Balletmaster Hans Beck's Memorial Award in 1998, Dance Perspective's The Lillian Moore Prize Award in 1999, and Her Majesty Queen Ingrid's Roman Grant for membership of the Danish Academy in Rome which he has been awarded three times.\n\n"}
{"id": "30832620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30832620", "title": "Kulmer Steig", "text": "Kulmer Steig\n\nThe Kulmer Steig is a byword for transport links from the Elbe valley over the eastern part of the Eastern Ore Mountains to Bohemian Chlumec u Chabařovic (German: \"Kulm\"), hence the name which means \"Kulm Trail\". It is an ancient road system of partly derelict and unmetalled historic transport routes. These historic long-distance routes have been uncovered today thanks to archaeological discoveries. The routes all head south from the Elbe valley between Dresden and Pirna and cross the Eastern Ore Mountains over mountain passes on the Saxon side between Fürstenwalde in the west and Oelsen in the east. The lowest crossings are located near Mohelnice from where they continue via Habartice and the Geiersberg as well as Krasný Les and further on over the Nollendorf Pass to Chlumec. The Kulmer Steig was an especially good transport route because the road cut a passage through untamed wilderness and 30 kilometres could be covered in a day.\n\nIn places it overlaps with the Old Kings Way (\"Alter Königsweg\" or \"Via Regia\") from Cologne to Kraków and Berlin to Prague and the Salt Road (\"Salzstraße\") from Halle to Prague.\n\nFrom a cursory examination of the geography one may wonder why the direct route from Dresden to Bohemia running south \nthrough the Ore Mountains was not preferred, or even a route along the banks of the Elbe.\nBoth routes had major disadvantages. The one from Dresden running south over the Freital Heights (\"Freitaler Höhen\") crosses the Ore Mountains near Zinnwald/Cínovec at a height of at least 850 metres above sea level (at \"Cínovec\"). The ascents and the descent on the Bohemian side are very steep in places and the climatic conditions, especially in winter, are rather severe, as users of the B 170 federal road still experience today in the Altenberg/Zinnwald area each winter. The riverbank route close to the Elbe, by contrast, runs through a canyon-like ravine in Bohemian Switzerland which, taking into account security considerations, was viewed as rather unsafe by travelling merchants. All the more because the sparsely populated region offered little protection. The castles in Saxon and Bohemian Switzerland, especially after the impoverishment of their noble owners in the 15th century, also tended to favour robber baronies rather than protection of the trading routes.\n\nThe use of the eastern part of the East Ore Mountains, despite being something of a detour, only had moderate gradients and more favourable weather conditions. The crest itself was only about 700 m above sea level at the Nakléřov Pass.\n\nDohna formed an outstandingly well protected entrance into the Mohelnice valley with its castles on the Robisch and the Reichsburg on the Schlossberg opposite and enabled a very safe passage and crossing of the lower Eastern Ore Mountains. From here there were several different route options:\n\n\nPirna as well, with its ford over the Elbe, offered a good entry point into this mountain range crossing, especially in the Late Middle Ages following the Dohna Feud, when Dohna lost its position to Pirna. However, this approach probably did not go via Zehista, but ran somewhat to the east via the plateau at Kohlberg and then reached Dohma before following the eastern route thereafter.\n\nIn addition to these major arteries, there was a multitude of branch routes, e. g.\n\n\nThese transport corridors were upgraded with the arrival of more modern modes of transport. For example, the Old and New Dresden to Teplitz Post Road. But even the present-day roads use these corridors, for example the A 17 motorway.\n\nThe location of some of the highways outlined above can be worked out even for prehistoric times. This is evinced, \"inter alia\", by archaeological finds (pottery, coins, even from Roman times, tools, weapons) from the Bronze (ca. 1800-750 BC) and Iron Age (750 BC - early AD). Even a few finds from the Neolithic (Stone Age ca 4500-1800 BC) show statistically significant associations with the above-described routes of the Kulmer Steig.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, the route served as a trading and military road. According to tradition, the Kulmer Steig was used as early as 805 and 856 by armies advancing into Bohemia. The first records of such use, however, date to 1040, when Margrave Eckhard II of Meissen with the Saxon army and a force under Archbishop Bardo of Mainz advanced into Bohemia and intervened in the dispute between Henry III and Bretislaus I The eastward expansion of Henry I may also have followed this route, especially since he also credited with the establishment of Dohna Castle in 930 (other sources identify Otto I as founding it around 960, perhaps this is a misunderstanding with regard to the castle on the Robisch and the Reichsburg opposite on the Schlossberg). It is recorded that Henry I founded Meissen Castle in 929 and in the same year moved on to Bohemia. Other armies were moved down this route by Wiprecht of Groitzsch in 1107 and Emperor Lothair III in 1126.\n\nThese transport routes also played an important role in the great wars of the Middle Ages. Armies in the Thirty Years' War, the Seven Years' War and during the wars of liberation from Napoleonic occupation, particularly around the year 1813, used these routes for crossing the Ore Mountains and regularly brought death, misery and devastation to the region.\n\nWith the introduction of road tolls in the 14th century and also the construction of post roads in the 18th century and modern roads since the early 19th century, the old road system described above, with its sunken roads shaped by centuries of heavy carts, disappeared.\n\nIn the later Middle Ages, these trade routes increasingly concentrated on the post roads (e.g. the Old and New Dresden to Teplitz Post Road) with their surveys and designations made by Adam Friedrich Zürner in 1712/13 on behalf of the Saxon Elector August the Strong.\n\nThe modern road network emerged in the 19th and 20th century. It is based, as mentioned above, on the described routes of the Kulmer Steig (e.g. \"Staatstraße\" 173 from Pirna to the border crossing at Bahratal; \"Kreisstraße\" 8760 from Pirna to Herbergen; \"Kreisstraße\" 8770 from Dohna via Köttewitz into the Seidewitz valley, \"Staatstraße\" 176 from Pirna through the Seidewitz valley to Liebstadt and on to Börnersdorf and Breitenau, and, of course, the A 17 autobahn, which runs parallel to the Old Dresden to Teplitz Post Road, etc.).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27706475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27706475", "title": "List of cities by country that have stolpersteine", "text": "List of cities by country that have stolpersteine\n\nThis is an incomplete list of the roughly 1000 cities and towns that have stolpersteine. It is organized in alphabetical order and by country. Where the number of stolpersteine is known or can be approximated, that information has been included, along with the first installation date, if known. Where the number of people deported by the Nazis is known, that information is included for comparison to the number of stolperstein memorials in that city.\n\n\"From the artist's own website:\"\nBy December 2013, the stolperstein project had realized more than 43,500 memorials in approximately 1000 cities and towns; many more have applied for them. Stolpersteine are found in Austria, Hungary, the Netherlands, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Russia, Croatia, France, Poland, Slovenia, Italy, Norway, Ukraine, Switzerland, Slovakia and Luxembourg.\n\nAs of August 20, 2014, there have been laid over 48,000 stolpersteine in 18 countries in Europe, making the project the world's largest memorial.\nOn 11 January 2015 Stolperstein No. 50.000 was installed in Turin, Italy for Eleonora Levi. \nIn May 2018 almost 69.000 stolpersteine in 21 countries in Europe have been installed.\nOn October 23, 2018 Stolperstein No. 70.000 was installed in Frankfurt, Germany for Willy Zimmerer .\n\n\n\n\n\n\"Regions\":\n\nThe first three stones were laid in Munkkiniemen Puistotie 18, Helsinki on June 2, 2018 (see: Stolpersteine in Finland)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOver 100,000 Jews and over 200 Romani from the Netherlands were killed by the Nazis.\n\n\n772 Jews were taken in Norway and sent to Germany. 34 of them survived. As of November 2014 there are 221 stolpersteine in 15 cities in Norway.\n\n\n\n\n\n44 stolpersteine were installed in Slovakia between 2012 and 2014 with the help of local organisation Antikomplex.sk.\n\n\n\n\n\nIn several cities there are imitations of Stolpersteine although the concept of Gunter Demnig is protected by copyright and registered as a Trademark all over Europe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1889530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1889530", "title": "List of monuments to Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington", "text": "List of monuments to Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington\n\nWellington Monument may refer to any one of the monuments to Arthur Wellesley, 1st Duke of Wellington, (1769 – 1852), a leading British political and military figure of the 19th century, particularly noted for his defeat of Napoleon in the Battle of Waterloo (1815).\n\nThis is a list of the monuments erected to him (in rough chronological order):\nThis monument overlooks the town of Wellington, from which Wellington's title was taken.\n\nThe Duke's horse, Copenhagen, has a monument over his grave at Stratfield Saye House, Hampshire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3812436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3812436", "title": "List of regions by past GDP (PPP)", "text": "List of regions by past GDP (PPP)\n\nThese are lists of regions and countries by their estimated real gross domestic product (GDP) in terms of purchasing power parity (PPP), the value of all final goods and services produced within a country/region in a given year. GDP dollar (international dollar) estimates here are derived from PPP estimates.\n\nIn the absence of sufficient data for nearly all economies until well into the 19th century, past GDP cannot be calculated, but at best only roughly estimated. In a first step, economic historians try to reconstruct the GDP per capita for a given political or geographical entity from the meagre evidence. This value is then multiplied by estimated population size, another determinant for which as a rule only little ancient data is available.\n\nA key notion in the whole process is that of subsistence, the income level which is necessary for sustaining one's life. Since pre-modern societies, by modern standards, were characterized by a very low degree of urbanization and a large majority of people working in the agricultural sector, economic historians prefer to express income in cereal units. To achieve comparability over space and time, these numbers are then converted into monetary units such as International Dollars, a third step which leaves a relatively wide margin of interpretation.\n\nThe formula thus is: GDP (PPP) = GDP per capita (PPP) x population size\n\nIt should be stressed that, historically speaking, population size is the far more important multiplier in the equation. This is because, in contrast to industrial economies, the average income ceiling of premodern agrarian societies was quite low everywhere, possibly not higher than twice the subsistence level. Therefore, the total GDP as given below primarily reflects the respective historical population size, and is much less indicative of contemporary living standards than, for example, estimations of past GDP per capita are.\n\nAccording to the 20th-century macroeconomist Paul Bairoch, a pioneer in historical economic analysis, \nRather, Bairoch advocates a formula combining GNP per capita and total GNP to give a better measure of the economic performance of national economies.\n\nIn his 1995 book \"Economics and World History\", economic historian Paul Bairoch gave the following estimates in terms of 1960 US dollars, for GNP from 1750 to 1990, comparing what are today the Third World (Asia, Africa, Latin America) and the First World (Europe, North America, Japan).\n\nThe following estimates are taken exclusively from the 2007 monograph \"Contours of the World Economy, 1–2030 AD\" by the British economist Angus Maddison.\n\nMaddison' assumptions have been criticized and admired by academics and journalists. By Bryan Haig, who has characterized Maddison's figures for 19th century Australia as \"inaccurate and irrelevant\", by W. W. Rostow, according to whom \"this excessive macroeconomic bias also causes him (Maddison) to mis-date, in my view, the beginning of what he calls the capitalist era at 1820 rather than, say, the mid-1780s.\"\n\nW. J. MacPherson has described Maddison's work on India and Pakistan of using \"dubious comparative data.\" Maddison's estimates have also been critically reviewed and revised by the Italian economists Giovanni Federico and Elio Lo Cascio/Paolo Malanima (see below).\n\nHowever, economist and journalist Evan Davis has praised Maddison's research by citing it as a \"fantastic publication\" and that it was \"based on the detailed scholarship of the world expert on historical economic data Angus Maddison.\" He also added that \"One shouldn't read the book in the belief the statistics are accurate to 12 decimal places.\"\n\nThe following estimates were made by the economic historian Paul Bairoch. Contrary to most other estimates on this page, the GNP (at market prices) is given here in 1960 US dollars. Unlike Maddison, Bairoch allows for the fluctuation of borders, basing his estimates mostly on the historical boundaries at the given points in time.\n\nThe following estimates are taken from a revision of Angus Maddison's numbers for the whole of Europe by the Italian economists Elio Lo Cascio and Paolo Malanima. According to their calculations, the basic level of European GDP (PPP) was historically higher, but its increase was less pronounced.\n\nAngus Maddison's above GDP estimates for China refer to the following empires:\n\nAngus Maddison's above GDP estimates for India (including modern Pakistan and Bangladesh) refer to the following empires:\nGoedele De Keersmaeker estimated the GDP of the British Empire using Angus Maddison's data. Keersmaeker estimated that the British Empire's share of world GDP was 24.28% in 1870 and 19.7% in 1913. The empire's largest economy in 1870 was British India with a 12.15% share of world GDP, followed by the United Kingdom with a 9.03% share. The empire's largest economy in 1913 was the United Kingdom with a 8.22% share of world GDP, followed by British India with a 7.47% share.\n\nMuch work in estimating past GDP has been done in the study of the Roman economy, following the pioneering studies by Keith Hopkins (1980) and Raymond Goldsmith (1984). The estimates by Peter Temin, Angus Maddison, Branko Milanović and Peter Fibiger Bang follow the basic method established by Goldsmith, varying mainly only in their set of initial numbers; these are then stepped up to estimations of the expenditure checked by those on the income side. Walter Scheidel/Steven Friesen determine GDP on the relationship between certain significant economic indicators which were historically found to be plausible; two independent control assumptions provide the upper and lower limit of the probable size of the Roman GDP.\n\nThe GDP per capita of the Byzantine Empire, the continuation of the Roman Empire in the east, has been estimated by the World Bank economist Branko Milanović to range between $680 and 770 (in 1990 International Dollars) at its peak around 1000 AD, that is the reign of Basil II. The Byzantine population size at the time is estimated to have been 12 to 18 million. This would yield a total GDP somewhere between $8,160 and 13,860 million.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3660400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3660400", "title": "Lyndal Roper", "text": "Lyndal Roper\n\nLyndal Roper, (born 28 May 1956) is an Australian historian and academic. She was appointed Regius Professor of Modern History at the University of Oxford in 2011. She is a fellow of Oriel College, an honorary fellow of Merton College, Oxford, and the author of a variety of groundbreaking works on witchcraft.\n\nRoper was educated at the University of Melbourne, the University of Tübingen, and King's College London.\n\nShe was previously a fellow and tutor at Balliol College, Oxford. She is editor of the historical journal \"Past & Present\".\n\nIn 2004 Roper published \"Witch Craze: Terror and Fantasy in Baroque Germany\", a study of the Burning Times of persecution of people as witches in Germany in the 16th and 17th centuries in an attempt to understand why it took place at that particular time, why it was not geographically universal, and what kinds of fears, fantasies, and confessions were involved. As she points out, any historical explanation should, in part, explain \"why the witch hunts were so heavily concentrated in the German speaking lands of the Holy Roman Empire, why so many of the victims were women\" (around 80%) with – in Germany - \"a shocking preponderance of old women\", which given the life expectancy of the time, meant over 40.\n\nIn this study, Roper suggests various ways of making sense of the historical record, saying that she was surprised because she began the study expecting to look at confessions of sex with the Devil, flying to the Sabbath, or Satanic rituals, and while these facets were there, they did not predominate.\nIn fact, as she discovered \"the fears that surrounded witches were not just about the deaths of infants and the early weeks of motherhood, but featured animals and crops, in short, fertility itself\". The society in which these people lived was one at subsistence level, with a precarious economy, and years of poor harvests. \"Marriage often had to be postponed, and many could never afford to wed. To be a fertile wife with plenty of children was to be honoured and respected. To be an old woman frequently meant poverty, infirmity, and humiliating dependence on the young.\" The image of the witch across Europe was remarkably consistent: \"she was an old woman, and she attacked young children\".\n\nDuring this period, Europe was recovering from the Little Ice Age, which lasted from the late 16th to the mid 17th century, \"a combination of perishingly cold winters and wet summers and autumns which brought bad harvests as the grain rotted\". Everywhere there was \"hunger, disease and death\". Apocalyptic visions of a society \"under assault from the devil made sense\". The peasants had \"fears of sick cows, outbreaks of hail, mysterious insects and various diseases\". To try to stem the problem of a greater population than food supply, it was now that governments enacted regulations forbidding marriages unless couples could support themselves, and introducing legislation to control marriage.\n\nHow could the old woman support herself, in a society where women's status was closely tied to their reproductive capacity? Invariable, the old women acted as midwives, helped the mothers with the infants, and could also milk cows; in these capacities, they were placed in the worst possible place when children died, and milk dried up; if men were impotent, it was felt that this came from the baleful presence of the infertile woman. And fears of fertility also come into the pictures of the time, where a common theme of the fantasy links the post-menopausal woman with a young man whom she sexually desires even though she cannot give him children; she concludes that the terror about failure in fertility was one of the forces driving the persecution, which merged with the fantastic confessions (under torture) of Satanic rites.\n\nKathryn Hughes, reviewing the book, noted that Roper's \"particular triumph is to find a way of bridging an anthropological analysis rooted in the kith and kin networks of the 17th century and a psycho-analytical one forged in the bourgeois household of the 19th.\"\n\nOne of the most controversial conclusions of her book, but in agreement with modern historical scholarship, is that most witch prosecutions were not initiated by the Church but by the neighbors.\n\nIn her book \"Oedipus and the Devil\" (1994), Roper examines the actions of both accusers and accused during the witch hunts, examining the historical actors through the use of psychological and psychoanalytic examination of their actions, an approach known as psychohistory. In the book, Roper asserts that \"historical interpretation... nearly always depends at base on the assumption of a measure of resemblance\" between ourselves and historical actors and that recognising some enduring universal human qualities of the mind stands to strengthen interpretations of those people's world.\n\nIn 2011, Roper was elected a Fellow of the British Academy (FBA). She is also an elected Fellow of the Royal Historical Society (FRHistS).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15450275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15450275", "title": "Mark Tribe", "text": "Mark Tribe\n\nMark Tribe (born 1966, San Francisco, California) is an American artist who lives and works in New York City. He is the founder of Rhizome, a not-for-profit arts organization based in New York City.\n\nIn 2013, he was appointed chair of the MFA program of the School of Visual Arts in New York City. Formerly, he was Assistant Professor of Modern Culture and Media Studies at Brown University, Director of the Digital Media Center at the Columbia University School of the Arts, and Visiting Assistant Professor and Artist in Residence at Williams College. He is the author of \"The Port Huron Project: Reenactments of Historic Protest Speeches\" (Charta, 2010) and the co-author of \"New Media Art\" (Taschen, 2006). He received an MFA in Visual Art from the University of California, San Diego in La Jolla, California in 1994 and an AB in Visual Art from Brown University in 1990.\n\nTribe's drawings, performances, installations and photographs often deal with social and political issues. His work has been featured in solo exhibitions at the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C.; Momenta Art in Brooklyn, New York; Los Angeles Contemporary Exhibitions (LACE) in Los Angeles, California; and DiverseWorks in Houston, Texas. His work has been included in group exhibitions at the Queens Museum in New York City; the Palais de Tokyo in Paris; the Menil Collection in Houston; Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris; SITE Santa Fe in Santa Fe, New Mexico; the San Diego Museum of Art in San Diego, California; Museo de Antioquia in Medellin, Colombia; Montclair Art Museum in Montclair, New Jersey; and the DeCordova Museum and Sculpture Park in Lincoln, Massachusetts.\n\nIn 1996, Tribe founded Rhizome, a not-for-profit arts organization that supports and provides a platform for new media art. Tribe has curated exhibitions at the New Museum of Contemporary Art in New York City, the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art and inSite_05 in San Diego, California and Tijuana, Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "1630504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1630504", "title": "Mdina", "text": "Mdina\n\nMdina ( ; , , , , ), also known by its titles ' or ', is a fortified city in the Northern Region of Malta, which served as the island's capital from antiquity to the medieval period. The city is still confined within its walls, and has a population of just under 300, but it is contiguous with the town of Rabat, which takes its name from the Arabic word for suburb, and has a population of over 11,000 (as of March 2014).\n\nThe city was founded as Maleth in around the 8th century BC by Phoenician settlers, and was later renamed Melite by the Romans. Ancient Melite was larger than present-day Mdina, and it was reduced to its present size during the Byzantine or Arab occupation of Malta. During the latter period, the city adopted its present name, which derives from the Arabic word . The city remained the capital of Malta throughout the Middle Ages, until the arrival of the Order of St. John in 1530, when Birgu became the administrative centre of the island. Mdina experienced a period of decline over the following centuries, although it saw a revival in the early 18th century. At this point, it acquired several Baroque features, although it did not lose its medieval character.\n\nMdina remained the centre of the Maltese nobility and religious authorities (and property continues to largely be passed down from families and from generation to generation), but it never regained its pre-1530 importance, giving rise to the popular nickname the \"Silent City\" by both locals and visitors. Mdina is on the tentative list of UNESCO World Heritage Sites, and it is now one of the main tourist attractions in Malta.\n\nThe plateau on which Mdina is built has been inhabited since prehistory, and by the Bronze Age it was a place of refuge since it was naturally defensible. The Phoenicians colonized Malta in around the 8th century BC, and they founded the city of Maleth on this plateau. It was taken over by the Roman Republic in 218 BC, becoming known as Melite. The Punic-Roman city was about three times the size of present-day Mdina, extending into a large part of modern Rabat.\n\nAccording to Early Modern interpretation the Acts of the Apostles, when Paul the Apostle was shipwrecked on Malta in 60 AD, he was greeted by Publius, the governor of Melite, and he cured his sick father. According to tradition, the population of Melite converted to Christianity, and Publius became the first Bishop of Malta and then Bishop of Athens before being martyred in 112 AD. \n\nVery few remains of the Punic-Roman city survive today. The most significant are the ruins of the Domvs Romana, in which several well-preserved mosaics, statues and other remains were discovered. Remains of the podium of a Temple of Apollo, fragments of the city walls and some other sites have also been excavated.\n\nAt some point following the fall of the Western Roman Empire, a retrenchment was built within the city, reducing it to its present size. This was done to make the city's perimeter more easily defensible, and similar reductions in city sizes were common around the Mediterranean region in the early Middle Ages. Although it was traditionally assumed that the retrenchment was built by the Arabs, it has been suggested that it was actually built by the Byzantine Empire in around the 8th century, when the threat from the Arabs increased.\n\nIn 870, Byzantine Melite, which was ruled by governor Amros (probably Ambrosios), was besieged by Aghlabids led by Halaf al-Hādim. He was killed in the fighting, and Sawāda Ibn Muḥammad was sent from Sicily to continue the siege following his death. The duration of the siege is unknown, but it probably lasted for some weeks or months. After Melite fell to the invaders, the inhabitants were massacred, the city was destroyed and its churches were looted. Marble from Melite's churches was used to build the castle of Sousse.\n\nAccording to Al-Himyarī, Malta remained almost uninhabited until it was resettled in 1048 or 1049 by a Muslim community and their slaves, who built a settlement called Medina on the site of Melite. Archaeological evidence suggests that the city was already a thriving Muslim settlement by the beginning of the 11th century, so 1048–49 might be the date when the city was officially founded and its walls were constructed. The layout of the new city was completely different to that of ancient Melite. Mdina still has features typical of a medina, a legacy of the period of Arab rule.\n\nThe Byzantines besieged Medina in 1053–54, but were repelled by its defenders. The city surrendered peacefully to Roger I of Sicily after a short siege in 1091, and Malta was subsequently incorporated into the County and later the Kingdom of Sicily, being dominated by a succession of feudal lords. A castle known as the \"Castellu di la Chitati\" was built on the southeast corner of the city near the main entrance, probably on the site of an earlier Byzantine fort.\n\nThe population of Malta during the fifteenth century was about 10,000, with town life limited to Mdina, Birgu and the Gozo Citadel. Mdina was comparatively small and partly uninhabited and by 1419, it was already outgrown by its suburb, Rabat. Under Aragonese rule, local government rested on the \"Università\", a communal body based in Mdina, which collected taxation and administered the islands' limited resources. At various points during the fifteenth century, this town council complained to its Aragonese overlords that the islands were at the mercy of the sea and the saracens.\n\nThe city withstood a siege by Hafsid invaders in 1429. While the exact number of casualties or Maltese who were carried into slavery is unknown, the islands suffered depopulation in this raid.\n\nWhen the Order of Saint John took over in Malta in 1530, the nobles ceremoniously handed over the keys of the city to Grand Master Philippe Villiers de L'Isle-Adam, but the Order settled in Birgu and Mdina lost its status as capital city. In the 1540s, the fortifications began to be upgraded during the magistracy of Juan de Homedes y Coscon, and in 1551 the city withstood a brief Ottoman attack.\n\nDuring the Great Siege of Malta in 1565, Mdina was the base of the Order's cavalry, which made occasional sorties on the invading Ottomans. On 7 August 1565, the cavalry attacked the unprotected Ottoman field hospital, which led in the invaders abandoning a major assault on the main fortifications in Birgu and Senglea. The Ottomans attempted to take Mdina in September so as to winter there, but abandoned their plans when the city fired its cannon, leading them to believe that it had ammunition to spare. After the siege, Maltese military engineer Girolamo Cassar drew up plans to reduce Mdina's size by half and turning it into a fortress, but these were never implemented due to protests by the city's nobles. The fortifications were again upgraded in the mid-17th century, when the large De Redin Bastion was built at the centre of the land front.\n\nMdina suffered severe damage during the 1693 Sicily earthquake, although no casualties were reported. The 13th-century Cathedral of St. Paul was partially destroyed, and it was rebuilt by Lorenzo Gafà in the Baroque style between 1697 and 1703.\n\nOn 3 November 1722, newly elected Grand Master António Manoel de Vilhena issued orders for the restoration and renovation of Mdina. This renovation was entrusted to the French architect and military engineer Charles François de Mondion, who introduced strong French Baroque elements into what was still a largely medieval city. At this point, large parts of the fortifications and the city entrance were completely rebuilt. The remains of the \"Castellu di la Chitati\" were demolished to make way for Palazzo Vilhena, while the main gate was walled up and a new Mdina Gate was built nearby. Several public buildings were also built, including the Banca Giuratale and the Corte Capitanale. The last major addition to the Mdina fortifications was Despuig Bastion, which was completed in 1746.\n\nOn 10 June 1798, Mdina was captured by French forces without much resistance during the French invasion of Malta. A French garrison remained in the city, but a Maltese uprising broke out on 2 September of that year. The following day, rebels entered the city through a sally port and massacred the garrison of 65 men. These events marked the beginning of a two-year uprising and blockade, and the Maltese set up a National Assembly which met at Mdina's Banca Giuratale. The rebels were successful, and in 1800 the French surrendered and Malta became a British protectorate.\n\nFrom 1883 to 1931, Mdina was linked with Valletta by the Malta Railway.\n\nToday, Mdina is one of Malta's major tourist attractions, hosting about 750,000 tourists a year. No cars (other than a limited number of residents, emergency vehicles, wedding cars and horses) are allowed in Mdina, partly why it has earned the nickname 'the Silent City'. The city displays an unusual mix of Norman and Baroque architecture, including several palaces, most of which serve as private homes.\n\nAn extensive restoration of the city walls was undertaken between 2008 and 2016.\n\nThe following are a number of historic and monumental buildings around Mdina:\n\nFounded in 2006, the Mdina Knights F.C. play in the third division league of the Malta Football Association.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36856453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36856453", "title": "Michael Omolewa", "text": "Michael Omolewa\n\nMichael Abiola Omolewa is a Nigerian diplomat, scholar, education historian, and civil servant.\n\nFrom September 2003 to October 2005, he served as the 32nd president of the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). While president, Omolewa led UNESCO to adopt the International Declaration on Human Genetic Data and the Convention for the Safeguarding of Intangible Cultural Heritage. From January 2000 to August 2009, Omolewa served as permanent delegate and ambassador of Nigeria to UNESCO.\n\nOmolewa is an emeritus professor of adult education at the University of Ibadan. He is a former deputy chair of the governing board of the Commonwealth of Learning in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Omolewa is also a member of the Commonwealth Advisory Council on Teacher Mobility, Recruitment and Migrations in London.\n\nIn September 2008, Omolewa was given the President's award for distinguished contribution to world peace and solidarity by Bulgaria's President Georgi Sedefchov Parvanov. Also during 2008, Omolewa was inducted into the University of Oklahoma's International Adult and Continuing Education Hall of Fame.\n\nHe is a board member of ILI: International Literacy Institute – within Graduate School of Education, established by UNESCO and the University of Pennsylvania: United States of America in 1994; plus Member, Board of Governors: Christ the Redeemer’s College, Sagamu; as well as Deputy chairman of the board of Governors: Christ the Redeemer's College, United Kingdom; including being Board of Trustees Member at Babcock University. Omolewa is also on the Editorial Boards of New York-based International Journal of Higher Education and Washington D.C. based ASALH: Association for the Study of African American Life and History's Journal of African American History; including Journal of Research in International Education and International Journal of Lifelong Education.\n\nAt the age of ten, Omolewa's believing father: Daniel Omilusi, a Senior Chief of the Ipoti-Ekiti region of Nigeria, granted some missionaries; including David Babcock – first Adventist missionary to West Africa, permission to spiritually and educationally mentor young Michael, who was born as 11th child in Omilusi's large family; and was brought up with the prestige that Africa gives the son of a village chief or leader.\n\nThis move to have him mentored by missionaries gave Omolewa the opportunity to see his future with God given purpose, hope, perseverance, vision and discipline. Born on Tuesday 1 April 1941 in Ipoti-Ekiti, Ekiti State: Nigeria, Omolewa attended Ibadan Grammar School, Ibadan from 1955 to 1958. Subsequently, he schooled at Ekiti Parapo College, Ido-Ekiti from 1959 to 1960; and later went to Christ's School Ado Ekiti from 1962 to 1963.\n\nThe University of Ibadan was Omolewa's next point of call, from 1964 to 1973. While there, he:\n\n\nFor a year, from September 1975 to September 1976, Omolewa was at Faculty of Education King's College London. Later on, from September 1983 to September 1984, he studied at Adult education department of Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada based University of British Columbia – with an October 1983 to November 1983 attachment to Athabasca University. Also, for more studies, UNESCO Institute for Education, Hamburg: West Germany welcomed Omolewa from October to November 1988. From May to June 1991, he took an Advanced Christian Leadership course at Haggai Institute, Singapore.\n\n\nProfessor Omolewa served as Dean of the Faculty of Education at the University of Ibadan; Nigeria's oldest University, from 1985 to 1987. He was Chairman of the Committee of Deans of Education of Nigerian Universities from 1986 to 1987. Subsequently, from 1987 to 1990, he served as Head of Nigeria's oldest Department of Adult Education; and was reappointed to a second term from 1994 to 1997. During his tenure, the Adult Education Department was awarded the UNESCO International Reading Association Literacy Prize in 1989. He also led his Education Faculty's research team to become runner-up for the UNESCO Institute for Education (UIE) International Literacy Research Award in 1992. From April 1991 to April 1993 Omolewa was chairman, General Studies Programme University of Ibadan; and from 1979 to 1999, he was Member of Senate at the same University.\n\nIn 1994, Professor Omolewa became a Member of the Nigerian National Commission for UNESCO, and subsequently, the Commission's chairman of the Education Sector. He was a Consultant on educational issues to the British Council, USAID, UNICEF, World Bank and UNESCO; including being among the team that prepared foundational, background document for the United Nations Literacy Decade.\n\nIn January 2000, President Olusegun Obasanjo first appointed Omolewa to a 5-year term as Permanent Delegate and Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to UNESCO in Paris. Consequently, before he left for France, Omolewa took leave of absence as a professor at University of Ibadan. For his services to Nigeria and humankind worldwide, President Obasanjo, in January 2005, reappointed Omolewa to a second 5-year term as Permanent Delegate and Ambassador of Nigeria – to enable him complete his tenure as President of UNESCO's General Conference – to which he had been earlier elected in September 2003.\n\nUnder Omolewa's servant leadership plus efforts as Ambassador and Permanent Delegate to UNESCO, Nigeria was, in 2007, proposed for 6 additional World Heritage Sites – namely: Arochukwu Long Juju of Aro Confederacy: Igbo Land; Surame Cultural Landscape; Oke Idanre: Idanre Hill; Ogbunike Caves; Ancient Kano City Walls and Associated Sites, Kano and Alok Ikom Stone Monoliths.\n\nAlso, Omolewa facilitated the nomination and inscribing, in July 2005, of Osun Osogbo Sacred Grove as a UNESCO World Heritage Site; as well as UNESCO's establishment of a Category 2 Institute for African Culture and International Understanding in Abeokuta, Nigeria during April 2009.\n\nOn 29 September 2003, Omolewa, as Ambassador and Permanent Delegate of Nigeria to UNESCO became the first West African to be elected President of the General Conference (GC) of UNESCO for the following two years. The GC of UNESCO is the highest decision making and governing body of that United Nations specialised agency.\n\nAccordingly, the General Conference consists of representatives of the 195 States Members of UNESCO and 8 Associates. The GC meets every 2 years; and is attended by Member States and Associate Members, together with observers for non-Member States, intergovernmental organisations and NGOs: non-governmental organisations. Each country has one vote, irrespective of its size or the extent of its contribution to the budget of UNESCO.\n\nThe General Conference of UNESCO determines the policies and the main areas of work of the Organization. Its duty is to establish programmes and budget of UNESCO. It also elects members of the Executive Board of UNESCO and appoints, every four years, the Director-General of UNESCO. The working languages of UNESCO's General Conference are: Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian and Spanish.\n\nOmolewa has the following recognitions, awards, prizes and honours:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51560292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51560292", "title": "Michel Debidour", "text": "Michel Debidour\n\nMichel Debidour (born 1947) is a French historian and archaeologist.\n\nThe son of hellenist Victor-Henry Debidour, he joined the École Normale Supérieure in 1966, obtained his Agrégation de Lettres Classiques in 1970 and was a member of the French School at Athens from 1972 to 1977. \n\nHis research focuses on the history and economy of Greek cities, the history of technology and cryptography; he is a specialist of the of Thasos.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1038798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1038798", "title": "Multitudes (journal)", "text": "Multitudes (journal)\n\nMultitudes is a French philosophical, political and artistic monthly journal founded in 2000 by Yann Moulier-Boutang. It is thematically situated in the theoretical framework of the seminal work \"Empire\" by Antonio Negri and Michael Hardt. The journal, like the book, focuses on the further elaboration of the philosophical and political thought of the Italian \"operaismo\", but seems also to rest on Foucault, Althusser, and Deleuze's thought. It is a successor to the review Futur Antérieur edited by Jean-Marie Vincent (1934-2004) and Toni Negri, at the dep. of political science - University Vincennes Paris 8. It is a member of the Eurozine network.\n\n\"Multitudes's\" name comes from the Spinozist eponymic concept. It has been thought by Toni Negri as an alternative to the classic conception of the people, class consciousness, or nation-state. It publishes a lot on themes relating to the information society and the knowledge economy, supporting in particular the thesis of a \"cognitive labour\" and \"affective labour\" which can not be measured by standard means of labor-time, and also insists on the cooperative aspects of production in modern society. For this reason and others, it tends to argue in favour of a guaranteed minimum income.\n\nContents published by \"Multitudes\" are mostly in French, although some articles are translated (in English, Spanish, etc.) and are under a Creative Commons license.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20174054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20174054", "title": "Museo Chileno de Arte Precolombino", "text": "Museo Chileno de Arte Precolombino\n\nThe Museo Chileno de Arte Precolombino (English: \"Chilean Museum of Pre-Columbian Art\") is an art museum dedicated to the study and display of pre-Columbian artworks and artifacts from Central and South America. The museum is located in the city centre of Santiago, the capital of Chile. The museum was founded by the Chilean architect and antiquities collector Sergio Larraín García-Moreno, who had sought premises for the display and preservation of his private collection of pre-Columbian artefacts acquired over the course of nearly fifty years. With the support of Santiago's municipal government at the time, García-Moreno secured the building and established the museum's curatorial institution. The museum first opened in December 1981 and was closed from 2011 to 2013 for renovation.\n\nThe museum is housed in the Palacio de la Real Aduana that was constructed between 1805 and 1807. It is located a block west of the Plaza de Armas and close to the Palacio de los Tribunales de Justicia de Santiago and the Former National Congress Building.\n\nItems in the museum's collections are drawn from the major pre-Columbian culture areas of Mesoamerica, Intermediate / Isthmo-Colombian, Pan-Caribbean, Amazonia and the Andean. The museum has over 3,000 people representing almost 100 different groups of people. The collection ranges from about 10,000 years. The original collection was acquired based on the aesthetic quality of the objects, instead of their scientific or historical context. The collection is broken up into four areas:\n\n"}
{"id": "28512244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28512244", "title": "Nick Jardine", "text": "Nick Jardine\n\nNicholas Jardine FBA (born 4 September 1943) is a British mathematician, philosopher of science and its history, historian of astronomy and natural history, and amateur mycologist. He is Emeritus Professor at the Department of History and Philosophy of Science (HPS) at the University of Cambridge.\n\nJardine was educated at Monkton Combe School in Somerset and read natural sciences at King's College, Cambridge. He then worked as a King's College and Royal Society Research Fellow on the automation of classification and information retrieval and its applications to biological taxonomy and diagnosis. In 1975 he moved to Darwin College, Cambridge and to the Department of History and Philosophy of Science. Since then he has developed a question-based pragmatic philosophy of science (inspired by the work of Ian Hacking), as well as studying the history of early-modern astronomy and natural history, and reflecting on the methodology of the history of the sciences. From 1987–2011 he was Senior Editor of Studies in History and Philosophy of Science and from 1998 of Studies in History and Philosophy of Biological and Biomedical Sciences. Since his retirement in 2010 he has been Senior Consultant to the Cambridge Scientific Heritage Project (2010–13) and principal investigator of the project Diagrams, Figures and the Transformation of Astronomy, 1450–1650 (2008–14) http://www.astronomicalimages.group.cam.ac.uk\n\nJardine was a founding member in 1988 of the popular research seminar \"The Cabinet of Natural History (Cambridge Group for the History of Natural History and the Environmental Sciences)\". This is organised by staff and students of the Department of History and Philosophy of Science, and in term time it holds weekly seminars led by academic speakers. Jardine is a keen amateur mycologist and for over twenty years has led the annual HPS fungus hunt.\n\n"}
{"id": "57015702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57015702", "title": "Nihad Kreševljaković", "text": "Nihad Kreševljaković\n\nNihad Kreševljaković (born 24 February 1977) is a Bosnian historian, producer, screenwriter and director of the Sarajevo War Theatre. \n\nKreševljaković was born in Sarajevo, SFR Yugoslavia. He enrolled at the University of Sarajevo, Faculty of Philosophy where he studied history. He graduated in 1999, before earning his post-graduate degree from the same institution four years later. He further studied Comparative literature. He has worked as a producer for the MESS International Theatre Festival, before being named director of the festival. In 2011 he founded the Videoarhiv documentary film production company with his brother Sead. In 2012 he was named director of the Sarajevo War Theatre. He has worked as a screenwriter on numerous film projects. \n\nHis grandfather Hamdija Kreševljaković was a renowned Bosnian historian. His father Muhamed Kreševljaković was the war-time mayor of Sarajevo. His twin brother Sead is a journalist, film producer and the honorary consule of San Marino in Bosnia and Herzegovina. \n"}
{"id": "57965596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57965596", "title": "Origins of ecclesiastical vestments", "text": "Origins of ecclesiastical vestments\n\nThe liturgical vestments of the Christian churches grew out of normal civil clothing, but the dress of church leaders began to be differentiated as early as the 4th century. By the end of the 13th century the forms used in the Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox churches had become established, while the Reformation led to changes in Protestant churches from the 16th century onward.\n\nThe vestments of the Catholic Church, East and West, developed out of the various articles of everyday dress worn by citizens of the Greco-Roman world under the Roman Empire. The officers of the Church during the first few centuries of its existence were content to officiate in the dress of civil life, though their garments were expected to be scrupulously clean and of decent quality. The few scattered references in contemporary records to the dress of the clergy all point to this as the only recognized rule. Thus in the 37th of the 4th-century \"Canons of Hippolytus\" we read: \"As often as the bishops would partake of the Mysteries, the presbyters and deacons shall gather round him clad in white, quite particularly clean clothes, more beautiful than those of the rest of the people.\" Thus, too, St Jerome, in his commentary on Ezekiel xliv. 19, wrote that \"We, too, ought not to enter the Holy of Holies in our everyday garments ... when they have become defiled from the use of ordinary life, but with a clean conscience, and in clean garments, hold in our hands the Sacrament of the Lord.\"\n\nWhen, in the year 289, St Cyprian was led to martyrdom, he wore, according to Eusebius, an under tunic (\"linea\"), an upper tunic (\"dalmatica\", \"tunica\") and mantle (\"lacerna\", \"byrrus\"). This was the ordinary type of the civil costume of the time. The tunica, a loose sack-like tunic with a hole for the head, was the innermost garment worn by all classes of Roman citizens under the Republic and Empire. It was either sleeveless (\"colobium\") or sleeved (\"tunica manicata\" or \"manuleata\"), and originally fell about to the knee, but later on reached to the ankles (\"tunica talaris\"). St Augustine said that to wear \"talares et tunicas manicatas\" was a disgrace among the ancient Romans, but that in his own day it was no longer so considered in the case of persons of good birth. The tunica was originally of white wool, but in the 3rd century it began to be made of linen, and from the 4th century was always of linen.\n\nAbout the 6th century the long \"tunica alba\" went out of fashion in civil life, but it was retained in the services of the Church and developed into the various forms of the liturgical alb and surplice. The \"tunica dalmatica\" was a long, sleeved upper tunic, originating, as its name implies, in Dalmatia, and first becoming fashionable in Rome during the 2nd century; it is the origin of the liturgical dalmatic and tunicle. Another over-dress of the Romans was the \"paenula\", a cloak akin to the current Spanish \"poncho\", a large piece of material with a hole for the head to go through, hanging in ample folds round the body. This was originally worn only by slaves, soldiers and other people of low degree; in the 3rd century, however, it was adopted by fashionable people as a convenient riding or travelling cloak and finally, by the sumptuary law of 382 it was prescribed as the proper everyday dress of senators, instead of the military \"chlamys\", the toga being reserved for state occasions. This was the origin of the principal liturgical vestment, the chasuble.\n\nAs late as the 6th century the garments described above were common both to the clergy and laity, and, so far as their character was concerned, were used both in the liturgy and in everyday life. Meanwhile, however, a certain development had taken place. By the 4th century the garments worn at liturgical functions had been separated from those in ordinary use, though still identical in form. It is in the 4th century, too, that the first distinctive vestment makes its appearance, the (\"\") worn by all bishops in the East; in the 5th century we find this in use at Rome under the name of \"pallium\", as the distinctive ornament of the pope (see the mosaic image of Honorius I). About the same time the \"orarium\", or stole, becomes fixed in liturgical use. The main development and definition of the ecclesiastical vestments, however, took place between the 6th and the 9th centuries. The secular fashions altered with changes of taste, but the Church retained the dress with the other traditions of the Roman Empire. At Rome, especially, where the popes had succeeded to a share of the power and pretensions of the caesars of the West, the accumulation of ecclesiastical vestments symbolized a very special dignity: in the second quarter of the 9th century the pope, when fully vested, wore a \"camisia\" (chemise) girdled, an alb (\"linea\") girdled, an amice (\"anagolaium\"), a tunicle (\"dalmatica minor\"), a dalmatic (\"dalmatica major\"), stole (\"orarium\"), chasuble (\"planeta\") and pallium. With the exception of the pallium, this was also the costume of the Roman deacons. By this time, moreover, the liturgical character of the vestments was so completely established that they were no longer worn instead of, but over, the ordinary dress.\n\nHitherto the example of the Roman Church had exercised no exclusive determining influence on ritual development even in the West. The popes had, from time to time, sent the pallium or the dalmaticspecifically Roman vestmentsas gifts of honour to various distinguished prelates. Britain, converted by a Roman mission, had adopted the Roman use, and English missionaries had carried this into the newly Christianized parts of Germany, but the great Churches of Spain and Gaul preserved their own traditions in vestments as in other matters. From the 9th century onwards, however, this was changed, and everywhere in the West the Roman use ousted the regional uses.\n\nThis change synchronized with the revival of the Western Empire under Charlemagne, a revival which necessarily gave an impulse to the claims of the Holy See. The adoption of the Roman liturgical dress had, however, at most an indirect connection with these claims. Charlemagne was active in prescribing the adoption of the Roman use; but this was only as part of his general policy in the organization of his empire. A renovation of the Galilean Church was not the least crying need; and, in view of the confusion of rites (Gallican, Gothic, Roman, Ambrosian) in the Frankish empire, Charlemagne recognized that this innovation could only be effectually carried out by a closer connection with Rome in ritual as in other matters. Charlemagne's activity in this respect was, in effect, only the completion of a process that had been going on since the 6th century.\n\nWhatever effect the reinvigoration of the papacy may have had in hastening the process, the original impulse towards the adoption of the Roman rite had proceeded, not from Rome, but from Spain and Gaul. It was the natural result of the lively interchange between the Churches of these countries and the Holy See. Nor was the process of assimilation by any means one-sided. If Spain and Gaul borrowed from Rome, they also exercised a reciprocal influence on the Roman use. A large proportion of the names of the liturgical vestments are not of Roman origin, and the non-Roman names tended to supersede the Roman in Rome itself.\n\nThe period between the 9th and the 13th centuries is that of the final development of the liturgical vestments in the West. In the 9th century appeared the Pontifical gloves; in the 10th, the mitre; in the 11th, the use of liturgical shoes and stockings was reserved for cardinals and bishops. By the 12th century, mitre and gloves were worn by all bishops, and in many cases they had assumed a new ornament, the \"rationale\", a merely honorific decoration (supposed to symbolize doctrine and wisdom), sometimes of the nature of a highly ornamental broad shoulder collar with dependent lappets, and sometimes closely resembling the pallium; rarely a \"breast-plate\" on the model of that of the Jewish high priest. This elaboration of the pontifical vestments was contemporaneous with, and doubtless partly determined by, the assimilation of the bishops during those centuries to the type of the great feudal nobles whose ambitions and love of pomp they shared.\n\nWith the evolution of the feudal organization of society, even everyday costume was becoming a uniform, symbolizing in material and colour the exact status of the wearer. It was natural that in the parallel organization of the Church the official vestments should undergo a similar process of differentiation and definition. With this process, which in all its essential features was completed in the 11th century, doctrinal developments had little or nothing to do, though from the 9th century onwards liturgiologists were busy expounding the mystic symbolism of garments which, until their imagination set to work, had for the most part no symbolism whatever. Yet in view of later controversies, the changes made during this period, notably in the vestments connected with the mass, are not without significance. Hitherto the chasuble had been worn by all ministers at the Eucharist, even by the acolytes; it had been worn also at processions and other non-liturgical functions. It was now exalted into the mass vestment \"par excellence\", worn by the celebrant only, or by his immediate assistants (deacon and subdeacon) only on very special occasions. New vestments were devised to take the place, on less solemn occasions, of those hallowed by association with the holy sacrifice; thus the processional cope appeared in the 11th century and the surplice in the 12th. A change, too, came over the general character of vestments. Up to the 9th century these had been very plain, without ornament save such traditional decorations as the \"clavi\" of the dalmatic; what splendour they had was due to their material and the ample folds of their draperies. But from this time onwards they tend to become more and more elaborately decorated with embroidery and jeweller's work.\n\nVery significant, too, is the parting of the ways in the development of liturgical vestments in the East and West. During the first centuries both branches of the Church had used vestments substantially the same, developed from common originals; the alb, chasuble, stole and pallium were the equivalents of the ('), ('), (') and ('). While, however, between the 9th and 13th centuries, the Western Church was adding largely to her store of vestments, that of the East increased her list by but three, the (') and (') and the (\"\"). The living force of development in the Latin Church was symbolized in her garments; the orthodoxy of the Greek Church in hers. With the exception of the mitre, introduced in the 15th or 16th century, the liturgical costume of the Eastern clergy remains now practically what it was in the 9th century.\n\nIn the Western Church, though from the 9th century onwards the Roman use had been the norm, considerable alterations continued to be made in the shape and decoration of the liturgical vestments, and in this respect various Churches developed different traditions, as in the chasuble. The definition of their use by the various orders of the clergy in the several liturgical functions, however, was established by the close of the 13th century. The images below illustrate changes up to that time. For centuries thereafter the dress has been essentially unaltered.\n\nIn Protestant Churches the custom as to vestments differs widely, corresponding to a similar divergence in tradition and teaching. At the Reformation two tendencies became apparent. Martin Luther and his followers regarded vestments as among the \"adiaphora\", and in the Churches which afterwards came to be known as \"Lutheran\" many of the traditional Catholic vestments were retained. John Calvin, on the other hand, laid stress on the principle of the utmost simplicity in public worship; at the councils in Geneva, the traditional vestments were absolutely abolished, and the Genevan model was followed by the Calvinist or \"Reformed\" Churches throughout Europe.\nThe Church of England, in which the Lutheran and Calvinistic points of view struggled for the mastery, experienced a long controversy over the proper use of vestments. In the 20th and 21st century, usual vestments for the Anglican church include the alb with a cincture, and stole, over a cassock (a derivative of the tunic). \n\nEventually the Lutheran Churches of Denmark and Scandinavia retained the use of alb and chasuble in the celebration of the Eucharist (stole, amice, girdle and maniple were not used after the Reformation), and for bishops the cope and mitre. The surplice is not used, the ministers conducting the ordinary services and preaching in a black gown, of the 16th-century type, with white preaching bands or ruff. In Germany the Evangelical Church (itself an outcome of a compromise between Lutherans and Reformed), in general, discarded the old vestments. In Prussia the superintendents now started to wear pectoral crosses, which were instituted by the emperor Wilhelm II. In the Calvinistic \"Reformed\" Churches the minister wore the black Geneva gown with bands. This use was largely discontinued in the Free churches. On the other hand, some of these again adopted the surplice, and in one at least (the Catholic Apostolic Church) the traditional Catholic vestments were largely revived.\n\n"}
{"id": "42706853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42706853", "title": "Pohela (month)", "text": "Pohela (month)\n\nPohelā (Nepal Bhasa: पोहेला) is the third month in the Nepal Era calendar, the national lunar calendar of Nepal. The month corresponds to Pausha (पौष) in the Hindu lunar calendar and roughly matches January in the Gregorian calendar.\n\nPohelā begins with the new moon and the full moon falls on the 15th of the lunar month. The month is divided into the bright and dark fortnights which are known as Pohelā Thwa (पोहेला थ्व) and Pohelā Gā (पोहेला गा) respectively.\n\nThe sacred bathing festival of White Machindranath, the Bodhisattva of Compassion, is held on the 8th day of the bright fortnight at the courtyard of Jana Baha in Kathmandu. On the full moon day known as Paush Purnimā, which is celebrated as Milā Punhi (मिला पुन्हि) in Nepal Mandala, the procession of the deity Changu Narayan is held in Kathmandu.\n\nThe month-long Swasthani sacred story reciting festival also starts on the full moon day. In Sankhu, a town 16 km to the east of Kathmandu, devotees fast and take daily holy dips in the Sali Nadi River throughout the month to mark the Swasthani festival. In another event, unusable clay pots are collected at market squares and broken into pieces.\n"}
{"id": "2064100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2064100", "title": "Russian symbolism", "text": "Russian symbolism\n\nRussian symbolism was an intellectual and artistic movement predominant at the end of the 19th and beginning of the 20th century. It represented the Russian branch of the symbolist movement in European art, and was mostly known for its contributions to Russian poetry.\n\nPrimary influences on the movement were the irrationalistic and mystical poetry and philosophy of Fyodor Tyutchev and Vladimir Solovyov, Fyodor Dostoyevsky's novels, the operas of Richard Wagner, the philosophy of Arthur Schopenhauer and Friedrich Nietzsche, French symbolist and decadent poets (such as Stéphane Mallarmé, Paul Verlaine and Charles Baudelaire), and the dramas of Henrik Ibsen.\n\nThe movement was inaugurated by Nikolai Minsky's article \"The Ancient Debate\" (1884) and Dmitry Merezhkovsky's book \"On the Causes of the Decline and on the New Trends in Contemporary Russian Literature\" (1892). Both writers promoted extreme individualism and deified the act of creation. Merezhkovsky was known for his poetry as well as a series of novels on \"god-men\", among whom he counted Jesus, Joan of Arc, Dante Alighieri, Leonardo da Vinci, Napoleon and (later) Hitler. His wife, Zinaida Gippius, also a major poet in the early days of the symbolist movement, opened a salon in Saint Petersburg, which came to be known as the \"headquarters of Russian decadence\".\n\nBy the mid-1890s, Russian symbolism was still mainly a set of theories and had few notable practitioners. Alexander Dobrolyubov published a book of verse in 1895, just before renouncing lay poetry in favour of wanderings from one monastery to another. Another talented author, Ivan Konevskoy, died at the age of 24. It was not until the new talent of Valery Bryusov emerged that symbolist poetry became a major movement in Russian literature. In order to represent symbolism as a movement of formidable following, Bryusov adopted numerous pen-names and published three volumes of his own verse, entitled \"Russian Symbolists. An Anthology\" (1894–95). Bryusov's mystification proved successful — several young poets were attracted to symbolism as the latest fashion in Russian letters. In addition to Bryusov, the most popular poets were Konstantin Balmont, who believed in first inspiration and sometimes intentionally left his verse unrevised, and the pessimistic Fyodor Sologub, who referred to himself as the \"bard of death\".\n\nThough the reputations of many of these writers had faded by the mid-20th century, the influence of the symbolist movement was nonetheless profound. This was especially true in the case of Innokenty Annensky, whose definitive collection of verse, \"Cypress Box\", was published posthumously (1909). Sometimes cited as a Slavic counterpart to the accursed poets, Annensky managed to render into Russian the essential intonations of Baudelaire and Verlaine, while the subtle music, ominous allusions, arcane vocabulary, and the spell of minutely changing colours and odours in his poetry were all his own. His influence on the acmeist school of Russian poetry (Akhmatova, Gumilyov, Mandelshtam) was paramount.\n\nRussian symbolism really flourished in the first decade of the 20th century. Many new talents began to publish verse written in the symbolist vein. These writers were especially indebted to the philosopher Vladimir Solovyov. The scholar Vyacheslav Ivanov, whose interests lay in ancient poetry, returned from Italy to establish a \"Dionysian\" club in St Petersburg. His self-proclaimed principle was to engraft \"archaic Miltonic diction\" to Russian poetry. Maximilian Voloshin, known best for his poetry about the Russian revolution, opened a poetic salon at his villa in the Crimea. Jurgis Baltrušaitis, a close friend of Alexander Scriabin and whose poetry is characterized by mystical philosophy and mesmerizing sounds, was active in Lithuania.\n\nOf the new generation, two young poets, Alexander Blok and Andrei Bely, became the most renowned of the entire Russian symbolist movement. Alexander Blok is widely considered to be one of the leading Russian poets of the twentieth century. He was often compared with Alexander Pushkin, and the whole Silver Age of Russian Poetry was sometimes styled the \"Age of Blok.\" His early verse is impeccably musical and rich in sound. Later, he sought to introduce daring rhythmic patterns and uneven beats into his poetry. His mature poems are often based on the conflict between the Platonic vision of ideal beauty and the disappointing reality of foul industrial outskirts. They are often characterized by an idiosyncratic use of color and spelling to express meaning. One of Blok's most famous and controversial poems was \"The Twelve,\" which described the march of twelve Bolshevik soldiers through the streets of revolutionary Petrograd in pseudo-religious terms.\n\nAndrei Bely strove to forge a unity of prose, poetry, and music in much of his literature, as evidenced by the title of one of his early works, \"Symphonies in Prose\". However, his fame rests primarily on post-symbolist works such as celebrated modernist novel \"Petersburg \"(1911-1913), a philosophical and spiritual work featuring a highly unorthodox narrative style, fleeting allusions and distinctive rhythmic experimentation. Vladimir Nabokov placed it second in his list of the greatest novels of the twentieth century after James Joyce's \"Ulysses\". Other works worthy of mention include the highly influential theoretical book of essays \"Symbolism\" (1910), which was instrumental in redefining the goals of the symbolist movement, and the novel \"Kotik Letaev\" (1914-1916), which traces the first glimpses of consciousness in a new-born baby.\n\nThe city of St. Petersburg itself became one of the major symbols utilized by the second generation of Russian symbolists. Blok's verses on the imperial capital bring to life an impressionistic picture of the \"city of a thousand illusions\" and as a doomed world full of merchants and bourgeois figures. Various elemental forces (such as sunrises and sunsets, light and darkness, lightning and fire) assume apocalyptic qualities, serving as portents of a cataclysmic event that would change the earth and humanity forever. The Scythians and Mongols were often found in the works of these poets, serving as symbols of future catastrophic wars. Due to the eschatological tendency inherent in the Russian symbolist movement, many of them—including Blok, Bely, and Bryusov—accepted the Russian Revolution as the next evolutionary step in their nation's history.\n\nFyodor Sologub was the first writer to introduce the morbid, pessimistic elements characteristic of \"fin de siècle\" literature and philosophy into Russian prose. His most famous novel, \"The Petty Demon\" (1902), was an attempt to create a living portrait of the concept known in Russian as \"poshlost'\" (an idea whose meaning lies somewhere between evil, trashy and banality or kitsch). His next large prose work, \"A Created Legend\" (a trilogy consisting of \"Drops of Blood,\" \"Queen Ortruda,\" and \"Smoke and Ash\"), contained many of the same characteristics but presented a considerably more positive and hopeful view of the world.\n\nValery Bryusov's novel \"The Fiery Angel\" is also well known. It tells the story of a 16th-century German scholar and his attempts to win the love of a young woman whose spiritual integrity is seriously undermined by her participation in occult practices and her dealings with unclean forces. The novel served as the basis for Sergei Prokofiev's opera \"The Fiery Angel\".\n\nOne Russian symbolist who wrote mainly prose was Alexei Remizov. Drawing on medieval Russian literature, he grotesquely combined dreams, reality and pure whimsy in his works.\n\nRussian symbolism had begun to lose its momentum in literature by the 1920s. Its major practitioners frequently conflicted in the pages of the journals \"Vesy\", \"Zolotoe runo\" and \"Pereval\". Others wrestled for control of key printing houses. Meanwhile, many younger poets were drawn to the acmeist movement, which distanced itself from excesses of symbolism. Still others joined the ranks of the futurists, an iconoclastic group which sought to recreate art entirely, eschewing all aesthetic conventions.\n\nDespite intense disapproval by the Soviet State, however, Symbolism continued to be an influence on poets like Boris Pasternak. In the \"Literary Gazette\" of September 9, 1958, the critic Viktor Pertsov denounced, \"the decadent religious poetry of Pasternak, which reeks of mothballs from the Symbolist suitcase of 1908-10 manufacture.\"\n\nProbably the most important Russian symbolist painter was Mikhail Vrubel, who achieved fame with a large mosaic-like canvas \"The Demon Seated\" (1890) and went mad while working on the dynamic and sinister \"Demon Downcast\" (1902).\n\nOther symbolist painters associated with the \"World of Art\" magazine were Victor Borisov-Musatov and Kuzma Petrov-Vodkin, followers of Puvis de Chavannes; Mikhail Nesterov, who painted religious subjects from medieval Russian history; Mstislav Dobuzhinsky, with his \"urbanistic phantasms\", and Nicholas Roerich, whose paintings have been described as hermetic, or esoteric. The tradition of Russian symbolism in the late Soviet period was renewed by Konstantin Vasilyev, whose style was greatly influenced by the Russian Neo-romantic painter Viktor Vasnetsov, as well as Mikhail Nesterov and Nicholas Roerich.\n\nThe foremost symbolist composer was Alexander Scriabin who in his \"First Symphony\" praised art as a kind of religion. \"Le Divin Poème\" (1902-1904) sought to express \"the evolution of the human spirit from pantheism to unity with the universe.\" (1910), given in 1915 in New York City, was accompanied by elaborately selected colour projections on a screen.\n\nIn Scriabin's synthetic performances music, poetry, dancing, colours, and scents were used so as to bring about \"supreme, final ecstasy.\" Andrey Bely and Wassily Kandinsky articulated similar ideas on the \"stage fusion of all arts.\"\n\nAs to more traditional theatre, Paul Schmidt an influential translator, has written that \"The Cherry Orchard\" and some other late plays of Anton Chekhov show the influence of the Symbolist movement. Their first production by Constantin Stanislavski was as realistic as possible. Stanislavski collaborated with the English theatre practitioner Edward Gordon Craig on a significant production of \"Hamlet\" in 1911-12, which experimented with symbolist monodrama as a basis for its staging. Meyerhold's production of Blok's \"Puppet Show\" (1906) is usually cited as a high point of symbolist theatre in Russia. Two years later, Stanislavski won international acclaim when he staged Maurice Maeterlinck's \"The Blue Bird\" in the Moscow Art Theatre.\n\nNikolai Evreinov was one of a number of writers who developed a symbolist theory of theatre. Evreinov insisted that everything around us is \"theatre\" and that nature is full of theatrical conventions, for example, desert flowers mimicking stones, mice feigning death in order to escape cats' claws, and the complicated dances of some birds. Theatre, for Evreinov, was a universal symbol of existence.\n\n"}
{"id": "53578413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53578413", "title": "Stolpersteine in Prague-Holešovice", "text": "Stolpersteine in Prague-Holešovice\n\nThe Stolpersteine in Prague-Holešovice lists the Stolpersteine in a district Holešovice () of Prague. The district has been split off. Since 2002 it belongs mainly to Praha 7, but a smaller part belong to Praha 1. Stolpersteine is the German name for stumbling blocks collocated all over Europe by German artist Gunter Demnig. They remember the fate of the Nazi victims being murdered, deported, exiled or driven to suicide.\n\nGenerally, the stumbling blocks are posed in front of the building where the victims had their last self chosen residence. The name of the Stolpersteine in Czech is: \"Kameny zmizelých\", stones of the disappeared.\n\nAccording to the website of Gunter Demnig the Stolpersteine of Prague were posed on 8 October 2008, 7 November 2009, 12 June 2010, 13 to 15 July 2011 and on 17 July 2013 by the artist himself. A further collocation occurred on 28 October 2012, but is not mentioned on Demnig's page.\n\nThe Czech Stolperstein project was initiated in 2008 by the \"Česká unie židovské mládeže\" (Czech Union of Jewish Youth) and was realized with the patronage of the Mayor of Prague.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40910936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40910936", "title": "Sverker Sörlin", "text": "Sverker Sörlin\n\nSverker Sörlin, born 6 August 1956 in Åsele, Västerbotten, is a Swedish historian of ideas, professor in environmental history, and writer.\n\nSörlin has a PhD in the history of ideas from Umeå University from 1988. In 1993 he assumed the first chair in environmental history in Scandinavia, also at Umeå University. Since 2007 he is professor of environmental history at the Division of History of Science, Technology and Environment at the Royal Institute of Technology (KTH) in Stockholm. He's had an adjunct position at the Stockholm Resilience Centre (2005–2012), and visiting positions at University of California Berkeley (1993), University of Cambridge (2004–2005), University of Oslo (2006), University of Cape Town (2012–2013), and the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton University (2013–2014). In 2011 he was awarded an honorary doctorate by University of Turku, Finland.\n\nSörlin was Associate Director for the Center for History of Science in the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences 1988–1990, and the founding director of the Swedish Institute for Studies in Education and Research, SISTER (2000–2003). 2006–2009 he chaired the Swedish committee for the International Polar Year. 1994–1998 and 2005–2009 he served on the Swedish Government's Research Advisory Board, and he is currently on the Government's Environmental Research board.\n\nSörlin has published in the fields of history of science, environmental history, the history of forestry, human ecology, environmental humanities, European history, research policy, innovations studies, and the history and politics of higher education. He frequently appears in Swedish media, and also writes popular science and narrative non-fiction. He has received several awards, including Augustpriset (2004) and the Lars Salvius award (2012).\n\n"}
{"id": "23083720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23083720", "title": "The Evolution of God", "text": "The Evolution of God\n\nThe Evolution of God is a 2009 book by Robert Wright, in which the author explores the history of the concept of God in the three Abrahamic religions through a variety of means, including archeology, history, theology, and evolutionary psychology. The patterns which link Judaism, Christianity, and Islam and the ways in which they have changed their concepts over time are explored as one of the central themes.\n\nOne of the conclusions of the book that Wright tries to make is a reconciliation between science and religion. He also speculates on the future of the concept of God.\n\nAmong other things, Wright discusses the role of evolutionary biology in the development of religion. Geneticist Dean Hamer hypothesized that some people have a specific gene that makes them prone to religious belief, which he calls the God gene, and that over time natural selection has favored these people because their spirituality leads to optimism. Wright, however, thinks the tendency towards religious belief is not an adaptive trait influenced by natural selection, but rather a spandrel - a trait that happens to be supported by adaptations originally selected for other purposes. Wright states that the human brain approaches religious belief based on how it adapted to survive and reproduce in early hunter-gatherer societies.\n\nHe points out four key traits of religion that align with the human brain's survival adaptations:\nHumans have adapted to pay attention to surprising and confusing information, because it could make the difference between life and death. (For instance, if a person left the campsite and mysteriously never returned, it would be wise for the others to be on guard for a predator or some other danger.) Understanding and controlling cause and effect also takes top priority in the human brain, since humans live in complex social groups where predicting and influencing the actions and thoughts of others gains them allies, status, and access to resources. As human cognitive abilities and curiosity expanded over the centuries, their investigation of cause and effect expanded from the strictly social context out into the world at large, opening the doors for religions to explain things like weather and disease.\n\nThough some of these explanations were strange and perhaps dubious, the fact that they could not be completely disproven lent them credibility; it was better to be cautious than dead. Wright uses an example from the Haida people, indigenous to the northwest coast of North America, who would try to appease killer whale deities to calm storms out at sea; they would pour fresh water into the ocean or tie tobacco or deer tallow to the end of a paddle. While some people certainly died despite these offerings, those who survived were a testament to the ritual's possible efficacy.\n\nMysterious and unproven beliefs can also persist in a culture because human brains have adapted to agree with the group consensus even if it goes against one's better judgment or personal beliefs, since a person alienated from the group loses protection, food, and mates. Wright cites the Asch conformity experiments and even posits that Stockholm syndrome is not so much a syndrome as a natural product of evolution, the brain's way of ensuring that a person accepts and is accepted by his or her new social group. In addition, beliefs can persist because once a person publicly announces a belief, social psychologists have found that he or she is inclined to focus on evidence supporting that belief while conveniently ignoring evidence contradicting it, a logical fallacy known as cherry picking.\n\nJournalist and political commentator Andrew Sullivan gave the book a positive review in \"The Atlantic\", saying that the book \"...gave me hope that we can avoid both the barrenness of a world without God and the horrible fusion of fundamentalism and weapons of mass destruction.\" \n\n\"Newsweek\" religion editor, Lisa Miller, described \"The Evolution of God\" as a reframing of the faith vs. reason debate. Drawing a contrast to such authors as Sam Harris, Richard Dawkins and Christopher Hitchens, Miller gives an overall positive review of the book's approach to the examination of the concept of God.\n\nIn a review for \"The New York Times\", Yale professor of psychology Paul Bloom said, \"In his brilliant new book, “The Evolution of God,” Robert Wright tells the story of how God grew up.\" Bloom sums up Wright's controversial stance as, \"Wright’s tone is reasoned and careful, even hesitant, throughout, and it is nice to read about issues like the morality of Christ and the meaning of jihad without getting the feeling that you are being shouted at. His views, though, are provocative and controversial. There is something here to annoy almost everyone.\"\n\nHowever, in a \"New York Times\" review that included a reply from Wright, Nicholas Wade, a writer for the \"Science Times\" section, notes the book is \"a disappointment from the Darwinian perspective\", because evolution \"provides a simpler explanation for moral progression than the deity Wright half invokes.\" Wright replied to Wade's comments, saying Wade had misunderstood Wright's argument and that \"The deity (if there is one–and I’m agnostic on that point) would be realizing moral progress through evolution’s creation of the human moral sense (and through the subsequent development of that moral sense via cultural evolution, particularly technological evolution).\" Wade replied that \"evolution seems to me a sufficient explanation for the moral progress that Mr. Wright correctly discerns in the human condition, so there seemed no compelling need to invoke a deity.\"\n\nTo promote the book, Wright did a variety of interviews, including with the \"New York Times\", \"Publishers Weekly\", and \"Bill Moyers Journal\".\nHe also did a series of videos on Bloggingheads.tv, a website he co-founded with Mickey Kaus. Wright also appeared on \"The Colbert Report\" on August 18, 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48954829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48954829", "title": "The Uninvited (Thunderbirds)", "text": "The Uninvited (Thunderbirds)\n\n\"The Uninvited\" is the tenth episode of the first series of \"Thunderbirds\", a British 1960s Supermarionation television series co-created by Gerry and Sylvia Anderson. Written by Alan Fennell and directed by Desmond Saunders, it was first broadcast on ATV Midlands on 2 December 1965.\n\nIn this episode, \"Thunderbirds 1\" crashes in the Sahara Desert after being shot down by three unidentified aircraft. Two archaeologists rescue Scott, but one good turn deserves another, and later on, Scott finds himself rushing back to the desert when the pair become entombed in the lost pyramid of Khamandides.\n\nScott Tracy (voiced by Shane Rimmer) is returning to Tracy Island in \"Thunderbird 1\" when he is suddenly attacked by a group of unidentified fighters. \"Thunderbird 1\" is damaged and crash-lands in the Sahara. On Tracy Island, Jeff (voiced by Peter Dyneley) dispatches Virgil, Brains and Tin-Tin (voiced by David Holliday, David Graham and Christine Finn) in \"Thunderbird 2\" to rescue Scott. In the desert, archaeologists Wilson and Lindsey are returning to their base camp after a fruitless expedition when they come across the shot-down \"Thunderbird 1\". Stopping their all-terrain truck and supply trailer, they treat Scott's injuries until \"Thunderbird 2\" arrives. Later, with Scott convalescent and \"Thunderbird 1\" repaired by Brains, Wilson and Lindsey reveal that they were searching for the lost pyramid of Pharaoh Khamandides. The International Rescue team head back to Tracy Island the next day.\n\nWilson and Lindsey resume their journey, but frustration gets the better of Wilson. Driving too fast, he causes the coupling between the truck and the trailer to snap. The trailer rolls down a slope and explodes, destroying nearly all of the men's food, water and fuel and damaging their radio. They use the truck's remaining fuel to travel to a waterhole 40 miles away but arrive to find it bone-dry. As a last, desperate resort, the men use the failing radio to send out a distress call to International Rescue. On \"Thunderbird 5\", Alan Tracy (voiced by Matt Zimmerman) has just relieved John (voiced by Ray Barrett) as space monitor when he picks up Wilson and Lindsey's faint transmission. Jeff dispatches Scott in \"Thunderbird 1\" to find and rescue the men.\n\nIn the desert, Lindsey spots a mysterious object on the horizon – the lost pyramid of Khamandides. Using the last of their fuel, the men drive up to the pyramid. As Lindsey deciphers hieroglyphs on the side – hailing Khamandides as \"Lord of the Eternal Fountain\" – a block rises up to form an entrance to the interior. The men proceed but find themselves entombed when the block falls back into place. Deeper inside, they find mounds of treasure. They also discover that the Eternal Fountain is real and drink from it.\n\nScott arrives at the pyramid and follows Wilson and Lindsey through the one-way door. Lindsey, traumatised by his recent experiences, accuses of Scott of trying to steal his new-found riches and pulls a gun on him. A shootout between Lindsey and Scott ensues. Scott loses his gun but is saved by the arrival of two armed men, who blast Lindsey's gun out of his hand, knocking him out. The strangers conduct Scott, Wilson and the unconscious Lindsey to the pyramid's control centre in a monorail car. This journey takes them over a refinery where men in gas masks are using a highly toxic and explosive gas to refuel fighters identical to those that shot down Scott.\n\nJeff is concerned by Scott's lack of contact and dispatches Virgil and Gordon (voiced by David Graham) in \"Thunderbird 2\" to investigate. Seeing \"Thunderbird 2\"s arrival, the pyramid's inhabitants prepare to attack it with ground-to-air missiles, but before these are launched Wilson punches one of the guards to the floor and Scott, having taken back his gun, shoots several others. A stray bullet hits a control panel, causing the missiles to launch but detonate harmlessly in mid-air. Scott and Wilson take the monorail back to the entrance, with Scott shooting at the refinery workers as they go. The gas is inadvertently released into the refinery, starting a series of explosions. Scott, Wilson and Lindsey, who has just regained consciousness, reach the entrance to find it open and quickly lift off in \"Thunderbird 1\". \"Thunderbird 1\" and \"Thunderbird 2\" clear the area just before the final explosion destroys the pyramid.\n\n\"The Uninvited\" was the fifth episode of \"Thunderbirds\" to be produced. Originally filmed in late 1964 as a 25-minute episode, in January the following year it was extended to 50 minutes to satisfy AP Films' sponsor Lew Grade, who had been impressed with the pilot episode and ordered that all episodes of \"Thunderbirds\" be re-written to fill a one-hour timeslot. The additional material for \"The Uninvited\", which had originally been titled \"Desert of Danger\", consists of the shoot-down of \"Thunderbird 1\", the rescue of Scott and the character's subsequent recovery on Tracy Island. The filming of these new scenes coincided with the production of \"Desperate Intruder\" and \"30 Minutes After Noon\".\n\nActor Matt Zimmerman, who voiced Lindsey, fondly remembers the dialogue recording for this episode: \"I had to yell and scream, 'Hahaha! You won't take me alive, Tracy!' We had a lot of fun doing that one.\"\n\nAlthough the script refers to the pyramid tribe as \"the Zombites\", they remain unnamed in the episode itself. The Zombite fighter aircraft are re-dressed versions of the WASP fighters that appear in \"Stingray\".\n\nThis episode marks the first appearance of Grandma Tracy. The model of Wilson and Lindsey's desert truck would later appear in \"The Mighty Atom\", \"Martian Invasion\" and \"Cry Wolf\". The \"Thunderbird 3\" launch sequence is recycled from \"Sun Probe\". \n\nFirst broadcast on 2 December 1965, \"The Uninvited\" was transmitted as the tenth episode of \"Thunderbirds\" for both the series' original run on Associated Television and the majority of 1960s repeat runs. A number of scenes were omitted from the two-part version that was shown in some UK regions.\n\nSeries co-creator Sylvia Anderson describes \"The Uninvited\" as \"good fun but a little too adventurous for our puppet cast\", though she praises the episode's special effects.\n\nWriting for Panini UK, Chris Bentley comments positively on \"The Uninvited\", stating that it \"entertainingly re-shapes the series' format, illustrating the potentially wide variety of stories that can be told within the International Rescue framework.\" He also commends the episode's use of action.\n\nMarcus Hearn, author of \"Thunderbirds: The Vault\", has mixed views on the episode. He describes the final battle with the Zombites as being \"staged in the explosive style of the 1960s \"James Bond\" films\" but questions Lindsey's fit of homicidal rage against Scott, which he considers to be \"out of character\". Hearn also criticises the Zombites as villains, noting that their hostility and motives for living underground are never explained. He suggests that the plot concerning the quest for a lost pyramid would not have looked out of place in an episode of \"Stingray\".\n\nTom Fox of \"Starburst\" magazine gives \"The Uninvited\" a rating of five out of five, calling it a \"quality episode\". He praises the setting as well as the Zombites, whom he describes as \"hilarious\" and \"hardly your average bunch of pyramid-dwelling undead\".\n\nA comic strip adaptation of \"The Uninvited\" was serialised in issues 12 to 14 of \"Thunderbirds: The Comic\" in 1992. It was re-published as part of the comic album \"Thunderbirds: Shock Wave\" the same year.\n\nThe episode was included in the 2004 DVD release \"The Best of Thunderbirds – The Favorite Episodes\".\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "49053036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49053036", "title": "Virgil A. Lewis", "text": "Virgil A. Lewis\n\nVirgil Anson Lewis (July 6, 1848, West Columbia, Virginia—December 5, 1912, Mason City, West Virginia) was a historian of the U.S. state of West Virginia. He was prominent in education and history writing in his home state, serving as the first State Historian and Archivist of West Virginia (1905–1912).\n\nLewis was born in a log cabin in Mason County, then part of Virginia, to George W. and Lucie Edwards Lewis. Upon the death of his father in 1858, Lewis, the oldest child, was compelled to go to work to support the family. He continued his education, however, working as a printer’s assistant and later as a shipping clerk. Lewis taught for many years in county schools and, in 1878, was appointed the principal of the Buffalo Academy in neighboring Putnam County. He studied law and was admitted to the bar in 1879, but decided not to become a lawyer, returning to teaching. In 1886, he married Elizabeth Stone of Mason City.\n\nIn 1890 he helped organize the West Virginia Historical and Antiquarian Society, and in 1892 became editor of the \"Southern Historical Magazine\". Lewis was elected State Superintendent of Free Schools in 1892 and was granted an A.M. in history from West Virginia University the following year. His 1896 textbook \"History and Government of West Virginia\" was utilized statewide in public schools for over fifty years. In 1905, Governor William M. O. Dawson appointed him first director of the Bureau of Archives and History, and he served in that position until his death.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52415396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52415396", "title": "Xavier Casals", "text": "Xavier Casals\n\nXavier Casals i Meseguer (1963) is a Spanish historian specialized in the field of the far-right.\n\nBorn in 1963 in Barcelona, he has authored several works about the Far right, featuring studies both about the Spanish Neo-nazi and far right scene, as about an international comparative context. He has co-authored a biography of Miguel Primo de Rivera. He also has studied the phenomena of populism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1999060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1999060", "title": "Āryāvarta", "text": "Āryāvarta\n\nĀryāvarta (Sanskrit: आर्यावर्त, lit. \"abode of the noble or excellent ones (Aryas)\", ) is a term for parts of the Indian subcontinent in the ancient Hindu texts such as \"Dharmashastras\" and \"Sutras\". The limits of \"Aryavarta\" varies from text to text. These texts also name other parts of the Indian subcontinent as \"Brahmavarta\", \"Madhyadesha\", \"Panchala\" and others, with neither clear boundaries nor details about who lived in them.\n\nThe \"Manusmṛti\" (2.22) gives the name to \"the tract between the Himalaya and the Vindhya ranges, from the Eastern Sea (Bay of Bengal) to the Western Sea (Arabian Sea)\". \n\nThe \"Vasistha Dharma Sutra\" I.8-9 and 12-13 locates the Āryāvarta to the west of the disappearance of the Sarasvati River in the desert and Arabian sea, to the east of the Kālakavana, to the south of the Pariyatra Mountains and the Vindhya Range and to the north of the Himalayas.\nThe Baudhayana \"Dharmasutra\" (BDS) 1.1.2.10 gives similar definitions and declares that Āryāvarta is the land that lies west of Kālakavana, east of Adarsana, south of the Himalayas and north of the Vindhyas, but in BDS 1.1.2.11 Āryāvarta is confined to the doab of the Ganges-Yamuna, and BDS 1.1.2.13-15. Patanjali's defines Āryāvarta like the \"Vasistha Dharmasutra\".\n\nThe Gurjara-Pratihara king in the tenth century was titled the \"Maharajadhiraja of Aryavarta\".\n\n\n"}
