{"id": "19299983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19299983", "title": "Abrie Fourie", "text": "Abrie Fourie\n\nAbrie Fourie (born 1969 in Pretoria) is a South African born artist. He currently lives and works in Berlin, Germany.\n\nWhile specialising in photography and digital media, Fourie prefers not to be bound by a specific genre. His photographs have been described as capturing mundane moments and transforming them into static abstractions.\n\nFourie first exhibited his work in South Africa in 1992, and internationally in 1995, as part of a group exhibition: 'Spring Time in Chile’ at the Museum for Contemporary Art, Santiago, Chile. Fourie’s first one-person exhibition was held in Pretoria, at the Verwoerdburg Art Gallery in 1996, titled: ‘Inside this house, 1993-1996’ and his first international solo exhibition, ‘observatório # 4 - Whatever, Wherever’ was held at Camouflage, Brussels, Belgium in 2003.\n\nOther solo exhibitions include: ‘End of the World’, at the Museum for African Art, New York, USA in 2004; ‘where-we-r.com’, at the Forum d’art contemporian FAC, in Sierre, Switzerland, 2006; ‘Oblique’, Vladimiro Izzo Gallery, Berlin, Germany in 2009 and ‘Labor Berlin 11: Oblique’, curated by Storm Jansen van Rensburg, Haus der Kulturen der Welt, Berlin, Germany in 2012. Museum exhibitions include the 'Memory Intimacy Traces' (‘Memorias Intimas Marcas’) curated by Fernando Alvim at Pavilhãoa Branco, Museu da Cidade in Lisbon, Portugal and touring to the Museum of Modern Art, Antwerp, Belgium in 2000; ‘Post’ at the Tama Art University Museum in Tokyo, Japan; ‘Take me to the river’ at the Wichita Falls Museum of Art at Midwestern State University in Texas, USA; ‘Reflections: African Art is…’ at the Museum for African Art in New York, USA and ‘Nederland 1’ at Museumgouda in Amsterdam, Netherlands curated by Tiong Ang.\n\nHis work has been seen in international exhibitions, including the ‘Fotofiesta - International Photography Biennale’, curated by Koulla Xinisteris, Medellin, Colombia, 2003; ‘FotoGrafia 2004 Festival internazionale di Roma’, Italy; the 51st Venice Biennale, as part of a project called: ‘Real Presence, Floating Sites’, curated by Biljana Tomic and Dobrilla Denegri, 2005.\n\nFourie is also known for his curatorial work, in 1995 he was assistant curator to the first Johannesburg Biennale, for the exhibition ‘Memory and Geography’ by artists William Kentridge and Doris Bloom. In the same year, he co-curated ‘Brown and Green’ at the Pretoria Art Museum. In 1996 he co-curated ‘Switch’ at the Africus Institute for Contemporary Art in Johannesburg, assisted Jean Hubert-Martin in curating the exhibition ‘Universales 23’ at the São Paulo Biennale in Brazil and curated ‘Purple & Green’ at The Pretoria Art Museum. In 2002 he curated‘Garden of Words’ by Willem Boshoff in Denmark. From 2003 – 2007 he was the founder and curator of Outlet Project Room at the Tshwane University of Technology, Pretoria, South Africa. In 2005 he was the Invited Young Curator at Aardklop National Arts Festival, Potchefstroom, South Africa and from 2006 – 2007 he curated for the ‘Art in Embassy Programme’, the American Embassy, Pretoria, South Africa. Since 2005 he has been curator for Map (South Africa Modern Art Projects). In 2011 he curated ‘Mine, A Selection of Films by South African Artists’ at Iwalewa-Haus, the Africa Centre of the University of Bayreuth in Germany. The exhibition has subsequently traveled to the United Arab Emirates, Dubai Community Theatre and Arts Centre and to South Africa, at the University of Johannesburg and the University of the Free State.\n\nFourie’s works are part of worldwide collections such as the Omi International Arts Centre, The Museum for African Art and Pondside Press in New York; SCAD in Georgia and ObjectNotFound Project Space in Mexico. Other collections include: Costa Reis Compilação de Arte Africana Actual Collection and the Sindika Dokolo African Collection of Contemporary Art in Angola; the Daimler Art Collection, and Hanz Bogatzke Collection of Contemporary African Art, Germany; the Danish Ministry of Culture, Denmark; ECAV/ CRIC, Switzerland; the Frans Masereel Centre and the Royal Museum of Fine Arts of Belgium.\n\nHis work is widely collected in South Africa, including by Pretoria Art Museum, Graskop Hotel, Tshwane University of Technology and University of South Africa (UNISA) in Pretoria; Johannesburg Art Gallery, The SABC Collection, The MTN Art Institute, The Rand Merchant Bank; BHP Billiton, SASOL, Vodacom and Hollard in Johannesburg; the Oliewenhuis Art Museum in Bloemfontein and the Polokwane Art Museum.\n\nPrivate collectors that own Fourie’s works include Willem Boshoff; Jack Ginsberg; Harrie Siertsema; Pierre Lombart and Clive Kellner.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52959127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52959127", "title": "Access to public information in Moldova", "text": "Access to public information in Moldova\n\nAccess to public information and freedom of information (FOI) refer to the right to access information held by public bodies also known as \"right to know\". Access to public information is considered of fundamental importance for the effective functioning of democratic systems, as it enhances governments' and public officials' accountability, boosting people participation and allowing their informed participation into public life. The fundamental premise of the right to access public information is that the information held by governmental institutions is in principle public and may be concealed only on the basis of legitimate reasons which should be detailed in the law. \n\nAccess to information, just as media independence and pluralism remain critical issues in the Republic of Moldova. Despite numerous calls for media legislation reform, the government of Moldova has not made significant steps to improve access to information according to the country's international obligations, including a convention with the Council of Europe. Public officials widely impede access to public information through refusals, delays or incomplete answers, without sanctions. In 2014, the Independent Journalism Center (IJC) presented to Parliament amendments to improve the law on access to information, provide additional guarantees for journalists and limit unjustified limitations of access to public information by public officials. However, the draft law has not yet been adopted. According to the Executive Director of the Association of Independent Press, Petru Macovei, overall the law on access to information is good, but it is compromised by a non-collaborative attitude of the public authorities.\n\nThe right to access public information in guaranteed by Article 34 of the Moldovan Constitution and is regulated by the Law on Access to Information which was adopted in 2000. The law establishes that information of public interest can be requested in writing or orally. Information can be consulted at the institution’s premises or can be received stored in an electronic support or in hardcopy. Viewing documents on the institution’s premises is free of charge, while reasonable fees can be charged for the cost of photocopying, transcribing, translating or delivering the documents. According to the law, documents of public interest must be provided within 15 working days, which can be extended by five days in case of requests of large numbers of documents. If the request is rejected, the applicant can exercise its right of appeal to the relevant courts, and if the court decides on behalf of the applicant, the law imposes penalties in form of fines to the government body which has violated the law. Exceptions justifying limitation to the disclosure regime are specified in the law and include state secrets, information on the military, intelligence, economic, foreign policy or criminal proceedings, information concerning ongoing lawsuit, personal data, confidential business data, and preliminary results of scientific and technical research.\n\nIn practice, compliance with the Law on Access to Information remains weak just as its implementation which is not supported by the full authority of the bodies responsible for its enforcement. The Ombudsman in Moldova has the authority to supervise the implementation of the law, but this office lacks the capacity and the resources to exercise its role. Investigative journalists and civil society organisations face numerous difficulties when requesting access to public information, including obstruction by public officials, refusals and delays in replying to requests, as well as incomplete responses to requests for information. To justify their denials, public officials frequently cite laws that conflict with the Law on Access to Information, in particular the Law on State Secrets and the Law on Trade Secrets.\n\nOne of the problem in enforcing the right to access public information is impunity, meaning that the law establishes only insignificant fines on public offices who fail to provide due access to information. Also, in many cases, the information provided by state bodies is shaped in the officials' favor, giving the impression that authorities are behaving in compliance with the law, while in fact depriving the requester the information they are seeking. Moreover, in many cases officials do not provide public interest information without the approval from a supervisor and often refuse to answers telephone calls from journalists, thus increasing the time for getting the required information.\n\nAnother problem concerns the costs for obtaining public information and the fees charged to the requester, despite some improvements made recently, such as the introduction of a public register through the E-Government service in 2014. This affects in particular newsrooms and investigative journalists that must pay large sums of money for getting data useful for their investigative work.\n\n"}
{"id": "5207107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5207107", "title": "Akshardham (religion)", "text": "Akshardham (religion)\n\nAkshardham (from the words \"Akshar\" meaning indestructible, and \"Dham\" meaning abode or home) is believed to be the divine abode of Swaminarayan by his followers. The followers of Swaminarayan believe that the jiva or soul goes to Akshardham after salvation to attain moksha. \n\nAkshardham in actuality is a reference to a metaphysical form known as Gunatit (Like Brahman), this state or form is of euphoria whereby the followers of the Swaminarayan Sampraday reach what is known as Moksha and receive infinite peace, and happiness in this very life (Chati deha Akshardham nu sukh). This metaphysical entity or Tattva is embodied into the Satpurush who is the manifestation of Akshar and Purushottam (God), service unto the Satpurush filled with divine understanding and glory is in its entirety Moksha, in this very life as opposed to the next. \n\nAkshardham is the immortal abode of God or the abode of Swaminarayan. This is a common term used in the Swaminarayan Hindu philosophy.\n"}
{"id": "36668074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36668074", "title": "Amazonian pop art", "text": "Amazonian pop art\n\nAmazonian pop art (also known as Amazon pop art or wild naive) is a contemporary art movement that emerged in late 1990 in Iquitos. The movement has an intense chromaticism with a great representation of ayahuasca experience psychedelic —a delirious artistic style that is seen strongly in the non-Amazonian pop art works of Pablo Amaringo. Originally, it is an mural art that blends prominently the colorful amazonian culture, European motifs and commercial characters, which could be influenced by American pop art when the era of cable television came to the city, like MTV.\n\nAmazonian pop art grew self-taught. Mainly started in the suburbs of Iquitos, where there was no art market, or some kind of art school, because that too is considered a naive style.\n\nEssentially, the Amazonian pop art originated from various mixes of popular culture Iquitos received through the media, including movie posters, typography of film in Mexico and India. Another important feature is the visual style that originated from music videos. Typically, in most of the Amazonian pop art works is denoted nightclubs, bars and pubs video scene. In several other compositions, it also becomes large presence of the feminine and the erotic.\n\nIn the visual, Amazonian pop art is divided into two categories: the \"diurnal\" works have consistent and complete colors, and the \"nocturn\" works, the most attractive, are painted with phosphorescent material —often taking infinite forms as a collection of neon lights—, that glow under black light or simple night.\n\nCurrently, several artists engaged in decorating the rustic architecture of the city —such as huts and palafittes— in areas such as the Belen District as a method of artistic expression and cultural influence. The cultural impact of art was so attractive that comes up in cemeteries.\n\n"}
{"id": "36122619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36122619", "title": "Artificial life", "text": "Artificial life\n\nArtificial life (often abbreviated ALife or A-Life) is a field of study wherein researchers examine systems related to natural life, its processes, and its evolution, through the use of simulations with computer models, robotics, and biochemistry. The discipline was named by Christopher Langton, an American theoretical biologist, in 1986. There are three main kinds of alife, named for their approaches: \"soft\", from software; \"hard\", from hardware; and \"wet\", from biochemistry. Artificial life researchers study traditional biology by trying to recreate aspects of biological phenomena.\n\nArtificial life studies the fundamental processes of living systems in artificial environments in order to gain a deeper understanding of the complex information processing that define such systems. These topics are broad, but often include evolutionary dynamics, emergent properties of collective systems, biomimicry, as well as related issues about the philosophy of the nature of life and the use of lifelike properties in artistic works.\n\nThe modeling philosophy of artificial life strongly differs from traditional modeling by studying not only \"life-as-we-know-it\" but also \"life-as-it-might-be\".\n\nA traditional model of a biological system will focus on capturing its most important parameters. In contrast, an alife modeling approach will generally seek to decipher the most simple and general principles underlying life and implement them in a simulation. The simulation then offers the possibility to analyse new and different lifelike systems.\n\nVladimir Georgievich Red'ko proposed to generalize this distinction to the modeling of any process, leading to the more general distinction of \"processes-as-we-know-them\" and \"processes-as-they-could-be\".\n\nAt present, the commonly accepted definition of life does not consider any current alife simulations or software to be alive, and they do not constitute part of the evolutionary process of any ecosystem. However, different opinions about artificial life's potential have arisen:\n\n\n\nThis is a list of artificial life/digital organism simulators, organized by the method of creature definition.\n\nProgram-based simulations contain organisms with a complex DNA language, usually Turing complete. This language is more often in the form of a computer program than actual biological DNA. Assembly derivatives are the most common languages used. An organism \"lives\" when its code is executed, and there are usually various methods allowing self-replication. Mutations are generally implemented as random changes to the code. Use of cellular automata is common but not required. Another example could be an artificial intelligence and multi-agent system/program.\n\nIndividual modules are added to a creature. These modules modify the creature's behaviors and characteristics either directly, by hard coding into the simulation (leg type A increases speed and metabolism), or indirectly, through the emergent interactions between a creature's modules (leg type A moves up and down with a frequency of X, which interacts with other legs to create motion). Generally these are simulators which emphasize user creation and accessibility over mutation and evolution.\n\nOrganisms are generally constructed with pre-defined and fixed behaviors that are controlled by various parameters that mutate. That is, each organism contains a collection of numbers or other \"finite\" parameters. Each parameter controls one or several aspects of an organism in a well-defined way.\n\nThese simulations have creatures that learn and grow using neural nets or a close derivative. Emphasis is often, although not always, more on learning than on natural selection.\n\nMathematical models of complex systems are of three types: black-box (phenomenological), white-box (mechanistic, based on the first principles) and grey-box (mixtures of phenomenological and mechanistic models). In black-box models, the individual-based (mechanistic) mechanisms of a complex dynamic system remain hidden. Black-box models are completely nonmechanistic. They are phenomenological and ignore a composition and internal structure of a complex system. We cannot investigate interactions of subsystems of such a non-transparent model. A white-box model of complex dynamic system has ‘transparent walls’ and directly shows underlying mechanisms. All events at micro-, meso- and macro-levels of a dynamic system are directly visible at all stages of its white-box model evolution. In most cases mathematical modelers use the heavy black-box mathematical methods, which cannot produce mechanistic models of complex dynamic systems. Grey-box models are intermediate and combine black-box and white-box approaches. Creation of a white-box model of complex system is associated with the problem of the necessity of an a priori basic knowledge of the modeling subject. The deterministic logical cellular automata are necessary but not sufficient condition of a white-box model. The second necessary prerequisite of a white-box model is the presence of the physical ontology of the object under study. The white-box modeling represents an automatic hyper-logical inference from the first principles because it is completely based on the deterministic logic and axiomatic theory of the subject. The purpose of the white-box modeling is to derive from the basic axioms a more detailed, more concrete mechanistic knowledge about the dynamics of the object under study. The necessity to formulate an intrinsic axiomatic system of the subject before creating its white-box model distinguishes the cellular automata models of white-box type from cellular automata models based on arbitrary logical rules. If cellular automata rules have not been formulated from the first principles of the subject, then such a model may have a weak relevance to the real problem.\n\nHardware-based artificial life mainly consist of \"robots\", that is, automatically guided machines able to do tasks on their own.\n\nBiochemical-based life is studied in the field of synthetic biology. It involves e.g. the creation of synthetic DNA. The term \"wet\" is an extension of the term \"wetware\".\n\n\n\n\n\nAlife has had a controversial history. John Maynard Smith criticized certain artificial life work in 1994 as \"fact-free science\".\n\n"}
{"id": "36136905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36136905", "title": "Avalon explosion", "text": "Avalon explosion\n\nThe Avalon explosion, named from the Precambrian fauna of the Avalon Peninsula, is a proposed evolutionary radiation in the history of the Animalia, about 575 million years ago, some 33 million years earlier than the Cambrian explosion.\n\nTrace fossils of these Avalon organisms have been found worldwide, and represent the earliest known complex multicellular organisms. The Avalon explosion produced the Ediacaran biota. The biota largely disappeared contemporaneously with the rapid increase in biodiversity known as the Cambrian explosion.\n\nThe Avalon explosion appears similar to the Cambrian explosion in the rapid increase in diversity of morphologies in a relatively small time frame, followed by diversification within the established body plans, a pattern similar to that observed in other evolutionary events.\n\nThe Avalon explosion was proposed in 2008 by Virginia Tech paleontologists through the analysis of the morphological space change in several Ediacaran assemblages. The discovery suggests that in the early evolution of animals, there may have been more than one explosive event. The original analysis has been the subject of dispute in the literature.\n"}
{"id": "34248077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34248077", "title": "Bel–Robinson tensor", "text": "Bel–Robinson tensor\n\nIn general relativity and differential geometry, the Bel–Robinson tensor is a tensor defined in the abstract index notation by:\nAlternatively,\nwhere formula_3 is the Weyl tensor. It was introduced by Lluís Bel in 1959. The Bel–Robinson tensor is constructed from the Weyl tensor in a manner analogous to the way the electromagnetic stress–energy tensor is built from the electromagnetic tensor. Like the electromagnetic stress–energy tensor, the Bel–Robinson tensor is totally symmetric and traceless:\nIn general relativity, there is no unique definition of the local energy of the gravitational field. The Bel–Robinson tensor is a possible definition for local energy, since it can be shown that whenever the Ricci tensor vanishes (i.e. in vacuum), the Bel–Robinson tensor is divergence-free:\n"}
{"id": "3400692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3400692", "title": "Bilingual Education Act", "text": "Bilingual Education Act\n\nThe Bilingual Education Act (BEA) (), also known as Title VII of the Elementary and Secondary Education Amendments of 1967 (), approved by the 90th United States Congress on January 2, 1968, and was the first United States federal legislation recognized the needs of limited English speaking ability (LESA) students. The BEA was introduced in 1967 by Texas senator Ralph Yarborough and was signed by President Lyndon B. Johnson on January 2, 1968. While some states, such as California and Texas, and numerous local school districts around the country already had policies and programs designed to meet the special educational needs of elementary and secondary school students not fluent in the English language, this act signaled that the federal government now also recognized the need for and value of bilingual education programs in U.S. public education. Passed on the heels of the Civil Rights movement, its purpose was to provide school districts with federal funds, in the form of competitive grants, to establish innovative educational programs for students with limited English speaking ability.\n\nThe BEA was a significant piece of education legislation. Its passage signaled \"a shift from the notion that students should be afforded equal educational opportunity to the idea that educational policy should work to equalize academic outcomes, even if such equity demanded providing different learning environments.\"\n\nAdditionally, it reflected changes in cultural perspectives towards diversity and immigration. The BEA was an important shift away from the late 1950s anticommunist sentiment where anything foreign was suspect, which had destroyed many earlier local and state attempts at bilingual education. Furthermore, it recognized that the federal government was responsible for educating immigrants to the US and opened doors for bilingual education projects on local, state, and federal levels.\n\nFurthermore, this legislation, successfully enacted into law largely thanks to the efforts of Spanish speakers, has become an important part of the \"polemic between assimilation and multiculturalism\" and the role that language education in our society. Because the BEA in its original form promoted celebrating linguistic and cultural differences and diversity in the U.S., it in many ways challenged assimilationist theories and the \"melting pot\" concept of the U.S. And yet, in its final form when passed, it did not mention the important link between language and culture, leaving the language vague.\n\nThe act additionally opened up a larger need for teachers who could teach language and other content within a language besides English. This placed a strain on the teaching pool available in 1968 and even today there is a shortage of teachers for these highly specialized positions. Culturally, it was argued in this time period that by teaching in a certain language it also taught specific values instead of just a way of communication.\n\nWhen Senator Yarborough introduced the bill to the Senate in 1967, he envisioned it as a way of addressing the \"'poor performance in school and high dropout rates... and great psychological harm' caused by 'English-only policies, no Spanish-speaking rules, and cultural degradation'\" that was evident in many schools at the time.\n\nAlthough the passage of the act was a bipartisan effort on behalf of Republicans and Democrats, it underwent significant changes between 1967 and 1968. Many of these changes were in the wording and framing of the act, which ultimately did not recognize the importance of biculturalism or the benefit of bilingualism or even the link between language and culture. Rather, it framed students of LESA as a \"problem\" that needed to be fixed. In addition, unlike what Yarborough had conceived, it provided no funding for permanent programs regarding students of LESA, as many people feared promoting a sense of entitlement in students and families benefitting from the act.\n\nThe BEA provided school districts with federal funds, in the form of competitive grants, to establish innovative educational programs for students with limited English speaking ability. The grants that the act provided were given directly to school districts and were to be used to buy resources for educational programs, to train teachers and teachers' aides, to develop and distribute materials and to create meaningful parental involvement projects. Although the act did not require the use of bilingual instruction or the use of a student's native language, its aim was to encourage innovative programs designed to teach students English. The act also gave school districts the opportunity to provide bilingual education programs without violating segregation laws, but at this time, participation was voluntary. Program effectiveness was evaluated at the end of every year and successful programs were eligible to receive federal funding for up to five years.\n\nBecause the BEA funding was provided in the form of grants, most of the financial clout lay with local and state education agencies (LEAs and SEAs). However, the federal government limited the reach of these funds in a few significant ways. To begin with, from a simple framing standpoint, the original 1968 BEA did not include any mention of instruction in or maintenance of a student's native language, limiting the potential impact of the act.\n\nFrom a financial perspective, the BEA was also limited. The only programs eligible for receiving funding were programs for children between the ages of 3 and 8. Because it was meant to redress the dropout issue, the act with this caveat on funding viewed high school students of LESA somewhat of a lost cause. In addition, the act did not fund any permanent programs for educating students of LESA, but only funding exploratory programs. As a result, it did not seek to truly address the burgeoning issue of how to educate students who were not English dominant. Lastly, the funds were at first reserved for communities whose average income was below the poverty line stated in the ESEA ($3,000 in 1968). This limitation on funding had the unfortunate side effect of framing the act as a somewhat of a handout to poor, Latino communities.\n\nDue to many of these limitations and the vague wording of much of the BEA, funding was limited in the first three years to $85 million. By 1972, \"only 100,391 students nationally, out of approximately 5,000,000 in need were enrolled in a Title VII-funded program.\"\n\nThe Bilingual Education Act of 1968 was not specific and participation by school districts was voluntary. As a result, Civil rights activists argued that the rights of minority-language students were being violated under this act. In 1974, three amendments were made to the original act in an attempt to clarify the intent and design of programs designated for the education of LESA students. There were two significant events that impacted these changes: the Lau V. Nichols case and the Equal Educational Opportunity Act of 1974.\n\n\"Lau v. Nichols\" was a class-action suit brought against the San Francisco School District and alleged that due to their inability to speak English, there were 1,800 Chinese students who were being denied an equal education. In 1974, the Supreme Court overruled the ruling of the lower courts and determined that the same resources, teachers and curriculum did not imply that the education was equal for students who had a limited command of the English language. In the same year as the Supreme Court's ruling, the Equal Education Opportunity Act was passed. By citing instructional programs as the means through which language barriers were to be broken, it effectively extended the Lau ruling to all students and school districts. Furthermore, school districts were required to have special programs for LESA students regardless of federal or state funding.\n\nThe amendments in 1974 served to do the following: \nFunding increased from $7.5 million in 1968 to $68 million and as a result, programs were able to impact 368,000 students.\n\nIn 1978, further amendments were made to extend the act and broaden the definition of eligible students. Specifically, these amendments served to do the following: \n\nFunding increased from $68 million in 1974 to $135 million which was enough to provide funding for 565 school districts and for secondary programs including service centers, graduate school fellowships and training for undergraduate students interested in becoming bilingual educators.\n\nIn 1984, the Bilingual Education Act was further modified. The amendments enacted during this time served to: \n\nFunding for these amendments was $139.4 million and there was a heavy emphasis placed on districts using the funding to build enough capacity to eventually be able to support LEP programs without federal government funding.\n\nThe BEA was amended again in 1988. The changes this year served to:\n\nFunding for the 1988 amendments was $159 million, with regulations for how the money should be divided. Specifically, at least 60% should be spent developing programs and at least 25% of funds should be spent on training.\n\nThe Bilingual Education Act (BEA) reauthorization in 1994 maintained the same tenets as the original BEA, introduced new grant categories, set up preference to programs promoting bilingualism, and took into account indigenous languages. Overall, the premise of this addition was to introduce a more systemic reform.\n\n\nNo Child Left Behind (NCLB), passed in 2002, had a significant impact on bilingual education and the Bilingual Education Act in the United States due to its emphasis on high-stakes testing. As a result of NCLB and its emphasis on testing, the Bilingual Education Act was renamed the English Language Acquisition, Language Enhancement, and Academic Achievement Act.\n\nThe name change alone of BEA under NCLB is significant in that it signals a shift in the philosophical approach to bilingual education. Essentially, even though the act still leaves with state and local educators the ability to choose from instructional methods, \"the statement of purpose and accountability requirements make clear that the primary objective is English acquisition.\"\n\nUnder NCLB, school success and failure is linked to performance on standardized tests. However, this measure subjects English Language Learners (ELLs) \"to critical assessments without adequate preparation.\" The lack of preparation is due to the fact that NCLB caps funding for bilingual education programs at half of what it had been and does not require that any bilingual education programs undergo periodic evaluation, a measure required by the \"Castenada v. Pickard\" court case. And yet, despite this lack of preparation, ELLs performance on standardized tests can jeopardize a school's access to funding. In essence, \"This turns the question of whether or not a school receives a failing label into a question of how many ELLs attend.\" Because the impact of NCLB on ELLs has significant implications on ELLs and their communities' access to education, NCLB is in conflict with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 in that it denies \"access to a federally funded program based on their skin color or race.\" The changes in the BEA under NCLB created a grant program that attempted to enhance English language acquisition. The ruling placed ELL students in a similar classroom environment as their peers for whom English is not a second language. The law did not require schools to provide bilingual programs and placed them against the rigorous content standards put in place by State Education Agencies. When ELLs were tested with the same state assessments or the National Assessment for Educational Progress (NAEP), it was shown that compared to their fluently English-speaking peers the ELL students displayed larger deficits in both reading and math. The 2007 NAEP test, showed increased deficits in both math and reading following a surge of the ELL population in the United States. By 2005 the number of English-learners throughout the US had risen 57% over the prior decade to approximately 5.1 million students.\n\nAfter NCLB was enacted it was shown that there were sufficient numbers of prospective teachers, yet there were insufficient numbers of these teachers entering certain fields. Among these specializations were science, math, foreign languages, special education and namely bilingual education. Several initiatives formed to specifically recruit teachers to these specialization fields and allowed for alternative certification paths. These teacher shortages continue to exist today and are seen to a greater extent in high-poverty districts.\n\nThe act and NCLB say that the accommodations that it provides should be interpreted in concordance with federal civil rights laws. \"As interpreted by the U.S. Supreme Court, Congress, and federal civil rights officials, these provisions rely on terms like “affirmative steps” and “appropriate action” that give school districts the discretion to use a range of instructional approaches. As a result, under both Title VI and the EEOA, courts and federal enforcement agencies must decide on a case-by-case basis whether programs are in fact overcoming linguistic barriers to full participation.\" The policy still remains highly debated at both the state and federal level.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36033877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36033877", "title": "Bisection (software engineering)", "text": "Bisection (software engineering)\n\nBisection is a method used in software development to identify change sets that result in a specific behavior change. It is mostly employed for finding the patch that introduced a bug. Another application area is finding the patch that indirectly fixed a bug.\n\nThe process of locating the changeset that introduced a specific regression was described as \"source change isolation\" in 1997 by Brian Ness and Viet Ngo of Cray Research. Regression testing was performed on Cray's compilers in editions comprising one or more changesets. Editions with known regressions could not be validated until developers addressed the problem. Source change isolation narrowed the cause to a single changeset that could then be excluded from editions, unblocking them with respect to this problem, while the author of the change worked on a fix. Ness and Ngo outlined linear search and binary search methods of performing this isolation.\n\nCode bisection has the goal of minimizing the effort to find a specific change set.\nIt employs a divide and conquer algorithm that\ndepends on having access to the code history which is usually preserved by\nrevision control in a code repository.\n\nCode history has the structure of a directed acyclic graph which can be topologically sorted. This makes it possible to use a divide and conquer search algorithm which:\n\nBisection is in LSPACE having an algorithmic complexity of formula_1 with formula_2 denoting the number of revisions in the search space, and is similar to a binary search.\n\nFor code bisection it is desirable that each revision in the search space can be built and tested independently.\n\nAlthough the bisection method can be completed manually, one of its main advantages is that it can be easily automated. It can thus fit into existing test automation processes: failures in exhaustive automated regression tests can trigger automated bisection to localize faults. Ness and Ngo focused on its potential in Cray's continuous delivery-style environment in which the automatically-isolated bad changeset could be automatically excluded from builds.\n\nThe revision control systems Git and Mercurial have built-in functionality for code bisection. The user can start a bisection session with a specified range of revisions from which the revision control system proposes a revision to test, the user tells the system whether the revision tested as \"good\" or \"bad\", and the process repeats until the specific \"bad\" revision has been identified. Other revision control systems, such as Bazaar or Subversion, support bisection through plugins or external scripts.\n\nPhoronix Test Suite can do bisection automatically to find performance regressions.\n\n"}
{"id": "27414898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27414898", "title": "Body transfer illusion", "text": "Body transfer illusion\n\nBody transfer illusion is the illusion of owning either a part of a body or an entire body other than one's own, thus it is sometimes referred to as \"body ownership\" in the research literature. It can be induced experimentally by manipulating the visual perspective of the subject and also supplying visual and sensory signals which correlate to the subject's body. For it to occur, bottom-up perceptual mechanisms, such as the input of visual information, must override top-down knowledge that the certain body (or part) does not belong. This is what results in an illusion of transfer of body ownership. It is typically induced using virtual reality.\n\nEhrsson, Spence, and Passingham (2004) did studies on the \"rubber hand illusion\". Subjects with normal brain function were positioned with their left hand hidden out of sight. They saw a lifelike rubber left hand in front of them. The experimenters stroked both the subjects hidden left hand and the visible rubber hand with a paintbrush. The experiment showed that if the two hands were stroked synchronously and in the same direction, the subjects began to experience the rubber hand as their own. When asked to use their right hand to point to their left hand, most of the time they pointed toward the rubber hand. If the real and rubber hands were stroked in different directions or at different times, the subjects did not experience the rubber hand as their own.\n\nWhile the experiment was going on the experimenters also recorded the activity of their brains with a functional MRI scanner. The scans showed increased activity in the parietal lobe and then, right after, as the subjects began to experience the rubber hand as their own, in the premotor cortex, the region of the brain involved in planning movements. On the other hand, when the stroking of the real and rubber hands was uncoordinated and the subjects did not experience the rubber hand as their own, the premotor cortex did not become activated. From this the experimenters concluded that the parietal cortex was involved with visual and touch processing. The premotor cortex, getting transmitted information from the parietal cortex, was involved with the feeling of ownership of the rubber hand.\n\nAnother study from the same laboratory provided further evidence of this ownership of the rubber hand (Ehrsson et al., 2007; Slater et al., 2009). The experimenters used the same procedure as the previous experiment to establish that feeling of ownership involved with the stimulation of the premotor cortex. Then, threatened the rubber hand by making a stabbing movement toward it with a needle (not actually making contact with the rubber hand). MRI scans showed increase activity in a region of the brain called the anterior cingulate cortex that is normally activated when a person anticipates pain, along with the supplementary motor area, that is normally activated when a person feels the urge to move his or her arm (Fried et al., 1991; Peyron, Laurent, and Garcia-Larrea, 2000). The anticipation of the needle made the subjects react as if the rubber hand was their own, moving their real hand to avoid the needle even though it was never actually in danger.\n\nOne of the ways in which body transfer illusion has been studied is through virtual reality simulation where a first person perspective of a life-sized virtual human female body has appeared to substitute the male subjects' own body. This was demonstrated subjectively by questionnaire and physiologically through heart-rate deceleration in response to a threat to the virtual body. The results support the notion that bottom-up perceptual mechanisms, such as those involving the premotor cortex and cerebellum, can temporarily override top down knowledge therefore resulting in a radical illusion of transfer of body ownership. In the study, male participants entered the virtual reality simulation and experienced various forms of stimulation including arm-stroking and other physical sensations. Afterwards the heart rate was monitored and a questionnaire was completed.\n\nBody transfer illusion has been used in order to treat the experience of phantom limb pain by giving visual feedback of the missing limb. The mirror box gives visual feedback that can allow a person using it the opportunity to \"see\" the missing hand, and to manipulate the hand in an attempt to relieve pain or discomfort. Virtual reality is also used to treat phantom limb pain in a similar way, by allowing the user to \"see\" the missing limb within the virtual world and manipulate it however they choose.\n\nThe integration of touch stimulation via the somatosensory system with visual input is essential for creating the body transfer illusion. When the body is not in motion, it perceives its position in space through the integration of multi-modal afferent signals. Motion of the body adds efferent signal information and leads to a more fluid perception of body transfer. When information from one form of signal (e.g. touch) does not match the signals from another sense (e.g. vision), the body still attempts to integrate this information. Specifically the rubber hand illusion is associated with activity in the multisensory areas, most notably the ventral premotor cortex. However, it remains to be demonstrated that this illusion does not simply reflect the dominant role of vision and that the premotor activity does not reflect a visual representation of an object near the hand.\n\nWith ketamine, the body transfer illusion is ultimately enhanced and participants are more vulnerable to a false sense of limb ownership than without the use of ketamine. Although the precise nature of ketamine's impact is speculative, two features of its effects are noteworthy. First, it promotes an overall increase in the subjective and behavioral indexes of the illusion. Second, this effect is found even when a sensory asynchrony is present, a manipulation that would normally reduce the experience of the illusion. This pattern may be understood in terms of the drug's impact on the top-down–bottom-up balance that would normally account for the illusion's characteristic features since ketamine produces an overall increase in tendency to the illusion, whereas this sensitivity to the coherence of visual and tactile input is preserved. A further possibility is that ketamine enhances the salience of the visual input (the sight of a rubber hand in a position compatible with one's own hand) at the expense of information arising from the temporal asynchrony between sensory inputs. This would explain why the presence of the rubber hand is enough to enable the illusion to persist, even when in attenuated form, when visuo-tactile inputs are asynchronous.\n\nA very similar effect occurs with the administration of the dopamine and noradrenaline releasing agent dextroamphetamine. The similarities include increased subjective reports of embodiment of the rubber hand during the illusion, and that the dextroamphetamine enhancing effect is also seen during sensory asynchrony. \n\nHuman bodily experience is characterized by the immediate and continuous experience that our body and its parts belong to us, often called self-attribution, body ownership and or mineness. It is unknown if the origin of body representation is innate or if it is constructed from sensory experience. A related, but distinct, bodily experience is self-localization or embodiment that is defined as the experience that the self is localized at the position of our body at a certain position in space. Recent philosophical and neurological theories converge on the relevance of such bodily experiences and associated processing of bodily information as one promising approach for the development of a comprehensive neurobiological model of self-consciousness. Yet, the scientific investigation of bodily experiences in general, and self-attribution/body ownership and self-localization/embodiment more specifically, have proven difficult and have not received the attention they deserve given their importance for neuroscientific models of self and self-consciousness.\n"}
{"id": "432459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=432459", "title": "Bullying", "text": "Bullying\n\nBullying is the use of force, threat, or coercion to abuse, intimidate or aggressively dominate others. The behavior is often repeated and habitual. One essential prerequisite is the perception, by the bully or by others, of an imbalance of social or physical power, which distinguishes bullying from conflict. Behaviors used to assert such domination can include verbal harassment or threat, physical assault or coercion, and such acts may be directed repeatedly towards particular targets. Rationalizations of such behavior sometimes include differences of social class, race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, appearance, behavior, body language, personality, reputation, lineage, strength, size or ability. If bullying is done by a group, it is called mobbing.\n\nBullying can be defined in many different ways. The United Kingdom has no legal definition of bullying, while some states in the United States have laws against it. Bullying is divided into four basic types of abuse – emotional (sometimes called relational), verbal, physical, and cyber. It typically involves subtle methods of coercion, such as intimidation.\n\nBullying ranges from one-on-one, individual bullying through to group bullying called mobbing, in which the bully may have one or more \"lieutenants\" who may seem to be willing to assist the primary bully in his or her bullying activities. Bullying in school and the workplace is also referred to as peer abuse. Robert W. Fuller has analyzed bullying in the context of rankism.\n\nA bullying culture can develop in any context in which humans interact with each other. This includes school, family, the workplace, home, and neighborhoods. The main platform for bullying is on social media websites. In a 2012 study of male adolescent American football players, \"the strongest predictor [of bullying] was the perception of whether the most influential male in a player's life would approve of the bullying behavior\".\n\nThere is no universal definition of bullying, however, it is widely agreed upon that bullying is a subcategory of aggressive behavior characterized by the following three minimum criteria: (1) hostile intent, (2) imbalance of power and (3) repetition over a period of time. Bullying may thus be defined as the activity of repeated, aggressive behavior intended to hurt another individual, physically, mentally or emotionally.\n\nThe Norwegian researcher Dan Olweus says bullying occurs when a person is \"exposed, repeatedly and over time, to negative actions on the part of one or more other persons\". He says negative actions occur \"when a person intentionally inflicts injury or discomfort upon another person, through physical contact, through words or in other ways.\" Individual bullying is usually characterized by a person behaving in a certain way to gain power over another person.\n\nIndividual bullying can be classified into four types. Collective bullying is known as mobbing, and can include any of the individual types of bullying.\n\nPhysical, verbal, and relational bullying are most prevalent in primary school and could also begin much earlier whilst continuing into later stages in individuals lives. It is stated that Cyber-bullying is more common in secondary school than in primary school.\n\nIndividual bullying tactics can be perpetrated by a single person against a target or targets.\n\nThis is any bullying that hurts someone's body or damages their possessions. Stealing, shoving, hitting, fighting, and destroying property all are types of physical bullying. Physical bullying is rarely the first form of bullying that a target will experience. Often bullying will begin in a different form and later progress to physical violence. In physical bullying the main weapon the bully uses is their body when attacking their target. Sometimes groups of young adults will target and alienate a peer because of some adolescent prejudice. This can quickly lead to a situation where they are being taunted, tortured, and beaten-up by their classmates. Physical bullying will often escalate over time, and can lead to a tragic ending, and therefore must be stopped quickly to prevent any further escalation.\n\nThis is any bullying that is conducted by speaking. Calling names, spreading rumors, threatening somebody, and making fun of others are all forms of verbal bullying. Verbal bullying is one of the most common types of bullying. In verbal bullying the main weapon the bully uses is their \"voice\". In many cases, verbal bullying is the province of girls. Girls are more subtle (and can be more devastating), in general, than boys. Girls use verbal bullying, as well as social exclusion techniques, to dominate and control other individuals and show their superiority and power. However, there are also many boys with subtlety enough to use verbal techniques for domination, and who are practiced in using words when they want to avoid the trouble that can come with physically bullying someone else.\n\nThis is any bullying that is done with the intent to hurt somebody's reputation or social standing which can also link in with the techniques included in physical and verbal bullying. Relational Bullying is a form of bullying common amongst youth, but particularly upon girls. Relational bullying can be used as a tool by bullies to both improve their social standing and control others. Unlike physical bullying which is obvious, relational bullying is not overt and can continue for a long time without being noticed.\n\nCyber bullying is the use of technology to harass, threaten, embarrass, or target another person. When an adult is involved, it may meet the definition of cyber-harassment or cyberstalking, a crime that can have legal consequences and involve jail time. This includes email, instant messaging, social networking sites (such as Facebook), text messages, and cell phones.\n\nCollective bullying tactics are employed by more than one individual against a target or targets. Trolling behavior on social media, although generally assumed to be individual in nature by the casual reader, is sometime organized efforts by sponsored astroturfers.\n\nMobbing refers to the bullying of an individual by a group, in any context, such as a family, peer group, school, workplace, neighborhood, community, or online. When it occurs as emotional abuse in the workplace, such as \"ganging up\" by co-workers, subordinates or superiors, to force someone out of the workplace through rumor, innuendo, intimidation, humiliation, discrediting, and isolation, it is also referred to as malicious, nonsexual, nonracial / racial, general harassment.\n\nStudies have shown that envy and resentment may be motives for bullying. Research on the self-esteem of bullies has produced equivocal results. While some bullies are arrogant and narcissistic, they can also use bullying as a tool to conceal shame or anxiety or to boost self-esteem: by demeaning others, the abuser feels empowered. Bullies may bully out of jealousy or because they themselves are bullied. Psychologist Roy Baumeister asserts that people who are prone to abusive behavior tend to have inflated but fragile egos. Because they think too highly of themselves, they are frequently offended by the criticisms and lack of deference of other people, and react to this disrespect with violence and insults.\n\nResearchers have identified other risk factors such as depression and personality disorders, as well as quickness to anger and use of force, addiction to aggressive behaviors, mistaking others' actions as hostile, concern with preserving self-image, and engaging in obsessive or rigid actions. A combination of these factors may also be causes of this behavior. In one study of youth, a combination of antisocial traits and depression was found to be the best predictor of youth violence, whereas video game violence and television violence exposure were not predictive of these behaviors.\n\nBullying may also result from a genetic predisposition or a brain abnormality in the bully. While parents can help a toddler develop emotional regulation and control to restrict aggressive behavior, some children fail to develop these skills due to insecure attachment with their families, ineffective discipline, and environmental factors such as a stressful home life and hostile siblings. Moreover, according to some researchers, bullies may be inclined toward negativity and perform poorly academically. Dr. Cook says that \"a typical bully has trouble resolving problems with others and also has trouble academically. He or she usually has negative attitudes and beliefs about others, feels negatively toward himself/herself, comes from a family environment characterized by conflict and poor parenting, perceives school as negative and is negatively influenced by peers\".\n\nContrarily, some researchers have suggested that some bullies are psychologically strongest and have high social standing among their peers, while their targets are emotionally distressed and socially marginalized. Peer groups often promote the bully's actions, and members of these peer groups also engage in behaviors, such as mocking, excluding, punching, and insulting one another as a source of entertainment. Other researchers also argued that a minority of the bullies, those who are not in-turn bullied, enjoy going to school, and are least likely to take days off sick.\n\nResearch indicates that adults who bully have authoritarian personalities, combined with a strong need to control or dominate. It has also been suggested that a prejudicial view of subordinates can be a particularly strong risk factor.\n\nOften, bullying takes place in the presence of a large group of relatively uninvolved bystanders. In many cases, it is the bully's ability to create the illusion that he or she has the support of the majority present that instills the fear of \"speaking out\" in protestation of the bullying activities being observed by the group. Unless the \"bully mentality\" is effectively challenged in any given group in its early stages, it often becomes an accepted, or supported, norm within the group.\n\nUnless action is taken, a \"culture of bullying\" is often perpetuated within a group for months, years, or longer.\n\nBystanders who have been able to establish their own \"friendship group\" or \"support group\" have been found to be far more likely to opt to speak out against bullying behavior than those who have not.\n\nIn addition to communication of clear expectations that bystanders should intervene and increasing individual self-efficacy, there is growing research that suggests interventions should build on the foundation that bullying is morally wrong.\n\nAmong adults, being a bystander to workplace bullying was linked to depression, particularly in women.\n\nDr. Cook says that \"A typical victim is likely to be aggressive, lack social skills, think negative thoughts, experience difficulties in solving social problems, come from a negative family, school and community environments and be noticeably rejected and isolated by peers\". Victims often have characteristics such as being physically weak, as well as being easily distraught emotionally. They may also have physical characteristics that make them easier targets for bullies such as being overweight or having some type of physical deformity. Boys are more likely to be victims of physical bullying while girls are more likely to be bullied indirectly.\n\nThe results of a meta-analysis conducted by Cook and published by the American Psychological Association in 2010 concluded the main risk factors for children and adolescents being bullied, and also for becoming bullies, are the lack of social problem-solving skills.\n\nChildren who are bullied often show physical or emotional signs, such as: being afraid to attend school, complaining of headaches or a loss of appetite, a lack of interest in school activities and spending time with friends or family, and having an overall sense of sadness.\n\nMona O'Moore of the Anti-Bullying Centre at Trinity College in Dublin, has written, \"There is a growing body of research which indicates that individuals, whether child or adult, who are persistently subjected to abusive behavior are at risk of stress related illness which can sometimes lead to suicide\".\nThose who have been the targets of bullying can suffer from long term emotional and behavioral problems. Bullying can cause loneliness, depression, anxiety, lead to low self-esteem and increased susceptibility to illness. Bullying has also been shown to cause maladjustment in young children, and targets of bullying who were also bullies themselves exhibit even greater social difficulties. A mental health report also found that bullying was linked to eating disorders, anxiety, body dysmorphia and other negative psychological effects.\n\nEven though there is evidence that bullying increases the risk of suicide, bullying alone does not cause suicide. Depression is one of the main reasons why kids who are bullied die by suicide. It is estimated that between 15 and 25 children die by suicide every year in the UK alone because they are being bullied. Certain groups seem to incur a higher risk for suicide, such as Native Americans, Alaskan Natives, Asian Americans, and LGBT people. When someone feels unsupported by his or her family or friends, it can make the situation much worse for the victim.\n\nIn a self-report study completed in New York by 9th through 12th graders, victims of bullying reported more depressive symptoms and psychological distress than those who did not experience bullying. All types of involvement in bullying among boys and girls, respectively, is associated with depression even a couple years later. Another study that followed up with Finnish teens two years after the initial survey showed that depression and suicidal ideation is higher with teens who are bullied than those who did not report experiencing bullying.  A Dutch longitudinal study on elementary students reported that boys who are bully-victims, who play both roles of a victim and a bully, were more likely to experience depression or serious suicidal ideation than the other roles, victims or bullies only, while girls who have any involvement in bullying have a higher level of risk for depression. In a study of high school students completed in Boston, students who self reported being victims of bullying were more likely to consider suicide when compared to youth who did not report being bullied. The same study also showed a higher risk of suicidal consideration in youth who report being a perpetrator, victim, or victim-perpetrator. Victims and victim-bullies are associated with a higher risk of suicide attempts. The place where youth live also appears to differentiate their bullying experiences such that those living in more urban areas who reported both being bullied and bullying others appear to show higher risk of suicidal ideation and suicide attempts. A national survey given to American 6th through 10th grade students found that cyberbullying victims experience a higher level of depression than victims experiencing other forms of bullying. This can be related to the anonymity behind social media. If a teen is being bullied and is displaying symptoms of depression it should be questioned and interventions should be implemented. The Danish study showed that kids who are bullied talked to their parents and teachers about it and some reported a decrease in bullying or a stop in the bullying after a teacher or parent intervened. The study emphasizes the importance of implementing program-collaborations in schools to have programs and anti-bullying interventions in place to prevent and properly intervene when it occurs. The study also shows the importance of having parents and teachers talk to the bullies about their bullying behavior in order to provide the necessary support for those experiencing bullying.\n\nWhile some people find it very easy to ignore a bully, others may find it very difficult and reach a breaking point. There have been cases of apparent bullying suicides that have been reported closely by the media. These include the deaths of Ryan Halligan, Phoebe Prince, Dawn-Marie Wesley, Nicola Ann Raphael, Megan Meier, Audrie Pott, Tyler Clementi, Jamey Rodemeyer, Kenneth Weishuhn, Jadin Bell, Kelly Yeomans, Rehtaeh Parsons, Amanda Todd, Brodie Panlock, Jessica Haffer, Hamed Nastoh, Sladjana Vidovic, April Himes, Cherice Moralez and Rebecca Ann Sedwick. According to the suicide awareness voices for education, suicide is one of the leading causes of death for youth from 15 to 24 years old. Over 16 percent of students seriously consider suicide, 13 percent create a plan, and 8 percent have made a serious attempt.\n\nSome have argued that bullying can teach life lessons and instill strength. Helene Guldberg, a child development academic, sparked controversy when she argued that being a target of bullying can teach a child \"how to manage disputes and boost their ability to interact with others\", and that teachers should not intervene, but leave children to respond to the bullying themselves.\n\nThe teaching of such anti-bullying coping skills to \"would-be-targets\" and to others has been found to be an effective long term means of reducing bullying incidence rates and a valuable skill-set for individuals.\n\nResearch on the dark triad (narcissism, Machiavellianism and psychopathy) indicate a correlation with bullying as part of evidence of the aversive nature of those traits.\n\nA bully may project his/her own feelings of vulnerability onto the target(s) of the bullying activity. Despite the fact that a bully's typically denigrating activities are aimed at the bully's targets, the true source of such negativity is ultimately almost always found in the bully's own sense of personal insecurity and/or vulnerability. Such aggressive projections of displaced negative emotions can occur anywhere from the micro-level of interpersonal relationships, all the way up through to the macro-level of international politics, or even international armed conflict.\n\nBullying is abusive social interaction between peers which can include aggression, harassment, and violence. Bullying is typically repetitive and enacted by those who are in a position of power over the victim. A growing body of research illustrates a significant relationship between bullying and emotional intelligence (EI). Mayer et al., (2008) defines the dimensions of overall EI as: \"accurately perceiving emotion, using emotions to facilitate thought, understanding emotion, and managing emotion\". The concept combines emotional and intellectual processes. Lower emotional intelligence appears to be related to involvement in bullying, as the bully and/or the victim of bullying. EI seems to play an important role in both bullying behavior and victimization in bullying; given that EI is illustrated to be malleable, EI education could greatly improve bullying prevention and intervention initiatives.\n\nCyberbullying is any bullying done through the use of technology. This form of bullying can easily go undetected because of lack of parental/authoritative supervision. Because bullies can pose as someone else, it is the most anonymous form of bullying. Cyberbullying includes, but is not limited to, abuse using email, instant messaging, text messaging, websites, social networking sites, etc. With the creation of social networks like Facebook, Myspace, Instagram, and Twitter, cyberbullying has increased. Particular watchdog organizations have been designed to contain the spread of cyberbullying.\n\nIt has been noted that disabled people are disproportionately affected by bullying and abuse, and such activity has been cited as a hate crime. The bullying is not limited to those who are visibly disabled, such as wheelchair-users or physically deformed such as those with a cleft lip, but also those with learning disabilities, such as autism and developmental coordination disorder.\n\nThere is an additional problem that those with learning disabilities are often not as able to explain things to other people, so are more likely to be disbelieved or ignored if they do complain.\n\nGay bullying and gay bashing designate direct or indirect verbal or physical actions by a person or group against someone who is gay or lesbian, or perceived to be so due to rumors or because they are considered to fit gay stereotypes. Gay and lesbian youth are more likely than straight youth to report bullying.\n\nLegal bullying is the bringing of a vexatious legal action to control and punish a person. Legal bullying can often take the form of frivolous, repetitive, or burdensome lawsuits brought to intimidate the defendant into submitting to the litigant's request, not because of the legal merit of the litigant's position, but principally due to the defendant's inability to maintain the legal battle. This can also take the form of Strategic Lawsuit Against Public Participation (SLAPP). It was partially concern about the potential for this kind of abuse that helped to fuel the protests against SOPA and PIPA in the United States in 2011 and 2012.\n\nIn 2000, the UK Ministry of Defence (MOD) defined bullying as \"the use of physical strength or the abuse of authority to intimidate or victimize others, or to give unlawful punishments\".\n\nSome argue that this behaviour should be allowed, due to ways in which \"soldiering\" is different from other occupations. Soldiers expected to risk their lives should, according to them, develop strength of body and spirit to accept bullying.\n\nParents who may displace their anger, insecurity, or a persistent need to dominate and control upon their children in excessive ways have been proven to increase the likelihood that their own children will in turn become overly aggressive or controlling towards their peers.\nThe American Psychological Association advises on its website that parents who may suspect that their own children may be engaging in bullying activities among their peers should carefully consider the examples which they themselves may be setting for their own children regarding how they typically interact with their own peers, colleagues, and children.\n\nAn environment known for bullying is in prisons. An additional complication is the staff and their relationships with the inmates. Thus the following possible bullying scenarios are possible:\n\nBullying can occur in nearly any part in or around the school building, although it may occur more frequently during physical education classes and activities such as recess. Bullying also takes place in school hallways, bathrooms, on school buses and while waiting for buses, and in classes that require group work and/or after school activities. Bullying in school sometimes consists of a group of students taking advantage of or isolating one student in particular and gaining the loyalty of bystanders who want to avoid becoming the next target. In the 2011 documentary \"Bully\", we see first hand the torture that kids go through both in school and while on the school bus. As the movie follows around a few kids we see how bullying affects them both at school as well as in their homes. While bullying has no age limit, these bullies may taunt and tease their target before finally physically bullying them. Bystanders typically choose to either participate or watch, sometimes out of fear of becoming the next target.\n\nBullying can also be perpetrated by teachers and the school system itself; there is an inherent power differential in the system that can easily predispose to subtle or covert abuse (relational aggression or passive aggression), humiliation, or exclusion — even while maintaining overt commitments to anti-bullying policies.\n\nIn 2016, in Canada, a North American legal precedent was set by a mother and her son, after the son was bullied in his public school. The mother and son won a court case against the Ottawa-Carleton District School Board, making this the first case in North America where a school board has been found negligent in a bullying case for failing to meet the standard of care (the \"duty of care\" that the school board owes to its students). Thus, it sets a precedent of a school board being found liable in negligence for harm caused to a child, because they failed to protect a child from the bullying actions of other students. There has been only one other similar bullying case and it was won in Australia in 2013 (Oyston v. St. Patricks College, 2013).\n\nSexual bullying is \"Any bullying behaviour, whether physical or non-physical, that is based on a person's sexuality or gender. It is when sexuality or gender is used as a weapon by boys or girls towards other boys or girls – although it is more commonly directed at girls. It can be carried out to a person's face, behind their back or through the use of technology.\"\n\nTrans bashing is the act of victimizing a person physically, sexually, or verbally because they are transgender or transsexual. Unlike gay bashing, it is committed because of the target's actual or perceived gender identity, not sexual orientation.\n\nWorkplace bullying occurs when an employee experiences a persistent pattern of mistreatment from others in the workplace that causes harm. Workplace bullying can include such tactics as verbal, nonverbal, psychological, physical abuse and humiliation. This type of workplace aggression is particularly difficult because, unlike the typical forms of school bullying, workplace bullies often operate within the established rules and policies of their organization and their society. Bullying in the workplace is in the majority of cases reported as having been perpetrated by someone in authority over the target. However, bullies can also be peers, and occasionally can be subordinates.\n\nThe first known documented use of \"workplace bullying\" is in 1992 in a book by Andrea Adams called \"Bullying at Work: How to Confront and Overcome It\".\n\nResearch has also investigated the impact of the larger organizational context on bullying as well as the group-level processes that impact on the incidence, and maintenance of bullying behavior. Bullying can be covert or overt. It may be missed by superiors or known by many throughout the organization. Negative effects are not limited to the targeted individuals, and may lead to a decline in employee morale and a change in organizational culture. A Cochrane Collaboration systematic review has found very low quality evidence to suggest that organizational and individual interventions may prevent bullying behaviors in the workplace.\n\nBullying in academia is workplace bullying of scholars and staff in academia, especially places of higher education such as colleges and universities. It is believed to be common, although has not received as much attention from researchers as bullying in some other contexts.\n\nBullying has been identified as prominent in blue collar jobs, including on oil rigs and in mechanic shops and machine shops. It is thought that intimidation and fear of retribution cause decreased incident reports. In industry sectors dominated by males, typically of little education, where disclosure of incidents are seen as effeminate, reporting in the socioeconomic and cultural milieu of such industries would likely lead to a vicious circle. This is often used in combination with manipulation and coercion of facts to gain favour among higher-ranking administrators.\n\nA culture of bullying is common in information technology (IT), leading to high sickness rates, low morale, poor productivity, and high staff-turnover. Deadline-driven project work and stressed-out managers take their toll on IT workers.\n\nBullying in the legal profession is believed to be more common than in some other professions. It is believed that its adversarial, hierarchical tradition contributes towards this. Women, trainees and solicitors who have been qualified for five years or less are more impacted, as are ethnic minority lawyers and lesbian, gay and bisexual lawyers.\n\nBullying in the medical profession is common, particularly of student or trainee doctors and of nurses. It is thought that this is at least in part an outcome of conservative traditional hierarchical structures and teaching methods in the medical profession, which may result in a bullying cycle.\n\nEven though The American Nurses Association believes that all nursing personnel have the right to work in safe, non-abusive environments, bullying has been identified as being particularly prevalent in the nursing profession although the reasons are not clear. It is thought that relational aggression (psychological aspects of bullying such as gossipping and intimidation) are relevant. Relational aggression has been studied among girls but not so much among adult women.\n\nSchool teachers are commonly the subject of bullying but they are also sometimes the originators of bullying within a school environment.\n\nAs the verb \"to bully\" is defined as simply \"forcing one's way aggressively or by intimidation\", the term may generally apply to any life experience where one is motivated primarily by intimidation instead of by more positive goals, such as mutually shared interests and benefits. As such, any figure of authority or power who may use intimidation as a primary means of motivating others, such as a neighborhood \"protection racket don\", a national dictator, a childhood ring-leader, a terrorist, a terrorist organization, or even a ruthless business CEO, could rightfully be referred to as a bully. According to psychologist Pauline Rennie-Peyton, we each face the possibility of being bullied in any phase of our lives.\n\nChildren have been observed bullying anthropomorphic robots designed to assist the elderly. Their attacks start with blocking the robots' paths of movement and then escalate to verbal abuse, hitting and destroying the object. Seventy-five percent of the kids interviewed perceived the robot as \"human-like\" yet decided to abuse it anyway, while 35% of the kids who beat up the robot actually did so \"for enjoyment.\".\n\nBullying prevention is the collective effort to prevent, reduce and stop bullying. Many campaigns and events are designated to bullying prevention throughout the world. Bullying prevention campaigns and events include: Anti-Bullying Day, Anti-Bullying Week, International Day of Pink, International STAND UP to Bullying Day and National Bullying Prevention Month. Anti-Bullying laws in the U.S. have also been enacted in 23 of its 50 states, making bullying in schools illegal.\n\nBullying is typically ongoing and not isolated behaviour. Common ways that people try to respond, are to try to ignore it, to confront the bullies or to turn to an authority figure to try and address it.\n\nIgnoring it often does nothing to stop the bullying continuing, and it can become worse over time.\nIt can be important to address bullying behaviour early on, as it can be easier to control the earlier it is detected.\nBystanders play an important role in responding to bullying, as doing nothing can encourage it to continue, while small steps that oppose the behaviour can reduce it.\n\nAuthority figures can play an important role, such as parents in child or adolescent situations, or supervisors, human-resources staff or parent-bodies in workplace and volunteer settings. Authority figures can be influential in recognising and stopping bullying behaviour, and creating an environment where it doesn't continue.\nIn many situations however people acting as authority figures are untrained and unqualified, do not know how to respond, and can make the situation worse.\nIn some cases the authority figures even support the people doing the bullying, facilitating it continuing and increasing the isolation and marginalising of the target.\nSome of the most effective ways to respond, are to recognise that harmful behaviour is taking place, and creating an environment where it won't continue.\nPeople that are being targeted have little control over which authority figures they can turn to and how such matters would be addressed, however one means of support is to find a counsellor or psychologist that is trained in handling bullying.\n\nThe word \"bully\" was first used in the 1530s meaning \"sweetheart\", applied to either sex, from the Dutch \"boel\" \"lover, brother\", probably diminutive of Middle High German \"buole\" \"brother\", of uncertain origin (compare with the German \"buhle\" \"lover\"). The meaning deteriorated through the 17th century through \"fine fellow\", \"blusterer\", to \"harasser of the weak\". This may have been as a connecting sense between \"lover\" and \"ruffian\" as in \"protector of a prostitute\", which was one sense of \"bully\" (though not specifically attested until 1706). The verb \"to bully\" is first attested in 1710.\n\nIn the past, in American culture, the term has been used differently, as an exclamation/exhortation, in particular famously associated with Theodore Roosevelt and continuing to the present in the bully pulpit and also as faint/deprecating praise (\"bully for him\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "528014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=528014", "title": "Cognitive Research Trust", "text": "Cognitive Research Trust\n\nThe Cognitive Research Trust was founded by the Maltese physician and cognitive specialist Edward de Bono in July 1969. The trust uses a number of thinking tools based on the premise that thinking is a skill that can be developed and learned. CoRT lessons have been taught in schools worldwide, including the third world. Bangladesh has profited by application of CoRT tools.\n\n"}
{"id": "37596728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37596728", "title": "Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities", "text": "Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities\n\nThe Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities (CRL Rights Commission) is an independent chapter nine institution in South Africa. It draws its mandate from the South African Constitution by way of the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities Act of 2002.\n\nThe CRL Rights Commission is mandated \"to promote respect for and further the protection of the rights of cultural, religious and linguistic communities; promote and develop peace, friendship, humanity, tolerance, national unity among and within cultural, religious and linguistic communities on the basis of equality, non-discrimination and free association; to promote the right of communities to develop their historically diminished heritage and to recognise community councils\".\n\nThe vision of the CRL Rights Commission is \"a united South African nation that protects and promotes the cultural, religious and linguistic rights of all its diverse communities\". Its mission is to \"promote and protect the rights of cultural, religious and linguistic communities\".\n\nOn 2 April 2014, 12 new commissioners of the CRL Commission were inaugurated at the Constitutional Court. This was subsequent to their appointment by President Jacob Zuma in terms of section 11(4) read with 13(1) of the CRL Rights Commission Act 19 of 2002 with effect from 1 March 2014, for a period of five years. The inauguration ceremony was presided over by Justice Edwin Cameron.The 12 new members of the CRL Rights Commission are:\n\nMs Thoko Nonhle Mkhwanazi-Xaluva (Chairperson)\n\nProf Luka David Mosoma (Deputy Chairperson)\n\nDr Anton Wynard Knoetze\n\nMr Renier Stephanus Schoeman\n\nMr Sicelo Emmanuel Dlamini\n\nMr Raymond Trollip\n\nMr Richard Daryll Botha\n\nMs Violet Nomalanga Tyamzashe\n\nMs Bernedette Muthien\n\nMs Pumla Primrose Madiba\n\nMs Helen Julia Mabale\n\nMs Sheila Fihliwe Khama.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4614488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4614488", "title": "Compossibility", "text": "Compossibility\n\nCompossibility is a philosophical concept from Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz. According to Leibniz, a complete individual thing (for example a person) is characterized by all its properties, and these determine its relations with other individuals. The existence of one individual may contradict the existence of another. A possible world is made up of individuals that are compossible—that is, individuals that can exist together. Leibniz indicates that a world is a set of compossible things, however, that a world is a kind of collection of things that God could bring into existence. For not even God can bring into existence a world in which there is some contradiction among its members or their properties.\n\nWhen Leibniz speaks of a possible world, he means a set of compossible, finite things that God could have brought into existence if he were not constrained by the goodness that is part of his nature. The actual world, on the other hand, is simply that set of finite things that is instantiated by God, because it is greatest in goodness, reality and perfection. Naturally, the fact that we are here experiencing this world—the actual world—means that there is at least one possible world. In Leibniz's view, there are an infinite number of possible worlds.\n\nAccording to the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" entry on Leibniz's Modal Metaphysics by Brandon C. Look, views on \"compossibility\" and the closely related best of all possible worlds argument are to be found in \"On the Ultimate Origination of Things\", \"The Discourse in Metaphysics\", \"On Freedom\", and throughout his works. The term itself is found in \"The Philosophical Writings III\" [\"Die philosophischen Schriften III\"] when Leibniz writes to Louis Bourguet.\n\nAlain Badiou borrows this concept in defining philosophy as the creation of a \"space of compossibility\" for heterogeneous truths.\n\nGilles Deleuze uses it in \"Cinema II\" taking support from Leibniz's explanation of the problem of future contingents.\n\n"}
{"id": "164465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=164465", "title": "Conceit", "text": "Conceit\n\nIn modern literary criticism, in particular of genre fiction, conceit frequently means an extended rhetorical device, summed up in a short phrase, that refers to a situation which either does not exist or exists very infrequently but which is necessary to the plot. \"Faster than light travel\" and \"superior alien science\" are examples from science fiction; the \"hardboiled private gumshoe\" is an example from detective stories.\n\nThe word conceit was originally coined in the context of poetry, deriving from the root \"concept, conceive\". It has subsequently been extended to other forms of literature, the performing arts, painting, photography, and even architecture.\n\nThe term conceit can be used positively or derogatorily.\n\n\nIn modern writing (e.g., reviews of movies or books, or descriptions of others' inventions or ideas), the word \"conceit\", when used by itself without preceding adjectives (such as \"brilliant\" or \"unpersuasive\"), tends to be used more often as criticism than as praise. Such use is especially common when writing for a broad audience rather than specialists in poetry or literary criticism. Which sense is actually intended, however, must be inferred from the overall content and tone of the passage containing the phrase.\n\nIn English literature the term is generally associated with the 17th century metaphysical poets, an extension of contemporary usage. The metaphysical conceit differs from an extended analogy in the sense that it does not have a clear-cut relationship between the things being compared. Helen Gardner observed that \"a conceit is a comparison whose ingenuity is more striking than its justness\" and that \"a comparison becomes a conceit when we are made to concede likeness while being strongly conscious of unlikeness.\" An example of the latter occurs in John Donne's \"A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning\", in which a couple faced with absence from each other is likened to a compass.\n\n<poem>\nDull sublunary lovers' love\nAbsence, because it doth remove\n\nBut we by a love so much refined,\nInter-assured of the mind,\n\nOur two souls therefore, which are one,\nA breach, but an expansion,\n\nIf they be two, they are two so\nThy soul, the fixed foot, makes no show\n\nAnd though it in the center sit,\nIt leans and hearkens after it,\n\nSuch wilt thou be to me, who must,\nThy firmness makes my circle just,\n\nThe metaphysical conceit is often imaginative, exploring specific parts of an experience. John Donne's \"\" is a poem seemingly about fleas in a bed. When Sir Philip Sidney begins a sonnet with the conventional idiomatic expression \"My true-love hath my heart and I have his\", he takes the metaphor literally and teases out a number of literal possibilities in the exchange of hearts. The result is a fully formed conceit.\n\nThe Petrarchan conceit is a form of love poetry wherein a man's love interest is referred to in hyperbole. For instance, the lover is a ship on a stormy sea, and his mistress is either \"a cloud of dark disdain\" or the sun.\n\nThe paradoxical pain and pleasure of lovesickness is often described using oxymoron, for instance uniting peace and war, burning and freezing, and so forth. But images which were novel in the sonnets of Petrarch, in his innovative exploration of human feelings, became clichés in the poetry of later imitators. Romeo uses hackneyed Petrarchan conceits when describing his love for Rosaline as \"bright smoke, cold fire, sick health\".\n\nIn the Renaissance, the term (which is related to the word concept) indicated any particularly fanciful expression of wit, and was later used pejoratively of outlandish poetic metaphors.\n\nRecent literary critics have used the term to mean simply the style of extended and heightened metaphor common in the Renaissance and particularly in the 17th century, without any particular indication of value. Within this critical sense, the Princeton Encyclopedia makes a distinction between two kinds of conceits: the Metaphysical conceit, described above, and the Petrarchan conceit. In the latter, human experiences are described in terms of an outsized metaphor (a kind of metaphorical hyperbole), like the stock comparison of eyes to the sun, which Shakespeare makes light of in his Sonnet 130: \"My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17306829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17306829", "title": "Conceptual necessity", "text": "Conceptual necessity\n\nConceptual necessity is a property of the certainty with which a state of affairs, as presented by a certain description, occurs: it occurs by conceptual necessity if and only if it occurs just by virtue of the meaning of the description. If someone is a bachelor, for instance, then he is bound to be unmarried by conceptual necessity, because the meaning of the word \"bachelor\" determines that he is.\n\nAlternatively, there is metaphysical necessity, which is a certainty determined, not by the meaning of a description, but instead by facts in the world described.\n\nHistorically, Baruch Spinoza was a subscriber to this belief.\n\n"}
{"id": "1561997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1561997", "title": "Contorsion tensor", "text": "Contorsion tensor\n\nThe contorsion tensor in differential geometry is the difference between a connection with and without torsion in it. It commonly appears in the study of spin connections. Thus, for example, a vielbein together with a spin connection, when subject to the condition of vanishing torsion, gives a description of Einstein gravity. For supersymmetry, the same constraint, of vanishing torsion, gives (the field equations of) 11-dimensional supergravity. That is, the contorsion tensor, along with the connection, becomes one of the dynamical objects of the theory, demoting the metric to a secondary, derived role.\n\nThe elimination of torsion in a connection is referred to as the \"absorption of torsion\", and is one of the steps of Cartan's equivalence method for establishing the equivalence of geometric structures.\n\nIn metric geometry, the contorsion tensor expresses the difference between a metric-compatible affine connection with Christoffel symbol formula_1 and the unique torsion-free Levi-Civita connection for the same metric.\n\nThe contorsion tensor formula_2 is defined in terms of the torsion tensor formula_3 as \n\nwhere the indices are being raised and lowered with respect to the metric:\n\nThe reason for the non-obvious sum in the definition is that the contorsion tensor, being the difference between two metric-compatible Christoffel symbols, must be antisymmetric in the last two indices, whilst the torsion tensor itself is antisymmetric in its first two indices.\n\nThe connection can now be written as \n\nwhere formula_7 is the torsion-free Levi-Civita connection.\n\nIt can be shown that the geodesics for both connections are the same: that is, the any geodesic of formula_7 is also a geodesic of formula_9 and \"vice-versa\".\n\nIn affine geometry, one does not have a metric nor a metric connection, and so one is not free raise and lower indices on demand. One can still achieve a similar effect by making use of the solder form, allowing the bundle to be related to what is happening on its base space. This is an explicitly geometric viewpoint, with tensors now being geometric objects in the vertical and horizontal bundles of a fiber bundle, instead of being indexed algebraic objects defined only on the base space. In this case, one may construct a contorsion tensor, living as a one-form on the tangent bundle. \n\nRecall that the torsion of a connection formula_10 can be expressed as \n\nwhere formula_12 is the solder form (tautological one-form). The subscript formula_10 serves only as a reminder that this torsion tensor was obtained from the connection.\n\nThat is, one may construct a tensor \n\nHere formula_15 is the scalar product. This tensor can be expressed as\n\nThe quantity formula_17 is the contorsion form and is \"exactly\" what is needed to add to an arbitrary connection to get the torsion-free Levi-Civita connection. That is, given an Ehresmann connection formula_10, there is another connection formula_19 that is torsion-free.\n\nThe vanishing of the torsion is then equivalent to having \n\nor \n\nThis can be viewed as a field equation relating the dynamics of the connection to that of the contorsion tensor.\n\nIn the theory of teleparallelism, one encounters a connection, the Weitzenböck connection, which is flat (vanishing Riemann curvature) but has a non-vanishing torsion. The flatness is exactly what allows parallel frame fields to be constructed. These notions can be extended to supermanifolds.\n"}
{"id": "2189949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2189949", "title": "Corner solution", "text": "Corner solution\n\nA corner solution is a special solution to an agent's maximization problem in which the quantity of one of the arguments in the maximized function is zero. In non-technical terms,:3 a corner solution is when the chooser is either unwilling or unable to make a tradeoff. In economics when someone says \"I wouldn't buy that at any price\" or \"I will do X no matter the cost\", those are corner solutions. Another example is \"zero-tolerance\" policies, or parents who are unwilling to expose their children to any risk, no matter how small and no matter what the benefits of the activity might be. \"Nothing is more important than my child's safety\" is a corner solution in its refusal to admit there might be tradeoffs. The term \"corner solution\" is sometimes used by economists in a more colloquial fashion to refer to these sorts of situations. The word \"corner\" refers to the fact that if one graphs the maximization problem, the optimal point will occur at the \"corner\" created by the budget constraint and one axis.\n\nA corner solution is an instance where the \"best\" solution (i.e. maximizing profit, or utility, or whatever value is sought) is achieved based not on the market-efficient maximization of related quantities, but rather based on brute-force boundary conditions. Such a solution lacks mathematical elegance, and most examples are characterized by externally forced conditions (such as \"variables \"x\" and \"y\" cannot be negative\") that put the actual local extrema outside the permitted values.\n\nThe more usual solution will lie in the non-zero interior at the point of tangency between the objective function and the constraint. For example, in consumer theory the objective function is the indifference-curve map (the utility function) of the consumer. The budget line is the constraint. In the usual case, constrained utility is maximized on the budget constraint with strictly positive quantities consumed of both goods. For a corner solution, however, utility is maximized at a point on one axis where the budget constraint intersects the highest attainable indifference curve at zero consumption for one good with all income used for the other good. Furthermore, a range of lower prices for the good with initial zero consumption may leave quantity demanded unchanged at zero, rather than increasing it as in the more usual case.\n\nAnother technical way to state it is that a corner solution is a solution to a minimization or maximization problem where the non-corner solution is infeasible, that is, not in the domain. Instead, the solution is a corner solution on an axis where either \"x\" or \"y\" is equal to zero. For instance, from the example above in economics, if the maximal utility of two goods is achieved when the quantity of goods \"x\" and \"y\" are (−2, 5), and the utility is subject to the constraint \"x\" and \"y\" are greater than or equal to 0 (one cannot consume a negative quantity of goods) as is usually the case, then the actual solution to the problem would be a corner solution where \"x\" = 0.\n\n"}
{"id": "577730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=577730", "title": "Defence Evaluation and Research Agency", "text": "Defence Evaluation and Research Agency\n\nThe Defence Evaluation and Research Agency (normally known as DERA) was a part of the UK Ministry of Defence (MoD) between 1995 and 2 July 2001. At the time it was the United Kingdom's largest science and technology organisation. \n\nDERA was formed in April 1995 as an amalgamation of the following organisations: \n\nThe chief executive throughout DERA's existence was John Chisholm. DERA's staffing level was around 9000 scientists, technologists and support staff.\n\nDERA was split into two organisations, based on short-lived transition bodies known as PDERA (\"privatised\" DERA) - becoming a commercial firm, QinetiQ - and \"RDERA\" ( \"retained\" in Government DERA) - becoming the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory (Dstl).\n\nAt the split, QinetiQ was formed from the majority (about 3/4 of the staff and most of the facilities) of DERA, with Dstl assuming responsibility for those aspects which were best done in government. A few examples of the work undertaken by Dstl include nuclear, chemical, and biological research. In the time since the split both organisations have undergone significant change programmes. QinetiQ has increased its focus on overseas research with a number of US and other foreign acquisitions, whereas Dstl has a major rationalisation programme.\n\n"}
{"id": "1388242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1388242", "title": "Dharma transmission", "text": "Dharma transmission\n\nIn Zen-Buddhism, Dharma transmission is a custom in which a person is established as a \"successor in an unbroken lineage of teachers and disciples, a spiritual 'bloodline' (\"kechimyaku\") theoretically traced back to the Buddha himself.\" The dharma lineage reflects the importance of family-structures in ancient China, and forms a symbolic and ritual recreation of this system for the monastical \"family\".\n\nIn Rinzai-Zen, \"inka shōmei\" is ideally \"the formal recognition of Zen's deepest realisation\", but practically it is being used for the transmission of the \"true lineage\" of the masters (\"shike\") of the training halls. There are only about fifty to eighty of such \"inka shōmei\"-bearers in Japan.\n\nIn Sōtō-Zen, dharma transmission (shiho) provides access to only a relatively low grade. It is listed as a requirement for the very lowest ecclesiastical status, that of an instructor third class (\"santō kyōshi\") further training is required to become an oshō.\n\nThe notion and practice of Dharma Transmission developed early in the history of Chán, as a means to gain credibility and to foster institutional ties among the members of the Chán-community. Charts of dharma-lineages were developed, which represented the continuity of the Buddhist dharma. Originally these lineages only included the Chinese Patriarchs, but they were later extended to twenty-eight Indian Patriarchs and seven Buddhas.\n\nThe Chán-tradition developed from the established tradition of \"Canonical Buddhism\", which \"remained normative for all later Chinese Buddhism\". It was established by the end of the sixth century, as a result of the Chinese developing understanding of Buddhism in the previous centuries.\n\nOne of the inventions of this Canonical Buddhism were transmission lists, a literary device to establish a lineage. Both T'ien Tai and Chán took over this literary device, to lend authority to those developing traditions, and guarantee its authenticity:\nThe concept of dharma transmission took shape during the Tang period, when establishing the right teachings became important, to safeguard the authority of specific schools. The emerging Zen-tradition developed the \"Transmission of the Lamp\"-genre, in which lineages from Shakyamuni Buddha up to their own times were described.\n\nAnother literary device for establishing those traditions was given by the \"Kao-seng-chuan\" (Biographies of Eminent Monks), compiled around 530. The Chán-tradition developed its own corpus in this genre, with works such as \"Anthology of the Patriarchal Hall\" (952) and the \"Jingde Records of the Transmission of the Lamp\" (published 1004). McRae considers Dumoulin's \"A History of Zen\" to be a modern example of this genre, disguised as scientific history.\n\nThe Chán-lineages picture the Indian monk Bodhidharma as the patriarch who brought Chán to China. Only scarce historical information is available about him, but his hagiography developed when the Chan tradition grew stronger and gained prominence in the early 8th century.\n\nBy this time a lineage of the six ancestral founders of Chán in China was developed. In the late 8th century, under the influence of Huineng's student Shenhui, the traditional form of this lineage had been established:\n\nAccording to tradition, the sixth and last ancestral founder, Huineng (惠能; 638–713), was one of the giants of Chán history, and all surviving schools regard him as their ancestor. The dramatic story of Huineng's life tells that there was a controversy over his claim to the title of patriarch. After being chosen by Hongren, the fifth ancestral founder, Huineng had to flee by night to Nanhua Temple in the south to avoid the wrath of Hongren's jealous senior disciples.\n\nModern scholarship, however, has questioned this narrative. Historic research reveals that this story was created around the middle of the 8th century, beginning in 731 by Shenhui, a successor to Huineng, to win influence at the Imperial Court. He claimed Huineng to be the successor of Hongren's, instead of the then publicly recognized successor Shenxiu. In 745 Shen-hui was invited to take up residence in the Ho-tse temple in Lo-yang. In 753 he fell out of grace, and had to leave the capital to go into exile. The most prominent of the successors of his lineage was Guifeng Zongmi According to Tsung-mi, Shen-hui's approach was officially sanctioned in 796, when \"an imperial commission determined that the Southern line of Ch'an represented the orthodox transmission and established Shen-hui as the seventh patriarch, placing an inscription to that effect in the shen-lung temple\".\n\nDoctrinally the Southern School is associated with the teaching that enlightenment is sudden, while the Northern School is associated with the teaching that enlightenment is gradual. This was a polemical exaggeration, since both schools were derived from the same tradition, and the so-called Southern School incorporated many teachings of the more influential Northern School. Eventually both schools died out, but the influence of Shenhui was so immense that all later Chan schools traced their origin to Huineng, and \"sudden enlightenment\" became a standard doctrine of Chan.\n\nIn later writings this lineage was extended to include twenty-eight Indian patriarchs. In the \"Song of Enlightenment\" (證道歌 \"Zhèngdào gē\") of Yongjia Xuanjue (永嘉玄覺, 665–713), one of the chief disciples of Huìnéng, it is written that Bodhidharma was the 28th patriarch in a line of descent from Mahākāśyapa, a disciple of Śākyamuni Buddha, and the first patriarch of Chán Buddhism. \n\nKeizan's \"Transmission of the Light\" gives twenty-eight patriarchs up to and including Bodhidharma in this transmission:\n\nAccording to the traditional Chán accounts, the first Dharma transmission occurred as described in the Flower Sermon. The Buddha held up a golden lotus flower before an assembly of \"gods and men\". None who were in attendance showed any sign of understanding except his disciple Mahākāśyapa, who offered only a smile. The Buddha then said, \nThough dharma transmission implies the acknowledgement of insight into the teachings of Buddhism as understood by the Zen tradition, especially seeing into one's true nature, dharma transmission is also a means to establish a person into the Zen tradition:\nThe dharma lineage reflects the importance of family-structures in ancient China, and forms a symbolic and ritual recreation of this system for the monastical \"family\".\n\nAccording to Borup the emphasis on 'mind to mind transmission' is a form of esoteric transmission, in which \"the tradition and the enlightened mind is transmitted face to face\". Metaphorically this can be described as the transmission of a flame from one candle to another candle, or the transmission from one vein to another. In exoteric transmission the requirement is \"direct access to the teaching through a personal discovery of one's self. This type of transmission and identification is symbolized by the discovery of a shining lantern, or a mirror.\"\n\nThis polarity is recognizable in the emphasis that the Zen-tradition puts on maintaining the correct Dharma transmission, while simultaneously stressing seeing into one's nature:\nNevertheless, while the Zen tradition has always stressed the importance of formal Dharma transmission, there are well known examples of Mushi dokugo, such as Nōnin, Jinul and Suzuki Shōsan who attained awakening on their own, though all of them were familiair with the Zen-teachings.\n\nAccording to Bodiford, \"Zen is the predominant form of Buddhism because of dharma transmission\":\nBodiford distinguishes seven dimensions which are discernible in both family relationships and in dharma lineages:\n\nThe family-model is easier recognized when East Asian languages are being used, because the same terminology is used to describe both earthly and spiritual family relations.\n\nDharma transmission is both concrete and abstract:\nThis feature gives dharma transmission a great flexibility:\nWithin the various Zen traditions dharma transmission got various meanings. A difference is made in most schools between \nTraditional Chinese Chán still exists in China, Taiwan and Hong Kong, though it is less known in the west than Japanese Zen.\n\nIn the Chinese Buddhist tradition, there are 3 systems of transmission:\n\nIt is customary to refer to one's own tonsure Master as \"Gracious Master\", precept Master as \"Root Master\" and Dharma transmission Master as \"Venerable Master\". In Chinese Buddhism, these 3 systems are separate and are not performed by the same Masters. Moreover, due to the strong emphasis on the Dharma, when a person receives the Dharma transmission, he/she is recognized as that Ch'an Master's Dharma son/daughter. Of course lay Buddhists may also receive this Dharma transmission, but there are very few incidences. Most of the monk/nun who received the transmission has already been tonsured and ordained by other Masters.\n\nAll Rinzai lineages pass through Hakuin Ekaku, the 18th century revivalist, who considered himself to be an heir of Shoju Rojin (Shoju Ronin, Dokyu Etan, 1642–1721), though Hakuin never received formal dharma transmission from Shoju Rojin, nor from any other teacher. When he was installed as head priest of Shōin-ji in 1718, he had the title of \"Dai-ichiza\", \"First Monk\":\nAll contemporary Rinzai-lineages stem from Inzan Ien (1751–1814) and Takuju Kosen (1760–1833), both students of Gasan Jito (1727–1797). Gasan is considered to be a dharma heir of Hakuin, though \"he did not belong to the close circle of disciples and was probably not even one of Hakuin's dharma heirs\".\n\nThrough Hakuin, all contemporary Japanese Rinzai-lineages are part of the Ōtōkan lineage, brought to Japan in 1267 by Nanpo Jomyo, who received dharma transmission in China in 1265.\n\nIn the Rinzai school, a difference is made between acknowledgement of insight and succession in the organisation:\nAccording to Mohr, \nThe most common form of transmission in Rinzai Zen is the acknowledgement that one has stayed in the monastery for a certain amount of time, and may later become a temple priest.\n\nAfter finishing the koan-study, further practice is necessary:\nThe common transmission does not include \"inka shōmei\". Ideally \"inka shōmei\" is \"the formal recognition of Zen's deepest realisation\", but practically it is being used for the transmission of the \"true lineage\" of the masters (\"shike\") of the training halls. Training halls are temples which are authorised for further training after being qualified as a temple priest.\n\nThere are only about fifty to eighty of such \"inka shōmei\"-bearers in Japan:\nAccording to roshi Sokun Tsushimoto, the title of \"roshi\" is equivalent to \"Zen master\" and \"shike\":\nA qualified Zen master bestows inka only upon \"those select few\" who have successfully completed the entire Rinzai koan curriculum, and \"are eligible to serve as \"sōdō\" roshi, that is, master of a training hall, in distinction from a common temple:\nAccording to roshi Sokun Tsushimoto,\nThe right-hand portion of the seal was given to an individual who would then work by authority of the emperor, while the emperor himself would retain the left-hand portion. In ancient times inka usually came in the form of an actual document, but this practice is no longer commonplace.\n\nIn Sōtō, dharma transmission is the acknowledgement of the ties between teacher and student. It has been subject to changes over the history of the Sōtō-school.\n\nThough Dōgen emphasized the importance of the purity of the teachings, and highly valued lineage and dharma transmission, the Sōtō-school has its origins in various lineages and dharma transmissions. Dogen received dharma transmission from his Chinese teacher Rujing, with whom he studied two years, but in medieval Sōtō he was also considered to be a dharma heir of Myōzen, a Rinzai-teacher, with whom he studied eight years. And Tettsū Gikai, the dharma-grandson of Dogen, was also lineage-holder of Nōnin, the founder of the Dharuma-shu, also a Rinzai-school. Gikai passed this linegae over to Keizan, who thereby was also lineage-holder in at least two lineages.\n\nTo make the history of Sōtō even more complicated, the Caodong-lineage that Dogen inherited through Rujing was passed on previously from the Caodong-master Dayang Jingxuan to Touzi Yiqing via the Rinzai-master Fushan Fayuan. Fushan Fayuan had once studied under Dayang Jingxuan. When Jingxuan died Fayuan had received Jingxuan's \"portrait, robe, and a verse that expressed his teaching\", promising \"to pass them on to a suitable successor\". Fayuan chose his student Touzi Yiqing to inherit this lineage, a fact that was acknowledged in Keizan's Denkoroku, but \"[i]n the standard versions of Dogen's writings, however, all direct references to Yiqing's indirect succession have been eliminated\".\n\nManzan Dokahu (1636–1714), a Sōtō reformer,\nAccording to Manzan, even an unenlightened student could receive dharma transmission:\nIn Sōtō-zen, since Manzan Dokahu, two criteria are applied for dharma transmission:\n\nIn contrast to the status that dharma transmission has begotten in the west, in Sōtō it has a relatively low status:\nTo supervise the training of monks, further qualifications are necessary:\nThe duties which come with this full qualification were not always appreciated. In the medieval organisation of the Sōtō-shu, when rotation of abbotship was the norm. Dharma transmission at a branch temple obliged one to serve at least one term as abbot at the main temple. Abbotship gave severe duties, and financial burdens, for which reason many tried to avoid the responsibility of abbotship:\nThe Sōtō-shu also confers inka shōmyō (or \"inshō\") \"[granting] the seal of approval to a realization of enlightenment\", upon students. This is an \nDharma transmission is part of the maintenance of the Sōtō-institutions. Authority and temple-property are handed down, often from father to son. It is not a guarantee for spiritual attainment:\n[Please note that this section provides only one reference from a single individual. Help Wikipedia by including more sources.]\n\nDharma transmission is also called \"shiho\". In the Sōtō school a student receives Dharma transmission during a \"denbō\" ceremony, which is the last ceremony of their shiho ceremony: \nShiho is...\nShiho is done \"one-to-one in the abbot's quarters (hojo)\". Three handwritten documents certify the dharma transmission;\nThe procedure has to take place only once in one's life, and binds the student to the teacher forever:\nIf a students does not have the feeling he wants to be tied to this teacher for the rest of his life, he may refuse to take dharma transmission from this particular teacher. Since the time of Manzan Dokahu (1636–1714), multiple dharma transmissions are impossible in Sōtō Zen.\n\nAccording to Muho Noelke, dharma transmission marks the beginning of the real learning:\nAfter Dharma transmission one has become a member of the \"blood line\" of Zen, but is not yet qualified as an Oshō. After the ten-e and zuise ceremonies, one is qualified as an oshō. There-after one has to practice for some time, at least six months, in an \"sôdô-ango\", an officially recognized Sōtō-shu training centre.\n\nAfter that one can start to work in a temple. The newly acquired status is confirmed in the \"kyoshi-honin\" ceremony. There-after follows the first practice-period in one's own temple, with the aid of a \"susho\" (head monk). This is followed by the \"Jushoku-himei\" ceremony, which confirms one's status as \"dai-oshō\".\n\nThe Sanbo Kyodan mixes Sōtō and Rinzai-elements. Students in this school follow the Harada-Yasutani koan curriculum, in which great emphasis is placed on kensho, the initial insight into one's true nature. Having attained kensho is publicly acknowledged in a \"jahai\"-ceremony. After working through the Harada-Yasutani koan curriculum, which may take as short as five years, the student receives a calligraphy testifying that het or she \"has finished the great matter\". This is publicly acknowledged in the \"hasansai\"-ceremony, giving the status of \"hasan\".\n\nThe Sanbo Kyodan has two levels of teaching authority, namely \"junshike\" (\"associate zen master\"), and \"shōshike\" (\"authentic zen master\"). Junshikes can give dokusan, authorize kensho, and supervise part of the koan-study. Shoshikes can supervise the advanced koan-study, and perform religious ceremonies, such as the precept-ceremony and wedding ceremonies.\n\nThe process toward gaining these titles has seen some variations within the Sanbo Kyodan. \"Hasansai\" may be preparatory to the \"junshike\"-title, but may also be the promotion to this title. And promotion to \"shoshike\" may be preparatory to dharma transmission, but may also be equivalent to it.\n\nIn dharma transmission, the student receives the \"sanmotsu\", akin to the Sōtō shiho ceremony. This is coupled with the Rinzai notion on \"inka\". In Rinzai, only students who have completed the complete Rinzai koan curriculum and \"are eligible to serve as \"sōdō\" roshi, that is, master of a training hall, in distinction from a common temple, receive inka. In the Sanbo Kyodan, \"inka\" is derived from Harada's Rinzai master Dokutan Sōsan.\n\nIn the White Plum Asanga, Dharma transmission comes first, and qualifies one as a sensei. This may be followed by inka, the final acknowledgemment:\nIn Korean Soen, Inka (In'ga) typically refers to the private acknowledgement of dharma transmission from a teacher to their student. \"Transmission\" is used to refer to the public ceremonial version of the same acknowledgement.\n\nBoth are considered equal in authority and \"realization\". A monk with either In'ga or the public \"transmission\" is qualified to hold the post of Soen Sa, or \"Zen Master\" for a temple, and give transmission to their own students (either, In'ga or public \"transmission\"). The majority of Zen Masters in Korea have only received, and only give In'ga, with the formal transmission ceremony being far more rare.\n\nIn the Western Kwan Um School of Zen created by the Korean Zen Master Seung Sahn, \"Inka\" is granted to an individual who has completed their koan training and is granted the title Ji Do Poep Sa Nim. Dharma transmission in the Kwan Um School of Zen comes after inka, denoting the individual is now a Soen Sa Nim. Seung Sahn himself is quoted saying in reference to the administration of his Western organization, \nThich Nhat Hanh has created a ritual known as \"Lamp Transmission\", making a teacher a Dharmacharya—an individual with \"limited teaching authority.\" According to author James Ishmael Ford, \nIn the western understanding, dharma transmission stands solely for recognition of authentic insight, whereas in the Japanese monastery system dharma transmission is a formal notification that someone is fully qualified to take a leading role in this system. In the USA and Europe dharma transmission is linked to the unofficial title roshi, older teacher. In the Western understanding roshis are \"part of a tradition that imputes to them quasi-divine qualities\", someone who \"is defined by simplicity, innocence, and lack of self-interest or desire\". Nevertheless, the authorisation of teachers through dharma transmission does not mean that teachers are infallible, as is clear from the repeated appearance of scandals:\nAccording to Lachs, those scandals have also been possible because of the status given to roshis by dharma transmission, and \"a desire for the master’s aura, recognition, and approval\":\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1648512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1648512", "title": "Downcycling", "text": "Downcycling\n\nDowncycling, or cascading, is the recycling of waste where the recycled material is of lower quality and functionality than the original material. Often, this is due the accumulation of tramp elements in secondary metals, which may exclude the latter from high-quality applications. For example, steel scrap from end-of-life vehicles is often contaminated with copper from wires and tin from coating. This contaminated scrap yields a secondary steel that does not meet the specifications for automotive steel and therefore, it is mostly applied in the construction sector.\n\nDowncycling can help to keep materials in use, reduce consumption of raw materials, and avoid the energy usage, greenhouse gas emissions, air pollution, and water pollution of primary production and resource extraction. \nThe term \"downcycling\" was first used by Reiner Pilz in an interview by Thornton Kay in SalvoNEWS in 1994. We talked about the impending EU Demolition Waste Streams directive. \"Recycling, he said, \"I call it downcycling. They smash bricks, they smash everything. What we need is upcycling where old products are given more value not less.\" He despairs of the German situation and recalls the supply of a large quantity of reclaimed woodblock from an English supplier for a contract in Nuremberg while just down the road a load of similar blocks was scrapped. It was a pinky looking aggregate with pieces of handmade brick, old tiles and discernible parts of useful old items mixed with crushed concrete. Is this the future for Europe?\nThe term \"downcycling\" was also used by William McDonough and Michael Braungart in their 2002 book \"\".\n\nDowncycling is related to but different from 'open-loop recycling'. While downcycling implies quality loss the term open-loop recycling denotes a situation where the secondary material is used in a different product system than the original material; it thus comprises both upcycling and downcycling. A detailed discussion on the relation between downcycling, open loop recycling and their environmental impact is provided by Geyer et al. (2015). They write that \"Poor product design and EOL management can lead to recycled materials of poor quality, which, in turn, limits the applications these materials can be used in.\" They also argue that \"closed-loop recycling neither intrinsically displaces more primary material owing to multiple loops (quantity argument) nor per se generates higher environmental benefits on a unit basis (quality argument).\" The reason for their argument lies in the necessity to include the product system of the target application, in which the recycled material is used or not, into the assessment of overall primary material demand and environmental impact.\n\n"}
{"id": "19610404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19610404", "title": "Enchanted loom", "text": "Enchanted loom\n\nThe enchanted loom is a famous metaphor for the human brain invented by the pioneering neuroscientist Charles S. Sherrington in a passage from his 1942 book \"Man on his nature\", in which he poetically describes his conception of what happens in the cerebral cortex during arousal from sleep:\n\nThe \"loom\" he refers to was undoubtedly meant to be a Jacquard loom, used for weaving fabric into complex patterns. The Jacquard loom, invented in 1801, was the most complex mechanical device of the early 19th century. It was controlled by a punch card system that was a forerunner of the system used in computers until the 1970s. With as many as thousands of independently movable shuttles, a Jacquard loom in operation must have appeared very impressive. If Sherrington had written a decade later, however, he might perhaps have chosen the flashing lights on the front panel of a computer as his metaphor instead.\n\nAccording to the neuroscience historian Stanley Finger, Sherrington probably borrowed the loom metaphor from an earlier writer, the psychologist Fredric Myers, who asked his readers to \"picture the human brain as a vast manufactory, in which thousands of looms, of complex and differing patterns, are habitually at work\". Perhaps in part because of its slightly cryptic nature, the \"enchanted loom\" has been an attractive metaphor for many writers about the brain, and has supplied the title for several books, including the following:\n"}
{"id": "752991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=752991", "title": "Entity–relationship model", "text": "Entity–relationship model\n\nAn entity–relationship model (ER model for short) describes interrelated things of interest in a specific domain of knowledge. A basic ER model is composed of entity types (which classify the things of interest) and specifies relationships that can exist between instances of those entity types.\n\nIn software engineering, an ER model is commonly formed to represent things that a business needs to remember in order to perform business processes. Consequently, the ER model becomes an abstract data model, that defines a data or information structure which can be implemented in a database, typically a relational database.\n\nEntity–relationship modeling was developed for database design by Peter Chen and published in a 1976 paper. However, variants of the idea existed previously. Some ER models show super and subtype entities connected by generalization-specialization relationships, and an ER model can be used also in the specification of domain-specific ontologies.\n\nAn entity–relationship model is usually the result of systematic analysis to define and describe what is important to processes in an area of a business. It does not define the business processes; it only presents a business data schema in graphical form. It is usually drawn in a graphical form as boxes (\"entities\") that are connected by lines (\"relationships\") which express the associations and dependencies between entities. An ER model can also be expressed in a verbal form, for example: \"one building may be divided into zero or more apartments, but one apartment can only be located in one building.\"\n\nEntities may be characterized not only by relationships, but also by additional properties (\"attributes\"), which include identifiers called \"primary keys\". Diagrams created to represent attributes as well as entities and relationships may be called entity-attribute-relationship diagrams, rather than entity–relationship models. \n\nAn ER model is typically implemented as a database. In a simple relational database implementation, each row of a table represents one instance of an entity type, and each field in a table represents an attribute type. In a relational database a relationship between entities is implemented by storing the primary key of one entity as a pointer or \"foreign key\" in the table of another entity\n\nThere is a tradition for ER/data models to be built at two or three levels of abstraction. Note that the conceptual-logical-physical hierarchy below is used in other kinds of specification, and is different from the three schema approach to software engineering.\n\nThe first stage of information system design uses these models during the requirements analysis to describe information needs or the type of information that is to be stored in a database. The data modeling technique can be used to describe any ontology (i.e. an overview and classifications of used terms and their relationships) for a certain area of interest. In the case of the design of an information system that is based on a database, the conceptual data model is, at a later stage (usually called logical design), mapped to a logical data model, such as the relational model; this in turn is mapped to a physical model during physical design. Note that sometimes, both of these phases are referred to as \"physical design.\"\n\nAn entity may be defined as a thing capable of an independent existence that can be uniquely identified. An entity is an abstraction from the complexities of a domain. When we speak of an entity, we normally speak of some aspect of the real world that can be distinguished from other aspects of the real world.\n\nAn entity is a thing that exists either physically or logically. An entity may be a physical object such as a house or a car (they exist physically), an event such as a house sale or a car service, or a concept such as a customer transaction or order (they exist logically—as a concept). Although the term entity is the one most commonly used, following Chen we should really distinguish between an entity and an entity-type. An entity-type is a category. An entity, strictly speaking, is an instance of a given entity-type. There are usually many instances of an entity-type. Because the term entity-type is somewhat cumbersome, most people tend to use the term entity as a synonym for this term\n\nEntities can be thought of as nouns. Examples: a computer, an employee, a song, a mathematical theorem, etc.\n\nA relationship captures how entities are related to one another. Relationships can be thought of as verbs, linking two or more nouns. Examples: an \"owns\" relationship between a company and a computer, a \"supervises\" relationship between an employee and a department, a \"performs\" relationship between an artist and a song, a \"proves\" relationship between a mathematician and a conjecture, etc.\n\nThe model's linguistic aspect described above is utilized in the declarative database query language ERROL, which mimics natural language constructs. ERROL's semantics and implementation are based on reshaped relational algebra (RRA), a relational algebra that is adapted to the entity–relationship model and captures its linguistic aspect.\n\nEntities and relationships can both have attributes. Examples: an \"employee\" entity might have a \"Social Security Number\" (SSN) attribute, while a \"proved\" relationship may have a \"date\" attribute.\n\nEvery entity (unless it is a weak entity) must have a minimal set of uniquely identifying attributes, which is called the entity's primary key.\n\nEntity–relationship diagrams don't show single entities or single instances of relations. Rather, they show entity sets (all entities of the same entity type) and relationship sets (all relationships of the same relationship type). Examples: a particular \"song\" is an entity; the collection of all songs in a database is an entity set; the \"eaten\" relationship between a child and her lunch is a single relationship; the set of all such child-lunch relationships in a database is a relationship set.\nIn other words, a relationship set corresponds to a relation in mathematics, while a relationship corresponds to a member of the relation.\n\nCertain cardinality constraints on relationship sets may be indicated as well.\n\nChen proposed the following \"rules of thumb\" for mapping natural language descriptions into ER diagrams: \"English, Chinese and ER diagrams\" by Peter Chen.\n\nPhysical view show how data is actually stored.\n\nIn Chen's original paper he gives an example of a relationship and its roles. He describes a relationship \"marriage\" and its two roles \"husband\" and \"wife\".\n\nA person plays the role of husband in a marriage (relationship) and another person plays the role of wife in the (same) marriage. These words are nouns. That is no surprise; naming things requires a noun.\n\nChen's terminology has also been applied to earlier ideas. The lines, arrows and crow's-feet of some diagrams owes more to the earlier Bachman diagrams than to Chen's relationship diagrams.\n\nAnother common extension to Chen's model is to \"name\" relationships and roles as verbs or phrases.\n\nIt has also become prevalent to name roles with phrases such as \"is the owner of\" and \"is owned by\". Correct nouns in this case are \"owner\" and \"possession\". Thus \"person plays the role of owner\" and \"car plays the role of possession\" rather than \"person plays the role of\", \"is the owner of\", etc.\n\nThe use of nouns has direct benefit when generating physical implementations from semantic models. When a \"person\" has two relationships with \"car\" then it is possible to generate names such as \"owner_person\" and \"driver_person\", which are immediately meaningful.\n\nModifications to the original specification can be beneficial. Chen described look-across cardinalities. As an aside, the Barker–Ellis notation, used in Oracle Designer, uses same-side for minimum cardinality (analogous to optionality) and role, but look-across for maximum cardinality (the crows foot).\n\nIn Merise, Elmasri & Navathe and others there is a preference for same-side for roles and both minimum and maximum cardinalities. Recent researchers (Feinerer, Dullea et al.) have shown that this is more coherent when applied to n-ary relationships of order greater than 2.\n\nIn Dullea et al. one reads \"A 'look across' notation such as used in the UML does not effectively represent the semantics of participation constraints imposed on relationships where the degree is higher than binary.\"\n\nIn Feinerer it says \"Problems arise if we operate under the look-across semantics as used for UML associations. Hartmann investigates this situation and shows how and why different transformations fail.\" \"(Although the \"reduction\" mentioned is spurious as the two diagrams 3.4 and 3.5 are in fact the same)\" and also \"As we will see on the next few pages, the look-across interpretation introduces several difficulties that prevent the extension of simple mechanisms from binary to n-ary associations.\"\n\nAttributes are drawn as ovals and are connected with a line to exactly one entity or relationship set.\n\nCardinality constraints are expressed as follows:\n\nAttributes are often omitted as they can clutter up a diagram; other diagram techniques often list entity attributes within the rectangles drawn for entity sets.\n\nRelated diagramming convention techniques:\n\nCrow's foot notation, the beginning of which dates back to an article by Gordon Everest (1976), is used in Barker's notation, Structured Systems Analysis and Design Method (SSADM) and information technology engineering. Crow's foot diagrams represent entities as boxes, and relationships as lines between the boxes. Different shapes at the ends of these lines represent the relative cardinality of the relationship.\n\nCrow's foot notation was used in the consultancy practice CACI. Many of the consultants at CACI (including Richard Barker) subsequently moved to Oracle UK, where they developed the early versions of Oracle's CASE tools, introducing the notation to a wider audience.\n\nWith this notation, relationships cannot have attributes. Where necessary, relationships are promoted to entities in their own right: for example, if it is necessary to capture where and when an artist performed a song, a new entity \"performance\" is introduced (with attributes reflecting the time and place), and the relationship of an artist to a song becomes an indirect relationship via the performance (artist-performs-performance, performance-features-song). \nIn using a modeled database, users can encounter two well known issues where the returned results mean something other than the results assumed by the query author.\n\nThe first is the 'fan trap'. It occurs with a (master) table that links to multiple tables in a one-to-many relationship. The issue derives its name from the way the model looks when it's drawn in an entity–relationship diagram: the linked tables 'fan out' from the master table. This type of model looks similar to a star schema, a type of model used in data warehouses. When trying to calculate sums over aggregates using standard SQL over the master table, unexpected (and incorrect) results. The solution is to either adjust the model or the SQL. This issue occurs mostly in databases for decision support systems, and software that queries such systems sometimes includes specific methods for handling this issue.\n\nThe second issue is a 'chasm trap'. A chasm trap occurs when a model suggests the existence of a relationship between entity types, but the pathway does not exist between certain entity occurrences. For example, a Building has one-or-more Rooms, that hold zero-or-more Computers. One would expect to be able to query the model to see all the Computers in the Building. However, Computers not currently assigned to a Room (because they are under repair or somewhere else) are not shown on the list. Another relation between Building and Computers is needed to capture all the computers in the building. This last modelling issue is the result of a failure to capture all the relationships that exist in the real world in the model. See Entity-Relationship Modelling 2 for details.\n\nA semantic model is a model of concepts, it is sometimes called a \"platform independent model\". It is an intensional model. At the latest since Carnap, it is well known that: \n\nAn extensional model is one that maps to the elements of a particular methodology or technology, and is thus a \"platform specific model\". The UML specification explicitly states that associations in class models are extensional and this is in fact self-evident by considering the extensive array of additional \"adornments\" provided by the specification over and above those provided by any of the prior candidate \"semantic modelling languages\".\"UML as a Data Modeling Notation, Part 2\"\n\nPeter Chen, the father of ER modeling said in his seminal paper:\n\nIn his original 1976 article Chen explicitly contrasts entity–relationship diagrams with record modelling techniques:\n\nSeveral other authors also support Chen's program:\n\nChen is in accord with philosophic and theoretical traditions from the time of the Ancient Greek philosophers: Socrates, Plato and Aristotle (428 BC) through to modern epistemology, semiotics and logic of Peirce, Frege and Russell.\n\nPlato himself associates knowledge with the apprehension of unchanging Forms (The forms, according to Socrates, are roughly speaking archetypes or abstract representations of the many types of things, and properties) and their relationships to one another.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4818642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4818642", "title": "Feeling rules", "text": "Feeling rules\n\nFeeling rules are socially shared norms that influence how people want to try to feel emotions in given social relations. This concept was introduced by sociologist Arlie Russell Hochschild in 1979. Hochschild's 1983 book, \"The Managed Heart: Commercialization of Human Feeling,\" discusses feeling rules in greater depth, especially in the occupational worlds of flight attendants and bill collectors. Hochschild draws on the work of sociologist Erving Goffman as well as labor scholar Harry Braverman to discuss the dramaturgical demands and emotional labor entailed by jobs in the service sector, in which workers must \"perform\" certain roles that entail abiding by certain feeling rules (e.g. \"friendly and dependable\"). She notes that women are more likely to have such jobs than men, and that analysis of feeling rules may therefore be especially relevant to understanding the gendered dimensions of labor. This work foreshadows themes from her later analyses of women's work, both paid and unpaid, e.g. in \"The Commercialization of Intimate Life\" (2003).\n\nThis work is part of the broader sociology of emotions, which notes that socialization plays an important role in how people experience, interpret, and express emotions, including the situations that evoke a range of feelings. All human beings learn certain feeling rules, but these feeling rules may differ widely depending on the society in which one grows up and one's social position and social identity, including gender and ethnic identity and socio-economic status. Feeling rules are flexible and the ways in which they impinge on one's experience in different settings influences one's personality, both in specific contexts (e.g. at work, home, school, or in different social groups) and over time.\n\nRace not only plays an important role in the way that employees act with each other, but also how employees act toward customers based on what race they are associated with. People expect others to behave in a certain manner due to what race they identify or associate with. Race influences and changes the way we see and view others.\n\nRoxana Harlow, a sociologist, conducted extensive research on black colleges and professors. Harlow's research showed that white college students viewed their professors as \"unintelligent\" and \"inferior\" simply because of the color of their skin and not the measurement of their knowledge. In a classroom setting, white students were shown to give black professors a hard time and question every statement that their professor made. Whereas, if they were in a classroom with a white professor that had made the same statement that a black professor had made previously, the white professor was not questioned and was viewed as knowledgeable. In spite of this baseless challenge to their authority, the black professor maintained their composure and adhered to the feeling rules demanded by the setting.\n\nIn a workplace, feeling rules are established and are expected to be followed, but there is a double standard on the feeling rules applied to the white workers versus black workers.\n\nDue to feeling rules, people of lower status or standing are expected to behave in an ashamed or emotional manner versus a cold or angry manner. By showing that they are ashamed of their current standing, the people of higher status are more likely to help them out and have pity on them versus those who do not show shame or pity for their current state. People respond better to seeing people on the streets asking for money or rambling through trash to find items. People of higher standings respond back by giving that individual of lower status clothes, food, and money. Our generosity is dependent on the manner of the poor individual. A poor individual who acted in an indifferent or prissy manner would not receive any response from the financially stable individual, not because his or her current situation had changed, in fact that person is still the poor individual you saw a few minutes ago, but in fact your demeanor had changed due to feeling rules.\n\nFeeling rules gives people the expectancy that individuals of lower status should act in a pitiful and ashamed manner just because of their standing. Feeling rules affect our status because it dictates how one should act just because of their economic/ financial standing.\n\nAn experiment was conducted to show how people would react if they saw an ad with a person who was angry about being poor and another person who was shameful about being in poverty. After viewing the ad, people were more willingly to give money to the person who ashamed about being poor versus the person who was angry about being poor. Since the individual who was angry about being in poverty broke the feeling rule of what is expected our people of lower class, little to none donations were received in their favor. People of lower status that displayed no sense of self-pity or dissatisfaction gave people of higher status a harder time to sympathize with them thus proving that expressing shame was more effective and when anger was expressed there was little to no help being provided.\n\nAround the world, males get paid more than females. Feeling rules require men and women to act a certain way, and in fear of breaking that norm, these rules stay in place. Women are associated with being sweet and innocent, whereas men are associated with being tough and strong. People are assigned jobs based on their gender. Since women are usually seen as beings that can control their anger, they are most likely enlisted in jobs that require them to use their looks or charms. Men, who are seen as tough, are usually in jobs that require them to use that toughness or anger in order to deliver some type of means.\n\nWomen in traditional and middle-class families rely on men to make or give them money. In response to the men providing, the women in a sense feel as if they have to repay the men back by hugging, kissing or celebrating the man. Since the women do not have the financial capability of repaying the man, the women use emotional means in order to thank or repay the man for what he has provided for them. If the man had provided the money for the woman and she in return did not act by hugging or kissing him, she would be seen an ungrateful because the feeling rules calls for her to feel joy or happiness for what the man has done for her.\n\nChildren learn their habits and emotional skills from their parents. Men are seen as beings that are not capable of controlling their feelings or emotions because they were not taught or required to as a child. Males obtain jobs such as bill collector, taxi driver, and construction worker because many of those jobs do not rely heavily on emotional labor. Hochschild showed that male flight attendants showed more power and tolerated less abuse from passengers than female flight attendants. Since people generally associate males with being tough and associate females with being sweet, feeling rules makes them feel appalled when a women behaves in a tough manner, but when a male behaves in the same way, it is seen as acceptable.\n\nA large portion of workers have jobs or careers that requires them to use their feelings, or \"emotional labor\" as Hochschild calls it, in the workplace. Their reactions and actions are based on the way they see how other people react or express their feelings. Companies and corporations see this and use it to exploit workers in order to maximize profits.\n\nHochschild gives a clear example on how companies maximize their profits through the use of feeling rules by viewing the job of a flight attendant. A flight attendant's job requires emotional labor. The flight attendance uplifts the customer through his or her demeanor and expression of feelings. A flight attendant who is constantly smiling or asking the customer how they are doing is more comforting to a customer versus if a flight attendant who rolls their eyes and rarely smiles. The feeling rules for a flight attendant calls for them to be happy, calm, and to suppress their negative feelings. Customers who see the way the flight attendant upholds themselves are more likely to come back if the experience was pleasant. Which is why many airlines like Delta, which was rated as one of the top airlines calls and requires these feeling rules at the workplace. In a way, this is beneficial to the companies and the customer because the customer is satisfied and keeps coming back, which makes the company more money. However, at the same time, it can be harmful to the flight attendant because they are not able to express their feelings, but rather suppress their feelings for the benefit of others.\n\n"}
{"id": "605103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=605103", "title": "Fidelity", "text": "Fidelity\n\nFidelity is the quality of faithfulness or loyalty. Its original meaning regarded duty in a broader sense than the related concept of \"fealty\". Both derive from the Latin word \"fidēlis\", meaning \"faithful or loyal\". In the City of London financial markets it has traditionally been used in the sense encompassed in the motto \"My word is my bond\".\n\nIn audio, \"fidelity\" denotes how accurately a copy reproduces its source. For example, a worn gramophone record will have a lower fidelity than one in good condition, and a recording made by a low budget record company in the early 20th century is likely to have significantly less audio fidelity than a good modern recording. In the 1950s, the terms \"high fidelity\" or \"hi-fi\" were popularized for equipment and recordings which exhibited more accurate sound reproduction. Similarly in electronics, fidelity refers to the correspondence of the output signal to the input signal, rather than sound quality, as in the popular internet connection technology \"Wi-Fi\".\n\nIn the fields of scientific modelling and simulation, fidelity refers to the degree to which a model or simulation reproduces the state and behaviour of a real world object, feature or condition. Fidelity is therefore a measure of the realism of a model or simulation. Simulation fidelity has also been described in the past as \"degree of similarity\". In quantum mechanics and optics, the fidelity of a field is calculated as an overlap integral of the field of interest with a reference or target field.\n\nIn the field of program evaluation, the term fidelity denotes how closely a set of procedures were implemented as they were supposed to have been. For example, it is difficult to draw conclusions from a study about formative assessment in school classrooms if the teachers are not able or willing to follow the procedures they received in training.\n"}
{"id": "3823623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3823623", "title": "Foot whipping", "text": "Foot whipping\n\nFoot whipping or bastinado is a method of corporal punishment which consists of hitting the soles of a person's bare feet. Unlike most types of flogging, this punishment was meant to be more painful than it was to cause actual injury to the victim. Blows were generally delivered with a light rod, knotted cord, or lash.\n\nThe receiving person is required to be barefoot. The uncovered soles of the feet need to be placed in an exposed position. The beating is typically performed with an object in the type of a cane or switch. The strokes are usually aimed at the arches of the feet and repeated a certain number of times.\n\nBastinado is also referred to as \"foot (bottom) caning\" or \"sole caning\", depending on the instrument in use. The particular Middle East method is called \"falaka\" or \"falanga\", derived from the Greek term \"phalanx\". The German term is \"Bastonade\", deriving from the Italian noun \"bastonata\" (\"stroke with the use of a stick\"). In former times it was also referred to as \"Sohlenstreich\" (corr. \"striking the soles\"). The Chinese term is \"da jiao xin\".\n\nThe first scripted documentation of bastinado in Europe dates back to the year 1537, in China to 960. References to bastinado have been hypothesised to be found in the Bible (Prov. 22:15; Lev. 19:20; Deut. 22:18), suggesting the practice since antiquity.\n\nThis subform of flagellation differentiates from most other forms by limiting the strokes to a very narrow section of the body. The beatings typically aim at the vaults of the feet where the soles are particularly pain sensitive, at this usually avoiding hitting the balls and heels directly but concentrating on the small area in between.\n\nAs the skin texture under the soles of the feet can naturally endure high levels of strain, injuries demanding medical attention, such as lacerations or bruises, are rarely inflicted if certain precautions are observed by the executant. The undersides of the feet have therefore become a common target for corporal punishment in many cultures while basically different methods exist.\n\nFoot whipping is typically carried out within prisons and similar institutions. Besides inflicting intense physical suffering it trades on the significance of bare feet as a dishonouring socio-cultural attribute. Therefore, it is regarded to be a particularly humiliating as well as degrading form of punishment.\n\nAs wearing shoes is an integral element of societal appearance since antiquity, the visual exposure of bare feet is a traditional and sometimes even ritualistic practice to display the subjection or submission of a person under a manifestation of superior power. At this was often used as a visual indicator of a subservient standing within a social structure and to display the imbalance in power. It was therefore routinely imposed as a visual identifier and obstacle on slaves and prisoners, often divested of rights and liberties in a similar manner. Exploiting its socio-cultural significance, people have been forced to go barefoot as a formal shame sanction and for public humiliation as well. Keeping prisoners barefoot is common practice in several countries of today.\n\nFoot whipping therefore poses a distinct threat and is often particularly dreaded by potential victims (usually prisoners). Exploiting the effects this penalty is typically used to maintain discipline and compliance in prisons.\n\nBastinado is commonly associated with Middle and Far Eastern nations, where it is occasionally executed in public, therefore covered by occasional reports and photographs. However it has been frequently practised within in the Western World as well, particularly in prisons, reformatories, boarding schools and similar institutions.\n\nIn Europe bastinado was a frequently encountered form of corporal punishment particularly in German areas, where it was mainly carried out to enforce discipline within penal and reformatory institutions, culminating during the Third Reich era. In several German and Austrian institutions it was still practised during the 1950s. Although bastinado was practiced in penal institutions of the Western world until the late 20th century, it was barely noticed as there is no reference to ever being adjudged on a high level. Instead it was carried out on a rather low level within the confines of the institutions, typically to punish inmates during incarceration. If not specifically authorized the practice was usually condoned, while happening unbeknown to the public. Also foot whipping hardly attracts public interest in general as it appears unspectacular and relatively inoffensive compared to other punishment methods. As it was not executed publicly in the western world, it came to be witnessed only by the individuals directly involved. At this former prisoners rarely communicate incidents as bastinado is widely perceived as a degrading punishment (see public humiliation), while former executants are usually obliged to confidentiality.\n\nBastinado is still used as prison punishment in several countries (see below). As it causes a high level of suffering for the victim and physical evidence remains largely undetectable after some time, it is frequently used for interrogation and torture.\n\nBastinado usually requires a certain amount of collaborative effort and an authoritarian presence on the executing party to be enforced. Therefore, it typically appears in settings where corporal punishment is officially approved to be exerted on predefined group of people. This can be situations of imprisonment and incarceration as well as slavery. This moderated subform of flagellation is characteristically prevalent where subjected individuals are forced to remain barefoot.\n\nFoot whipping was common practice as means of disciplinary punishment in different kinds of institutions throughout Central Europe until the 1950s, especially in German territories. <br>\nIn German prisons this method consistently served as the principal disciplinary punishment. Throughout the Nazi era it was frequently used in German penal institutions and labour camps.<br>It was also inflicted on the population in occupied territories, notably Denmark and Norway.\n\nDuring the era of slavery in Brazil and the American South it was often used whenever so-called \"clean beating\" instead of the prevalent more radical forms of flagellation was demanded. This was the case when a loss in market value through visible injuries especially on females was to be avoided. As many so-called \"slave-codes\" included a barefoot constraint, bastinado required minimal effort to be performed. As it was sufficiently effective but usually left no visible or relevant injuries, bastinado was often used as an alternative for female slaves with higher market value.\n\nBastinado is still practised in penal institutions of several countries around the world. In a 1967 survey 83% of the inmates in Greek prisons reported about frequent infliction of bastinado. It was also used against rioting students. In Spanish prisons 39% of the inmates reported about this kind of treatment. The French Sûreté reportedly used it to extract confessions. British occupants used it in Palestine, French occupants in Algeria. Within colonial India it was used to punish tax offenders. Within penal institutions in Europe bastinado was reportedly used in Germany, Austria, France, Spain, Greece, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria, Portugal, Macedonia, Lithuania, Georgia, Ukraine, Cyprus, Slovakia and Croatia. Other nations with documented use of bastinado are Syria, Israel, Turkey, Morocco, Iran, Egypt, Iraq, Libya, Lebanon, Tunisia, Yemen, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Brazil, Argentina, Nicaragua, Chile, South Africa, Venezuela, Rhodesia, Zimbabwe, Paraguay, Honduras, Bolivia, Ethiopia, Somalia, Kenya, Cameroon, Mauritius, Philippines, South Korea, Pakistan and Nepal.\n\n\n\n\nThe prisoner is barefooted and restrained in such manner, that the feet cannot be shifted out of position. The intention is to avert serious injuries of the forefoot by stray hitting, especially of the fracturable toes. The energy of the stroke impacts is typically meant to be absorbed by the muscular tissue inside the vaults of the feet.\n\nThe Middle Eastern \"falaka\" method entails tying up the person's feet into an elevated position while lying on the back, the beating is generally performed with a rigid wooden stick, a club or a truncheon. The term \"falaka\" describes the wooden plank used to tie up the ankles, however different items are used for this purpose. The essentially different German method, which was practiced until the end of the Third Reich era, consisted in strapping the barefoot prisoner prone onto a wooden bench or a plank. Hereby the feet were forced into a pointed posture (plantar flexion) with their bare undersides facing upward. For this purpose the upper body and both ankles were strapped onto the bench. The prisoner's hands were tied behind the back, usually using a cord or a leather strap. Hereby the person was rendered largely immobile and was especially not able to move the feet out of their forced position. The typically occurring contortions of the body during the execution were largely halted as well. This way the punishment could be inflicted with a certain degree of accuracy to not cause unwanted lesions or other severe injury. It was typically executed with a slightly flexible beating accessory such as a cane or a switch. More infrequently also short whips or leather straps were used. This form of punishment was mainly employed in women's penal institutions and labor camps where prisoners were often kept barefoot.\n\nThe middle eastern \"falaka\" is more inclined to cause serious injuries such as bone fractures and nerve damage than the German method, as the person undergoing falaka can move the body and feet to a certain degree. As a result, the strokes impact more or less randomly and injury-prone areas are frequently affected. As falaka is usually carried out with a rigid and often heavy stick, it accordingly causes blunt trauma leaving the person unable to walk and often impeded for life. For the German form, the prisoner was principally unable to move and the beatings were performed with lightweight objects that were relatively thin in diameter and usually slightly flexible. The physical aftereffects of the procedure remained mostly superficial and unwanted injuries were relatively rare. Therefore, the person usually remained capable of walking right after the punishment. Still, the German form of bastinado caused severe levels of pain and suffering for the receiving person.\n\nThe beatings usually aim at the tender longitudinal arch of the foot avoiding the bone structure of the ball and the heel. The vaults are particularly touch-sensitive and therefore susceptible to pain due to the tight clustering of nerve endings.\n\nWhen exerted with a thin and flexible object of lighter weight the corporal effects usually remain temporary. The numerous bones and tendons of the foot are sufficiently protected by muscular tissue so the impact is absorbed by the skin and muscular tissue. The skin under the soles of the human feet is of high elasticity and consistence similar to the palms of the hands. Lesions and hematoma therefore rarely occur while beating marks are mostly superficial. Depending on the characteristics of the beating device in use and the intensity of the beatings the emerging visible aftereffects remain ascertainable over a time frame of a few hours to several days. The receiving person usually remains able to walk without help right after the punishment.\n\nWhen the beating is executed with heavy sticks like clubs or truncheons according to the falaka method, bone fractures commonly occur as well as nerve damage and severe hematoma. The sustained injuries can take a long time to heal with even lasting or irreversible physical damage to the human musculoskeletal system.\n\nWhen thin and flexible instruments are used the immediate experience of pain is described as acutely stinging and searing. The instant sensations are disproportionally intense compared to the applied force and reflexively radiate through the body. The subsequent pain sensations of a succession of strokes are often described as throbbing, piercing or burning and gradually ease off within a few hours. A slightly stinging or nagging sensation often remains perceptible for a couple of days, especially while walking.\n\nAs the nerve endings under the soles of the feet do not adapt to recurring sensations or impacts, the pain reception does not alleviate through continuous beatings. On the contrary the perception of pain is further intensified over the course of additional impacts through the activation of nociceptors. Over a sequence of impacts applied with nearly constant force the perception of pain is therefore progressively intensifying until a maximum level of activation is reached. For that reason a facile impact can already cause an acute pain sensation after a certain number of preceding strokes.\n\nThe subjective experience of corporal suffering can however largely diverge according to a person's individual pain tolerance. The pain reception itself is hereby aggravated through feelings of anxiety and agitation. The subjective pain susceptibility is accordingly higher the more apprehensive the individual feels about it. Further the female gender generally experiences physical pain notably more intensive and typically reacts with a higher level of anxiety. At the same time women are distinctly sensitive to pressure pain. According to respective assertions women's subjective suffering under the infliction of foot whipping therefore is significantly more severe. The acute pain sensations can hereby be experienced as largely intolerable.\n\nSeizing and withholding the footwear from a person in a situation of imprisonment, which is commonplace in many countries (Barefoot#Imprisonment and slavery), often has a disconsolating and victimizing effect on the individual. As bare feet are traditionally regarded as a token of subjection and captivity, the unaccustomed and largely reluctant exposure is often perceived as humiliating or oppressive. The increased physical vulnerability by having to remain barefoot often leads to trepidation and the feeling of insecurity.\nThis measure alone can therefore already cause significant distress.\n\nThis circumstance is usually aggravated if the bare feet are the target for corporal punishment.\nThe feet are typically hidden away and protected by footwear in most social situations, hereby avoiding unwanted exposure. Therefore, the enforced exposure for the purpose of punishment is mostly perceived as a form of harassment. The obligatory restraints further add to the anxiety and humiliation of the captive.\n\nAny form of methodical corporal punishment typically causes a high level of distress through the inflicted pain and the experience of being defenseless and unable to evade the situation. The mostly occurring loss of composure during the punishment as well as the experience of weakness and vulnerability often permanently damages a person’s self-esteem.\n\nBeating the undersides of a person's feet moreover conveys an especially steep imbalance in power between the executing party (prison staff or similar) towards the receiving individual (typically prison inmate). A rather private area of the body, which traditionally remains covered or not visible in the presence of other people, is forcibly exposed and beaten. This act represents a blunt intrusion into the sphere of personal privacy and an according elimination of personal boundaries. By this means the receiving person experiences his or her individual powerlessness against the executing authority in a particularly manifest way. This experience can also change or deconstruct the individual's self-perception and self-awareness.\n\nAs a result, the experience of bastinado leads to drastic physical and mental suffering for the receiving individual and is therefore regarded as a highly effectual method of corporal punishment. \nExploiting the effects of bastinado on a person, it is still frequently employed on prisoners in several countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "5666951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5666951", "title": "How Rude!", "text": "How Rude!\n\nHow Rude! is an American series of comic manners books for teens written by educator and psychologist Alex J. Packer, PhD.\n\nTitles include:\n\nIn 465 pages, \"How Rude!: The Teenagers' Guide to Good Manners, Proper Behavior and Not Grossing People Out\" covers most aspects of life that teens are likely to encounter. The text is broken up into short, \"bite-sized\" chunks for easy reading.\n\nAccording to Packer, \"Good manners are good for you. They impress people. They build self-esteem. They can help you get what you want from life: friends, fun, success and respect. \"And they don't cost anything\".\" Seeking to avoid the stereotype of etiquette books as preachy and dull, \"How Rude!\" keeps teenage readers amused as they learn the basics of polite behavior in all kinds of situations: at home, at school, in public, with friends, with strangers, at the mall, at the movies, on the phone, online, in conversations, at job interviews, in restaurants, on elevators, in cars, on skateboards, at parties, at formal dinners, on the bus and anywhere they go.\n\nYoung readers find out how to cope with cliques, handle friendship problems, be a host with the most (and a guest with the best), offer someone their seat, fight fair, answer invitations, deal with rude adults, respond to bigoted remarks, write a letter, dress properly for any occasion, master the proper techniques for civilized spitting, scratching, sneezing, yawning, coughing, hiccuping, nose-picking and much more.\n\nHundreds of \"Dear Alex\" questions and answers cover everything from dating to breaking up, thank-you notes to table manners, ethnic jokes to obscene phone calls, skiing to driving. \"True Stories from the Manners Frontier\" divulge the shocking consequences of \"not\" having good manners. Survey results reveal what teens, parents and teachers think about manners and why they are important.\n\n\"How Rude!\" was selected by Young Adult Library Services Association (YALSA) as a \"Popular Paperback for Young Adults\" and a \"Quick Pick for Reluctant Young Adult Readers.\"\n\n\"Voice of Youth Advocates\" called \"How Rude!\" \"the most incredibly readable, enjoyable, laughable, enlightening and insightful book.\" \"College Bound\" magazine described \"How Rude!\" as \"...one fast-paced, fun-to-read book that covers the basics of good behavior for teens... Just one look at the table of contents will convince you that this isn't your grandma's guidebook. This is a wonderfully hip and humorous easy read!\"\n\n\"School Library Journal\" wrote, \"From its intriguing title to the tongue-in-cheek ideas for dealing with many kinds of situations, readers will find this manual humorous, non-threatening, entertaining and educational.\"\n\nPacker is an author of many books on parenting. He is President Emeritus of FCD Educational Services, which provides drug education to colleges and schools.\n\nOther books by Packer include: \"Wise Highs!: How to Thrill, Chill and Get Away from It All Without Alcohol or Other Drugs\"; \"Parenting One Day at a Time\"; \"Bringing Up Parents: The Teenager's Handbook\"; \"365 Ways to Love Your Child\"; and with co-author John Dacey, Ph.D., \"The Nurturing Parent: How to Rasie Creative, Loving, Responsible Children\". Packer's books have been translated into many languages including Spanish, German, Serbian, Mandarin, Romanian, Greek, Japanese, Korean and Thai.\n"}
{"id": "46523624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46523624", "title": "Human rights in cyberspace", "text": "Human rights in cyberspace\n\nHuman rights in cyberspace is a relatively new and uncharted area of law. The United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) has stated that the freedoms of expression and information under Article 19(2) of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) include the freedom to receive and communicate information, ideas and opinions through the Internet.\n\nAn important clause is Article 19(3) of the ICCPR, which provides that:The exercise of the right provided in paragraph two of this article carries with it special duties and responsibilities. It may therefore be subjected to certain restrictions, but these shall only be such as are provided by law and are necessary:(a) For respect of the rights or reputations of others;(b) For the protection of national security or of public order, or of public health and morals.The HRC has stated that \"the same rights that people have offline must also be protected online\" (mentioning, in particular, freedom of expression).<ref name=\"UN Doc A/HRC/RES/20/8 (2012), para1\"></ref> It is widely regarded that this freedom of information must be balanced with other rights. The question is raised whether people's expectations of human rights are different in cyberspace.\n\nPublic privacy encompasses freedom of information and expression on the Internet on the one side, and security and privacy in cyberspace on the other side. In the context of cyberspace, privacy means using the Internet as a service tool for private purposes without the fear of third parties accessing and using user data in various ways without their consent. \n\nThe right to freedom encompasses the right of expression and is stated in several international treaties. The right includes freedom to receive and impart information and ideas and to hold opinions without any state interference. It also includes the right to express oneself in any medium including exchanging ideas and thoughts through Internet platforms or social networks. Freedom means the right to political expression especially when it raises matters of public importance. \n\nMost democratic countries advance the installation of the Internet for economic and communication purposes; therefore, political expression is given some protection on the Internet. Some governments actively move to protect citizen's data on the Internet. However, these intergovernmental agreements can lead to misuse and abuse of private data, which in turn can affect many other fundamental freedoms and basic human rights. The challenge for governments is balancing private interests with rules against privacy and freedom rights for all.\n\nGerman political scientist Anja Mihr says that cyberspace harbors more individuals than any other country in the world, yet it is without any government, legislative bodies, law enforcement or any other sort of constitution. Without these mechanisms difficulties arise in protecting and enjoying citizen's rights. International Governmental Organisations (IGO's), such as the United Nations (UN), the Organization of American States, the African Union or the European Union aim to set international standards for the use of cyberspace and the Internet to be enforced by national governments, but commonly fail to do so. The problem is that state powers and their mechanisms of enforcement do not extend past the state's borders. \n\nBecause cyberspace has no borders, the ways and means to govern it are as-yet undefined. This leads to problems wherein those who are willing to commit crimes find it easier to cross borders through the web, as it is unclear where jurisdiction lies. If a governing regime was ever established, it would most likely consist of multiple stakeholders and actors including national, international, and private actors such as representatives of companies, social networks, nongovernmental organizations as well as individuals.\n\nA question arises when there is a breach of an individual's basic human rights. Should the liability fall only on the originator of the breached right, or should the burden also fall on the Internet service provider (ISP)? This is an especially relevant issue when it comes to balancing free speech against defamation. The increasing speed and limitless audience of the Internet pose a greater danger to individuals and their reputations. \n\nISPs may not have the means to monitor content published on their websites, and may be unaware that a defamatory statement exists on their site. This was demonstrated in the case Cubby, Inc. v. CompuServe Inc. where it was found that the ISP was acting as a mere distributor and could not be liable for the content posted on its bulletin. However, in Stratton Oakmont, Inc. v. Prodigy Services Co. the New York Supreme Court held that Prodigy acted as a publisher with an editorial function, and so was found liable. \n\nThese cases highlight the ambiguity surrounding the liability placed upon ISPs. A further question is whether ISPs will take it upon themselves to function as “moral guardians” of cyberspace. If over-fanatical ISPs start refusing to host certain Internet sites, this may, in turn, compromise rights for the freedom of speech and freedom of expression. In comparison, ambiguity about ISPs liability could mean ISPs permit content without regard to its potentially harmful effects.\n\nGiven the prevalence of hacking, viruses and zero day exploits, the World Wide Web (WWW) is a non-secure storage space for the storage of sensitive private information. Cyberspace is a tool where individuals can exercise their freedom rights, but cyberspace cannot guarantee our freedom. Today there are around 2.5 billion internet users. We are living in a world where everyone has a long data trail, so internet security is a high priority.\n\nToday more people than ever have a common understanding of privacy or freedom of expression therefore share common ideas as to how to protect and secure their private data. Still according to the Freedom in the Net Index issued in 2013, most countries in the world censor Internet freedom, some more than others. Countries will do this in various ways. For example, using Internet police. There are many methods of filtering and censoring the exercise of freedom rights. \n\nThe EU has invested in many filtering projects such as NETprotect I and II, ICRAsafe and the PRINCIP programme. It has been stated that self-censorship Internet users impose upon themselves is probably the most serious threat to Internet freedom. Mass surveillance and fear of private communications being made public lead to self-censorship. This results in individuals no longer using search engines or social networks to express their personal beliefs, ideas or opinions, as certain keywords may trigger concerns with national security agencies, resulting in the Internet becoming a political tool of manipulation.\n\nDiscriminatory behaviors that occur ‘offline’ also occur ‘online’ One of these behaviors is ‘cyber bullying’. Cyberbullying affects at least one in ten students in Australia. Cyberbullying can impact on a range of human rights including: the right to the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health; rights to work and fair working conditions; the right to freedom of expression and to hold opinions without interference; a child or young person’s right to leisure and play.\n\nCyber racism can be in the form of individuals posting racist comments or participating in group pages specifically set up for a racist purpose. A well publicised example of this was an Aboriginal memes Facebook page that consisted of various images of indigenous people with racist captions. It was reported that Facebook classified the page as ‘controversial humour’.\n\nArticle 20 of the ICCPR states “Any advocacy of national, racial or religious hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence shall be prohibited by law.” Hate speech is intended to disturb violence or prejudicial actions against a group of people based on their ethnicity, race, nationality or sexual orientation. Cyberspace has also been used in this way as a medium for destruction. \n\nThe danger to human rights becomes apparent when terrorists form together to scheme and agitate people to commit violence towards a common good. “Al-Qaeda” moved to cyberspace, “the ultimate ungoverned territory” where schools were set up for promotion of ideological and military training and active propaganda arms. It has become a stated subject of importance that these situations are monitored to prepare for future generations of cyber-terrorists.\n\nThe future of human rights in cyberspace depends on the evolution of the law and its interpretation by national and international governing bodies. Jon Bing warns that once rules and regulations are automated, they become extremely arduous to subject to judicial review. Bing states that we face a situation in which “technology [is] implementing the law”. \n\nRoger Brownsword looked at some of the issues associated with developments in biotechnology and human rights alongside those raised by digital technologies and suggested three ethical positions on the issues: a utilitarian pragmatic stance, a defense of human rights, and a “dignitarian alliance”. Of the three positions, Brownsword claims the first two are popular in the UK, stating that technologies are being developed that treat human subjects as if they lack autonomy and the capacity to choose for themselves. \n\nRecent official discussions have taken place as to the future of cyberspace. In April 2008, the Virtual Law Conference was held in New York. The conference included participants such as Microsoft, Sony, and the Walt Disney Company. The agenda included discussion of intellectual property enforcement, legal issues arising from virtual currency, legal issues arising from virtual property, ethical concerns for attorneys and executives in virtual worlds, and how to litigate a virtual lawsuit. \n\nThe US Congressional Hearing on Virtual Worlds took place with the purpose of education and exploring the prospects of virtual worlds. The agenda included an analysis of concerns related to consumer protection, intellectual property protection, and child protection, among others. This hearing was one of the first legislative inquiries into virtual worlds. It remains to be seen whether either of these gatherings hold any lasting impact on the field, which continues to rapidly evolve in lockstep with advancing technology.\n\n"}
{"id": "201055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201055", "title": "Ideography", "text": "Ideography\n\nIdeography may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2637941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2637941", "title": "John Perry (philosopher)", "text": "John Perry (philosopher)\n\nJohn Richard Perry (born 1943) is Henry Waldgrave Stuart Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at Stanford University and Distinguished Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at the University of California, Riverside. He has made significant contributions to philosophy in the fields of philosophy of language, metaphysics, and philosophy of mind. He is known primarily for his work on situation semantics (together with Jon Barwise), reflexivity, indexicality, personal identity, and self-knowledge.\n\nJohn Perry was born in Lincoln, Nebraska on January 16, 1943. He received his B.A. in philosophy from Doane College in 1964 and his Ph.D. in philosophy from Cornell University in 1968 under the supervision of Sydney Shoemaker. He taught philosophy at the University of California, Los Angeles, before joining the faculty at Stanford University where he is Henry Waldgrave Professor of Philosophy Emeritus. He subsequently taught at the University of California, Riverside, where he is now Distinguished Professor of Philosophy Emeritus.\n\nHe was awarded the Jean Nicod Prize in 1999. He is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.\n\nIn 2004, he became co-host, with Kenneth Taylor, of \"Philosophy Talk,\" the radio program that \"questions everything... except your intelligence.\" He is also part of the Center for the Study of Language and Information (CSLI)—an independent research center founded in 1983.\n\nPerry has made contributions to many areas of philosophy, including logic, philosophy of language, metaphysics, and philosophy of mind.\n\nPerry's 1978 book \"A Dialogue on Personal Identity and Immortality\" deals with standard problems in the theory of personal identity in the form of a dialogue between a mortally wounded university professor, Gretchen Weirob, and her two friends, Sam Miller and Dave Cohen. The views represented include those of Bernard Williams, John Locke, and Derek Parfit. The format of associating different philosophical positions with different characters in a dialogue recalls David Hume's \"Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion\".\n\nIn 1979, Perry published \"The Problem of the Essential Indexical\" in which he combined his work on philosophy of language and philosophy of mind. Essential indexicals (I, here, and now) are parts of language that cannot be paraphrased away. They are seen as locating beliefs and are essential to understand the speaker's belief. Perry presents a now famous example to illustrate his point:\n\n\"I once followed a trail of sugar on a supermarket floor, pushing my cart down the aisle on one side of a tall counter and back the aisle on the other, seeking the shopper with the torn sack to tell him he was making a mess. With each trip around the counter, the trail became thicker. But I seemed unable to catch up. Finally it dawned on me. I was the shopper I was trying to catch.\"\n\nIn this example, the pronoun \"I\" is essentially indexical because it allowed Perry to realize that it was he himself making the mess. This realization caused him to change his behavior. Essential indexicals create the impetus for action. They cannot be paraphrased away while retaining their immediacy. If Perry were to say \"Perry realized that Perry was making a mess\", it would still not be essentially indexical because Perry would still have to understand that he himself is Perry. Without that extra step, there would be no reason for him to change his action. \"I\" is the only essential indexical in that situation.\n\nIn logic, Perry and Jon Barwise are known for discussion of the slingshot argument, especially in their 1981 article \"Semantic Innocence and Uncompromising Situations\".\n\nIn his 2001 book \"Knowledge, Possibility and Consciousness\", Perry argues for what he calls \"antecedent physicalism\", according to which physicalism is antecedently taken to be a plausible and reasonable position, provided that there are no better rival theories. Thus, Perry defends a version of type physicalism against three major philosophical arguments for dualism: the zombie argument, the knowledge argument, and the modal argument.\n\nPerry also produces non-technical work that reaches a wider audience, such as his humorous 1996 online essay entitled \"Structured Procrastination\". Perry was awarded an Ig Nobel Prize in Literature for this essay in 2011. It states that \"[t]o be a high achiever, always work on something important, using it as a way to avoid doing something that's even more important\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41209755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41209755", "title": "Kammaññatā", "text": "Kammaññatā\n\nKammaññatā (Pali) is a Buddhist term translated as \"wieldiness\", and it is the basis for the following pair of mental factors within the Theravada Abhidharma teachings:\n\nThese two mental factors have the characteristic of the subsiding of unwieldiness (\"akammaññabhāva\") in the mental body and consciousness, respectively.\n\nBhikkhu Bodhi states:\n\nNina van Gorkom explains:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1928638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1928638", "title": "Machfeld", "text": "Machfeld\n\nMACHFELD is an Austrian art duo.\nFounded in 1999 by media artists Michael Mastrototaro and Sabine Maier in Vienna, Austria, they work in different fields: Netart, short and experimental films, streaming projects, interactive installations, and art in public space. Projects, exhibitions and screenings have been held in Africa, Europe, Central America and the United States of America.\n\nExamples of their work include \"The Game 1\" (2002), a comparative experiment about the social behavior of individuals as a function of the medial context. The comparison took place between the real and the virtual world: participants had the possibility of playing with two women, like they were puppets.\n\n\nMACHFELD is represented by Galerie Raum mit Licht, Vienna, Austria\n\n\n16 mm films from MACHFELD are distributed by:\nCanyon Cinema\n\n\n\n\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20071106111920/http://www.machfeld.net/machfeld/ (German version only)\n\n"}
{"id": "48678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48678", "title": "Mahātmā", "text": "Mahātmā\n\nMahatma () is Sanskrit for \"Great Soul\" (महात्मा \"mahātmā\": महा \"mahā\" (great) + आत्मं or आत्मन \"ātman\" [soul]). It is similar in usage to the modern English term saint. This epithet is commonly applied to prominent people like Basaveshwara (1105-1167), Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi (1869-1948), Munshiram (later Swami Shraddhananda, 1856–1926), Lalon Shah (1772–1890), Ayyankali (1863-1941) and Jyotirao Phule (1827–1890). It has also been historically used for a class of Jain scholars.\n\nAccording to Rabindranath Tagore is said to have used on March 6, 1915, this title for Gandhi. Some claim that he was called Mahatma by the residents of Gurukul Kangadi in April 1915, and he in turn called the founder Munshiram a Mahatma (who later became Swami Shraddhananda). However, a document honoring him with the title \"Mahatma\" on Jan 21, 1915, in Jetpur, Gujarat, by Nautamlal Bhagvanji Mehta is preserved at the National Gandhi Museum in New Delhi, India. This document remains the earliest record of the title \"Mahatma\" being bestowed upon Gandhi. The use of the term Mahatma in Jainism to denote a class of lay priests, has been noted since the 17th century. A Mahatma is someone who practices Trikaranasuddhi.\n\nThe word, used in a technical sense, was popularized in theosophical literature in the late 19th century, when Madame Helena Blavatsky, one of the founders of the Theosophical Society, claimed that her teachers were adepts (or Mahatmas) who reside in Asia.\n\nAccording to the Theosophical teachings, the Mahatmas are not disembodied beings, but highly evolved people involved in overseeing the spiritual growth of individuals and the development of civilizations. Blavatsky was the first person in modern times to claim contact with these Adepts, especially the \"Masters\" Koot Hoomi and Morya. Alvin Boyd Kuhn wrote about mahātmās:\n\nThe Masters whom Theosophy presents to us are simply high-ranking students in life's school of experience. They are members of our own evolutionary group, not visitants from the celestial spheres. They are supermen only in that they have attained knowledge of the laws of life and mastery over its forces with which we are still struggling.\nIn September and October 1880, Blavatsky visited A. P. Sinnett at Simla in northern India. Sinnett wrote \"The Occult World\" (1881) and \"Esoteric Buddhism\" (1883).\n\nThere has been a great deal of controversy concerning the existence of adepts. Blavatsky's critics have doubted the existence of her Masters. See, for example, W. E. Coleman's \"exposes\".\n\nAfter Blavatsky's death in 1891, numerous individuals have claimed to be in contact with her Adept Teachers. These individuals have stated that they are new \"messengers\" of the Masters and they have conveyed various esoteric teachings. Currently, various New Age, metaphysical, and religious organizations refer to them as Ascended Masters, although their character and teachings are in several respects different from those described by Theosophical writers.\n\nSome individuals believe that Mahatma Maitreya (also called World Teacher) will make contact with all Humanity in January 2017.\n\nThe Divine Light Mission (DLM) was a Sant Mat-based movement begun in India in the 1930s by Hans Ji Maharaj and formally incorporated in 1960. The DLM had as many as 2,000 Mahatmas, all from India or Tibet, who taught the DLM's secret meditation techniques called \"Knowledge\". The Mahatmas, called \"realised souls\", or \"apostles\", also served as local leaders. After Hans Ji's death in 1966 his youngest son, Prem Rawat (known then as Guru Maharaj Ji or Bagyogeshwar), succeeded him. The young guru appointed some new Mahatmas, including one from the United States. In one incident, a prominent Indian Mahatma nearly beat a man to death in Detroit for throwing a pie at the guru. In the early 1980s, Prem Rawat replaced the Divine Light Mission organization with the Elan Vital and replaced the Mahatmas with initiators. The initiators did not have the revered status of the Mahatmas, and they were drawn mostly from Western followers. In the 2000s, the initiators were replaced by a video in which Rawat teaches the techniques himself.\n\nW.C. Fields used the pseudonym Mahatma Kane Jeeves when writing the script for \"The Bank Dick\" (1940), in a play on both the word \"Mahatma\" and a phrase an aristocrat might use when addressing a servant, before leaving the house: \"My hat, my cane, Jeeves\".\n\nAmong the Jains the term Mahatma is used for class for scholars who are householders.\n\nThe Mewad Ramayana described as \"one of the most beautiful manuscripts in the world\" has been digitally reunited after being split between organisations in the UK and India for over 150 years, by the British Library and CSMVS Museum in Mumbai. The colophon states that the text, commissioned by Acarya Jasvant for the library of Maharana Jagat Singh I of Mewar, was written by the Mahatma Hirananda, was finished on Friday 25 November 1650. Mahatma Hirananda being a Jain scribe, incorporated traditional Jain scribal elements into the manuscript.\n\nThe famous Dabestan-e Mazaheb often attributed to one Mohsin Fani, written around 1655 CE. is a text written in the Mughal period that describes various religions and philosophies the author encountered. Its Section 11 is dedicated to Jainism. It states: \"Similar to the durvishes of both classes (Srivaras and Jatis) is a third sect, called Mahá-átma; they have the dress and appearance of Jatis; only they do not pluck their hair with tweezers, but cut it. They accumulate money, cook their meal in their houses, drink cold water, and take to them a wife.\" The term Mahatma was thus used for priest/scholars who were not celibate. The present Persian edition of the text by Rezazadeh Malik attributes it to the son and successor of Azar Kayvan, 'Kay Khosrow Esfandiyar'.\n\nK. Paul Johnson in his books speculates that the \"Masters\" that Blavatsky wrote about and produced letters from were actually idealizations of people who were her mentors. Aryel Sanat, author of \"The inner life of Krishnamurti: private passion and perennial wisdom\", wrote that Johnson \"claims in all of his books that there were no Masters at all in early [Theosophical Society] history, & that [Helena Blavatsky] invented them (as others had claimed she had invented her travels).\" Sanat wrote that Johnson \"deliberately ignores the main sources of evidence for their real physical existence.\" What Sanat thought these were is not made quite clear.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29425253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29425253", "title": "Manifest covariance", "text": "Manifest covariance\n\nIn general relativity, a manifestly covariant equation is one in which all expressions are tensors. The operations of addition, tensor multiplication, tensor contraction, raising and lowering indices, and covariant differentiation may appear in the equation. Forbidden terms include but are not restricted to partial derivatives. Tensor densities, especially integrands and variables of integration, may be allowed in manifestly covariant equations if they are clearly weighted by the appropriate power of the determinant of the metric. \n\nWriting an equation in manifestly covariant form is useful because it guarantees general covariance upon quick inspection. If an equation is manifestly covariant, and if it reduces to a correct, corresponding equation in special relativity when evaluated instantaneously in a local inertial frame, then it is usually the correct generalization of the special relativistic equation in general relativity.\n\nAn equation may be Lorentz covariant even if it is not manifestly covariant. Consider the electromagnetic field tensor\n\nwhere formula_2 is the electromagnetic four-potential in the Lorenz gauge. The equation above contains partial derivatives and is therefore not manifestly covariant. Note that the partial derivatives may be written in terms of covariant derivatives and Christoffel symbols as\n\nFor a torsion-free metric assumed in general relativity, we may appeal to the symmetry of the Christoffel symbols\n\nwhich allows the field tensor to be written in manifestly covariant form\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47014", "title": "Metric time", "text": "Metric time\n\nMetric time is the measure of time interval using the metric system, which defines the second as the base unit of time, and multiple and submultiple units formed with metric prefixes, such as kiloseconds and milliseconds. It does not define the time of day, as this is defined by various time scales, which may be based upon the metric definition of the second. Other units of time, the minute, hour, and day, are accepted for use with the modern metric system, but are not part of it.\n\nAlthough part of the decimal metric system, the second derives its name from the sexagesimal system, which originated with the Sumerians and Babylonians, and divides a base unit into sixty minutes, minutes into sixty seconds, seconds into sixty tierces, etc. The word \"minute\" comes from the Latin \"pars minuta prima\", meaning first small part, and \"second\" from \"pars minuta secunda\" or second small part. Angular measure also uses these sexagesimal units; in that field, it is the degree that is subdivided into minutes and seconds, while in time, it is the hour.\n\nWhen the metric system was introduced in France in 1795, it included units for length, area, dry volume, liquid capacity, weight or mass, and even currency, but not for time. Decimal time of day had been introduced in France two years earlier, but was set aside at the same time the metric system was inaugurated, and did not follow the metric pattern of a base unit and prefixed units. James Clerk Maxwell and Elihu Thomson (through the British Association for the Advancement of Science - BAAS) introduced the Centimetre gram second system of units (cgs) in 1874, in order to derive electric and magnetic metric units, following the recommendation of Carl Friedrich Gauss in 1832.\n\nThe ephemeris second (defined as 1/86400 of a mean solar day) was made one of the original base units of the modern metric system, or International System of Units (SI), at the 10th General Conference on Weights and Measures (CGPM) in 1954. Because the planet Earth's rotation is slowly decelerating at an irregular rate and was thus unsuitable as a reference point for precise measurements, the SI second was later redefined more precisely as\nthe duration of 9,192,631,770 periods of the radiation corresponding to the transition between the two hyperfine levels of the ground state of the caesium-133 atom. The international standard atomic clocks use caesium-133 measurements as their main benchmark.\n\nNumerous proposals have been made for alternative base units of metric time. On March 28, 1794, the president of the commission which developed the metric system, Joseph Louis Lagrange, proposed in a report to the commission the names \"déci-jour\" and \"centi-jour\" (deciday and centiday in English). Base units equivalent to decimal divisions of the day, such as 1/10, 1/100, 1/1000, or 1/100,000 day, or other divisions of the day, such as 1/20 or 1/40 day, have also been proposed, with various names, and multiple and submultiple units formed with metric prefixes. Such alternative units have not gained any notable acceptance.\n\nA decimal second = 1/100,000 of a day = 0.864 s is an obvious alternative. Any redefinition of the second, however, creates conflicts with anything based on its precise current definition.\n\nSwatch Internet Time introduced a time unit called .beat, equal to the French decimal minute, with 1,000 decimal minutes in a day. In the French decimal time system there are 100 decimal seconds in a decimal minute. As there are 100,000 decimal seconds in the day, the decimal second is shorter than its counterpart. See Decimal time#Conversions.\n\nAnother unit for time, more familiar than some other suggestions, could be 14.4 minutes, i.e. a shorter \"quarter of an hour\", or a \"centiday\", as proposed by Lagrange. The centiday (called \"kè\" in Chinese) was used in China for thousands of years.\n\nIn the 19th century, Joseph Charles François de Rey-Pailhade proposed using the centiday, abbreviated \"cé\", divided into 10 \"decicés\", 100 \"centicés\", 1000 \"millicés\". and 10000 \"dimicés\".\n\nIn 1897, the \"Commission de décimalisation du temps\" was created by the French Bureau of Longitude, with the mathematician Henri Poincaré as secretary. The commission proposed making the standard hour the base unit of metric time, but the proposal did not gain acceptance and was eventually abandoned.\n\nMetric time is sometimes used to mean decimal time. Metric time properly refers to measurement of time interval, while decimal time refers to the time of day. Standard time of day is usually measured by the 24-hour clock or its closely related derivative, the 12-hour clock. These measurement systems are now based on the metric base unit of time, the second. Some proposals for alternative units of metric time are accompanied by decimal time scales for telling the time of day. Other proposals called \"metric time\" refer only to decimal time and are therefore not truly metric.\n\nFrench decimal time is sometimes called \"metric time\" because it was introduced around the same time as the metric system and both were decimal. The April 7, 1795 decree creating the original metric units and prefixes actually suspended decimal time, which had named its units the (decimal) hour, minute and second instead of using metric prefixes.\n\nIn computing, at least internally, metric time gained widespread use for ease of computation. Unix time gives date and time as the number of seconds since January 1, 1970, and Microsoft's FILETIME as multiples of 100ns since January 1, 1601. VAX/VMS uses the number of 100ns since November 17, 1858 and RISC OS the number of centiseconds since January 1, 1900.\n\nNone of these systems is strictly linear, as they each have discontinuities at leap seconds.\n\nWhile larger metric prefixes of a second are rarely used, subdivision prefixes are well established within science and technology. Milliseconds, microseconds and smaller units (but not centiseconds) are well established.\n\nOne problem lies in the size of time units created using metric prefixes. The International System of Units has developed prefixes to express units as exponential multiples or sub-multiples. The first three multiples would be viable for use within a metric time system; they are:\n\nHowever, the next multiples are:\n\nSuch lengths of time are relatively impractical for measuring human activities.\n\nFor decimal multiples of the metric time unit to be practical, standard units and prefixes would need to be developed or revived for the 4th and 5th exponents so that it becomes viable for measuring human life. Historically, the metric system included a \"myria-\" prefix to represent 10 (and a counterpart \"dimi-\" prefix for 10), but SI (introduced in 1960) omitted the prefixes and prohibited using multiple prefixes such as decahecto-, a workaround also in use prior to the SI, leaving no way to name those orders of magnitude. 10 was represented using various \"ad hoc\" solutions; 100 000 meters composed a grade, 100 000 pascals composed a bar, and 100 000 dynes composed a newton; most of these conversions stem from compatible units that were used in the SI (and its predecessor, MKS) and the CGS system of units. Meteorologists currently use a unit of 100 000 seconds (a quantity on the order of a day) to quantify atmospheric vorticity at the synoptic scale; the unit, however, does not have a formal name.\n\nThe only way to express a nonstandard order of magnitude as an SI unit is to combine two prefixed SI derived units whose component base units cancel out; for example, units of 10 seconds could be expressed as \"kilojoules per centiwatt\" (kJ/cW) or \"hectocoulombs per milliampere\" (hC/mA). Such misuse of SI derived units can create a cognitive dissonance; to do so requires the invocation of units not directly related to the quantity being measured (coulombs and amperes, for example, quantify electricity, making it awkward to combine the two in a way that creates a unit of time with no electrical component).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "178652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=178652", "title": "Moral example", "text": "Moral example\n\nMoral example is trust in the moral core of another, a role model. It was cited by Confucius, Muhammad, Mohandas Gandhi and other important philosophers and theologians as the prime duty of a ruler - including the head of a family or the owner of a business. \n\nIt is the case that since the exact circumstances and decisions of the lives of such moral examples cannot be reproduced or repeated, followers are often reduced to following their etiquette and customs, e.g. in ancestor worship.\n\nStorytelling can take a central role in any culture built on moral example, particularly when the provider of the moral example does not refer to an explicit ethical theory or philosophy as the basis for his behavior. A complex culture built on such stories can fall prey to a clique of experts who interpret them for the lay public. This has led in the past to institutions that sort through anecdotes to decide which of them are true, e.g. isnad in Islam by which the hadith are validated.\n\nChristians still see Jesus as the ultimate divine example- in Epistle to the Hebrews: \"looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith\" (12:2).\n\n"}
{"id": "5007562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5007562", "title": "Oblate spheroidal coordinates", "text": "Oblate spheroidal coordinates\n\nOblate spheroidal coordinates are a three-dimensional orthogonal coordinate system that results from rotating the two-dimensional elliptic coordinate system about the non-focal axis of the ellipse, i.e., the symmetry axis that separates the foci. Thus, the two foci are transformed into a ring of radius formula_1 in the \"x\"-\"y\" plane. (Rotation about the other axis produces prolate spheroidal coordinates.) Oblate spheroidal coordinates can also be considered as a limiting case of ellipsoidal coordinates in which the two largest semi-axes are equal in length.\n\nOblate spheroidal coordinates are often useful in solving partial differential equations when the boundary conditions are defined on an oblate spheroid or a hyperboloid of revolution. For example, they played an important role in the calculation of the Perrin friction factors, which contributed to the awarding of the 1926 Nobel Prize in Physics to Jean Baptiste Perrin. These friction factors determine the rotational diffusion of molecules, which affects the feasibility of many techniques such as protein NMR and from which the hydrodynamic volume and shape of molecules can be inferred. Oblate spheroidal coordinates are also useful in problems of electromagnetism (e.g., dielectric constant of charged oblate molecules), acoustics (e.g., scattering of sound through a circular hole), fluid dynamics (e.g., the flow of water through a firehose nozzle) and the diffusion of materials and heat (e.g., cooling of a red-hot coin in a water bath)\n\nThe most common definition of oblate spheroidal coordinates formula_2 is\n\nwhere formula_6 is a nonnegative real number and the angle formula_7. The azimuthal angle formula_8 can fall anywhere on a full circle, between formula_9. These coordinates are favored over the alternatives below because they are not degenerate; the set of coordinates formula_2 describes a unique point in Cartesian coordinates formula_11. The reverse is also true, except on the formula_12-axis and the disk in the formula_13 plane inside the focal ring.\n\nThe surfaces of constant μ form oblate spheroids, by the trigonometric identity\n\nsince they are ellipses rotated about the \"z\"-axis, which separates their foci. An ellipse in the \"x\"-\"z\" plane (Figure 2) has a major semiaxis of length \"a\" cosh μ along the \"x\"-axis, whereas its minor semiaxis has length \"a\" sinh μ along the \"z\"-axis. The foci of all the ellipses in the \"x\"-\"z\" plane are located on the \"x\"-axis at ±\"a\".\n\nSimilarly, the surfaces of constant ν form one-sheet half hyperboloids of revolution by the hyperbolic trigonometric identity\n\nFor positive ν, the half-hyperboloid is above the \"x\"-\"y\" plane (i.e., has positive \"z\") whereas for negative ν, the half-hyperboloid is below the \"x\"-\"y\" plane (i.e., has negative \"z\"). Geometrically, the angle ν corresponds to the angle of the asymptotes of the hyperbola. The foci of all the hyperbolae are likewise located on the \"x\"-axis at ±\"a\".\n\nThe (μ, ν, φ) coordinates may be calculated from the Cartesian coordinates (\"x\", \"y\", \"z\") as follows. The azimuthal angle φ is given by the formula\n\nThe cylindrical radius ρ of the point P is given by\n\nand its distances to the foci in the plane defined by φ is given by\n\nThe remaining coordinates μ and ν can be calculated from the equations\n\nwhere the sign of μ is always non-negative, and the sign of ν is the same as that of \"z\".\n\nAnother method to compute the inverse transform is\n\nwhere\n\nThe scale factors for the coordinates μ and ν are equal\n\nwhereas the azimuthal scale factor equals\n\nConsequently, an infinitesimal volume element equals\n\nand the Laplacian can be written\n\nOther differential operators such as formula_30 and formula_31 can be expressed in the coordinates (μ, ν, φ) by substituting the scale factors into the general formulae found in orthogonal coordinates.\n\nThe orthonormal basis vectors for the formula_32 coordinate system can be expressed in Cartesian coordinates as\n\nwhere formula_36 are the Cartesian unit vectors. Here, formula_37 is the outward normal vector to the oblate spheroidal surface of constant formula_6, formula_39 is the same azimuthal unit vector from spherical coordinates, and formula_40 lies in the tangent plane to the oblate spheroid surface and completes the right-handed basis set.\n\nAnother set of oblate spheroidal coordinates formula_41 are sometimes used where formula_42 and formula_43 (Smythe 1968). The curves of constant formula_44 are oblate spheroids and the curves of constant formula_45 are the hyperboloids of revolution. The coordinate formula_44 is restricted by formula_47 and formula_45 is restricted by formula_49.\n\nThe relationship to Cartesian coordinates is\n\nThe scale factors for formula_53 are:\n\nKnowing the scale factors, various functions of the coordinates can be calculated by the general method outlined in the orthogonal coordinates article. The infinitesimal volume element is:\n\nThe gradient is:\n\nThe divergence is:\n\nand the Laplacian equals\n\nAs is the case with spherical coordinates and spherical harmonics, Laplace's equation may be solved by the method of separation of variables to yield solutions in the form of oblate spheroidal harmonics, which are convenient to use when boundary conditions are defined on a surface with a constant oblate spheroidal coordinate.\n\nFollowing the technique of separation of variables, a solution to Laplace's equation is written:\n\nThis yields three separate differential equations in each of the variables:\n\nwhere \"m\" is a constant which is an integer because the φ variable is periodic with period 2π. \"n\" will then be an integer. The solution to these equations are:\n\nwhere the formula_68 are constants and formula_69 and formula_70 are associated Legendre polynomials of the first and second kind respectively. The product of the three solutions is called an \"oblate spheroidal harmonic\" and the general solution to Laplace's equation is written:\n\nThe constants will combine to yield only four independent constants for each harmonic.\n\nAn alternative and geometrically intuitive set of oblate spheroidal coordinates (σ, τ, φ) are sometimes used, where σ = cosh μ and τ = cos ν. Therefore, the coordinate σ must be greater than or equal to one, whereas τ must lie between ±1, inclusive. The surfaces of constant σ are oblate spheroids, as were those of constant μ, whereas the curves of constant τ are full hyperboloids of revolution, including the half-hyperboloids corresponding to ±ν. Thus, these coordinates are degenerate; \"two\" points in Cartesian coordinates (\"x\", \"y\", ±\"z\") map to \"one\" set of coordinates (σ, τ, φ). This two-fold degeneracy in the sign of \"z\" is evident from the equations transforming from oblate spheroidal coordinates to the Cartesian coordinates\n\nThe coordinates formula_75 and formula_76 have a simple relation to the distances to the focal ring. For any point, the \"sum\" formula_77 of its distances to the focal ring equals formula_78, whereas their \"difference\" formula_79 equals formula_80. Thus, the \"far\" distance to the focal ring is formula_81, whereas the \"near\" distance is formula_82.\n\nSimilar to its counterpart μ, the surfaces of constant σ form oblate spheroids\n\nSimilarly, the surfaces of constant τ form full one-sheet hyperboloids of revolution\n\nThe scale factors for the alternative oblate spheroidal coordinates formula_85 are\n\nwhereas the azimuthal scale factor is formula_88.\n\nHence, the infinitesimal volume element can be written\n\nand the Laplacian equals\n\nOther differential operators such as formula_30 and formula_31 can be expressed in the coordinates formula_93 by substituting the scale factors into the general formulae found in orthogonal coordinates.\n\nAs is the case with spherical coordinates, Laplaces equation may be solved by the method of separation of variables to yield solutions in the form of oblate spheroidal harmonics, which are convenient to use when boundary conditions are defined on a surface with a constant oblate spheroidal coordinate (See Smythe, 1968).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1023857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1023857", "title": "Positive set theory", "text": "Positive set theory\n\nIn mathematical logic, positive set theory is the name for a class of alternative set theories in which the axiom of comprehension\n\n\nholds for at least the positive formulas formula_2 (the smallest class of formulas containing atomic membership and equality formulas and closed under conjunction, disjunction, existential and universal quantification).\n\nTypically, the motivation for these theories is topological: the sets are the classes which are closed under a certain topology. The closure conditions for the various constructions allowed in building positive formulas are readily motivated (and one can further justify the use of universal quantifiers bounded in sets to get generalized positive comprehension): the justification of the existential quantifier seems to require that the topology be compact.\n\nThe set theory formula_3 of Olivier Esser consists of the following axioms:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1455471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1455471", "title": "Pseudotensor", "text": "Pseudotensor\n\nIn physics and mathematics, a pseudotensor is usually a quantity that transforms like a tensor under an orientation-preserving coordinate transformation, \"e.g.\" a proper rotation, but additionally changes sign under an orientation reversing coordinate transformation, \"e.g.\", an improper rotation, that is a transformation expressed as a proper rotation followed by reflection. This is a generalization of a pseudovector.\n\nThere is a second meaning for pseudotensor, restricted to general relativity. Tensors obey strict transformation laws, but pseudotensors are not so constrained. Consequently, the form of a pseudotensor will, in general, change as the frame of reference is altered. An equation containing pseudotensors which holds in one frame will not necessarily hold in a different frame. This makes pseudotensors of limited relevance because equations in which they appear are not invariant in form.\n\nTwo quite different mathematical objects are called a pseudotensor in different contexts. \n\nThe first context is essentially a tensor multiplied by an extra sign factor, such that the pseudotensor changes sign under reflections when a normal tensor does not. According to one definition, a pseudotensor P of the type is a geometric object whose components in an arbitrary basis are enumerated by indices and obey the transformation rule\nunder a change of basis.\n\nHere formula_2 are the components of the pseudotensor in the new and old bases, respectively, formula_3 is the transition matrix for the contravariant indices, formula_4 is the transition matrix for the covariant indices, and formula_5.\nThis transformation rule differs from the rule for an ordinary tensor only by the presence of the factor (−1).\n\nThe second context where the word \"pseudotensor\" is used is general relativity. In that theory, one cannot describe the energy and momentum of the gravitational field by an energy–momentum tensor. Instead, one introduces objects that behave as tensors only with respect to restricted coordinate transformations. Strictly speaking, such objects are not tensors at all. A famous example of such a pseudotensor is the Landau–Lifshitz pseudotensor.\n\nOn non-orientable manifolds, one cannot define a volume form globally due to the non-orientability, but one can define a volume element, which is formally a density, and may also be called a \"pseudo-volume form\", due to the additional sign twist (tensoring with the sign bundle). The volume element is a pseudotensor density according to the first definition.\n\nA change of variables in multi-dimensional integration may be achieved through the incorporation of a factor of the absolute value of the determinant of the Jacobian matrix. The use of the absolute value introduces a sign change for improper coordinate transformations to compensate for the convention of keeping integration (volume) element positive; as such, an integrand is an example of a pseudotensor density according to the first definition.\n\nThe Christoffel symbols of an affine connection on a manifold can be thought of as the correction terms to the partial derivatives of a coordinate expression of a vector field with respect to the coordinates to renders the vector field's covariant derivative. While the affine connection itself doesn't depend on the choice of coordinates, its Christoffel symbols do, making them a pseudotensor quantity according to the second definition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19127843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19127843", "title": "Random Acts of Kindness Day", "text": "Random Acts of Kindness Day\n\nRandom Acts of Kindness Day is a day to celebrate and encourage random acts of kindness. \"It's just a day to celebrate kindness and the whole pay it forward mentality\", said Tracy Van Kalsbeek, executive director of the Stratford Perth Community Foundation, in 2016, where the day is celebrated on November 4. It is celebrated on September 1 in New Zealand and on February 17 in the US. \n\nThe Random Acts of Kindness Foundation (RAK) was founded in 1995 in the US. It is a nonprofit headquartered in Denver, Colorado. \n\nRandom Acts of Kindness (RAK) day began in 2004 in New Zealand. \n\nIdeas include: \n\n"}
{"id": "52114563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52114563", "title": "Reginald Hawkins", "text": "Reginald Hawkins\n\nReginald Hawkins (1923–2007) was a civil rights activist in Charlotte, NC for most of his life. He was the first African-American to run for Governor of North Carolina. He fought to desegregate Charlotte schools and businesses. His son-in-law was Hamaas Abdul Khaalis whose family was murdered in 1973 and who went on to commit the 1977 Hanafi Siege.\n\nReginald Hawkins was born in Beaufort, NC in 1923. He served as captain in the US Army during World War II. After completing his time in the service he attended Howard University where he got his degree in dentistry in 1948. He also received his MA of Divinity from Johnson C Smith University in 1973. He married Catherine Richardson while he was still in dental school and they had four children.\n\nHawkins and members of the NAACP differed over the best way to end school desegregation. Kelly Alexander wanted to sue the city of Charlotte over civil injustice. Hawkins believed that a confrontational approach was best through utilizing media coverage to help mobilize citizens, arguing \"The only way to move forward is to engage bigots in direct controversy within their own community. In order to make his point about the only way to move forward, Hawkins escorted Dorthy Counts, a young black girl to Harding High School, a white school in Charlotte. On September 4, 1957 Hawkins and Counts walked through a shower of spit and insults to integrate the first Mecklenburg County School. His actions that day created a lot of stir in both the white and African- American neighborhoods,creating a national name for Hawkins. From then on Hawkins became a prominent civil rights activist in Charlotte. In 1961 Hawkins led a boycott of Irwin Avenue Junior High School. He urged African-American Students to stay home instead of attending a second rate educational institution.\n\nDue to his disagreement with NAACP policies and in an attempt to distance himself from their \"communist\" label, Hawkins resigned his membership in 1958 and created the Mecklenburg Organization for Political Affairs (MOPA). MOPA used community activists within the African -American community to call for desegregation. Members took part in marches, picketing, protests, boycotts, and sit-in's, usually near schools or hospitals in the Charlotte area.Hawkins work helped successfully integrate many restaurants downtown including those in Belk's and Ivey's department stores.\n\nIn 1962 Hawkins filed suit against the North Carolina Dental Society for discrimination due to the fact they would not let him practice at Charlotte Memorial Hospital. He frequently led demonstrations outside the Mercy, Charlotte Memorial , Presbyterian and Good Samaritan hospitals in the Charlotte area. These demonstrations usually attracted a lot of press and generated controversy in the medical community. Hawkins continued to protest by writing Attorney General Robert Kennedy claiming that the hospitals were breaking their nondiscrimination policy that was one of the conditions of them receiving federal funding. By the end of 1962 the Department of Health ordered Memorial to desegregate their maternity and dentistry wards. Hawkins continued to protest until 1963 when the hospital declared an open door policy for all patients.\n\nOn November 22, 1965 four bombs exploded across Charlotte in the span of about 15 minutes. Hawkins home was hit as well as the homes of Kelly Alexander Sr, president of the NAACP, Fred Alexander, first African American City Council man, and Julius Chambers, a civil rights lawyer. The bombings caught the attention of the local news and put Charlotte into the violent category that cities like Birmingham and Jackson had already been placed in. No one was ever arrested for the bombings even though there was a state wide man hunt and the FBI still holds an open file on the event. Many people believe the bombings were resistance to efforts of desegregation that all four men were part of.\n\nHe also helped organize the 1963 March on Washington and was a great friend to Martin Luther King Jr. King was originally scheduled to stop in Charlotte and speak at one of Hawkins campaign events, but changed his plans and went to Memphis instead, where he was assassinated only a few days later.\n\nIn 1968 Hawkins announced his campaign for governor of North Carolina. His political actions had earned him many friends but also many enemies. He lost the Democratic primary to Robert W. Scott in a three-way race, earning 18.52% of the vote; Scott went on to win the election. He ran again governor again in 1972 and lost in the Democratic primary, winning 8.16% of the vote in a six-way race; the winner of the primary, Skipper Bowles, lost in the general election to Republican candidate James Holshouser. Even though he did not win, Hawkins' campaigns were symbolically important, showing that African-Americans did have the ability to run for office and try to make political changes.\n\nThroughout his life Hawkins was an ardent supporter of equal rights and integration. He continued his work, giving speeches and calling for change right up until his death in 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "2657405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2657405", "title": "Relational frame theory", "text": "Relational frame theory\n\nRelational frame theory (RFT) is a psychological theory of human language. It was developed originally by Steven C. Hayes of University of Nevada, Reno and has been extended in research notably by Dermot Barnes-Holmes of Ghent University.\n\nRelational frame theory argues that the building block of human language and higher cognition is relating, i.e. the human ability to create bidirectional links between things. It can be contrasted with associative learning, which discusses how animals form links between stimuli in the form of the strength of associations in memory. However, relational frame theory argues that natural human language typically specifies not just the strength of a link between stimuli but also the type of relation as well as the dimension along which they are to be related. For example, a tennis ball is not just associated with an orange, but can be said to be the same shape, but a different colour and not edible. In the preceding sentence, 'same', 'different' and 'not' are cues in the environment that specify the type of relation between the stimuli, and 'shape', 'colour' and 'edible' specify the dimension along which each relation is to be made. Relational frame theory argues that while there are an arbitrary number of types of relations and number of dimensions along which stimuli can be related, the core unit of relating is an essential building block for much of what is commonly referred to as human language or higher cognition.\n\nSeveral hundred studies have explored many testable aspects and implications of the theory such as the emergence of specific frames in childhood, how individual frames can be combined to create verbally complex phenomena such as metaphors and analogies, and how the rigidity or automaticity of relating within certain domains is related to psychopathology. In attempting to describe a fundamental building block of human language and higher cognition, RFT explicitly states that its goal is to provide a general theory of psychology that can provide a bedrock for multiple domains and levels of analysis.\n\nRelational frame theory focuses on how humans learn language (i.e., communication) through interactions with the environment and is based on a philosophical approach referred to as functional contextualism.\n\nRFT is a behavioral account of language and higher cognition. In his 1957 book \"Verbal Behavior\", B.F. Skinner presented an interpretation of language. However, this account was intended to be an interpretation as opposed to an experimental research program, and researchers commonly acknowledge that the research products are somewhat limited in scope. For example, Skinner's behavioral interpretation of language has been useful in some aspects of language training in developmentally disabled children, but it has not led to a robust research program in the range of areas relevant to language and cognition, such as problem-solving, reasoning, metaphor, logic, and so on. RFT advocates are fairly bold in stating that their goal is an experimental behavioral research program in all such areas, and RFT research has indeed emerged in a large number of these areas, including grammar.\n\nIn a review of Skinner's book, linguist Noam Chomsky argued that the generativity of language shows that it cannot simply be learned, that there must be some innate \"language acquisition device\". Many have seen this review as a turning point, when cognitivism took the place of behaviorism as the mainstream in psychology. Behavior analysts generally viewed the criticism as somewhat off point, but it is undeniable that psychology turned its attention elsewhere and the review was very influential in helping to produce the rise of cognitive psychology.\n\nDespite the lack of attention from the mainstream, behavior analysis is alive and growing. Its application has been extended to areas such as language and cognitive training. Behavior analysis has long been extended as well to animal training, business and school settings, as well as hospitals and areas of research.\n\nRFT distinguishes itself from Skinner's work by identifying and defining a particular type of operant conditioning known as \"arbitrarily applicable derived relational responding\" (AADRR). In essence the theory argues that language is not associative but is learned and relational. For example, young children learn relations of coordination between names and objects; followed by relations of difference, opposition, before and after, so on. These are \"frames\" in the sense that once relating of that kind is learned, any event can be related in that way mutually and in combination with other relations, given a cue to do so. This is a learning process that to date appears to occur only in humans possessing a capacity for language: to date relational framing has not yet been shown unambiguously in non-human animals despite many attempts to do so. AADRR is theorized to be a pervasive influence on almost all aspects of human behavior. The theory represents an attempt to provide a more empirically progressive account of complex human behavior while preserving the naturalistic approach of behavior analysis.\n\nApproximately 300 studies have tested RFT ideas. Supportive data exists in the areas needed to show that an action is \"operant\" such as the importance of multiple examples in training derived relational responding, the role of context, and the importance of consequences. Derived relational responding has also been shown to alter other behavioral processes such as classical conditioning, an empirical result that RFT theorists point to in explaining why relational operants modify existing behavioristic interpretations of complex human behavior. Empirical advances have also been made by RFT researchers in the analysis and understanding of such topics as metaphor, perspective taking, and reasoning.\n\nProponents of RFT often indicate the failure to establish a vigorous experimental program in language and cognition as the key reason why behavior analysis fell out of the mainstream of psychology despite its many contributions, and argue that RFT might provide a way forward. The theory is still somewhat controversial within behavioral psychology, however. At the current time the controversy is not primarily empirical since RFT studies publish regularly in mainstream behavioral journals and few empirical studies have yet claimed to contradict RFT findings. Rather the controversy seems to revolve around whether RFT is a positive step forward, especially given that its implications seem to go beyond many existing interpretations and extensions from within this intellectual tradition.\n\nRFT has been argued to be central to the development of the psychotherapeutic tradition known as acceptance and commitment therapy and clinical behavior analysis more generally. Indeed, the psychologist Steven C Hayes was involved with the creation of both acceptance and commitment therapy and RFT, and has credited them as inspirations for one another. However, the extent and exact nature of the interaction between RFT as basic behavioral science and applications such as ACT has been an ongoing point of discussion within the field.\n\nRFT provides conceptual and procedural guidance for enhancing the cognitive and language development capability (through its detailed treatment and analysis of derived relational responding and the transformation of function) of early intensive behavior intervention (EIBI) programs for young children with autism and related disorders. The Promoting the Emergence of Advanced Knowledge (PEAK) Relational Training System is heavily influenced by RFT.\n\nMore recently, RFT has also been proposed as a way to guide discussion of language processes within evolution science, whether within evolutionary biology or evolutionary psychology, toward a more informed understanding of the role of language in shaping human social behavior. The effort at integrating RFT into evolution science has been led by, among others, Steven C. Hayes, a co-developer of RFT, and David Sloan Wilson, an evolutionary biologist at Binghamton University. For example, in 2011, Hayes presented at a seminar at Binghamton, on the topic of \"Symbolic Behavior, Behavioral Psychology, and the Clinical Importance of Evolution Science\", while Wilson likewise presented at a symposium at the annual conference in Parma, Italy, of the Association for Contextual Behavioral Science, the parent organization sponsoring RFT research, on the topic of \"Evolution for Everyone, Including Contextual Psychology\". Hayes, Wilson, and colleagues have recently linked RFT to the concept of a symbotype and an evolutionarily sensible way that relational framing could have developed has been described.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "732200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=732200", "title": "Selfishness", "text": "Selfishness\n\nSelfishness is being concerned excessively or exclusively, for oneself or one's own advantage, pleasure, or welfare, regardless of others.\n\nSelfishness is the opposite of altruism or selflessness; and has also been contrasted (as by C. S. Lewis) with self-centeredness.\n\nThe implications of selfishness have inspired divergent views within religious, philosophical, psychological, economic, and evolutionary contexts.\n\nAristotle joined a perceived majority of his countrymen in condemning those who sought only to profit themselves; but he approved the man of reason who sought to gain for himself the greatest share of that which deserved social praise.\n\nSeneca proposed a cultivation of the self within a wider community – a care for the self which he opposed to mere selfishness in a theme that would later be taken up by Foucault.\n\nSelfishness was viewed in the Western Christian tradition as a central vice – as standing at the roots of the Seven deadly sins in the form of pride.\n\nFrancis Bacon carried forward this tradition when he characterised “Wisdom for a man's self...[a]s the wisdom of rats”.\n\nWith the emergence of a commercial society, Bernard Mandeville proposed the paradox that social and economic advance depended on private vices – on what he called the sordidness of selfishness.\n\nAdam Smith with the concept of the invisible hand saw the economic system as usefully channelling selfish self-interest to wider ends; while John Locke based society upon the solitary individual, arguably opening the door for later thinkers like Ayn Rand to argue for selfishness as a social virtue and the root of social progress.\n\nRoman Catholic philosopher Jacques Maritain opposed the latter view by way of the Aristotelian argument that framing the fundamental question of politics as a choice between altruism and selfishness is a basic and harmful mistake of modern states. Rather, cooperation ought to be the norm: human beings are by nature social animals, and so individual persons can only find their full good in and through pursuing the good of the community.\n\nLack of empathy has been seen as one of the roots of selfishness, extending as far as the cold manipulation of the psychopath.\n\nThe contrast between self-affirmation and selfishness has become a conflictual arena in which the respective claims of individual/community are often played out between parents and children or men and women, for example.\n\nPsychoanalysts favor the development of a genuine sense of self, and may even speak of a healthy selfishness, as opposed to the self-occlusion of what Anna Freud called 'emotional surrender'.\n\nSelf-centeredness was marked as a key feature in a phenomenological theory of criminality named \"The Criminal Spin\" model. Accordingly, in most criminal behaviors there is an heightened state of self-centeredness, that differently manifests itself in different situations and in different forms of criminality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "327587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=327587", "title": "Synderesis", "text": "Synderesis\n\nSynderesis or synteresis, in scholastic moral philosophy, is the natural \"capacity\" or disposition (habitus) of the \"practical reason\" to apprehend intuitively the universal \"first principles\" of human \"action\".\n\nReason is a single faculty, but is called differently according to the end that it assigns to its search for truth; when its goal is the mere consideration (contemplation) of truth, it is called \"speculative reason\"; when it considers truth in view of action (praxis), it is called \"practical reason\". In both cases reason uses demonstration (syllogism) as its tool; it proceeds from the understanding of previously known truths (premises) to the statement of a proposition (conclusion) whose truth follows necessarily from the premises.\n\nHow does one know that those premises (and consequently their conclusion) are true? Because they are themselves conclusions of previous demonstrations. Although one could take back this process of demonstration of the truth of premises as far as we want, a regression ad infinitum would deprive the demonstrative chain of certitude. Consequently, it is necessary that the point of departure of human reasoning be some immediately knowable, i.e. self-evident, propositions called \"first principles\", whose truth is not, indeed cannot be grasped through demonstration, but only by intuition (noûs).\n\nThe habit or disposition that allows the speculative reason to apprehend intuitively the principles that preside over its discursive reasoning is called \"understanding of principles\" (intellectus principiorum). The principles of \"non contradiction\", of \"identity\" and of \"excluded middle\", all of which are ultimately based on the notion of \"being\", which is the first that our reason apprehends absolutely, are all examples of those principles.\n\nSimilarly, the capacity or disposition that allows the practical reason to apprehend intuitively the principles or laws that preside over its discursive reasoning regarding human action is called \"synderesis\". Just as \"being\" is the first notion apprehended absolutely, so also \"good\" is the first thing that is apprehended by the practical reason, since everything that acts does so for an end which possesses the quality of goodness. That is why the first principle or law of the practical reason is \"good is to be done and pursued, and evil is to be avoided\". Also the precepts of natural law can be considered object of synderesis insofar as all the things towards which the human being has a natural inclination are naturally apprehended by the intellect as good and therefore as objects to be pursued, and their opposites as evils to be avoided.\n\nSynderesis is the capacity not only to apprehend the first principles, but also to judge every step of the practical discourse in the light of those principles. But, as an intellectual disposition concerned with knowledge of the first principles of action, synderesis provides only the universal premise of the practical syllogism. Every human \"action\", however, is singular, contingent and takes place in particular circumstances. To complete the practical discourse and reach a conclusion regarding what has to be done \"hic et nunc\" [here and now] and what means are to be used, other capacities are necessary besides synderesis, and to actually effect the action other faculties are required besides reason. That is why the whole picture concerning human action includes powers, dispositions and acts such as conscience, desire, will, etc.\n\nThe origin of the notion of synderesis as presented here can be traced, on the one hand, to the Commentary on Ezechiel by Saint Jerome (A.D. 347–419), where \"syntéresin\" (συντήρησιν) is mentioned among the powers of the soul and is described as the spark of conscience (\"scintilla conscientiae\") and, on the other, to the interpretation of Jerome's text given, in the 13th century, by Albert the Great and Thomas Aquinas in the light of Aristotelian psychology and ethics. The word \"synderesis\" is by most scholars reckoned to be a corruption of the Greek word for shared knowledge or conscience, \"syneidêsis\" (), the corruption appearing in the medieval manuscripts of Jerome's Commentary.\n\nAn alternative interpretation of synderesis was proposed by Bonaventure, who considered it as the natural inclination of the \"will\" towards moral good.\n\nThe term is found applied in psychiatric studies too, with particular reference to psychopathy.\n\n"}
{"id": "287911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=287911", "title": "TRIZ", "text": "TRIZ\n\nTRIZ (; , ', literally: \"theory of the resolution of invention-related tasks\") is \"a problem-solving, analysis and forecasting tool derived from the study of patterns of invention in the global patent literature\". It was developed by the Soviet inventor and science-fiction author Genrich Altshuller (1926-1998) and his colleagues, beginning in 1946. In English the name is typically rendered as \"the theory of inventive problem solving\", and occasionally goes by the English acronym TIPS.\n\nFollowing Altshuller's insight, the theory developed on a foundation of extensive research covering hundreds of thousands of inventions across many different fields to produce a theory which defines generalisable patterns in the nature of inventive solutions and the distinguishing characteristics of the problems that these inventions have overcome.\n\nAn important part of the theory has been devoted to revealing patterns of evolution and one of the objectives which has been pursued by leading practitioners of TRIZ has been the development of an algorithmic approach to the invention of new systems, and to the refinement of existing ones.\n\nTRIZ includes a practical methodology, tool sets, a knowledge base, and model-based technology for generating innovative solutions for problem solving. It is useful for problem formulation, system analysis, failure analysis, and patterns of system evolution. There is a general similarity of purposes and methods with the field of pattern language, a cross discipline practice for explicitly describing and sharing holistic patterns of design.\n\nThe research has produced three primary findings:\n\nTRIZ practitioners apply all these findings in order to create and to improve products, services, and systems.\n\nTRIZ in its classical form was developed by the Soviet inventor and science fiction writer Genrich Altshuller and his associates.\nHe started developing TRIZ in 1946 while working in the \"Inventions Inspection\" department of the Caspian Sea flotilla of the Soviet Navy. His job was to help with the initiation of invention proposals, to rectify and document them, and to prepare applications to the patent office. During this time he realised that a problem requires an inventive solution if there is an unresolved contradiction in the sense that improving one parameter impacts negatively on another. He later called these \"technical contradictions\".\n\nHis work on what later resulted in TRIZ was interrupted in 1950 by his arrest and sentencing to 25 years in the Vorkuta Gulag labor camps. The arrest was partially triggered by letters which he and Raphael Shapiro sent to Stalin, ministers and newspapers about certain decisions made by the Soviet Government, which they believed were erroneous. Altshuller and Shapiro were freed during the Khrushchev Thaw following Stalin's death in 1953 and returned to Baku.\n\nThe first paper on TRIZ titled \"On the psychology of inventive creation\" was published in 1956 in \"Issues in Psychology\" (Voprosi Psichologii) journal.\n\nBy 1969, Altshuller had reviewed about 40,000 patent abstracts in order to find out in what way the innovation had taken place and developed the concept of technical contradictions, the concept of ideality of a system, contradiction matrix, and 40 principles of invention. In the years that followed he developed the concepts of physical contradictions, SuField analysis (structural substance-field analysis), standard solutions, several laws of technical systems evolution, and numerous other theoretical and practical approaches.\n\nAltshuller also observed clever and creative people at work: he uncovered patterns in their thinking, and developed thinking tools and techniques to model this \"talented thinking\". These tools include Smart Little People and Thinking in Time and Scale (or the Screens of Talented Thought).\n\nIn 1971 Altshuller convinced The Inventors Society to establish in Baku the first TRIZ teaching facility, called the Azerbaijan Public Institute for Inventive Creation and the first TRIZ research lab called The Public Lab for Inventive Creation. Altshuller was appointed the head of the lab by the society. The lab incubated the TRIZ movement and in the years that followed other TRIZ teaching institutes were established in all major cities of the USSR.\n\nFrom 1986 Altshuller switched his attention away from technical TRIZ, and started investigating the development of individual creativity. He also developed a version of TRIZ for children, which was trialled in various schools. In 1989 the TRIZ Association was formed, with Altshuller chosen as President.\n\nFollowing the end of the cold war, the waves of emigrants from the former Soviet Union brought TRIZ to other countries and drew attention to it overseas. In 1995 the Altshuller Institute for TRIZ Studies was established in Boston, USA.\n\nTRIZ presents a systematic approach for understanding and defining challenging problems: difficult problems require an inventive solution, and TRIZ provides a range of strategies and tools for finding these inventive solutions. One of the earliest findings of the massive research on which the theory is based is that the vast majority of problems that require inventive solutions typically reflect a need to overcome a dilemma or a trade-off between two contradictory elements. The central purpose of TRIZ-based analysis is to systematically apply the strategies and tools to find superior solutions that overcome the need for a compromise or trade-off between the two elements.\nBy the early 1970s two decades of research covering hundreds of thousands of patents had confirmed Altshuller's initial insight about the patterns of inventive solutions and one of the first analytical tools was published in the form of 40 inventive principles, which could account for virtually all of those patents that presented truly inventive solutions. Following this approach the \"Conceptual solution\" shown in the diagram can be found by defining the contradiction which needs to be resolved and systematically considering which of the 40 principles may be applied to provide a specific solution which will overcome the \"contradiction\" in the problem at hand, enabling a solution that is closer to the \"ultimate ideal result\".\nThe combination of all of these concepts together – the analysis of the contradiction, the pursuit of an ideal solution and the search for one or more of the principles which will overcome the contradiction, are the key elements in a process which is designed to help the inventor to engage in the process with purposefulness and focus.\n\nOne of the tools which evolved as an extension of the 40 principles was a contradiction matrix in which the contradictory elements of a problem were categorized according to a list of 39 factors which could impact on each other. The combination of each pairing of these 39 elements is set out in a matrix (for example, the weight of a stationary object, the use of energy by a moving object, the ease of repair etc.) Each of the 39 elements is represented down the rows and across the columns (as the negatively affected element) and based upon the research and analysis of patents: wherever precedent solutions have been found that resolve a conflict between two of the elements, the relevant cells in the matrix typically contain a sub-set of three or four principles that have been applied most frequently in inventive solutions which resolve contradictions between those two elements.\n\nThe main objective of the contradiction matrix was to simplify the process of selecting the most appropriate Principle to resolve a specific contradiction. It was the core of all modifications of ARIZ till 1973. But in 1973, after introducing the concept of physical contradictions and creating SuField analysis, Altshuller realized that the contradiction matrix was comparatively an inefficient tool and stopped working on it. Beginning ARIZ-71c contradiction matrix ceased to be the core of ARIZ and therefore was not a tool for solving inventive problems that Altshuller believed should be pursued.\n\nPhysical contradictions and separation principles as well as SuField analysis, etc. became the core. Despite this, the 40 principles of invention has remained the most popular tool taught in introductory seminars and has consistently attracted the most attention amongst the tens of thousands of individuals who visit TRIZ-focused web sites in a typical month. Therefore, many of those who learn TRIZ or have attended seminars are taught quite wrongly that TRIZ is primarily composed of the 40 principles and contradiction matrix, the truth is ARIZ is the core methodology of TRIZ.\n\nARIZ is an algorithmic approach to finding inventive solutions by identifying and resolving contradictions. This includes the \"system of inventive standards solutions\" which Altshuller used to replace the 40 principles and contradiction matrix, it consists of SuField modeling and the 76 inventive standards. A number of TRIZ-based computer programs have been developed whose purpose is to provide assistance to engineers and inventors in finding inventive solutions for technological problems. Some of these programs are also designed to apply another TRIZ methodology whose purpose is to reveal and forecast emergency situations and to anticipate circumstances which could result in undesirable outcomes.\n\nOne of the important branches of TRIZ is focused on analysing and predicting trends of evolution in the characteristics that existing solutions are likely to develop in successive generations of a system.\n\n\nAltshuller has shown that at the heart of some inventive problems lie contradictions (one of the basic TRIZ concepts) between two or more elements, such as, \"If we want more acceleration, we need a larger engine; but that will increase the cost of the car,\" that is, more of something desirable also brings more of something less desirable, or less of something else also desirable.\n\nThese are called \"technical contradictions\" by Altshuller. He also defined so-called physical or inherent contradictions: More of one thing and less of the same thing may both be desired in the same system. For instance, a higher temperature may be needed to melt a compound more rapidly, but a lower temperature may be needed to achieve a homogeneous mixture.\n\nAn \"inventive situation\" which challenges us to be inventive, might involve several such contradictions. Conventional solutions typically \"trade\" one contradictory parameter for another; no special inventiveness is needed for that. Rather, the inventor would develop a creative approach for resolving the contradiction, such as inventing an engine that produces more acceleration without increasing the cost of the engine.\n\nAltshuller screened patents in order to find out what kind of contradictions were resolved or dissolved by the invention and the way this had been achieved. From this he developed a set of 40 inventive principles and later a matrix of contradictions. Rows of the matrix indicate the 39 system features that one typically wants to improve, such as speed, weight, accuracy of measurement and so on. Columns refer to typical undesired results. Each matrix cell points to principles that have been most frequently used in patents in order to resolve the contradiction.\n\nFor instance, Dolgashev mentions the following contradiction: increasing accuracy of measurement of machined balls while avoiding the use of expensive microscopes and elaborate control equipment. The matrix cell in row \"accuracy of measurement\" and column \"complexity of control\" points to several principles, among them the Copying Principle, which states, \"Use a simple and inexpensive optical copy with a suitable scale instead of an object that is complex, expensive, fragile or inconvenient to operate.\" From this general invention principle, the following idea might solve the problem: Taking a high-resolution image of the machined ball. A screen with a grid might provide the required measurement. As mentioned above, Altshuller abandoned this method of defining and solving \"technical\" contradictions in the mid 1980s and instead used SuField modeling and the 76 inventive standards and a number of other tools included in the algorithm for solving inventive problems, ARIZ.\n\nAltshuller also studied the way technical systems have been developed and improved over time. From this, he discovered several trends (so called Laws of Technical Systems Evolution) that help engineers predict the most likely improvements that can be made to a given product. The most important of these laws involves the ideality of a system.\n\nOne more technique that is frequently used by inventors involves the analysis of substances, fields and other resources that are currently not being used and that can be found within the system or nearby. TRIZ uses non-standard definitions for substances and fields. Altshuller developed methods to analyze resources; several of his invention principles involve the use of different substances and fields that help resolve contradictions and increase ideality of a technical system. For instance, videotext systems used television signals to transfer data, by taking advantage of the small time segments between TV frames in the signals.\n\nSuField analysis produces a structural model of the initial technological system, exposes its characteristics, and with the help of special laws, transforms the model of the problem. Through this transformation the structure of the solution that eliminates the shortcomings of the initial problem is revealed. SuField analysis is a special language of formulas with which it is possible to easily describe any technological system in terms of a specific (structural) model. A model produced in this manner is transformed according to special laws and regularities, thereby revealing the structural solution of the problem.\n\nARIZ (Russian acronym of алгоритм решения изобретательских задач - АРИЗ) (algorithm of inventive problems solving) is a list of about 85 step-by-step procedures to solve complicated invention problems, where other tools of TRIZ alone (Sufield analysis, 40 inventive principles, etc.) are not sufficient.\n\nVarious TRIZ software (see Invention Machine's Goldfire, ideation international, Guided Innovation Toolkit, TriSolver, Innovation Suite, TRIZ GB) are based on this algorithm.\n\nStarting with an updated matrix of contradictions, semantic analysis, subcategories of inventive principles and lists of scientific effects, some new interactive applications are other attempts to simplify the problem formulation phase and the transition from a generic problem to a whole set of specific solutions. (See the external links for details.)\n\nAlthough TRIZ was developed from the analysis of technical systems, it has been used widely as a method for understanding and solving complex management problems. Examples include finding additional cost savings for the legal department of a local government body: the inventive solution generated was to generate additional revenue [insert reference to cost-cutting in local government case study]. The results of the TRIZ work are expected to generate £1.7 m in profit in the first 5 years. \n\nCase studies on the use of TRIZ are difficult to acquire as many companies believe TRIZ gives them a competitive advantage and are reluctant to publicise their adoption of the method. However some examples are available: Samsung is the most famous success story, and has invested heavily in embedding TRIZ use throughout the company, right up to and including the CEO; \"In 2003 TRIZ led to 50 new patents for Samsung and in 2004 one project alone, a DVD pick-up innovation, saved Samsung over $100 million. TRIZ is now an obligatory skill set if you want to advance within Samsung\". \n\nRolls-Royce, BAE Systems and GE are all documented users of TRIZ TRIZ is a Whizz article; Mars has documented how applying TRIZ led to a new patent for chocolate packaging.\n\nTRIZ has also been used successfully by Leafield Engineering, Smart Stabilizer Systems and Buro Happold to solve problems and generate new patents.\nVarious promoters of TRIZ reported that car companies Rolls-Royce, Ford, and Daimler-Chrysler, Johnson & Johnson, aeronautics companies Boeing, NASA, technology companies Hewlett Packard, Motorola, General Electric, Xerox, IBM, LG, Samsung, Intel, Procter and Gamble, Expedia and Kodak have used TRIZ methods in some projects.<br>\nThe application of TRIZ tools in numerous German industrial companies in the recent decade has followed the principles of the Advanced Innovation Design Approach, which recommends application of the selected TRIZ tools in the early stage of the innovation process for the identification of customer needs, comprehensive problem definition and ideation, new concept development and optimization.\n\nThe European TRIZ Association ETRIA is an nonprofit association based in Germany, founded in 2000. ETRIA considers itself an open community to unite the efforts, suggest opportunities for global standardization, conduct further research and development, and provide mechanisms for the exchange of information and knowledge on TRIZ and TRIZ-based innovation technologies.\n\nETRIA is developing a web-based collaborative environment targeting the creation of links between any and all institutions concerned with conceptual questions pertaining to the creation, organization, and efficient processing of innovation knowledge and innovation technologies.\n\nTRIZ is considered as a cross-disciplinary, generic methodology, but it has not previously been presented in terms of logic or any other formal knowledge representation. Most of the concepts introduced in TRIZ are fuzzy, and most of the techniques are still heuristic and only partially formalized. For further development and conceptual re-organization of the TRIZ knowledge base, ETRIA involves and collaborates with TRIZ experts and professionals from the domains of logic, organization science, informatics and linguistics.\n\nThe Association holds conferences with associated publications.\n\nETRIA has the following goals:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8120627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8120627", "title": "Tetrapharmakos", "text": "Tetrapharmakos\n\nThe Tetrapharmakos () \"four-part remedy\" is a summary of the first four of the Κύριαι Δόξαι (\"Kuriai Doxai\", the forty Epicurean \"Principal Doctrines\" given by Diogenes Laertius in his \"Life of Epicurus\") in Epicureanism, a recipe for leading the happiest possible life. \nThey are recommendations to avoid anxiety or existential dread.\n\nThe \"tetrapharmakos\" was originally a compound of four drugs (wax, tallow, pitch and resin); the word has been used metaphorically by Roman-era Epicureans. to refer to the four remedies for healing the soul.\n\nAs expressed by Philodemos, and preserved in a Herculaneum Papyrus (1005, 4.9–14), the \"tetrapharmakos\" reads:\n\nThis is a summary of the first four of the forty Epicurean \"Principal Doctrines\" (\"Sovran Maxims\") given by Diogenes Laertius, which in the by Robert Drew Hicks (1925) read as follows:\n\nIn Hellenistic religion, the gods were conceived as hypothetical beings in a perpetual state of bliss, indestructible entities that are completely invulnerable. Gods in this view are mere role models for human beings, who are to \"emulate the happiness of the gods, within the limits imposed by human nature.\"\n\nAs D. S. Hutchinson wrote concerning this line, \"While you are alive, you don't have to deal with being dead, but when you are dead you don't have to deal with it either, because you aren't there to deal with it.\" In Epicurus' own words, \"Death means nothing to us...when we exist, death is not yet present, and when death is present, then we do not exist,\" for there is no afterlife. Death, says Epicurus, is the greatest anxiety of all, in length and intensity. This anxiety about death impedes the quality and happiness of one's life by the theory of afterlife: the worrying about whether or not one's deeds and actions in life will translate well into the region of the gods, the wondering whether one will be assigned to an eternity of pain or to an eternity of pleasure.\n\nSustenance and shelter, these things can be acquired by anyone — by both animal and human — with minimal effort, regardless of wealth. But if one wants more than one needs (over indulgency, gluttony, etc.), one is limiting the chances of satisfaction and happiness, and therefore creating a “needless anxiety” in one’s life. \"What is good is easy to get\" implies that the minimum amount of necessity it takes to satisfy an urge is the maximum amount of interest a person should have in satisfying that urge.\n\nThe Epicureans understood that, in nature, illness and pain is not suffered for very long, for pain and suffering is either \"brief or chronic ... either mild or intense, but discomfort that is both chronic and intense is very unusual; so there is no need to be concerned about the prospect of suffering.\" Like \"What is good is easy to get,\" recognizing one's physical and mental limit and one's threshold of pain — understanding how much pain the body or mind can endure — and maintaining confidence that pleasure only follows pain (and the avoidance of anxiety about the length of pain), is the remedy against prolonged suffering.\n"}
{"id": "32863360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32863360", "title": "Texture advection", "text": "Texture advection\n\nIn scientific visualization, texture advection is a family of methods to densely visualize vector fields or flows (like the wind movement of a tornado). Scientists can use the created images and animations to better understand these flows and reason about them. \nIn comparison to techniques that visualise streamlines, streaklines, or timelines, methods of this family don't need any seed points and can produce a whole image at every step.\n\nThe methods have in common that they bend a whole image (or texture) according to the flow to create a new image that is warped by the flow. If that is done in small enough time steps and often enough, the images can be combined to create an animation visualising the flow.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12975116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12975116", "title": "Tom Gamboa", "text": "Tom Gamboa\n\nThomas Harold Gamboa (born February 28, 1948) is the former manager of the Brooklyn Cyclones.\n\nGamboa has managed in the minor leagues as high as AAA (the Toledo Mud Hens in the International League and the Albuquerque Dukes in the Pacific Coast League), and coached first and third base as well as in the bullpen for major league teams (the Chicago Cubs and Kansas City Royals). In September 2016, Gamboa was the bench coach for Israel at the 2017 World Baseball Classic qualifier, and he continued in the same role for Team Israel at the 2017 World Baseball Classic main tournament in South Korea and Japan.\n\nGamboa was born in Los Angeles, California, and now lives in Rancho Mirage, California. He was raised by his mother, Polly, and his step-father (whose surname he took), Jack Donald Gamboa. Gamboa is fluent in Spanish. He has five children. His son Brett is an assistant professor of English at Dartmouth College. \n\nHe was drafted out of Notre Dame High School in Sherman Oaks, California, where he was a first baseman, by the Baltimore Orioles, but instead attended the University of California, Santa Barbara (B.A., History, 1971) on a full scholarship. There, he played primarily center field, along with a little first base, for the Gauchos baseball team for three years and won All-Big West Conference honors in 1969 and 1970.\n\nDuring the 1971–1972 seasons Gamboa was an outfielder for and manager of Stratford (Ontario) in the Canadian Baseball League, where he was a two-time All-Star.\n\nGamboa was a manager, minor league instructor, and scouting supervisor in the Milwaukee Brewers organization from 1978–1982. In 1979, at the age of 31, he managed the Butte Copper Kings in the Rookie Pioneer League. In 1983 he managed the Paintsville Brewers in the Rookie Appalachian League to a league-leading .653 won-loss percentage, and the league title. In 1984 he managed the Beloit Brewers in the Class A Midwest League to a Central Division-leading .619 won-lost percentage, and was voted Manager of the Year. In 1985 he managed the Stockton Ports in the Class A California League to a North Division-leading .566 won-loss percentage, and the Division championship.\n\nIn 1986 he managed the Bristol Tigers in the Appalachian League and served as the Detroit Tigers western states scouting director, and in 1987 he managed the Glens Falls Tigers in the AA Eastern League; both, affiliates of the Detroit Tigers. He was the minor league field coordinator for the Detroit Tigers from 1987–1990. He managed the Toledo Mud Hens in the AAA International League for the Detroit Tigers in 1990. He was the Director of Minor League Instruction for the San Diego Padres from 1991-94. He was the Chicago Cubs' Minor League Field Coordinator from 1995–1998.\n\nIn 2000, he managed the Dodgers' Albuquerque Dukes of the AAA Pacific Coast League to a Central Division-leading .597 won-lost percentage and title.\n\nIn 2005, he managed the Arkansas Travelers of the AA Texas League to the Texas League Eastern Division title for the Los Angeles Angels. In 2006 and 2007, he was Minor League Outfield/Baserunning Coordinator for the San Diego Padres. In 2009, he was the minor league field coordinator for the Padres.\n\nIn 2011, he managed the Inland Empire 66ers of the Class A+ California League (through June, when he resigned to spend time with his 85-year-old mother, who was terminally ill with advanced cancer), an affiliate of the Los Angeles Angels. That year he also played \"Scout Martinez\" in the Oscar-nominated 2011 baseball movie \"Moneyball\".\n\nDuring the 2012 California Winter League (Palm Springs, California), Gamboa served as the Field Coordinator.\n\nFrom 2014 to 2016, he managed the Brooklyn Cyclones of the Short-Season A New York-Pennsylvania League, an affiliate of the New York Mets.\n\nFrom 1973-1975 he was a scout for the Baltimore Orioles, and from 1976–1977 he was a scout for the Major League Baseball Scouting Bureau.\n\nHe was the Chicago Cubs' first base and third base coach in 1998–1999.\n\nGamboa was a Major League coach for the Kansas City Royals from 2001–2003, serving as the bullpen coach in 2001 and 2003 and the team's first base coach in 2002. While he was the Royals first base coach, he was attacked on the field at Comiskey Park by two fans during a game against the Chicago White Sox on September 19, 2002. Gamboa suffered permanent hearing loss in his right ear.\n\nGamboa managed the Indios de Mayagüez in Puerto Rico's Liga de Béisbol Profesional Roberto Clemente in seven winter league seasons from 1995–96 through 2002–03, reaching the finals in six seasons and winning three championships, managed in six Puerto Rican League All-Star games, and was named Manager of the Year following the 1995–96 and 1996-97 seasons. In 2002, he was inducted into the Association of Major League Legends of Latin America.\n\nGamboa managed Naranjeros de Hermosillo in the Liga Mexicana del Pacífico winter league in 2004.\n\nIn September 2016, Gamboa was the bench coach for Israel at the 2017 World Baseball Classic qualifier. In an interview, he said he was serving as a Coach, due to his longtime friendship with Manager Jerry Weinstein, and his knowledge of MCU Park (where the Qualifier was being played) even though he wasn't Jewish. He continued in a similar role for Team Israel at the 2017 World Baseball Classic main tournament in South Korea and Japan. During those games, Gamboa served as 3B coach as well.\n\nIn 2010, he managed the Palm Springs Power of the Southern California Collegiate Baseball League to a 34-4 mark, the best in team history.\n\nIn 2018, he and David Russell co-wrote the autobiography \"Tom Gamboa: My Life In Baseball\" (McFarland), which sports columnist Mike Vaccaro of \"The New York Post\" described as \"a fun read,\" and Lloyd Carroll of \"NY Sports Day\" described as \"a fascinating look at a baseball professional who has spent as most of his life beating the bushes of baseball’s minor leagues.\" The book’s forward is written by baseball player Doug Glanville.\n\n"}
{"id": "2679889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2679889", "title": "Topogravitic tensor", "text": "Topogravitic tensor\n\nIn general relativity, the topogravitic tensor is one of the three pieces of the Bel decomposition of the Riemann tensor.\n\nThe topogravitic tensor can be interpreted as representing the sectional curvatures for the spatial part of a frame field.\n"}
{"id": "24480974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24480974", "title": "Yun Chi-ho", "text": "Yun Chi-ho\n\nYun Chi-ho (Korean: 윤치호, hanja: 尹致昊, 1864 – 1945) was an important political activist and thinker during the late 1800s and early 1900s in Joseon Korea. His penname was Jwa-ong (좌옹, 佐翁); his courtesy name was Sungheum (성흠;聖欽), Sungheum (성흠;成欽). a member of Korean early NGO's Independence Club (독립협회;獨立協會) and People's joint association (만민공동회;萬民共同會), Shinminhwae (신민회;新民會). He was a strong nationalist especially in his early years; pushing for reform and modernization in the Joseon government. He was involved in important organizations such as the Independence Club led by Seo Jae-pil. He also served in various government positions and was a strong supporter of Christianity in Korea.\n\nAlthough Yun's early years were filled with strong support of patriotic and nationalist movements, there seemed to have been a change in Yun’s approach to Korean independence in the wake of the Japanese dominance in Korea, starting with Korea becoming a protectorate of Japan in 1904, and then fully annexed into the Japanese Empire in 1910. Because of Yun’s apparent change in attitude toward Korean independence and his lack of support of nationalist movements, like the 1919 Samil Movement, many Koreans today see him as a collaborator with the Japanese.\n\nYun Chi-ho was a member of one of the prominent \"yangban\" families of Korea. Son of General Yun Ung-nyeol, who served as a minister in the Joseon government. he attended Vanderbilt University in Tennessee before transferring to Emory University in Georgia. He was also an early leader of the Korean YMCA and a South Korean Methodist.\n\nYun Chi-ho was born on December 26, 1864 in a small village in Dunpo-myeon, Asan, Chungcheong Province. His father, Yun Ung-yeol, was an official in the Joseon government and as a member of the yangban aristocracy saw that Chi-ho received a proper education. Yun Chi-ho excelled in his studies of the Confucian classics at the local seodang and even tried to apply to take the civil-service exams (gwageo) at age twelve.\n\nYun's family was one of Joseon dynasty's most illustrious noble families; his 9G-Great grandfather Yun Doo-su (윤두수;尹斗壽) was Yeonguijeong under King Seonjo. But his father Yun Ung-ryeol was an illegitimate son of his grandfather Yun Chui-dong (윤취동;尹取東).\n\nFrom 1871 to 1878, Yun studied Confucianism at Chang's private village school.\n\nBecause of Yun Ung-yeol’s position in the government, he was able to arrange for Yun Chi-ho’s participation in a delegation of representatives from Korea to observe the process of modernization in Japan in 1881. Yun was only sixteen years old at the time, but this experience greatly influenced his thoughts on modernization and opened his eyes to world beyond the isolated “Hermit Kingdom” that Korea had become. He frequently compared the lack of progress in Joseon Korea to the rapid modernization of Japan and often lamented in his diaries that he wanted nothing more than for Korea to become the kind of advanced, modern nation that Japan had become.\n\nYun would later travel to Shanghai, China in 1885 where he would attend the Anglo-Chinese College studying English and mathematics, among other things. While in Shanghai he also converted to Christianity, something that would play a major role throughout the rest of his life. Yun Chi-ho viewed Christianity as a strong progressive philosophy that could help Korea catch up with the advancements of Japan and the West.\n\nHe eventually even studied in America, starting in 1888 at Vanderbilt University and then Emory University. He strongly admired many aspects of American culture, but was also frustrated with the racial prejudices he experienced while living in the South. In particular, he would identify tensions and contradictions between Christian universalism, and the belief that any individual could earn respect and equality as long as they were pious, and the arbitrary demonstrations of white supremacy that he routinely witnessed and experienced. While in America he studied English, theology and speech and he gained a great deal of proficiency in the English language; writing most of his diaries in English.\n\nYun served in several important government positions throughout his life. He served as an interpreter for the first American Foreign Minister in Korea, Lucius Foote. Upon arriving in Korea Foote had inquired to the Japanese Foreign Minister Inoue Kaoru about finding someone to interpret for him while in Seoul, and Minister Inoue, who knew Yun Chi-ho from his days in Japan, recommended Yun to help serve Minister Foote. It was also Foote who helped Yun with arranging his studies in Shanghai.\n\nYun also served as the Vice President of the Privy Council of the Joseon Court from 1898 until he was banished in 1899 due to pressure from opposing factions in the government. While banished to the countryside, Yun served as magistrate for a town called Wonsan in Northern Korea. His banishment was not long lived and in 1903 he was called to serve as the Vice Foreign Minister.\n\nWhen Yun arrived back in Korea from his studies abroad, there were small groups of scholars who were beginning to call for social and political reform in Korea. One such group was the Independence club, which Yun began to participate in. Among other things, the club promoted educating the Korean people on their unique history, promoted the use of Hangeul, the Korean vernacular alphabet, and pushed for government reform. While in the Independence Club Yun called for the government to be more representative of its people and even supported the elevation of King Kojong to the title of Gwangmu Emperor. Eventually the group was met with pressure from opposing factions in the government that believed the club was gaining too much influence and so in 1899, the club disbanded.\n\nAs Japanese influence on the Korean peninsula began to tighten, Yun also began to support groups that were part of the Enlightenment movement. These groups, such as the Korean Self-Strengthening Society and the New People’s Society, were picking up the pieces where the independence club had left off, and Yun Chi-ho helped them out by giving speeches and writing pamphlets for them. During his time of Banishment, these groups gave Yun something to work for in the hopes of creating a stronger Korean society.\n\nFrom his early years, he was disappointed in the Joseon people for always having an emotional response and frustrated in their irrationality.\nIn January 1910, he participated in the World Missionary Conference in America and that May, he attended to Edinburgh World Missionary Conference in England. In December 1910, he returned to his country.\n\nWhen the Korean Empire was overrun by Japanese military forces in 1910 (see Japan-Korea Treaty of 1910), Yun Chi-ho joined with others in resisting Japanese occupation. He became an anti-Imperialist speaker and independence activist. In 1911, he was Judgment for alleged assassination of the Governor General of Korea. He suffered from malicious punishment and torture as a result of the 105-Man Incident.\n\nIn 1913, along with 104 others, he was charged with conspiracy against the Japanese Governor-General at the time, Count Terauchi. He was one of six who were convicted and sentenced to long prison terms. His experiences in prison tempered his willingness to express his nationalist ardor, but he was still considered active in the independence movement.\n\nIn 1911 Yun was implicated in assisting with an assassination attempt on Japanese governor-general, Terauchi Masatake. Sources from within some of the Enlightenment Movement groups that Yun had taken part in had informed Japanese officials that he had a hand in planning this attempted assassination. He was put on trial and given the maximum sentence. However, after a series of retrials his sentence was shortened and he eventually gained amnesty after only six years in jail. During this time, he didn’t write down anything in his diaries, but his experience in the Japanese prison system seemed to have a significant effect on his actions after his release. In fact, his release can be seen as a turning point for Yun Chi-ho where he began to make many pro-Japanese statements and gives much less support to Korean nationalistic movements.\n\nInspired by Woodrow Wilson’s idea of “self-determination” presented at the Paris Peace Conference the previous year, on March 1, 1919 many Koreans took to the streets in a peaceful protest to demonstrate that Korea was ready for independence from Japan. Yun knew that the European nations would not take this demonstration seriously. Yun said the following about the movement:\n“He who buys a field and keeps it from falling into irredeemable hands is a wiser patriot than he who sells his lands to finance the independent movement. He who sends a poor boy to school to become more intelligent than his fathers is doing a greater service than he who stirs up students for political agitations. He who leads an erring man into decent religious life is serving the Korean race better than he who sends ignorant folks to jail for yelling ‘mansei.’ Now is the time for Koreans to learn and wait.”\n\nYun’s reversal in opinion took an even larger turn from his previous nationalistic rhetoric when he began supporting the Japanese war efforts during WWII. He urged the young men of Korea to help the Japanese to victory by assisting in the war effort. He celebrated as the Japanese pushed Western imperialist powers out of Asia. According to Yun the Korean people’s part in the Japanese Empire them opportunity and access to education and resources they previously never had. Yun said, “The intellectuals of Korea today all realize that destiny of the Korean people can be promoted by becoming one with the Japanese people and that Manchuria and North China have opened up a field for the development of the Korean people never before dreamed of.”\n\nIn 1936, outbreak of 'case of Suyang club'. he was all related person personal reference, release. that thim, he was endeavor of Ahn Chang-ho's acquittal, also Ahn Chang-ho's file a petition. but refused of Japanese Government-General of Korea. In 1938, outbreak of 'case of Heungeup club'. he was all related person personal reference and release. the Japanese colonial era, he was strongly deny to Japanese rule, he was more Japanese government and Governor-general auspices event. In 1940, he was come to book for reason of event absent from Japanese Government-General of Korea.\n\nIn 1939, Japanese Government-General of Koreas ordered Japanese Sōshi-kaimei. Yun was going to propose postponement of the order, because of Korean national sentiment. Japanese Government-General of Korea for that's acceptable, Japanese Government-General of Korea was next years postpones. In May 1940, his family was Japanese Government-General of Korea conference for Sōshi-kaimei decision. his family name for Ito(이토;伊東). also coercive distraint Sōshi-kaimei for him, Ito Chikho.\nlater 1910 Japan–Korea Treaty of 1910s, meanwhile he was non-attendance and boycott for Japanese event and more official function, memorial day. In 1940s he was finally come to book for Japanese Government-General of Korea. also he was surveillance, internally investigated. In 1943 he was appoint to advisor of Japanese Government-General of Koreas Privy Council(중추원;中樞院), they enforced to their demands.\n\nIn 1945, He was elected to the House of Councillors of Imperial Japan (貴族院議員). However, Korea achieved independence from Japanese occupation by the Surrender of Japan, he was criticized of some unspecified peoples. because late Japanese colonial rule time, he was Japanese cooperation. he was opprobrium to emotional popular, he refutation also arguments.\n\nIn October 1945, he sent two letters 'An OldMan's Ruminations' by John Hadge and Syngman Rhee, Kim Gu. He did not receive a response. In November 1945, he returned to Korea, and died GoryeoJeong in Kaesong in December. (It is alleged by some that he committed suicide, although there is no evidence to support this.) his aged 80.\n\nYun Chi-ho was the uncle of Yun Bo-seon, who was President of South Korea in 1960 and Yun Il-seon, a first Korean pathologist and anatomist.\n\n\n\n"}
